
1. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):362-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07667. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

The DNA-encoded nucleosome organization of a eukaryotic genome.

Kaplan N(1), Moore IK, Fondufe-Mittendorf Y, Gossett AJ, Tillo D, Field Y,
LeProust EM, Hughes TR, Lieb JD, Widom J, Segal E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

Nucleosome organization is critical for gene regulation. In living cells this
organization is determined by multiple factors, including the action of chromatin
remodellers, competition with site-specific DNA-binding proteins, and the DNA
sequence preferences of the nucleosomes themselves. However, it has been
difficult to estimate the relative importance of each of these mechanisms in
vivo, because in vivo nucleosome maps reflect the combined action of all
influencing factors. Here we determine the importance of nucleosome DNA sequence 
preferences experimentally by measuring the genome-wide occupancy of nucleosomes 
assembled on purified yeast genomic DNA. The resulting map, in which nucleosome
occupancy is governed only by the intrinsic sequence preferences of nucleosomes, 
is similar to in vivo nucleosome maps generated in three different growth
conditions. In vitro, nucleosome depletion is evident at many transcription
factor binding sites and around gene start and end sites, indicating that
nucleosome depletion at these sites in vivo is partly encoded in the genome. We
confirm these results with a micrococcal nuclease-independent experiment that
measures the relative affinity of nucleosomes for approximately 40,000
double-stranded 150-base-pair oligonucleotides. Using our in vitro data, we
devise a computational model of nucleosome sequence preferences that is
significantly correlated with in vivo nucleosome occupancy in Caenorhabditis
elegans. Our results indicate that the intrinsic DNA sequence preferences of
nucleosomes have a central role in determining the organization of nucleosomes in
vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07667 
PMCID: PMC2658732
PMID: 19092803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):206-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07662. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Enhancing SIV-specific immunity in vivo by PD-1 blockade.

Velu V(1), Titanji K, Zhu B, Husain S, Pladevega A, Lai L, Vanderford TH,
Chennareddi L, Silvestri G, Freeman GJ, Ahmed R, Amara RR.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30322, USA.

Comment in
    Immunotherapy. 2009 Jul;1(4):525-7.

Chronic immunodeficiency virus infections are characterized by dysfunctional
cellular and humoral antiviral immune responses. As such, immune modulatory
therapies that enhance and/or restore the function of virus-specific immunity may
protect from disease progression. Here we investigate the safety and immune
restoration potential of blockade of the co-inhibitory receptor programmed death 
1 (PD-1) during chronic simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in
macaques. We demonstrate that PD-1 blockade using an antibody to PD-1 is well
tolerated and results in rapid expansion of virus-specific CD8 T cells with
improved functional quality. This enhanced T-cell immunity was seen in the blood 
and also in the gut, a major reservoir of SIV infection. PD-1 blockade also
resulted in proliferation of memory B cells and increases in SIV
envelope-specific antibody. These improved immune responses were associated with 
significant reductions in plasma viral load and also prolonged the survival of
SIV-infected macaques. Blockade was effective during the early (week 10) as well 
as late ( approximately week 90) phases of chronic infection even under
conditions of severe lymphopenia. These results demonstrate enhancement of both
cellular and humoral immune responses during a pathogenic immunodeficiency virus 
infection by blocking a single inhibitory pathway and identify a novel
therapeutic approach for control of human immunodeficiency virus infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07662 
PMCID: PMC2753387
PMID: 19078956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):92-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07613. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Casein kinase 1alpha governs antigen-receptor-induced NF-kappaB activation and
human lymphoma cell survival.

Bidère N(1), Ngo VN, Lee J, Collins C, Zheng L, Wan F, Davis RE, Lenz G, Anderson
DE, Arnoult D, Vazquez A, Sakai K, Zhang J, Meng Z, Veenstra TD, Staudt LM,
Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Development Section, Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

The transcription factor NF-kappaB is required for lymphocyte activation and
proliferation as well as the survival of certain lymphoma types. Antigen receptor
stimulation assembles an NF-kappaB activating platform containing the scaffold
protein CARMA1 (also called CARD11), the adaptor BCL10 and the paracaspase MALT1 
(the CBM complex), linked to the inhibitor of NF-kappaB kinase complex, but
signal transduction is not fully understood. We conducted parallel screens
involving a mass spectrometry analysis of CARMA1 binding partners and an RNA
interference screen for growth inhibition of the CBM-dependent 'activated
B-cell-like' (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Here we
report that both screens identified casein kinase 1alpha (CK1alpha) as a
bifunctional regulator of NF-kappaB. CK1alpha dynamically associates with the CBM
complex on T-cell-receptor (TCR) engagement to participate in cytokine production
and lymphocyte proliferation. However, CK1alpha kinase activity has a contrasting
role by subsequently promoting the phosphorylation and inactivation of CARMA1.
CK1alpha has thus a dual 'gating' function which first promotes and then
terminates receptor-induced NF-kappaB. ABC DLBCL cells required CK1alpha for
constitutive NF-kappaB activity, indicating that CK1alpha functions as a
conditionally essential malignancy gene-a member of a new class of potential
cancer therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07613 
PMCID: PMC2688735
PMID: 19118383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07615. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

Sleep and sensorimotor integration during early vocal learning in a songbird.

Shank SS(1), Margoliash D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Behavioural studies widely implicate sleep in memory consolidation in the
learning of a broad range of behaviours. During sleep, brain regions are
reactivated, and specific patterns of neural activity are replayed, consistent
with patterns observed in previous waking behaviour. Birdsong learning is a
paradigmatic model system for skill learning. Song development in juvenile zebra 
finches (Taeniopygia guttata) is characterized by sleep-dependent circadian
fluctuations in singing behaviour, with immediate post-sleep deterioration in
song structure followed by recovery later in the day. In sleeping adult birds,
spontaneous bursting activity of forebrain premotor neurons in the robust nucleus
of the arcopallium (RA) carries information about daytime singing. Here we show
that, in juvenile zebra finches, playback during the day of an adult 'tutor' song
induced profound and tutor-song-specific changes in bursting activity of RA
neurons during the following night of sleep. The night-time neuronal changes
preceded tutor-song-induced changes in singing, first observed the following day.
Interruption of auditory feedback greatly reduced sleep bursting and prevented
the tutor-song-specific neuronal remodelling. Thus, night-time neuronal activity 
is shaped by the interaction of the song model (sensory template) and auditory
feedback, with changes in night-time activity preceding the onset of practice
associated with vocal learning. We hypothesize that night-time bursting induces
adaptive changes in premotor networks during sleep as part of vocal learning. By 
this hypothesis, adaptive changes driven by replay of sensory information at
night and by evaluation of sensory feedback during the day interact to produce
the complex circadian patterns seen early in vocal development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07615 
PMCID: PMC2651989
PMID: 19079238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1163-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07611. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase-tRNA(Pyl) structure reveals the molecular basis of
orthogonality.

Nozawa K(1), O'Donoghue P, Gundllapalli S, Araiso Y, Ishitani R, Umehara T, Söll 
D, Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Information, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, B34 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, 
Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 226-8501, Japan.

Pyrrolysine (Pyl), the 22nd natural amino acid, is genetically encoded by UAG and
inserted into proteins by the unique suppressor tRNA(Pyl) (ref. 1). The
Methanosarcinaceae produce Pyl and express Pyl-containing methyltransferases that
allow growth on methylamines. Homologous methyltransferases and the Pyl
biosynthetic and coding machinery are also found in two bacterial species. Pyl
coding is maintained by pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase (PylRS), which catalyses the
formation of Pyl-tRNA(Pyl) (refs 4, 5). Pyl is not a recent addition to the
genetic code. PylRS was already present in the last universal common ancestor; it
then persisted in organisms that utilize methylamines as energy sources. Recent
protein engineering efforts added non-canonical amino acids to the genetic code. 
This technology relies on the directed evolution of an 'orthogonal' tRNA
synthetase-tRNA pair in which an engineered aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase (aaRS)
specifically and exclusively acylates the orthogonal tRNA with a non-canonical
amino acid. For Pyl the natural evolutionary process developed such a system some
3 billion years ago. When transformed into Escherichia coli, Methanosarcina
barkeri PylRS and tRNA(Pyl) function as an orthogonal pair in vivo. Here we show 
that Desulfitobacterium hafniense PylRS-tRNA(Pyl) is an orthogonal pair in vitro 
and in vivo, and present the crystal structure of this orthogonal pair. The
ancient emergence of PylRS-tRNA(Pyl) allowed the evolution of unique structural
features in both the protein and the tRNA. These structural elements manifest an 
intricate, specialized aaRS-tRNA interaction surface that is highly distinct from
those observed in any other known aaRS-tRNA complex; it is this general property 
that underlies the molecular basis of orthogonality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07611 
PMCID: PMC2648862
PMID: 19118381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1159-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07596. Epub 2008 Dec
21.

Direct observation of the nanoscale dynamics of membrane lipids in a living cell.

Eggeling C(1), Ringemann C, Medda R, Schwarzmann G, Sandhoff K, Polyakova S,
Belov VN, Hein B, von Middendorff C, Schönle A, Hell SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nanobiophotonics, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany. ceggeli@gwdg.de

Cholesterol-mediated lipid interactions are thought to have a functional role in 
many membrane-associated processes such as signalling events. Although several
experiments indicate their existence, lipid nanodomains ('rafts') remain
controversial owing to the lack of suitable detection techniques in living cells.
The controversy is reflected in their putative size of 5-200 nm, spanning the
range between the extent of a protein complex and the resolution limit of optical
microscopy. Here we demonstrate the ability of stimulated emission depletion
(STED) far-field fluorescence nanoscopy to detect single diffusing (lipid)
molecules in nanosized areas in the plasma membrane of living cells. Tuning of
the probed area to spot sizes approximately 70-fold below the diffraction barrier
reveals that unlike phosphoglycerolipids, sphingolipids and
glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins are transiently ( approximately
10-20 ms) trapped in cholesterol-mediated molecular complexes dwelling within
<20-nm diameter areas. The non-invasive optical recording of molecular time
traces and fluctuation data in tunable nanoscale domains is a powerful new
approach to study the dynamics of biomolecules in living cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07596 
PMID: 19098897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1019-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07606. Epub 2008 Dec
31.

The Fas-FADD death domain complex structure unravels signalling by receptor
clustering.

Scott FL(1), Stec B, Pop C, Dobaczewska MK, Lee JJ, Monosov E, Robinson H,
Salvesen GS, Schwarzenbacher R, Riedl SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Apoptosis and Cell Death Research, The Burnham Institute for
Medical Research, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

The death inducing signalling complex (DISC) formed by Fas receptor, FADD
(Fas-associated death domain protein) and caspase 8 is a pivotal trigger of
apoptosis. The Fas-FADD DISC represents a receptor platform, which once assembled
initiates the induction of programmed cell death. A highly oligomeric network of 
homotypic protein interactions comprised of the death domains of Fas and FADD is 
at the centre of DISC formation. Thus, characterizing the mechanistic basis for
the Fas-FADD interaction is crucial for understanding DISC signalling but has
remained unclear largely because of a lack of structural data. We have
successfully formed and isolated the human Fas-FADD death domain complex and
report the 2.7 A crystal structure. The complex shows a tetrameric arrangement of
four FADD death domains bound to four Fas death domains. We show that an opening 
of the Fas death domain exposes the FADD binding site and simultaneously
generates a Fas-Fas bridge. The result is a regulatory Fas-FADD complex bridge
governed by weak protein-protein interactions revealing a model where the complex
itself functions as a mechanistic switch. This switch prevents accidental DISC
assembly, yet allows for highly processive DISC formation and clustering upon a
sufficient stimulus. In addition to depicting a previously unknown mode of death 
domain interactions, these results further uncover a mechanism for receptor
signalling solely by oligomerization and clustering events.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07606 
PMCID: PMC2661029
PMID: 19118384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1023-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07600. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

Artificial nanopores that mimic the transport selectivity of the nuclear pore
complex.

Jovanovic-Talisman T(1), Tetenbaum-Novatt J, McKenney AS, Zilman A, Peters R,
Rout MP, Chait BT.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Mass Spectrometry and Gaseous Ion Chemistry, The Rockefeller
University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) act as effective and robust gateways between the
nucleus and the cytoplasm, selecting for the passage of particular macromolecules
across the nuclear envelope. NPCs comprise an elaborate scaffold that defines a
approximately 30 nm diameter passageway connecting the nucleus and the cytoplasm.
This scaffold anchors proteins termed 'phenylalanine-glycine' (FG)-nucleoporins, 
the natively disordered domains of which line the passageway and extend into its 
lumen. Passive diffusion through this lined passageway is hindered in a
size-dependent manner. However, transport factors and their cargo-bound complexes
overcome this restriction by transient binding to the FG-nucleoporins. To test
whether a simple passageway and a lining of transport-factor-binding
FG-nucleoporins are sufficient for selective transport, we designed a
functionalized membrane that incorporates just these two elements. Here we
demonstrate that this membrane functions as a nanoselective filter, efficiently
passing transport factors and transport-factor-cargo complexes that specifically 
bind FG-nucleoporins, while significantly inhibiting the passage of proteins that
do not. This inhibition is greatly enhanced when transport factor is present.
Determinants of selectivity include the passageway diameter, the length of the
nanopore region coated with FG-nucleoporins, the binding strength to
FG-nucleoporins, and the antagonistic effect of transport factors on the passage 
of proteins that do not specifically bind FG-nucleoporins. We show that this
artificial system faithfully reproduces key features of trafficking through the
NPC, including transport-factor-mediated cargo import.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07600 
PMCID: PMC2764719
PMID: 19098896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1007-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07603. Epub 2008 Dec
21.

Nodal signalling is involved in left-right asymmetry in snails.

Grande C(1), Patel NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720-3200, USA.

Many animals display specific internal or external features with left-right
asymmetry. In vertebrates, the molecular pathway that leads to this asymmetry
uses the signalling molecule Nodal, a member of the transforming growth
factor-beta superfamily, which is expressed in the left lateral plate mesoderm,
and loss of nodal function produces a randomization of the left-right asymmetry
of visceral organs. Orthologues of nodal have also been described in other
deuterostomes, including ascidians and sea urchins, but no nodal orthologue has
been reported in the other two main clades of Bilateria: Ecdysozoa (including
flies and nematodes) and Lophotrochozoa (including snails and annelids). Here we 
report the first evidence for a nodal orthologue in a non-deuterostome group. We 
isolated nodal and Pitx (one of the targets of Nodal signalling) in two species
of snails and found that the side of the embryo that expresses nodal and Pitx is 
related to body chirality: both genes are expressed on the right side of the
embryo in the dextral (right-handed) species Lottia gigantea and on the left side
in the sinistral (left-handed) species Biomphalaria glabrata. We
pharmacologically inhibited the Nodal pathway and found that nodal acts upstream 
of Pitx, and that some treated animals developed with a loss of shell chirality. 
These results indicate that the involvement of the Nodal pathway in left-right
asymmetry might have been an ancestral feature of the Bilateria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07603 
PMCID: PMC2661027
PMID: 19098895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):901-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07577. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Calcium flickers steer cell migration.

Wei C(1), Wang X, Chen M, Ouyang K, Song LS, Cheng H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and
Membrane Biotechnology, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
chaoliang.wei@gmail.com

Directional movement is a property common to all cell types during development
and is critical to tissue remodelling and regeneration after damage. In migrating
cells, calcium has a multifunctional role in directional sensing, cytoskeleton
redistribution, traction force generation, and relocation of focal adhesions.
Here we visualize high-calcium microdomains ('calcium flickers') and their
patterned activation in migrating human embryonic lung fibroblasts. Calcium
flicker activity is dually coupled to membrane tension (by means of TRPM7, a
stretch-activated Ca(2+)-permeant channel of the transient receptor potential
superfamily) and chemoattractant signal transduction (by means of type 2
inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors). Interestingly, calcium flickers are most
active at the leading lamella of migrating cells, displaying a 4:1 front-to-rear 
polarization opposite to the global calcium gradient. When exposed to a
platelet-derived growth factor gradient perpendicular to cell movement,
asymmetric calcium flicker activity develops across the lamella and promotes the 
turning of migrating fibroblasts. These findings show how the exquisite
spatiotemporal organization of calcium microdomains can orchestrate complex
cellular processes such as cell migration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07577 
PMCID: PMC3505761
PMID: 19118385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):915-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07598. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

A stress-responsive RNA switch regulates VEGFA expression.

Ray PS(1), Jia J, Yao P, Majumder M, Hatzoglou M, Fox PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, The Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Ligand binding to structural elements in the non-coding regions of messenger RNA 
modulates gene expression. Ligands such as free metabolites or other small
molecules directly bind and induce conformational changes in regulatory RNA
elements known as riboswitches. Other types of RNA switches are activated by
complexed metabolites-for example, RNA-ligated metabolites such as
aminoacyl-charged transfer RNA in the T-box system, or protein-bound metabolites 
in the glucose- or amino-acid-stimulated terminator-anti-terminator systems. All 
of these switch types are found in bacteria, fungi and plants. Here we report an 
RNA switch in human vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGFA, also known as
VEGF) mRNA 3' untranslated region (UTR) that integrates signals from interferon
(IFN)-gamma and hypoxia to regulate VEGFA translation in myeloid cells. Analogous
to riboswitches, the VEGFA 3' UTR undergoes a binary conformational change in
response to environmental signals. However, the VEGFA 3' UTR switch is
metabolite-independent, and the conformational change is dictated by mutually
exclusive, stimulus-dependent binding of proteins, namely, the
IFN-gamma-activated inhibitor of translation complex and heterogeneous nuclear
ribonucleoprotein L (HNRNPL, also known as hnRNP L). We speculate that the VEGFA 
switch represents the founding member of a family of signal-mediated,
protein-dependent RNA switches that evolved to regulate gene expression in
multicellular animals in which the precise integration of disparate inputs may be
more important than the rapidity of response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07598 
PMCID: PMC2858559
PMID: 19098893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):906-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07575. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

ABIN-1 is a ubiquitin sensor that restricts cell death and sustains embryonic
development.

Oshima S(1), Turer EE, Callahan JA, Chai S, Advincula R, Barrera J, Shifrin N,
Lee B, Benedict Yen TS, Woo T, Malynn BA, Ma A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, 513
Parnassus Avenue, S-1057, San Francisco, California 94143-0451, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):538.

Proteins that directly regulate tumour necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) signalling
have critical roles in regulating cellular activation and survival. ABIN-1 (A20
binding and inhibitor of NF-kappaB) is a novel protein that is thought to inhibit
NF-kappaB signalling. Here we show that mice deficient for ABIN-1 die during
embryogenesis with fetal liver apoptosis, anaemia and hypoplasia. ABIN-1
deficient cells are hypersensitive to tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-induced
programmed cell death, and TNF deficiency rescues ABIN-1 deficient embryos.
ABIN-1 inhibits caspase 8 recruitment to FADD (Fas-associated death
domain-containing protein) in TNF-induced signalling complexes, preventing
caspase 8 cleavage and programmed cell death. Moreover, ABIN-1 directly binds
polyubiquitin chains and this ubiquitin sensing activity is required for ABIN-1's
anti-apoptotic activity. These studies provide insights into how ubiquitination
and ubiquitin sensing proteins regulate cellular and organismal survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07575 
PMCID: PMC2642523
PMID: 19060883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):741-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07579. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Peptide neurotransmitters activate a cation channel complex of NALCN and UNC-80.

Lu B(1), Su Y, Das S, Wang H, Wang Y, Liu J, Ren D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, 415 S. University Avenue,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Several neurotransmitters act through G-protein-coupled receptors to evoke a
'slow' excitation of neurons. These include peptides, such as substance P and
neurotensin, as well as acetylcholine and noradrenaline. Unlike the fast
(approximately millisecond) ionotropic actions of small-molecule
neurotransmitters, the slow excitation is not well understood at the molecular
level, but can be mainly attributed to suppressing K(+) currents and/or
activating a non-selective cation channel. The molecular identity of this cation 
channel has yet to be determined; similarly, how the channel is activated and its
relative contribution to neuronal excitability induced by the neuropeptides are
unknown. Here we show that, in the mouse hippocampal and ventral tegmental area
neurons, substance P and neurotensin activate a channel complex containing NALCN 
and a large previously unknown protein UNC-80. The activation by substance P
through TACR1 (a G-protein-coupled receptor for substance P) occurs by means of a
unique mechanism: it does not require G-protein activation but is dependent on
Src family kinases. These findings identify NALCN as the cation channel activated
by substance P receptor, and suggest that UNC-80 and Src family kinases, rather
than a G protein, are involved in the coupling from receptor to channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07579 
PMCID: PMC2810458
PMID: 19092807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):726-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07583. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

Signalling through RHEB-1 mediates intermittent fasting-induced longevity in C.
elegans.

Honjoh S(1), Yamamoto T, Uno M, Nishida E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Graduate School of Biostudies,
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8502, Japan.

Dietary restriction is the most effective and reproducible intervention to extend
lifespan in divergent species. In mammals, two regimens of dietary restriction,
intermittent fasting (IF) and chronic caloric restriction, have proven to extend 
lifespan and reduce the incidence of age-related disorders. An important
characteristic of IF is that it can increase lifespan even when there is little
or no overall decrease in calorie intake. The molecular mechanisms underlying
IF-induced longevity, however, remain largely unknown. Here we establish an IF
regimen that effectively extends the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans, and show
that the low molecular weight GTPase RHEB-1 has a dual role in lifespan
regulation; RHEB-1 is required for the IF-induced longevity, whereas inhibition
of RHEB-1 mimics the caloric-restriction effects. RHEB-1 exerts its effects in
part by the insulin/insulin growth factor (IGF)-like signalling effector DAF-16
in IF. Our analyses demonstrate that most fasting-induced upregulated genes
require RHEB-1 function for their induction, and that RHEB-1 and TOR signalling
are required for the fasting-induced downregulation of an insulin-like peptide,
INS-7. These findings identify the essential role of signalling by RHEB-1 in
IF-induced longevity and gene expression changes, and suggest a molecular link
between the IF-induced longevity and the insulin/IGF-like signalling pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07583 
PMID: 19079239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):736-40. doi: 10.1038/nature07641. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

Messenger RNA targeting to endoplasmic reticulum stress signalling sites.

Aragón T(1), van Anken E, Pincus D, Serafimova IM, Korennykh AV, Rubio CA, Walter
P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California at San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158-2517, USA. Tomas.Aragon@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):668-9.

Deficiencies in the protein-folding capacity of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in
all eukaryotic cells lead to ER stress and trigger the unfolded protein response 
(UPR). ER stress is sensed by Ire1, a transmembrane kinase/endoribonuclease,
which initiates the non-conventional splicing of the messenger RNA encoding a key
transcription activator, Hac1 in yeast or XBP1 in metazoans. In the absence of ER
stress, ribosomes are stalled on unspliced HAC1 mRNA. The translational control
is imposed by a base-pairing interaction between the HAC1 intron and the HAC1 5' 
untranslated region. After excision of the intron, transfer RNA ligase joins the 
severed exons, lifting the translational block and allowing synthesis of Hac1
from the spliced HAC1 mRNA to ensue. Hac1 in turn drives the UPR gene expression 
program comprising 7-8% of the yeast genome to counteract ER stress. Here we show
that, on activation, Ire1 molecules cluster in the ER membrane into discrete foci
of higher-order oligomers, to which unspliced HAC1 mRNA is recruited by means of 
a conserved bipartite targeting element contained in the 3' untranslated region. 
Disruption of either Ire1 clustering or HAC1 mRNA recruitment impairs UPR
signalling. The HAC1 3' untranslated region element is sufficient to target other
mRNAs to Ire1 foci, as long as their translation is repressed. Translational
repression afforded by the intron fulfils this requirement for HAC1 mRNA.
Recruitment of mRNA to signalling centres provides a new paradigm for the control
of eukaryotic gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07641 
PMCID: PMC2768538
PMID: 19079237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):687-93. doi: 10.1038/nature07661. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

The unfolded protein response signals through high-order assembly of Ire1.

Korennykh AV(1), Egea PF, Korostelev AA, Finer-Moore J, Zhang C, Shokat KM,
Stroud RM, Walter P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California at San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA. alexei.korennykh@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):668-9.

Aberrant folding of proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum activates the
bifunctional transmembrane kinase/endoribonuclease Ire1. Ire1 excises an intron
from HAC1 messenger RNA in yeasts and Xbp1 messenger RNA in metozoans encoding
homologous transcription factors. This non-conventional mRNA splicing event
initiates the unfolded protein response, a transcriptional program that relieves 
the endoplasmic reticulum stress. Here we show that oligomerization is central to
Ire1 function and is an intrinsic attribute of its cytosolic domains. We obtained
the 3.2-A crystal structure of the oligomer of the Ire1 cytosolic domains in
complex with a kinase inhibitor that acts as a potent activator of the Ire1
RNase. The structure reveals a rod-shaped assembly that has no known precedence
among kinases. This assembly positions the kinase domain for
trans-autophosphorylation, orders the RNase domain, and creates an interaction
surface for binding of the mRNA substrate. Activation of Ire1 through
oligomerization expands the mechanistic repertoire of kinase-based signalling
receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07661 
PMCID: PMC2846394
PMID: 19079236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):745-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07581. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Counting RAD51 proteins disassembling from nucleoprotein filaments under tension.

van Mameren J(1), Modesti M, Kanaar R, Wyman C, Peterman EJ, Wuite GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Centre and Department of Physics and Astronomy, VU University, De
Boelelaan 1081, 1081 HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The central catalyst in eukaryotic ATP-dependent homologous recombination
consists of RAD51 proteins, polymerized around single-stranded DNA. This
nucleoprotein filament recognizes and invades a homologous duplex DNA segment.
After strand exchange, the nucleoprotein filament should disassemble so that the 
recombination process can be completed. The molecular mechanism of RAD51 filament
disassembly is poorly understood. Here we show, by combining optical tweezers
with single-molecule fluorescence microscopy and microfluidics, that disassembly 
of human RAD51 nucleoprotein filaments results from the interplay between ATP
hydrolysis and the release of the tension stored in the filament. By applying
external tension to the DNA, we found that disassembly slows down and can even be
stalled. We quantified the fluorescence of RAD51 patches and found that
disassembly occurs in bursts interspersed by long pauses. After relaxation of a
stalled complex, pauses were suppressed resulting in a large burst. These results
indicate that tension-dependent disassembly takes place only from filament ends, 
after tension-independent ATP hydrolysis. This integrative single-molecule
approach allowed us to dissect the mechanism of this principal homologous
recombination reaction step, which in turn clarifies how disassembly can be
influenced by accessory proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07581 
PMCID: PMC3871861
PMID: 19060884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):731-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07578. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Chlamydia causes fragmentation of the Golgi compartment to ensure reproduction.

Heuer D(1), Rejman Lipinski A, Machuy N, Karlas A, Wehrens A, Siedler F,
Brinkmann V, Meyer TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

The obligate intracellular bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis survives and
replicates within a membrane-bound vacuole, termed the inclusion, which
intercepts host exocytic pathways to obtain nutrients. Like many other
intracellular pathogens, C. trachomatis has a marked requirement for host cell
lipids, such as sphingolipids and cholesterol, produced in the endoplasmic
reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. However, the mechanisms by which intracellular
pathogens acquire host cell lipids are not well understood. In particular, no
host cell protein responsible for transporting Golgi-derived lipids to the
chlamydial inclusions has yet been identified. Here we show that Chlamydia
infection in human epithelial cells induces Golgi fragmentation to generate Golgi
ministacks surrounding the bacterial inclusion. Ministack formation is triggered 
by the proteolytic cleavage of the Golgi matrix protein golgin-84. Inhibition of 
golgin-84 truncation prevents Golgi fragmentation, causing a block in lipid
acquisition and maturation of C. trachomatis. Golgi fragmentation by means of
RNA-interference-mediated knockdown of distinct Golgi matrix proteins before
infection enhances bacterial maturation. Our data functionally connect
bacteria-induced golgin-84 cleavage, Golgi ministack formation, lipid acquisition
and intracellular pathogen growth. We show that C. trachomatis subverts the
structure and function of an entire host cell organelle for its own advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07578 
PMID: 19060882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):722-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07537. Epub 2008 Nov 2.

A human natural killer cell subset provides an innate source of IL-22 for mucosal
immunity.

Cella M(1), Fuchs A, Vermi W, Facchetti F, Otero K, Lennerz JK, Doherty JM, Mills
JC, Colonna M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Natural killer (NK) cells are classically viewed as lymphocytes that provide
innate surveillance against virally infected cells and tumour cells through the
release of cytolytic mediators and interferon (IFN)-gamma. In humans, blood
CD56(dim) NK cells specialize in the lysis of cell targets. In the lymph nodes,
CD56(bright) NK cells secrete IFN-gamma cooperating with dendritic cells and T
cells in the generation of adaptive responses. Here we report the
characterization of a human NK cell subset located in mucosa-associated lymphoid 
tissues, such as tonsils and Peyer's patches, which is hard-wired to secrete
interleukin (IL)-22, IL-26 and leukaemia inhibitory factor. These NK cells, which
we refer to as NK-22 cells, are triggered by acute exposure to IL-23. In vitro,
NK-22-secreted cytokines stimulate epithelial cells to secrete IL-10, proliferate
and express a variety of mitogenic and anti-apoptotic molecules. NK-22 cells are 
also found in mouse mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues and appear in the small
intestine lamina propria during bacterial infection, suggesting that NK-22 cells 
provide an innate source of IL-22 that may help constrain inflammation and
protect mucosal sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07537 
PMCID: PMC3772687
PMID: 18978771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):603-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07589. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Prominin 1 marks intestinal stem cells that are susceptible to neoplastic
transformation.

Zhu L(1), Gibson P, Currle DS, Tong Y, Richardson RJ, Bayazitov IT, Poppleton H, 
Zakharenko S, Ellison DW, Gilbertson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2009 Feb 3;15(2):87-9.

Cancer stem cells are remarkably similar to normal stem cells: both self-renew,
are multipotent and express common surface markers, for example, prominin 1
(PROM1, also called CD133). What remains unclear is whether cancer stem cells are
the direct progeny of mutated stem cells or more mature cells that reacquire stem
cell properties during tumour formation. Answering this question will require
knowledge of whether normal stem cells are susceptible to cancer-causing
mutations; however, this has proved difficult to test because the identity of
most adult tissue stem cells is not known. Here, using an inducible Cre, nuclear 
LacZ reporter allele knocked into the Prom1 locus (Prom1(C-L)), we show that
Prom1 is expressed in a variety of developing and adult tissues. Lineage-tracing 
studies of adult Prom1(+/C-L) mice containing the Rosa26-YFP reporter allele
showed that Prom1(+) cells are located at the base of crypts in the small
intestine, co-express Lgr5 (ref. 2), generate the entire intestinal epithelium,
and are therefore the small intestinal stem cell. Prom1 was reported recently to 
mark cancer stem cells of human intestinal tumours that arise frequently as a
consequence of aberrant wingless (Wnt) signalling. Activation of endogenous Wnt
signalling in Prom1(+/C-L) mice containing a Cre-dependent mutant allele of
beta-catenin (Ctnnb1(lox(ex3))) resulted in a gross disruption of crypt
architecture and a disproportionate expansion of Prom1(+) cells at the crypt
base. Lineage tracing demonstrated that the progeny of these cells replaced the
mucosa of the entire small intestine with neoplastic tissue that was
characterized by focal high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and crypt adenoma
formation. Although all neoplastic cells arose from Prom1(+) cells in these mice,
only 7% of tumour cells retained Prom1 expression. Our data indicate that Prom1
marks stem cells in the adult small intestine that are susceptible to
transformation into tumours retaining a fraction of mutant Prom1(+) tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07589 
PMCID: PMC2633030
PMID: 19092805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07602. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Crypt stem cells as the cells-of-origin of intestinal cancer.

Barker N(1), Ridgway RA, van Es JH, van de Wetering M, Begthel H, van den Born M,
Danenberg E, Clarke AR, Sansom OJ, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute for Developmental Biology and Stem Cell Research,
Uppsalalaan 8, 3584CT Utrecht & University Medical Centre Utrecht, Netherlands.

Intestinal cancer is initiated by Wnt-pathway-activating mutations in genes such 
as adenomatous polyposis coli (APC). As in most cancers, the cell of origin has
remained elusive. In a previously established Lgr5 (leucine-rich-repeat
containing G-protein-coupled receptor 5) knockin mouse model, a
tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase is expressed in long-lived intestinal stem
cells. Here we show that deletion of Apc in these stem cells leads to their
transformation within days. Transformed stem cells remain located at crypt
bottoms, while fuelling a growing microadenoma. These microadenomas show
unimpeded growth and develop into macroscopic adenomas within 3-5weeks. The
distribution of Lgr5(+) cells within stem-cell-derived adenomas indicates that a 
stem cell/progenitor cell hierarchy is maintained in early neoplastic lesions.
When Apc is deleted in short-lived transit-amplifying cells using a different cre
mouse, the growth of the induced microadenomas rapidly stalls. Even after
30weeks, large adenomas are very rare in these mice. We conclude that
stem-cell-specific loss of Apc results in progressively growing neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07602 
PMID: 19092804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):612-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07580. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

RAD6-RAD18-RAD5-pathway-dependent tolerance to chronic low-dose ultraviolet
light.

Hishida T(1), Kubota Y, Carr AM, Iwasaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka University, 3-1 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. hishida@biken.osaka-u.ac.jp

In nature, organisms are exposed to chronic low-dose ultraviolet light (CLUV) as 
opposed to the acute high doses common to laboratory experiments. Analysis of the
cellular response to acute high-dose exposure has delineated the importance of
direct DNA repair by the nucleotide excision repair pathway and for
checkpoint-induced cell cycle arrest in promoting cell survival. Here we examine 
the response of yeast cells to CLUV and identify a key role for the
RAD6-RAD18-RAD5 error-free postreplication repair (RAD6 error-free PRR) pathway
in promoting cell growth and survival. We show that loss of the RAD6 error-free
PRR pathway results in DNA-damage-checkpoint-induced G2 arrest in CLUV-exposed
cells, whereas wild-type and nucleotide-excision-repair-deficient cells are
largely unaffected. Cell cycle arrest in the absence of the RAD6 error-free PRR
pathway was not caused by a repair defect or by the accumulation of
ultraviolet-induced photoproducts. Notably, we observed increased replication
protein A (RPA)- and Rad52-yellow fluorescent protein foci in the CLUV-exposed
rad18Delta cells and demonstrated that Rad52-mediated homologous recombination is
required for the viability of the rad18Delta cells after release from
CLUV-induced G2 arrest. These and other data presented suggest that, in response 
to environmental levels of ultraviolet exposure, the RAD6 error-free PRR pathway 
promotes replication of damaged templates without the generation of extensive
single-stranded DNA regions. Thus, the error-free PRR pathway is specifically
important during chronic low-dose ultraviolet exposure to prevent
counter-productive DNA checkpoint activation and allow cells to proliferate
normally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07580 
PMID: 19079240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):581-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07588. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Detoxification of sulphidic African shelf waters by blooming chemolithotrophs.

Lavik G(1), Stührmann T, Brüchert V, Van der Plas A, Mohrholz V, Lam P, Mussmann 
M, Fuchs BM, Amann R, Lass U, Kuypers MM.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, Celsiusstrasse 1, D-28359
Bremen, Germany.

Coastal waters support approximately 90 per cent of global fisheries and are
therefore an important food reserve for our planet. Eutrophication of these
waters, due to human activity, leads to severe oxygen depletion and the episodic 
occurrence of hydrogen sulphide-toxic to multi-cellular life-with disastrous
consequences for coastal ecosytems. Here we show that an area of approximately
7,000 km(2) of African shelf, covered by sulphidic water, was detoxified by
blooming bacteria that oxidized the biologically harmful sulphide to
environmentally harmless colloidal sulphur and sulphate. Combined chemical
analyses, stoichiometric modelling, isotopic incubations, comparative 16S
ribosomal RNA, functional gene sequence analyses and fluorescence in situ
hybridization indicate that the detoxification proceeded by chemolithotrophic
oxidation of sulphide with nitrate and was mainly catalysed by two discrete
populations of gamma- and epsilon-proteobacteria. Chemolithotrophic bacteria,
accounting for approximately 20 per cent of the bacterioplankton in sulphidic
waters, created a buffer zone between the toxic sulphidic subsurface waters and
the oxic surface waters, where fish and other nekton live. This is the first time
that large-scale detoxification of sulphidic waters by chemolithotrophs has been 
observed in an open-ocean system. The data suggest that sulphide can be
completely consumed by bacteria in the subsurface waters and, thus, can be
overlooked by remote sensing or monitoring of shallow coastal waters.
Consequently, sulphidic bottom waters on continental shelves may be more common
than previously believed, and could therefore have an important but as yet
neglected effect on benthic communities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07588 
PMID: 19078958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):599-602. doi: 10.1038/nature07586. Epub 2008 Dec
10.

Frequent somatic mutations of GNAQ in uveal melanoma and blue naevi.

Van Raamsdonk CD(1), Bezrookove V, Green G, Bauer J, Gaugler L, O'Brien JM,
Simpson EM, Barsh GS, Bastian BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T1Z3, Canada.

BRAF and NRAS are common targets for somatic mutations in benign and malignant
neoplasms that arise from melanocytes situated in epithelial structures, and lead
to constitutive activation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway.
However, BRAF and NRAS mutations are absent in a number of other melanocytic
neoplasms in which the equivalent oncogenic events are currently unknown. Here we
report frequent somatic mutations in the heterotrimeric G protein alpha-subunit, 
GNAQ, in blue naevi (83%) and ocular melanoma of the uvea (46%). The mutations
occur exclusively in codon 209 in the Ras-like domain and result in constitutive 
activation, turning GNAQ into a dominant acting oncogene. Our results demonstrate
an alternative route to MAP kinase activation in melanocytic neoplasia, providing
new opportunities for therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07586 
PMCID: PMC2696133
PMID: 19078957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):594-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07568. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli EtpA mediates adhesion between flagella and host
cells.

Roy K(1), Hilliard GM, Hamilton DJ, Luo J, Ostmann MM, Fleckenstein JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 956
Court Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38163, USA.

Adhesion to epithelial cells and flagella-mediated motility are critical
virulence traits for many Gram-negative pathogens, including enterotoxigenic
Escherichia coli (ETEC), a major cause of diarrhoea in travellers and children in
developing countries. Many flagellated pathogens export putative adhesins
belonging to the two-partner secretion (TPS) family. However, the actual function
of these adhesins remains largely undefined. Here we demonstrate that EtpA, a TPS
exoprotein adhesin of enterotoxigenic E. coli, mimics and interacts with highly
conserved regions of flagellin, the major subunit of flagella, and that these
interactions are critical for adherence and intestinal colonization. Although
conserved regions of flagellin are mostly buried in the flagellar shaft, our
results suggest that they are at least transiently exposed at the tips of
flagella where they capture EtpA adhesin molecules for presentation to eukaryotic
receptors. Similarity of EtpA to molecules encoded by other motile pathogens
suggests a potential common pattern for bacterial adhesion, whereas participation
of conserved regions of flagellin in adherence has implications for development
of vaccines for Gram-negative pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07568 
PMCID: PMC2646463
PMID: 19060885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):585-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07548. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Allergenicity resulting from functional mimicry of a Toll-like receptor complex
protein.

Trompette A(1), Divanovic S, Visintin A, Blanchard C, Hegde RS, Madan R, Thorne
PS, Wills-Karp M, Gioannini TL, Weiss JP, Karp CL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Immunology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center and the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio
45229, USA.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2009 May;5(3):233-7.

Aeroallergy results from maladaptive immune responses to ubiquitous, otherwise
innocuous environmental proteins. Although the proteins targeted by aeroallergic 
responses represent a tiny fraction of the airborne proteins humans are exposed
to, allergenicity is a quite public phenomenon-the same proteins typically behave
as aeroallergens across the human population. Why particular proteins tend to act
as allergens in susceptible hosts is a fundamental mechanistic question that
remains largely unanswered. The main house-dust-mite allergen, Der p 2, has
structural homology with MD-2 (also known as LY96), the lipopolysaccharide
(LPS)-binding component of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 signalling complex.
Here we show that Der p 2 also has functional homology, facilitating signalling
through direct interactions with the TLR4 complex, and reconstituting LPS-driven 
TLR4 signalling in the absence of MD-2. Mirroring this, airway sensitization and 
challenge with Der p 2 led to experimental allergic asthma in wild type and
MD-2-deficient, but not TLR4-deficient, mice. Our results indicate that Der p 2
tends to be targeted by adaptive immune responses because of its auto-adjuvant
properties. The fact that other members of the MD-2-like lipid-binding family are
allergens, and that most defined major allergens are thought to be lipid-binding 
proteins, suggests that intrinsic adjuvant activity by such proteins and their
accompanying lipid cargo may have some generality as a mechanism underlying the
phenomenon of allergenicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07548 
PMCID: PMC2843411
PMID: 19060881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):589-93. doi: 10.1038/nature07564. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

WNT11 acts as a directional cue to organize the elongation of early muscle
fibres.

Gros J(1), Serralbo O, Marcelle C.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Institute of Marseille Luminy (IBDML), Université de la 
Méditerranée, CNRS UMR 6216, Campus de Luminy, case 907, 13288 Marseille Cedex
09, France.

The early vertebrate skeletal muscle is a well-organized tissue in which the
primitive muscle fibres, the myocytes, are all parallel and aligned along the
antero-posterior axis of the embryo. How myofibres acquire their orientation
during development is unknown. Here we show that during early chick myogenesis
WNT11 has an essential role in the oriented elongation of the myocytes. We find
that the neural tube, known to drive WNT11 expression in the medial border of
somites, is necessary and sufficient to orient myocyte elongation. We then show
that the specific inhibition of WNT11 function in somites leads to the
disorganization of myocytes. We establish that WNT11 mediates this effect through
the evolutionary conserved planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway, downstream of the 
WNT/beta-catenin-dependent pathway, required to initiate the myogenic program of 
myocytes and WNT11 expression. Finally, we demonstrate that a localized ectopic
source of WNT11 can markedly change the orientation of myocytes, indicating that 
WNT11 acts as a directional cue in this process. All together, these data show
that the sequential action of the WNT/PCP and the WNT/beta-catenin pathways is
necessary for the formation of fully functional embryonic muscle fibres. This
study also provides evidence that WNTs can act as instructive cues to regulate
the PCP pathway in vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07564 
PMID: 18987628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):490-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07547. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Endochondral ossification is required for haematopoietic stem-cell niche
formation.

Chan CK(1), Chen CC, Luppen CA, Kim JB, DeBoer AT, Wei K, Helms JA, Kuo CJ, Kraft
DL, Weissman IL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Developmental Biology and Institute for Stem Cell
Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University, California, USA.
chazchan@stanford.edu

Little is known about the formation of niches, local micro-environments required 
for stem-cell maintenance. Here we develop an in vivo assay for adult
haematopoietic stem-cell (HSC) niche formation. With this assay, we identified a 
population of progenitor cells with surface markers
CD45(-)Tie2(-)alpha(V)(+)CD105(+)Thy1.1(-) (CD105(+)Thy1(-)) that, when sorted
from 15.5 days post-coitum fetal bones and transplanted under the adult mouse
kidney capsule, could recruit host-derived blood vessels, produce donor-derived
ectopic bones through a cartilage intermediate and generate a marrow cavity
populated by host-derived long-term reconstituting HSC (LT-HSC). In contrast,
CD45(-)Tie2(-)alpha(V)(+)CD105(+)Thy1(+) (CD105(+)Thy1(+)) fetal bone progenitors
form bone that does not contain a marrow cavity. Suppressing expression of
factors involved in endochondral ossification, such as osterix and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF), inhibited niche generation. CD105(+)Thy1(-)
progenitor populations derived from regions of the fetal mandible or calvaria
that do not undergo endochondral ossification formed only bone without marrow in 
our assay. Collectively, our data implicate endochondral ossification, bone
formation that proceeds through a cartilage intermediate, as a requirement for
adult HSC niche formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07547 
PMCID: PMC2648141
PMID: 19078959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):463-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07532. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

A simple model of bipartite cooperation for ecological and organizational
networks.

Saavedra S(1), Reed-Tsochas F, Uzzi B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PJ, UK.

In theoretical ecology, simple stochastic models that satisfy two basic
conditions about the distribution of niche values and feeding ranges have proved 
successful in reproducing the overall structural properties of real food webs,
using species richness and connectance as the only input parameters. Recently,
more detailed models have incorporated higher levels of constraint in order to
reproduce the actual links observed in real food webs. Here, building on previous
stochastic models of consumer-resource interactions between species, we propose a
highly parsimonious model that can reproduce the overall bipartite structure of
cooperative partner-partner interactions, as exemplified by plant-animal
mutualistic networks. Our stochastic model of bipartite cooperation uses simple
specialization and interaction rules, and only requires three empirical input
parameters. We test the bipartite cooperation model on ten large pollination data
sets that have been compiled in the literature, and find that it successfully
replicates the degree distribution, nestedness and modularity of the empirical
networks. These properties are regarded as key to understanding cooperation in
mutualistic networks. We also apply our model to an extensive data set of two
classes of company engaged in joint production in the garment industry. Using the
same metrics, we find that the network of manufacturer-contractor interactions
exhibits similar structural patterns to plant-animal pollination networks. This
surprising correspondence between ecological and organizational networks suggests
that the simple rules of cooperation that generate bipartite networks may be
generic, and could prove relevant in many different domains, ranging from
biological systems to human society.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07532 
PMID: 19052545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):480-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07540. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

A core gut microbiome in obese and lean twins.

Turnbaugh PJ(1), Hamady M, Yatsunenko T, Cantarel BL, Duncan A, Ley RE, Sogin ML,
Jones WJ, Roe BA, Affourtit JP, Egholm M, Henrissat B, Heath AC, Knight R, Gordon
JI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine, St
Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2009 Apr;27(4):344-6.

The human distal gut harbours a vast ensemble of microbes (the microbiota) that
provide important metabolic capabilities, including the ability to extract energy
from otherwise indigestible dietary polysaccharides. Studies of a few unrelated, 
healthy adults have revealed substantial diversity in their gut communities, as
measured by sequencing 16S rRNA genes, yet how this diversity relates to function
and to the rest of the genes in the collective genomes of the microbiota (the gut
microbiome) remains obscure. Studies of lean and obese mice suggest that the gut 
microbiota affects energy balance by influencing the efficiency of calorie
harvest from the diet, and how this harvested energy is used and stored. Here we 
characterize the faecal microbial communities of adult female monozygotic and
dizygotic twin pairs concordant for leanness or obesity, and their mothers, to
address how host genotype, environmental exposure and host adiposity influence
the gut microbiome. Analysis of 154 individuals yielded 9,920 near full-length
and 1,937,461 partial bacterial 16S rRNA sequences, plus 2.14 gigabases from
their microbiomes. The results reveal that the human gut microbiome is shared
among family members, but that each person's gut microbial community varies in
the specific bacterial lineages present, with a comparable degree of co-variation
between adult monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs. However, there was a wide
array of shared microbial genes among sampled individuals, comprising an
extensive, identifiable 'core microbiome' at the gene, rather than at the
organismal lineage, level. Obesity is associated with phylum-level changes in the
microbiota, reduced bacterial diversity and altered representation of bacterial
genes and metabolic pathways. These results demonstrate that a diversity of
organismal assemblages can nonetheless yield a core microbiome at a functional
level, and that deviations from this core are associated with different
physiological states (obese compared with lean).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07540 
PMCID: PMC2677729
PMID: 19043404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):485-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07529. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

Protein kinase R reveals an evolutionary model for defeating viral mimicry.

Elde NC(1), Child SJ, Geballe AP, Malik HS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.

Distinguishing self from non-self is a fundamental biological challenge. Many
pathogens exploit the challenge of self discrimination by employing mimicry to
subvert key cellular processes including the cell cycle, apoptosis and
cytoskeletal dynamics. Other mimics interfere with immunity. Poxviruses encode
K3L, a mimic of eIF2alpha, which is the substrate of protein kinase R (PKR), an
important component of innate immunity in vertebrates. The PKR-K3L interaction
exemplifies the conundrum imposed by viral mimicry. To be effective, PKR must
recognize a conserved substrate (eIF2alpha) while avoiding rapidly evolving
substrate mimics such as K3L. Using the PKR-K3L system and a combination of
phylogenetic and functional analyses, we uncover evolutionary strategies by which
host proteins can overcome mimicry. We find that PKR has evolved under intense
episodes of positive selection in primates. The ability of PKR to evade viral
mimics is partly due to positive selection at sites most intimately involved in
eIF2alpha recognition. We also find that adaptive changes on multiple surfaces of
PKR produce combinations of substitutions that increase the odds of defeating
mimicry. Thus, although it can seem that pathogens gain insurmountable advantages
by mimicking cellular components, host factors such as PKR can compete in
molecular 'arms races' with mimics because of evolutionary flexibility at protein
interaction interfaces challenged by mimicry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07529 
PMCID: PMC2629804
PMID: 19043403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):467-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07539. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Ferritin is used for iron storage in bloom-forming marine pennate diatoms.

Marchetti A(1), Parker MS, Moccia LP, Lin EO, Arrieta AL, Ribalet F, Murphy ME,
Maldonado MT, Armbrust EV.

Author information: 
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Box 357940, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Primary productivity in 30-40% of the world's oceans is limited by availability
of the micronutrient iron. Regions with chronically low iron concentrations are
sporadically pulsed with new iron inputs by way of dust or lateral advection from
continental margins. Addition of iron to surface waters in these areas induces
massive phytoplankton blooms dominated primarily by pennate diatoms. Here we
provide evidence that the bloom-forming pennate diatoms Pseudo-nitzschia and
Fragilariopsis use the iron-concentrating protein, ferritin, to safely store
iron. Ferritin has not been reported previously in any member of the
Stramenopiles, a diverse eukaryotic lineage that includes unicellular algae,
macroalgae and plant parasites. Phylogenetic analyses suggest that ferritin may
have arisen in this small subset of diatoms through a lateral gene transfer. The 
crystal structure and functional assays of recombinant ferritin derived from
Pseudo-nitzschia multiseries reveal a maxi-ferritin that exhibits ferroxidase
activity and binds iron. The protein is predicted to be targeted to the
chloroplast to control the distribution and storage of iron for proper
functioning of the photosynthetic machinery. Abundance of Pseudo-nitzschia
ferritin transcripts is regulated by iron nutritional status, and is closely tied
to the loss and recovery of photosynthetic competence. Enhanced iron storage with
ferritin allows the oceanic diatom Pseudo-nitzschia granii to undergo several
more cell divisions in the absence of iron than the comparably sized, oceanic
centric diatom Thalassiosira oceanica. Ferritin in pennate diatoms probably
contributes to their success in chronically low-iron regions that receive
intermittent iron inputs, and provides an explanation for the importance of these
organisms in regulating oceanic CO(2) over geological timescales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07539 
PMID: 19037243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):495-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07522. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Pulsed contractions of an actin-myosin network drive apical constriction.

Martin AC(1), Kaschube M, Wieschaus EF.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Apical constriction facilitates epithelial sheet bending and invagination during 
morphogenesis. Apical constriction is conventionally thought to be driven by the 
continuous purse-string-like contraction of a circumferential actin and
non-muscle myosin-II (myosin) belt underlying adherens junctions. However, it is 
unclear whether other force-generating mechanisms can drive this process. Here we
show, with the use of real-time imaging and quantitative image analysis of
Drosophila gastrulation, that the apical constriction of ventral furrow cells is 
pulsed. Repeated constrictions, which are asynchronous between neighbouring
cells, are interrupted by pauses in which the constricted state of the cell apex 
is maintained. In contrast to the purse-string model, constriction pulses are
powered by actin-myosin network contractions that occur at the medial apical
cortex and pull discrete adherens junction sites inwards. The transcription
factors Twist and Snail differentially regulate pulsed constriction. Expression
of snail initiates actin-myosin network contractions, whereas expression of twist
stabilizes the constricted state of the cell apex. Our results suggest a new
model for apical constriction in which a cortical actin-myosin cytoskeleton
functions as a developmentally controlled subcellular ratchet to reduce apical
area incrementally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07522 
PMCID: PMC2822715
PMID: 19029882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):281-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07682. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Photon capture and signalling by melanopsin retinal ganglion cells.

Do MT(1), Kang SH, Xue T, Zhong H, Liao HW, Bergles DE, Yau KW.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. mdo@jhmi.edu

A subset of retinal ganglion cells has recently been discovered to be
intrinsically photosensitive, with melanopsin as the pigment. These cells project
primarily to brain centres for non-image-forming visual functions such as the
pupillary light reflex and circadian photoentrainment. How well they signal
intrinsic light absorption to drive behaviour remains unclear. Here we report
fundamental parameters governing their intrinsic light responses and associated
spike generation. The membrane density of melanopsin is 10(4)-fold lower than
that of rod and cone pigments, resulting in a very low photon catch and a
phototransducing role only in relatively bright light. Nonetheless, each captured
photon elicits a large and extraordinarily prolonged response, with a unique
shape among known photoreceptors. Notably, like rods, these cells are capable of 
signalling single-photon absorption. A flash causing a few hundred isomerized
melanopsin molecules in a retina is sufficient for reaching threshold for the
pupillary light reflex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07682 
PMCID: PMC2794210
PMID: 19118382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):277-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07677. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

Induced pluripotent stem cells from a spinal muscular atrophy patient.

Ebert AD(1), Yu J, Rose FF Jr, Mattis VB, Lorson CL, Thomson JA, Svendsen CN.

Author information: 
(1)The Waisman Center, The Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center, University
of Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin 53705, USA.
ebert@waisman.wisc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):269-70.

Spinal muscular atrophy is one of the most common inherited forms of neurological
disease leading to infant mortality. Patients have selective loss of lower motor 
neurons resulting in muscle weakness, paralysis and often death. Although patient
fibroblasts have been used extensively to study spinal muscular atrophy, motor
neurons have a unique anatomy and physiology which may underlie their
vulnerability to the disease process. Here we report the generation of induced
pluripotent stem cells from skin fibroblast samples taken from a child with
spinal muscular atrophy. These cells expanded robustly in culture, maintained the
disease genotype and generated motor neurons that showed selective deficits
compared to those derived from the child's unaffected mother. This is the first
study to show that human induced pluripotent stem cells can be used to model the 
specific pathology seen in a genetically inherited disease. As such, it
represents a promising resource to study disease mechanisms, screen new drug
compounds and develop new therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07677 
PMCID: PMC2659408
PMID: 19098894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):318-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07472. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Role for Spi-C in the development of red pulp macrophages and splenic iron
homeostasis.

Kohyama M(1), Ise W, Edelson BT, Wilker PR, Hildner K, Mejia C, Frazier WA,
Murphy TL, Murphy KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Tissue macrophages comprise a heterogeneous group of cell types differing in
location, surface markers and function. Red pulp macrophages are a distinct
splenic subset involved in removing senescent red blood cells. Transcription
factors such as PU.1 (also known as Sfpi1) and C/EBPalpha (Cebpa) have general
roles in myelomonocytic development, but the transcriptional basis for producing 
tissue macrophage subsets remains unknown. Here we show that Spi-C (encoded by
Spic), a PU.1-related transcription factor, selectively controls the development 
of red pulp macrophages. Spi-C is highly expressed in red pulp macrophages, but
not monocytes, dendritic cells or other tissue macrophages. Spic(-/-) mice have a
cell-autonomous defect in the development of red pulp macrophages that is
corrected by retroviral Spi-C expression in bone marrow cells, but have normal
monocyte and other macrophage subsets. Red pulp macrophages highly express genes 
involved in capturing circulating haemoglobin and in iron regulation. Spic(-/-)
mice show normal trapping of red blood cells in the spleen, but fail to
phagocytose these red blood cells efficiently, and develop an iron overload
localized selectively to splenic red pulp. Thus, Spi-C controls development of
red pulp macrophages required for red blood cell recycling and iron homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07472 
PMCID: PMC2756102
PMID: 19037245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):336-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07512. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Dynamics of DNA replication loops reveal temporal control of lagging-strand
synthesis.

Hamdan SM(1), Loparo JJ, Takahashi M, Richardson CC, van Oijen AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In all organisms, the protein machinery responsible for the replication of DNA,
the replisome, is faced with a directionality problem. The antiparallel nature of
duplex DNA permits the leading-strand polymerase to advance in a continuous
fashion, but forces the lagging-strand polymerase to synthesize in the opposite
direction. By extending RNA primers, the lagging-strand polymerase restarts at
short intervals and produces Okazaki fragments. At least in prokaryotic systems, 
this directionality problem is solved by the formation of a loop in the lagging
strand of the replication fork to reorient the lagging-strand DNA polymerase so
that it advances in parallel with the leading-strand polymerase. The replication 
loop grows and shrinks during each cycle of Okazaki fragment synthesis. Here we
use single-molecule techniques to visualize, in real time, the formation and
release of replication loops by individual replisomes of bacteriophage T7
supporting coordinated DNA replication. Analysis of the distributions of loop
sizes and lag times between loops reveals that initiation of primer synthesis and
the completion of an Okazaki fragment each serve as a trigger for loop release.
The presence of two triggers may represent a fail-safe mechanism ensuring the
timely reset of the replisome after the synthesis of every Okazaki fragment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07512 
PMCID: PMC2651468
PMID: 19029884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):327-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07523. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Altered circadian rhythms regulate growth vigour in hybrids and allopolyploids.

Ni Z(1), Kim ED, Ha M, Lackey E, Liu J, Zhang Y, Sun Q, Chen ZJ.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology, The University of Texas
at Austin, One University Station, A-4800, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Segregating hybrids and stable allopolyploids display morphological vigour, and
Arabidopsis allotetraploids are larger than the parents Arabidopsis thaliana and 
Arabidopsis arenosa-the mechanisms for this are unknown. Circadian clocks mediate
metabolic pathways and increase fitness in animals and plants. Here we report
that epigenetic modifications of the circadian clock genes CIRCADIAN CLOCK
ASSOCIATED 1 (CCA1) and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY) and their reciprocal
regulators TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1 (TOC1) and GIGANTEA (GI) mediate expression
changes in downstream genes and pathways. During the day, epigenetic repression
of CCA1 and LHY induced the expression of TOC1, GI and downstream genes
containing evening elements in chlorophyll and starch metabolic pathways in
allotetraploids and F(1) hybrids, which produced more chlorophyll and starch than
the parents in the same environment. Mutations in cca1 and cca1 lhy and the daily
repression of cca1 by RNA interference (RNAi) in TOC1::cca1(RNAi) transgenic
plants increased the expression of downstream genes and increased chlorophyll and
starch content, whereas constitutively expressing CCA1 or ectopically expressing 
TOC1::CCA1 had the opposite effect. The causal effects of CCA1 on output traits
suggest that hybrids and allopolyploids gain advantages from the control of
circadian-mediated physiological and metabolic pathways, leading to growth vigour
and increased biomass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07523 
PMCID: PMC2679702
PMID: 19029881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):313-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07487. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Experience leaves a lasting structural trace in cortical circuits.

Hofer SB(1), Mrsic-Flogel TD, Bonhoeffer T, Hübener M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Sensory experiences exert a powerful influence on the function and future
performance of neuronal circuits in the mammalian neocortex. Restructuring of
synaptic connections is believed to be one mechanism by which cortical circuits
store information about the sensory world. Excitatory synaptic structures, such
as dendritic spines, are dynamic entities that remain sensitive to alteration of 
sensory input throughout life. It remains unclear, however, whether structural
changes at the level of dendritic spines can outlast the original experience and 
thereby provide a morphological basis for long-term information storage. Here we 
follow spine dynamics on apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in functionally
defined regions of adult mouse visual cortex during plasticity of eye-specific
responses induced by repeated closure of one eye (monocular deprivation). The
first monocular deprivation episode doubled the rate of spine formation, thereby 
increasing spine density. This effect was specific to layer-5 cells located in
binocular cortex, where most neurons increase their responsiveness to the
non-deprived eye. Restoring binocular vision returned spine dynamics to baseline 
levels, but absolute spine density remained elevated and many monocular
deprivation-induced spines persisted during this period of functional recovery.
However, spine addition did not increase again when the same eye was closed for a
second time. This absence of structural plasticity stands out against the robust 
changes of eye-specific responses that occur even faster after repeated
deprivation. Thus, spines added during the first monocular deprivation experience
may provide a structural basis for subsequent functional shifts. These results
provide a strong link between functional plasticity and specific synaptic
rearrangements, revealing a mechanism of how prior experiences could be stored in
cortical circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07487 
PMID: 19005470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):322-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07526. Epub 2008 Oct 29.

The insect nephrocyte is a podocyte-like cell with a filtration slit diaphragm.

Weavers H(1), Prieto-Sánchez S, Grawe F, Garcia-López A, Artero R,
Wilsch-Bräuninger M, Ruiz-Gómez M, Skaer H, Denholm B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 
3EJ, UK.

The nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the vertebrate kidney.
It is composed of a glomerulus, the site of ultrafiltration, and a renal tubule, 
along which the filtrate is modified. Although widely regarded as a vertebrate
adaptation, 'nephron-like' features can be found in the excretory systems of many
invertebrates, raising the possibility that components of the vertebrate
excretory system were inherited from their invertebrate ancestors. Here we show
that the insect nephrocyte has remarkable anatomical, molecular and functional
similarity to the glomerular podocyte, a cell in the vertebrate kidney that forms
the main size-selective barrier as blood is ultrafiltered to make urine. In
particular, both cell types possess a specialized filtration diaphragm, known as 
the slit diaphragm in podocytes or the nephrocyte diaphragm in nephrocytes. We
find that fly (Drosophila melanogaster) orthologues of the major constituents of 
the slit diaphragm, including nephrin, NEPH1 (also known as KIRREL), CD2AP, ZO-1 
(TJP1) and podocin, are expressed in the nephrocyte and form a complex of
interacting proteins that closely mirrors the vertebrate slit diaphragm complex. 
Furthermore, we find that the nephrocyte diaphragm is completely lost in flies
lacking the orthologues of nephrin or NEPH1-a phenotype resembling loss of the
slit diaphragm in the absence of either nephrin (as in human congenital nephrotic
syndrome of the Finnish type, NPHS1) or NEPH1. These changes markedly impair
filtration function in the nephrocyte. The similarities we describe between
invertebrate nephrocytes and vertebrate podocytes provide evidence suggesting
that the two cell types are evolutionarily related, and establish the nephrocyte 
as a simple model in which to study podocyte biology and podocyte-associated
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07526 
PMCID: PMC2687078
PMID: 18971929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):332-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07510. Epub 2008 Oct 22.

Transcription inactivation through local refolding of the RNA polymerase
structure.

Belogurov GA(1), Vassylyeva MN, Sevostyanova A, Appleman JR, Xiang AX, Lira R,
Webber SE, Klyuyev S, Nudler E, Artsimovitch I, Vassylyev DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, The Ohio State University, 484 West 12th Avenue,
Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

Structural studies of antibiotics not only provide a shortcut to medicine
allowing for rational structure-based drug design, but may also capture snapshots
of dynamic intermediates that become 'frozen' after inhibitor binding.
Myxopyronin inhibits bacterial RNA polymerase (RNAP) by an unknown mechanism.
Here we report the structure of dMyx--a desmethyl derivative of myxopyronin
B--complexed with a Thermus thermophilus RNAP holoenzyme. The antibiotic binds to
a pocket deep inside the RNAP clamp head domain, which interacts with the DNA
template in the transcription bubble. Notably, binding of dMyx stabilizes
refolding of the beta'-subunit switch-2 segment, resulting in a configuration
that might indirectly compromise binding to, or directly clash with, the melted
template DNA strand. Consistently, footprinting data show that the antibiotic
binding does not prevent nucleation of the promoter DNA melting but instead
blocks its propagation towards the active site. Myxopyronins are thus, to our
knowledge, a first structurally characterized class of antibiotics that target
formation of the pre-catalytic transcription initiation complex-the decisive step
in gene expression control. Notably, mutations designed in switch-2 mimic the
dMyx effects on promoter complexes in the absence of antibiotic. Overall, our
results indicate a plausible mechanism of the dMyx action and a stepwise pathway 
of open complex formation in which core enzyme mediates the final stage of DNA
melting near the transcription start site, and that switch-2 might act as a
molecular checkpoint for DNA loading in response to regulatory signals or
antibiotics. The universally conserved switch-2 may have the same role in all
multisubunit RNAPs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07510 
PMCID: PMC2628454
PMID: 18946472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):161-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07582. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Quality control by the ribosome following peptide bond formation.

Zaher HS(1), Green R.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):157-8.

The overall fidelity of protein synthesis has been thought to rely on the
combined accuracy of two basic processes: the aminoacylation of transfer RNAs
with their cognate amino acid by the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, and the
selection of cognate aminoacyl-tRNAs by the ribosome in cooperation with the
GTPase elongation factor EF-Tu. These two processes, which together ensure the
specific acceptance of a correctly charged cognate tRNA into the aminoacyl (A)
site, operate before peptide bond formation. Here we report the identification of
an additional mechanism that contributes to high fidelity protein synthesis after
peptidyl transfer, using a well-defined in vitro bacterial translation system. In
this retrospective quality control step, the incorporation of an amino acid from 
a non-cognate tRNA into the growing polypeptide chain leads to a general loss of 
specificity in the A site of the ribosome, and thus to a propagation of errors
that results in abortive termination of protein synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07582 
PMCID: PMC2805954
PMID: 19092806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):210-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07536. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Caenorhabditis elegans dauers need LKB1/AMPK to ration lipid reserves and ensure 
long-term survival.

Narbonne P(1), Roy R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3A 1B1, Canada.

Many organisms can enter a dormant state or diapause to survive harsh
environmental conditions for extended durations. When Caenorhabditis elegans
larvae enter dauer they arrest feeding but remain active and motile, yet become
stress-resistant, extremely long-lived and non-ageing. Entry into dauer is
associated with a reduction in insulin-like signalling, the accumulation of
nutritive resources and a concomitant global change in metabolism, yet the
precise molecular and physiological processes that enable long-term survival in
the absence of caloric intake remain largely unknown. We show here that C.
elegans larvae that lack LKB1/AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase) signalling
enter dauer normally, but then rapidly consume their stored energy and
prematurely expire following vital organ failure. We found that this signalling
pathway acts in adipose-like tissues to downregulate triglyceride hydrolysis so
that these lipid reserves are rationed to last the entire duration of the arrest.
Indeed, the downregulation of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL-1) activity
suppresses both the rapid depletion of stored lipids and reduced life span of
AMPK mutant dauers, while AMPK directly phosphorylates ATGL-1. Finally, we show
that the slow release of energy during dauer is critical for appropriate
long-term osmoregulation, which fails as triglyceride resources become depleted. 
These mechanisms may be essential for survival through diapause, hibernation, or 
long-term fasting in diverse organisms and may also underlie AMPK-dependent life 
span extension.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07536 
PMID: 19052547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):205-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07520. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

The dynein regulatory complex is required for ciliary motility and otolith
biogenesis in the inner ear.

Colantonio JR(1), Vermot J, Wu D, Langenbacher AD, Fraser S, Chen JN, Hill KL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

In teleosts, proper balance and hearing depend on mechanical sensors in the inner
ear. These sensors include actin-based microvilli and microtubule-based cilia
that extend from the surface of sensory hair cells and attach to biomineralized
'ear stones' (or otoliths). Otolith number, size and placement are under strict
developmental control, but the mechanisms that ensure otolith assembly atop
specific cells of the sensory epithelium are unclear. Here we demonstrate that
cilia motility is required for normal otolith assembly and localization. Using in
vivo video microscopy, we show that motile tether cilia at opposite poles of the 
otic vesicle create fluid vortices that attract otolith precursor particles,
thereby biasing an otherwise random distribution to direct localized otolith
seeding on tether cilia. Independent knockdown of subunits for the dynein
regulatory complex and outer-arm dynein disrupt cilia motility, leading to
defective otolith biogenesis. These results demonstrate a requirement for the
dynein regulatory complex in vertebrates and show that cilia-driven flow is a key
epigenetic factor in controlling otolith biomineralization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07520 
PMCID: PMC3821763
PMID: 19043402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):215-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07521. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Analysis of combinatorial cis-regulation in synthetic and genomic promoters.

Gertz J(1), Siggia ED, Cohen BA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences, Department of Genetics, Washington University in
Saint Louis School of Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri
63108, USA.

Transcription factor binding sites are being discovered at a rapid pace. It is
now necessary to turn attention towards understanding how these sites work in
combination to influence gene expression. Quantitative models that accurately
predict gene expression from promoter sequence will be a crucial part of solving 
this problem. Here we present such a model, based on the analysis of synthetic
promoter libraries in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Thermodynamic models
based only on the equilibrium binding of transcription factors to DNA and to each
other captured a large fraction of the variation in expression in every library. 
Thermodynamic analysis of these libraries uncovered several phenomena in our
system, including cooperativity and the effects of weak binding sites. When
applied to the S. cerevisiae genome, a model of repression by Mig1 (which was
trained on synthetic promoters) predicts a number of Mig1-regulated genes that
lack significant Mig1-binding sites in their promoters. The success of the
thermodynamic approach suggests that the information encoded by combinations of
cis-regulatory sites is interpreted primarily through simple protein-DNA and
protein-protein interactions, with complicated biochemical reactions-such as
nucleosome modifications-being downstream events. Quantitative analyses of
synthetic promoter libraries will be an important tool in unravelling the rules
underlying combinatorial cis-regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07521 
PMCID: PMC2677908
PMID: 19029883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):200-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07475. Epub 2008 Nov 19.

Frequent in-frame somatic deletions activate gp130 in inflammatory hepatocellular
tumours.

Rebouissou S(1), Amessou M, Couchy G, Poussin K, Imbeaud S, Pilati C, Izard T,
Balabaud C, Bioulac-Sage P, Zucman-Rossi J.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, U674, Génomique fonctionnelle des tumeurs solides, Paris F-75010,
France.

Comment in
    Future Oncol. 2009 Apr;5(3):305-8.
    Hepatology. 2009 Apr;49(4):1387-9.
    J Hepatol. 2009 Jul;51(1):230-2.

Inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas are benign liver tumours defined by the
presence of inflammatory infiltrates and by the increased expression of
inflammatory proteins in tumour hepatocytes. Here we show a marked activation of 
the interleukin (IL)-6 signalling pathway in this tumour type; sequencing
candidate genes pinpointed this response to somatic gain-of-function mutations in
the IL6ST gene, which encodes the signalling co-receptor gp130. Indeed, 60% of
inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas harbour small in-frame deletions that target
the binding site of gp130 for IL-6, and expression of four different gp130
mutants in hepatocellular cells activates signal transducer and activator of
transcription 3 (STAT3) in the absence of ligand. Furthermore, analysis of
hepatocellular carcinomas revealed that rare gp130 alterations are always
accompanied by beta-catenin-activating mutations, suggesting a cooperative effect
of these signalling pathways in the malignant conversion of hepatocytes. The
recurrent gain-of-function gp130 mutations in these human hepatocellular adenomas
fully explains activation of the acute inflammatory phase observed in tumourous
hepatocytes, and suggests that similar alterations may occur in other
inflammatory epithelial tumours with STAT3 activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07475 
PMCID: PMC2695248
PMID: 19020503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):191-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07591. Epub 2008 Nov 16.

Myelomonocytic cell recruitment causes fatal CNS vascular injury during acute
viral meningitis.

Kim JV(1), Kang SS, Dustin ML, McGavern DB.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Pathogenesis, Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for
Biology and Medicine, Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York
University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Epilepsy Curr. 2009 Sep-Oct;9(5):148-50.
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):155-6.

Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection of the mouse central nervous system 
(CNS) elicits fatal immunopathology through blood-brain barrier breakdown and
convulsive seizures. Although lymphocytic-choriomeningitis-virus-specific
cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are essential for disease, their mechanism of
action is not known. To gain insights into disease pathogenesis, we observed the 
dynamics of immune cells in the meninges by two-photon microscopy. Here we report
visualization of motile CTLs and massive secondary recruitment of pathogenic
monocytes and neutrophils that were required for vascular leakage and acute
lethality. CTLs expressed multiple chemoattractants capable of recruiting
myelomonocytic cells. We conclude that a CD8(+) T-cell-dependent disorder can
proceed in the absence of direct T-cell effector mechanisms and rely instead on
CTL-recruited myelomonocytic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07591 
PMCID: PMC2702264
PMID: 19011611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):187-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07467. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Neural processing of auditory feedback during vocal practice in a songbird.

Keller GB(1), Hahnloser RH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroinformatics, University of Zurich/ETH Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Songbirds are capable of vocal learning and communication and are ideally suited 
to the study of neural mechanisms of complex sensory and motor processing. Vocal 
communication in a noisy bird colony and vocal learning of a specific song
template both require the ability to monitor auditory feedback to distinguish
self-generated vocalizations from external sounds and to identify mismatches
between the developing song and a memorized template acquired from a tutor.
However, neurons that respond to auditory feedback from vocal output have not
been found in song-control areas despite intensive searching. Here we investigate
feedback processing outside the traditional song system, in single auditory
forebrain neurons of juvenile zebra finches that were in a late developmental
stage of song learning. Overall, we found similarity of spike responses during
singing and during playback of the bird's own song, with song responses commonly 
leading by a few milliseconds. However, brief time-locked acoustic perturbations 
of auditory feedback revealed complex sensitivity that could not be predicted
from passive playback responses. Some neurons that responded to playback
perturbations did not respond to song perturbations, which is reminiscent of
sensory-motor mirror neurons. By contrast, some neurons were highly feedback
sensitive in that they responded vigorously to song perturbations, but not to
unperturbed songs or perturbed playback. These findings suggest that a
computational function of forebrain auditory areas may be to detect errors
between actual feedback and mirrored feedback deriving from an internal model of 
the bird's own song or that of its tutor. Such feedback-sensitive spikes could
constitute the key signals that trigger adaptive motor responses to song
disruptions or reinforce exploratory motor gestures for vocal learning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07467 
PMID: 19005471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07486. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Memory CD8 T-cell compartment grows in size with immunological experience.

Vezys V(1), Yates A, Casey KA, Lanier G, Ahmed R, Antia R, Masopust D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Center for Immunology, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):E3-4; discussion E4.

Memory CD8 T cells, generated by natural pathogen exposure or intentional
vaccination, protect the host against specific viral infections. It has long been
proposed that the number of memory CD8 T cells in the host is inflexible, and
that individual cells are constantly competing for limited space. Consequently,
vaccines that introduce over-abundant quantities of memory CD8 T cells specific
for an agent of interest could have catastrophic consequences for the host by
displacing memory CD8 T cells specific for all previous infections. To test this 
paradigm, we developed a vaccination regimen in mice that introduced as many new 
long-lived memory CD8 T cells specific for a single vaccine antigen as there were
memory CD8 T cells in the host before vaccination. Here we show that, in contrast
to expectations, the size of the memory CD8 T-cell compartment doubled to
accommodate these new cells, a change due solely to the addition of effector
memory CD8 T cells. This increase did not affect the number of CD4 T cells, B
cells or naive CD8 T cells, and pre-existing memory CD8 T cells specific for a
previously encountered infection were largely preserved. Thus, the number of
effector memory CD8 T cells in the mammalian host adapts according to
immunological experience. Developing vaccines that abundantly introduce new
memory CD8 T cells should not necessarily ablate pre-existing immunity to other
infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07486 
PMID: 19005468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):57-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07668. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

WSTF regulates the H2A.X DNA damage response via a novel tyrosine kinase
activity.

Xiao A(1), Li H, Shechter D, Ahn SH, Fabrizio LA, Erdjument-Bromage H,
Ishibe-Murakami S, Wang B, Tempst P, Hofmann K, Patel DJ, Elledge SJ, Allis CD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromatin Biology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

DNA double-stranded breaks present a serious challenge for eukaryotic cells. The 
inability to repair breaks leads to genomic instability, carcinogenesis and cell 
death. During the double-strand break response, mammalian chromatin undergoes
reorganization demarcated by H2A.X Ser 139 phosphorylation (gamma-H2A.X).
However, the regulation of gamma-H2A.X phosphorylation and its precise role in
chromatin remodelling during the repair process remain unclear. Here we report a 
new regulatory mechanism mediated by WSTF (Williams-Beuren syndrome transcription
factor, also known as BAZ1B)-a component of the WICH complex (WSTF-ISWI
ATP-dependent chromatin-remodelling complex). We show that WSTF has intrinsic
tyrosine kinase activity by means of a domain that shares no sequence homology to
any known kinase fold. We show that WSTF phosphorylates Tyr 142 of H2A.X, and
that WSTF activity has an important role in regulating several events that are
critical for the DNA damage response. Our work demonstrates a new mechanism that 
regulates the DNA damage response and expands our knowledge of domains that
contain intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07668 
PMCID: PMC2854499
PMID: 19092802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature07639. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Detection of functional haematopoietic stem cell niche using real-time imaging.

Xie Y(1), Yin T, Wiegraebe W, He XC, Miller D, Stark D, Perko K, Alexander R,
Schwartz J, Grindley JC, Park J, Haug JS, Wunderlich JP, Li H, Zhang S, Johnson
T, Feldman RA, Li L.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 E. 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1134.

Haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) niches, although proposed decades ago, have only
recently been identified as separate osteoblastic and vascular microenvironments.
Their interrelationships and interactions with HSCs in vivo remain largely
unknown. Here we report the use of a newly developed ex vivo real-time imaging
technology and immunoassaying to trace the homing of purified
green-fluorescent-protein-expressing (GFP(+)) HSCs. We found that transplanted
HSCs tended to home to the endosteum (an inner bone surface) in irradiated mice, 
but were randomly distributed and unstable in non-irradiated mice. Moreover,
GFP(+) HSCs were more frequently detected in the trabecular bone area compared
with compact bone area, and this was validated by live imaging bioluminescence
driven by the stem-cell-leukaemia (Scl) promoter-enhancer. HSCs home to bone
marrow through the vascular system. We found that the endosteum is well
vascularized and that vasculature is frequently localized near N-cadherin(+)
pre-osteoblastic cells, a known niche component. By monitoring individual HSC
behaviour using real-time imaging, we found that a portion of the homed HSCs
underwent active division in the irradiated mice, coinciding with their expansion
as measured by flow assay. Thus, in contrast to central marrow, the endosteum
formed a special zone, which normally maintains HSCs but promotes their expansion
in response to bone marrow damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07639 
PMID: 19052548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):92-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07434. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Live-animal tracking of individual haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells in their 
niche.

Lo Celso C(1), Fleming HE, Wu JW, Zhao CX, Miake-Lye S, Fujisaki J, Côté D, Rowe 
DW, Lin CP, Scadden DT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185
Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Stem cells reside in a specialized, regulatory environment termed the niche that 
dictates how they generate, maintain and repair tissues. We have previously
documented that transplanted haematopoietic stem and progenitor cell populations 
localize to subdomains of bone-marrow microvessels where the chemokine CXCL12 is 
particularly abundant. Using a combination of high-resolution confocal microscopy
and two-photon video imaging of individual haematopoietic cells in the calvarium 
bone marrow of living mice over time, we examine the relationship of
haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells to blood vessels, osteoblasts and
endosteal surface as they home and engraft in irradiated and
c-Kit-receptor-deficient recipient mice. Osteoblasts were enmeshed in
microvessels and relative positioning of stem/progenitor cells within this
complex tissue was nonrandom and dynamic. Both cell autonomous and non-autonomous
factors influenced primitive cell localization. Different haematopoietic cell
subsets localized to distinct locations according to the stage of
differentiation. When physiological challenges drove either engraftment or
expansion, bone-marrow stem/progenitor cells assumed positions in close proximity
to bone and osteoblasts. Our analysis permits observing in real time, at a single
cell level, processes that previously have been studied only by their long-term
outcome at the organismal level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07434 
PMCID: PMC2820276
PMID: 19052546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07481. Epub 2008 Nov 19.

Emergence of complex cell properties by learning to generalize in natural scenes.

Karklin Y(1), Lewicki MS.

Author information: 
(1)Computer Science Department & Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. yan.karklin@nyu.edu

A fundamental function of the visual system is to encode the building blocks of
natural scenes-edges, textures and shapes-that subserve visual tasks such as
object recognition and scene understanding. Essential to this process is the
formation of abstract representations that generalize from specific instances of 
visual input. A common view holds that neurons in the early visual system signal 
conjunctions of image features, but how these produce invariant representations
is poorly understood. Here we propose that to generalize over similar images,
higher-level visual neurons encode statistical variations that characterize local
image regions. We present a model in which neural activity encodes the
probability distribution most consistent with a given image. Trained on natural
images, the model generalizes by learning a compact set of dictionary elements
for image distributions typically encountered in natural scenes. Model neurons
show a diverse range of properties observed in cortical cells. These results
provide a new functional explanation for nonlinear effects in complex cells and
offer insight into coding strategies in primary visual cortex (V1) and higher
visual areas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07481 
PMID: 19020501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07469. Epub 2008 Nov 9.

Immune control of an SIV challenge by a T-cell-based vaccine in rhesus monkeys.

Liu J(1), O'Brien KL, Lynch DM, Simmons NL, La Porte A, Riggs AM, Abbink P,
Coffey RT, Grandpre LE, Seaman MS, Landucci G, Forthal DN, Montefiori DC,
Carville A, Mansfield KG, Havenga MJ, Pau MG, Goudsmit J, Barouch DH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Viral Pathogenesis, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

A recombinant adenovirus serotype 5 (rAd5) vector-based vaccine for HIV-1 has
recently failed in a phase 2b efficacy study in humans. Consistent with these
results, preclinical studies have demonstrated that rAd5 vectors expressing
simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) Gag failed to reduce peak or setpoint viral
loads after SIV challenge of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that lacked the
protective MHC class I allele Mamu-A*01 (ref. 3). Here we show that an improved
T-cell-based vaccine regimen using two serologically distinct adenovirus vectors 
afforded substantially improved protective efficacy in this challenge model. In
particular, a heterologous rAd26 prime/rAd5 boost vaccine regimen expressing SIV 
Gag elicited cellular immune responses with augmented magnitude, breadth and
polyfunctionality as compared with the homologous rAd5 regimen. After SIV(MAC251)
challenge, monkeys vaccinated with the rAd26/rAd5 regimen showed a 1.4 log
reduction of peak and a 2.4 log reduction of setpoint viral loads as well as
decreased AIDS-related mortality as compared with control animals. These data
demonstrate that durable partial immune control of a pathogenic SIV challenge for
more than 500 days can be achieved by a T-cell-based vaccine in
Mamu-A*01-negative rhesus monkeys in the absence of a homologous Env antigen.
These findings have important implications for the development of next-generation
T-cell-based vaccine candidates for HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07469 
PMCID: PMC2614452
PMID: 18997770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):111-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07462. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

X-ray structure of a pentameric ligand-gated ion channel in an apparently open
conformation.

Bocquet N(1), Nury H, Baaden M, Le Poupon C, Changeux JP, Delarue M, Corringer
PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pasteur Institute, G5 Group of Channel-Receptor, CNRS URA 2182.

Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels from the Cys-loop family mediate fast
chemo-electrical transduction, but the mechanisms of ion permeation and gating of
these membrane proteins remain elusive. Here we present the X-ray structure at
2.9 A resolution of the bacterial Gloeobacter violaceus pentameric ligand-gated
ion channel homologue (GLIC) at pH 4.6 in an apparently open conformation. This
cationic channel is known to be permanently activated by protons. The structure
is arranged as a funnel-shaped transmembrane pore widely open on the outer side
and lined by hydrophobic residues. On the inner side, a 5 A constriction matches 
with rings of hydrophilic residues that are likely to contribute to the ionic
selectivity. Structural comparison with ELIC, a bacterial homologue from Erwinia 
chrysanthemi solved in a presumed closed conformation, shows a wider pore where
the narrow hydrophobic constriction found in ELIC is removed. Comparative
analysis of GLIC and ELIC reveals, in concert, a rotation of each extracellular
beta-sandwich domain as a rigid body, interface rearrangements, and a
reorganization of the transmembrane domain, involving a tilt of the M2 and M3
alpha-helices away from the pore axis. These data are consistent with a model of 
pore opening based on both quaternary twist and tertiary deformation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07462 
PMID: 18987633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):115-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07461. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

Structure of a potentially open state of a proton-activated pentameric
ligand-gated ion channel.

Hilf RJ(1), Dutzler R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

The X-ray structure of a pentameric ligand-gated ion channel from Erwinia
chrysanthemi (ELIC) has recently provided structural insight into this family of 
ion channels at high resolution. The structure shows a homo-pentameric protein
with a barrel-stave architecture that defines an ion-conduction pore located on
the fivefold axis of symmetry. In this structure, the wide aqueous vestibule that
is encircled by the extracellular ligand-binding domains of the five subunits
narrows to a discontinuous pore that spans the lipid bilayer. The pore is
constricted by bulky hydrophobic residues towards the extracellular side, which
probably serve as barriers that prevent the diffusion of ions. This interrupted
pore architecture in ELIC thus depicts a non-conducting conformation of a
pentameric ligand-gated ion channel, the thermodynamically stable state in the
absence of bound ligand. As ligand binding promotes pore opening in these ion
channels and the specific ligand for ELIC has not yet been identified, we have
turned our attention towards a homologous protein from the cyanobacterium
Gloebacter violaceus (GLIC). GLIC was shown to form proton-gated channels that
are activated by a pH decrease on the extracellular side and that do not
desensitize after activation. Both prokaryotic proteins, ELIC and GLIC form ion
channels that are selective for cations over anions with poor discrimination
among monovalent cations, characteristics that resemble the conduction properties
of the cation-selective branch of the family that includes acetylcholine and
serotonin receptors. Here we present the X-ray structure of GLIC at 3.1 A
resolution. The structure reveals a conformation of the channel that is distinct 
from ELIC and that probably resembles the open state. In combination, both
structures suggest a novel gating mechanism for pentameric ligand-gated ion
channels where channel opening proceeds by a change in the tilt of the
pore-forming helices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07461 
PMID: 18987630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):1001-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07354.

Conformational changes in an ultrafast light-driven enzyme determine catalytic
activity.

Sytina OA(1), Heyes DJ, Hunter CN, Alexandre MT, van Stokkum IH, van Grondelle R,
Groot ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Faculty of Sciences, Vrije Universiteit, 
De Boelelaan 1081, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The role of conformational changes in explaining the huge catalytic power of
enzymes is currently one of the most challenging questions in biology. Although
it is now widely regarded that enzymes modulate reaction rates by means of short-
and long-range protein motions, it is almost impossible to distinguish between
conformational changes and catalysis. We have solved this problem using the
chlorophyll biosynthetic enzyme NADPH:protochlorophyllide (Pchlide)
oxidoreductase, which catalyses a unique light-driven reaction involving hydride 
and proton transfers. Here we report that prior excitation of the
enzyme-substrate complex with a laser pulse induces a more favourable
conformation of the active site, enabling the coupled hydride and proton transfer
reactions to occur. This effect, which is triggered during the Pchlide
excited-state lifetime and persists on a long timescale, switches the enzyme into
an active state characterized by a high rate and quantum yield of formation of a 
catalytic intermediate. The corresponding spectral changes in the mid-infrared
following the absorption of one photon reveal significant conformational changes 
in the enzyme, illustrating the importance of flexibility and dynamics in the
structure of enzymes for their function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07354 
PMID: 19092933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):938-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07573.

How supercontinents and superoceans affect seafloor roughness.

Whittaker JM(1), Müller RD, Roest WR, Wessel P, Smith WH.

Author information: 
(1)Earthbyte Group, School of Geosciences, Building F09, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia. jw@getech.com

Seafloor roughness varies considerably across the world's ocean basins and is
fundamental to controlling the circulation and mixing of heat in the ocean and
dissipating eddy kinetic energy. Models derived from analyses of active mid-ocean
ridges suggest that ocean floor roughness depends on seafloor spreading rates,
with rougher basement forming below a half-spreading rate threshold of 30-35 mm
yr(-1) (refs 4, 5), as well as on the local interaction of mid-ocean ridges with 
mantle plumes or cold-spots. Here we present a global analysis of marine
gravity-derived roughness, sediment thickness, seafloor isochrons and
palaeo-spreading rates of Cretaceous to Cenozoic ridge flanks. Our analysis
reveals that, after eliminating effects related to spreading rate and sediment
thickness, residual roughness anomalies of 5-20 mGal remain over large swaths of 
ocean floor. We found that the roughness as a function of palaeo-spreading
directions and isochron orientations indicates that most of the observed excess
roughness is not related to spreading obliquity, as this effect is restricted to 
relatively rare occurrences of very high obliquity angles (>45 degrees ).
Cretaceous Atlantic ocean floor, formed over mantle previously overlain by the
Pangaea supercontinent, displays anomalously low roughness away from mantle
plumes and is independent of spreading rates. We attribute this observation to a 
sub-Pangaean supercontinental mantle temperature anomaly leading to slightly
thicker than normal Late Jurassic and Cretaceous Atlantic crust, reduced brittle 
fracturing and smoother basement relief. In contrast, ocean crust formed above
Pacific superswells, probably reflecting metasomatized lithosphere underlain by
mantle at only slightly elevated temperatures, is not associated with basement
roughness anomalies. These results highlight a fundamental difference in the
nature of large-scale mantle upwellings below supercontinents and superoceans,
and their impact on oceanic crustal accretion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07573 
PMID: 19092932 


59. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):930-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07625.

Unconventional superconductivity in Ba(0.6)K(0.4)Fe2As2 from inelastic neutron
scattering.

Christianson AD(1), Goremychkin EA, Osborn R, Rosenkranz S, Lumsden MD, Malliakas
CD, Todorov IS, Claus H, Chung DY, Kanatzidis MG, Bewley RI, Guidi T.

Author information: 
(1)Neutron Scattering Science Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831, USA.

A new family of superconductors containing layers of iron arsenide has attracted 
considerable interest because of their high transition temperatures (T(c)), some 
of which are >50 K, and because of similarities with the high-T(c) copper oxide
superconductors. In both the iron arsenides and the copper oxides,
superconductivity arises when an antiferromagnetically ordered phase has been
suppressed by chemical doping. A universal feature of the copper oxide
superconductors is the existence of a resonant magnetic excitation, localized in 
both energy and wavevector, within the superconducting phase. This resonance,
which has also been observed in several heavy-fermion superconductors, is
predicted to occur when the sign of the superconducting energy gap takes opposite
values on different parts of the Fermi surface, an unusual gap symmetry which
implies that the electron pairing interaction is repulsive at short range.
Angle-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy shows no evidence of gap anisotropy in 
the iron arsenides, but such measurements are insensitive to the phase of the gap
on separate parts of the Fermi surface. Here we report inelastic neutron
scattering observations of a magnetic resonance below T(c) in
Ba(0.6)K(0.4)Fe(2)As(2), a phase-sensitive measurement demonstrating that the
superconducting energy gap has unconventional symmetry in the iron arsenide
superconductors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07625 
PMID: 19092931 


60. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):927-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07544.

A gravitationally lensed water maser in the early Universe.

Impellizzeri CM(1), McKean JP, Castangia P, Roy AL, Henkel C, Brunthaler A,
Wucknitz O.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie, Auf dem Hügel 69, D-53121 Bonn,
Germany. violette@mpifr-bonn.mpg.de

Water masers are found in dense molecular clouds closely associated with
supermassive black holes at the centres of active galaxies. On the basis of the
understanding of the local water-maser luminosity function, it was expected that 
masers at intermediate and high redshifts would be extremely rare. However,
galaxies at redshifts z > 2 might be quite different from those found locally,
not least because of more frequent mergers and interaction events. Here we use
gravitational lensing to search for masers at higher redshifts than would
otherwise be possible, and find a water maser at redshift 2.64 in the dust- and
gas-rich, gravitationally lensed type-1 quasar MG J0414+0534 (refs 6-13). The
isotropic luminosity is 10,000 (, solar luminosity), which is twice that of the
most powerful local water maser and half that of the most distant maser
previously known. Using the locally determined luminosity function, the
probability of finding a maser this luminous associated with any single active
galaxy is 10(-6). The fact that we see such a maser in the first galaxy we
observe must mean that the volume densities and luminosities of masers are higher
at redshift 2.64.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07544 
PMID: 19092930 


61. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):921-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07666.

Structure of an argonaute silencing complex with a seed-containing guide DNA and 
target RNA duplex.

Wang Y(1), Juranek S, Li H, Sheng G, Tuschl T, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.

Here we report on a 3.0 A crystal structure of a ternary complex of wild-type
Thermus thermophilus argonaute bound to a 5'-phosphorylated 21-nucleotide guide
DNA and a 20-nucleotide target RNA containing cleavage-preventing mismatches at
the 10-11 step. The seed segment (positions 2 to 8) adopts an A-helical-like
Watson-Crick paired duplex, with both ends of the guide strand anchored in the
complex. An arginine, inserted between guide-strand bases 10 and 11 in the binary
complex, locking it in an inactive conformation, is released on ternary complex
formation. The nucleic-acid-binding channel between the PAZ- and PIWI-containing 
lobes of argonaute widens on formation of a more open ternary complex. The
relationship of structure to function was established by determining cleavage
activity of ternary complexes containing position-dependent base mismatch, bulge 
and 2'-O-methyl modifications. Consistent with the geometry of the ternary
complex, bulges residing in the seed segments of the target, but not the guide
strand, were better accommodated and their complexes were catalytically active.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07666 
PMCID: PMC2765400
PMID: 19092929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):915-20. doi: 10.1038/nature07587.

SUMOylation regulates Rad18-mediated template switch.

Branzei D(1), Vanoli F, Foiani M.

Author information: 
(1)IFOM, the FIRC Institute for Molecular Oncology Foundation, IFOM-IEO Campus,
Via Adamello 16, 20139 Milan, Italy. dana.branzei@ifom-ieo-campus.it

Replication by template switch is thought to mediate DNA damage-bypass and
fillings of gaps. Gap-filling repair requires homologous recombination as well as
Rad18- and Rad5-mediated proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)
polyubiquitylation. However, it is unclear whether these processes are
coordinated, and the physical evidence for Rad18-Rad5-dependent template switch
at replication forks is still elusive. Here we show, using genetic and physical
approaches, that in budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) Rad18 is required
for the formation of X-shaped sister chromatid junctions (SCJs) at damaged
replication forks through a process involving PCNA polyubiquitylation and the
ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes Mms2 and Ubc13. The Rad18-Mms2-mediated
damage-bypass through SCJs requires the small ubiquitin-like modifier
(SUMO)-conjugating enzyme Ubc9 and SUMOylated PCNA, and is coordinated with
Rad51-dependent recombination events. We propose that the
Rad18-Rad5-Mms2-dependent SCJs represent template switch events. Altogether, our 
results unmask a role for PCNA ubiquitylation and SUMOylation pathways in
promoting transient damage-induced replication-coupled recombination events
involving sister chromatids at replication forks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07587 
PMID: 19092928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):904-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07605.

Neural palmitoyl-proteomics reveals dynamic synaptic palmitoylation.

Kang R(1), Wan J, Arstikaitis P, Takahashi H, Huang K, Bailey AO, Thompson JX,
Roth AF, Drisdel RC, Mastro R, Green WN, Yates JR 3rd, Davis NG, El-Husseini A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Brain Research Centre, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver V6T 1Z3, British Columbia, Canada. rkang@interchange.ubc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):887-8.

Palmitoylation regulates diverse aspects of neuronal protein trafficking and
function. Here a global characterization of rat neural palmitoyl-proteomes
identifies most of the known neural palmitoyl proteins-68 in total, plus more
than 200 new palmitoyl-protein candidates, with further testing confirming
palmitoylation for 21 of these candidates. The new palmitoyl proteins include
neurotransmitter receptors, transporters, adhesion molecules, scaffolding
proteins, as well as SNAREs and other vesicular trafficking proteins. Of
particular interest is the finding of palmitoylation for a brain-specific Cdc42
splice variant. The palmitoylated Cdc42 isoform (Cdc42-palm) differs from the
canonical, prenylated form (Cdc42-prenyl), both with regard to localization and
function: Cdc42-palm concentrates in dendritic spines and has a special role in
inducing these post-synaptic structures. Furthermore, assessing palmitoylation
dynamics in drug-induced activity models identifies rapidly induced changes for
Cdc42 as well as for other synaptic palmitoyl proteins, suggesting that
palmitoylation may participate broadly in the activity-driven changes that shape 
synapse morphology and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07605 
PMCID: PMC2610860
PMID: 19092927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):898-903. doi: 10.1038/nature07595.

Geometric frustration in buckled colloidal monolayers.

Han Y(1), Shokef Y, Alsayed AM, Yunker P, Lubensky TC, Yodh AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, 209 South
33rd Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Geometric frustration arises when lattice structure prevents simultaneous
minimization of local interaction energies. It leads to highly degenerate ground 
states and, subsequently, to complex phases of matter, such as water ice, spin
ice, and frustrated magnetic materials. Here we report a simple geometrically
frustrated system composed of closely packed colloidal spheres confined between
parallel walls. Diameter-tunable microgel spheres are self-assembled into a
buckled triangular lattice with either up or down displacements, analogous to an 
antiferromagnetic Ising model on a triangular lattice. Experiment and theory
reveal single-particle dynamics governed by in-plane lattice distortions that
partially relieve frustration and produce ground states with zigzagging stripes
and subextensive entropy, rather than the more random configurations and
extensive entropy of the antiferromagnetic Ising model. This tunable soft-matter 
system provides a means to directly visualize the dynamics of frustration,
thermal excitations and defects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07595 
PMID: 19092926 


65. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):891-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07620.

Sensing voltage across lipid membranes.

Swartz KJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Porter Neuroscience Research Center, Molecular Physiology and Biophysics
Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. swartzk@ninds.nih.gov

The detection of electrical potentials across lipid bilayers by specialized
membrane proteins is required for many fundamental cellular processes such as the
generation and propagation of nerve impulses. These membrane proteins possess
modular voltage-sensing domains, a notable example being the S1-S4 domains of
voltage-activated ion channels. Ground-breaking structural studies on these
domains explain how voltage sensors are designed and reveal important
interactions with the surrounding lipid membrane. Although further structures are
needed to understand the conformational changes that occur during voltage
sensing, the available data help to frame several key concepts that are
fundamental to the mechanism of voltage sensing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07620 
PMCID: PMC2629456
PMID: 19092925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):E8; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07653.

Carbon cycling and snowball Earth.

Goddéris Y, Donnadieu Y.

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Dec 6;450(7171):813-8.

The possibility that Earth witnessed episodes of global glaciation during the
latest Precambrian challenges our understanding of the physical processes
controlling the Earth's climate. Peltier et al. suggest that a 'hard snowball
Earth' state may have been prevented owing to the release of CO(2) from the
oxidation of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in the ocean as the temperature
decreased. Here we show that the model of Peltier et al. is not self-consistent
as it implies large fluctuations of the ocean alkalinity content without
providing any processes to account for it. Our findings suggest that the hard
snowball Earth hypothesis is still valid.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07653 
PMID: 19092867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):E7; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07655.

Snowball prevention questioned.

Hoffman PF, Crowley JW, Johnston DT, Jones DS, Schrag DP.

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Dec 6;450(7171):813-8.

The 'snowball Earth' hypothesis interprets geological evidence as indicating
multi-million-year episodes of global glaciation near the beginning and end of
the Proterozoic eon. On the basis of a coupled carbon cycle-climate model,
Peltier et al. propose that temperature-dependent remineralization of organic
carbon in a Neoproterozoic ocean with 100-1,000x more dissolved organic carbon
than today could create a negative climate feedback, thereby preventing a
snowball Earth. Their results are sensitive to initial conditions and model
parameters; moreover, important geological observations and components of the
carbon cycle are not considered-notably the absence of sources or sinks of
carbon. Their model results fall short of explaining the geological evidence in
the absence of global glaciation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07655 
PMID: 19092866 


68. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):957-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07441. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Contact inhibition of locomotion in vivo controls neural crest directional
migration.

Carmona-Fontaine C(1), Matthews HK, Kuriyama S, Moreno M, Dunn GA, Parsons M,
Stern CD, Mayor R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, University College London,
London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Contact inhibition of locomotion was discovered by Abercrombie more than 50 years
ago and describes the behaviour of fibroblast cells confronting each other in
vitro, where they retract their protrusions and change direction on contact. Its 
failure was suggested to contribute to malignant invasion. However, the molecular
basis of contact inhibition of locomotion and whether it also occurs in vivo are 
still unknown. Here we show that neural crest cells, a highly migratory and
multipotent embryonic cell population, whose behaviour has been likened to
malignant invasion, demonstrate contact inhibition of locomotion both in vivo and
in vitro, and that this accounts for their directional migration. When two
migrating neural crest cells meet, they stop, collapse their protrusions and
change direction. In contrast, when a neural crest cell meets another cell type, 
it fails to display contact inhibition of locomotion; instead, it invades the
other tissue, in the same manner as metastatic cancer cells. We show that
inhibition of non-canonical Wnt signalling abolishes both contact inhibition of
locomotion and the directionality of neural crest migration. Wnt-signalling
members localize at the site of cell contact, leading to activation of RhoA in
this region. These results provide the first example of contact inhibition of
locomotion in vivo, provide an explanation for coherent directional migration of 
groups of cells and establish a previously unknown role for non-canonical Wnt
signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07441 
PMCID: PMC2635562
PMID: 19078960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):993-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07480. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Endonucleolytic RNA cleavage by a eukaryotic exosome.

Lebreton A(1), Tomecki R, Dziembowski A, Séraphin B.

Author information: 
(1)Equipe Labellisée La Ligue, Centre de Génétique Moléculaire, CNRS UPR 2167,
91198 Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

The exosome is a major eukaryotic nuclease located in both the nucleus and the
cytoplasm that contributes to the processing, quality control and/or turnover of 
a large number of cellular RNAs. This large macromolecular assembly has been
described as a 3'-->5' exonuclease and shown to contain a nine-subunit ring
structure evolutionarily related to archaeal exosome-like complexes and bacterial
polynucleotide phosphorylases. Recent results have shown that, unlike its
prokaryotic counterparts, the yeast and human ring structures are catalytically
inactive. In contrast, the exonucleolytic activity of the yeast exosome core was 
shown to be mediated by the RNB domain of the eukaryote-specific Dis3 subunit.
Here we show, using in vitro assays, that yeast Dis3 has an additional
endoribonuclease activity mediated by the PIN domain located at the amino
terminus of this multidomain protein. Simultaneous inactivation of the
endonucleolytic and exonucleolytic activities of the exosome core generates a
synthetic growth phenotype in vivo, supporting a physiological function for the
PIN domain. This activity is responsible for the cleavage of some natural exosome
substrates, independently of exonucleolytic degradation. In contrast with current
models, our results show that eukaryotic exosome cores have both endonucleolytic 
and exonucleolytic activities, mediated by two distinct domains of the Dis3
subunit. The mode of action of eukaryotic exosome cores in RNA processing and
degradation should be reconsidered, taking into account the cooperation between
its multiple ribonucleolytic activities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07480 
PMID: 19060886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):910-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07584. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Spliceosomal cleavage generates the 3' end of telomerase RNA.

Box JA(1), Bunch JT, Tang W, Baumann P.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):879-80.

Telomeres cap the ends of chromosomes and provide a means to complete
replication. The DNA portion of telomeres is synthesized by the enzyme telomerase
using part of an RNA subunit as a template for reverse transcription. How the
mature 3' end of telomerase RNA is generated has so far remained elusive. Here we
show that in Schizosaccharomyces pombe telomerase RNA transcripts must be
processed to generate functional telomerase. Characterization of the maturation
pathway uncovered an unexpected role for the spliceosome, which normally
catalyses splicing of pre-messenger RNA. The first spliceosomal cleavage reaction
generates the mature 3' end of telomerase RNA (TER1, the functional RNA encoded
by the ter1(+) gene), releasing the active form of the RNA without exon ligation.
Blocking the first step or permitting completion of splicing generates inactive
forms of TER1 and causes progressive telomere shortening. We establish that 3'
end processing of TER1 is critical for telomerase function and describe a
previously unknown mechanism for RNA maturation that uses the ability of the
spliceosome to mediate site-specific cleavage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07584 
PMID: 19052544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):980-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07511. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

MicroRNA-21 contributes to myocardial disease by stimulating MAP kinase
signalling in fibroblasts.

Thum T(1), Gross C, Fiedler J, Fischer T, Kissler S, Bussen M, Galuppo P, Just S,
Rottbauer W, Frantz S, Castoldi M, Soutschek J, Koteliansky V, Rosenwald A,
Basson MA, Licht JD, Pena JT, Rouhanifard SH, Muckenthaler MU, Tuschl T, Martin
GR, Bauersachs J, Engelhardt S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine I, Interdisziplinäres Zentrum für Klinische Forschung
(IZKF), University of Wuerzburg, 97080 Wuerzburg, Germany.

MicroRNAs comprise a broad class of small non-coding RNAs that control expression
of complementary target messenger RNAs. Dysregulation of microRNAs by several
mechanisms has been described in various disease states including cardiac
disease. Whereas previous studies of cardiac disease have focused on microRNAs
that are primarily expressed in cardiomyocytes, the role of microRNAs expressed
in other cell types of the heart is unclear. Here we show that microRNA-21
(miR-21, also known as Mirn21) regulates the ERK-MAP kinase signalling pathway in
cardiac fibroblasts, which has impacts on global cardiac structure and function. 
miR-21 levels are increased selectively in fibroblasts of the failing heart,
augmenting ERK-MAP kinase activity through inhibition of sprouty homologue 1
(Spry1). This mechanism regulates fibroblast survival and growth factor
secretion, apparently controlling the extent of interstitial fibrosis and cardiac
hypertrophy. In vivo silencing of miR-21 by a specific antagomir in a mouse
pressure-overload-induced disease model reduces cardiac ERK-MAP kinase activity, 
inhibits interstitial fibrosis and attenuates cardiac dysfunction. These findings
reveal that microRNAs can contribute to myocardial disease by an effect in
cardiac fibroblasts. Our results validate miR-21 as a disease target in heart
failure and establish the therapeutic efficacy of microRNA therapeutic
intervention in a cardiovascular disease setting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07511 
PMID: 19043405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):997-1000. doi: 10.1038/nature07541. Epub 2008 Nov
26.

Nuclear receptor corepressor and histone deacetylase 3 govern circadian metabolic
physiology.

Alenghat T(1), Meyers K, Mullican SE, Leitner K, Adeniji-Adele A, Avila J, Bućan 
M, Ahima RS, Kaestner KH, Lazar MA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):881-3.

Rhythmic changes in histone acetylation at circadian clock genes suggest that
temporal modulation of gene expression is regulated by chromatin modifications.
Furthermore, recent studies demonstrate a critical relationship between circadian
and metabolic physiology. The nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (Ncor1) functions as
an activating subunit for the chromatin modifying enzyme histone deacetylase 3
(Hdac3). Lack of Ncor1 is incompatible with life, and hence it is unknown whether
Ncor1, and particularly its regulation of Hdac3, is critical for adult mammalian 
physiology. Here we show that specific, genetic disruption of the Ncor1-Hdac3
interaction in mice causes aberrant regulation of clock genes and results in
abnormal circadian behaviour. These mice are also leaner and more
insulin-sensitive owing to increased energy expenditure. Unexpectedly, loss of a 
functional Ncor1-Hdac3 complex in vivo does not lead to sustained increases in
known catabolic genes, but instead significantly alters the oscillatory patterns 
of several metabolic genes, demonstrating that circadian regulation of metabolism
is critical for normal energy balance. These findings indicate that activation of
Hdac3 by Ncor1 is a nodal point in the epigenetic regulation of circadian and
metabolic physiology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07541 
PMCID: PMC2742159
PMID: 19037247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):942-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07393. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Parallel adaptations to high temperatures in the Archaean eon.

Boussau B(1), Blanquart S, Necsulea A, Lartillot N, Gouy M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, CNRS, Université de Lyon,
Université Lyon I, 43 Boulevard du 11 Novembre, 69622 Villeurbanne, France.

Fossils of organisms dating from the origin and diversification of cellular life 
are scant and difficult to interpret, for this reason alternative means to
investigate the ecology of the last universal common ancestor (LUCA) and of the
ancestors of the three domains of life are of great scientific value. It was
recently recognized that the effects of temperature on ancestral organisms left
'genetic footprints' that could be uncovered in extant genomes. Accordingly,
analyses of resurrected proteins predicted that the bacterial ancestor was
thermophilic and that Bacteria subsequently adapted to lower temperatures. As the
archaeal ancestor is also thought to have been thermophilic, the LUCA was
parsimoniously inferred as thermophilic too. However, an analysis of ribosomal
RNAs supported the hypothesis of a non-hyperthermophilic LUCA. Here we show that 
both rRNA and protein sequences analysed with advanced, realistic models of
molecular evolution provide independent support for two
environmental-temperature-related phases during the evolutionary history of the
tree of life. In the first period, thermotolerance increased from a mesophilic
LUCA to thermophilic ancestors of Bacteria and of Archaea-Eukaryota; in the
second period, it decreased. Therefore, the two lineages descending from the LUCA
and leading to the ancestors of Bacteria and Archaea-Eukaryota convergently
adapted to high temperatures, possibly in response to a climate change of the
early Earth, and/or aided by the transition from an RNA genome in the LUCA to
organisms with more thermostable DNA genomes. This analysis unifies apparently
contradictory results into a coherent depiction of the evolution of an ecological
trait over the entire tree of life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07393 
PMID: 19037246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):946-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07474. Epub 2008 Nov 19.

Successful range-expanding plants experience less above-ground and below-ground
enemy impact.

Engelkes T(1), Morriën E, Verhoeven KJ, Bezemer TM, Biere A, Harvey JA, McIntyre 
LM, Tamis WL, van der Putten WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Multitrophic Interactions, Netherlands Institute of Ecology
(NIOO-KNAW), PO Box 40, 6666 ZG Heteren, The Netherlands.

Many species are currently moving to higher latitudes and altitudes. However,
little is known about the factors that influence the future performance of
range-expanding species in their new habitats. Here we show that range-expanding 
plant species from a riverine area were better defended against shoot and root
enemies than were related native plant species growing in the same area. We grew 
fifteen plant species with and without non-coevolved polyphagous locusts and
cosmopolitan, polyphagous aphids. Contrary to our expectations, the locusts
performed more poorly on the range-expanding plant species than on the congeneric
native plant species, whereas the aphids showed no difference. The shoot
herbivores reduced the biomass of the native plants more than they did that of
the congeneric range expanders. Also, the range-expanding plants developed fewer 
pathogenic effects in their root-zone soil than did the related native species.
Current predictions forecast biodiversity loss due to limitations in the ability 
of species to adjust to climate warming conditions in their range. Our results
strongly suggest that the plants that shift ranges towards higher latitudes and
altitudes may include potential invaders, as the successful range expanders may
experience less control by above-ground or below-ground enemies than the natives.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07474 
PMID: 19020504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):971-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07449. Epub 2008 Nov 16.

Suppression of Myc oncogenic activity by ribosomal protein haploinsufficiency.

Barna M(1), Pusic A, Zollo O, Costa M, Kondrashov N, Rego E, Rao PH, Ruggero D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Biophysics, University of California San
Francisco, Rock Hall Room 384C, 1550 Fourth Street, San Francisco, California
94158-2517, USA. maria.barna@ucsf.edu

The Myc oncogene regulates the expression of several components of the protein
synthetic machinery, including ribosomal proteins, initiation factors of
translation, RNA polymerase III and ribosomal DNA. Whether and how increasing the
cellular protein synthesis capacity affects the multistep process leading to
cancer remains to be addressed. Here we use ribosomal protein heterozygote mice
as a genetic tool to restore increased protein synthesis in Emu-Myc/+ transgenic 
mice to normal levels, and show that the oncogenic potential of Myc in this
context is suppressed. Our findings demonstrate that the ability of Myc to
increase protein synthesis directly augments cell size and is sufficient to
accelerate cell cycle progression independently of known cell cycle targets
transcriptionally regulated by Myc. In addition, when protein synthesis is
restored to normal levels, Myc-overexpressing precancerous cells are more
efficiently eliminated by programmed cell death. Our findings reveal a new
mechanism that links increases in general protein synthesis rates downstream of
an oncogenic signal to a specific molecular impairment in the modality of
translation initiation used to regulate the expression of selective messenger
RNAs. We show that an aberrant increase in cap-dependent translation downstream
of Myc hyperactivation specifically impairs the translational switch to internal 
ribosomal entry site (IRES)-dependent translation that is required for accurate
mitotic progression. Failure of this translational switch results in reduced
mitotic-specific expression of the endogenous IRES-dependent form of Cdk11 (also 
known as Cdc2l and PITSLRE), which leads to cytokinesis defects and is associated
with increased centrosome numbers and genome instability in Emu-Myc/+ mice. When 
accurate translational control is re-established in Emu-Myc/+ mice, genome
instability is suppressed. Our findings demonstrate how perturbations in
translational control provide a highly specific outcome for gene expression,
genome stability and cancer initiation that have important implications for
understanding the molecular mechanism of cancer formation at the post-genomic
level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07449 
PMCID: PMC2880952
PMID: 19011615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):989-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07468. Epub 2008 Nov 16.

Structural recognition and functional activation of FcgammaR by innate
pentraxins.

Lu J(1), Marnell LL, Marjon KD, Mold C, Du Clos TW, Sun PD.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Immunology Section, Laboratory of Immunogenetics, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA.

Pentraxins are a family of ancient innate immune mediators conserved throughout
evolution. The classical pentraxins include serum amyloid P component (SAP) and
C-reactive protein, which are two of the acute-phase proteins synthesized in
response to infection. Both recognize microbial pathogens and activate the
classical complement pathway through C1q (refs 3 and 4). More recently, members
of the pentraxin family were found to interact with cell-surface Fcgamma
receptors (FcgammaR) and activate leukocyte-mediated phagocytosis. Here we
describe the structural mechanism for pentraxin's binding to FcgammaR and its
functional activation of FcgammaR-mediated phagocytosis and cytokine secretion.
The complex structure between human SAP and FcgammaRIIa reveals a diagonally
bound receptor on each SAP pentamer with both D1 and D2 domains of the receptor
contacting the ridge helices from two SAP subunits. The 1:1 stoichiometry between
SAP and FcgammaRIIa infers the requirement for multivalent pathogen binding for
receptor aggregation. Mutational and binding studies show that pentraxins are
diverse in their binding specificity for FcgammaR isoforms but conserved in their
recognition structure. The shared binding site for SAP and IgG results in
competition for FcgammaR binding and the inhibition of immune-complex-mediated
phagocytosis by soluble pentraxins. These results establish antibody-like
functions for pentraxins in the FcgammaR pathway, suggest an evolutionary overlap
between the innate and adaptive immune systems, and have new therapeutic
implications for autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07468 
PMCID: PMC2688732
PMID: 19011614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):949-51. doi: 10.1038/nature07463. Epub 2008 Nov 16.

Low conservation of gene content in the Drosophila Y chromosome.

Koerich LB(1), Wang X, Clark AG, Carvalho AB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Caixa Postal
68011, CEP 21944-970, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Chromosomal organization is sufficiently evolutionarily stable that large
syntenic blocks of genes can be recognized even between species as distantly
related as mammals and puffer fish (450 million years (Myr) of divergence). In
Diptera, the gene content of the X chromosome and the autosomes is well
conserved: in Drosophila more than 95% of the genes have remained on the same
chromosome arm in the 12 sequenced species (63 Myr of divergence, traversing 400 
Myr of evolution), and the same linkage groups are clearly recognizable in
mosquito genomes (260 Myr of divergence). Here we investigate the conservation of
Y-linked gene content among the 12 sequenced Drosophila species. We found that
only a quarter of the Drosophila melanogaster Y-linked genes (3 out of 12) are
Y-linked in all sequenced species, and that most of them (7 out of 12) were
acquired less than 63 Myr ago. Hence, whereas the organization of other
Drosophila chromosomes traces back to the common ancestor with mosquitoes, the
gene content of the D. melanogaster Y chromosome is much younger. Gene losses are
known to have an important role in the evolution of Y chromosomes, and we indeed 
found two such cases. However, the rate of gene gain in the Drosophila Y
chromosomes investigated is 10.9 times higher than the rate of gene loss (95%
confidence interval: 2.3-52.5), indicating a clear tendency of the Y chromosomes 
to increase in gene content. In contrast with the mammalian Y chromosome, gene
gains have a prominent role in the evolution of the Drosophila Y chromosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07463 
PMCID: PMC2713029
PMID: 19011613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):933-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07594. Epub 2008 Nov 16.

Highly efficient molybdenum-based catalysts for enantioselective alkene
metathesis.

Malcolmson SJ(1), Meek SJ, Sattely ES, Schrock RR, Hoveyda AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Merkert Chemistry Center, Boston College, Chestnut
Hill, Massachusetts 02467, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):883-5.

Discovery of efficient catalysts is one of the most compelling objectives of
modern chemistry. Chiral catalysts are in particularly high demand, as they
facilitate synthesis of enantiomerically enriched small molecules that are
critical to developments in medicine, biology and materials science. Especially
noteworthy are catalysts that promote-with otherwise inaccessible efficiency and 
selectivity levels-reactions demonstrated to be of great utility in chemical
synthesis. Here we report a class of chiral catalysts that initiate alkene
metathesis with very high efficiency and enantioselectivity. Such attributes
arise from structural fluxionality of the chiral catalysts and the central role
that enhanced electronic factors have in the catalytic cycle. The new catalysts
have a stereogenic metal centre and carry only monodentate ligands; the
molybdenum-based complexes are prepared stereoselectively by a ligand exchange
process involving an enantiomerically pure aryloxide, a class of ligands scarcely
used in enantioselective catalysis. We demonstrate the application of the new
catalysts in an enantioselective synthesis of the Aspidosperma alkaloid,
quebrachamine, through an alkene metathesis reaction that cannot be promoted by
any of the previously reported chiral catalysts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07594 
PMCID: PMC2663850
PMID: 19011612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):985-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07444. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

X-ray structure of NS1 from a highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza virus.

Bornholdt ZA(1), Prasad BV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine,
One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

The recent emergence of highly pathogenic avian (H5N1) influenza viruses, their
epizootic and panzootic nature, and their association with lethal human
infections have raised significant global health concerns. Several studies have
underlined the importance of non-structural protein NS1 in the increased
pathogenicity and virulence of these strains. NS1, which consists of two
domains-a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) binding domain and the effector domain,
separated through a linker-is an antagonist of antiviral type-I interferon
response in the host. Here we report the X-ray structure of the full-length NS1
from an H5N1 strain (A/Vietnam/1203/2004) that was associated with 60% of human
deaths in an outbreak in Vietnam. Compared to the individually determined
structures of the RNA binding domain and the effector domain from non-H5N1
strains, the RNA binding domain within H5N1 NS1 exhibits modest structural
changes, while the H5N1 effector domain shows significant alteration,
particularly in the dimeric interface. Although both domains in the full-length
NS1 individually participate in dimeric interactions, an unexpected finding is
that these interactions result in the formation of a chain of NS1 molecules
instead of distinct dimeric units. Three such chains in the crystal interact with
one another extensively to form a tubular organization of similar dimensions to
that observed in the cryo-electron microscopy images of NS1 in the presence of
dsRNA. The tubular oligomeric organization of NS1, in which residues implicated
in dsRNA binding face a 20-A-wide central tunnel, provides a plausible mechanism 
for how NS1 sequesters varying lengths of dsRNA, to counter cellular antiviral
dsRNA response pathways, while simultaneously interacting with other cellular
ligands during an infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07444 
PMCID: PMC2798118
PMID: 18987632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):967-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07459.

G protein Galphai functions immediately downstream of Smoothened in Hedgehog
signalling.

Ogden SK(1), Fei DL, Schilling NS, Ahmed YF, Hwa J, Robbins DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, 
New Hampshire 03755, USA.

The hedgehog (Hh) signalling pathway has an evolutionarily conserved role in
patterning fields of cells during metazoan development, and is inappropriately
activated in cancer. Hh pathway activity is absolutely dependent on signalling by
the seven-transmembrane protein smoothened (Smo), which is regulated by the Hh
receptor patched (Ptc). Smo signals to an intracellular multi-protein complex
containing the Kinesin related protein Costal2 (Cos2), the protein kinase Fused
(Fu) and the transcription factor Cubitus interruptus (Ci). In the absence of Hh,
this complex regulates the cleavage of full-length Ci to a truncated repressor
protein, Ci75, in a process that is dependent on the proteasome and priming
phosphorylations by Protein kinase A (PKA). Binding of Hh to Ptc blocks
Ptc-mediated Smo inhibition, allowing Smo to signal to the intracellular
components to attenuate Ci cleavage. Because of its homology with the Frizzled
family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), a likely candidate for an immediate
Smo effector would be a heterotrimeric G protein. However, the role that G
proteins may have in Hh signal transduction is unclear and quite controversial,
which has led to widespread speculation that Smo signals through a variety of
novel G-protein-independent mechanisms. Here we present in vitro and in vivo
evidence in Drosophila that Smo activates a G protein to modulate intracellular
cyclic AMP levels in response to Hh. Our results demonstrate that Smo functions
as a canonical GPCR, which signals through Galphai to regulate Hh pathway
activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07459 
PMCID: PMC2744466
PMID: 18987629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):962-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07409. Epub 2008 Oct 26.

Generation of cell polarity in plants links endocytosis, auxin distribution and
cell fate decisions.

Dhonukshe P(1), Tanaka H, Goh T, Ebine K, Mähönen AP, Prasad K, Blilou I, Geldner
N, Xu J, Uemura T, Chory J, Ueda T, Nakano A, Scheres B, Friml J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Padualaan 8,
3584 CH, Utrecht, The Netherlands. P.B.Dhonukshe@uu.nl

Retraction in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):370.

Dynamically polarized membrane proteins define different cell boundaries and have
an important role in intercellular communication-a vital feature of multicellular
development. Efflux carriers for the signalling molecule auxin from the PIN
family are landmarks of cell polarity in plants and have a crucial involvement in
auxin distribution-dependent development including embryo patterning,
organogenesis and tropisms. Polar PIN localization determines the direction of
intercellular auxin flow, yet the mechanisms generating PIN polarity remain
unclear. Here we identify an endocytosis-dependent mechanism of PIN polarity
generation and analyse its developmental implications. Real-time PIN tracking
showed that after synthesis, PINs are initially delivered to the plasma membrane 
in a non-polar manner and their polarity is established by subsequent endocytic
recycling. Interference with PIN endocytosis either by auxin or by manipulation
of the Arabidopsis Rab5 GTPase pathway prevents PIN polarization. Failure of PIN 
polarization transiently alters asymmetric auxin distribution during
embryogenesis and increases the local auxin response in apical embryo regions.
This results in ectopic expression of auxin pathway-associated root-forming
master regulators in embryonic leaves and promotes homeotic transformation of
leaves to roots. Our results indicate a two-step mechanism for the generation of 
PIN polar localization and the essential role of endocytosis in this process. It 
also highlights the link between endocytosis-dependent polarity of individual
cells and auxin distribution-dependent cell fate establishment for multicellular 
patterning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07409 
PMCID: PMC2692841
PMID: 18953331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 2008 Dec 18;456(7224):952-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07417. Epub 2008 Oct 22.

Experience with moving visual stimuli drives the early development of cortical
direction selectivity.

Li Y(1), Van Hooser SD, Mazurek M, White LE, Fitzpatrick D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina 27710, USA.

The onset of vision occurs when neural circuits in the visual cortex are
immature, lacking both the full complement of connections and the response
selectivity that defines functional maturity. Direction-selective responses are
particularly vulnerable to the effects of early visual deprivation, but it
remains unclear how stimulus-driven neural activity guides the emergence of
cortical direction selectivity. Here we report observations from a motion
training protocol that allowed us to monitor the impact of experience on the
development of direction-selective responses in visually naive ferrets. Using
intrinsic signal imaging techniques, we found that training with a single axis of
motion induced the rapid emergence of direction columns that were confined to
cortical regions preferentially activated by the training stimulus. Using
two-photon calcium imaging techniques, we found that single neurons in visually
naive animals exhibited weak directional biases and lacked the strong local
coherence in the spatial organization of direction preference that was evident in
mature animals. Training with a moving stimulus, but not with a flashed stimulus,
strengthened the direction-selective responses of individual neurons and
preferentially reversed the direction biases of neurons that deviated from their 
neighbours. Both effects contributed to an increase in local coherence. We
conclude that early experience with moving visual stimuli drives the rapid
emergence of direction-selective responses in the visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07417 
PMCID: PMC2644578
PMID: 18946471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):783-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07478.

Strain accommodation by slow slip and dyking in a youthful continental rift, East
Africa.

Calais E(1), d'Oreye N, Albaric J, Deschamps A, Delvaux D, Déverchère J, Ebinger 
C, Ferdinand RW, Kervyn F, Macheyeki AS, Oyen A, Perrot J, Saria E, Smets B,
Stamps DS, Wauthier C.

Author information: 
(1)Purdue University, Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, West
Lafayette, Indiana 47906, USA. ecalais@purdue.edu

Continental rifts begin and develop through repeated episodes of faulting and
magmatism, but strain partitioning between faulting and magmatism during discrete
rifting episodes remains poorly documented. In highly evolved rifts, tensile
stresses from far-field plate motions accumulate over decades before being
released during relatively short time intervals by faulting and magmatic
intrusions. These rifting crises are rarely observed in thick lithosphere during 
the initial stages of rifting. Here we show that most of the strain during the
July-August 2007 seismic crisis in the weakly extended Natron rift, Tanzania, was
released aseismically. Deformation was achieved by slow slip on a normal fault
that promoted subsequent dyke intrusion by stress unclamping. This event provides
compelling evidence for strain accommodation by magma intrusion, in addition to
slip along normal faults, during the initial stages of continental rifting and
before significant crustal thinning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07478 
PMID: 19079058 


84. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):778-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07592.

Enantiodivergent conversion of chiral secondary alcohols into tertiary alcohols.

Stymiest JL(1), Bagutski V, French RM, Aggarwal VK.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock's Close, Bristol, BS8 1TS,
UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):711-2.

From receptors in the nose to supramolecular biopolymers, nature shows a
remarkable degree of specificity in the recognition of chiral molecules,
resulting in the mirror image arrangements of the two forms eliciting quite
different biological responses. It is thus critically important that during a
chemical synthesis of chiral molecules only one of the two three-dimensional
arrangements is created. Although certain classes of chiral molecules (for
example secondary alcohols) are now easy to make selectively in the single mirror
image form, one class-those containing quaternary stereogenic centres (a carbon
atom with four different non-hydrogen substituents)-remains a great challenge.
Here we present a general solution to this problem which takes easily obtainable 
secondary alcohols in their single mirror image form and in a two-step sequence
converts them into tertiary alcohols (quaternary stereogenic centres). The
overall process involves removing the hydrogen atom (attached to carbon) of the
secondary alcohol and effectively replacing it with an alkyl, alkenyl or aryl
group. Furthermore, starting from a single mirror image form of the secondary
alcohol, either mirror image form of the tertiary alcohol can be made with high
levels of stereocontrol. Thus, a broad range of tertiary alcohols can now be
easily made by this method with very high levels of selectivity. We expect that
this methodology could find widespread application, as the intermediate tertiary 
boronic esters can potentially be converted into a range of functional groups
with retention of configuration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07592 
PMID: 19079057 


85. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):773-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07607.

A solid-state light-matter interface at the single-photon level.

de Riedmatten H(1), Afzelius M, Staudt MU, Simon C, Gisin N.

Author information: 
(1)Group of Applied Physics, University of Geneva, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.
hugues.deriedmatten@unige.ch

Coherent and reversible mapping of quantum information between light and matter
is an important experimental challenge in quantum information science. In
particular, it is an essential requirement for the implementation of quantum
networks and quantum repeaters. So far, quantum interfaces between light and
atoms have been demonstrated with atomic gases, and with single trapped atoms in 
cavities. Here we demonstrate the coherent and reversible mapping of a light
field with less than one photon per pulse onto an ensemble of approximately 10(7)
atoms naturally trapped in a solid. This is achieved by coherently absorbing the 
light field in a suitably prepared solid-state atomic medium. The state of the
light is mapped onto collective atomic excitations at an optical transition and
stored for a pre-determined time of up to 1 mus before being released in a
well-defined spatio-temporal mode as a result of a collective interference. The
coherence of the process is verified by performing an interference experiment
with two stored weak pulses with a variable phase relation. Visibilities of more 
than 95 per cent are obtained, demonstrating the high coherence of the mapping
process at the single-photon level. In addition, we show experimentally that our 
interface makes it possible to store and retrieve light fields in multiple
temporal modes. Our results open the way to multimode solid-state quantum
memories as a promising alternative to atomic gases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07607 
PMID: 19079056 


86. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):770-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07571.

Strong ocean tidal flow and heating on moons of the outer planets.

Tyler RH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Physics Laboratory and Department of Earth and Space Sciences,
University of Washington, 1013 NE 40th Street, Seattle, Washington 98105, USA.
tyler@apl.washington.edu

Data from recent space missions have added strong support for the idea that there
are liquid oceans on several moons of the outer planets, with Jupiter's moon
Europa having received the most attention. But given the extremely cold surface
temperatures and meagre radiogenic heat sources of these moons, it is still
unclear how these oceans remain liquid. The prevailing conjecture is that these
oceans are heated by tidal forces that flex the solid moon (rock plus ice) during
its eccentric orbit, and that this heat entering the ocean does not rapidly
escape because of the insulating layer of ice over the ocean surface. Here,
however, I describe strong tidal dissipation (and heating) in the liquid oceans; 
I show that a subdominant and previously unconsidered tidal force due to
obliquity (axial tilt of the moon with respect to its orbital plane) has the
right form and frequency to resonantly excite large-amplitude Rossby waves in
these oceans. In the specific case of Europa, the minimum kinetic energy of the
flow associated with this resonance (7.3 x 10(18) J) is two thousand times larger
than that of the flow excited by the dominant tidal forces, and dissipation of
this energy seems large enough to be a primary ocean heat source.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07571 
PMID: 19079055 


87. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):767-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07574.

Strong water absorption in the dayside emission spectrum of the planet HD
189733b.

Grillmair CJ(1), Burrows A, Charbonneau D, Armus L, Stauffer J, Meadows V, van
Cleve J, von Braun K, Levine D.

Author information: 
(1)Spitzer Science Center, 1200 East California Boulevard, Pasadena, California
91125, USA. carl@ipac.caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):714-5.

Recent observations of the extrasolar planet HD 189733b did not reveal the
presence of water in the emission spectrum of the planet. Yet models of such
'hot-Jupiter' planets predict an abundance of atmospheric water vapour.
Validating and constraining these models is crucial to understanding the physics 
and chemistry of planetary atmospheres in extreme environments. Indications of
the presence of water in the atmosphere of HD 189733b have recently been found in
transmission spectra, where the planet's atmosphere selectively absorbs the light
of the parent star, and in broadband photometry. Here we report the detection of 
strong water absorption in a high-signal-to-noise, mid-infrared emission spectrum
of the planet itself. We find both a strong downturn in the flux ratio below 10
microm and discrete spectral features that are characteristic of strong
absorption by water vapour. The differences between these and previous
observations are significant and admit the possibility that predicted
planetary-scale dynamical weather structures may alter the emission spectrum over
time. Models that match the observed spectrum and the broadband photometry
suggest that heat redistribution from the dayside to the nightside is weak.
Reconciling this with the high nightside temperature will require a better
understanding of atmospheric circulation or possible additional energy sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07574 
PMID: 19079054 


88. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):755-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07513.

Negative feedback that improves information transmission in yeast signalling.

Yu RC(1), Pesce CG, Colman-Lerner A, Lok L, Pincus D, Serra E, Holl M, Benjamin
K, Gordon A, Brent R.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Sciences Institute, 2168 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, California
94704, USA. ryu@molsci.org

Haploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast cells use a prototypic cell signalling
system to transmit information about the extracellular concentration of mating
pheromone secreted by potential mating partners. The ability of cells to respond 
distinguishably to different pheromone concentrations depends on how much
information about pheromone concentration the system can transmit. Here we show
that the mitogen-activated protein kinase Fus3 mediates fast-acting negative
feedback that adjusts the dose response of the downstream system response to
match the dose response of receptor-ligand binding. This 'dose-response
alignment', defined by a linear relationship between receptor occupancy and
downstream response, can improve the fidelity of information transmission by
making downstream responses corresponding to different receptor occupancies more 
distinguishable and reducing amplification of stochastic noise during signal
transmission. We also show that one target of the feedback is a previously
uncharacterized signal-promoting function of the regulator of G-protein
signalling protein Sst2. Our work suggests that negative feedback is a general
mechanism used in signalling systems to align dose responses and thereby increase
the fidelity of information transmission.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07513 
PMCID: PMC2716709
PMID: 19079053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):750-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07585.

Antigenic variation in Giardia lamblia is regulated by RNA interference.

Prucca CG(1), Slavin I, Quiroga R, Elías EV, Rivero FD, Saura A, Carranza PG,
Luján HD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular, Facultad de Medicina,
Universidad Católica de Córdoba, Córdoba X5004ASK, Argentina.

Giardia lamblia (also called Giardia intestinalis) is one of the most common
intestinal parasites of humans. To evade the host's immune response, Giardia
undergoes antigenic variation-a process that allows the parasite to develop
chronic and recurrent infections. From a repertoire of approximately 190
variant-specific surface protein (VSP)-coding genes, Giardia expresses only one
VSP on the surface of each parasite at a particular time, but spontaneously
switches to a different VSP by unknown mechanisms. Here we show that regulation
of VSP expression involves a system comprising RNA-dependent RNA polymerase,
Dicer and Argonaute, known components of the RNA interference machinery. Clones
expressing a single surface antigen efficiently transcribe several VSP genes but 
only accumulate transcripts encoding the VSP to be expressed. Detection of
antisense RNAs corresponding to the silenced VSP genes and small RNAs from the
silenced but not for the expressed vsp implicate the RNA interference pathway in 
antigenic variation. Remarkably, silencing of Dicer and RNA-dependent RNA
polymerase leads to a change from single to multiple VSP expression in individual
parasites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07585 
PMID: 19079052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):738-44. doi: 10.1038/nature07633.

Reverse engineering the genotype-phenotype map with natural genetic variation.

Rockman MV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Biology, New York
University, 100 Washington Square East, New York, New York 10003, USA.
mrockman@nyu.edu

The genetic variation that occurs naturally in a population is a powerful
resource for studying how genotype affects phenotype. Each allele is a
perturbation of the biological system, and genetic crosses, through the processes
of recombination and segregation, randomize the distribution of these alleles
among the progeny of a cross. The randomized genetic perturbations affect traits 
directly and indirectly, and the similarities and differences between traits in
their responses to common perturbations allow inferences about whether variation 
in a trait is a cause of a phenotype (such as disease) or whether the trait
variation is, instead, an effect of that phenotype. It is then possible to use
this information about causes and effects to build models of probabilistic
'causal networks'. These networks are beginning to define the outlines of the
'genotype-phenotype map'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07633 
PMID: 19079051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):732-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07632.

A global network for investigating the genomic epidemiology of malaria.

Malaria Genomic Epidemiology Network(1).

Collaborators: Achidi EA, Agbenyega T, Allen S, Amodu O, Bojang K, Conway D,
Corran P, Deloukas P, Djimde A, Dolo A, Doumbo O, Drakeley C, Duffy P, Dunstan S,
Evans J, Farrar J, Fernando D, Tran TH, Horstmann R, Ibrahim M, Karunaweera N,
Kokwaro G, Koram K, Kwiatkowski D, Lemnge M, Makani J, Marsh K, Michon P, Modiano
D, Molyneux ME, Mueller I, Mutabingwa T, Parker M, Peshu N, Plowe C, Puijalon O, 
Ragoussis J, Reeder J, Reyburn H, Riley E, Rogers J, Sakuntabhai A, Singhasivanon
P, Sirima S, Sirugo G, Tall A, Taylor T, Thera M, Troye-Blomberg M, Williams T,
Wilson M, Amenga-Etego L, Apinjoh TO, Bougouma E, Dewasurendra R, Diakite M,
Enimil A, Hussein A, Ishengoma D, Jallow M, Lin E, Ly A, Mangano VD, Manjurano A,
Manning L, Ndila CM, Nyirongo V, Oluoch T, Nguyen TN, Suriyaphol P, Toure O,
Rockett KA, Vanderwal A, Clark T, Parker M, Wrigley R, Kwiatkowski D, Alcock D,
Auburn S, Barnwell D, Bull S, Campino S, deVries J, Elzein A, Evans J,
Fitzpatrick K, Ghansah A, Green A, Hart L, Hilton E, Hubbart C, Hughes C,
Jeffreys AE, Kivinen K, MacInnis B, Manske M, Maslen G, McCreight M, Mendy A,
Moyes C, Nyika A, Potter C, Risley P, Rowlands K, SanJoaquin M, Small K,
Somaskantharajah E, Stevens M, Teo Y, Watson R, Agbenyega T, Carucci D, Cook K,
Doyle A, Duombo O, Farrar J, Gottlieb M, Marsh K, Puijalon O, Taylor T,
Kwiatkowski D.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Buea, PO Box 63, Buea, South West Province, Cameroon.

Large-scale studies of genomic variation could assist efforts to eliminate
malaria. But there are scientific, ethical and practical challenges to carrying
out such studies in developing countries, where the burden of disease is
greatest. The Malaria Genomic Epidemiology Network (MalariaGEN) is now working to
overcome these obstacles, using a consortial approach that brings together
researchers from 21 countries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07632 
PMCID: PMC3758999
PMID: 19079050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):728-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07631.

Progress and challenges in genome-wide association studies in humans.

Donnelly P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt
Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK. peter.donnelly@well.ox.ac.uk

After more than a decade of hope and hype, researchers are finally making inroads
into understanding the genetic basis of many common human diseases. The use of
genome-wide association studies has broken the logjam, enabling genetic variants 
at specific loci to be associated with particular diseases. Genetic association
data are now providing new routes to understanding the aetiology of disease, as
well as new footholds on the long and difficult path to better treatment and
disease prevention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07631 
PMID: 19079049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):724-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07630.

Applying mouse complex-trait resources to behavioural genetics.

Flint J(1), Mott R.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.
jf@well.ox.ac.uk

Studies of the genetic basis of behaviour in mice are at a turning point. Soon,
new resources will enable the behavioural function of all genes to be tested and 
the networks of genes, messenger RNAs and proteins involved in a particular
behaviour to be identified. Using these resources, scientists will be able to
analyse mouse behaviour at an unprecedented level of detail. Interpreting the new
data, however, will require a shift in focus from gene-based approaches to
network-based approaches.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07630 
PMID: 19079048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):720-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07629.

Next-generation genetics in plants.

Nordborg M(1), Weigel D.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Computational Biology, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089, USA. magnus@usc.edu

Natural variation presents one of the fundamental challenges of modern biology.
Soon, the genome sequences of thousands of individuals will be known for each of 
several species. But how does the genotypic variation that will be observed among
these individuals translate into phenotypic variation? Plants are in many ways
ideal for addressing this question, and resources that are unmatched, except in
humans, have now been developed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07629 
PMID: 19079047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):E5-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07646.

FCA does not bind abscisic acid.

Risk JM(1), Macknight RC, Day CL.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, University of Otago, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand.
catherine.day@otago.ac.nz.

Comment on
    Nature. 2006 Jan 19;439(7074):290-4.

The RNA-binding protein FCA promotes flowering in Arabidopsis. Razem et al.
reported that FCA is also a receptor for the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA).
However, we find that FCA does not bind ABA, suggesting that the quality of the
proteins assayed and the sensitivity of the ABA-binding assay have led Razem et
al. to erroneous conclusions. Because similar assays have been used to
characterize other ABA receptors, our results indicate that the ABA-binding
properties of these proteins should be carefully re-evaluated and that
alternative ABA receptors are likely to be discovered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07646 
PMID: 19078995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):788-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07535. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Major gradients in putatively nitrifying and non-nitrifying Archaea in the deep
North Atlantic.

Agogué H(1), Brink M, Dinasquet J, Herndl GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Oceanography, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea
Research (Royal NIOZ), PO Box 59, 1790 AB Den Burg, Texel, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):500.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):712-4.

Aerobic nitrification of ammonia to nitrite and nitrate is a key process in the
oceanic nitrogen cycling mediated by prokaryotes. Apart from Bacteria belonging
to the beta- and gamma-Proteobacteria involved in the first nitrification step,
Crenarchaeota have recently been recognized as main drivers of the oxidation of
ammonia to nitrite in soil as well as in the ocean, as indicated by the dominance
of archaeal ammonia monooxygenase (amoA) genes over bacterial amoA. Evidence is
accumulating that archaeal amoA genes are common in a wide range of marine
systems. Essentially, all these reports focused on surface and mesopelagic
(200-1,000 m depth) waters, where ammonia concentrations are higher than in
waters below 1,000 m depth. However, Crenarchaeota are also abundant in the water
column below 1,000 m, where ammonia concentrations are extremely low. Here we
show that, throughout the North Atlantic Ocean, the abundance of archaeal amoA
genes decreases markedly from subsurface waters to 4,000 m depth, and from
subpolar to equatorial deep waters, leading to pronounced vertical and
latitudinal gradients in the ratio of archaeal amoA to crenarchaeal 16S ribosomal
RNA (rRNA) genes. The lack of significant copy numbers of amoA genes and the very
low fixation rates of dark carbon dioxide in the bathypelagic North Atlantic
suggest that most bathypelagic Crenarchaeota are not autotrophic ammonia
oxidizers: most likely, they utilize organic matter and hence live
heterotrophically.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07535 
PMID: 19037244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):762-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07527. Epub 2008 Nov 19.

The replisome uses mRNA as a primer after colliding with RNA polymerase.

Pomerantz RT(1), O'Donnell M.

Author information: 
(1)The Rockefeller University, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 1230 York Avenue,
New York, New York 10021, USA.

Replication forks are impeded by DNA damage and protein-nucleic acid complexes
such as transcribing RNA polymerase. For example, head-on collision of the
replisome with RNA polymerase results in replication fork arrest. However,
co-directional collision of the replisome with RNA polymerase has little or no
effect on fork progression. Here we examine co-directional collisions between a
replisome and RNA polymerase in vitro. We show that the Escherichia coli
replisome uses the RNA transcript as a primer to continue leading-strand
synthesis after the collision with RNA polymerase that is displaced from the DNA.
This action results in a discontinuity in the leading strand, yet the replisome
remains intact and bound to DNA during the entire process. These findings
underscore the notable plasticity by which the replisome operates to circumvent
obstacles in its path and may explain why the leading strand is synthesized
discontinuously in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07527 
PMCID: PMC2605185
PMID: 19020502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):814-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07445. Epub 2008 Nov 9.

Deletion of vascular endothelial growth factor in myeloid cells accelerates
tumorigenesis.

Stockmann C(1), Doedens A, Weidemann A, Zhang N, Takeda N, Greenberg JI, Cheresh 
DA, Johnson RS.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Section, Division of Biological Sciences, Moores Cancer
Center, University of California, San Diego, San Diego, California 92093, USA.

Angiogenesis and the development of a vascular network are required for tumour
progression, and they involve the release of angiogenic factors, including
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF-A), from both malignant and stromal cell
types. Infiltration by cells of the myeloid lineage is a hallmark of many
tumours, and in many cases the macrophages in these infiltrates express VEGF-A.
Here we show that the deletion of inflammatory-cell-derived VEGF-A attenuates the
formation of a typical high-density vessel network, thus blocking the angiogenic 
switch in solid tumours in mice. Vasculature in tumours lacking
myeloid-cell-derived VEGF-A was less tortuous, with increased pericyte coverage
and decreased vessel length, indicating vascular normalization. In addition, loss
of myeloid-derived VEGF-A decreases the phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2
(VEGFR2) in tumours, even though overall VEGF-A levels in the tumours are
unaffected. However, deletion of myeloid-cell VEGF-A resulted in an accelerated
tumour progression in multiple subcutaneous isograft models and an autochthonous 
transgenic model of mammary tumorigenesis, with less overall tumour cell death
and decreased tumour hypoxia. Furthermore, loss of myeloid-cell VEGF-A increased 
the susceptibility of tumours to chemotherapeutic cytotoxicity. This shows that
myeloid-derived VEGF-A is essential for the tumorigenic alteration of vasculature
and signalling to VEGFR2, and that these changes act to retard, not promote,
tumour progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07445 
PMCID: PMC3103772
PMID: 18997773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):809-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07424. Epub 2008 Nov 9.

A role for VEGF as a negative regulator of pericyte function and vessel
maturation.

Greenberg JI(1), Shields DJ, Barillas SG, Acevedo LM, Murphy E, Huang J, Scheppke
L, Stockmann C, Johnson RS, Angle N, Cheresh DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Moore's UCSD Cancer Center, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1168.

Angiogenesis does not only depend on endothelial cell invasion and proliferation:
it also requires pericyte coverage of vascular sprouts for vessel stabilization. 
These processes are coordinated by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and 
platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) through their cognate receptors on
endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), respectively. PDGF
induces neovascularization by priming VSMCs/pericytes to release pro-angiogenic
mediators. Although VEGF directly stimulates endothelial cell proliferation and
migration, its role in pericyte biology is less clear. Here we define a role for 
VEGF as an inhibitor of neovascularization on the basis of its capacity to
disrupt VSMC function. Specifically, under conditions of PDGF-mediated
angiogenesis, VEGF ablates pericyte coverage of nascent vascular sprouts, leading
to vessel destabilization. At the molecular level, VEGF-mediated activation of
VEGF-R2 suppresses PDGF-Rbeta signalling in VSMCs through the assembly of a
previously undescribed receptor complex consisting of PDGF-Rbeta and VEGF-R2.
Inhibition of VEGF-R2 not only prevents assembly of this receptor complex but
also restores angiogenesis in tissues exposed to both VEGF and PDGF. Finally,
genetic deletion of tumour cell VEGF disrupts PDGF-Rbeta/VEGF-R2 complex
formation and increases tumour vessel maturation. These findings underscore the
importance of VSMCs/pericytes in neovascularization and reveal a dichotomous role
for VEGF and VEGF-R2 signalling as both a promoter of endothelial cell function
and a negative regulator of VSMCs and vessel maturation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07424 
PMCID: PMC2605188
PMID: 18997771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):800-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07407. Epub 2008 Nov 2.

Temporal identity in axonal target layer recognition.

Petrovic M(1), Hummel T.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Neurobiologie, Universität Münster, Badestrasse 9, D-48149
Münster, Germany.

The segregation of axon and dendrite projections into distinct synaptic layers is
a fundamental principle of nervous system organization and the structural basis
for information processing in the brain. Layer-specific recognition molecules
that allow projecting neurons to stabilize transient contacts and initiate
synaptogenesis have been identified. However, most of the neuronal cell-surface
molecules critical for layer organization are expressed broadly in the developing
nervous system, raising the question of how these so-called permissive adhesion
molecules support synaptic specificity. Here we show that the temporal expression
dynamics of the zinc-finger protein sequoia is the major determinant of
Drosophila photoreceptor connectivity into distinct synaptic layers. Neighbouring
R8 and R7 photoreceptors show consecutive peaks of elevated sequoia expression,
which correspond to their sequential target-layer innervation. Loss of sequoia in
R7 leads to a projection switch into the R8 recipient layer, whereas a prolonged 
expression in R8 induces a redirection of their axons into the R7 layer. The
sequoia-induced axon targeting is mediated through the ubiquitously expressed
Cadherin-N cell adhesion molecule. Our data support a model in which recognition 
specificity during synaptic layer formation is generated through a temporally
restricted axonal competence to respond to broadly expressed adhesion molecules. 
Because developing neurons innervating the same target area often project in a
distinct, birth-order-dependent sequence, temporal identity seems to contain
crucial information in generating not only cell type diversity during neuronal
division but also connection diversity of projecting neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07407 
PMID: 18978776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):795-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07419.

Coordinate control of synaptic-layer specificity and rhodopsins in photoreceptor 
neurons.

Morey M(1), Yee SK, Herman T, Nern A, Blanco E, Zipursky SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, David
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.

How neurons make specific synaptic connections is a central question in
neurobiology. The targeting of the Drosophila R7 and R8 photoreceptor axons to
different synaptic layers in the brain provides a model with which to explore the
genetic programs regulating target specificity. In principle this can be
accomplished by cell-type-specific molecules mediating the recognition between
synaptic partners. Alternatively, specificity could also be achieved through
cell-type-specific repression of particular targeting molecules. Here we show
that a key step in the targeting of the R7 neuron is the active repression of the
R8 targeting program. Repression is dependent on NF-YC, a subunit of the NF-Y
(nuclear factor Y) transcription factor. In the absence of NF-YC, R7 axons
terminate in the same layer as R8 axons. Genetic experiments indicate that this
is due solely to the derepression of the R8-specific transcription factor
Senseless (Sens) late in R7 differentiation. Sens is sufficient to control R8
targeting specificity and we demonstrate that Sens directly binds to an
evolutionarily conserved DNA sequence upstream of the start of transcription of
an R8-specific cell-surface protein, Capricious (Caps) that regulates R8 target
specificity. We show that R7 targeting requires the R7-specific transcription
factor Prospero (Pros) in parallel to repression of the R8 targeting pathway by
NF-YC. Previous studies demonstrated that Sens and Pros directly regulate the
expression of specific rhodopsins in R8 and R7. We propose that the use of the
same transcription factors to promote the cell-type-specific expression of
sensory receptors and cell-surface proteins regulating synaptic target
specificity provides a simple and general mechanism for ensuring that
transmission of sensory information is processed by the appropriate specialized
neural circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07419 
PMCID: PMC2727603
PMID: 18978774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):745-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07525. Epub 2008 Oct 29.

Brain metabolism dictates the polarity of astrocyte control over arterioles.

Gordon GR(1), Choi HB, Rungta RL, Ellis-Davies GC, MacVicar BA.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, University of British
Columbia, British Columbia T2N 2B5, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):715-6.

Calcium signalling in astrocytes couples changes in neural activity to
alterations in cerebral blood flow by eliciting vasoconstriction or vasodilation 
of arterioles. However, the mechanism for how these opposite astrocyte influences
provide appropriate changes in vessel tone within an environment that has dynamic
metabolic requirements remains unclear. Here we show that the ability of
astrocytes to induce vasodilations over vasoconstrictions relies on the metabolic
state of the rat brain tissue. When oxygen availability is lowered and astrocyte 
calcium concentration is elevated, astrocyte glycolysis and lactate release are
maximized. External lactate attenuates transporter-mediated uptake from the
extracellular space of prostaglandin E(2), leading to accumulation and subsequent
vasodilation. In conditions of low oxygen concentration extracellular adenosine
also increases, which blocks astrocyte-mediated constriction, facilitating
dilation. These data reveal the role of metabolic substrates in regulating brain 
blood flow and provide a mechanism for differential astrocyte control over
cerebrovascular diameter during different states of brain activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07525 
PMCID: PMC4097022
PMID: 18971930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):804-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07427. Epub 2008 Oct 22.

Generation of a prostate from a single adult stem cell.

Leong KG(1), Wang BE, Johnson L, Gao WQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

The existence of prostate stem cells (PSCs) was first postulated from the
observation that normal prostate regeneration can occur after repeated cycles of 
androgen deprivation and replacement in rodents. Given the critical role of PSCs 
in maintaining prostate tissue integrity and their potential involvement in
prostate tumorigenesis, it is important to define specific markers for normal
PSCs. Several cell-surface markers have been reported to identify candidate PSCs,
including stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1, also known as Ly6a), CD133 (Prom1) and CD44
(refs 3-10). However, many non-PSCs in the mouse prostate also express these
markers and thus identification of a more defined PSC population remains elusive.
Here we identify CD117 (c-kit, stem cell factor receptor) as a new marker of a
rare adult mouse PSC population, and demonstrate that a single stem cell defined 
by the phenotype Lin(-)Sca-1(+)CD133(+)CD44(+)CD117(+) can generate a prostate
after transplantation in vivo. CD117 expression is predominantly localized to the
region of the mouse prostate proximal to the urethra and is upregulated after
castration-induced prostate involution-two characteristics consistent with that
of a PSC marker. CD117(+) PSCs can generate functional, secretion-producing
prostates when transplanted in vivo. Moreover, CD117(+) PSCs have long-term
self-renewal capacity, as evidenced by serial isolation and transplantation in
vivo. Our data establish that single cells in the adult mouse prostate with
multipotent, self-renewal capacity are defined by a
Lin(-)Sca-1(+)CD133(+)CD44(+)CD117(+) phenotype.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07427 
PMID: 18946470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):792-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07395. Epub 2008 Oct 19.

Strong effect of dispersal network structure on ecological dynamics.

Holland MD(1), Hastings A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Policy, University of California,
Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA. mdholland@ucdavis.edu

A central question in ecology with great importance for management, conservation 
and biological control is how changing connectivity affects the persistence and
dynamics of interacting species. Researchers in many disciplines have used large 
systems of coupled oscillators to model the behaviour of a diverse array of
fluctuating systems in nature. In the well-studied regime of weak coupling,
synchronization is favoured by increases in coupling strength and large-scale
network structures (for example 'small worlds') that produce short cuts and
clustering. Here we show that, by contrast, randomizing the structure of
dispersal networks in a model of predators and prey tends to favour asynchrony
and prolonged transient dynamics, with resulting effects on the amplitudes of
population fluctuations. Our results focus on synchronization and dynamics of
clusters in models, and on timescales, more appropriate for ecology, namely
smaller systems with strong interactions outside the weak-coupling regime, rather
than the better-studied cases of large, weakly coupled systems. In these smaller 
systems, the dynamics of transients and the effects of changes in connectivity
can be well understood using a set of methods including numerical reconstructions
of phase dynamics, examinations of cluster formation and the consideration of
important aspects of cyclic dynamics, such as amplitude.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07395 
PMID: 18931656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):819-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07392. Epub 2008 Oct 12.

DNA double-strand breaks activate a multi-functional genetic program in
developing lymphocytes.

Bredemeyer AL(1), Helmink BA, Innes CL, Calderon B, McGinnis LM, Mahowald GK,
Gapud EJ, Walker LM, Collins JB, Weaver BK, Mandik-Nayak L, Schreiber RD, Allen
PM, May MJ, Paules RS, Bassing CH, Sleckman BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

DNA double-strand breaks are generated by genotoxic agents and by cellular
endonucleases as intermediates of several important physiological processes. The 
cellular response to genotoxic DNA breaks includes the activation of
transcriptional programs known primarily to regulate cell-cycle checkpoints and
cell survival. DNA double-strand breaks are generated in all developing
lymphocytes during the assembly of antigen receptor genes, a process that is
essential for normal lymphocyte development. Here we show that in murine
lymphocytes these physiological DNA breaks activate a broad transcriptional
program. This program transcends the canonical DNA double-strand break response
and includes many genes that regulate diverse cellular processes important for
lymphocyte development. Moreover, the expression of several of these genes is
regulated similarly in response to genotoxic DNA damage. Thus, physiological DNA 
double-strand breaks provide cues that can regulate cell-type-specific processes 
not directly involved in maintaining the integrity of the genome, and genotoxic
DNA breaks could disrupt normal cellular functions by corrupting these processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07392 
PMCID: PMC2605662
PMID: 18849970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):653-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07599.

Crystal structure of the ZP-N domain of ZP3 reveals the core fold of animal egg
coats.

Monné M(1), Han L, Schwend T, Burendahl S, Jovine L.

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Hälsovägen 7, 
SE-141 57 Huddinge, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):586-7.

Species-specific recognition between the egg extracellular matrix (zona
pellucida) and sperm is the first, crucial step of mammalian fertilization. Zona 
pellucida filament components ZP3 and ZP2 act as sperm receptors, and mice
lacking either of the corresponding genes produce oocytes without a zona
pellucida and are completely infertile. Like their counterparts in the vitelline 
envelope of non-mammalian eggs and many other secreted eukaryotic proteins, zona 
pellucida subunits polymerize using a 'zona pellucida (ZP) domain' module, whose 
conserved amino-terminal part (ZP-N) was suggested to constitute a domain of its 
own. No atomic structure has been reported for ZP domain proteins, and there is
no structural information on any conserved vertebrate protein that is essential
for fertilization and directly involved in egg-sperm binding. Here we describe
the 2.3 ångström (A) resolution structure of the ZP-N fragment of mouse primary
sperm receptor ZP3. The ZP-N fold defines a new immunoglobulin superfamily
subtype with a beta-sheet extension characterized by an E' strand and an
invariant tyrosine residue implicated in polymerization. The structure strongly
supports the presence of ZP-N repeats within the N-terminal region of ZP2 and
other vertebrate zona pellucida/vitelline envelope proteins, with implications
for overall egg coat architecture, the post-fertilization block to polyspermy and
speciation. Moreover, it provides an important framework for understanding human 
diseases caused by mutations in ZP domain proteins and developing new methods of 
non-hormonal contraception.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07599 
PMID: 19052627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):631-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07572.

Partial rupture of a locked patch of the Sumatra megathrust during the 2007
earthquake sequence.

Konca AO(1), Avouac JP, Sladen A, Meltzner AJ, Sieh K, Fang P, Li Z, Galetzka J, 
Genrich J, Chlieh M, Natawidjaja DH, Bock Y, Fielding EJ, Ji C, Helmberger DV.

Author information: 
(1)Tectonics Observatory, Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

The great Sumatra-Andaman earthquake and tsunami of 2004 was a dramatic reminder 
of the importance of understanding the seismic and tsunami hazards of subduction 
zones. In March 2005, the Sunda megathrust ruptured again, producing an event of 
moment magnitude (M(w)) 8.6 south of the 2004 rupture area, which was the site of
a similar event in 1861 (ref. 6). Concern was then focused on the Mentawai area, 
where large earthquakes had occurred in 1797 (M(w) = 8.8) and 1833 (M(w) = 9.0). 
Two earthquakes, one of M(w) = 8.4 and, twelve hours later, one of M(w) = 7.9,
indeed occurred there on 12 September 2007. Here we show that these earthquakes
ruptured only a fraction of the area ruptured in 1833 and consist of distinct
asperities within a patch of the megathrust that had remained locked in the
interseismic period. This indicates that the same portion of a megathrust can
rupture in different patterns depending on whether asperities break as isolated
seismic events or cooperate to produce a larger rupture. This variability
probably arises from the influence of non-permanent barriers, zones with locally 
lower pre-stress due to the past earthquakes. The stress state of the portion of 
the Sunda megathrust that had ruptured in 1833 and 1797 was probably not adequate
for the development of a single large rupture in 2007. The moment released in
2007 amounts to only a fraction both of that released in 1833 and of the deficit 
of moment that had accumulated as a result of interseismic strain since 1833. The
potential for a large megathrust event in the Mentawai area thus remains large.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07572 
PMID: 19052626 


108. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):628-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07464.

Large tundra methane burst during onset of freezing.

Mastepanov M(1), Sigsgaard C, Dlugokencky EJ, Houweling S, Ström L, Tamstorf MP, 
Christensen TR.

Author information: 
(1)GeoBiosphere Science Centre, Physical Geography and Ecosystems Analysis, Lund 
University, Sölvegatan 12, 22362, Lund, Sweden.

Terrestrial wetland emissions are the largest single source of the greenhouse gas
methane. Northern high-latitude wetlands contribute significantly to the overall 
methane emissions from wetlands, but the relative source distribution between
tropical and high-latitude wetlands remains uncertain. As a result, not all the
observed spatial and seasonal patterns of atmospheric methane concentrations can 
be satisfactorily explained, particularly for high northern latitudes. For
example, a late-autumn shoulder is consistently observed in the seasonal cycles
of atmospheric methane at high-latitude sites, but the sources responsible for
these increased methane concentrations remain uncertain. Here we report a data
set that extends hourly methane flux measurements from a high Arctic setting into
the late autumn and early winter, during the onset of soil freezing. We find that
emissions fall to a low steady level after the growing season but then increase
significantly during the freeze-in period. The integral of emissions during the
freeze-in period is approximately equal to the amount of methane emitted during
the entire summer season. Three-dimensional atmospheric chemistry and transport
model simulations of global atmospheric methane concentrations indicate that the 
observed early winter emission burst improves the agreement between the simulated
seasonal cycle and atmospheric data from latitudes north of 60 degrees N. Our
findings suggest that permafrost-associated freeze-in bursts of methane emissions
from tundra regions could be an important and so far unrecognized component of
the seasonal distribution of methane emissions from high latitudes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07464 
PMID: 19052625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):624-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07576.

Electric field control of the LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface ground state.

Caviglia AD(1), Gariglio S, Reyren N, Jaccard D, Schneider T, Gabay M, Thiel S,
Hammerl G, Mannhart J, Triscone JM.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Physique de la Matière Condensée, University of Geneva, 24 Quai
Ernest-Ansermet, 1211 Genève 4, Switzerland. andrea.caviglia@unige.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):582-3.

Interfaces between complex oxides are emerging as one of the most interesting
systems in condensed matter physics. In this special setting, in which
translational symmetry is artificially broken, a variety of new and unusual
electronic phases can be promoted. Theoretical studies predict complex phase
diagrams and suggest the key role of the charge carrier density in determining
the systems' ground states. A particularly fascinating system is the conducting
interface between the band insulators LaAlO(3) and SrTiO(3) (ref. 3). Recently
two possible ground states have been experimentally identified: a magnetic state 
and a two-dimensional superconducting condensate. Here we use the electric field 
effect to explore the phase diagram of the system. The electrostatic tuning of
the carrier density allows an on/off switching of superconductivity and drives a 
quantum phase transition between a two-dimensional superconducting state and an
insulating state. Analyses of the magnetotransport properties in the insulating
state are consistent with weak localization and do not provide evidence for
magnetism. The electric field control of superconductivity demonstrated here
opens the way to the development of new mesoscopic superconducting circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07576 
PMID: 19052624 


110. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):620-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07466.

Atmospheric structure and dynamics as the cause of ultraviolet markings in the
clouds of Venus.

Titov DV(1), Taylor FW, Svedhem H, Ignatiev NI, Markiewicz WJ, Piccioni G,
Drossart P.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research (MPS), Max-Planck-Strasse 2,
37191 Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany. Titov@mps.mpg.de

When seen in ultraviolet light, Venus has contrast features that arise from the
non-uniform distribution of unknown absorbers within the sulphuric acid clouds
and seem to trace dynamical activity in the middle atmosphere. It has long been
unclear whether the global pattern arises from differences in cloud top altitude 
(which was earlier estimated to be 66-72 km), compositional variations or
temperature contrasts. Here we report multi-wavelength imaging that reveals that 
the dark low latitudes are dominated by convective mixing which brings the
ultraviolet absorbers up from depth. The bright and uniform mid-latitude clouds
reside in the 'cold collar', an annulus of cold air characterized by
approximately 30 K lower temperatures with a positive lapse rate, which
suppresses vertical mixing and cuts off the supply of ultraviolet absorbers from 
below. In low and middle latitudes, the visible cloud top is located at a
remarkably constant altitude of 72 +/- 1 km in both the ultraviolet dark and
bright regions, indicating that the brightness variations result from
compositional differences caused by the colder environment rather than by
elevation changes. The cloud top descends to approximately 64 km in the eye of
the hemispheric vortex, which appears as a depression in the upper cloud deck.
The ultraviolet dark circular streaks enclose the vortex eye and are dynamically 
connected to it.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07466 
PMID: 19052623 


111. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):617-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07608.

Tycho Brahe's 1572 supernova as a standard type Ia as revealed by its light-echo 
spectrum.

Krause O(1), Tanaka M, Usuda T, Hattori T, Goto M, Birkmann S, Nomoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany. 
krause@mpia.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):587-9.

Type Ia supernovae are thermonuclear explosions of white dwarf stars in close
binary systems. They play an important role as cosmological distance indicators
and have led to the discovery of the accelerated expansion of the Universe. Among
the most important unsolved questions about supernovae are how the explosion
actually proceeds and whether accretion occurs from a companion or by the merging
of two white dwarfs. Tycho Brahe's supernova of 1572 (SN 1572) is thought to be
one of the best candidates for a type Ia supernova in the Milky Way. The
proximity of the SN 1572 remnant has allowed detailed studies, such as the
possible identification of the binary companion, and provides a unique
opportunity to test theories of the explosion mechanism and the nature of the
progenitor. The determination of the hitherto unknown spectroscopic type of this 
supernova is crucial in relating these results to the diverse population of type 
Ia supernovae. Here we report an optical spectrum of Tycho's supernova near
maximum brightness, obtained from a scattered-light echo more than four centuries
after the direct light from the explosion swept past the Earth. We find that SN
1572 belongs to the majority class of normal type Ia supernovae.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07608 
PMID: 19052622 


112. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):611-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07471.

Ktu/PF13 is required for cytoplasmic pre-assembly of axonemal dyneins.

Omran H(1), Kobayashi D, Olbrich H, Tsukahara T, Loges NT, Hagiwara H, Zhang Q,
Leblond G, O'Toole E, Hara C, Mizuno H, Kawano H, Fliegauf M, Yagi T, Koshida S, 
Miyawaki A, Zentgraf H, Seithe H, Reinhardt R, Watanabe Y, Kamiya R, Mitchell DR,
Takeda H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, University Hospital Freiburg
Mathildenstrasse 1, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany. heymut.omran@uniklinik-freiburg.de

Comment in
    Bioessays. 2009 Jul;31(7):694-9.

Cilia and flagella are highly conserved organelles that have diverse roles in
cell motility and sensing extracellular signals. Motility defects in cilia and
flagella often result in primary ciliary dyskinesia. However, the mechanisms
underlying cilia formation and function, and in particular the cytoplasmic
assembly of dyneins that power ciliary motility, are only poorly understood. Here
we report a new gene, kintoun (ktu), involved in this cytoplasmic process. This
gene was first identified in a medaka mutant, and found to be mutated in primary 
ciliary dyskinesia patients from two affected families as well as in the pf13
mutant of Chlamydomonas. In the absence of Ktu/PF13, both outer and inner dynein 
arms are missing or defective in the axoneme, leading to a loss of motility.
Biochemical and immunohistochemical studies show that Ktu/PF13 is one of the
long-sought proteins involved in pre-assembly of dynein arm complexes in the
cytoplasm before intraflagellar transport loads them for the ciliary compartment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07471 
PMCID: PMC3279746
PMID: 19052621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):605-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07534.

Mitofusin 2 tethers endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria.

de Brito OM(1), Scorrano L.

Author information: 
(1)Dulbecco-Telethon Institute, Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine, Via
Orus 2, 35129 Padova, Italy.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):266.

Juxtaposition between endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondria is a common
structural feature, providing the physical basis for intercommunication during
Ca(2+) signalling; yet, the molecular mechanisms controlling this interaction are
unknown. Here we show that mitofusin 2, a mitochondrial dynamin-related protein
mutated in the inherited motor neuropathy Charcot-Marie-Tooth type IIa, is
enriched at the ER-mitochondria interface. Ablation or silencing of mitofusin 2
in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and HeLa cells disrupts ER morphology and loosens 
ER-mitochondria interactions, thereby reducing the efficiency of mitochondrial
Ca(2+) uptake in response to stimuli that generate inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate. 
An in vitro assay as well as genetic and biochemical evidences support a model in
which mitofusin 2 on the ER bridges the two organelles by engaging in homotypic
and heterotypic complexes with mitofusin 1 or 2 on the surface of mitochondria.
Thus, mitofusin 2 tethers ER to mitochondria, a juxtaposition required for
efficient mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07534 
PMID: 19052620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):593-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07567.

Efficient tumour formation by single human melanoma cells.

Quintana E(1), Shackleton M, Sabel MS, Fullen DR, Johnson TM, Morrison SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Life Sciences Institute, Department of
Internal Medicine, and Center for Stem Cell Biology, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48109-2216, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):581-2.
    Nat Med. 2009 Jan;15(1):23.

A fundamental question in cancer biology is whether cells with tumorigenic
potential are common or rare within human cancers. Studies on diverse cancers,
including melanoma, have indicated that only rare human cancer cells
(0.1-0.0001%) form tumours when transplanted into non-obese diabetic/severe
combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice. However, the extent to which NOD/SCID 
mice underestimate the frequency of tumorigenic human cancer cells has been
uncertain. Here we show that modified xenotransplantation assay conditions,
including the use of more highly immunocompromised NOD/SCID interleukin-2
receptor gamma chain null (Il2rg(-/-)) mice, can increase the detection of
tumorigenic melanoma cells by several orders of magnitude. In limiting dilution
assays, approximately 25% of unselected melanoma cells from 12 different
patients, including cells from primary and metastatic melanomas obtained directly
from patients, formed tumours under these more permissive conditions. In
single-cell transplants, an average of 27% of unselected melanoma cells from four
different patients formed tumours. Modifications to xenotransplantation assays
can therefore dramatically increase the detectable frequency of tumorigenic
cells, demonstrating that they are common in some human cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07567 
PMCID: PMC2597380
PMID: 19052619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):E3; discussion E4. doi: 10.1038/nature07452.

Pleiotropic scaling and QTL data.

Hermisson J(1), McGregor AP.

Author information: 
(1)Fakultät für Mathematik and Max F. Perutz Laboratories, University of Vienna, 
Nordbergstr. 15, 1090 Vienna, Austria. joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):470-2.

Wagner et al. have recently introduced much-needed data to the debate on how
complexity of the genotype-phenotype map affects the distribution of mutational
effects. They used quantitative trait loci (QTLs) mapping analysis of 70 skeletal
characters in mice and regressed the total QTL effect on the number of traits
affected (level of pleiotropy). From their results they suggest that mutations
with higher pleiotropy have a larger effect, on average, on each of the affected 
traits-a surprising finding that contradicts previous models. We argue that the
possibility of some QTL regions containing multiple mutations, which was not
considered by the authors, introduces a bias that can explain the discrepancy
between one of the previously suggested models and the new data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07452 
PMID: 19052568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):663-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07483. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Regulation of ERBB2 by oestrogen receptor-PAX2 determines response to tamoxifen.

Hurtado A(1), Holmes KA, Geistlinger TR, Hutcheson IR, Nicholson RI, Brown M,
Jiang J, Howat WJ, Ali S, Carroll JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, Cambridge Research Institute, Li Ka Shing Centre, Robinson
Way, Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1168.

Crosstalk between the oestrogen receptor (ER) and ERBB2/HER-2 pathways has long
been implicated in breast cancer aetiology and drug response, yet no direct
connection at a transcriptional level has been shown. Here we show that
oestrogen-ER and tamoxifen-ER complexes directly repress ERBB2 transcription by
means of a cis-regulatory element within the ERBB2 gene in human cell lines. We
implicate the paired box 2 gene product (PAX2), in a previously unrecognized
role, as a crucial mediator of ER repression of ERBB2 by the anti-cancer drug
tamoxifen. We show that PAX2 and the ER co-activator AIB-1/SRC-3 compete for
binding and regulation of ERBB2 transcription, the outcome of which determines
tamoxifen response in breast cancer cells. The repression of ERBB2 by ER-PAX2
links these two breast cancer subtypes and suggests that aggressive
ERBB2-positive tumours can originate from ER-positive luminal tumours by
circumventing this repressive mechanism. These data provide mechanistic insight
into the molecular basis of endocrine resistance in breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07483 
PMCID: PMC2920208
PMID: 19005469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):667-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07460. Epub 2008 Nov 9.

Role for perinuclear chromosome tethering in maintenance of genome stability.

Mekhail K(1), Seebacher J, Gygi SP, Moazed D.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Repetitive DNA sequences, which constitute half the genome in some organisms,
often undergo homologous recombination. This can instigate genomic instability
resulting from a gain or loss of DNA. Assembly of DNA into silent chromatin is
generally thought to serve as a mechanism ensuring repeat stability by limiting
access to the recombination machinery. Consistent with this notion is the
observation, in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, that stability of the
highly repetitive ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences requires a Sir2-containing
chromatin silencing complex that also inhibits transcription from foreign
promoters and transposons inserted within the repeats by a process called rDNA
silencing. Here we describe a protein network that stabilizes rDNA repeats of
budding yeast by means of interactions between rDNA-associated silencing proteins
and two proteins of the inner nuclear membrane (INM). Deletion of either the INM 
or silencing proteins reduces perinuclear rDNA positioning, disrupts the
nucleolus-nucleoplasm boundary, induces the formation of recombination foci, and 
destabilizes the repeats. In addition, artificial targeting of rDNA repeats to
the INM suppresses the instability observed in cells lacking an rDNA-associated
silencing protein that is typically required for peripheral tethering of the
repeats. Moreover, in contrast to Sir2 and its associated nucleolar factors, the 
INM proteins are not required for rDNA silencing, indicating that Sir2-dependent 
silencing is not sufficient to inhibit recombination within the rDNA locus. These
findings demonstrate a role for INM proteins in the perinuclear localization of
chromosomes and show that tethering to the nuclear periphery is required for the 
stability of rDNA repeats. The INM proteins studied here are conserved and have
been implicated in chromosome organization in metazoans. Our results therefore
reveal an ancient mechanism in which interactions between INM proteins and
chromosomal proteins ensure genome stability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07460 
PMCID: PMC2596277
PMID: 18997772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):648-52. doi: 10.1038/nature07428. Epub 2008 Oct 29.

Incorporation of a non-human glycan mediates human susceptibility to a bacterial 
toxin.

Byres E(1), Paton AW, Paton JC, Löfling JC, Smith DF, Wilce MC, Talbot UM, Chong 
DC, Yu H, Huang S, Chen X, Varki NM, Varki A, Rossjohn J, Beddoe T.

Author information: 
(1)Protein Crystallography Unit and ARC Centre of Excellence for Structural and
Functional Microbial Genomics, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.

AB(5) toxins comprise an A subunit that corrupts essential eukaryotic cell
functions, and pentameric B subunits that direct target-cell uptake after binding
surface glycans. Subtilase cytotoxin (SubAB) is an AB(5) toxin secreted by Shiga 
toxigenic Escherichia coli (STEC), which causes serious gastrointestinal disease 
in humans. SubAB causes haemolytic uraemic syndrome-like pathology in mice
through SubA-mediated cleavage of BiP/GRP78, an essential endoplasmic reticulum
chaperone. Here we show that SubB has a strong preference for glycans terminating
in the sialic acid N-glycolylneuraminic acid (Neu5Gc), a monosaccharide not
synthesized in humans. Structures of SubB-Neu5Gc complexes revealed the basis for
this specificity, and mutagenesis of key SubB residues abrogated in vitro glycan 
recognition, cell binding and cytotoxicity. SubAB specificity for Neu5Gc was
confirmed using mouse tissues with a human-like deficiency of Neu5Gc and human
cell lines fed with Neu5Gc. Despite lack of Neu5Gc biosynthesis in humans,
assimilation of dietary Neu5Gc creates high-affinity receptors on human gut
epithelia and kidney vasculature. This, and the lack of Neu5Gc-containing body
fluid competitors in humans, confers susceptibility to the gastrointestinal and
systemic toxicities of SubAB. Ironically, foods rich in Neu5Gc are the most
common source of STEC contamination. Thus a bacterial toxin's receptor is
generated by metabolic incorporation of an exogenous factor derived from food.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07428 
PMCID: PMC2723748
PMID: 18971931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):643-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07391. Epub 2008 Oct 19.

Sox18 induces development of the lymphatic vasculature in mice.

François M(1), Caprini A, Hosking B, Orsenigo F, Wilhelm D, Browne C, Paavonen K,
Karnezis T, Shayan R, Downes M, Davidson T, Tutt D, Cheah KS, Stacker SA, Muscat 
GE, Achen MG, Dejana E, Koopman P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland 4072, Australia.

The lymphatic system plays a key role in tissue fluid regulation and tumour
metastasis, and lymphatic defects underlie many pathological states including
lymphoedema, lymphangiectasia, lymphangioma and lymphatic dysplasia. However, the
origins of the lymphatic system in the embryo, and the mechanisms that direct
growth of the network of lymphatic vessels, remain unclear. Lymphatic vessels are
thought to arise from endothelial precursor cells budding from the cardinal vein 
under the influence of the lymphatic hallmark gene Prox1 (prospero homeobox 1;
ref. 4). Defects in the transcription factor gene SOX18 (SRY (sex determining
region Y) box 18) cause lymphatic dysfunction in the human syndrome
hypotrichosis-lymphoedema-telangiectasia, suggesting that Sox18 may also play a
role in lymphatic development or function. Here we use molecular, cellular and
genetic assays in mice to show that Sox18 acts as a molecular switch to induce
differentiation of lymphatic endothelial cells. Sox18 is expressed in a subset of
cardinal vein cells that later co-express Prox1 and migrate to form lymphatic
vessels. Sox18 directly activates Prox1 transcription by binding to its proximal 
promoter. Overexpression of Sox18 in blood vascular endothelial cells induces
them to express Prox1 and other lymphatic endothelial markers, while Sox18-null
embryos show a complete blockade of lymphatic endothelial cell differentiation
from the cardinal vein. Our findings demonstrate a critical role for Sox18 in
developmental lymphangiogenesis, and suggest new avenues to investigate for
therapeutic management of human lymphangiopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07391 
PMID: 18931657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):599-604. doi: 10.1038/nature07386. Epub 2008 Oct 15.

Centrosome misorientation reduces stem cell division during ageing.

Cheng J(1), Türkel N, Hemati N, Fuller MT, Hunt AJ, Yamashita YM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Center for Ultrafast Optical Science,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):583-5.

Asymmetric division of adult stem cells generates one self-renewing stem cell and
one differentiating cell, thereby maintaining tissue homeostasis. A decline in
stem cell function has been proposed to contribute to tissue ageing, although the
underlying mechanism is poorly understood. Here we show that changes in the stem 
cell orientation with respect to the niche during ageing contribute to the
decline in spermatogenesis in the male germ line of Drosophila. Throughout the
cell cycle, centrosomes in germline stem cells (GSCs) are oriented within their
niche and this ensures asymmetric division. We found that GSCs containing
misoriented centrosomes accumulate with age and that these GSCs are arrested or
delayed in the cell cycle. The cell cycle arrest is transient, and GSCs appear to
re-enter the cell cycle on correction of centrosome orientation. On the basis of 
these findings, we propose that cell cycle arrest associated with centrosome
misorientation functions as a mechanism to ensure asymmetric stem cell division, 
and that the inability of stem cells to maintain correct orientation during
ageing contributes to the decline in spermatogenesis. We also show that some of
the misoriented GSCs probably originate from dedifferentiation of spermatogonia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07386 
PMCID: PMC2712891
PMID: 18923395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):639-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07418. Epub 2008 Oct 15.

Direct control of paralysed muscles by cortical neurons.

Moritz CT(1), Perlmutter SI, Fetz EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Biophysics and Washington National Primate Research
Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
ctmoritz@u.washington.edu

A potential treatment for paralysis resulting from spinal cord injury is to route
control signals from the brain around the injury by artificial connections. Such 
signals could then control electrical stimulation of muscles, thereby restoring
volitional movement to paralysed limbs. In previously separate experiments,
activity of motor cortex neurons related to actual or imagined movements has been
used to control computer cursors and robotic arms, and paralysed muscles have
been activated by functional electrical stimulation. Here we show that Macaca
nemestrina monkeys can directly control stimulation of muscles using the activity
of neurons in the motor cortex, thereby restoring goal-directed movements to a
transiently paralysed arm. Moreover, neurons could control functional stimulation
equally well regardless of any previous association to movement, a finding that
considerably expands the source of control signals for brain-machine interfaces. 
Monkeys learned to use these artificial connections from cortical cells to
muscles to generate bidirectional wrist torques, and controlled multiple
neuron-muscle pairs simultaneously. Such direct transforms from cortical activity
to muscle stimulation could be implemented by autonomous electronic circuitry,
creating a relatively natural neuroprosthesis. These results are the first
demonstration that direct artificial connections between cortical cells and
muscles can compensate for interrupted physiological pathways and restore
volitional control of movement to paralysed limbs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07418 
PMCID: PMC3159518
PMID: 18923392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):658-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07405. Epub 2008 Sep 28.

The ectodomain of Toll-like receptor 9 is cleaved to generate a functional
receptor.

Ewald SE(1), Lee BL, Lau L, Wickliffe KE, Shi GP, Chapman HA, Barton GM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology & Pathogenesis, Department of Molecular and Cell
Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 405 Life Sciences Addition,
Berkeley, California 94720-3200, USA.

Mammalian Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 3, 7, 8 and 9 initiate immune responses to
infection by recognizing microbial nucleic acids; however, these responses come
at the cost of potential autoimmunity owing to inappropriate recognition of self 
nucleic acids. The localization of TLR9 and TLR7 to intracellular compartments
seems to have a role in facilitating responses to viral nucleic acids while
maintaining tolerance to self nucleic acids, yet the cell biology regulating the 
transport and localization of these receptors remains poorly understood. Here we 
define the route by which TLR9 and TLR7 exit the endoplasmic reticulum and travel
to endolysosomes in mouse macrophages and dendritic cells. The ectodomains of
TLR9 and TLR7 are cleaved in the endolysosome, such that no full-length protein
is detectable in the compartment where ligand is recognized. Notably, although
both the full-length and cleaved forms of TLR9 are capable of binding ligand,
only the processed form recruits MyD88 on activation, indicating that this
truncated receptor, rather than the full-length form, is functional. Furthermore,
conditions that prevent receptor proteolysis, including forced TLR9 surface
localization, render the receptor non-functional. We propose that ectodomain
cleavage represents a strategy to restrict receptor activation to endolysosomal
compartments and prevent TLRs from responding to self nucleic acids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07405 
PMCID: PMC2596276
PMID: 18820679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):636-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07339. Epub 2008 Sep 21.

The pectoral fin of Panderichthys and the origin of digits.

Boisvert CA(1), Mark-Kurik E, Ahlberg PE.

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Evolutionary Organismal Biology, Department of Physiology and
Developmental Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Norbyvägen 18A, 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. catherine.boisvert@ebc.uu.se

One of the identifying characteristics of tetrapods (limbed vertebrates) is the
presence of fingers and toes. Whereas the proximal part of the tetrapod limb
skeleton can easily be homologized with the paired fin skeletons of
sarcopterygian (lobe-finned) fish, there has been much debate about the origin of
digits. Early hypotheses interpreted digits as derivatives of fin radials, but
during the 1990s the idea gained acceptance that digits are evolutionary
novelties without direct equivalents in fish fin skeletons. This was partly based
on developmental genetic data, but also substantially on the pectoral fin
skeleton of the elpistostegid (transitional fish/tetrapod) Panderichthys, which
appeared to lack distal digit-like radials. Here we present a CT scan study of an
undisturbed pectoral fin of Panderichthys demonstrating that the plate-like
'ulnare' of previous reconstructions is an artefact and that distal radials are
in fact present. This distal portion is more tetrapod-like than that found in
Tiktaalik and, in combination with new data about fin development in basal
actinopterygians, sharks and lungfish, makes a strong case for fingers not being 
a novelty of tetrapods but derived from pre-existing distal radials present in
all sarcopterygian fish.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07339 
PMID: 18806778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):534-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07524.

The role of HLA-DQ8 beta57 polymorphism in the anti-gluten T-cell response in
coeliac disease.

Hovhannisyan Z(1), Weiss A, Martin A, Wiesner M, Tollefsen S, Yoshida K,
Ciszewski C, Curran SA, Murray JA, David CS, Sollid LM, Koning F, Teyton L, Jabri
B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Pathology, Pediatrics and Committee of Immunology,
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II alleles HLA-DQ8 and the mouse
homologue I-A(g7) lacking a canonical aspartic acid residue at position beta57
are associated with coeliac disease and type I diabetes. However, the role of
this single polymorphism in disease initiation and progression remains poorly
understood. The lack of Asp 57 creates a positively charged P9 pocket, which
confers a preference for negatively charged peptides. Gluten lacks such peptides,
but tissue transglutaminase (TG2) introduces negatively charged residues at
defined positions into gluten T-cell epitopes by deamidating specific glutamine
residues on the basis of their spacing to proline residues. The commonly accepted
model, proposing that HLA-DQ8 simply favours binding of negatively charged
peptides, does not take into account the fact that TG2 requires inflammation for 
activation and that T-cell responses against native gluten peptides are found,
particularly in children. Here we show that beta57 polymorphism promotes the
recruitment of T-cell receptors bearing a negative signature charge in the
complementary determining region 3beta (CDR3beta) during the response against
native gluten peptides presented by HLA-DQ8 in coeliac disease. These T cells
showed a crossreactive and heteroclitic (stronger) response to deamidated gluten 
peptides. Furthermore, gluten peptide deamidation extended the T-cell-receptor
repertoire by relieving the requirement for a charged residue in CDR3beta. Thus, 
the lack of a negative charge at position beta57 in MHC class II was met by
negatively charged residues in the T-cell receptor or in the peptide, the
combination of which might explain the role of HLA-DQ8 in amplifying the T-cell
response against dietary gluten.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07524 
PMCID: PMC3784325
PMID: 19037317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):520-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07546.

Structural basis for gibberellin recognition by its receptor GID1.

Shimada A(1), Ueguchi-Tanaka M, Nakatsu T, Nakajima M, Naoe Y, Ohmiya H, Kato H, 
Matsuoka M.

Author information: 
(1)Bioscience and Biotechnology Center, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi
464-8601, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):455-6.

Gibberellins (GAs) are phytohormones essential for many developmental processes
in plants. A nuclear GA receptor, GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1), has a
primary structure similar to that of the hormone-sensitive lipases (HSLs). Here
we analyse the crystal structure of Oryza sativa GID1 (OsGID1) bound with GA(4)
and GA(3) at 1.9 A resolution. The overall structure of both complexes shows an
alpha/beta-hydrolase fold similar to that of HSLs except for an amino-terminal
lid. The GA-binding pocket corresponds to the substrate-binding site of HSLs. On 
the basis of the OsGID1 structure, we mutagenized important residues for GA
binding and examined their binding activities. Almost all of them showed very
little or no activity, confirming that the residues revealed by structural
analysis are important for GA binding. The replacement of Ile 133 with Leu or
Val-residues corresponding to those of the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii
GID1s-caused an increase in the binding affinity for GA(34), a 2beta-hydroxylated
GA(4). These observations indicate that GID1 originated from HSL and was further 
modified to have higher affinity and more strict selectivity for bioactive GAs by
adapting the amino acids involved in GA binding in the course of plant evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07546 
PMID: 19037316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):497-501. doi: 10.1038/nature07533.

An ancestral turtle from the Late Triassic of southwestern China.

Li C(1), Wu XC, Rieppel O, Wang LT, Zhao LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of Vertebrate
Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of SciencesPO Box 643,
Beijing 100044, China. lichun@ivpp.ac.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):450-1.

The origin of the turtle body plan remains one of the great mysteries of reptile 
evolution. The anatomy of turtles is highly derived, which renders it difficult
to establish the relationships of turtles with other groups of reptiles. The
oldest known turtle, Proganochelys from the Late Triassic period of Germany, has 
a fully formed shell and offers no clue as to its origin. Here we describe a new 
220-million-year-old turtle from China, somewhat older than Proganochelys, that
documents an intermediate step in the evolution of the shell and associated
structures. A ventral plastron is fully developed, but the dorsal carapace
consists of neural plates only. The dorsal ribs are expanded, and osteoderms are 
absent. The new species shows that the plastron evolved before the carapace and
that the first step of carapace formation is the ossification of the neural
plates coupled with a broadening of the ribs. This corresponds to early embryonic
stages of carapace formation in extant turtles, and shows that the turtle shell
is not derived from a fusion of osteoderms. Phylogenetic analysis places the new 
species basal to all known turtles, fossil and extant. The marine deposits that
yielded the fossils indicate that this primitive turtle inhabited marginal areas 
of the sea or river deltas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07533 
PMID: 19037315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):493-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07465.

Low heat flow inferred from >4 Gyr zircons suggests Hadean plate boundary
interactions.

Hopkins M(1), Harrison TM, Manning CE.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics and Department of Earth and
Space Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

The first approximately 600 million years of Earth history (the 'Hadean' eon)
remain poorly understood, largely because there is no rock record dating from
that era. Detrital Hadean igneous zircons from the Jack Hills, Western Australia,
however, can potentially provide insights into the conditions extant on our
planet at that time. Results of geochemical investigations using these ancient
grains have been interpreted to suggest the presence of a hydrosphere and
continental crust before 4 Gyr. An underexploited characteristic of the >4 Gyr
zircons is their diverse assemblage of mineral inclusions. Here we present an
examination of over 400 Hadean zircons from Jack Hills, which shows that some
inclusion assemblages are conducive to thermobarometry. Our thermobarometric
analyses of 4.02-4.19-Gyr-old inclusion-bearing zircons constrain their magmatic 
formation conditions to about 700 degrees C and 7 kbar. This result implies a
near-surface heat flow of approximately 75 mW m(-2), about three to five times
lower than estimates of Hadean global heat flow. As the only site of magmatism on
modern Earth that is characterized by heat flow of about one-quarter of the
global average is above subduction zones, we suggest that the magmas from which
the Jack Hills Hadean zircons crystallized were formed largely in an underthrust 
environment, perhaps similar to modern convergent margins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07465 
PMID: 19037314 


128. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07426.

Agulhas leakage dynamics affects decadal variability in Atlantic overturning
circulation.

Biastoch A(1), Böning CW, Lutjeharms JR.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz-Institut für Meereswissenschaften, Düsternbrooker Weg 20, 24105 Kiel, 
Germany. abiastoch@ifm-geomar.de

Predicting the evolution of climate over decadal timescales requires a
quantitative understanding of the dynamics that govern the meridional overturning
circulation (MOC). Comprehensive ocean measurement programmes aiming to monitor
MOC variations have been established in the subtropical North Atlantic (RAPID, at
latitude 26.5 degrees N, and MOVE, at latitude 16 degrees N) and show strong
variability on intraseasonal to interannual timescales. Observational evidence of
longer-term changes in MOC transport remains scarce, owing to infrequent sampling
of transoceanic sections over past decades. Inferences based on long-term sea
surface temperature records, however, supported by model simulations, suggest a
variability with an amplitude of +/-1.5-3 Sv (1 Sv = 10(6) m(3) s(-1)) on decadal
timescales in the subtropics. Such variability has been attributed to variations 
of deep water formation in the sub-arctic Atlantic, particularly the renewal rate
of Labrador Sea Water. Here we present results from a model simulation that
suggest an additional influence on decadal MOC variability having a Southern
Hemisphere origin: dynamic signals originating in the Agulhas leakage region at
the southern tip of Africa. These contribute a MOC signal in the tropical and
subtropical North Atlantic that is of the same order of magnitude as the northern
source. A complete rationalization of observed MOC changes therefore also
requires consideration of signals arriving from the south.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07426 
PMID: 19037313 


129. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):485-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07543.

Total synthesis of bryostatin 16 using atom-economical and chemoselective
approaches.

Trost BM(1), Dong G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-5080,
USA. bmtrost@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):451-3.

Of the concepts used to improve the efficiency of organic syntheses, two have
been especially effective: atom economy (the use of routes in which most of the
atoms present in the reactants also end up in the product) and chemoselectivity
(the use of reactions that take place only at desired positions in a molecule).
Synthesis of complex natural products is the most demanding arena in which to
explore such principles. The bryostatin family of compounds are especially
interesting targets, because they combine structural complexity with promising
biological activity. Furthermore, synthetic routes to some bryostatins have
already been reported, providing a benchmark against which new syntheses can be
measured. Here we report a concise total synthesis of bryostatin 16 (1), a parent
structure from which almost all other bryostatins could in principle be accessed.
Application of atom-economical and chemoselective reactions currently under
development provides ready access to polyhydropyran motifs in the molecule, which
are common structural features of many other natural products. The most notable
transformations are two transition-metal-catalysed reactions. The first is a
palladium-catalysed reaction of two different alkynes to form a large ring. The
product of this step is then converted into a dihydropyran (the 'C ring' of
bryostatins) in the second key reaction, which is catalysed by a gold compound.
Analogues of bryostatin that do not exist in nature could be readily made by
following this route, which might allow the biological activity of bryostatins to
be fine-tuned.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07543 
PMCID: PMC2728752
PMID: 19037312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):480-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07545.

Harnessing optical forces in integrated photonic circuits.

Li M(1), Pernice WH, Xiong C, Baehr-Jones T, Hochberg M, Tang HX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06511, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):458.

The force exerted by photons is of fundamental importance in light-matter
interactions. For example, in free space, optical tweezers have been widely used 
to manipulate atoms and microscale dielectric particles. This optical force is
expected to be greatly enhanced in integrated photonic circuits in which light is
highly concentrated at the nanoscale. Harnessing the optical force on a
semiconductor chip will allow solid state devices, such as electromechanical
systems, to operate under new physical principles. Indeed, recent experiments
have elucidated the radiation forces of light in high-finesse optical
microcavities, but the large footprint of these devices ultimately prevents
scaling down to nanoscale dimensions. Recent theoretical work has predicted that 
a transverse optical force can be generated and used directly for
electromechanical actuation without the need for a high-finesse cavity. However, 
on-chip exploitation of this force has been a significant challenge, primarily
owing to the lack of efficient nanoscale mechanical transducers in the photonics 
domain. Here we report the direct detection and exploitation of transverse
optical forces in an integrated silicon photonic circuit through an embedded
nanomechanical resonator. The nanomechanical device, a free-standing waveguide,
is driven by the optical force and read out through evanescent coupling of the
guided light to the dielectric substrate. This new optical force enables
all-optical operation of nanomechanical systems on a CMOS (complementary
metal-oxide-semiconductor)-compatible platform, with substantial bandwidth and
design flexibility compared to conventional electrical-based schemes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07545 
PMID: 19037311 


131. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):477-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07542.

Water vapour jets inside the plume of gas leaving Enceladus.

Hansen CJ(1), Esposito LW, Stewart AI, Meinke B, Wallis B, Colwell JE, Hendrix
AR, Larsen K, Pryor W, Tian F.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory/California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA. candice.j.hansen@jpl.nasa.gov

A plume of water vapour escapes from fissures crossing the south polar region of 
the Saturnian moon Enceladus. Tidal deformation of a thin surface crust above an 
internal ocean could result in tensile and compressive stresses that would affect
the width of the fissures; therefore, the quantity of water vapour released at
different locations in Enceladus' eccentric orbit is a crucial measurement of
tidal control of venting. Here we report observations of an occultation of a star
by the plume on 24 October 2007 that revealed four high-density gas jets
superimposed on the background plume. The gas jet positions coincide with those
of dust jets reported elsewhere inside the plume. The maximum water column
density in the plume is about twice the density reported earlier. The density
ratio does not agree with predictions-we should have seen less water than was
observed in 2005. The ratio of the jets' bulk vertical velocities to their
thermal velocities is 1.5 +/- 0.2, which supports the hypothesis that the source 
of the plume is liquid water, with gas accelerated to supersonic velocity in
nozzle-like channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07542 
PMID: 19037310 


132. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):459-63. doi: 10.1038/nature07519.

Gibberellin-induced DELLA recognition by the gibberellin receptor GID1.

Murase K(1), Hirano Y, Sun TP, Hakoshima T.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Laboratory, Nara Institute of Science and Technology,
8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):455-6.

Gibberellins control a range of growth and developmental processes in higher
plants and have been widely used in the agricultural industry. By binding to a
nuclear receptor, GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1), gibberellins regulate
gene expression by promoting degradation of the transcriptional regulator DELLA
proteins, including GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE (GAI). The precise manner in which
GID1 discriminates and becomes activated by bioactive gibberellins for specific
binding to DELLA proteins remains unclear. Here we present the crystal structure 
of a ternary complex of Arabidopsis thaliana GID1A, a bioactive gibberellin and
the amino-terminal DELLA domain of GAI. In this complex, GID1A occludes
gibberellin in a deep binding pocket covered by its N-terminal helical switch
region, which in turn interacts with the DELLA domain containing DELLA, VHYNP and
LExLE motifs. Our results establish a structural model of a plant hormone
receptor that is distinct from the mechanism of the hormone perception and
effector recognition of the known auxin receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07519 
PMID: 19037309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):507-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07450. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

Lymphoid tissue genesis induced by commensals through NOD1 regulates intestinal
homeostasis.

Bouskra D(1), Brézillon C, Bérard M, Werts C, Varona R, Boneca IG, Eberl G.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Laboratory of Lymphoid Tissue Development, CNRS, URA1961.

Intestinal homeostasis is critical for efficient energy extraction from food and 
protection from pathogens. Its disruption can lead to an array of severe
illnesses with major impacts on public health, such as inflammatory bowel disease
characterized by self-destructive intestinal immunity. However, the mechanisms
regulating the equilibrium between the large bacterial flora and the immune
system remain unclear. Intestinal lymphoid tissues generate flora-reactive
IgA-producing B cells, and include Peyer's patches and mesenteric lymph nodes, as
well as numerous isolated lymphoid follicles (ILFs). Here we show that
peptidoglycan from Gram-negative bacteria is necessary and sufficient to induce
the genesis of ILFs in mice through recognition by the NOD1 (nucleotide-binding
oligomerization domain containing 1) innate receptor in epithelial cells, and
beta-defensin 3- and CCL20-mediated signalling through the chemokine receptor
CCR6. Maturation of ILFs into large B-cell clusters requires subsequent detection
of bacteria by toll-like receptors. In the absence of ILFs, the composition of
the intestinal bacterial community is profoundly altered. Our results demonstrate
that intestinal bacterial commensals and the immune system communicate through an
innate detection system to generate adaptive lymphoid tissues and maintain
intestinal homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07450 
PMID: 18987631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):464-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07488. Epub 2008 Nov 2.

HITS-CLIP yields genome-wide insights into brain alternative RNA processing.

Licatalosi DD(1), Mele A, Fak JJ, Ule J, Kayikci M, Chi SW, Clark TA, Schweitzer 
AC, Blume JE, Wang X, Darnell JC, Darnell RB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuro-Oncology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Protein-RNA interactions have critical roles in all aspects of gene expression.
However, applying biochemical methods to understand such interactions in living
tissues has been challenging. Here we develop a genome-wide means of mapping
protein-RNA binding sites in vivo, by high-throughput sequencing of RNA isolated 
by crosslinking immunoprecipitation (HITS-CLIP). HITS-CLIP analysis of the
neuron-specific splicing factor Nova revealed extremely reproducible RNA-binding 
maps in multiple mouse brains. These maps provide genome-wide in vivo biochemical
footprints confirming the previous prediction that the position of Nova binding
determines the outcome of alternative splicing; moreover, they are sufficiently
powerful to predict Nova action de novo. HITS-CLIP revealed a large number of
Nova-RNA interactions in 3' untranslated regions, leading to the discovery that
Nova regulates alternative polyadenylation in the brain. HITS-CLIP, therefore,
provides a robust, unbiased means to identify functional protein-RNA interactions
in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07488 
PMCID: PMC2597294
PMID: 18978773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):470-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07509.

Alternative isoform regulation in human tissue transcriptomes.

Wang ET(1), Sandberg R, Luo S, Khrebtukova I, Zhang L, Mayr C, Kingsmore SF,
Schroth GP, Burge CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Through alternative processing of pre-messenger RNAs, individual mammalian genes 
often produce multiple mRNA and protein isoforms that may have related, distinct 
or even opposing functions. Here we report an in-depth analysis of 15 diverse
human tissue and cell line transcriptomes on the basis of deep sequencing of
complementary DNA fragments, yielding a digital inventory of gene and mRNA
isoform expression. Analyses in which sequence reads are mapped to exon-exon
junctions indicated that 92-94% of human genes undergo alternative splicing, 86% 
with a minor isoform frequency of 15% or more. Differences in isoform-specific
read densities indicated that most alternative splicing and alternative cleavage 
and polyadenylation events vary between tissues, whereas variation between
individuals was approximately twofold to threefold less common. Extreme or
'switch-like' regulation of splicing between tissues was associated with
increased sequence conservation in regulatory regions and with generation of
full-length open reading frames. Patterns of alternative splicing and alternative
cleavage and polyadenylation were strongly correlated across tissues, suggesting 
coordinated regulation of these processes, and sequence conservation of a subset 
of known regulatory motifs in both alternative introns and 3' untranslated
regions suggested common involvement of specific factors in tissue-level
regulation of both splicing and polyadenylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07509 
PMCID: PMC2593745
PMID: 18978772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):516-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07389. Epub 2008 Oct 29.

A fast, robust and tunable synthetic gene oscillator.

Stricker J(1), Cookson S, Bennett MR, Mather WH, Tsimring LS, Hasty J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

One defining goal of synthetic biology is the development of engineering-based
approaches that enable the construction of gene-regulatory networks according to 
'design specifications' generated from computational modelling. This approach
provides a systematic framework for exploring how a given regulatory network
generates a particular phenotypic behaviour. Several fundamental gene circuits
have been developed using this approach, including toggle switches and
oscillators, and these have been applied in new contexts such as triggered
biofilm development and cellular population control. Here we describe an
engineered genetic oscillator in Escherichia coli that is fast, robust and
persistent, with tunable oscillatory periods as fast as 13 min. The oscillator
was designed using a previously modelled network architecture comprising linked
positive and negative feedback loops. Using a microfluidic platform tailored for 
single-cell microscopy, we precisely control environmental conditions and monitor
oscillations in individual cells through multiple cycles. Experiments reveal
remarkable robustness and persistence of oscillations in the designed circuit;
almost every cell exhibited large-amplitude fluorescence oscillations throughout 
observation runs. The oscillatory period can be tuned by altering inducer levels,
temperature and the media source. Computational modelling demonstrates that the
key design principle for constructing a robust oscillator is a time delay in the 
negative feedback loop, which can mechanistically arise from the cascade of
cellular processes involved in forming a functional transcription factor. The
positive feedback loop increases the robustness of the oscillations and allows
for greater tunability. Examination of our refined model suggested the existence 
of a simplified oscillator design without positive feedback, and we construct an 
oscillator strain confirming this computational prediction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07389 
PMID: 18971928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):511-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07414. Epub 2008 Oct 26.

Sarcolemma-localized nNOS is required to maintain activity after mild exercise.

Kobayashi YM(1), Rader EP, Crawford RW, Iyengar NK, Thedens DR, Faulkner JA,
Parikh SV, Weiss RM, Chamberlain JS, Moore SA, Campbell KP.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Iowa, Roy J. and Lucille A.
Carver College of Medicine, 4283 Carver Biomedical Research Building, 285 Newton 
Road, Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1101, USA.

Many neuromuscular conditions are characterized by an exaggerated
exercise-induced fatigue response that is disproportionate to activity level.
This fatigue is not necessarily correlated with greater central or peripheral
fatigue in patients, and some patients experience severe fatigue without any
demonstrable somatic disease. Except in myopathies that are due to specific
metabolic defects, the mechanism underlying this type of fatigue remains unknown.
With no treatment available, this form of inactivity is a major determinant of
disability. Here we show, using mouse models, that this exaggerated fatigue
response is distinct from a loss in specific force production by muscle, and that
sarcolemma-localized signalling by neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in
skeletal muscle is required to maintain activity after mild exercise. We show
that nNOS-null mice do not have muscle pathology and have no loss of
muscle-specific force after exercise but do display this exaggerated fatigue
response to mild exercise. In mouse models of nNOS mislocalization from the
sarcolemma, prolonged inactivity was only relieved by pharmacologically enhancing
the cGMP signal that results from muscle nNOS activation during the nitric oxide 
signalling response to mild exercise. Our findings suggest that the mechanism
underlying the exaggerated fatigue response to mild exercise is a lack of
contraction-induced signalling from sarcolemma-localized nNOS, which decreases
cGMP-mediated vasomodulation in the vessels that supply active muscle after mild 
exercise. Sarcolemmal nNOS staining was decreased in patient biopsies from a
large number of distinct myopathies, suggesting a common mechanism of fatigue.
Our results suggest that patients with an exaggerated fatigue response to mild
exercise would show clinical improvement in response to treatment strategies
aimed at improving exercise-induced signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07414 
PMCID: PMC2588643
PMID: 18953332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07433. Epub 2008 Oct 19.

53BP1 promotes non-homologous end joining of telomeres by increasing chromatin
mobility.

Dimitrova N(1), Chen YC, Spector DL, de Lange T.

Author information: 
(1)The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Double-strand breaks activate the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase,
which promotes the accumulation of DNA damage factors in the chromatin
surrounding the break. The functional significance of the resulting DNA damage
foci is poorly understood. Here we show that 53BP1 (also known as TRP53BP1), a
component of DNA damage foci, changes the dynamic behaviour of chromatin to
promote DNA repair. We used conditional deletion of the shelterin component TRF2 
(also known as TERF2) from mouse cells (TRF2(fl/-)) to deprotect telomeres,
which, like double-strand breaks, activate the ATM kinase, accumulate 53BP1 and
are processed by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). Deletion of TRF2 from
53BP1-deficient cells established that NHEJ of dysfunctional telomeres is
strongly dependent on the binding of 53BP1 to damaged chromosome ends. To address
the mechanism by which 53BP1 promotes NHEJ, we used time-lapse microscopy to
measure telomere dynamics before and after their deprotection. Imaging showed
that deprotected telomeres are more mobile and sample larger territories within
the nucleus. This change in chromatin dynamics was dependent on 53BP1 and ATM but
did not require a functional NHEJ pathway. We propose that the binding of 53BP1
near DNA breaks changes the dynamic behaviour of the local chromatin, thereby
facilitating NHEJ repair reactions that involve distant sites, including joining 
of dysfunctional telomeres and AID (also known as AICDA)-induced breaks in
immunoglobulin class-switch recombination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07433 
PMCID: PMC2613650
PMID: 18931659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature07476. Epub 2008 Oct 19.

53BP1 facilitates long-range DNA end-joining during V(D)J recombination.

Difilippantonio S(1), Gapud E, Wong N, Huang CY, Mahowald G, Chen HT, Kruhlak MJ,
Callen E, Livak F, Nussenzweig MC, Sleckman BP, Nussenzweig A.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Immunology Branch, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1360, USA.

Variable, diversity and joining (V(D)J) recombination and class-switch
recombination use overlapping but distinct non-homologous end joining pathways to
repair DNA double-strand-break intermediates. 53BP1 is a DNA-damage-response
protein that is rapidly recruited to sites of chromosomal double-strand breaks,
where it seems to function in a subset of ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)
kinase-, H2A histone family member X (H2AX, also known as H2AFX)- and mediator of
DNA damage checkpoint 1 (MDC1)-dependent events. A 53BP1-dependent end-joining
pathway has been described that is dispensable for V(D)J recombination but
essential for class-switch recombination. Here we report a previously
unrecognized defect in the joining phase of V(D)J recombination in
53BP1-deficient lymphocytes that is distinct from that found in classical
non-homologous-end-joining-, H2ax-, Mdc1- and Atm-deficient mice. Absence of
53BP1 leads to impairment of distal V-DJ joining with extensive degradation of
unrepaired coding ends and episomal signal joint reintegration at V(D)J
junctions. This results in apoptosis, loss of T-cell receptor alpha locus
integrity and lymphopenia. Further impairment of the apoptotic checkpoint causes 
propagation of lymphocytes that have antigen receptor breaks. These data suggest 
a more general role for 53BP1 in maintaining genomic stability during long-range 
joining of DNA breaks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07476 
PMCID: PMC3596817
PMID: 18931658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 2008 Nov 27;456(7221):502-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07384. Epub 2008 Sep 17.

Self-renewal and expansion of single transplanted muscle stem cells.

Sacco A(1), Doyonnas R, Kraft P, Vitorovic S, Blau HM.

Author information: 
(1)Baxter Laboratory in Genetic Pharmacology, Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Stem Cell Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305-5175, USA.

Adult muscle satellite cells have a principal role in postnatal skeletal muscle
growth and regeneration. Satellite cells reside as quiescent cells underneath the
basal lamina that surrounds muscle fibres and respond to damage by giving rise to
transient amplifying cells (progenitors) and myoblasts that fuse with myofibres. 
Recent experiments showed that, in contrast to cultured myoblasts, satellite
cells freshly isolated or satellite cells derived from the transplantation of one
intact myofibre contribute robustly to muscle repair. However, because satellite 
cells are known to be heterogeneous, clonal analysis is required to demonstrate
stem cell function. Here we show that when a single luciferase-expressing muscle 
stem cell is transplanted into the muscle of mice it is capable of extensive
proliferation, contributes to muscle fibres, and Pax7(+)luciferase(+)
mononucleated cells can be readily re-isolated, providing evidence of muscle stem
cell self-renewal. In addition, we show using in vivo bioluminescence imaging
that the dynamics of muscle stem cell behaviour during muscle repair can be
followed in a manner not possible using traditional retrospective histological
analyses. By imaging luciferase activity, real-time quantitative and kinetic
analyses show that donor-derived muscle stem cells proliferate and engraft
rapidly after injection until homeostasis is reached. On injury, donor-derived
mononucleated cells generate massive waves of cell proliferation. Together, these
results show that the progeny of a single luciferase-expressing muscle stem cell 
can both self-renew and differentiate after transplantation in mice, providing
new evidence at the clonal level that self-renewal is an autonomous property of a
single adult muscle stem cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07384 
PMCID: PMC2919355
PMID: 18806774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):350-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07413.

Structure of the intact PPAR-gamma-RXR- nuclear receptor complex on DNA.

Chandra V(1), Huang P, Hamuro Y, Raghuram S, Wang Y, Burris TP, Rastinejad F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, and Center for Molecular Design, University of
Virginia Health System, 1300 Jefferson Park Avenue, Charlottesville, Virginia
22908-0735, USA.

Nuclear receptors are multi-domain transcription factors that bind to DNA
elements from which they regulate gene expression. The peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) form heterodimers with the retinoid X
receptor (RXR), and PPAR-gamma has been intensively studied as a drug target
because of its link to insulin sensitization. Previous structural studies have
focused on isolated DNA or ligand-binding segments, with no demonstration of how 
multiple domains cooperate to modulate receptor properties. Here we present
structures of intact PPAR-gamma and RXR-alpha as a heterodimer bound to DNA,
ligands and coactivator peptides. PPAR-gamma and RXR-alpha form a non-symmetric
complex, allowing the ligand-binding domain (LBD) of PPAR-gamma to contact
multiple domains in both proteins. Three interfaces link PPAR-gamma and
RXR-alpha, including some that are DNA dependent. The PPAR-gamma LBD cooperates
with both DNA-binding domains (DBDs) to enhance response-element binding. The A/B
segments are highly dynamic, lacking folded substructures despite their
gene-activation properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07413 
PMCID: PMC2743566
PMID: 19043829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):409-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07451.

Calcium-bound structure of calpain and its mechanism of inhibition by
calpastatin.

Hanna RA(1), Campbell RL, Davies PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada K7L 
3N6.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):337-8.

Calpains are non-lysosomal calcium-dependent cysteine proteinases that
selectively cleave proteins in response to calcium signals and thereby control
cellular functions such as cytoskeletal remodelling, cell cycle progression, gene
expression and apoptotic cell death. In mammals, the two best-characterized
members of the calpain family, calpain 1 and calpain 2 (micro-calpain and
m-calpain, respectively), are ubiquitously expressed. The activity of calpains is
tightly controlled by the endogenous inhibitor calpastatin, which is an
intrinsically unstructured protein capable of reversibly binding and inhibiting
four molecules of calpain, but only in the presence of calcium. To date, the
mechanism of inhibition by calpastatin and the basis for its absolute specificity
have remained speculative. It was not clear how this unstructured protein
inhibits calpains without being cleaved itself, nor was it known how calcium
induced changes that facilitated the binding of calpastatin to calpain. Here we
report the 2.4-A-resolution crystal structure of the calcium-bound calpain 2
heterodimer bound by one of the four inhibitory domains of calpastatin.
Calpastatin is seen to inhibit calpain by occupying both sides of the active site
cleft. Although the inhibitor passes through the active site cleft it escapes
cleavage in a novel manner by looping out and around the active site cysteine.
The inhibitory domain of calpastatin recognizes multiple lower affinity sites
present only in the calcium-bound form of the enzyme, resulting in an interaction
that is tight, specific and calcium dependent. This crystal structure, and that
of a related complex, also reveal the conformational changes that calpain
undergoes on binding calcium, which include opening of the active site cleft and 
movement of the domains relative to each other to produce a more compact enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07451 
PMID: 19020623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):404-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07353.

Concerted multi-pronged attack by calpastatin to occlude the catalytic cleft of
heterodimeric calpains.

Moldoveanu T(1), Gehring K, Green DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 332 N
Lauderdale, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):337-8.

The Ca(2+)-dependent cysteine proteases, calpains, regulate cell migration, cell 
death, insulin secretion, synaptic function and muscle homeostasis. Their
endogenous inhibitor, calpastatin, consists of four inhibitory repeats, each of
which neutralizes an activated calpain with exquisite specificity and potency.
Despite the physiological importance of this interaction, the structural basis of
calpain inhibition by calpastatin is unknown. Here we report the 3.0 A structure 
of Ca(2+)-bound m-calpain in complex with the first calpastatin repeat, both from
rat, revealing the mechanism of exclusive specificity. The structure highlights
the complexity of calpain activation by Ca(2+), illustrating key residues in a
peripheral domain that serve to stabilize the protease core on Ca(2+) binding.
Fully activated calpain binds ten Ca(2+) atoms, resulting in several
conformational changes allowing recognition by calpastatin. Calpain inhibition is
mediated by the intimate contact with three critical regions of calpastatin. Two 
regions target the penta-EF-hand domains of calpain and the third occupies the
substrate-binding cleft, projecting a loop around the active site thiol to evade 
proteolysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07353 
PMCID: PMC2847431
PMID: 19020622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):395-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07590.

Mechanism of phototaxis in marine zooplankton.

Jékely G(1), Colombelli J, Hausen H, Guy K, Stelzer E, Nédélec F, Arendt D.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg 
69117, Germany. gaspar.jekely@tuebingen.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):334.

The simplest animal eyes are eyespots composed of two cells only: a photoreceptor
and a shading pigment cell. They resemble Darwin's 'proto-eyes', considered to be
the first eyes to appear in animal evolution. Eyespots cannot form images but
enable the animal to sense the direction of light. They are characteristic for
the zooplankton larvae of marine invertebrates and are thought to mediate larval 
swimming towards the light. Phototaxis of invertebrate larvae contributes to the 
vertical migration of marine plankton, which is thought to represent the biggest 
biomass transport on Earth. Yet, despite its ecological and evolutionary
importance, the mechanism by which eyespots regulate phototaxis is poorly
understood. Here we show how simple eyespots in marine zooplankton mediate
phototactic swimming, using the marine annelid Platynereis dumerilii as a model. 
We find that the selective illumination of one eyespot changes the beating of
adjacent cilia by direct cholinergic innervation resulting in locally reduced
water flow. Computer simulations of larval swimming show that these local effects
are sufficient to direct the helical swimming trajectories towards the light. The
computer model also shows that axial rotation of the larval body is essential for
phototaxis and that helical swimming increases the precision of navigation. These
results provide, to our knowledge, the first mechanistic understanding of
phototaxis in a marine zooplankton larva and show how simple eyespots regulate
it. We propose that the underlying direct coupling of light sensing and ciliary
locomotor control was a principal feature of the proto-eye and an important
landmark in the evolution of animal eyes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07590 
PMID: 19020621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):387-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07446.

Sequencing the nuclear genome of the extinct woolly mammoth.

Miller W(1), Drautz DI, Ratan A, Pusey B, Qi J, Lesk AM, Tomsho LP, Packard MD,
Zhao F, Sher A, Tikhonov A, Raney B, Patterson N, Lindblad-Toh K, Lander ES,
Knight JR, Irzyk GP, Fredrikson KM, Harkins TT, Sheridan S, Pringle T, Schuster
SC.

Author information: 
(1)Pennsylvania State University, Center for Comparative Genomics and
Bioinformatics, 310 Wartik Building, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
webb@bx.psu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):330-1.

In 1994, two independent groups extracted DNA from several Pleistocene epoch
mammoths and noted differences among individual specimens. Subsequently, DNA
sequences have been published for a number of extinct species. However, such
ancient DNA is often fragmented and damaged, and studies to date have typically
focused on short mitochondrial sequences, never yielding more than a fraction of 
a per cent of any nuclear genome. Here we describe 4.17 billion bases (Gb) of
sequence from several mammoth specimens, 3.3 billion (80%) of which are from the 
woolly mammoth (Mammuthus primigenius) genome and thus comprise an extensive set 
of genome-wide sequence from an extinct species. Our data support earlier reports
that elephantid genomes exceed 4 Gb. The estimated divergence rate between
mammoth and African elephant is half of that between human and chimpanzee. The
observed number of nucleotide differences between two particular mammoths was
approximately one-eighth of that between one of them and the African elephant,
corresponding to a separation between the mammoths of 1.5-2.0 Myr. The estimated 
probability that orthologous elephant and mammoth amino acids differ is 0.002,
corresponding to about one residue per protein. Differences were discovered
between mammoth and African elephant in amino-acid positions that are otherwise
invariant over several billion years of combined mammalian evolution. This study 
shows that nuclear genome sequencing of extinct species can reveal population
differences not evident from the fossil record, and perhaps even discover genetic
factors that affect extinction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07446 
PMID: 19020620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):377-81. doi: 10.1038/nature07429.

Long-period earthquakes and co-eruptive dome inflation seen with particle image
velocimetry.

Johnson JB(1), Lees JM, Gerst A, Sahagian D, Varley N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Environmental Science, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, New
Mexico 87801, USA. jeff.johnson@ees.nmt.edu

Dome growth and explosive degassing are fundamental processes in the cycle of
continental arc volcanism. Because both processes generate seismic energy,
geophysical field studies of volcanic processes are often grounded in the
interpretation of volcanic earthquakes. Although previous seismic studies have
provided important constraints on volcano dynamics, such inversion results do not
uniquely constrain magma source dimension and material properties. Here we report
combined optical geodetic and seismic observations that robustly constrain the
sources of long-period volcanic earthquakes coincident with frequent explosive
eruptions at the volcano Santiaguito, in Guatemala. The acceleration of dome
deformation, extracted from high-resolution optical image processing, is shown to
be associated with recorded long-period seismic sources and the frequency content
of seismic signals measured across a broadband network. These earthquake sources 
are observed as abrupt subvertical surface displacements of the dome, in which
20-50-cm uplift originates at the central vent and propagates at approximately 50
m s(-1) towards the 200-m-diameter periphery. Episodic shifts of the 20-80-m
thick dome induce peak forces greater than 10(9) N and reflect surface
manifestations of the volcanic long-period earthquakes, a broad class of volcano 
seismic activity that is poorly understood and observed at many volcanic centres 
worldwide. On the basis of these observations, the abrupt mass shift of
solidified domes, conduit magma or magma pads may play a part in generating
long-period earthquakes at silicic volcanic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07429 
PMID: 19020619 


147. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):373-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07531.

Glacial greenhouse-gas fluctuations controlled by ocean circulation changes.

Schmittner A(1), Galbraith ED.

Author information: 
(1)College of Oceanic & Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University, Corvallis,
Oregon 97331, USA. aschmitt@coas.oregonstate.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):331-3.

Earth's climate and the concentrations of the atmospheric greenhouse gases carbon
dioxide (CO(2)) and nitrous oxide (N(2)O) varied strongly on millennial
timescales during past glacial periods. Large and rapid warming events in
Greenland and the North Atlantic were followed by more gradual cooling, and are
highly correlated with fluctuations of N(2)O as recorded in ice cores. Antarctic 
temperature variations, on the other hand, were smaller and more gradual, showed 
warming during the Greenland cold phase and cooling while the North Atlantic was 
warm, and were highly correlated with fluctuations in CO(2). Abrupt changes in
the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) have often been invoked to
explain the physical characteristics of these Dansgaard-Oeschger climate
oscillations, but the mechanisms for the greenhouse-gas variations and their
linkage to the AMOC have remained unclear. Here we present simulations with a
coupled model of glacial climate and biogeochemical cycles, forced only with
changes in the AMOC. The model simultaneously reproduces characteristic features 
of the Dansgaard-Oeschger temperature, as well as CO(2) and N(2)O fluctuations.
Despite significant changes in the land carbon inventory, CO(2) variations on
millennial timescales are dominated by slow changes in the deep ocean inventory
of biologically sequestered carbon and are correlated with Antarctic temperature 
and Southern Ocean stratification. In contrast, N(2)O co-varies more rapidly with
Greenland temperatures owing to fast adjustments of the thermocline oxygen
budget. These results suggest that ocean circulation changes were the primary
mechanism that drove glacial CO(2) and N(2)O fluctuations on millennial
timescales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07531 
PMID: 19020618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):369-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07570.

Twinning superlattices in indium phosphide nanowires.

Algra RE(1), Verheijen MA, Borgström MT, Feiner LF, Immink G, van Enckevort WJ,
Vlieg E, Bakkers EP.

Author information: 
(1)Materials Innovation Institute (M2i), 2628CD Delft, The Netherlands.

Semiconducting nanowires offer the possibility of nearly unlimited complex
bottom-up design, which allows for new device concepts. However, essential
parameters that determine the electronic quality of the wires, and which have not
been controlled yet for the III-V compound semiconductors, are the wire crystal
structure and the stacking fault density. In addition, a significant feature
would be to have a constant spacing between rotational twins in the wires such
that a twinning superlattice is formed, as this is predicted to induce a direct
bandgap in normally indirect bandgap semiconductors, such as silicon and gallium 
phosphide. Optically active versions of these technologically relevant
semiconductors could have a significant impact on the electronics and optics
industry. Here we show first that we can control the crystal structure of indium 
phosphide (InP) nanowires by using impurity dopants. We have found that zinc
decreases the activation barrier for two-dimensional nucleation growth of
zinc-blende InP and therefore promotes crystallization of the InP nanowires in
the zinc-blende, instead of the commonly found wurtzite, crystal structure. More 
importantly, we then demonstrate that we can, once we have enforced the
zinc-blende crystal structure, induce twinning superlattices with long-range
order in InP nanowires. We can tune the spacing of the superlattices by changing 
the wire diameter and the zinc concentration, and we present a model based on the
distortion of the catalyst droplet in response to the evolution of the
cross-sectional shape of the nanowires to quantitatively explain the formation of
the periodic twinning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07570 
PMID: 19020617 


149. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):366-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07431.

Isotropic quantum scattering and unconventional superconductivity.

Park T(1), Sidorov VA, Ronning F, Zhu JX, Tokiwa Y, Lee H, Bauer ED, Movshovich
R, Sarrao JL, Thompson JD.

Author information: 
(1)Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA.
tuson@lanl.gov

Superconductivity without phonons has been proposed for strongly correlated
electron materials that are tuned close to a zero-temperature magnetic
instability of itinerant charge carriers. Near this boundary, quantum
fluctuations of magnetic degrees of freedom assume the role of phonons in
conventional superconductors, creating an attractive interaction that 'glues'
electrons into superconducting pairs. Here we show that superconductivity can
arise from a very different spectrum of fluctuations associated with a local (or 
Kondo-breakdown) quantum critical point that is revealed in isotropic scattering 
of charge carriers and a sublinear, temperature-dependent electrical resistivity.
At this critical point, accessed by applying pressure to the strongly correlated,
local-moment antiferromagnet CeRhIn(5), magnetic and charge fluctuations coexist 
and produce electronic scattering that is maximal at the optimal pressure for
superconductivity. This previously unanticipated source of pairing glue opens
possibilities for understanding and discovering new unconventional forms of
superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07431 
PMID: 19020616 


150. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):362-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07477.

An excess of cosmic ray electrons at energies of 300-800 GeV.

Chang J(1), Adams JH, Ahn HS, Bashindzhagyan GL, Christl M, Ganel O, Guzik TG,
Isbert J, Kim KC, Kuznetsov EN, Panasyuk MI, Panov AD, Schmidt WK, Seo ES,
Sokolskaya NV, Watts JW, Wefel JP, Wu J, Zatsepin VI.

Author information: 
(1)Purple Mountain Observatory, CAS, 2 West Beijing Road, Nanjing 210008, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):329-30.

Galactic cosmic rays consist of protons, electrons and ions, most of which are
believed to be accelerated to relativistic speeds in supernova remnants. All
components of the cosmic rays show an intensity that decreases as a power law
with increasing energy (for example as E(-2.7)). Electrons in particular lose
energy rapidly through synchrotron and inverse Compton processes, resulting in a 
relatively short lifetime (about 10(5) years) and a rapidly falling intensity,
which raises the possibility of seeing the contribution from individual nearby
sources (less than one kiloparsec away). Here we report an excess of galactic
cosmic-ray electrons at energies of approximately 300-800 GeV, which indicates a 
nearby source of energetic electrons. Such a source could be an unseen
astrophysical object (such as a pulsar or micro-quasar) that accelerates
electrons to those energies, or the electrons could arise from the annihilation
of dark matter particles (such as a Kaluza-Klein particle with a mass of about
620 GeV).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07477 
PMID: 19020615 


151. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):357-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07470.

Identification of Holliday junction resolvases from humans and yeast.

Ip SC(1), Rass U, Blanco MG, Flynn HR, Skehel JM, West SC.

Author information: 
(1)Genetic Recombination Laboratory, Cancer Research UK, London Research
Institute, Clare Hall Laboratories, South Mimms, Herts EN6 3LD, UK.

Four-way DNA intermediates, also known as Holliday junctions, are formed during
homologous recombination and DNA repair, and their resolution is necessary for
proper chromosome segregation. Here we identify nucleases from Saccharomyces
cerevisiae and human cells that promote Holliday junction resolution, in a manner
analogous to that shown by the Escherichia coli Holliday junction resolvase RuvC.
The human Holliday junction resolvase, GEN1, and its yeast orthologue, Yen1, were
independently identified using two distinct experimental approaches: GEN1 was
identified by mass spectrometry following extensive fractionation of HeLa
cell-free extracts, whereas Yen1 was detected by screening a yeast gene fusion
library for nucleases capable of Holliday junction resolution. The eukaryotic
Holliday junction resolvases represent a new subclass of the Rad2/XPG family of
nucleases. Recombinant GEN1 and Yen1 resolve Holliday junctions by the
introduction of symmetrically related cuts across the junction point, to produce 
nicked duplex products in which the nicks can be readily ligated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07470 
PMID: 19020614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):339-43. doi: 10.1038/nature07518.

A role for Rhesus factor Rhcg in renal ammonium excretion and male fertility.

Biver S(1), Belge H, Bourgeois S, Van Vooren P, Nowik M, Scohy S, Houillier P,
Szpirer J, Szpirer C, Wagner CA, Devuyst O, Marini AM.

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles (U.L.B.), Institut de Biologie et de Médecine
Moléculaires, Laboratoire de Biologie du Développement, Gosselies, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):336-7.

The kidney has an important role in the regulation of acid-base homeostasis.
Renal ammonium production and excretion are essential for net acid excretion
under basal conditions and during metabolic acidosis. Ammonium is secreted into
the urine by the collecting duct, a distal nephron segment where ammonium
transport is believed to occur by non-ionic NH(3) diffusion coupled to H(+)
secretion. Here we show that this process is largely dependent on the Rhesus
factor Rhcg. Mice lacking Rhcg have abnormal urinary acidification due to
impaired ammonium excretion on acid loading-a feature of distal renal tubular
acidosis. In vitro microperfused collecting ducts of Rhcg(-/-) acid-loaded mice
show reduced apical permeability to NH(3) and impaired transepithelial NH(3)
transport. Furthermore, Rhcg is localized in epididymal epithelial cells and is
required for normal fertility and epididymal fluid pH. We anticipate a critical
role for Rhcg in ammonium handling and pH homeostasis both in the kidney and the 
male reproductive tract.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07518 
PMID: 19020613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):400-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07388. Epub 2008 Oct 19.

The zinc-finger protein Zelda is a key activator of the early zygotic genome in
Drosophila.

Liang HL(1), Nien CY, Liu HY, Metzstein MM, Kirov N, Rushlow C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, New
York, New York 10003, USA.

In all animals, the initial events of embryogenesis are controlled by maternal
gene products that are deposited into the developing oocyte. At some point after 
fertilization, control of embryogenesis is transferred to the zygotic genome in a
process called the maternal-to-zygotic transition. During this time, many
maternal RNAs are degraded and transcription of zygotic RNAs ensues. There is a
long-standing question as to which factors regulate these events. The recent
findings that microRNAs and Smaug mediate maternal transcript degradation have
shed new light on this aspect of the problem. However, the transcription
factor(s) that activate the zygotic genome remain elusive. The discovery that
many of the early transcribed genes in Drosophila share a cis-regulatory heptamer
motif, CAGGTAG and related sequences, collectively referred to as TAGteam sites
raised the possibility that a dedicated transcription factor could interact with 
these sites to activate transcription. Here we report that the zinc-finger
protein Zelda (Zld; Zinc-finger early Drosophila activator) binds specifically to
these sites and is capable of activating transcription in transient transfection 
assays. Mutant embryos lacking zld are defective in cellular blastoderm
formation, and fail to activate many genes essential for cellularization, sex
determination and pattern formation. Global expression profiling confirmed that
Zld has an important role in the activation of the early zygotic genome and
suggests that Zld may also regulate maternal RNA degradation during the
maternal-to-zygotic transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07388 
PMCID: PMC2597674
PMID: 18931655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):391-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07382. Epub 2008 Oct 5.

Guarding the gateway to cortex with attention in visual thalamus.

McAlonan K(1), Cavanaugh J, Wurtz RH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. km@nei.nih.gov

The massive visual input from the eye to the brain requires selective processing 
of some visual information at the expense of other information, a process
referred to as visual attention. Increases in the responses of visual neurons
with attention have been extensively studied along the visual processing streams 
in monkey cerebral cortex, from primary visual areas to parietal and frontal
cortex. Here we show, by recording neurons in attending macaque monkeys (Macaca
mulatta), that attention modulates visual signals before they even reach cortex
by increasing responses of both magnocellular and parvocellular neurons in the
first relay between retina and cortex, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). At
the same time, attention decreases neuronal responses in the adjacent thalamic
reticular nucleus (TRN). Crick argued for such modulation of the LGN by observing
that it is inhibited by the TRN, and suggested that "if the thalamus is the
gateway to the cortex, the reticular complex might be described as the guardian
of the gateway", a reciprocal relationship we now show to be more than just
hypothesis. The reciprocal modulation in LGN and TRN appears only during the
initial visual response, but the modulation of LGN reappears later in the
response, suggesting separate early and late sources of attentional modulation in
LGN.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07382 
PMCID: PMC2713033
PMID: 18849967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):413-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07350. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

The ion pathway through the opened Na(+),K(+)-ATPase pump.

Takeuchi A(1), Reyes N, Artigas P, Gadsby DC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cardiac/Membrane Physiology, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10065, USA.

P-type ATPases pump ions across membranes, generating steep electrochemical
gradients that are essential for the function of all cells. Access to the
ion-binding sites within the pumps alternates between the two sides of the
membrane to avoid the dissipation of the gradients that would occur during
simultaneous access. In Na(+),K(+)-ATPase pumps treated with the marine agent
palytoxin, this strict alternation is disrupted and binding sites are sometimes
simultaneously accessible from both sides of the membrane, transforming the pumps
into ion channels (see, for example, refs 2, 3). Current recordings in these
channels can monitor accessibility of introduced cysteine residues to
water-soluble sulphydryl-specific reagents. We found previously that Na(+),K(+)
pump-channels open to the extracellular surface through a deep and wide vestibule
that emanates from a narrower pathway between transmembrane helices 4 and 6 (TM4 
and TM6). Here we report that cysteine scans from TM1 to TM6 reveal a single
unbroken cation pathway that traverses palytoxin-bound Na(+),K(+) pump-channels
from one side of the membrane to the other. This pathway comprises residues from 
TM1, TM2, TM4 and TM6, passes through ion-binding site II, and is probably
conserved in structurally and evolutionarily related P-type pumps, such as
sarcoplasmic- and endoplasmic-reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPases and H(+),K(+)-ATPases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07350 
PMCID: PMC2585603
PMID: 18849964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):344-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07404. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

Generation of pluripotent stem cells from adult human testis.

Conrad S(1), Renninger M, Hennenlotter J, Wiesner T, Just L, Bonin M, Aicher W,
Bühring HJ, Mattheus U, Mack A, Wagner HJ, Minger S, Matzkies M, Reppel M,
Hescheler J, Sievert KD, Stenzl A, Skutella T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Department of Experimental Embryology, Tübingen,
Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1044.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):338.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 24;465(7301):E1; discussion E3.
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):593.

Human primordial germ cells and mouse neonatal and adult germline stem cells are 
pluripotent and show similar properties to embryonic stem cells. Here we report
the successful establishment of human adult germline stem cells derived from
spermatogonial cells of adult human testis. Cellular and molecular
characterization of these cells revealed many similarities to human embryonic
stem cells, and the germline stem cells produced teratomas after transplantation 
into immunodeficient mice. The human adult germline stem cells differentiated
into various types of somatic cells of all three germ layers when grown under
conditions used to induce the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells. We
conclude that the generation of human adult germline stem cells from testicular
biopsies may provide simple and non-controversial access to individual cell-based
therapy without the ethical and immunological problems associated with human
embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07404 
PMID: 18849962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 2008 Nov 20;456(7220):382-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07309. Epub 2008 Sep 17.

Acoel development indicates the independent evolution of the bilaterian mouth and
anus.

Hejnol A(1), Martindale MQ.

Author information: 
(1)Kewalo Marine Laboratory, PBRC, University of Hawaii, 41 Ahui Street,
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813, USA. hejnol@hawaii.edu

Most bilaterian animals possess a through gut with a separate mouth and anus. It 
is commonly believed that during the transition from radial to bilateral
symmetry, both openings evolved simultaneously by the lateral closure of a
slit-like blastopore. Molecular phylogenies however, place the acoel flatworms,
which have only one opening to their digestive system, as the sister group to all
remaining Bilateria. To address how this single body opening is related to the
mouth and anus of the protostomes and deuterostomes, we studied the expression of
genes involved in bilaterian foregut and hindgut patterning during the
development of the acoel Convolutriloba longifissura. Here we show that the genes
brachyury and goosecoid are expressed in association with the acoel mouth,
suggesting that this single opening is homologous to the mouth of other
bilaterians. In addition, we find that the genes caudal, orthopedia and
brachyury-which are expressed in various bilaterian hindguts-are expressed in a
small region at the posterior end of the animal, separated from the anterior oral
brachyury-expressing region by a dorsal domain of ectodermal bmp2/4 expression.
These results contradict the hypothesis that the bilaterian mouth and anus
evolved simultaneously from a common blastoporal opening, and suggest that a
through gut might have evolved independently in different animal lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07309 
PMID: 18806777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07538.

Associative learning of social value.

Behrens TE(1), Hunt LT, Woolrich MW, Rushworth MF.

Author information: 
(1)FMRIB Centre, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford OX3 9DU,
UK. behrens@fmrib.ox.ac.uk

Our decisions are guided by information learnt from our environment. This
information may come via personal experiences of reward, but also from the
behaviour of social partners. Social learning is widely held to be distinct from 
other forms of learning in its mechanism and neural implementation; it is often
assumed to compete with simpler mechanisms, such as reward-based associative
learning, to drive behaviour. Recently, neural signals have been observed during 
social exchange reminiscent of signals seen in studies of associative learning.
Here we demonstrate that social information may be acquired using the same
associative processes assumed to underlie reward-based learning. We find that key
computational variables for learning in the social and reward domains are
processed in a similar fashion, but in parallel neural processing streams. Two
neighbouring divisions of the anterior cingulate cortex were central to learning 
about social and reward-based information, and for determining the extent to
which each source of information guides behaviour. When making a decision,
however, the information learnt using these parallel streams was combined within 
ventromedial prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that human social
valuation can be realized by means of the same associative processes previously
established for learning other, simpler, features of the environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07538 
PMCID: PMC2605577
PMID: 19005555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):235-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07248.

The interaction between predation and competition.

Chesson P(1), Kuang JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA. pchesson@u.arizona.edu

Competition and predation are the most heavily investigated species interactions 
in ecology, dominating studies of species diversity maintenance. However, these
two interactions are most commonly viewed highly asymmetrically. Competition for 
resources is seen as the primary interaction limiting diversity, with predation
modifying what competition does, although theoretical models have long supported 
diverse views. Here we show, using a comprehensive three-trophic-level model,
that competition and predation should be viewed symmetrically: these two
interactions are equally able to either limit or promote diversity. Diversity
maintenance requires within-species density feedback loops to be stronger than
between-species feedback loops. We quantify the contributions of predation and
competition to these loops in a simple, interpretable form, showing their
equivalent potential to strengthen or weaken diversity maintenance. Moreover, we 
show that competition and predation can undermine each other, with the tendency
of the stronger interaction to promote or limit diversity prevailing. The past
failure to appreciate the symmetrical effects and interactions of competition and
predation has unduly restricted diversity maintenance studies. A multitrophic
perspective should be adopted to examine a greater variety of possible effects of
predation than generally considered in the past. Conservation and management
strategies need to be much more concerned with the implications of changes in the
strengths of trophic interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07248 
PMID: 19005554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):231-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07412.

Radiative conductivity in the Earth's lower mantle.

Goncharov AF(1), Haugen BD, Struzhkin VV, Beck P, Jacobsen SD.

Author information: 
(1)Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, 5251 Broad Branch 
Road NW, Washington, DC 20015, USA. goncharov@gl.ciw.edu

Iron in crustal and mantle minerals adopts several possible oxidation states:
this has implications for biogeochemical processes, oxygenation of the atmosphere
and the oxidation state of the mantle. In the deep Earth, iron in silicate
perovskite, (Mg(0.9)Fe(0.1))SiO(3), and ferropericlase, (Mg(0.85)Fe(0.15))O,
influences the thermal conductivity of the lower mantle and therefore heat flux
from the core. Little is known, however, about the effect of iron oxidation
states on transport properties. Here we show that the radiative component of
thermal conductivity in the dominant silicate perovskite material of Earth's
lower mantle is controlled by the amount of ferric iron, Fe(3+). We obtained the 
optical absorption spectra of silicate perovskite and ferropericlase at pressures
up to 133 GPa, corresponding to pressures at the core-mantle boundary. Absorption
spectra of ferropericlase up to 800 K and 60 GPa exhibit minimal temperature
dependence. The results on silicate perovskite show that optical absorption in
the visible and near-infrared spectral range is dominated by O-Fe(3+) charge
transfer and Fe(3+)-Fe(2+) intervalence transitions, whereas a contribution from 
the Fe(2+) crystal-field transitions is substantially smaller. The estimated
pressure-dependent radiative conductivity, k(rad), from these data is 2-5 times
lower than previously inferred from model extrapolations, with implications for
the evolution of the mantle, such as generation and stability of thermo-chemical 
plumes in the lower mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07412 
PMID: 19005553 


161. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):226-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07365.

Transient nature of late Pleistocene climate variability.

Crowley TJ(1), Hyde WT.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geosciences, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3JW, UK.
thomas.crowley@ed.ac.uk

Climate in the early Pleistocene varied with a period of 41 kyr and was related
to variations in Earth's obliquity. About 900 kyr ago, variability increased and 
oscillated primarily at a period of approximately 100 kyr, suggesting that the
link was then with the eccentricity of Earth's orbit. This transition has often
been attributed to a nonlinear response to small changes in external boundary
conditions. Here we propose that increasing variablility within the past million 
years may indicate that the climate system was approaching a second climate
bifurcation point, after which it would transition again to a new stable state
characterized by permanent mid-latitude Northern Hemisphere glaciation. From this
perspective the past million years can be viewed as a transient interval in the
evolution of Earth's climate. We support our hypothesis using a coupled
energy-balance/ice-sheet model, which furthermore predicts that the future
transition would involve a large expansion of the Eurasian ice sheet. The process
responsible for the abrupt change seems to be the albedo discontinuity at the
snow-ice edge. The best-fit model run, which explains almost 60% of the variance 
in global ice volume during the past 400 kyr, predicts a rapid transition in the 
geologically near future to the proposed glacial state. Should it be attained,
this state would be more 'symmetric' than the present climate, with comparable
areas of ice/sea-ice cover in each hemisphere, and would represent the
culmination of 50 million years of evolution from bipolar nonglacial climates to 
bipolar glacial climates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07365 
PMID: 19005552 


162. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):222-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07516.

Nanoscale chemical imaging of a working catalyst by scanning transmission X-ray
microscopy.

de Smit E(1), Swart I, Creemer JF, Hoveling GH, Gilles MK, Tyliszczak T, Kooyman 
PJ, Zandbergen HW, Morin C, Weckhuysen BM, de Groot FM.

Author information: 
(1)Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute for Nanomaterials Science, 
Utrecht University, Sorbonnelaan 16, 3584 CA Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):185-6.

The modern chemical industry uses heterogeneous catalysts in almost every
production process. They commonly consist of nanometre-size active components
(typically metals or metal oxides) dispersed on a high-surface-area solid
support, with performance depending on the catalysts' nanometre-size features and
on interactions involving the active components, the support and the reactant and
product molecules. To gain insight into the mechanisms of heterogeneous
catalysts, which could guide the design of improved or novel catalysts, it is
thus necessary to have a detailed characterization of the physicochemical
composition of heterogeneous catalysts in their working state at the nanometre
scale. Scanning probe microscopy methods have been used to study inorganic
catalyst phases at subnanometre resolution, but detailed chemical information of 
the materials in their working state is often difficult to obtain. By contrast,
optical microspectroscopic approaches offer much flexibility for in situ chemical
characterization; however, this comes at the expense of limited spatial
resolution. A recent development promising high spatial resolution and chemical
characterization capabilities is scanning transmission X-ray microscopy, which
has been used in a proof-of-principle study to characterize a solid catalyst.
Here we show that when adapting a nanoreactor specially designed for
high-resolution electron microscopy, scanning transmission X-ray microscopy can
be used at atmospheric pressure and up to 350 degrees C to monitor in situ phase 
changes in a complex iron-based Fisher-Tropsch catalyst and the nature and
location of carbon species produced. We expect that our system, which is capable 
of operating up to 500 degrees C, will open new opportunities for
nanometre-resolution imaging of a range of important chemical processes taking
place on solids in gaseous or liquid environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07516 
PMID: 19005551 


163. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):218-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07530.

Complete quantum control of a single quantum dot spin using ultrafast optical
pulses.

Press D(1), Ladd TD, Zhang B, Yamamoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)E. L. Ginzton Laboratory, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA. dlpress@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):182-3.

A basic requirement for quantum information processing systems is the ability to 
completely control the state of a single qubit. For qubits based on electron
spin, a universal single-qubit gate is realized by a rotation of the spin by any 
angle about an arbitrary axis. Driven, coherent Rabi oscillations between two
spin states can be used to demonstrate control of the rotation angle. Ramsey
interference, produced by two coherent spin rotations separated by a variable
time delay, demonstrates control over the axis of rotation. Full quantum control 
of an electron spin in a quantum dot has previously been demonstrated using
resonant radio-frequency pulses that require many spin precession periods.
However, optical manipulation of the spin allows quantum control on a picosecond 
or femtosecond timescale, permitting an arbitrary rotation to be completed within
one spin precession period. Recent work in optical single-spin control has
demonstrated the initialization of a spin state in a quantum dot, as well as the 
ultrafast manipulation of coherence in a largely unpolarized single-spin state.
Here we demonstrate complete coherent control over an initialized electron spin
state in a quantum dot using picosecond optical pulses. First we vary the
intensity of a single optical pulse to observe over six Rabi oscillations between
the two spin states; then we apply two sequential pulses to observe high-contrast
Ramsey interference. Such a two-pulse sequence realizes an arbitrary single-qubit
gate completed on a picosecond timescale. Along with the spin initialization and 
final projective measurement of the spin state, these results demonstrate a
complete set of all-optical single-qubit operations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07530 
PMID: 19005550 


164. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):214-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07440.

Complex structure within Saturn's infrared aurora.

Stallard T(1), Miller S, Lystrup M, Achilleos N, Bunce EJ, Arridge CS, Dougherty 
MK, Cowley SW, Badman SV, Talboys DL, Brown RH, Baines KH, Buratti BJ, Clark RN, 
Sotin C, Nicholson PD, Drossart P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leicester, Leicester LE1
7RH, UK. tss@ion.le.ac.uk

The majority of planetary aurorae are produced by electrical currents flowing
between the ionosphere and the magnetosphere which accelerate energetic charged
particles that hit the upper atmosphere. At Saturn, these processes collisionally
excite hydrogen, causing ultraviolet emission, and ionize the hydrogen, leading
to H(3)(+) infrared emission. Although the morphology of these aurorae is
affected by changes in the solar wind, the source of the currents which produce
them is a matter of debate. Recent models predict only weak emission away from
the main auroral oval. Here we report images that show emission both poleward and
equatorward of the main oval (separated by a region of low emission). The
extensive polar emission is highly variable with time, and disappears when the
main oval has a spiral morphology; this suggests that although the polar emission
may be associated with minor increases in the dynamic pressure from the solar
wind, it is not directly linked to strong magnetospheric compressions. This
aurora appears to be unique to Saturn and cannot be explained using our current
understanding of Saturn's magnetosphere. The equatorward arc of emission exists
only on the nightside of the planet, and arises from internal magnetospheric
processes that are currently unknown.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07440 
PMID: 19005549 


165. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):202-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07473.

Deconstructing voltage sensor function and pharmacology in sodium channels.

Bosmans F(1), Martin-Eauclaire MF, Swartz KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Physiology and Biophysics Section, Porter Neuroscience Research
Center, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):183-5.

Voltage-activated sodium (Na(v)) channels are crucial for the generation and
propagation of nerve impulses, and as such are widely targeted by toxins and
drugs. The four voltage sensors in Na(v) channels have distinct amino acid
sequences, raising fundamental questions about their relative contributions to
the function and pharmacology of the channel. Here we use four-fold symmetric
voltage-activated potassium (K(v)) channels as reporters to examine the
contributions of individual S3b-S4 paddle motifs within Na(v) channel voltage
sensors to the kinetics of voltage sensor activation and to forming toxin
receptors. Our results uncover binding sites for toxins from tarantula and
scorpion venom on each of the four paddle motifs in Na(v) channels, and reveal
how paddle-specific interactions can be used to reshape Na(v) channel activity.
One paddle motif is unique in that it slows voltage sensor activation, and toxins
selectively targeting this motif impede Na(v) channel inactivation. This reporter
approach and the principles that emerge will be useful in developing new drugs
for treating pain and Na(v) channelopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07473 
PMCID: PMC2587061
PMID: 19005548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):195-201. doi: 10.1038/nature07569.

Illumination controls differentiation of dopamine neurons regulating behaviour.

Dulcis D(1), Spitzer NC.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Section, Division of Biological Sciences and Center for Molecular
Genetics, Kavli Institute for Brain and Mind, UCSD La Jolla, California
92093-0357, USA. ddulcis@biomail.ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):177-8.

Specification of the appropriate neurotransmitter is a crucial step in neuronal
differentiation because it enables signalling among populations of neurons.
Experimental manipulations demonstrate that both autonomous and
activity-dependent genetic programs contribute to this process during
development, but whether natural environmental stimuli specify transmitter
expression in a neuronal population is unknown. We investigated neurons of the
ventral suprachiasmatic nucleus that regulate neuroendocrine pituitary function
in response to light in teleosts, amphibia and primates. Here we show that
altering light exposure, which changes the sensory input to the circuit
controlling adaptation of skin pigmentation to background, changes the number of 
neurons expressing dopamine in larvae of the amphibian Xenopus laevis in a
circuit-specific and activity-dependent manner. Neurons newly expressing dopamine
then regulate changes in camouflage colouration in response to illumination.
Thus, physiological activity alters the numbers of behaviourally relevant
amine-transmitter-expressing neurons in the brain at postembryonic stages of
development. The results may be pertinent to changes in cognitive states that are
regulated by biogenic amines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07569 
PMCID: PMC2803045
PMID: 19005547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):189-94. doi: 10.1038/nature07448.

Using temperature to analyse temporal dynamics in the songbird motor pathway.

Long MA(1), Fee MS.

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):187-8.

Many complex behaviours, like speech or music, have a hierarchical organization
with structure on many timescales, but it is not known how the brain controls the
timing of behavioural sequences, or whether different circuits control different 
timescales of the behaviour. Here we address these issues by using temperature to
manipulate the biophysical dynamics in different regions of the songbird
forebrain involved in song production. We find that cooling the premotor nucleus 
HVC (formerly known as the high vocal centre) slows song speed across all
timescales by up to 45 per cent but only slightly alters the acoustic structure, 
whereas cooling the downstream motor nucleus RA (robust nucleus of the
arcopallium) has no observable effect on song timing. Our observations suggest
that dynamics within HVC are involved in the control of song timing, perhaps
through a chain-like organization. Local manipulation of brain temperature should
be broadly applicable to the identification of neural circuitry that controls the
timing of behavioural sequences and, more generally, to the study of the origin
and role of oscillatory and other forms of brain dynamics in neural systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07448 
PMCID: PMC2723166
PMID: 19005546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):E1; discussion E1-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07402.

The origin of hydrogen around HD 209458b.

Lecavelier des Etangs A(1), Vidal-Madjar A, Désert JM.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, UMR 7095, Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris, 98bis boulevard Arago,
F-75014 Paris, France. lecaveli@iap.fr

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):970-2.

Using numerical simulation, Holmström et al. proposed a plausible alternative
explanation of the observed Lyman-alpha absorption that was seen during the
transit of HD 209458b (ref. 2). They conclude that radiation pressure alone
cannot explain the observations and that a peculiar stellar wind is needed. Here 
we show that radiation pressure alone can in fact produce the observed
high-velocity hydrogen atoms. We also emphasize that even if the stellar wind is 
responsible for the observed hydrogen, to have a sufficient number of atoms for
charge exchange with stellar wind, the energetic neutral atom (ENA) model also
needs a significant escape from the planet atmosphere of similar amplitude as
quoted in ref. 2.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07402 
PMID: 19005500 


169. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):239-44. doi: 10.1038/nature07410. Epub 2008 Oct 15.

The Phaeodactylum genome reveals the evolutionary history of diatom genomes.

Bowler C(1), Allen AE, Badger JH, Grimwood J, Jabbari K, Kuo A, Maheswari U,
Martens C, Maumus F, Otillar RP, Rayko E, Salamov A, Vandepoele K, Beszteri B,
Gruber A, Heijde M, Katinka M, Mock T, Valentin K, Verret F, Berges JA, Brownlee 
C, Cadoret JP, Chiovitti A, Choi CJ, Coesel S, De Martino A, Detter JC, Durkin C,
Falciatore A, Fournet J, Haruta M, Huysman MJ, Jenkins BD, Jiroutova K, Jorgensen
RE, Joubert Y, Kaplan A, Kröger N, Kroth PG, La Roche J, Lindquist E, Lommer M,
Martin-Jézéquel V, Lopez PJ, Lucas S, Mangogna M, McGinnis K, Medlin LK, Montsant
A, Oudot-Le Secq MP, Napoli C, Obornik M, Parker MS, Petit JL, Porcel BM, Poulsen
N, Robison M, Rychlewski L, Rynearson TA, Schmutz J, Shapiro H, Siaut M, Stanley 
M, Sussman MR, Taylor AR, Vardi A, von Dassow P, Vyverman W, Willis A, Wyrwicz
LS, Rokhsar DS, Weissenbach J, Armbrust EV, Green BR, Van de Peer Y, Grigoriev
IV.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS UMR8186, Department of Biology, Ecole Normale Supérieure, 46 rue d'Ulm,
75005 Paris, France. cbowler@biologie.ens.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):179-81.

Diatoms are photosynthetic secondary endosymbionts found throughout marine and
freshwater environments, and are believed to be responsible for around one-fifth 
of the primary productivity on Earth. The genome sequence of the marine centric
diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana was recently reported, revealing a wealth of
information about diatom biology. Here we report the complete genome sequence of 
the pennate diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum and compare it with that of T.
pseudonana to clarify evolutionary origins, functional significance and ubiquity 
of these features throughout diatoms. In spite of the fact that the pennate and
centric lineages have only been diverging for 90 million years, their genome
structures are dramatically different and a substantial fraction of genes (
approximately 40%) are not shared by these representatives of the two lineages.
Analysis of molecular divergence compared with yeasts and metazoans reveals rapid
rates of gene diversification in diatoms. Contributing factors include selective 
gene family expansions, differential losses and gains of genes and introns, and
differential mobilization of transposable elements. Most significantly, we
document the presence of hundreds of genes from bacteria. More than 300 of these 
gene transfers are found in both diatoms, attesting to their ancient origins, and
many are likely to provide novel possibilities for metabolite management and for 
perception of environmental signals. These findings go a long way towards
explaining the incredible diversity and success of the diatoms in contemporary
oceans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07410 
PMID: 18923393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature07349. Epub 2008 Oct 5.

A fasting inducible switch modulates gluconeogenesis via activator/coactivator
exchange.

Liu Y(1), Dentin R, Chen D, Hedrick S, Ravnskjaer K, Schenk S, Milne J, Meyers
DJ, Cole P, Yates J 3rd, Olefsky J, Guarente L, Montminy M.

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North Torrey Pines Rd, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

During early fasting, increases in skeletal muscle proteolysis liberate free
amino acids for hepatic gluconeogenesis in response to pancreatic glucagon.
Hepatic glucose output diminishes during the late protein-sparing phase of
fasting, when ketone body production by the liver supplies compensatory fuel for 
glucose-dependent tissues. Glucagon stimulates the gluconeogenic program by
triggering the dephosphorylation and nuclear translocation of the CREB regulated 
transcription coactivator 2 (CRTC2; also known as TORC2), while parallel
decreases in insulin signalling augment gluconeogenic gene expression through the
dephosphorylation and nuclear shuttling of forkhead box O1 (FOXO1). Here we show 
that a fasting-inducible switch, consisting of the histone acetyltransferase p300
and the nutrient-sensing deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), maintains energy balance 
in mice through the sequential induction of CRTC2 and FOXO1. After glucagon
induction, CRTC2 stimulated gluconeogenic gene expression by an association with 
p300, which we show here is also activated by dephosphorylation at Ser 89 during 
fasting. In turn, p300 increased hepatic CRTC2 activity by acetylating it at Lys 
628, a site that also targets CRTC2 for degradation after its ubiquitination by
the E3 ligase constitutive photomorphogenic protein (COP1). Glucagon effects were
attenuated during late fasting, when CRTC2 was downregulated owing to
SIRT1-mediated deacetylation and when FOXO1 supported expression of the
gluconeogenic program. Disrupting SIRT1 activity, by liver-specific knockout of
the Sirt1 gene or by administration of a SIRT1 antagonist, increased CRTC2
activity and glucose output, whereas exposure to SIRT1 agonists reduced them. In 
view of the reciprocal activation of FOXO1 and its coactivator peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha, encoded by 
Ppargc1a) by SIRT1 activators, our results illustrate how the exchange of two
gluconeogenic regulators during fasting maintains energy balance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07349 
PMCID: PMC2597669
PMID: 18849969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):259-63. doi: 10.1038/nature07416. Epub 2008 Oct 5.

A key role for autophagy and the autophagy gene Atg16l1 in mouse and human
intestinal Paneth cells.

Cadwell K(1), Liu JY, Brown SL, Miyoshi H, Loh J, Lennerz JK, Kishi C, Kc W,
Carrero JA, Hunt S, Stone CD, Brunt EM, Xavier RJ, Sleckman BP, Li E, Mizushima
N, Stappenbeck TS, Virgin HW 4th.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2009 Oct;137(4):1527-9.

Susceptibility to Crohn's disease, a complex inflammatory disease involving the
small intestine, is controlled by over 30 loci. One Crohn's disease risk allele
is in ATG16L1, a gene homologous to the essential yeast autophagy gene ATG16
(ref. 2). It is not known how ATG16L1 or autophagy contributes to intestinal
biology or Crohn's disease pathogenesis. To address these questions, we generated
and characterized mice that are hypomorphic for ATG16L1 protein expression, and
validated conclusions on the basis of studies in these mice by analysing
intestinal tissues that we collected from Crohn's disease patients carrying the
Crohn's disease risk allele of ATG16L1. Here we show that ATG16L1 is a bona fide 
autophagy protein. Within the ileal epithelium, both ATG16L1 and a second
essential autophagy protein ATG5 are selectively important for the biology of the
Paneth cell, a specialized epithelial cell that functions in part by secretion of
granule contents containing antimicrobial peptides and other proteins that alter 
the intestinal environment. ATG16L1- and ATG5-deficient Paneth cells exhibited
notable abnormalities in the granule exocytosis pathway. In addition,
transcriptional analysis revealed an unexpected gain of function specific to
ATG16L1-deficient Paneth cells including increased expression of genes involved
in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signalling and lipid
metabolism, of acute phase reactants and of two adipocytokines, leptin and
adiponectin, known to directly influence intestinal injury responses.
Importantly, Crohn's disease patients homozygous for the ATG16L1 Crohn's disease 
risk allele displayed Paneth cell granule abnormalities similar to those observed
in autophagy-protein-deficient mice and expressed increased levels of leptin
protein. Thus, ATG16L1, and probably the process of autophagy, have a role within
the intestinal epithelium of mice and Crohn's disease patients by selective
effects on the cell biology and specialized regulatory properties of Paneth
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07416 
PMCID: PMC2695978
PMID: 18849966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07383. Epub 2008 Oct 5.

Loss of the autophagy protein Atg16L1 enhances endotoxin-induced IL-1beta
production.

Saitoh T(1), Fujita N, Jang MH, Uematsu S, Yang BG, Satoh T, Omori H, Noda T,
Yamamoto N, Komatsu M, Tanaka K, Kawai T, Tsujimura T, Takeuchi O, Yoshimori T,
Akira S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Host Defense, WPI Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka
University, 3-1 Yamada-oka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Systems for protein degradation are essential for tight control of the
inflammatory immune response. Autophagy, a bulk degradation system that delivers 
cytoplasmic constituents into autolysosomes, controls degradation of long-lived
proteins, insoluble protein aggregates and invading microbes, and is suggested to
be involved in the regulation of inflammation. However, the mechanism underlying 
the regulation of inflammatory response by autophagy is poorly understood. Here
we show that Atg16L1 (autophagy-related 16-like 1), which is implicated in
Crohn's disease, regulates endotoxin-induced inflammasome activation in mice.
Atg16L1-deficiency disrupts the recruitment of the Atg12-Atg5 conjugate to the
isolation membrane, resulting in a loss of microtubule-associated protein 1 light
chain 3 (LC3) conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine. Consequently, both
autophagosome formation and degradation of long-lived proteins are severely
impaired in Atg16L1-deficient cells. Following stimulation with
lipopolysaccharide, a ligand for Toll-like receptor 4 (refs 8, 9),
Atg16L1-deficient macrophages produce high amounts of the inflammatory cytokines 
IL-1beta and IL-18. In lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages,
Atg16L1-deficiency causes Toll/IL-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor inducing
IFN-beta (TRIF)-dependent activation of caspase-1, leading to increased
production of IL-1beta. Mice lacking Atg16L1 in haematopoietic cells are highly
susceptible to dextran sulphate sodium-induced acute colitis, which is alleviated
by injection of anti-IL-1beta and IL-18 antibodies, indicating the importance of 
Atg16L1 in the suppression of intestinal inflammation. These results demonstrate 
that Atg16L1 is an essential component of the autophagic machinery responsible
for control of the endotoxin-induced inflammatory immune response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07383 
PMID: 18849965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):255-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07380. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

Stereocilin-deficient mice reveal the origin of cochlear waveform distortions.

Verpy E(1), Weil D, Leibovici M, Goodyear RJ, Hamard G, Houdon C, Lefèvre GM,
Hardelin JP, Richardson GP, Avan P, Petit C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité de Génétique et Physiologie de l'Audition, F75015
Paris, France. everpy@pasteur.fr

Although the cochlea is an amplifier and a remarkably sensitive and finely tuned 
detector of sounds, it also produces conspicuous mechanical and electrical
waveform distortions. These distortions reflect nonlinear mechanical interactions
within the cochlea. By allowing one tone to suppress another (masking effect),
they contribute to speech intelligibility. Tones can also combine to produce
sounds with frequencies not present in the acoustic stimulus. These sounds
compose the otoacoustic emissions that are extensively used to screen hearing in 
newborns. Because both cochlear amplification and distortion originate from the
outer hair cells-one of the two types of sensory receptor cells-it has been
speculated that they stem from a common mechanism. Here we show that the
nonlinearity underlying cochlear waveform distortions relies on the presence of
stereocilin, a protein defective in a recessive form of human deafness.
Stereocilin was detected in association with horizontal top connectors, lateral
links that join adjacent stereocilia within the outer hair cell's hair bundle.
These links were absent in stereocilin-null mutant mice, which became
progressively deaf. At the onset of hearing, however, their cochlear sensitivity 
and frequency tuning were almost normal, although masking was much reduced and
both acoustic and electrical waveform distortions were completely lacking. From
this unique functional situation, we conclude that the main source of cochlear
waveform distortions is a deflection-dependent hair bundle stiffness resulting
from constraints imposed by the horizontal top connectors, and not from the
intrinsic nonlinear behaviour of the mechanoelectrical transducer channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07380 
PMCID: PMC3338146
PMID: 18849963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07406. Epub 2008 Oct 1.

Oligopotent stem cells are distributed throughout the mammalian ocular surface.

Majo F(1), Rochat A, Nicolas M, Jaoudé GA, Barrandon Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Stem Cell Dynamics, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
(EPFL), 1015 Lausanne CH, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):E10-1; discussion E11.

The integrity of the cornea, the most anterior part of the eye, is indispensable 
for vision. Forty-five million individuals worldwide are bilaterally blind and
another 135 million have severely impaired vision in both eyes because of loss of
corneal transparency; treatments range from local medications to corneal
transplants, and more recently to stem cell therapy. The corneal epithelium is a 
squamous epithelium that is constantly renewing, with a vertical turnover of 7 to
14 days in many mammals. Identification of slow cycling cells (label-retaining
cells) in the limbus of the mouse has led to the notion that the limbus is the
niche for the stem cells responsible for the long-term renewal of the cornea;
hence, the corneal epithelium is supposedly renewed by cells generated at and
migrating from the limbus, in marked opposition to other squamous epithelia in
which each resident stem cell has in charge a limited area of epithelium. Here we
show that the corneal epithelium of the mouse can be serially transplanted, is
self-maintained and contains oligopotent stem cells with the capacity to generate
goblet cells if provided with a conjunctival environment. Furthermore, the entire
ocular surface of the pig, including the cornea, contains oligopotent stem cells 
(holoclones) with the capacity to generate individual colonies of corneal and
conjunctival cells. Therefore, the limbus is not the only niche for corneal stem 
cells and corneal renewal is not different from other squamous epithelia. We
propose a model that unifies our observations with the literature and explains
why the limbal region is enriched in stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07406 
PMID: 18830243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):209-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07315. Epub 2008 Aug 27.

Structure of the guide-strand-containing argonaute silencing complex.

Wang Y(1), Sheng G, Juranek S, Tuschl T, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.

The slicer activity of the RNA-induced silencing complex is associated with
argonaute, the RNase H-like PIWI domain of which catalyses guide-strand-mediated 
sequence-specific cleavage of target messenger RNA. Here we report on the crystal
structure of Thermus thermophilus argonaute bound to a 5'-phosphorylated 21-base 
DNA guide strand, thereby identifying the nucleic-acid-binding channel positioned
between the PAZ- and PIWI-containing lobes, as well as the pivot-like
conformational changes associated with complex formation. The bound guide strand 
is anchored at both of its ends, with the solvent-exposed Watson-Crick edges of
stacked bases 2 to 6 positioned for nucleation with the mRNA target, whereas two 
critically positioned arginines lock bases 10 and 11 at the cleavage site into an
unanticipated orthogonal alignment. Biochemical studies indicate that key amino
acid residues at the active site and those lining the 5'-phosphate-binding pocket
made up of the Mid domain are critical for cleavage activity, whereas alterations
of residues lining the 2-nucleotide 3'-end-binding pocket made up of the PAZ
domain show little effect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07315 
PMCID: PMC4689319
PMID: 18754009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):107-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07343.

Molecular basis of xeroderma pigmentosum group C DNA recognition by engineered
meganucleases.

Redondo P(1), Prieto J, Muñoz IG, Alibés A, Stricher F, Serrano L, Cabaniols JP, 
Daboussi F, Arnould S, Perez C, Duchateau P, Pâques F, Blanco FJ, Montoya G.

Author information: 
(1)Macromolecular Crystallography Group, Spanish National Cancer Research Centre 
(CNIO), c/Melchor Fdez. Almagro 3, 28029 Madrid, Spain.

Xeroderma pigmentosum is a monogenic disease characterized by hypersensitivity to
ultraviolet light. The cells of xeroderma pigmentosum patients are defective in
nucleotide excision repair, limiting their capacity to eliminate
ultraviolet-induced DNA damage, and resulting in a strong predisposition to
develop skin cancers. The use of rare cutting DNA endonucleases-such as homing
endonucleases, also known as meganucleases-constitutes one possible strategy for 
repairing DNA lesions. Homing endonucleases have emerged as highly specific
molecular scalpels that recognize and cleave DNA sites, promoting efficient
homologous gene targeting through double-strand-break-induced homologous
recombination. Here we describe two engineered heterodimeric derivatives of the
homing endonuclease I-CreI, produced by a semi-rational approach. These two
molecules-Amel3-Amel4 and Ini3-Ini4-cleave DNA from the human XPC gene (xeroderma
pigmentosum group C), in vitro and in vivo. Crystal structures of the I-CreI
variants complexed with intact and cleaved XPC target DNA suggest that the
mechanism of DNA recognition and cleavage by the engineered homing endonucleases 
is similar to that of the wild-type I-CreI. Furthermore, these derivatives
induced high levels of specific gene targeting in mammalian cells while
displaying no obvious genotoxicity. Thus, homing endonucleases can be designed to
recognize and cleave the DNA sequences of specific genes, opening up new
possibilities for genome engineering and gene therapy in xeroderma pigmentosum
patients whose illness can be treated ex vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07343 
PMID: 18987743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07442.

Linking climate change to lemming cycles.

Kausrud KL(1), Mysterud A, Steen H, Vik JO, Østbye E, Cazelles B, Framstad E,
Eikeset AM, Mysterud I, Solhøy T, Stenseth NC.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, University of Oslo, PO Box
1066 Blindern, N-0316 Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):43-4.

The population cycles of rodents at northern latitudes have puzzled people for
centuries, and their impact is manifest throughout the alpine ecosystem. Climate 
change is known to be able to drive animal population dynamics between stable and
cyclic phases, and has been suggested to cause the recent changes in cyclic
dynamics of rodents and their predators. But although predator-rodent
interactions are commonly argued to be the cause of the Fennoscandian rodent
cycles, the role of the environment in the modulation of such dynamics is often
poorly understood in natural systems. Hence, quantitative links between
climate-driven processes and rodent dynamics have so far been lacking. Here we
show that winter weather and snow conditions, together with density dependence in
the net population growth rate, account for the observed population dynamics of
the rodent community dominated by lemmings (Lemmus lemmus) in an alpine Norwegian
core habitat between 1970 and 1997, and predict the observed absence of rodent
peak years after 1994. These local rodent dynamics are coherent with alpine bird 
dynamics both locally and over all of southern Norway, consistent with the
influence of large-scale fluctuations in winter conditions. The relationship
between commonly available meteorological data and snow conditions indicates that
changes in temperature and humidity, and thus conditions in the subnivean space, 
seem to markedly affect the dynamics of alpine rodents and their linked groups.
The pattern of less regular rodent peaks, and corresponding changes in the
overall dynamics of the alpine ecosystem, thus seems likely to prevail over a
growing area under projected climate change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07442 
PMID: 18987742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07375.

The Earth's missing lead may not be in the core.

Lagos M(1), Ballhaus C, Münker C, Wohlgemuth-Ueberwasser C, Berndt J, Kuzmin DV.

Author information: 
(1)Steinmann-Institut, Universität Bonn, Poppelsdorfer Schloss, 53115 Bonn,
Germany. lagos@uni-bonn.de

Relative to the CI chondrite class of meteorites (widely thought to be the
'building blocks' of the terrestrial planets), the Earth is depleted in volatile 
elements. For most elements this depletion is thought to be a solar nebular
signature, as chondrites show depletions qualitatively similar to that of the
Earth. On the other hand, as lead is a volatile element, some Pb may also have
been lost after accretion. The unique (206)Pb/(204)Pb and (207)Pb/(204)Pb ratios 
of the Earth's mantle suggest that some lead was lost about 50 to 130 Myr after
Solar System formation. This has commonly been explained by lead lost via the
segregation of a sulphide melt to the Earth's core, which assumes that lead has
an affinity towards sulphide. Some models, however, have reconciled the Earth's
lead deficit with volatilization. Whichever model is preferred, the broad
coincidence of U-Pb model ages with the age of the Moon suggests that lead loss
may be related to the Moon-forming impact. Here we report partitioning
experiments in metal-sulphide-silicate systems. We show that lead is neither
siderophile nor chalcophile enough to explain the high U/Pb ratio of the Earth's 
mantle as being a result of lead pumping to the core. The Earth may have accreted
from initially volatile-depleted material, some lead may have been lost to
degassing following the Moon-forming giant impact, or a hidden reservoir exists
in the deep mantle with lead isotope compositions complementary to upper-mantle
values; it is unlikely though that the missing lead resides in the core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07375 
PMID: 18987741 


179. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07425.

Atlantic overturning responses to Late Pleistocene climate forcings.

Lisiecki LE(1), Raymo ME, Curry WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Boston University, 675 Commonwealth Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. lisiecki@alumni.brown.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):47-8.

The factors driving glacial changes in ocean overturning circulation are not well
understood. On the basis of a comparison of 20 climate variables over the past
four glacial cycles, the SPECMAP project proposed that summer insolation at high 
northern latitudes (that is, Milankovitch forcing) drives the same sequence of
ocean circulation and other climate responses over 100-kyr eccentricity cycles,
41-kyr obliquity cycles and 23-kyr precession cycles. SPECMAP analysed the
circulation response at only a few sites in the Atlantic Ocean, however, and the 
phase of circulation response has been shown to vary by site and orbital band.
Here we test the SPECMAP hypothesis by measuring the phase of orbital responses
in benthic delta(13)C (a proxy indicator of ocean nutrient content) at 24 sites
throughout the Atlantic over the past 425 kyr. On the basis of delta(13)C
responses at 3,000-4,010 m water depth, we find that maxima in Milankovitch
forcing are associated with greater mid-depth overturning in the obliquity band
but less overturning in the precession band. This suggests that Atlantic
overturning is strongly sensitive to factors beyond ice volume and summer
insolation at high northern latitudes. A better understanding of these processes 
could lead to improvements in model estimates of overturning rates, which range
from a 40 per cent increase to a 40 per cent decrease at the Last Glacial Maximum
and a 10-50 per cent decrease over the next 140 yr in response to projected
increases in atmospheric CO(2) (ref. 4).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07425 
PMID: 18987740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07430.

Silicon-chip-based ultrafast optical oscilloscope.

Foster MA(1), Salem R, Geraghty DF, Turner-Foster AC, Lipson M, Gaeta AL.

Author information: 
(1)School of Applied and Engineering Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York 14853, USA.

With the realization of faster telecommunication data rates and an expanding
interest in ultrafast chemical and physical phenomena, it has become important to
develop techniques that enable simple measurements of optical waveforms with
subpicosecond resolution. State-of-the-art oscilloscopes with high-speed
photodetectors provide single-shot waveform measurement with 30-ps resolution.
Although multiple-shot sampling techniques can achieve few-picosecond resolution,
single-shot measurements are necessary to analyse events that are rapidly varying
in time, asynchronous, or may occur only once. Further improvements in
single-shot resolution are challenging, owing to microelectronic bandwidth
limitations. To overcome these limitations, researchers have looked towards
all-optical techniques because of the large processing bandwidths that photonics 
allow. This has generated an explosion of interest in the integration of
photonics on standard electronics platforms, which has spawned the field of
silicon photonics and promises to enable the next generation of computer
processing units and advances in high-bandwidth communications. For the success
of silicon photonics in these areas, on-chip optical signal-processing for
optical performance monitoring will prove critical. Beyond next-generation
communications, silicon-compatible ultrafast metrology would be of great utility 
to many fundamental research fields, as evident from the scientific impact that
ultrafast measurement techniques continue to make. Here, using time-to-frequency 
conversion via the nonlinear process of four-wave mixing on a silicon chip, we
demonstrate a waveform measurement technology within a silicon-photonic platform.
We measure optical waveforms with 220-fs resolution over lengths greater than 100
ps, which represent the largest record-length-to-resolution ratio (>450) of any
single-shot-capable picosecond waveform measurement technique. Our implementation
allows for single-shot measurements and uses only highly developed electronic and
optical materials of complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS)-compatible
silicon-on-insulator technology and single-mode optical fibre. The mature
silicon-on-insulator platform and the ability to integrate electronics with these
CMOS-compatible photonics offer great promise to extend this technology into
commonplace bench-top and chip-scale instruments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07430 
PMID: 18987739 


181. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):77-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07400.

Emergence of preformed Cooper pairs from the doped Mott insulating state in
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+delta.

Yang HB(1), Rameau JD, Johnson PD, Valla T, Tsvelik A, Gu GD.

Author information: 
(1)Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Department, Brookhaven National
Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA.

Superconductors are characterized by an energy gap that represents the energy
needed to break the pairs of electrons (Cooper pairs) apart. At temperatures
considerably above those associated with superconductivity, the
high-transition-temperature copper oxides have an additional 'pseudogap'. It has 
been unclear whether this represents preformed pairs of electrons that have not
achieved the coherence necessary for superconductivity, or whether it reflects
some alternative ground state that competes with superconductivity. Paired
electrons should display particle-hole symmetry with respect to the Fermi level
(the energy of the highest occupied level in the electronic system), but
competing states need not show such symmetry. Here we report a photoemission
study of the underdoped copper oxide Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8+delta) that shows the
opening of a symmetric gap only in the anti-nodal region, contrary to the
expectation that pairing would take place in the nodal region. It is therefore
evident that the pseudogap does reflect the formation of preformed pairs of
electrons and that the pairing occurs only in well-defined directions of the
underlying lattice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07400 
PMID: 18987738 


182. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):73-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07411.

Prospects for detecting supersymmetric dark matter in the Galactic halo.

Springel V(1), White SD, Frenk CS, Navarro JF, Jenkins A, Vogelsberger M, Wang J,
Ludlow A, Helmi A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 1, 85740
Garching, Germany. vspringel@mpa-garching.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):44-5.

Dark matter is the dominant form of matter in the Universe, but its nature is
unknown. It is plausibly an elementary particle, perhaps the lightest
supersymmetric partner of known particle species. In this case, annihilation of
dark matter in the halo of the Milky Way should produce gamma-rays at a level
that may soon be observable. Previous work has argued that the annihilation
signal will be dominated by emission from very small clumps (perhaps smaller even
than the Earth), which would be most easily detected where they cluster together 
in the dark matter haloes of dwarf satellite galaxies. Here we report that such
small-scale structure will, in fact, have a negligible impact on dark matter
detectability. Rather, the dominant and probably most easily detectable signal
will be produced by diffuse dark matter in the main halo of the Milky Way. If the
main halo is strongly detected, then small dark matter clumps should also be
visible, but may well contain no stars, thereby confirming a key prediction of
the cold dark matter model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07411 
PMID: 18987737 


183. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):66-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07485.

DNA sequencing of a cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukaemia genome.

Ley TJ(1), Mardis ER, Ding L, Fulton B, McLellan MD, Chen K, Dooling D,
Dunford-Shore BH, McGrath S, Hickenbotham M, Cook L, Abbott R, Larson DE, Koboldt
DC, Pohl C, Smith S, Hawkins A, Abbott S, Locke D, Hillier LW, Miner T, Fulton L,
Magrini V, Wylie T, Glasscock J, Conyers J, Sander N, Shi X, Osborne JR, Minx P, 
Gordon D, Chinwalla A, Zhao Y, Ries RE, Payton JE, Westervelt P, Tomasson MH,
Watson M, Baty J, Ivanovich J, Heath S, Shannon WD, Nagarajan R, Walter MJ, Link 
DC, Graubert TA, DiPersio JF, Wilson RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri 63108, USA.

Acute myeloid leukaemia is a highly malignant haematopoietic tumour that affects 
about 13,000 adults in the United States each year. The treatment of this disease
has changed little in the past two decades, because most of the genetic events
that initiate the disease remain undiscovered. Whole-genome sequencing is now
possible at a reasonable cost and timeframe to use this approach for the unbiased
discovery of tumour-specific somatic mutations that alter the protein-coding
genes. Here we present the results obtained from sequencing a typical acute
myeloid leukaemia genome, and its matched normal counterpart obtained from the
same patient's skin. We discovered ten genes with acquired mutations; two were
previously described mutations that are thought to contribute to tumour
progression, and eight were new mutations present in virtually all tumour cells
at presentation and relapse, the function of which is not yet known. Our study
establishes whole-genome sequencing as an unbiased method for discovering
cancer-initiating mutations in previously unidentified genes that may respond to 
targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07485 
PMCID: PMC2603574
PMID: 18987736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):60-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07484.

The diploid genome sequence of an Asian individual.

Wang J(1), Wang W, Li R, Li Y, Tian G, Goodman L, Fan W, Zhang J, Li J, Zhang J, 
Guo Y, Feng B, Li H, Lu Y, Fang X, Liang H, Du Z, Li D, Zhao Y, Hu Y, Yang Z,
Zheng H, Hellmann I, Inouye M, Pool J, Yi X, Zhao J, Duan J, Zhou Y, Qin J, Ma L,
Li G, Yang Z, Zhang G, Yang B, Yu C, Liang F, Li W, Li S, Li D, Ni P, Ruan J, Li 
Q, Zhu H, Liu D, Lu Z, Li N, Guo G, Zhang J, Ye J, Fang L, Hao Q, Chen Q, Liang
Y, Su Y, San A, Ping C, Yang S, Chen F, Li L, Zhou K, Zheng H, Ren Y, Yang L, Gao
Y, Yang G, Li Z, Feng X, Kristiansen K, Wong GK, Nielsen R, Durbin R, Bolund L,
Zhang X, Li S, Yang H, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Genomics Institute at Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518000, China.
wangj@genomics.org.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):49-51.

Here we present the first diploid genome sequence of an Asian individual. The
genome was sequenced to 36-fold average coverage using massively parallel
sequencing technology. We aligned the short reads onto the NCBI human reference
genome to 99.97% coverage, and guided by the reference genome, we used uniquely
mapped reads to assemble a high-quality consensus sequence for 92% of the Asian
individual's genome. We identified approximately 3 million single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) inside this region, of which 13.6% were not in the dbSNP
database. Genotyping analysis showed that SNP identification had high accuracy
and consistency, indicating the high sequence quality of this assembly. We also
carried out heterozygote phasing and haplotype prediction against HapMap CHB and 
JPT haplotypes (Chinese and Japanese, respectively), sequence comparison with the
two available individual genomes (J. D. Watson and J. C. Venter), and structural 
variation identification. These variations were considered for their potential
biological impact. Our sequence data and analyses demonstrate the potential
usefulness of next-generation sequencing technologies for personal genomics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07484 
PMCID: PMC2716080
PMID: 18987735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):53-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07517.

Accurate whole human genome sequencing using reversible terminator chemistry.

Bentley DR(1), Balasubramanian S, Swerdlow HP, Smith GP, Milton J, Brown CG, Hall
KP, Evers DJ, Barnes CL, Bignell HR, Boutell JM, Bryant J, Carter RJ, Keira
Cheetham R, Cox AJ, Ellis DJ, Flatbush MR, Gormley NA, Humphray SJ, Irving LJ,
Karbelashvili MS, Kirk SM, Li H, Liu X, Maisinger KS, Murray LJ, Obradovic B, Ost
T, Parkinson ML, Pratt MR, Rasolonjatovo IM, Reed MT, Rigatti R, Rodighiero C,
Ross MT, Sabot A, Sankar SV, Scally A, Schroth GP, Smith ME, Smith VP, Spiridou
A, Torrance PE, Tzonev SS, Vermaas EH, Walter K, Wu X, Zhang L, Alam MD, Anastasi
C, Aniebo IC, Bailey DM, Bancarz IR, Banerjee S, Barbour SG, Baybayan PA, Benoit 
VA, Benson KF, Bevis C, Black PJ, Boodhun A, Brennan JS, Bridgham JA, Brown RC,
Brown AA, Buermann DH, Bundu AA, Burrows JC, Carter NP, Castillo N, Chiara E
Catenazzi M, Chang S, Neil Cooley R, Crake NR, Dada OO, Diakoumakos KD,
Dominguez-Fernandez B, Earnshaw DJ, Egbujor UC, Elmore DW, Etchin SS, Ewan MR,
Fedurco M, Fraser LJ, Fuentes Fajardo KV, Scott Furey W, George D, Gietzen KJ,
Goddard CP, Golda GS, Granieri PA, Green DE, Gustafson DL, Hansen NF, Harnish K, 
Haudenschild CD, Heyer NI, Hims MM, Ho JT, Horgan AM, Hoschler K, Hurwitz S,
Ivanov DV, Johnson MQ, James T, Huw Jones TA, Kang GD, Kerelska TH, Kersey AD,
Khrebtukova I, Kindwall AP, Kingsbury Z, Kokko-Gonzales PI, Kumar A, Laurent MA, 
Lawley CT, Lee SE, Lee X, Liao AK, Loch JA, Lok M, Luo S, Mammen RM, Martin JW,
McCauley PG, McNitt P, Mehta P, Moon KW, Mullens JW, Newington T, Ning Z, Ling Ng
B, Novo SM, O'Neill MJ, Osborne MA, Osnowski A, Ostadan O, Paraschos LL,
Pickering L, Pike AC, Pike AC, Chris Pinkard D, Pliskin DP, Podhasky J, Quijano
VJ, Raczy C, Rae VH, Rawlings SR, Chiva Rodriguez A, Roe PM, Rogers J, Rogert
Bacigalupo MC, Romanov N, Romieu A, Roth RK, Rourke NJ, Ruediger ST, Rusman E,
Sanches-Kuiper RM, Schenker MR, Seoane JM, Shaw RJ, Shiver MK, Short SW, Sizto
NL, Sluis JP, Smith MA, Ernest Sohna Sohna J, Spence EJ, Stevens K, Sutton N,
Szajkowski L, Tregidgo CL, Turcatti G, Vandevondele S, Verhovsky Y, Virk SM,
Wakelin S, Walcott GC, Wang J, Worsley GJ, Yan J, Yau L, Zuerlein M, Rogers J,
Mullikin JC, Hurles ME, McCooke NJ, West JS, Oaks FL, Lundberg PL, Klenerman D,
Durbin R, Smith AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Illumina Cambridge Ltd. (Formerly Solexa Ltd), Chesterford Research Park,
Little Chesterford, Nr Saffron Walden, Essex CB10 1XL, UK. dbentley@illumina.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):49-51.

DNA sequence information underpins genetic research, enabling discoveries of
important biological or medical benefit. Sequencing projects have traditionally
used long (400-800 base pair) reads, but the existence of reference sequences for
the human and many other genomes makes it possible to develop new, fast
approaches to re-sequencing, whereby shorter reads are compared to a reference to
identify intraspecies genetic variation. Here we report an approach that
generates several billion bases of accurate nucleotide sequence per experiment at
low cost. Single molecules of DNA are attached to a flat surface, amplified in
situ and used as templates for synthetic sequencing with fluorescent reversible
terminator deoxyribonucleotides. Images of the surface are analysed to generate
high-quality sequence. We demonstrate application of this approach to human
genome sequencing on flow-sorted X chromosomes and then scale the approach to
determine the genome sequence of a male Yoruba from Ibadan, Nigeria. We build an 
accurate consensus sequence from >30x average depth of paired 35-base reads. We
characterize four million single-nucleotide polymorphisms and four hundred
thousand structural variants, many of which were previously unknown. Our approach
is effective for accurate, rapid and economical whole-genome re-sequencing and
many other biomedical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07517 
PMCID: PMC2581791
PMID: 18987734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07351. Epub 2008 Oct 15.

Entrained rhythmic activities of neuronal ensembles as perceptual memory of time 
interval.

Sumbre G(1), Muto A, Baier H, Poo MM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Helen
Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

The ability to process temporal information is fundamental to sensory perception,
cognitive processing and motor behaviour of all living organisms, from amoebae to
humans. Neural circuit mechanisms based on neuronal and synaptic properties have 
been shown to process temporal information over the range of tens of microseconds
to hundreds of milliseconds. How neural circuits process temporal information in 
the range of seconds to minutes is much less understood. Studies of working
memory in monkeys and rats have shown that neurons in the prefrontal cortex, the 
parietal cortex and the thalamus exhibit ramping activities that linearly
correlate with the lapse of time until the end of a specific time interval of
several seconds that the animal is trained to memorize. Many organisms can also
memorize the time interval of rhythmic sensory stimuli in the timescale of
seconds and can coordinate motor behaviour accordingly, for example, by keeping
the rhythm after exposure to the beat of music. Here we report a form of rhythmic
activity among specific neuronal ensembles in the zebrafish optic tectum, which
retains the memory of the time interval (in the order of seconds) of repetitive
sensory stimuli for a duration of up to approximately 20 s. After repetitive
visual conditioning stimulation (CS) of zebrafish larvae, we observed rhythmic
post-CS activities among specific tectal neuronal ensembles, with a regular
interval that closely matched the CS. Visuomotor behaviour of the zebrafish
larvae also showed regular post-CS repetitions at the entrained time interval
that correlated with rhythmic neuronal ensemble activities in the tectum. Thus,
rhythmic activities among specific neuronal ensembles may act as an adjustable
'metronome' for time intervals in the order of seconds, and serve as a mechanism 
for the short-term perceptual memory of rhythmic sensory experience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07351 
PMCID: PMC2896960
PMID: 18923391  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):121-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07357. Epub 2008 Oct 12.

Crystal structure of the anti-viral APOBEC3G catalytic domain and functional
implications.

Holden LG(1), Prochnow C, Chang YP, Bransteitter R, Chelico L, Sen U, Stevens RC,
Goodman MF, Chen XS.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Computational Biology, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089, USA.

The APOBEC family members are involved in diverse biological functions. APOBEC3G 
restricts the replication of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B
virus and retroelements by cytidine deamination on single-stranded DNA or by RNA 
binding. Here we report the high-resolution crystal structure of the
carboxy-terminal deaminase domain of APOBEC3G (APOBEC3G-CD2) purified from
Escherichia coli. The APOBEC3G-CD2 structure has a five-stranded beta-sheet core 
that is common to all known deaminase structures and closely resembles the
structure of another APOBEC protein, APOBEC2 (ref. 5). A comparison of
APOBEC3G-CD2 with other deaminase structures shows a structural conservation of
the active-site loops that are directly involved in substrate binding. In the
X-ray structure, these APOBEC3G active-site loops form a continuous 'substrate
groove' around the active centre. The orientation of this putative substrate
groove differs markedly (by 90 degrees) from the groove predicted by the NMR
structure. We have introduced mutations around the groove, and have identified
residues involved in substrate specificity, single-stranded DNA binding and
deaminase activity. These results provide a basis for understanding the
underlying mechanisms of substrate specificity for the APOBEC family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07357 
PMCID: PMC2714533
PMID: 18849968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07355. Epub 2008 Oct 1.

The essential role of the CopN protein in Chlamydia pneumoniae intracellular
growth.

Huang J(1), Lesser CF, Lory S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Bacterial virulence determinants can be identified, according to the molecular
Koch's postulates, if inactivation of a gene associated with a suspected
virulence trait results in a loss in pathogenicity. This approach is commonly
used with genetically tractable organisms. However, the current lack of tools for
targeted gene disruptions in obligate intracellular microbial pathogens seriously
hampers the identification of their virulence factors. Here we demonstrate an
approach to studying potential virulence factors of genetically intractable
organisms, such as Chlamydia. Heterologous expression of Chlamydia pneumoniae
CopN in yeast and mammalian cells resulted in a cell cycle arrest, presumably
owing to alterations in the microtubule cytoskeleton. A screen of a small
molecule library identified two compounds that alleviated CopN-induced growth
inhibition in yeast. These compounds interfered with C. pneumoniae replication in
mammalian cells, presumably by 'knocking out' CopN function, revealing an
essential role of CopN in the support of C. pneumoniae growth during infection.
This work demonstrates the role of a specific chlamydial protein in virulence.
The chemical biology approach described here can be used to identify virulence
factors, and the reverse chemical genetic strategy can result in the
identification of lead compounds for the development of novel therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07355 
PMCID: PMC2673727
PMID: 18830244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):130-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07348. Epub 2008 Sep 28.

Stepwise chromatin remodelling by a cascade of transcription initiation of
non-coding RNAs.

Hirota K(1), Miyoshi T, Kugou K, Hoffman CS, Shibata T, Ohta K.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular & Molecular Biology Laboratory, RIKEN Advanced Science Institute,
Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan. khirota@rg.med.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Recent transcriptome analyses using high-density tiling arrays and data from
large-scale analyses of full-length complementary DNA libraries by the FANTOM3
consortium demonstrate that many transcripts are non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). These 
transcriptome analyses indicate that many of the non-coding regions, previously
thought to be functionally inert, are actually transcriptionally active regions
with various features. Furthermore, most relatively large ( approximately several
kilobases) polyadenylated messenger RNA transcripts are transcribed from regions 
harbouring little coding potential. However, the function of such ncRNAs is
mostly unknown and has been a matter of debate. Here we show that RNA polymerase 
II (RNAPII) transcription of ncRNAs is required for chromatin remodelling at the 
fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe fbp1(+) locus during transcriptional
activation. The chromatin at fbp1(+) is progressively converted to an open
configuration, as several species of ncRNAs are transcribed through fbp1(+). This
is coupled with the translocation of RNAPII through the region upstream of the
eventual fbp1(+) transcriptional start site. Insertion of a transcription
terminator into this upstream region abolishes both the cascade of transcription 
of ncRNAs and the progressive chromatin alteration. Our results demonstrate that 
transcription through the promoter region is required to make DNA sequences
accessible to transcriptional activators and to RNAPII.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07348 
PMID: 18820678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature07338. Epub 2008 Sep 28.

The CRAC channel consists of a tetramer formed by Stim-induced dimerization of
Orai dimers.

Penna A(1), Demuro A, Yeromin AV, Zhang SL, Safrina O, Parker I, Cahalan MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of California Irvine,
California 92697-4561, USA.

Ca(2+)-release-activated Ca(2+) (CRAC) channels underlie sustained Ca(2+)
signalling in lymphocytes and numerous other cells after Ca(2+) liberation from
the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). RNA interference screening approaches identified 
two proteins, Stim and Orai, that together form the molecular basis for CRAC
channel activity. Stim senses depletion of the ER Ca(2+) store and physically
relays this information by translocating from the ER to junctions adjacent to the
plasma membrane, and Orai embodies the pore of the plasma membrane calcium
channel. A close interaction between Stim and Orai, identified by
co-immunoprecipitation and by Förster resonance energy transfer, is involved in
the opening of the Ca(2+) channel formed by Orai subunits. Most ion channels are 
multimers of pore-forming subunits surrounding a central channel, which are
preassembled in the ER and transported in their final stoichiometry to the plasma
membrane. Here we show, by biochemical analysis after cross-linking in cell
lysates and intact cells and by using non-denaturing gel electrophoresis without 
cross-linking, that Orai is predominantly a dimer in the plasma membrane under
resting conditions. Moreover, single-molecule imaging of green fluorescent
protein (GFP)-tagged Orai expressed in Xenopus oocytes showed predominantly
two-step photobleaching, again consistent with a dimeric basal state. In
contrast, co-expression of GFP-tagged Orai with the carboxy terminus of Stim as a
cytosolic protein to activate the Orai channel without inducing Ca(2+) store
depletion or clustering of Orai into punctae yielded mostly four-step
photobleaching, consistent with a tetrameric stoichiometry of the active Orai
channel. Interaction with the C terminus of Stim thus induces Orai dimers to
dimerize, forming tetramers that constitute the Ca(2+)-selective pore. This
represents a new mechanism in which assembly and activation of the functional ion
channel are mediated by the same triggering molecule.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07338 
PMCID: PMC2597643
PMID: 18820677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):125-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07324. Epub 2008 Sep 24.

Histone H2A.Z and DNA methylation are mutually antagonistic chromatin marks.

Zilberman D(1), Coleman-Derr D, Ballinger T, Henikoff S.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, 211 Koshland Hall, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. 
daniel.zilberman@nature.berkely.edu

Eukaryotic chromatin is separated into functional domains differentiated by
post-translational histone modifications, histone variants and DNA methylation.
Methylation is associated with repression of transcriptional initiation in plants
and animals, and is frequently found in transposable elements. Proper methylation
patterns are crucial for eukaryotic development, and aberrant methylation-induced
silencing of tumour suppressor genes is a common feature of human cancer. In
contrast to methylation, the histone variant H2A.Z is preferentially deposited by
the Swr1 ATPase complex near 5' ends of genes where it promotes transcriptional
competence. How DNA methylation and H2A.Z influence transcription remains largely
unknown. Here we show that in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana regions of DNA
methylation are quantitatively deficient in H2A.Z. Exclusion of H2A.Z is seen at 
sites of DNA methylation in the bodies of actively transcribed genes and in
methylated transposons. Mutation of the MET1 DNA methyltransferase, which causes 
both losses and gains of DNA methylation, engenders opposite changes (gains and
losses) in H2A.Z deposition, whereas mutation of the PIE1 subunit of the Swr1
complex that deposits H2A.Z leads to genome-wide hypermethylation. Our findings
indicate that DNA methylation can influence chromatin structure and effect gene
silencing by excluding H2A.Z, and that H2A.Z protects genes from DNA methylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07324 
PMCID: PMC2877514
PMID: 18815594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2008 Nov 6;456(7218):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature07331. Epub 2008 Aug 31.

Genes mirror geography within Europe.

Novembre J(1), Johnson T, Bryc K, Kutalik Z, Boyko AR, Auton A, Indap A, King KS,
Bergmann S, Nelson MR, Stephens M, Bustamante CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Interdepartmental Program in
Bioinformatics, University of California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA. jnovembre@ucla.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):274.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):861.

Understanding the genetic structure of human populations is of fundamental
interest to medical, forensic and anthropological sciences. Advances in
high-throughput genotyping technology have markedly improved our understanding of
global patterns of human genetic variation and suggest the potential to use large
samples to uncover variation among closely spaced populations. Here we
characterize genetic variation in a sample of 3,000 European individuals
genotyped at over half a million variable DNA sites in the human genome. Despite 
low average levels of genetic differentiation among Europeans, we find a close
correspondence between genetic and geographic distances; indeed, a geographical
map of Europe arises naturally as an efficient two-dimensional summary of genetic
variation in Europeans. The results emphasize that when mapping the genetic basis
of a disease phenotype, spurious associations can arise if genetic structure is
not properly accounted for. In addition, the results are relevant to the
prospects of genetic ancestry testing; an individual's DNA can be used to infer
their geographic origin with surprising accuracy-often to within a few hundred
kilometres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07331 
PMCID: PMC2735096
PMID: 18758442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1248-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07282.

Non-random segregation of sister chromosomes in Escherichia coli.

White MA(1), Eykelenboom JK, Lopez-Vernaza MA, Wilson E, Leach DR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cell Biology, School of Biological Sciences, University of
Edinburgh, King's Buildings, Edinburgh EH9 3JR, UK.

It has long been known that the 5' to 3' polarity of DNA synthesis results in
both a leading and lagging strand at all replication forks. Until now, however,
there has been no evidence that leading or lagging strands are spatially
organized in any way within a cell. Here we show that chromosome segregation in
Escherichia coli is not random but is driven in a manner that results in the
leading and lagging strands being addressed to particular cellular destinations. 
These destinations are consistent with the known patterns of chromosome
segregation. Our work demonstrates a new level of organization relating to the
replication and segregation of the E. coli chromosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07282 
PMID: 18972020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1240-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07220.

Small-amplitude cycles emerge from stage-structured interactions in Daphnia-algal
systems.

McCauley E(1), Nelson WA, Nisbet RM.

Author information: 
(1)Ecology and Evolution Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada. mccauley@ucalgary.ca

A long-standing issue in ecology is reconciling the apparent stability of many
populations with robust predictions of large-amplitude population cycles from
general theory on consumer-resource interactions. Even when consumers are
decoupled from dynamic resources, large-amplitude cycles can theoretically emerge
from delayed feedback processes found in many consumers. Here we show that
resource-dependent mortality and a dynamic developmental delay in consumers
produces a new type of small-amplitude cycle that coexists with large-amplitude
fluctuations in coupled consumer-resource systems. A distinctive characteristic
of the small-amplitude cycles is slow juvenile development for consumers, leading
to a developmental delay that is longer than the cycle period. By contrast, the
period exceeds the delay in large-amplitude cycles. These theoretical predictions
may explain previous empirical results on coexisting attractors found in
Daphnia-algal systems. To test this, we used bioassay experiments that measure
the growth rates of individuals in populations exhibiting each type of cycle. The
results were consistent with predictions. Together, the new theory and
experiments establish that two very general features of consumers--a
resource-dependent juvenile stage duration and resource-dependent
mortality--combine to produce small-amplitude resource-consumer cycles. This
phenomenon may contribute to the prevalence of small-amplitude fluctuations in
many other consumer-resource populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07220 
PMID: 18972019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07281.

Agrochemicals increase trematode infections in a declining amphibian species.

Rohr JR(1), Schotthoefer AM, Raffel TR, Carrick HJ, Halstead N, Hoverman JT,
Johnson CM, Johnson LB, Lieske C, Piwoni MD, Schoff PK, Beasley VR.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida 33620, USA.
jasonrohr@gmail.com

Global amphibian declines have often been attributed to disease, but ignorance of
the relative importance and mode of action of potential drivers of infection has 
made it difficult to develop effective remediation. In a field study, here we
show that the widely used herbicide, atrazine, was the best predictor (out of
more than 240 plausible candidates) of the abundance of larval trematodes
(parasitic flatworms) in the declining northern leopard frog Rana pipiens. The
effects of atrazine were consistent across trematode taxa. The combination of
atrazine and phosphate--principal agrochemicals in global corn and sorghum
production--accounted for 74% of the variation in the abundance of these often
debilitating larval trematodes (atrazine alone accounted for 51%). Analysis of
field data supported a causal mechanism whereby both agrochemicals increase
exposure and susceptibility to larval trematodes by augmenting snail intermediate
hosts and suppressing amphibian immunity. A mesocosm experiment demonstrated
that, relative to control tanks, atrazine tanks had immunosuppressed tadpoles,
had significantly more attached algae and snails, and had tadpoles with elevated 
trematode loads, further supporting a causal relationship between atrazine and
elevated trematode infections in amphibians. These results raise concerns about
the role of atrazine and phosphate in amphibian declines, and illustrate the
value of quantifying the relative importance of several possible drivers of
disease risk while determining the mechanisms by which they facilitate disease
emergence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07281 
PMID: 18972018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1150. doi: 10.1038/4551150a.

A risk worth taking.

[No authors listed]

An experiment by the Gates Foundation is food for thought for other research
agencies.

DOI: 10.1038/4551150a 
PMID: 18971970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1149. doi: 10.1038/4551149a.

America's choice.

[No authors listed]

The values of scientific enquiry, rather than any particular policy positions on 
science, suggest a preference for one US presidential candidate over the other.

DOI: 10.1038/4551149a 
PMID: 18971969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1255-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07394. Epub 2008 Oct 15.

Crystal structure of a stable dimer reveals the molecular basis of serpin
polymerization.

Yamasaki M(1), Li W, Johnson DJ, Huntington JA.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge, Department of Haematology, Cambridge Institute for
Medical Research, Wellcome Trust/MRC Building, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1189-90.

Repeating intermolecular protein association by means of beta-sheet expansion is 
the mechanism underlying a multitude of diseases including Alzheimer's,
Huntington's and Parkinson's and the prion encephalopathies. A family of
proteins, known as the serpins, also forms large stable multimers by ordered
beta-sheet linkages leading to intracellular accretion and disease. These
'serpinopathies' include early-onset dementia caused by mutations in neuroserpin,
liver cirrhosis and emphysema caused by mutations in alpha(1)-antitrypsin
(alpha(1)AT), and thrombosis caused by mutations in antithrombin. Serpin
structure and function are quite well understood, and the family has therefore
become a model system for understanding the beta-sheet expansion disorders
collectively known as the conformational diseases. To develop strategies to
prevent and reverse these disorders, it is necessary to determine the structural 
basis of the intermolecular linkage and of the pathogenic monomeric state. Here
we report the crystallographic structure of a stable serpin dimer which reveals a
domain swap of more than 50 residues, including two long antiparallel
beta-strands inserting in the centre of the principal beta-sheet of the
neighbouring monomer. This structure explains the extreme stability of serpin
polymers, the molecular basis of their rapid propagation, and provides critical
new insights into the structural changes which initiate irreversible beta-sheet
expansion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07394 
PMID: 18923394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07332.

Squeezing and entanglement in a Bose-Einstein condensate.

Estève J(1), Gross C, Weller A, Giovanazzi S, Oberthaler MK.

Author information: 
(1)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Universität Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
227, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Entanglement, a key feature of quantum mechanics, is a resource that allows the
improvement of precision measurements beyond the conventional bound attainable by
classical means. This results in the standard quantum limit, which is reached in 
today's best available sensors of various quantities such as time and position.
Many of these sensors are interferometers in which the standard quantum limit can
be overcome by using quantum-entangled states (in particular spin squeezed
states) at the two input ports. Bose-Einstein condensates of ultracold atoms are 
considered good candidates to provide such states involving a large number of
particles. Here we demonstrate spin squeezed states suitable for atomic
interferometry by splitting a condensate into a few parts using a lattice
potential. Site-resolved detection of the atoms allows the measurement of the
atom number difference and relative phase, which are conjugate variables. The
observed fluctuations imply entanglement between the particles, a resource that
would allow a precision gain of 3.8 dB over the standard quantum limit for
interferometric measurements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07332 
PMID: 18830245 


200. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1193-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07415. Epub 2008 Oct 1.

Early origins and evolution of microRNAs and Piwi-interacting RNAs in animals.

Grimson A(1), Srivastava M, Fahey B, Woodcroft BJ, Chiang HR, King N, Degnan BM, 
Rokhsar DS, Bartel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1184-5.

In bilaterian animals, such as humans, flies and worms, hundreds of microRNAs
(miRNAs), some conserved throughout bilaterian evolution, collectively regulate a
substantial fraction of the transcriptome. In addition to miRNAs, other
bilaterian small RNAs, known as Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), protect the
genome from transposons. Here we identify small RNAs from animal phyla that
diverged before the emergence of the Bilateria. The cnidarian Nematostella
vectensis (starlet sea anemone), a close relative to the Bilateria, possesses an 
extensive repertoire of miRNA genes, two classes of piRNAs and a complement of
proteins specific to small-RNA biology comparable to that of humans. The
poriferan Amphimedon queenslandica (sponge), one of the simplest animals and a
distant relative of the Bilateria, also possesses miRNAs, both classes of piRNAs 
and a full complement of the small-RNA machinery. Animal miRNA evolution seems to
have been relatively dynamic, with precursor sizes and mature miRNA sequences
differing greatly between poriferans, cnidarians and bilaterians. Nonetheless,
miRNAs and piRNAs have been available as classes of riboregulators to shape gene 
expression throughout the evolution and radiation of animal phyla.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07415 
PMCID: PMC3837422
PMID: 18830242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1251-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07341. Epub 2008 Sep 28.

Comprehensive mass-spectrometry-based proteome quantification of haploid versus
diploid yeast.

de Godoy LM(1), Olsen JV, Cox J, Nielsen ML, Hubner NC, Fröhlich F, Walther TC,
Mann M.

Author information: 
(1)Proteomics and Signal Transduction, Max-Planck-Institute for Biochemistry, Am 
Klopferspitz 18, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Mass spectrometry is a powerful technology for the analysis of large numbers of
endogenous proteins. However, the analytical challenges associated with
comprehensive identification and relative quantification of cellular proteomes
have so far appeared to be insurmountable. Here, using advances in computational 
proteomics, instrument performance and sample preparation strategies, we compare 
protein levels of essentially all endogenous proteins in haploid yeast cells to
their diploid counterparts. Our analysis spans more than four orders of magnitude
in protein abundance with no discrimination against membrane or low level
regulatory proteins. Stable-isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture
(SILAC) quantification was very accurate across the proteome, as demonstrated by 
one-to-one ratios of most yeast proteins. Key members of the pheromone pathway
were specific to haploid yeast but others were unaltered, suggesting an efficient
control mechanism of the mating response. Several retrotransposon-associated
proteins were specific to haploid yeast. Gene ontology analysis pinpointed a
significant change for cell wall components in agreement with geometrical
considerations: diploid cells have twice the volume but not twice the surface
area of haploid cells. Transcriptome levels agreed poorly with proteome changes
overall. However, after filtering out low confidence microarray measurements,
messenger RNA changes and SILAC ratios correlated very well for pheromone pathway
components. Systems-wide, precise quantification directly at the protein level
opens up new perspectives in post-genomics and systems biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07341 
PMID: 18820680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1259-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07305. Epub 2008 Sep
24.

ROS3 is an RNA-binding protein required for DNA demethylation in Arabidopsis.

Zheng X(1), Pontes O, Zhu J, Miki D, Zhang F, Li WX, Iida K, Kapoor A, Pikaard
CS, Zhu JK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Plant Cell Biology and Department of Botany and Plant Sciences,
University of California, Riverside, California 92521, USA.

DNA methylation is an important epigenetic mark for transcriptional gene
silencing (TGS) in diverse organisms. Recent studies suggest that the methylation
status of a number of genes is dynamically regulated by methylation and
demethylation. In Arabidopsis, active DNA demethylation is mediated by the ROS1
(repressor of silencing 1) subfamily of 5-methylcytosine DNA glycosylases through
a base excision repair pathway. These demethylases have critical roles in erasing
DNA methylation and preventing TGS of target genes. However, it is not known how 
the demethylases are targeted to specific sequences. Here we report the
identification of ROS3, an essential regulator of DNA demethylation that contains
an RNA recognition motif. Analysis of ros3 mutants and ros1 ros3 double mutants
suggests that ROS3 acts in the same genetic pathway as ROS1 to prevent DNA
hypermethylation and TGS. Gel mobility shift assays and analysis of ROS3
immunoprecipitate from plant extracts shows that ROS3 binds to small RNAs in
vitro and in vivo. Immunostaining shows that ROS3 and ROS1 proteins co-localize
in discrete foci dispersed throughout the nucleus. These results demonstrate a
critical role for ROS3 in preventing DNA hypermethylation and suggest that DNA
demethylation by ROS1 may be guided by RNAs bound to ROS3.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07305 
PMCID: PMC2782394
PMID: 18815596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1244-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07344. Epub 2008 Sep 24.

GILT is a critical host factor for Listeria monocytogenes infection.

Singh R(1), Jamieson A, Cresswell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, 300 Cedar
Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06250-8011, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1186-7.

Listeria monocytogenes is a gram-positive, intracellular, food-borne pathogen
that can cause severe illness in humans and animals. On infection, it is actively
phagocytosed by macrophages; it then escapes from the phagosome, replicates in
the cytosol, and subsequently spreads from cell to cell by a non-lytic mechanism 
driven by actin polymerization. Penetration of the phagosomal membrane is
initiated by the secreted haemolysin listeriolysin O (LLO), which is essential
for vacuolar escape in vitro and for virulence in animal models of infection.
Reduction is required to activate the lytic activity of LLO in vitro, and we show
here that reduction by the enzyme gamma-interferon-inducible lysosomal thiol
reductase (GILT, also called Ifi30) is responsible for the activation of LLO in
vivo. GILT is a soluble thiol reductase expressed constitutively within the
lysosomes of antigen-presenting cells, and it accumulates in macrophage
phagosomes as they mature into phagolysosomes. The enzyme is delivered by a
mannose-6-phosphate receptor-dependent mechanism to the endocytic pathway, where 
amino- and carboxy-terminal pro-peptides are cleaved to generate a 30-kDa mature 
enzyme. The active site of GILT contains two cysteine residues in a CXXC motif
that catalyses the reduction of disulphide bonds. Mice lacking GILT are deficient
in generating major histocompatibility complex class-II-restricted CD4(+) T-cell 
responses to protein antigens that contain disulphide bonds. Here we show that
these mice are resistant to L. monocytogenes infection. Replication of the
organism in GILT-negative macrophages, or macrophages expressing an enzymatically
inactive GILT mutant, is impaired because of delayed escape from the phagosome.
GILT activates LLO within the phagosome by the thiol reductase mechanism shared
by members of the thioredoxin family. In addition, purified GILT activates
recombinant LLO, facilitating membrane permeabilization and red blood cell lysis.
The data show that GILT is a critical host factor that facilitates L.
monocytogenes infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07344 
PMCID: PMC2775488
PMID: 18815593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1198-204. doi: 10.1038/nature07319. Epub 2008 Sep
24.

Activity-dependent regulation of inhibitory synapse development by Npas4.

Lin Y(1), Bloodgood BL, Hauser JL, Lapan AD, Koon AC, Kim TK, Hu LS, Malik AN,
Greenberg ME.

Author information: 
(1)F. M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Children's Hospital and Department of
Neurology, Harvard Medical School, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Neuronal activity regulates the development and maturation of excitatory and
inhibitory synapses in the mammalian brain. Several recent studies have
identified signalling networks within neurons that control excitatory synapse
development. However, less is known about the molecular mechanisms that regulate 
the activity-dependent development of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid)-releasing
inhibitory synapses. Here we report the identification of a transcription factor,
Npas4, that plays a role in the development of inhibitory synapses by regulating 
the expression of activity-dependent genes, which in turn control the number of
GABA-releasing synapses that form on excitatory neurons. These findings
demonstrate that the activity-dependent gene program regulates inhibitory synapse
development, and suggest a new role for this program in controlling the
homeostatic balance between synaptic excitation and inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07319 
PMCID: PMC2637532
PMID: 18815592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1205-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07284. Epub 2008 Sep 17.

Glycogen synthase kinase 3 in MLL leukaemia maintenance and targeted therapy.

Wang Z(1), Smith KS, Murphy M, Piloto O, Somervaille TC, Cleary ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a multifunctional serine/threonine kinase
that participates in numerous signalling pathways involved in diverse
physiological processes. Several of these pathways are implicated in disease
pathogenesis, which has prompted efforts to develop GSK3-specific inhibitors for 
therapeutic applications. However, before now, there has been no strong rationale
for targeting GSK3 in malignancies. Here we report pharmacological, physiological
and genetic studies that demonstrate an oncogenic requirement for GSK3 in the
maintenance of a specific subtype of poor prognosis human leukaemia, genetically 
defined by mutations of the MLL proto-oncogene. In contrast to its previously
characterized roles in suppression of neoplasia-associated signalling pathways,
GSK3 paradoxically supports MLL leukaemia cell proliferation and transformation
by a mechanism that ultimately involves destabilization of the cyclin-dependent
kinase inhibitor p27(Kip1). Inhibition of GSK3 in a preclinical murine model of
MLL leukaemia provides promising evidence of efficacy and earmarks GSK3 as a
candidate cancer drug target.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07284 
PMCID: PMC4084721
PMID: 18806775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1263-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07326. Epub 2008 Sep 10.

Structural insights into amino acid binding and gene control by a lysine
riboswitch.

Serganov A(1), Huang L, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA. serganoa@mskcc.org

In bacteria, the intracellular concentration of several amino acids is controlled
by riboswitches. One of the important regulatory circuits involves
lysine-specific riboswitches, which direct the biosynthesis and transport of
lysine and precursors common for lysine and other amino acids. To understand the 
molecular basis of amino acid recognition by riboswitches, here we present the
crystal structure of the 174-nucleotide sensing domain of the Thermotoga maritima
lysine riboswitch in the lysine-bound (1.9 ångström (A)) and free (3.1 A) states.
The riboswitch features an unusual and intricate architecture, involving
three-helical and two-helical bundles connected by a compact five-helical
junction and stabilized by various long-range tertiary interactions. Lysine
interacts with the junctional core of the riboswitch and is specifically
recognized through shape-complementarity within the elongated binding pocket and 
through several direct and K(+)-mediated hydrogen bonds to its charged ends. Our 
structural and biochemical studies indicate preformation of the riboswitch
scaffold and identify conformational changes associated with the formation of a
stable lysine-bound state, which prevents alternative folding of the riboswitch
and facilitates formation of downstream regulatory elements. We have also
determined several structures of the riboswitch bound to different lysine
analogues, including antibiotics, in an effort to understand the ligand-binding
capabilities of the lysine riboswitch and understand the nature of antibiotic
resistance. Our results provide insights into a mechanism of
lysine-riboswitch-dependent gene control at the molecular level, thereby
contributing to continuing efforts at exploration of the pharmaceutical and
biotechnological potential of riboswitches.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07326 
PMCID: PMC3726722
PMID: 18784651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1268-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07298. Epub 2008 Sep
10.

Concurrent nucleation of 16S folding and induced fit in 30S ribosome assembly.

Adilakshmi T(1), Bellur DL, Woodson SA.

Author information: 
(1)T.C. Jenkins Department of Biophysics, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 North
Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218-2685, USA.

Rapidly growing cells produce thousands of new ribosomes each minute, in a
tightly regulated process that is essential to cell growth. How the Escherichia
coli 16S ribosomal RNA and the 20 proteins that make up the 30S ribosomal subunit
can assemble correctly in a few minutes remains a challenging problem, partly
because of the lack of real-time data on the earliest stages of assembly. By
providing snapshots of individual RNA and protein interactions as they emerge in 
real time, here we show that 30S assembly nucleates concurrently from different
points along the rRNA. Time-resolved hydroxyl radical footprinting was used to
map changes in the structure of the rRNA within 20 milliseconds after the
addition of total 30S proteins. Helical junctions in each domain fold within 100 
ms. In contrast, interactions surrounding the decoding site and between the 5',
the central and the 3' domains require 2-200 seconds to form. Unexpectedly,
nucleotides contacted by the same protein are protected at different rates,
indicating that initial RNA-protein encounter complexes refold during assembly.
Although early steps in assembly are linked to intrinsically stable rRNA
structure, later steps correspond to regions of induced fit between the proteins 
and the rRNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07298 
PMCID: PMC2720798
PMID: 18784650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 2008 Oct 30;455(7217):1210-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07313. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

TMEM16A confers receptor-activated calcium-dependent chloride conductance.

Yang YD(1), Cho H, Koo JY, Tak MH, Cho Y, Shim WS, Park SP, Lee J, Lee B, Kim BM,
Raouf R, Shin YK, Oh U.

Author information: 
(1)Sensory Research Center, CRI, College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, 
Seoul 151-742, Korea.

Calcium (Ca(2+))-activated chloride channels are fundamental mediators in
numerous physiological processes including transepithelial secretion, cardiac and
neuronal excitation, sensory transduction, smooth muscle contraction and
fertilization. Despite their physiological importance, their molecular identity
has remained largely unknown. Here we show that transmembrane protein 16A
(TMEM16A, which we also call anoctamin 1 (ANO1)) is a bona fide Ca(2+)-activated 
chloride channel that is activated by intracellular Ca(2+) and Ca(2+)-mobilizing 
stimuli. With eight putative transmembrane domains and no apparent similarity to 
previously characterized channels, ANO1 defines a new family of ionic channels.
The biophysical properties as well as the pharmacological profile of ANO1 are in 
full agreement with native Ca(2+)-activated chloride currents. ANO1 is expressed 
in various secretory epithelia, the retina and sensory neurons. Furthermore,
knockdown of mouse Ano1 markedly reduced native Ca(2+)-activated chloride
currents as well as saliva production in mice. We conclude that ANO1 is a
candidate Ca(2+)-activated chloride channel that mediates receptor-activated
chloride currents in diverse physiological processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07313 
PMID: 18724360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1138-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07340.

Protein-folding location can regulate manganese-binding versus copper- or
zinc-binding.

Tottey S(1), Waldron KJ, Firbank SJ, Reale B, Bessant C, Sato K, Cheek TR, Gray
J, Banfield MJ, Dennison C, Robinson NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cell and Molecular Biosciences, Medical School, Newcastle University,
Newcastle NE2 4HH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1043-4.

Metals are needed by at least one-quarter of all proteins. Although
metallochaperones insert the correct metal into some proteins, they have not been
found for the vast majority, and the view is that most metalloproteins acquire
their metals directly from cellular pools. However, some metals form more stable 
complexes with proteins than do others. For instance, as described in the
Irving-Williams series, Cu(2+) and Zn(2+) typically form more stable complexes
than Mn(2+). Thus it is unclear what cellular mechanisms manage metal acquisition
by most nascent proteins. To investigate this question, we identified the most
abundant Cu(2+)-protein, CucA (Cu(2+)-cupin A), and the most abundant
Mn(2+)-protein, MncA (Mn(2+)-cupin A), in the periplasm of the cyanobacterium
Synechocystis PCC 6803. Each of these newly identified proteins binds its
respective metal via identical ligands within a cupin fold. Consistent with the
Irving-Williams series, MncA only binds Mn(2+) after folding in solutions
containing at least a 10(4) times molar excess of Mn(2+) over Cu(2+) or Zn(2+).
However once MncA has bound Mn(2+), the metal does not exchange with Cu(2+). MncA
and CucA have signal peptides for different export pathways into the periplasm,
Tat and Sec respectively. Export by the Tat pathway allows MncA to fold in the
cytoplasm, which contains only tightly bound copper or Zn(2+) (refs 10-12) but
micromolar Mn(2+) (ref. 13). In contrast, CucA folds in the periplasm to acquire 
Cu(2+). These results reveal a mechanism whereby the compartment in which a
protein folds overrides its binding preference to control its metal content. They
explain why the cytoplasm must contain only tightly bound and buffered copper and
Zn(2+).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07340 
PMID: 18948958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1134-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07289.

Control of plant germline proliferation by SCF(FBL17) degradation of cell cycle
inhibitors.

Kim HJ(1), Oh SA, Brownfield L, Hong SH, Ryu H, Hwang I, Twell D, Nam HG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and
Technology, Pohang 790-784, South Korea.

Flowering plants possess a unique reproductive strategy, involving double
fertilization by twin sperm cells. Unlike animal germ lines, the male germ cell
lineage in plants only forms after meiosis and involves asymmetric division of
haploid microspores, to produce a large, non-germline vegetative cell and a germ 
cell that undergoes one further division to produce the twin sperm cells.
Although this switch in cell cycle control is critical for sperm cell production 
and delivery, the underlying molecular mechanisms are unknown. Here we identify a
novel F-box protein of Arabidopsis thaliana, designated FBL17 (F-box-like 17),
that enables this switch by targeting the degradation of cyclin-dependent kinase 
A;1 inhibitors specifically in male germ cells. We show that FBL17 is transiently
expressed in the male germ line after asymmetric division and forms an
SKP1-Cullin1-F-box protein (SCF) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex (SCF(FBL17)) that
targets the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors KRP6 and KRP7 for
proteasome-dependent degradation. Accordingly, the loss of FBL17 function leads
to the stabilization of KRP6 and inhibition of germ cell cycle progression. Our
results identify SCF(FBL17) as an essential male germ cell proliferation complex 
that promotes twin sperm cell production and double fertilization in flowering
plants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07289 
PMID: 18948957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1129-33. doi: 10.1038/nature07443.

p53 and Pten control neural and glioma stem/progenitor cell renewal and
differentiation.

Zheng H(1), Ying H, Yan H, Kimmelman AC, Hiller DJ, Chen AJ, Perry SR, Tonon G,
Chu GC, Ding Z, Stommel JM, Dunn KL, Wiedemeyer R, You MJ, Brennan C, Wang YA,
Ligon KL, Wong WH, Chin L, DePinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly lethal brain tumour presenting as one of two
subtypes with distinct clinical histories and molecular profiles. The primary GBM
subtype presents acutely as a high-grade disease that typically harbours
mutations in EGFR, PTEN and INK4A/ARF (also known as CDKN2A), and the secondary
GBM subtype evolves from the slow progression of a low-grade disease that
classically possesses PDGF and TP53 events. Here we show that concomitant central
nervous system (CNS)-specific deletion of p53 and Pten in the mouse CNS generates
a penetrant acute-onset high-grade malignant glioma phenotype with notable
clinical, pathological and molecular resemblance to primary GBM in humans. This
genetic observation prompted TP53 and PTEN mutational analysis in human primary
GBM, demonstrating unexpectedly frequent inactivating mutations of TP53 as well
as the expected PTEN mutations. Integrated transcriptomic profiling, in silico
promoter analysis and functional studies of murine neural stem cells (NSCs)
established that dual, but not singular, inactivation of p53 and Pten promotes an
undifferentiated state with high renewal potential and drives increased Myc
protein levels and its associated signature. Functional studies validated
increased Myc activity as a potent contributor to the impaired differentiation
and enhanced renewal of NSCs doubly null for p53 and Pten (p53(-/-) Pten(-/-)) as
well as tumour neurospheres (TNSs) derived from this model. Myc also serves to
maintain robust tumorigenic potential of p53(-/-) Pten(-/-) TNSs. These murine
modelling studies, together with confirmatory transcriptomic/promoter studies in 
human primary GBM, validate a pathogenetic role of a common tumour suppressor
mutation profile in human primary GBM and establish Myc as an important target
for cooperative actions of p53 and Pten in the regulation of normal and malignant
stem/progenitor cell differentiation, self-renewal and tumorigenic potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07443 
PMCID: PMC4051433
PMID: 18948956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07447.

A bizarre Jurassic maniraptoran from China with elongate ribbon-like feathers.

Zhang F(1), Zhou Z, Xu X, Wang X, Sullivan C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of Vertebrate
Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, PO Box 643,
Beijing 100044, China. zhangfucheng@ivpp.ac.cn

Recent coelurosaurian discoveries have greatly enriched our knowledge of the
transition from dinosaurs to birds, but all reported taxa close to this
transition are from relatively well known coelurosaurian groups. Here we report a
new basal avialan, Epidexipteryx hui gen. et sp. nov., from the Middle to Late
Jurassic of Inner Mongolia, China. This new species is characterized by an
unexpected combination of characters seen in several different theropod groups,
particularly the Oviraptorosauria. Phylogenetic analysis shows it to be the
sister taxon to Epidendrosaurus, forming a new clade at the base of Avialae.
Epidexipteryx also possesses two pairs of elongate ribbon-like tail feathers, and
its limbs lack contour feathers for flight. This finding shows that a member of
the avialan lineage experimented with integumentary ornamentation as early as the
Middle to Late Jurassic, and provides further evidence relating to this aspect of
the transition from non-avian theropods to birds.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07447 
PMID: 18948955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07381.

Reassessing the first appearance of eukaryotes and cyanobacteria.

Rasmussen B(1), Fletcher IR, Brocks JJ, Kilburn MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Geology, Curtin University of Technology, Kent Street,
Bentley, Western Australia 6102, Australia. B.Rasmussen@curtin.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1051-2.

The evolution of oxygenic photosynthesis had a profound impact on the Earth's
surface chemistry, leading to a sharp rise in atmospheric oxygen between 2.45 and
2.32 billion years (Gyr) ago and the onset of extreme ice ages. The oldest widely
accepted evidence for oxygenic photosynthesis has come from hydrocarbons
extracted from approximately 2.7-Gyr-old shales in the Pilbara Craton, Australia,
which contain traces of biomarkers (molecular fossils) indicative of eukaryotes
and suggestive of oxygen-producing cyanobacteria. The soluble hydrocarbons were
interpreted to be indigenous and syngenetic despite metamorphic alteration and
extreme enrichment (10-20 per thousand) of (13)C relative to bulk sedimentary
organic matter. Here we present micrometre-scale, in situ (13)C/(12)C
measurements of pyrobitumen (thermally altered petroleum) and kerogen from these 
metamorphosed shales, including samples that originally yielded biomarkers. Our
results show that both kerogen and pyrobitumen are strongly depleted in (13)C,
indicating that indigenous petroleum is 10-20 per thousand lighter than the
extracted hydrocarbons. These results are inconsistent with an indigenous origin 
for the biomarkers. Whatever their origin, the biomarkers must have entered the
rock after peak metamorphism approximately 2.2 Gyr ago and thus do not provide
evidence for the existence of eukaryotes and cyanobacteria in the Archaean eon.
The oldest fossil evidence for eukaryotes and cyanobacteria therefore reverts to 
1.78-1.68 Gyr ago and approximately 2.15 Gyr ago, respectively. Our results
eliminate the evidence for oxygenic photosynthesis approximately 2.7 Gyr ago and 
exclude previous biomarker evidence for a long delay (approximately 300 million
years) between the appearance of oxygen-producing cyanobacteria and the rise in
atmospheric oxygen 2.45-2.32 Gyr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07381 
PMID: 18948954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1082-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07366.

Galaxies appear simpler than expected.

Disney MJ(1), Romano JD, Garcia-Appadoo DA, West AA, Dalcanton JJ, Cortese L.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics & Astronomy, Cardiff University, 5 The Parade, Cardiff CF24 
3AA, UK. mjd@astro.cf.ac.uk

Galaxies are complex systems the evolution of which apparently results from the
interplay of dynamics, star formation, chemical enrichment and feedback from
supernova explosions and supermassive black holes. The hierarchical theory of
galaxy formation holds that galaxies are assembled from smaller pieces, through
numerous mergers of cold dark matter. The properties of an individual galaxy
should be controlled by six independent parameters including mass, angular
momentum, baryon fraction, age and size, as well as by the accidents of its
recent haphazard merger history. Here we report that a sample of galaxies that
were first detected through their neutral hydrogen radio-frequency emission, and 
are thus free from optical selection effects, shows five independent correlations
among six independent observables, despite having a wide range of properties.
This implies that the structure of these galaxies must be controlled by a single 
parameter, although we cannot identify this parameter from our data set. Such a
degree of organization appears to be at odds with hierarchical galaxy formation, 
a central tenet of the cold dark matter model in cosmology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07366 
PMID: 18948949 


215. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1076-81. doi: 10.1038/nature07396.

BAX activation is initiated at a novel interaction site.

Gavathiotis E(1), Suzuki M, Davis ML, Pitter K, Bird GH, Katz SG, Tu HC, Kim H,
Cheng EH, Tjandra N, Walensky LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology and the Program in Cancer Chemical Biology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1047-9.

BAX is a pro-apoptotic protein of the BCL-2 family that is stationed in the
cytosol until activated by a diversity of stress stimuli to induce cell death.
Anti-apoptotic proteins such as BCL-2 counteract BAX-mediated cell death.
Although an interaction site that confers survival functionality has been defined
for anti-apoptotic proteins, an activation site has not been identified for BAX, 
rendering its explicit trigger mechanism unknown. We previously developed
stabilized alpha-helix of BCL-2 domains (SAHBs) that directly initiate
BAX-mediated mitochondrial apoptosis. Here we demonstrate by NMR analysis that
BIM SAHB binds BAX at an interaction site that is distinct from the canonical
binding groove characterized for anti-apoptotic proteins. The specificity of the 
human BIM-SAHB-BAX interaction is highlighted by point mutagenesis that disrupts 
functional activity, confirming that BAX activation is initiated at this novel
structural location. Thus, we have now defined a BAX interaction site for direct 
activation, establishing a new target for therapeutic modulation of apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07396 
PMCID: PMC2597110
PMID: 18948948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1069-75. doi: 10.1038/nature07423.

Somatic mutations affect key pathways in lung adenocarcinoma.

Ding L(1), Getz G, Wheeler DA, Mardis ER, McLellan MD, Cibulskis K, Sougnez C,
Greulich H, Muzny DM, Morgan MB, Fulton L, Fulton RS, Zhang Q, Wendl MC, Lawrence
MS, Larson DE, Chen K, Dooling DJ, Sabo A, Hawes AC, Shen H, Jhangiani SN, Lewis 
LR, Hall O, Zhu Y, Mathew T, Ren Y, Yao J, Scherer SE, Clerc K, Metcalf GA, Ng B,
Milosavljevic A, Gonzalez-Garay ML, Osborne JR, Meyer R, Shi X, Tang Y, Koboldt
DC, Lin L, Abbott R, Miner TL, Pohl C, Fewell G, Haipek C, Schmidt H,
Dunford-Shore BH, Kraja A, Crosby SD, Sawyer CS, Vickery T, Sander S, Robinson J,
Winckler W, Baldwin J, Chirieac LR, Dutt A, Fennell T, Hanna M, Johnson BE,
Onofrio RC, Thomas RK, Tonon G, Weir BA, Zhao X, Ziaugra L, Zody MC, Giordano T, 
Orringer MB, Roth JA, Spitz MR, Wistuba II, Ozenberger B, Good PJ, Chang AC, Beer
DG, Watson MA, Ladanyi M, Broderick S, Yoshizawa A, Travis WD, Pao W, Province
MA, Weinstock GM, Varmus HE, Gabriel SB, Lander ES, Gibbs RA, Meyerson M, Wilson 
RK.

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Center at Washington University, Department of Genetics, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Determining the genetic basis of cancer requires comprehensive analyses of large 
collections of histopathologically well-classified primary tumours. Here we
report the results of a collaborative study to discover somatic mutations in 188 
human lung adenocarcinomas. DNA sequencing of 623 genes with known or potential
relationships to cancer revealed more than 1,000 somatic mutations across the
samples. Our analysis identified 26 genes that are mutated at significantly high 
frequencies and thus are probably involved in carcinogenesis. The frequently
mutated genes include tyrosine kinases, among them the EGFR homologue ERBB4;
multiple ephrin receptor genes, notably EPHA3; vascular endothelial growth factor
receptor KDR; and NTRK genes. These data provide evidence of somatic mutations in
primary lung adenocarcinoma for several tumour suppressor genes involved in other
cancers--including NF1, APC, RB1 and ATM--and for sequence changes in PTPRD as
well as the frequently deleted gene LRP1B. The observed mutational profiles
correlate with clinical features, smoking status and DNA repair defects. These
results are reinforced by data integration including single nucleotide
polymorphism array and gene expression array. Our findings shed further light on 
several important signalling pathways involved in lung adenocarcinoma, and
suggest new molecular targets for treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07423 
PMCID: PMC2694412
PMID: 18948947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1057-60. doi: 10.1038/4551057a.

The mental wealth of nations.

Beddington J(1), Cooper CL, Field J, Goswami U, Huppert FA, Jenkins R, Jones HS, 
Kirkwood TB, Sahakian BJ, Thomas SM.

Author information: 
(1)Government Office for Science, London.

Countries must learn how to capitalize on their citizens' cognitive resources if 
they are to prosper, both economically and socially. Early interventions will be 
key.

DOI: 10.1038/4551057a 
PMID: 18948946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1040-1. doi: 10.1038/4551040a.

A question of class.

Parsons J(1), Wand Y.

Author information: 
(1)Memorial University of Newfoundland. jeffreyp@mun.ca

Fundamental misunderstandings about classification can lead scientists down
unproductive or dangerous paths, argue Jeffrey Parsons and Yair Wand.

DOI: 10.1038/4551040a 
PMID: 18948935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1038-9. doi: 10.1038/4551038a.

Being human: Religion: bound to believe?

Boyer P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Washington University in St Louis, Missouri, USA.
pboyer@wustl.edu

Atheism will always be a harder sell than religion, Pascal Boyer explains,
because a slew of cognitive traits predispose us to faith.

DOI: 10.1038/4551038a 
PMID: 18948934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1030-1. doi: 10.1038/4551030a.

The charge of technology.

Edgerton D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for the History of Science, Technology and Medicine, Imperial College
London, London SW7 2AZ, UK. d.edgerton@imperial.ac.uk

Science policies based on techno-nationalist thinking and fantasies about the
past technological revolutions will get us nowhere fast, says David Edgerton.

DOI: 10.1038/4551030a 
PMID: 18948929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1119-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07329. Epub 2008 Sep
21.

Paracrine Wingless signalling controls self-renewal of Drosophila intestinal stem
cells.

Lin G(1), Xu N, Xi R.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate program, Peking Union Medical College and Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100730, China.

In the Drosophila midgut, multipotent intestinal stem cells (ISCs) that are
scattered along the epithelial basement membrane maintain tissue homeostasis by
their ability to steadily produce daughters that differentiate into either
enterocytes or enteroendocrine cells, depending on the levels of Notch activity. 
However, the mechanisms controlling ISC self-renewal remain elusive. Here we show
that a canonical Wnt signalling pathway controls ISC self-renewal. The ligand
Wingless (Wg) is specifically expressed in the circular muscles next to ISCs,
separated by a thin layer of basement membrane. Reduced function of wg causes ISC
quiescence and differentiation, whereas wg overexpression produces excessive
ISC-like cells that express high levels of the Notch ligand, Delta. Clonal
analysis shows that the main downstream components of the Wg pathway, including
Frizzled, Dishevelled and Armadillo, are autonomously required for ISC
self-renewal. Furthermore, epistatic analysis suggests that Notch acts downstream
of the Wg pathway and a hierarchy of Wg/Notch signalling pathways controls the
balance between self-renewal and differentiation of ISCs. These data suggest that
the underlying circular muscle constitutes the ISC niche, which produce Wg
signals that act directly on ISCs to promote ISC self-renewal. This study
demonstrates markedly conserved mechanisms regulating ISCs from Drosophila to
mammals. The identification of the Drosophila ISC niche and the principal
self-renewal signal will facilitate further understanding of intestinal
homeostasis control and tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07329 
PMID: 18806781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07336. Epub 2008 Sep
21.

Innate immunity and intestinal microbiota in the development of Type 1 diabetes.

Wen L(1), Ley RE, Volchkov PY, Stranges PB, Avanesyan L, Stonebraker AC, Hu C,
Wong FS, Szot GL, Bluestone JA, Gordon JI, Chervonsky AV.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2009 Jul;137(1):381-3.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a debilitating autoimmune disease that results from
T-cell-mediated destruction of insulin-producing beta-cells. Its incidence has
increased during the past several decades in developed countries, suggesting that
changes in the environment (including the human microbial environment) may
influence disease pathogenesis. The incidence of spontaneous T1D in non-obese
diabetic (NOD) mice can be affected by the microbial environment in the animal
housing facility or by exposure to microbial stimuli, such as injection with
mycobacteria or various microbial products. Here we show that specific
pathogen-free NOD mice lacking MyD88 protein (an adaptor for multiple innate
immune receptors that recognize microbial stimuli) do not develop T1D. The effect
is dependent on commensal microbes because germ-free MyD88-negative NOD mice
develop robust diabetes, whereas colonization of these germ-free MyD88-negative
NOD mice with a defined microbial consortium (representing bacterial phyla
normally present in human gut) attenuates T1D. We also find that MyD88 deficiency
changes the composition of the distal gut microbiota, and that exposure to the
microbiota of specific pathogen-free MyD88-negative NOD donors attenuates T1D in 
germ-free NOD recipients. Together, these findings indicate that interaction of
the intestinal microbes with the innate immune system is a critical epigenetic
factor modifying T1D predisposition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07336 
PMCID: PMC2574766
PMID: 18806780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1124-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07299. Epub 2008 Sep 17.

MicroRNAs to Nanog, Oct4 and Sox2 coding regions modulate embryonic stem cell
differentiation.

Tay Y(1), Zhang J, Thomson AM, Lim B, Rigoutsos I.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell and Developmental Biology, Genome Institute of Singapore, Agency for
Science Technology and Research, #08-01, Genome, 60 Biopolis Street, Singapore
138672, Singapore.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):538.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNAs that direct messenger RNA degradation or
disrupt mRNA translation in a sequence-dependent manner. For more than a decade, 
attempts to study the interaction of miRNAs with their targets were confined to
the 3' untranslated regions of mRNAs, fuelling an underlying assumption that
these regions are the principal recipients of miRNA activity. Here we focus on
the mouse Nanog, Oct4 (also known as Pou5f1) and Sox2 genes and demonstrate the
existence of many naturally occurring miRNA targets in their amino acid coding
sequence (CDS). Some of the mouse targets analysed do not contain the miRNA seed,
whereas others span exon-exon junctions or are not conserved in the human and
rhesus genomes. miR-134, miR-296 and miR-470, upregulated on
retinoic-acid-induced differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells, target the
CDS of each transcription factor in various combinations, leading to
transcriptional and morphological changes characteristic of differentiating mouse
embryonic stem cells, and resulting in a new phenotype. Silent mutations at the
predicted targets abolish miRNA activity, prevent the downregulation of the
corresponding genes and delay the induced phenotype. Our findings demonstrate the
abundance of CDS-located miRNA targets, some of which can be species-specific,
and support an augmented model whereby animal miRNAs exercise their control on
mRNAs through targets that can reside beyond the 3' untranslated region.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07299 
PMID: 18806776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1114-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07303. Epub 2008 Sep 17.

Conjugated action of two species-specific invasion proteins for fetoplacental
listeriosis.

Disson O(1), Grayo S, Huillet E, Nikitas G, Langa-Vives F, Dussurget O, Ragon M, 
Le Monnier A, Babinet C, Cossart P, Lecuit M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Groupe Microorganismes et Barrières de l'Hôte, Unité des
Interactions Bactéries-Cellules, F-75015 Paris, France.

The ability to cross host barriers is an essential virulence determinant of
invasive microbial pathogens. Listeria monocytogenes is a model microorganism
that crosses human intestinal and placental barriers, and causes severe
maternofetal infections by an unknown mechanism. Several studies have helped to
characterize the bacterial invasion proteins InlA and InlB. However, their
respective species specificity has complicated investigations on their in vivo
role. Here we describe two novel and complementary animal models for human
listeriosis: the gerbil, a natural host for L. monocytogenes, and a knock-in
mouse line ubiquitously expressing humanized E-cadherin. Using these two models, 
we uncover the essential and interdependent roles of InlA and InlB in
fetoplacental listeriosis, and thereby decipher the molecular mechanism
underlying the ability of a microbe to target and cross the placental barrier.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07303 
PMID: 18806773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2008 Oct 23;455(7216):1061-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07385. Epub 2008 Sep 4.

Comprehensive genomic characterization defines human glioblastoma genes and core 
pathways.

Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network.

Collaborators: McLendon R, Friedman A, Bigner D, Van Meir EG, Brat DJ,
Mastrogianakis GM, Olson JJ, Mikkelsen T, Lehman N, Aldape K, Yung WK, Bogler O, 
Weinstein JN, VandenBerg S, Berger M, Prados M, Muzny D, Morgan M, Scherer S,
Sabo A, Nazareth L, Lewis L, Hall O, Zhu Y, Ren Y, Alvi O, Yao J, Hawes A,
Jhangiani S, Fowler G, San Lucas A, Kovar C, Cree A, Dinh H, Santibanez J, Joshi 
V, Gonzalez-Garay ML, Miller CA, Milosavljevic A, Donehower L, Wheeler DA, Gibbs 
RA, Cibulskis K, Sougnez C, Fennell T, Mahan S, Wilkinson J, Ziaugra L, Onofrio
R, Bloom T, Nicol R, Ardlie K, Baldwin J, Gabriel S, Lander ES, Ding L, Fulton
RS, McLellan MD, Wallis J, Larson DE, Shi X, Abbott R, Fulton L, Chen K, Koboldt 
DC, Wendl MC, Meyer R, Tang Y, Lin L, Osborne JR, Dunford-Shore BH, Miner TL,
Delehaunty K, Markovic C, Swift G, Courtney W, Pohl C, Abbott S, Hawkins A, Leong
S, Haipek C, Schmidt H, Wiechert M, Vickery T, Scott S, Dooling DJ, Chinwalla A, 
Weinstock GM, Mardis ER, Wilson RK, Getz G, Winckler W, Verhaak RG, Lawrence MS, 
O'Kelly M, Robinson J, Alexe G, Beroukhim R, Carter S, Chiang D, Gould J, Gupta
S, Korn J, Mermel C, Mesirov J, Monti S, Nguyen H, Parkin M, Reich M, Stransky N,
Weir BA, Garraway L, Golub T, Meyerson M, Chin L, Protopopov A, Zhang J, Perna I,
Aronson S, Sathiamoorthy N, Ren G, Yao J, Wiedemeyer WR, Kim H, Kong SW, Xiao Y, 
Kohane IS, Seidman J, Park PJ, Kucherlapati R, Laird PW, Cope L, Herman JG,
Weisenberger DJ, Pan F, Van den Berg D, Van Neste L, Yi JM, Schuebel KE, Baylin
SB, Absher DM, Li JZ, Southwick A, Brady S, Aggarwal A, Chung T, Sherlock G,
Brooks JD, Myers RM, Spellman PT, Purdom E, Jakkula LR, Lapuk AV, Marr H, Dorton 
S, Choi YG, Han J, Ray A, Wang V, Durinck S, Robinson M, Wang NJ, Vranizan K,
Peng V, Van Name E, Fontenay GV, Ngai J, Conboy JG, Parvin B, Feiler HS, Speed
TP, Gray JW, Brennan C, Socci ND, Olshen A, Taylor BS, Lash A, Schultz N, Reva B,
Antipin Y, Stukalov A, Gross B, Cerami E, Wang WQ, Qin LX, Seshan VE, Villafania 
L, Cavatore M, Borsu L, Viale A, Gerald W, Sander C, Ladanyi M, Perou CM, Hayes
DN, Topal MD, Hoadley KA, Qi Y, Balu S, Shi Y, Wu J, Penny R, Bittner M, Shelton 
T, Lenkiewicz E, Morris S, Beasley D, Sanders S, Kahn A, Sfeir R, Chen J, Nassau 
D, Feng L, Hickey E, Barker A, Gerhard DS, Vockley J, Compton C, Vaught J,
Fielding P, Ferguson ML, Schaefer C, Zhang J, Madhavan S, Buetow KH, Collins F,
Good P, Guyer M, Ozenberger B, Peterson J, Thomson E.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 28;494(7438):506.

Human cancer cells typically harbour multiple chromosomal aberrations, nucleotide
substitutions and epigenetic modifications that drive malignant transformation.
The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pilot project aims to assess the value of
large-scale multi-dimensional analysis of these molecular characteristics in
human cancer and to provide the data rapidly to the research community. Here we
report the interim integrative analysis of DNA copy number, gene expression and
DNA methylation aberrations in 206 glioblastomas--the most common type of adult
brain cancer--and nucleotide sequence aberrations in 91 of the 206 glioblastomas.
This analysis provides new insights into the roles of ERBB2, NF1 and TP53,
uncovers frequent mutations of the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase regulatory
subunit gene PIK3R1, and provides a network view of the pathways altered in the
development of glioblastoma. Furthermore, integration of mutation, DNA
methylation and clinical treatment data reveals a link between MGMT promoter
methylation and a hypermutator phenotype consequent to mismatch repair deficiency
in treated glioblastomas, an observation with potential clinical implications.
Together, these findings establish the feasibility and power of TCGA,
demonstrating that it can rapidly expand knowledge of the molecular basis of
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07385 
PMCID: PMC2671642
PMID: 18772890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):988-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07421.

Conformational transition of Sec machinery inferred from bacterial SecYE
structures.

Tsukazaki T(1), Mori H, Fukai S, Ishitani R, Mori T, Dohmae N, Perederina A,
Sugita Y, Vassylyev DG, Ito K, Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Information, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku,
Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 226-8501, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):879-80.

Over 30% of proteins are secreted across or integrated into membranes. Their
newly synthesized forms contain either cleavable signal sequences or
non-cleavable membrane anchor sequences, which direct them to the evolutionarily 
conserved Sec translocon (SecYEG in prokaryotes and Sec61, comprising alpha-,
gamma- and beta-subunits, in eukaryotes). The translocon then functions as a
protein-conducting channel. These processes of protein localization occur either 
at or after translation. In bacteria, the SecA ATPase drives post-translational
translocation. The only high-resolution structure of a translocon available so
far is that for SecYEbeta from the archaeon Methanococcus jannaschii, which lacks
SecA. Here we present the 3.2-A-resolution crystal structure of the SecYE
translocon from a SecA-containing organism, Thermus thermophilus. The structure, 
solved as a complex with an anti-SecY Fab fragment, revealed a 'pre-open' state
of SecYE, in which several transmembrane helices are shifted, as compared to the 
previous SecYEbeta structure, to create a hydrophobic crack open to the
cytoplasm. Fab and SecA bind to a common site at the tip of the cytoplasmic
domain of SecY. Molecular dynamics and disulphide mapping analyses suggest that
the pre-open state might represent a SecYE conformational transition that is
inducible by SecA binding. Moreover, we identified a SecA-SecYE interface that
comprises SecA residues originally buried inside the protein, indicating that
both the channel and the motor components of the Sec machinery undergo
cooperative conformational changes on formation of the functional complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07421 
PMCID: PMC2590585
PMID: 18923527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):984-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07439.

A role for the two-helix finger of the SecA ATPase in protein translocation.

Erlandson KJ(1), Miller SB, Nam Y, Osborne AR, Zimmer J, Rapoport TA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard
Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):879-80.

An important step in the biosynthesis of many proteins is their partial or
complete translocation across the plasma membrane in prokaryotes or the
endoplasmic reticulum membrane in eukaryotes. In bacteria, secretory proteins are
generally translocated after completion of their synthesis by the interaction of 
the cytoplasmic ATPase SecA and a protein-conducting channel formed by the SecY
complex. How SecA moves substrates through the SecY channel is unclear. However, 
a recent structure of a SecA-SecY complex raises the possibility that the
polypeptide chain is moved by a two-helix finger domain of SecA that is inserted 
into the cytoplasmic opening of the SecY channel. Here we have used
disulphide-bridge crosslinking to show that the loop at the tip of the two-helix 
finger of Escherichia coli SecA interacts with a polypeptide chain right at the
entrance into the SecY pore. Mutagenesis demonstrates that a tyrosine in the loop
is particularly important for translocation, but can be replaced by some other
bulky, hydrophobic residues. We propose that the two-helix finger of SecA moves a
polypeptide chain into the SecY channel with the tyrosine providing the major
contact with the substrate, a mechanism analogous to that suggested for
hexameric, protein-translocating ATPases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07439 
PMCID: PMC4354775
PMID: 18923526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):975-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07397.

Activating mutations in ALK provide a therapeutic target in neuroblastoma.

George RE(1), Sanda T, Hanna M, Fröhling S, Luther W 2nd, Zhang J, Ahn Y, Zhou W,
London WB, McGrady P, Xue L, Zozulya S, Gregor VE, Webb TR, Gray NS, Gilliland
DG, Diller L, Greulich H, Morris SW, Meyerson M, Look AT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):883-4.

Neuroblastoma, an embryonal tumour of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system, 
accounts for approximately 15% of all deaths due to childhood cancer. High-risk
neuroblastomas are rapidly progressive; even with intensive myeloablative
chemotherapy, relapse is common and almost uniformly fatal. Here we report the
detection of previously unknown mutations in the ALK gene, which encodes a
receptor tyrosine kinase, in 8% of primary neuroblastomas. Five non-synonymous
sequence variations were identified in the kinase domain of ALK, of which three
were somatic and two were germ line. The most frequent mutation, F1174L, was also
identified in three different neuroblastoma cell lines. ALK complementary DNAs
encoding the F1174L and R1275Q variants, but not the wild-type ALK cDNA,
transformed interleukin-3-dependent murine haematopoietic Ba/F3 cells to
cytokine-independent growth. Ba/F3 cells expressing these mutations were
sensitive to the small-molecule inhibitor of ALK, TAE684 (ref. 4). Furthermore,
two human neuroblastoma cell lines harbouring the F1174L mutation were also
sensitive to the inhibitor. Cytotoxicity was associated with increased amounts of
apoptosis as measured by TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL). Short
hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated knockdown of ALK expression in neuroblastoma cell
lines with the F1174L mutation also resulted in apoptosis and impaired cell
proliferation. Thus, activating alleles of the ALK receptor tyrosine kinase are
present in primary neuroblastoma tumours and in established neuroblastoma cell
lines, and confer sensitivity to ALK inhibition with small molecules, providing a
molecular rationale for targeted therapy of this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07397 
PMCID: PMC2587486
PMID: 18923525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):971-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07399.

Oncogenic mutations of ALK kinase in neuroblastoma.

Chen Y(1), Takita J, Choi YL, Kato M, Ohira M, Sanada M, Wang L, Soda M, Kikuchi 
A, Igarashi T, Nakagawara A, Hayashi Y, Mano H, Ogawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):883-4.

Neuroblastoma in advanced stages is one of the most intractable paediatric
cancers, even with recent therapeutic advances. Neuroblastoma harbours a variety 
of genetic changes, including a high frequency of MYCN amplification, loss of
heterozygosity at 1p36 and 11q, and gain of genetic material from 17q, all of
which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neuroblastoma. However, the
scarcity of reliable molecular targets has hampered the development of effective 
therapeutic agents targeting neuroblastoma. Here we show that the anaplastic
lymphoma kinase (ALK), originally identified as a fusion kinase in a subtype of
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NPM-ALK) and more recently in adenocarcinoma of lung
(EML4-ALK), is also a frequent target of genetic alteration in advanced
neuroblastoma. According to our genome-wide scans of genetic lesions in 215
primary neuroblastoma samples using high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism
genotyping microarrays, the ALK locus, centromeric to the MYCN locus, was
identified as a recurrent target of copy number gain and gene amplification.
Furthermore, DNA sequencing of ALK revealed eight novel missense mutations in 13 
out of 215 (6.1%) fresh tumours and 8 out of 24 (33%) neuroblastoma-derived cell 
lines. All but one mutation in the primary samples (12 out of 13) were found in
stages 3-4 of the disease and were harboured in the kinase domain. The mutated
kinases were autophosphorylated and displayed increased kinase activity compared 
with the wild-type kinase. They were able to transform NIH3T3 fibroblasts as
shown by their colony formation ability in soft agar and their capacity to form
tumours in nude mice. Furthermore, we demonstrate that downregulation of ALK
through RNA interference suppresses proliferation of neuroblastoma cells
harbouring mutated ALK. We anticipate that our findings will provide new insights
into the pathogenesis of advanced neuroblastoma and that ALK-specific kinase
inhibitors might improve its clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07399 
PMID: 18923524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):967-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07398.

Somatic and germline activating mutations of the ALK kinase receptor in
neuroblastoma.

Janoueix-Lerosey I(1), Lequin D, Brugières L, Ribeiro A, de Pontual L, Combaret
V, Raynal V, Puisieux A, Schleiermacher G, Pierron G, Valteau-Couanet D, Frebourg
T, Michon J, Lyonnet S, Amiel J, Delattre O.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, Centre de Recherche, and Inserm, U830, 26 rue d'Ulm, Paris
F-75248, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):883-4.

Neuroblastoma, a tumour derived from the peripheral sympathetic nervous system,
is one of the most frequent solid tumours in childhood. It usually occurs
sporadically but familial cases are observed, with a subset of cases occurring in
association with congenital malformations of the neural crest being linked to
germline mutations of the PHOX2B gene. Here we conducted genome-wide comparative 
genomic hybridization analysis on a large series of neuroblastomas. Copy number
increase at the locus encoding the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) tyrosine
kinase receptor was observed recurrently. One particularly informative case
presented a high-level gene amplification that was strictly limited to ALK,
indicating that this gene may contribute on its own to neuroblastoma development.
Through subsequent direct sequencing of cell lines and primary tumour DNAs we
identified somatic mutations of the ALK kinase domain that mainly clustered in
two hotspots. Germline mutations were observed in two neuroblastoma families,
indicating that ALK is a neuroblastoma predisposition gene. Mutated ALK proteins 
were overexpressed, hyperphosphorylated and showed constitutive kinase activity. 
The knockdown of ALK expression in ALK-mutated cells, but also in cell lines
overexpressing a wild-type ALK, led to a marked decrease of cell proliferation.
Altogether, these data identify ALK as a critical player in neuroblastoma
development that may hence represent a very attractive therapeutic target in this
disease that is still frequently fatal with current treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07398 
PMID: 18923523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):964-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07184.

Pairs of cooperating cleaner fish provide better service quality than singletons.

Bshary R(1), Grutter AS, Willener AS, Leimar O.

Author information: 
(1)University of Neuchâtel, Department of Zoology, Rue Emile-Argand 11 Case
postale 158, 2009 Neuchâtel, Switzerland. redouan.bshary@unine.ch

Service providers may vary service quality depending on whether they work alone
or provide the service simultaneously with a partner. The latter case resembles a
prisoner's dilemma, in which one provider may try to reap the benefits of the
interaction without providing the service. Here we present a game-theory model
based on the marginal value theorem, which predicts that as long as the client
determines the duration, and the providers cooperate towards mutual gain, service
quality will increase in the pair situation. This prediction is consistent with
field observations and with an experiment on cleaning mutualism, in which stable 
male-female pairs of the cleaner wrasse Labroides dimidiatus repeatedly inspect
client fish jointly. Cleaners cooperate by eating ectoparasites off clients but
actually prefer to cheat and eat client mucus. Because clients often leave in
response to such cheating, the benefits of cheating can be gained by only one
cleaner during a pair inspection. In both data sets, the increased service
quality during pair inspection was mainly due to the smaller females behaving
significantly more cooperatively than their larger male partners. In contrast,
during solitary inspections, cleaning behaviour was very similar between the
sexes. Our study highlights the importance of incorporating interactions between 
service providers to make more quantitative predictions about cooperation between
species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07184 
PMID: 18923522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):936-43. doi: 10.1038/nature07335.

Structure of a complex of the ATPase SecA and the protein-translocation channel.

Zimmer J(1), Nam Y, Rapoport TA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard
Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):879-80.

Most proteins are secreted from bacteria by the interaction of the cytoplasmic
SecA ATPase with a membrane channel, formed by the heterotrimeric SecY complex.
Here we report the crystal structure of SecA bound to the SecY complex, with a
maximum resolution of 4.5 ångström (A), obtained for components from Thermotoga
maritima. One copy of SecA in an intermediate state of ATP hydrolysis is bound to
one molecule of the SecY complex. Both partners undergo important conformational 
changes on interaction. The polypeptide-cross-linking domain of SecA makes a
large conformational change that could capture the translocation substrate in a
'clamp'. Polypeptide movement through the SecY channel could be achieved by the
motion of a 'two-helix finger' of SecA inside the cytoplasmic funnel of SecY, and
by the coordinated tightening and widening of SecA's clamp above the SecY pore.
SecA binding generates a 'window' at the lateral gate of the SecY channel and it 
displaces the plug domain, preparing the channel for signal sequence binding and 
channel opening.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07335 
PMID: 18923516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):925-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07189.

The cranial endoskeleton of Tiktaalik roseae.

Downs JP(1), Daeschler EB, Jenkins FA Jr, Shubin NH.

Author information: 
(1)Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1900 Benjamin Franklin Parkway,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103, USA. downs@ansp.org

Among the morphological changes that occurred during the 'fish-to-tetrapod'
transition was a marked reorganization of the cranial endoskeleton. Details of
this transition, including the sequence of character acquisition, have not been
evident from the fossil record. Here we describe the braincase, palatoquadrate
and branchial skeleton of Tiktaalik roseae, the Late Devonian sarcopterygian fish
most closely related to tetrapods. Although retaining a primitive configuration
in many respects, the cranial endoskeleton of T. roseae shares derived features
with tetrapods such as a large basal articulation and a flat, horizontally
oriented entopterygoid. Other features in T. roseae, like the short, straight
hyomandibula, show morphology intermediate between the condition observed in more
primitive fish and that observed in tetrapods. The combination of characters in
T. roseae helps to resolve the relative timing of modifications in the cranial
endoskeleton. The sequence of modifications suggests changes in head mobility and
intracranial kinesis that have ramifications for the origin of vertebrate
terrestriality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07189 
PMID: 18923515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):919-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07458.

Copy-number variations associated with neuropsychiatric conditions.

Cook EH Jr(1), Scherer SW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Juvenile Research, Department of Psychiatry, University of
Illinois, 1747 West Roosevelt Road, Chicago, Illinois 60608, USA.

Neuropsychiatric conditions such as autism and schizophrenia have long been
attributed to genetic alterations, but identifying the genes responsible has
proved challenging. Microarray experiments have now revealed abundant copy-number
variation--a type of variation in which stretches of DNA are duplicated, deleted 
and sometimes rearranged--in the human population. Genes affected by copy-number 
variation are good candidates for research into disease susceptibility. The
complexity of neuropsychiatric genetics, however, dictates that assessment of the
biomedical relevance of copy-number variants and the genes that they affect needs
to be considered in an integrated context.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07458 
PMID: 18923514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):912-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07457.

Failure of neuronal homeostasis results in common neuropsychiatric phenotypes.

Ramocki MB(1), Zoghbi HY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Pediatric Neurology and Developmental
Neuroscience, Baylor College of Medicine, 1 Baylor Plaza, MS 225, BCMT-T807,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA. mramocki@bcm.tmc.edu

Failure of normal brain development leads to mental retardation or autism in
about 3% of children. Many genes integral to pathways by which synaptic
modification and the remodelling of neuronal networks mediate cognitive and
social development have been identified, usually through loss of function.
Evidence is accumulating, however, that either loss or gain of molecular
functions can be deleterious to the nervous system. Copy-number variation,
regulation of gene expression by non-coding RNAs and epigenetic changes are all
mechanisms by which altered gene dosage can cause the failure of neuronal
homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07457 
PMCID: PMC2696622
PMID: 18923513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):903-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07456.

Neuroligins and neurexins link synaptic function to cognitive disease.

Südhof TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology,
Stanford University, 1050 Arastradero Road B249, Palo Alto, California 94304,
USA. tcs1@stanford.edu

The brain processes information by transmitting signals at synapses, which
connect neurons into vast networks of communicating cells. In these networks,
synapses not only transmit signals but also transform and refine them. Neurexins 
and neuroligins are synaptic cell-adhesion molecules that connect presynaptic and
postsynaptic neurons at synapses, mediate signalling across the synapse, and
shape the properties of neural networks by specifying synaptic functions. In
humans, alterations in genes encoding neurexins or neuroligins have recently been
implicated in autism and other cognitive diseases, linking synaptic cell adhesion
to cognition and its disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07456 
PMCID: PMC2673233
PMID: 18923512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):894-902. doi: 10.1038/nature07455.

The molecular neurobiology of depression.

Krishnan V(1), Nestler EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Unravelling the pathophysiology of depression is a unique challenge. Not only are
depressive syndromes heterogeneous and their aetiologies diverse, but symptoms
such as guilt and suicidality are impossible to reproduce in animal models.
Nevertheless, other symptoms have been accurately modelled, and these, together
with clinical data, are providing insight into the neurobiology of depression.
Recent studies combining behavioural, molecular and electrophysiological
techniques reveal that certain aspects of depression result from maladaptive
stress-induced neuroplastic changes in specific neural circuits. They also show
that understanding the mechanisms of resilience to stress offers a crucial new
dimension for the development of fundamentally novel antidepressant treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07455 
PMCID: PMC2721780
PMID: 18923511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):890-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07454.

A glimmer of light for neuropsychiatric disorders.

Hyman SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Office of the Provost, Harvard University, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard
Medical School, Massachusetts Hall, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Understanding the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric disorders is a substantial
challenge for neurobiologists. It has long been hoped that identifying alleles
that confer increased risk of such disorders would provide clues for
neurobiological investigation. But this quest has been stymied by a lack of
validated biological markers for characterizing and distinguishing the different 
disorders and by the genetic complexity underpinning these diseases. Now, modern 
genomic technologies have begun to facilitate the discovery of relevant genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07454 
PMID: 18923510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):836. doi: 10.1038/455836a.

Meeting expectations.

[No authors listed]

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):876-7.

Scientists need to ask themselves if their meeting or conference is really
necessary.

DOI: 10.1038/455836a 
PMID: 18923462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):835-6. doi: 10.1038/455835b.

Cut-throat savings.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):166.
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):166.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):840-1.

In an attempt to boost its struggling economy, Italy's government is focusing on 
easy, but unwise, targets.

DOI: 10.1038/455835b 
PMID: 18923461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):835. doi: 10.1038/455835a.

More than one bad apple.

[No authors listed]

A congressional investigation alleges that some researchers have failed to report
all the drug-company money that they have received--and that universities may
have been too slow to police them.

DOI: 10.1038/455835a 
PMID: 18923460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):997-1000. doi: 10.1038/nature07325. Epub 2008 Sep
24.

Promoter-driven splicing regulation in fission yeast.

Moldón A(1), Malapeira J, Gabrielli N, Gogol M, Gómez-Escoda B, Ivanova T, Seidel
C, Ayté J.

Author information: 
(1)Oxidative Stress and Cell Cycle Group, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, C/Doctor
Aiguader 88, Barcelona 08003, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):885-6.

The meiotic cell cycle is modified from the mitotic cell cycle by having a
pre-meiotic S phase that leads to high levels of recombination, two rounds of
nuclear division with no intervening DNA synthesis and a reductional pattern of
chromosome segregation. Rem1 is a cyclin that is only expressed during meiosis in
the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Cells in which rem1 has been deleted
show decreased intragenic meiotic recombination and a delay at the onset of
meiosis I (ref. 1). When ectopically expressed in mitotically growing cells, Rem1
induces a G1 arrest followed by severe mitotic catastrophes. Here we show that
rem1 expression is regulated at the level of both transcription and splicing,
encoding two proteins with different functions depending on the intron retention.
We have determined that the regulation of rem1 splicing is not dependent on any
transcribed region of the gene. Furthermore, when the rem1 promoter is fused to
other intron-containing genes, the chimaeras show a meiotic-specific regulation
of splicing, exactly the same as endogenous rem1. This regulation is dependent on
two transcription factors of the forkhead family, Mei4 (ref. 2) and Fkh2 (ref.
3). Whereas Mei4 induces both transcription and splicing of rem1, Fkh2 is
responsible for the intron retention of the transcript during vegetative growth
and the pre-meiotic S phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07325 
PMID: 18815595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):992-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07311. Epub 2008 Sep 14.

The type IV mucolipidosis-associated protein TRPML1 is an endolysosomal iron
release channel.

Dong XP(1), Cheng X, Mills E, Delling M, Wang F, Kurz T, Xu H.

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, The
University of Michigan, 3089 Natural Science Building (Kraus), 830 North
University, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

TRPML1 (mucolipin 1, also known as MCOLN1) is predicted to be an intracellular
late endosomal and lysosomal ion channel protein that belongs to the mucolipin
subfamily of transient receptor potential (TRP) proteins. Mutations in the human 
TRPML1 gene cause mucolipidosis type IV disease (ML4). ML4 patients have motor
impairment, mental retardation, retinal degeneration and iron-deficiency anaemia.
Because aberrant iron metabolism may cause neural and retinal degeneration, it
may be a primary cause of ML4 phenotypes. In most mammalian cells, release of
iron from endosomes and lysosomes after iron uptake by endocytosis of
Fe(3+)-bound transferrin receptors, or after lysosomal degradation of
ferritin-iron complexes and autophagic ingestion of iron-containing
macromolecules, is the chief source of cellular iron. The divalent metal
transporter protein DMT1 (also known as SLC11A2) is the only endosomal Fe(2+)
transporter known at present and it is highly expressed in erythroid precursors. 
Genetic studies, however, suggest the existence of a DMT1-independent endosomal
and lysosomal Fe(2+) transport protein. By measuring radiolabelled iron uptake,
by monitoring the levels of cytosolic and intralysosomal iron and by directly
patch-clamping the late endosomal and lysosomal membrane, here we show that
TRPML1 functions as a Fe(2+) permeable channel in late endosomes and lysosomes.
ML4 mutations are shown to impair the ability of TRPML1 to permeate Fe(2+) at
varying degrees, which correlate well with the disease severity. A comparison of 
TRPML1(-/- )ML4 and control human skin fibroblasts showed a reduction in
cytosolic Fe(2+) levels, an increase in intralysosomal Fe(2+) levels and an
accumulation of lipofuscin-like molecules in TRPML1(-/-) cells. We propose that
TRPML1 mediates a mechanism by which Fe(2+) is released from late endosomes and
lysosomes. Our results indicate that impaired iron transport may contribute to
both haematological and degenerative symptoms of ML4 patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07311 
PMCID: PMC4301259
PMID: 18794901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):979-83. doi: 10.1038/nature07358. Epub 2008 Sep 14.

The mode of Hedgehog binding to Ihog homologues is not conserved across different
phyla.

McLellan JS(1), Zheng X, Hauk G, Ghirlando R, Beachy PA, Leahy DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biophysical Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Hedgehog (Hh) proteins specify tissue pattern in metazoan embryos by forming
gradients that emanate from discrete sites of expression and elicit
concentration-dependent cellular differentiation or proliferation responses.
Cellular responses to Hh and the movement of Hh through tissues are both
precisely regulated, and abnormal Hh signalling has been implicated in human
birth defects and cancer. Hh signalling is mediated by its amino-terminal domain 
(HhN), which is dually lipidated and secreted as part of a multivalent
lipoprotein particle. Reception of the HhN signal is modulated by several
cell-surface proteins on responding cells, including Patched (Ptc), Smoothened
(Smo), Ihog (known as CDO or CDON in mammals) and the vertebrate-specific
proteins Hip (also known as Hhip) and Gas1 (ref. 11). Drosophila Ihog and its
vertebrate homologues CDO and BOC contain multiple immunoglobulin and fibronectin
type III (FNIII) repeats, and the first FNIII repeat of Ihog binds Drosophila HhN
in a heparin-dependent manner. Surprisingly, pull-down experiments suggest that a
mammalian Sonic hedgehog N-terminal domain (ShhN) binds a non-orthologous FNIII
repeat of CDO. Here we report biochemical, biophysical and X-ray structural
studies of a complex between ShhN and the third FNIII repeat of CDO. We show that
the ShhN-CDO interaction is completely unlike the HhN-Ihog interaction and
requires calcium, which binds at a previously undetected site on ShhN. This site 
is conserved in nearly all Hh proteins and is a hotspot for mediating
interactions between ShhN and CDO, Ptc, Hip and Gas1. Mutations in vertebrate Hh 
proteins causing holoprosencephaly and brachydactyly type A1 map to this
calcium-binding site and disrupt interactions with these partners.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07358 
PMCID: PMC2679680
PMID: 18794898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):930-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07261. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

Identification of ALK as a major familial neuroblastoma predisposition gene.

Mossé YP(1), Laudenslager M, Longo L, Cole KA, Wood A, Attiyeh EF, Laquaglia MJ, 
Sennett R, Lynch JE, Perri P, Laureys G, Speleman F, Kim C, Hou C, Hakonarson H, 
Torkamani A, Schork NJ, Brodeur GM, Tonini GP, Rappaport E, Devoto M, Maris JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology and Center for Childhood Cancer Research, Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 16;455(7215):883-4.

Neuroblastoma is a childhood cancer that can be inherited, but the genetic
aetiology is largely unknown. Here we show that germline mutations in the
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene explain most hereditary neuroblastomas, and
that activating mutations can also be somatically acquired. We first identified a
significant linkage signal at chromosome bands 2p23-24 using a whole-genome scan 
in neuroblastoma pedigrees. Resequencing of regional candidate genes identified
three separate germline missense mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain of ALK
that segregated with the disease in eight separate families. Resequencing in 194 
high-risk neuroblastoma samples showed somatically acquired mutations in the
tyrosine kinase domain in 12.4% of samples. Nine of the ten mutations map to
critical regions of the kinase domain and were predicted, with high probability, 
to be oncogenic drivers. Mutations resulted in constitutive phosphorylation, and 
targeted knockdown of ALK messenger RNA resulted in profound inhibition of growth
in all cell lines harbouring mutant or amplified ALK, as well as in two out of
six wild-type cell lines for ALK. Our results demonstrate that heritable
mutations of ALK are the main cause of familial neuroblastoma, and that germline 
or acquired activation of this cell-surface kinase is a tractable therapeutic
target for this lethal paediatric malignancy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07261 
PMCID: PMC2672043
PMID: 18724359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):799-803. doi: 10.1038/nature07306.

The genome of the simian and human malaria parasite Plasmodium knowlesi.

Pain A(1), Böhme U, Berry AE, Mungall K, Finn RD, Jackson AP, Mourier T, Mistry
J, Pasini EM, Aslett MA, Balasubrammaniam S, Borgwardt K, Brooks K, Carret C,
Carver TJ, Cherevach I, Chillingworth T, Clark TG, Galinski MR, Hall N, Harper D,
Harris D, Hauser H, Ivens A, Janssen CS, Keane T, Larke N, Lapp S, Marti M, Moule
S, Meyer IM, Ormond D, Peters N, Sanders M, Sanders S, Sargeant TJ, Simmonds M,
Smith F, Squares R, Thurston S, Tivey AR, Walker D, White B, Zuiderwijk E,
Churcher C, Quail MA, Cowman AF, Turner CM, Rajandream MA, Kocken CH, Thomas AW, 
Newbold CI, Barrell BG, Berriman M.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire CB10
1SA, UK. ap2@sanger.ac.uk

Plasmodium knowlesi is an intracellular malaria parasite whose natural vertebrate
host is Macaca fascicularis (the 'kra' monkey); however, it is now increasingly
recognized as a significant cause of human malaria, particularly in southeast
Asia. Plasmodium knowlesi was the first malaria parasite species in which
antigenic variation was demonstrated, and it has a close phylogenetic
relationship to Plasmodium vivax, the second most important species of human
malaria parasite (reviewed in ref. 4). Despite their relatedness, there are
important phenotypic differences between them, such as host blood cell
preference, absence of a dormant liver stage or 'hypnozoite' in P. knowlesi, and 
length of the asexual cycle (reviewed in ref. 4). Here we present an analysis of 
the P. knowlesi (H strain, Pk1(A+) clone) nuclear genome sequence. This is the
first monkey malaria parasite genome to be described, and it provides an
opportunity for comparison with the recently completed P. vivax genome and other 
sequenced Plasmodium genomes. In contrast to other Plasmodium genomes, putative
variant antigen families are dispersed throughout the genome and are associated
with intrachromosomal telomere repeats. One of these families, the KIRs, contains
sequences that collectively match over one-half of the host CD99 extracellular
domain, which may represent an unusual form of molecular mimicry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07306 
PMCID: PMC2656934
PMID: 18843368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):790-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07333.

Central role of detachment faults in accretion of slow-spreading oceanic
lithosphere.

Escartín J(1), Smith DK, Cann J, Schouten H, Langmuir CH, Escrig S.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Geosciences Group, CNRS Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, 4 Place
Jussieu, 75252 Paris Cedex 05, France. escartin@ipgp.jussieu.fr

The formation of oceanic detachment faults is well established from inactive,
corrugated fault planes exposed on sea floor formed along ridges spreading at
less than 80 km Myr(-1) (refs 1-4). These faults can accommodate extension for up
to 1-3 Myr (ref. 5), and are associated with one of the two contrasting modes of 
accretion operating along the northern Mid-Atlantic Ridge. The first mode is
asymmetrical accretion involving an active detachment fault along one ridge
flank. The second mode is the well-known symmetrical accretion, dominated by
magmatic processes with subsidiary high-angle faulting and the formation of
abyssal hills on both flanks. Here we present an examination of approximately
2,500 km of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge between 12.5 and 35 degrees N, which reveals
asymmetrical accretion along almost half of the ridge. Hydrothermal activity
identified so far in the study region is closely associated with asymmetrical
accretion, which also shows high levels of near-continuous hydroacoustically and 
teleseismically recorded seismicity. Increased seismicity is probably generated
along detachment faults that accommodate a sizeable proportion of the total plate
separation. In contrast, symmetrical segments have lower levels of seismicity,
which occurs primarily at segment ends. Basalts erupted along asymmetrical
segments have compositions that are consistent with crystallization at higher
pressures than basalts from symmetrical segments, and with lower extents of
partial melting of the mantle. Both seismic evidence and geochemical evidence
indicate that the axial lithosphere is thicker and colder at asymmetrical
sections of the ridge, either because associated hydrothermal circulation
efficiently penetrates to greater depths or because the rising mantle is cooler. 
We suggest that much of the variability in sea-floor morphology, seismicity and
basalt chemistry found along slow-spreading ridges can be thus attributed to the 
frequent involvement of detachment faults in oceanic lithospheric accretion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07333 
PMID: 18843367 


248. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):786-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07322.

Tibetan plateau river incision inhibited by glacial stabilization of the Tsangpo 
gorge.

Korup O(1), Montgomery DR.

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Federal Research Institutes WSL/SLF, Flüelastr. 11, CH-7260 Davos,
Switzerland. korup@slf.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):748-9.

A considerable amount of research has focused on how and when the Tibetan plateau
formed in the wake of tectonic convergence between India and Asia. Although far
less enquiry has addressed the controls on river incision into the plateau
itself, widely accepted theory predicts that steep fluvial knick points (river
reaches with very steep gradients) in the eastern Himalayan syntaxis at the
southeastern plateau margin should erode rapidly, driving a wave of incision back
into the plateau. Preservation of the plateau edge thus presents something of a
conundrum that may be resolved by invoking either differential rock uplift
matching erosional decay, or other mechanisms for retarding bedrock river
incision in this region where high stream power excludes the potential for
aridity as a simple limit to dissection of the plateau. Here we report
morphologic evidence showing that Quaternary depression of the regional
equilibrium line altitude, where long-term glacier mass gain equals mass loss,
was sufficient to repeatedly form moraine dams on major rivers: such damming
substantially impeded river incision into the southeastern edge of the Tibetan
plateau through the coupled effects of upstream impoundment and interglacial
aggradation. Such glacial stabilization of the resulting highly focused river
incision centred on the Tsangpo gorge could further contribute to initiating and 
accentuating a locus of rapid exhumation, known as tectonic anaeurysm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07322 
PMID: 18843366 


249. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):782-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07293.

High-temperature interface superconductivity between metallic and insulating
copper oxides.

Gozar A(1), Logvenov G, Kourkoutis LF, Bollinger AT, Giannuzzi LA, Muller DA,
Bozovic I.

Author information: 
(1)Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973-5000, USA.

The realization of high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) superconductivity
confined to nanometre-sized interfaces has been a long-standing goal because of
potential applications and the opportunity to study quantum phenomena in reduced 
dimensions. This has been, however, a challenging target: in conventional metals,
the high electron density restricts interface effects (such as carrier depletion 
or accumulation) to a region much narrower than the coherence length, which is
the scale necessary for superconductivity to occur. By contrast, in copper oxides
the carrier density is low whereas T(c) is high and the coherence length very
short, which provides an opportunity-but at a price: the interface must be
atomically perfect. Here we report superconductivity in bilayers consisting of an
insulator (La(2)CuO(4)) and a metal (La(1.55)Sr(0.45)CuO(4)), neither of which is
superconducting in isolation. In these bilayers, T(c) is either approximately 15 
K or approximately 30 K, depending on the layering sequence. This highly robust
phenomenon is confined within 2-3 nm of the interface. If such a bilayer is
exposed to ozone, T(c) exceeds 50 K, and this enhanced superconductivity is also 
shown to originate from an interface layer about 1-2 unit cells thick.
Enhancement of T(c) in bilayer systems was observed previously but the essential 
role of the interface was not recognized at the time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07293 
PMID: 18843365 


250. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):778-81. doi: 10.1038/nature07321.

Observation of the spin Seebeck effect.

Uchida K(1), Takahashi S, Harii K, Ieda J, Koshibae W, Ando K, Maekawa S, Saitoh 
E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics and Physico-Informatics, Keio University,
Yokohama 223-8522, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):741-3.

The generation of electric voltage by placing a conductor in a temperature
gradient is called the Seebeck effect. Its efficiency is represented by the
Seebeck coefficient, S, which is defined as the ratio of the generated electric
voltage to the temperature difference, and is determined by the scattering rate
and the density of the conduction electrons. The effect can be exploited, for
example, in thermal electric-power generators and for temperature sensing, by
connecting two conductors with different Seebeck coefficients, a device called a 
thermocouple. Here we report the observation of the thermal generation of driving
power, or voltage, for electron spin: the spin Seebeck effect. Using a recently
developed spin-detection technique that involves the spin Hall effect, we measure
the spin voltage generated from a temperature gradient in a metallic magnet. This
thermally induced spin voltage persists even at distances far from the sample
ends, and spins can be extracted from every position on the magnet simply by
attaching a metal. The spin Seebeck effect observed here is directly applicable
to the production of spin-voltage generators, which are crucial for driving
spintronic devices. The spin Seebeck effect allows us to pass a pure spin
current, a flow of electron spins without electric currents, over a long
distance. These innovative capabilities will invigorate spintronics research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07321 
PMID: 18843364 


251. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):775-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07294.

The formation and assembly of a typical star-forming galaxy at redshift z
approximately 3.

Stark DP(1), Swinbank AM, Ellis RS, Dye S, Smail IR, Richard J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. dps@astro.caltech.edu

Recent studies of galaxies approximately 2-3 Gyr after the Big Bang have revealed
large, rotating disks, similar to those of galaxies today. The existence of
well-ordered rotation in galaxies during this peak epoch of cosmic star formation
indicates that gas accretion is likely to be the dominant mode by which galaxies 
grow, because major mergers of galaxies would completely disrupt the observed
velocity fields. But poor spatial resolution and sensitivity have hampered this
interpretation; such studies have been limited to the largest and most luminous
galaxies, which may have fundamentally different modes of assembly from those of 
more typical galaxies (which are thought to grow into the spheroidal components
at the centres of galaxies similar to the Milky Way). Here we report observations
of a typical star-forming galaxy at z = 3.07, with a linear resolution of
approximately 100 parsecs. We find a well-ordered compact source in which
molecular gas is being converted efficiently into stars, likely to be assembling 
a spheroidal bulge similar to those seen in spiral galaxies at the present day.
The presence of undisrupted rotation may indicate that galaxies such as the Milky
Way gain much of their mass by accretion rather than major mergers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07294 
PMID: 18843363 


252. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):764-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07345.

SAP-controlled T-B cell interactions underlie germinal centre formation.

Qi H(1), Cannons JL, Klauschen F, Schwartzberg PL, Germain RN.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Biology Section, Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):745-7.

Generation of long-term antibody-mediated immunity depends on the germinal centre
reaction, which requires cooperation between antigen-specific T and B
lymphocytes. In human X-linked lymphoproliferative disease and its gene-targeted 
mouse model, loss-of-function mutations in signalling lymphocyte activation
molecule-associated protein (SAP, encoded by SH2D1a) cause a profound defect in
germinal centre formation by an as yet unknown mechanism. Here, using two-photon 
intravital imaging, we show that SAP deficiency selectively impairs the ability
of CD4(+) T cells to stably interact with cognate B cells but not
antigen-presenting dendritic cells. This selective defect results in a failure of
antigen-specific B cells to receive adequate levels of contact-dependent T-cell
help to expand normally, despite Sap(-/-) T cells exhibiting the known
characteristics of otherwise competent helper T cells. Furthermore, the lack of
stable interactions with B cells renders Sap(-/-) T cells unable to be
efficiently recruited to and retained in a nascent germinal centre to sustain the
germinal centre reaction. These results offer an explanation for the germinal
centre defect due to SAP deficiency and provide new insights into the
bi-directional communication between cognate T and B cells in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07345 
PMCID: PMC2652134
PMID: 18843362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):757-63. doi: 10.1038/nature07327.

Comparative genomics of the neglected human malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax.

Carlton JM(1), Adams JH, Silva JC, Bidwell SL, Lorenzi H, Caler E, Crabtree J,
Angiuoli SV, Merino EF, Amedeo P, Cheng Q, Coulson RM, Crabb BS, Del Portillo HA,
Essien K, Feldblyum TV, Fernandez-Becerra C, Gilson PR, Gueye AH, Guo X, Kang'a
S, Kooij TW, Korsinczky M, Meyer EV, Nene V, Paulsen I, White O, Ralph SA, Ren Q,
Sargeant TJ, Salzberg SL, Stoeckert CJ, Sullivan SA, Yamamoto MM, Hoffman SL,
Wortman JR, Gardner MJ, Galinski MR, Barnwell JW, Fraser-Liggett CM.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute for Genomic Research/J. Craig Venter Institute, 9704 Medical
Research Drive, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA. jane.carlton@nyumc.org

The human malaria parasite Plasmodium vivax is responsible for 25-40% of the
approximately 515 million annual cases of malaria worldwide. Although seldom
fatal, the parasite elicits severe and incapacitating clinical symptoms and often
causes relapses months after a primary infection has cleared. Despite its
importance as a major human pathogen, P. vivax is little studied because it
cannot be propagated continuously in the laboratory except in non-human primates.
We sequenced the genome of P. vivax to shed light on its distinctive biological
features, and as a means to drive development of new drugs and vaccines. Here we 
describe the synteny and isochore structure of P. vivax chromosomes, and show
that the parasite resembles other malaria parasites in gene content and metabolic
potential, but possesses novel gene families and potential alternative invasion
pathways not recognized previously. Completion of the P. vivax genome provides
the scientific community with a valuable resource that can be used to advance
investigation into this neglected species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07327 
PMCID: PMC2651158
PMID: 18843361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):751-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07361.

Malaria research in the post-genomic era.

Winzeler EA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego, California 
and The Department of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. winzeler@scripps.edu

For many pathogens the availability of genome sequence, permitting
genome-dependent methods of research, can partially substitute for powerful
forward genetic methods (genome-independent) that have advanced model organism
research for decades. In 2002 the genome sequence of Plasmodium falciparum, the
parasite causing the most severe type of human malaria, was completed,
eliminating many of the barriers to performing state-of-the-art molecular
biological research on malaria parasites. Although new, licensed therapies may
not yet have resulted from genome-dependent experiments, they have produced a
wealth of new observations about the basic biology of malaria parasites, and it
is likely that these will eventually lead to new therapeutic approaches. This
review will focus on the basic research discoveries that have depended, in part, 
on the availability of the Plasmodium genome sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07361 
PMCID: PMC2705782
PMID: 18843360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):770-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07312. Epub 2008 Sep 21.

Sae2, Exo1 and Sgs1 collaborate in DNA double-strand break processing.

Mimitou EP(1), Symington LS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Columbia University Medical Center, 701 West 168th
Street, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):740-1.

DNA ends exposed after introduction of double-strand breaks (DSBs) undergo 5'-3' 
nucleolytic degradation to generate single-stranded DNA, the substrate for
binding by the Rad51 protein to initiate homologous recombination. This process
is poorly understood in eukaryotes, but several factors have been implicated,
including the Mre11 complex (Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2/NBS1), Sae2/CtIP/Ctp1 and Exo1.
Here we demonstrate that yeast Exo1 nuclease and Sgs1 helicase function in
alternative pathways for DSB processing. Novel, partially resected intermediates 
accumulate in a double mutant lacking Exo1 and Sgs1, which are poor substrates
for homologous recombination. The early processing step that generates partly
resected intermediates is dependent on Sae2. When Sae2 is absent, in addition to 
Exo1 and Sgs1, unprocessed DSBs accumulate and homology-dependent repair fails.
These results suggest a two-step mechanism for DSB processing during homologous
recombination. First, the Mre11 complex and Sae2 remove a small
oligonucleotide(s) from the DNA ends to form an early intermediate. Second, Exo1 
and/or Sgs1 rapidly process this intermediate to generate extensive tracts of
single-stranded DNA that serve as substrate for Rad51.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07312 
PMCID: PMC3818707
PMID: 18806779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):795-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07304. Epub 2008 Sep 14.

Dual epithelial origin of vertebrate oral teeth.

Soukup V(1), Epperlein HH, Horácek I, Cerny R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Charles University in Prague, Vinicna 7, 128 44 Prague,
Czech Republic.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):747-8.

The oral cavity of vertebrates is generally thought to arise as an ectodermal
invagination. Consistent with this, oral teeth are proposed to arise exclusively 
from ectoderm, contributing to tooth enamel epithelium, and from neural crest
derived mesenchyme, contributing to dentin and pulp. Yet in many vertebrate
groups, teeth are not restricted only to the oral cavity, but extend posteriorly 
as pharyngeal teeth that could be derived either directly from the endodermal
epithelium, or from the ectodermal epithelium that reached this location through 
the mouth or through the pharyngeal slits. However, when the oropharyngeal
membrane, which forms a sharp ecto/endodermal border, is broken, the fate of
these cells is poorly known. Here, using transgenic axolotls with a combination
of fate-mapping approaches, we present reliable evidence of oral teeth derived
from both the ectoderm and endoderm and, moreover, demonstrate teeth with a mixed
ecto/endodermal origin. Despite the enamel epithelia having a different embryonic
source, oral teeth in the axolotl display striking developmental uniformities and
are otherwise identical. This suggests a dominant role for the neural crest
mesenchyme over epithelia in tooth initiation and, from an evolutionary point of 
view, that an essential factor in teeth evolution was the odontogenic capacity of
neural crest cells, regardless of possible 'outside-in' or 'inside-out' influx of
the epithelium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07304 
PMID: 18794902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):818-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07249. Epub 2008 Sep 3.

Recognition of hemi-methylated DNA by the SRA protein UHRF1 by a base-flipping
mechanism.

Arita K(1), Ariyoshi M, Tochio H, Nakamura Y, Shirakawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University, Kyoto 615-8510, Japan.

DNA methylation of CpG dinucleotides is an important epigenetic modification of
mammalian genomes and is essential for the regulation of chromatin structure, of 
gene expression and of genome stability. Differences in DNA methylation patterns 
underlie a wide range of biological processes, such as genomic imprinting,
inactivation of the X chromosome, embryogenesis, and carcinogenesis. Inheritance 
of the epigenetic methylation pattern is mediated by the enzyme DNA
methyltransferase 1 (Dnmt1), which methylates newly synthesized CpG sequences
during DNA replication, depending on the methylation status of the template
strands. The protein UHRF1 (also known as Np95 and ICBP90) recognizes
hemi-methylation sites via a SET and RING-associated (SRA) domain and directs
Dnmt1 to these sites. Here we report the crystal structures of the SRA domain in 
free and hemi-methylated DNA-bound states. The SRA domain folds into a globular
structure with a basic concave surface formed by highly conserved residues.
Binding of DNA to the concave surface causes a loop and an amino-terminal tail of
the SRA domain to fold into DNA interfaces at the major and minor grooves of the 
methylation site. In contrast to fully methylated CpG sites recognized by the
methyl-CpG-binding domain, the methylcytosine base at the hemi-methylated site is
flipped out of the DNA helix in the SRA-DNA complex and fits tightly into a
protein pocket on the concave surface. The complex structure suggests that the
successive flip out of the pre-existing methylated cytosine and the target
cytosine to be methylated is associated with the coordinated transfer of the
hemi-methylated CpG site from UHRF1 to Dnmt1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07249 
PMID: 18772891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):822-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07273. Epub 2008 Sep 3.

Structural basis for recognition of hemi-methylated DNA by the SRA domain of
human UHRF1.

Avvakumov GV(1), Walker JR, Xue S, Li Y, Duan S, Bronner C, Arrowsmith CH,
Dhe-Paganon S.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Toronto, 100 College Street,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L5, Canada.

Epigenetic inheritance in mammals is characterized by high-fidelity replication
of CpG methylation patterns during development. UHRF1 (also known as ICBP90 in
humans and Np95 in mouse) is an E3 ligase important for the maintenance of global
and local DNA methylation in vivo. The preferential affinity of UHRF1 for
hemi-methylated DNA over symmetrically methylated DNA by means of its SET and
RING-associated (SRA) domain and its association with the maintenance DNA
methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) suggests a role in replication of the epigenetic
code. Here we report the 1.7 A crystal structure of the apo SRA domain of human
UHRF1 and a 2.2 A structure of its complex with hemi-methylated DNA, revealing a 
previously unknown reading mechanism for methylated CpG sites (mCpG). The SRA-DNA
complex has several notable structural features including a binding pocket that
accommodates the 5-methylcytosine that is flipped out of the duplex DNA. Two
specialized loops reach through the resulting gap in the DNA from both the major 
and the minor grooves to read the other three bases of the CpG duplex. The major 
groove loop confers both specificity for the CpG dinucleotide and discrimination 
against methylation of deoxycytidine of the complementary strand. The structure, 
along with mutagenesis data, suggests how UHRF1 acts as a key factor for DNMT1
maintenance methylation through recognition of a fundamental unit of epigenetic
inheritance, mCpG.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07273 
PMID: 18772889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):826-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07280. Epub 2008 Sep 3.

The SRA domain of UHRF1 flips 5-methylcytosine out of the DNA helix.

Hashimoto H(1), Horton JR, Zhang X, Bostick M, Jacobsen SE, Cheng X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Emory University School of Medicine, 1510 Clifton 
Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.

Maintenance methylation of hemimethylated CpG dinucleotides at DNA replication
forks is the key to faithful mitotic inheritance of genomic methylation patterns.
UHRF1 (ubiquitin-like, containing PHD and RING finger domains 1) is required for 
maintenance methylation by interacting with DNA nucleotide methyltransferase 1
(DNMT1), the maintenance methyltransferase, and with hemimethylated CpG, the
substrate for DNMT1 (refs 1 and 2). Here we present the crystal structure of the 
SET and RING-associated (SRA) domain of mouse UHRF1 in complex with DNA
containing a hemimethylated CpG site. The DNA is contacted in both the major and 
minor grooves by two loops that penetrate into the middle of the DNA helix. The
5-methylcytosine has flipped completely out of the DNA helix and is positioned in
a binding pocket with planar stacking contacts, Watson-Crick polar hydrogen bonds
and van der Waals interactions specific for 5-methylcytosine. Hence, UHRF1
contains a previously unknown DNA-binding module and is the first example of a
non-enzymatic, sequence-specific DNA-binding protein domain to use the base
flipping mechanism to interact with DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07280 
PMCID: PMC2602803
PMID: 18772888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):804-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07250. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

Vancomycin-resistant enterococci exploit antibiotic-induced innate immune
deficits.

Brandl K(1), Plitas G, Mihu CN, Ubeda C, Jia T, Fleisher M, Schnabl B, DeMatteo
RP, Pamer EG.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases Service, Department of Medicine, Immunology Program,
Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York, USA.

Infection with antibiotic-resistant bacteria, such as vancomycin-resistant
Enterococcus (VRE), is a dangerous and costly complication of broad-spectrum
antibiotic therapy. How antibiotic-mediated elimination of commensal bacteria
promotes infection by antibiotic-resistant bacteria is a fertile area for
speculation with few defined mechanisms. Here we demonstrate that antibiotic
treatment of mice notably downregulates intestinal expression of RegIIIgamma
(also known as Reg3g), a secreted C-type lectin that kills Gram-positive
bacteria, including VRE. Downregulation of RegIIIgamma markedly decreases in vivo
killing of VRE in the intestine of antibiotic-treated mice. Stimulation of
intestinal Toll-like receptor 4 by oral administration of lipopolysaccharide
re-induces RegIIIgamma, thereby boosting innate immune resistance of
antibiotic-treated mice against VRE. Compromised mucosal innate immune defence,
as induced by broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy, can be corrected by selectively 
stimulating mucosal epithelial Toll-like receptors, providing a potential
therapeutic approach to reduce colonization and infection by antibiotic-resistant
microbes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07250 
PMCID: PMC2663337
PMID: 18724361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):813-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07290. Epub 2008 Aug 20.

The deubiquitinylation and localization of PTEN are regulated by a HAUSP-PML
network.

Song MS(1), Salmena L, Carracedo A, Egia A, Lo-Coco F, Teruya-Feldstein J,
Pandolfi PP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genetics Program, Beth Israel Deaconess Cancer Center and Department of
Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Nuclear exclusion of the PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted in
chromosome 10) tumour suppressor has been associated with cancer progression.
However, the mechanisms leading to this aberrant PTEN localization in human
cancers are currently unknown. We have previously reported that ubiquitinylation 
of PTEN at specific lysine residues regulates its nuclear-cytoplasmic
partitioning. Here we show that functional promyelocytic leukaemia protein (PML) 
nuclear bodies co-ordinate PTEN localization by opposing the action of a
previously unknown PTEN-deubiquitinylating enzyme, herpesvirus-associated
ubiquitin-specific protease (HAUSP, also known as USP7), and that the integrity
of this molecular framework is required for PTEN to be able to enter the nucleus.
We find that PTEN is aberrantly localized in acute promyelocytic leukaemia, in
which PML function is disrupted by the PML-RARalpha fusion oncoprotein.
Remarkably, treatment with drugs that trigger PML-RARalpha degradation, such as
all-trans retinoic acid or arsenic trioxide, restore nuclear PTEN. We demonstrate
that PML opposes the activity of HAUSP towards PTEN through a mechanism involving
the adaptor protein DAXX (death domain-associated protein). In support of this
paradigm, we show that HAUSP is overexpressed in human prostate cancer and is
associated with PTEN nuclear exclusion. Thus, our results delineate a previously 
unknown PML-DAXX-HAUSP molecular network controlling PTEN deubiquitinylation and 
trafficking, which is perturbed by oncogenic cues in human cancer, in turn
defining a new deubiquitinylation-dependent model for PTEN subcellular
compartmentalization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07290 
PMCID: PMC3398484
PMID: 18716620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):808-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07240. Epub 2008 Aug 20.

ATP drives lamina propria T(H)17 cell differentiation.

Atarashi K(1), Nishimura J, Shima T, Umesaki Y, Yamamoto M, Onoue M, Yagita H,
Ishii N, Evans R, Honda K, Takeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immune Regulation, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka
University, 2-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2009 Mar;136(3):1107-9.

Interleukin (IL)-17-producing CD4(+) T lymphocytes (T(H)17 cells) constitute a
subset of T-helper cells involved in host defence and several immune disorders.
An intriguing feature of T(H)17 cells is their selective and constitutive
presence in the intestinal lamina propria. Here we show that adenosine
5'-triphosphate (ATP) that can be derived from commensal bacteria activates a
unique subset of lamina propria cells, CD70(high)CD11c(low) cells, leading to the
differentiation of T(H)17 cells. Germ-free mice exhibit much lower concentrations
of luminal ATP, accompanied by fewer lamina propria T(H)17 cells, compared to
specific-pathogen-free mice. Systemic or rectal administration of ATP into these 
germ-free mice results in a marked increase in the number of lamina propria
T(H)17 cells. A CD70(high)CD11c(low) subset of the lamina propria cells expresses
T(H)17-prone molecules, such as IL-6, IL-23p19 and
transforming-growth-factor-beta-activating integrin-alphaV and -beta8, in
response to ATP stimulation, and preferentially induces T(H)17 differentiation of
co-cultured naive CD4(+) T cells. The critical role of ATP is further underscored
by the observation that administration of ATP exacerbates a T-cell-mediated
colitis model with enhanced T(H)17 differentiation. These observations highlight 
the importance of commensal bacteria and ATP for T(H)17 differentiation in health
and disease, and offer an explanation of why T(H)17 cells specifically present in
the intestinal lamina propria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07240 
PMID: 18716618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):693-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07342.

Visualizing transient events in amino-terminal autoprocessing of HIV-1 protease.

Tang C(1), Louis JM, Aniana A, Suh JY, Clore GM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Physics, Building 5, National Institute of Diabetes and
Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 
20892-0520, USA.

HIV-1 protease processes the Gag and Gag-Pol polyproteins into mature structural 
and functional proteins, including itself, and is therefore indispensable for
viral maturation. The mature protease is active only as a dimer with each subunit
contributing catalytic residues. The full-length transframe region protease
precursor appears to be monomeric yet undergoes maturation via intramolecular
cleavage of a putative precursor dimer, concomitant with the appearance of
mature-like catalytic activity. How such intramolecular cleavage can occur when
the amino and carboxy termini of the mature protease are part of an intersubunit 
beta-sheet located distal from the active site is unclear. Here we visualize the 
early events in N-terminal autoprocessing using an inactive mini-precursor with a
four-residue N-terminal extension that mimics the transframe region protease
precursor. Using paramagnetic relaxation enhancement, a technique that is
exquisitely sensitive to the presence of minor species, we show that the
mini-precursor forms highly transient, lowly populated (3-5%) dimeric encounter
complexes that involve the mature dimer interface but occupy a wide range of
subunit orientations relative to the mature dimer. Furthermore, the occupancy of 
the mature dimer configuration constitutes a very small fraction of the
self-associated species (accounting for the very low enzymatic activity of the
protease precursor), and the N-terminal extension makes transient intra- and
intersubunit contacts with the substrate binding site and is therefore available 
for autocleavage when the correct dimer orientation is sampled within the
encounter complex ensemble.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07342 
PMCID: PMC2798589
PMID: 18833280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):661-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07390.

Direct evidence of extensive diversity of HIV-1 in Kinshasa by 1960.

Worobey M(1), Gemmel M, Teuwen DE, Haselkorn T, Kunstman K, Bunce M, Muyembe JJ, 
Kabongo JM, Kalengayi RM, Van Marck E, Gilbert MT, Wolinsky SM.

Author information: 
(1)Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona
85721, USA. worobey@email.arizona.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):605-6.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) sequences that pre-date the
recognition of AIDS are critical to defining the time of origin and the timescale
of virus evolution. A viral sequence from 1959 (ZR59) is the oldest known HIV-1
infection. Other historically documented sequences, important calibration points 
to convert evolutionary distance into time, are lacking, however; ZR59 is the
only one sampled before 1976. Here we report the amplification and
characterization of viral sequences from a Bouin's-fixed paraffin-embedded lymph 
node biopsy specimen obtained in 1960 from an adult female in Léopoldville,
Belgian Congo (now Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)), and we use 
them to conduct the first comparative evolutionary genetic study of early
pre-AIDS epidemic HIV-1 group M viruses. Phylogenetic analyses position this
viral sequence (DRC60) closest to the ancestral node of subtype A (excluding A2).
Relaxed molecular clock analyses incorporating DRC60 and ZR59 date the most
recent common ancestor of the M group to near the beginning of the twentieth
century. The sizeable genetic distance between DRC60 and ZR59 directly
demonstrates that diversification of HIV-1 in west-central Africa occurred long
before the recognized AIDS pandemic. The recovery of viral gene sequences from
decades-old paraffin-embedded tissues opens the door to a detailed
palaeovirological investigation of the evolutionary history of HIV-1 that is not 
accessible by other methods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07390 
PMCID: PMC3682493
PMID: 18833279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):657-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07301.

Crystallographic preferred orientation of akimotoite and seismic anisotropy of
Tonga slab.

Shiraishi R(1), Ohtani E, Kanagawa K, Shimojuku A, Zhao D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Mineralogy, Petrology, and Economic Geology, Tohoku University,
Sendai 980-8578, Japan. siraisir@ganko.tohoku.ac.jp

The mineral akimotoite, ilmenite-structured MgSiO(3), exists at the bottom of the
Earth's mantle transition zone and within the uppermost lower mantle, especially 
under low-temperature conditions. Akimotoite is thought to be a major constituent
of the harzburgite layer of subducting slabs, and the most anisotropic mineral in
the mantle transition zone. It has been predicted that if akimotoite crystals are
preferentially oriented by plastic deformation, a cold subducted slab would be
extremely anisotropic. However, there have been no studies of crystallographic
preferred orientations and very few reports of plastic deformation experiments
for MgSiO(3) ilmenite. Here we present plastic deformation experiments on
polycrystalline akimotoite, which were conducted at confining pressures of 20-22 
GPa and temperatures of 1,000-1,300 degrees C. We found a change in
crystallographic preferred orientation pattern of akimotoite with temperature,
where the c-axis maximum parallel to the compression direction develops at high
temperature, whereas the c axes are preferentially oriented parallel to the shear
direction or perpendicular to the compression direction at lower temperature. The
previously reported difference in compressional-wave seismic anisotropy between
the northern and southern segments of the Tonga slab at depths of the mantle
transition zone can conceivably be attributed to the difference in the
crystallographic preferred orientation pattern of akimotoite at varying
temperature within the slab.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07301 
PMID: 18833278 


266. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):652-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07337.

Thresholds for Cenozoic bipolar glaciation.

Deconto RM(1), Pollard D, Wilson PA, Pälike H, Lear CH, Pagani M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts
01003, USA. deconto@geo.umass.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):602-3.

The long-standing view of Earth's Cenozoic glacial history calls for the first
continental-scale glaciation of Antarctica in the earliest Oligocene epoch (
approximately 33.6 million years ago), followed by the onset of
northern-hemispheric glacial cycles in the late Pliocene epoch, about 31 million 
years later. The pivotal early Oligocene event is characterized by a rapid shift 
of 1.5 parts per thousand in deep-sea benthic oxygen-isotope values (Oi-1) within
a few hundred thousand years, reflecting a combination of terrestrial ice growth 
and deep-sea cooling. The apparent absence of contemporaneous cooling in deep-sea
Mg/Ca records, however, has been argued to reflect the growth of more ice than
can be accommodated on Antarctica; this, combined with new evidence of
continental cooling and ice-rafted debris in the Northern Hemisphere during this 
period, raises the possibility that Oi-1 represents a precursory bipolar
glaciation. Here we test this hypothesis using an isotope-capable global
climate/ice-sheet model that accommodates both the long-term decline of Cenozoic 
atmospheric CO(2) levels and the effects of orbital forcing. We show that the
CO(2) threshold below which glaciation occurs in the Northern Hemisphere (
approximately 280 p.p.m.v.) is much lower than that for Antarctica (
approximately 750 p.p.m.v.). Therefore, the growth of ice sheets in the Northern 
Hemisphere immediately following Antarctic glaciation would have required rapid
CO(2) drawdown within the Oi-1 timeframe, to levels lower than those estimated by
geochemical proxies and carbon-cycle models. Instead of bipolar glaciation, we
find that Oi-1 is best explained by Antarctic glaciation alone, combined with
deep-sea cooling of up to 4 degrees C and Antarctic ice that is less isotopically
depleted (-30 to -35 per thousand) than previously suggested. Proxy CO(2)
estimates remain above our model's northern-hemispheric glaciation threshold of
approximately 280 p.p.m.v. until approximately 25 Myr ago, but have been near or 
below that level ever since. This implies that episodic northern-hemispheric ice 
sheets have been possible some 20 million years earlier than currently assumed
(although still much later than Oi-1) and could explain some of the variability
in Miocene sea-level records.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07337 
PMID: 18833277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):648-51. doi: 10.1038/nature07278.

Nanoscale imaging magnetometry with diamond spins under ambient conditions.

Balasubramanian G(1), Chan IY, Kolesov R, Al-Hmoud M, Tisler J, Shin C, Kim C,
Wojcik A, Hemmer PR, Krueger A, Hanke T, Leitenstorfer A, Bratschitsch R, Jelezko
F, Wrachtrup J.

Author information: 
(1)3 Physikalisches Institut, Universität Stuttgart, 70550 Stuttgart, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):606-7.

Magnetic resonance imaging and optical microscopy are key technologies in the
life sciences. For microbiological studies, especially of the inner workings of
single cells, optical microscopy is normally used because it easily achieves
resolution close to the optical wavelength. But in conventional microscopy,
diffraction limits the resolution to about half the wavelength. Recently, it was 
shown that this limit can be partly overcome by nonlinear imaging techniques, but
there is still a barrier to reaching the molecular scale. In contrast, in
magnetic resonance imaging the spatial resolution is not determined by
diffraction; rather, it is limited by magnetic field sensitivity, and so can in
principle go well below the optical wavelength. The sensitivity of magnetic
resonance imaging has recently been improved enough to image single cells, and
magnetic resonance force microscopy has succeeded in detecting single electrons
and small nuclear spin ensembles. However, this technique currently requires
cryogenic temperatures, which limit most potential biological applications.
Alternatively, single-electron spin states can be detected optically, even at
room temperature in some systems. Here we show how magneto-optical spin detection
can be used to determine the location of a spin associated with a single
nitrogen-vacancy centre in diamond with nanometre resolution under ambient
conditions. By placing these nitrogen-vacancy spins in functionalized diamond
nanocrystals, biologically specific magnetofluorescent spin markers can be
produced. Significantly, we show that this nanometre-scale resolution can be
achieved without any probes located closer than typical cell dimensions.
Furthermore, we demonstrate the use of a single diamond spin as a scanning probe 
magnetometer to map nanoscale magnetic field variations. The potential impact of 
single-spin imaging at room temperature is far-reaching. It could lead to the
capability to probe biologically relevant spins in living cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07278 
PMID: 18833276 


268. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):644-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07279.

Nanoscale magnetic sensing with an individual electronic spin in diamond.

Maze JR(1), Stanwix PL, Hodges JS, Hong S, Taylor JM, Cappellaro P, Jiang L, Dutt
MV, Togan E, Zibrov AS, Yacoby A, Walsworth RL, Lukin MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):606-7.

Detection of weak magnetic fields with nanoscale spatial resolution is an
outstanding problem in the biological and physical sciences. For example, at a
distance of 10 nm, the spin of a single electron produces a magnetic field of
about 1 muT, and the corresponding field from a single proton is a few
nanoteslas. A sensor able to detect such magnetic fields with nanometre spatial
resolution would enable powerful applications, ranging from the detection of
magnetic resonance signals from individual electron or nuclear spins in complex
biological molecules to readout of classical or quantum bits of information
encoded in an electron or nuclear spin memory. Here we experimentally demonstrate
an approach to such nanoscale magnetic sensing, using coherent manipulation of an
individual electronic spin qubit associated with a nitrogen-vacancy impurity in
diamond at room temperature. Using an ultra-pure diamond sample, we achieve
detection of 3 nT magnetic fields at kilohertz frequencies after 100 s of
averaging. In addition, we demonstrate a sensitivity of 0.5 muT Hz(-1/2) for a
diamond nanocrystal with a diameter of 30 nm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07279 
PMID: 18833275 


269. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):641-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07266.

Clustered star formation as a natural explanation for the Halpha cut-off in disk 
galaxies.

Pflamm-Altenburg J(1), Kroupa P.

Author information: 
(1)Argelander-Institut für Astronomie, Universität Bonn, 53121 Bonn, Germany.
jpflamm@astro.uni-bonn.de

The rate of star formation in a galaxy is often determined by the observation of 
emission in the Halpha line, which is related to the presence of short-lived
massive stars. Disk galaxies show a strong cut-off in Halpha radiation at a
certain galactocentric distance, which has led to the conclusion that star
formation is suppressed in the outer regions of disk galaxies. This is seemingly 
in contradiction to recent observations in the ultraviolet which imply that disk 
galaxies have star formation beyond the Halpha cut-off, and that the
star-formation-rate surface density is linearly related to the underlying gas
surface density, which is a shallower relationship than that derived from Halpha 
luminosities. In a galaxy-wide formulation, the clustered nature of star
formation has recently led to the insight that the total galactic Halpha
luminosity is nonlinearly related to the galaxy-wide star formation rate. Here we
show that a local formulation of the concept of clustered star formation
naturally leads to a steeper radial decrease in the Halpha surface luminosity
than in the star-formation-rate surface density, in quantitative agreement with
the observations, and that the observed Halpha cut-off arises naturally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07266 
PMID: 18833274 


270. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):638-40. doi: 10.1038/nature07264.

An 84-microG magnetic field in a galaxy at redshift z = 0.692.

Wolfe AM(1), Jorgenson RA, Robishaw T, Heiles C, Prochaska JX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0424, USA.
awolfe@ucsd.edu

The magnetic field pervading our Galaxy is a crucial constituent of the
interstellar medium: it mediates the dynamics of interstellar clouds, the energy 
density of cosmic rays, and the formation of stars. The field associated with
ionized interstellar gas has been determined through observations of pulsars in
our Galaxy. Radio-frequency measurements of pulse dispersion and the rotation of 
the plane of linear polarization, that is, Faraday rotation, yield an average
value for the magnetic field of B approximately 3 microG (ref. 2). The possible
detection of Faraday rotation of linearly polarized photons emitted by
high-redshift quasars suggests similar magnetic fields are present in foreground 
galaxies with redshifts z > 1. As Faraday rotation alone, however, determines
neither the magnitude nor the redshift of the magnetic field, the strength of
galactic magnetic fields at redshifts z > 0 remains uncertain. Here we report a
measurement of a magnetic field of B approximately 84 microG in a galaxy at z =
0.692, using the same Zeeman-splitting technique that revealed an average value
of B = 6 microG in the neutral interstellar gas of our Galaxy. This is
unexpected, as the leading theory of magnetic field generation, the mean-field
dynamo model, predicts large-scale magnetic fields to be weaker in the past
rather than stronger.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07264 
PMID: 18833273 


271. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):620-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07285.

Speciation through sensory drive in cichlid fish.

Seehausen O(1), Terai Y, Magalhaes IS, Carleton KL, Mrosso HD, Miyagi R, van der 
Sluijs I, Schneider MV, Maan ME, Tachida H, Imai H, Okada N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, University of Bern, Baltzerstr. 6, CH-3012 Bern,
Switzerland. ole.seehausen@aqua.unibe.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):601-2.

Theoretically, divergent selection on sensory systems can cause speciation
through sensory drive. However, empirical evidence is rare and incomplete. Here
we demonstrate sensory drive speciation within island populations of cichlid
fish. We identify the ecological and molecular basis of divergent evolution in
the cichlid visual system, demonstrate associated divergence in male colouration 
and female preferences, and show subsequent differentiation at neutral loci,
indicating reproductive isolation. Evidence is replicated in several pairs of
sympatric populations and species. Variation in the slope of the environmental
gradients explains variation in the progress towards speciation: speciation
occurs on all but the steepest gradients. This is the most complete demonstration
so far of speciation through sensory drive without geographical isolation. Our
results also provide a mechanistic explanation for the collapse of cichlid fish
species diversity during the anthropogenic eutrophication of Lake Victoria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07285 
PMID: 18833272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):613-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07352.

Challenges in the development of an HIV-1 vaccine.

Barouch DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA. dbarouch@bidmc.harvard.edu

The development of a safe and effective human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1
vaccine is a critically important global health priority. Despite recent advances
in our understanding of HIV-1 pathogenesis and immunology, however, major
scientific obstacles remain. Prototype HIV-1 vaccine candidates aimed at
eliciting humoral and cellular immune responses have so far failed to protect
against HIV-1 infection or to reduce viral loads after infection in clinical
efficacy studies. A renewed and coordinated commitment to basic discovery
research, preclinical studies and clinical trials will therefore be required to
overcome the hurdles currently facing the field. Here I review key challenges and
future prospects in the quest to develop a prophylactic HIV-1 vaccine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07352 
PMCID: PMC2572109
PMID: 18833271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):609-11. doi: 10.1038/455609a.

The changing face of HIV in China.

Lu L(1), Jia M, Ma Y, Yang L, Chen Z, Ho DD, Jiang Y, Zhang L.

Author information: 
(1)Yunnan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Yunnan, People's Republic of
China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):566.

HIV has advanced from high-risk groups such as intravenous drug users to some in 
the general population, according to comprehensive new data from the south of
China. What needs to be done to halt its spread?

DOI: 10.1038/455609a 
PMID: 18833270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):684-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07267. Epub 2008 Sep 10.

Eukaryotic initiation factor 6 is rate-limiting in translation, growth and
transformation.

Gandin V(1), Miluzio A, Barbieri AM, Beugnet A, Kiyokawa H, Marchisio PC, Biffo
S.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Histology and Cell Growth Laboratory, San Raffaele Science
Institute, Via Olgettina 58, 20132 Milan, Italy.

Cell growth and proliferation require coordinated ribosomal biogenesis and
translation. Eukaryotic initiation factors (eIFs) control translation at the
rate-limiting step of initiation. So far, only two eIFs connect extracellular
stimuli to global translation rates: eIF4E acts in the eIF4F complex and
regulates binding of capped messenger RNA to 40S subunits, downstream of growth
factors, and eIF2 controls loading of the ternary complex on the 40S subunit and 
is inhibited on stress stimuli. No eIFs have been found to link extracellular
stimuli to the activity of the large 60S ribosomal subunit. eIF6 binds 60S
ribosomes precluding ribosome joining in vitro. However, studies in yeasts showed
that eIF6 is required for ribosome biogenesis rather than translation. Here we
show that mammalian eIF6 is required for efficient initiation of translation, in 
vivo. eIF6 null embryos are lethal at preimplantation. Heterozygous mice have 50%
reduction of eIF6 levels in all tissues, and show reduced mass of hepatic and
adipose tissues due to a lower number of cells and to impaired G1/S cell cycle
progression. eIF6(+/-) cells retain sufficient nucleolar eIF6 and normal ribosome
biogenesis. The liver of eIF6(+/-) mice displays an increase of 80S in polysomal 
profiles, indicating a defect in initiation of translation. Consistently,
isolated hepatocytes have impaired insulin-stimulated translation. Heterozygous
mouse embryonic fibroblasts recapitulate the organism phenotype and have normal
ribosome biogenesis, reduced insulin-stimulated translation, and delayed G1/S
phase progression. Furthermore, eIF6(+/-) cells are resistant to oncogene-induced
transformation. Thus, eIF6 is the first eIF associated with the large 60S subunit
that regulates translation in response to extracellular signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07267 
PMCID: PMC2753212
PMID: 18784653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):665-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07246. Epub 2008 Sep 7.

Individual differences in non-verbal number acuity correlate with maths
achievement.

Halberda J(1), Mazzocco MM, Feigenson L.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University, Ames Hall, 3400 North Charles Street, Baltimore,
Maryland 21218, USA. halberda@jhu.edu

Human mathematical competence emerges from two representational systems.
Competence in some domains of mathematics, such as calculus, relies on symbolic
representations that are unique to humans who have undergone explicit teaching.
More basic numerical intuitions are supported by an evolutionarily ancient
approximate number system that is shared by adults, infants and non-human
animals-these groups can all represent the approximate number of items in visual 
or auditory arrays without verbally counting, and use this capacity to guide
everyday behaviour such as foraging. Despite the widespread nature of the
approximate number system both across species and across development, it is not
known whether some individuals have a more precise non-verbal 'number sense' than
others. Furthermore, the extent to which this system interfaces with the formal, 
symbolic maths abilities that humans acquire by explicit instruction remains
unknown. Here we show that there are large individual differences in the
non-verbal approximation abilities of 14-year-old children, and that these
individual differences in the present correlate with children's past scores on
standardized maths achievement tests, extending all the way back to kindergarten.
Moreover, this correlation remains significant when controlling for individual
differences in other cognitive and performance factors. Our results show that
individual differences in achievement in school mathematics are related to
individual differences in the acuity of an evolutionarily ancient, unlearned
approximate number sense. Further research will determine whether early
differences in number sense acuity affect later maths learning, whether maths
education enhances number sense acuity, and the extent to which tertiary factors 
can affect both.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07246 
PMID: 18776888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):669-73. doi: 10.1038/nature07291.

UNC-6/netrin and its receptor UNC-5 locally exclude presynaptic components from
dendrites.

Poon VY(1), Klassen MP, Shen K.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Stanford University School of Medicine, 300 Pasteur
Drive, California 94305, USA.

Polarity is an essential feature of many cell types, including neurons that
receive information from local inputs within their dendrites and propagate nerve 
impulses to distant targets through a single axon. It is generally believed that 
intrinsic structural differences between axons and dendrites dictate the
polarized localization of axonal and dendritic proteins. However, whether
extracellular cues also instruct this process in vivo has not been explored. Here
we show that the axon guidance cue UNC-6/netrin and its receptor UNC-5 act
throughout development to exclude synaptic vesicle and active zone proteins from 
the dendrite of the Caenorhabditis elegans motor neuron DA9, which is proximal to
a source of UNC-6/netrin. In unc-6/netrin and unc-5 loss-of-function mutants,
presynaptic components mislocalize to the DA9 dendrite. In addition, ectopically 
expressed UNC-6/netrin, acting through UNC-5, is sufficient to exclude endogenous
synapses from adjacent subcellular domains within the DA9 axon. Furthermore, this
anti-synaptogenic activity is interchangeable with that of LIN-44/Wnt despite
being transduced through different receptors, suggesting that extracellular cues 
such as netrin and Wnts not only guide axon navigation but also regulate the
polarized accumulation of presynaptic components through local exclusion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07291 
PMCID: PMC3912858
PMID: 18776887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):633-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07283. Epub 2008 Aug 31.

Structure of the Tribolium castaneum telomerase catalytic subunit TERT.

Gillis AJ(1), Schuller AP, Skordalakes E.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression and Regulation Program, The Wistar Institute, 3601 Spruce
Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

A common hallmark of human cancers is the overexpression of telomerase, a
ribonucleoprotein complex that is responsible for maintaining the length and
integrity of chromosome ends. Telomere length deregulation and telomerase
activation is an early, and perhaps necessary, step in cancer cell evolution.
Here we present the high-resolution structure of the Tribolium castaneum
catalytic subunit of telomerase, TERT. The protein consists of three highly
conserved domains, organized into a ring-like structure that shares common
features with retroviral reverse transcriptases, viral RNA polymerases and
B-family DNA polymerases. Domain organization places motifs implicated in
substrate binding and catalysis in the interior of the ring, which can
accommodate seven to eight bases of double-stranded nucleic acid. Modelling of an
RNA-DNA heteroduplex in the interior of this ring demonstrates a perfect fit
between the protein and the nucleic acid substrate, and positions the 3'-end of
the DNA primer at the active site of the enzyme, providing evidence for the
formation of an active telomerase elongation complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07283 
PMID: 18758444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):627-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07314. Epub 2008 Aug 27.

In vivo reprogramming of adult pancreatic exocrine cells to beta-cells.

Zhou Q(1), Brown J, Kanarek A, Rajagopal J, Melton DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Harvard University, 7 Divinity Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):604-5.

One goal of regenerative medicine is to instructively convert adult cells into
other cell types for tissue repair and regeneration. Although isolated examples
of adult cell reprogramming are known, there is no general understanding of how
to turn one cell type into another in a controlled manner. Here, using a strategy
of re-expressing key developmental regulators in vivo, we identify a specific
combination of three transcription factors (Ngn3 (also known as Neurog3) Pdx1 and
Mafa) that reprograms differentiated pancreatic exocrine cells in adult mice into
cells that closely resemble beta-cells. The induced beta-cells are
indistinguishable from endogenous islet beta-cells in size, shape and
ultrastructure. They express genes essential for beta-cell function and can
ameliorate hyperglycaemia by remodelling local vasculature and secreting insulin.
This study provides an example of cellular reprogramming using defined factors in
an adult organ and suggests a general paradigm for directing cell reprogramming
without reversion to a pluripotent stem cell state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07314 
PMID: 18754011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):674-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07317. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

STING is an endoplasmic reticulum adaptor that facilitates innate immune
signalling.

Ishikawa H(1), Barber GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University
of Miami School of Medicine, Miami, Florida 33136, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):274.

The cellular innate immune system is essential for recognizing pathogen infection
and for establishing effective host defence. But critical molecular determinants 
responsible for facilitating an appropriate immune response-following infection
with DNA and RNA viruses, for example-remain to be identified. Here we report the
identification, following expression cloning, of a molecule (STING; stimulator of
interferon genes) that appears essential for effective innate immune signalling
processes. It comprises five putative transmembrane regions, predominantly
resides in the endoplasmic reticulum and is able to activate both NF-kappaB and
IRF3 transcription pathways to induce expression of type I interferon (IFN-alpha 
and IFN-beta ) and exert a potent anti-viral state following expression. In
contrast, loss of STING rendered murine embryonic fibroblasts extremely
susceptible to negative-stranded virus infection, including vesicular stomatitis 
virus. Further, STING ablation abrogated the ability of intracellular B-form DNA,
as well as members of the herpesvirus family, to induce IFN-beta, but did not
significantly affect the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway. Yeast two-hybrid and
co-immunoprecipitation studies indicated that STING interacts with RIG-I and with
SSR2 (also known as TRAPbeta), which is a member of the translocon-associated
protein (TRAP) complex required for protein translocation across the endoplasmic 
reticulum membrane following translation. Ablation by RNA interference of both
TRAPbeta and translocon adaptor SEC61beta was subsequently found to inhibit
STING's ability to stimulate expression of IFN-beta. Thus, as well as identifying
a regulator of innate immune signalling, our results imply a potential role for
the translocon in innate signalling pathways activated by select viruses as well 
as intracellular DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07317 
PMCID: PMC2804933
PMID: 18724357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):679-83. doi: 10.1038/nature07260. Epub 2008 Aug 17.

Modelling Myc inhibition as a cancer therapy.

Soucek L(1), Whitfield J, Martins CP, Finch AJ, Murphy DJ, Sodir NM, Karnezis AN,
Swigart LB, Nasi S, Evan GI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143-0875, USA.

Myc is a pleiotropic basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factor
that coordinates expression of the diverse intracellular and extracellular
programs that together are necessary for growth and expansion of somatic cells.
In principle, this makes inhibition of Myc an attractive pharmacological approach
for treating diverse types of cancer. However, enthusiasm has been muted by lack 
of direct evidence that Myc inhibition would be therapeutically efficacious,
concerns that it would induce serious side effects by inhibiting proliferation of
normal tissues, and practical difficulties in designing Myc inhibitory drugs. We 
have modelled genetically both the therapeutic impact and the side effects of
systemic Myc inhibition in a preclinical mouse model of Ras-induced lung
adenocarcinoma by reversible, systemic expression of a dominant-interfering Myc
mutant. We show that Myc inhibition triggers rapid regression of incipient and
established lung tumours, defining an unexpected role for endogenous Myc function
in the maintenance of Ras-dependent tumours in vivo. Systemic Myc inhibition also
exerts profound effects on normal regenerating tissues. However, these effects
are well tolerated over extended periods and rapidly and completely reversible.
Our data demonstrate the feasibility of targeting Myc, a common downstream
conduit for many oncogenic signals, as an effective, efficient and
tumour-specific cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07260 
PMCID: PMC4485609
PMID: 18716624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):689-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07215. Epub 2008 Aug 20.

CDK targets Sae2 to control DNA-end resection and homologous recombination.

Huertas P(1), Cortés-Ledesma F, Sartori AA, Aguilera A, Jackson SP.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust and Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute, and Department of 
Zoology, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.

DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are repaired by two principal mechanisms:
non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination (HR). HR is the
most accurate DSB repair mechanism but is generally restricted to the S and G2
phases of the cell cycle, when DNA has been replicated and a sister chromatid is 
available as a repair template. By contrast, NHEJ operates throughout the cell
cycle but assumes most importance in G1 (refs 4, 6). The choice between repair
pathways is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs), with a major
site of control being at the level of DSB resection, an event that is necessary
for HR but not NHEJ, and which takes place most effectively in S and G2 (refs 2, 
5). Here we establish that cell-cycle control of DSB resection in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae results from the phosphorylation by CDK of an evolutionarily conserved
motif in the Sae2 protein. We show that mutating Ser 267 of Sae2 to a
non-phosphorylatable residue causes phenotypes comparable to those of a sae2Delta
null mutant, including hypersensitivity to camptothecin, defective sporulation,
reduced hairpin-induced recombination, severely impaired DNA-end processing and
faulty assembly and disassembly of HR factors. Furthermore, a Sae2 mutation that 
mimics constitutive Ser 267 phosphorylation complements these phenotypes and
overcomes the necessity of CDK activity for DSB resection. The Sae2 mutations
also cause cell-cycle-stage specific hypersensitivity to DNA damage and affect
the balance between HR and NHEJ. These findings therefore provide a mechanistic
basis for cell-cycle control of DSB repair and highlight the importance of
regulating DSB resection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07215 
PMCID: PMC2635538
PMID: 18716619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):542-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07255.

FcRn-mediated antibody transport across epithelial cells revealed by electron
tomography.

He W(1), Ladinsky MS, Huey-Tubman KE, Jensen GJ, McIntosh JR, Björkman PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 114-96, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

The neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) transports maternal IgG across epithelial
barriers, thereby providing the fetus or newborn with humoral immunity before its
immune system is fully functional. In newborn rats, FcRn transfers IgG from milk 
to blood by apical-to-basolateral transcytosis across intestinal epithelial
cells. The pH difference between the apical (pH 6.0-6.5) and basolateral (pH 7.4)
sides of intestinal epithelial cells facilitates the efficient unidirectional
transport of IgG, because FcRn binds IgG at pH 6.0-6.5 but not at pH 7 or more.
As milk passes through the neonatal intestine, maternal IgG is removed by
FcRn-expressing cells in the proximal small intestine (duodenum and jejunum);
remaining proteins are absorbed and degraded by FcRn-negative cells in the distal
small intestine (ileum). Here we use electron tomography to make jejunal
transcytosis visible directly in space and time, developing new labelling and
detection methods to map individual nanogold-labelled Fc within transport
vesicles and simultaneously to characterize these vesicles by immunolabelling.
Combining electron tomography with a non-perturbing endocytic label allowed us to
conclusively identify receptor-bound ligands, resolve interconnecting vesicles,
determine whether a vesicle was microtubule-associated, and accurately trace
FcRn-mediated transport of IgG. Our results present a complex picture in which Fc
moves through networks of entangled tubular and irregular vesicles, only some of 
which are microtubule-associated, as it migrates to the basolateral surface. New 
features of transcytosis are elucidated, including transport involving
multivesicular body inner vesicles/tubules and exocytosis through clathrin-coated
pits. Markers for early, late and recycling endosomes each labelled vesicles in
different and overlapping morphological classes, revealing spatial complexity in 
endo-lysosomal trafficking.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07255 
PMCID: PMC2773227
PMID: 18818657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):523-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07286.

Intraseasonal interaction between the Madden-Julian Oscillation and the North
Atlantic Oscillation.

Cassou C(1).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS-Cerfacs, Global Change and Climate Modelling project, 42 Avenue G.
Coriolis, 31057 Toulouse, France. cassou@cerfacs.fr

Bridging the traditional gap between the spatio-temporal scales of weather and
climate is a significant challenge facing the atmospheric community. In
particular, progress in both medium-range and seasonal-to-interannual climate
prediction relies on our understanding of recurrent weather patterns and the
identification of specific causes responsible for their favoured occurrence,
persistence or transition. Within this framework, I here present evidence that
the main climate intra-seasonal oscillation in the tropics-the Madden-Julian
Oscillation (MJO)-controls part of the distribution and sequences of the four
daily weather regimes defined over the North Atlantic-European region in winter. 
North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) regimes are the most affected, allowing for
medium-range predictability of their phase far exceeding the limit of around one 
week that is usually quoted. The tropical-extratropical lagged relationship is
asymmetrical. Positive NAO events mostly respond to a mid-latitude low-frequency 
wave train initiated by the MJO in the western-central tropical Pacific and
propagating eastwards. Precursors for negative NAO events are found in the
eastern tropical Pacific-western Atlantic, leading to changes along the North
Atlantic storm track. Wave-breaking diagnostics tend to support the MJO
preconditioning and the role of transient eddies in setting the phase of the NAO.
I present a simple statistical model to quantitatively assess the potential
predictability of the daily NAO index or the sign of the NAO regimes when they
occur. Forecasts are successful in approximately 70 per cent of the cases based
on the knowledge of the previous approximately 12-day MJO phase used as a
predictor. This promising skill could be of importance considering the tight link
between weather regimes and both mean conditions and the chances of extreme
events occurring over Europe. These findings are useful for further stressing the
need to better simulate and forecast the tropical coupled ocean-atmosphere
dynamics, which is a source of medium-to-long range predictability and is the
Achilles' heel of the current seamless prediction suites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07286 
PMID: 18818656 


284. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):519-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07302.

Observed and modelled stability of overflow across the Greenland-Scotland ridge.

Olsen SM(1), Hansen B, Quadfasel D, Østerhus S.

Author information: 
(1)Danish Meteorological Institute, Lyngbyvej 100, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
smo@dmi.dk

Across the Greenland-Scotland ridge there is a continuous flow of cold dense
water, termed 'overflow', from the Nordic seas to the Atlantic Ocean. This is a
main contributor to the production of North Atlantic Deep Water that feeds the
lower limb of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation, which has been
predicted to weaken as a consequence of climate change. The two main overflow
branches pass the Denmark Strait and the Faroe Bank channel. Here we combine
results from direct current measurements in the Faroe Bank channel for 1995-2005 
with an ensemble hindcast experiment for 1948-2005 using an ocean general
circulation model. For the overlapping period we find a convincing agreement
between model simulations and observations on monthly to interannual timescales. 
Both observations and model data show no significant trend in volume transport.
In addition, for the whole 1948-2005 period, the model indicates no persistent
trend in the Faroe Bank channel overflow or in the total overflow transport, in
agreement with the few available historical observations. Deepening isopycnals in
the Norwegian Sea have tended to decrease the pressure difference across the
Greenland-Scotland ridge, but this has been compensated for by the effect of
changes in sea level. In contrast with earlier studies, we therefore conclude
that the Faroe Bank channel overflow, and also the total overflow, did not
decrease consistently from 1950 to 2005, although the model does show a weakening
total Atlantic meridional overturning circulation as a result of changes south of
the Greenland-Scotland ridge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07302 
PMID: 18818655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):515-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07318.

Magnetization vector manipulation by electric fields.

Chiba D(1), Sawicki M, Nishitani Y, Nakatani Y, Matsukura F, Ohno H.

Author information: 
(1)Semiconductor Spintronics Project, Exploratory Research for Advanced
Technology, Japan Science and Technology Agency, Sanban-cho 5, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 
102-0075, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):474-5.

Conventional semiconductor devices use electric fields to control conductivity, a
scalar quantity, for information processing. In magnetic materials, the direction
of magnetization, a vector quantity, is of fundamental importance. In magnetic
data storage, magnetization is manipulated with a current-generated magnetic
field (Oersted-Ampère field), and spin current is being studied for use in
non-volatile magnetic memories. To make control of magnetization fully compatible
with semiconductor devices, it is highly desirable to control magnetization using
electric fields. Conventionally, this is achieved by means of magnetostriction
produced by mechanically generated strain through the use of piezoelectricity.
Multiferroics have been widely studied in an alternative approach where
ferroelectricity is combined with ferromagnetism. Magnetic-field control of
electric polarization has been reported in these multiferroics using the
magnetoelectric effect, but the inverse effect-direct electrical control of
magnetization-has not so far been observed. Here we show that the manipulation of
magnetization can be achieved solely by electric fields in a ferromagnetic
semiconductor, (Ga,Mn)As. The magnetic anisotropy, which determines the
magnetization direction, depends on the charge carrier (hole) concentration in
(Ga,Mn)As. By applying an electric field using a metal-insulator-semiconductor
structure, the hole concentration and, thereby, the magnetic anisotropy can be
controlled, allowing manipulation of the magnetization direction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07318 
PMID: 18818654 


286. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):510-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07288.

Reconstruction of non-classical cavity field states with snapshots of their
decoherence.

Deléglise S(1), Dotsenko I, Sayrin C, Bernu J, Brune M, Raimond JM, Haroche S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Kastler Brossel, Ecole Normale Supérieure, CNRS, Université Pierre
et Marie Curie, 24 rue Lhomond, 75231 Paris Cedex 05, France.

The state of a microscopic system encodes its complete quantum description, from 
which the probabilities of all measurement outcomes are inferred. Being a
statistical concept, the state cannot be obtained from a single system
realization, but can instead be reconstructed from an ensemble of copies through 
measurements on different realizations. Reconstructing the state of a set of
trapped particles shielded from their environment is an important step in the
investigation of the quantum-classical boundary. Although trapped-atom state
reconstructions have been achieved, it is challenging to perform similar
experiments with trapped photons because cavities that can store light for very
long times are required. Here we report the complete reconstruction and pictorial
representation of a variety of radiation states trapped in a cavity in which
several photons survive long enough to be repeatedly measured. Atoms crossing the
cavity one by one are used to extract information about the field. We obtain
images of coherent states, Fock states with a definite photon number and
'Schrödinger cat' states (superpositions of coherent states with different
phases). These states are equivalently represented by their density matrices or
Wigner functions. Quasi-classical coherent states have a Gaussian-shaped Wigner
function, whereas the Wigner functions of Fock and Schrödinger cat states show
oscillations and negativities revealing quantum interferences. Cavity damping
induces decoherence that quickly washes out such oscillations. We observe this
process and follow the evolution of decoherence by reconstructing snapshots of
Schrödinger cat states at successive times. Our reconstruction procedure is a
useful tool for further decoherence and quantum feedback studies of fields
trapped in one or two cavities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07288 
PMID: 18818653 


287. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):506-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07328.

Flares from a candidate Galactic magnetar suggest a missing link to dim isolated 
neutron stars.

Castro-Tirado AJ(1), de Ugarte Postigo A, Gorosabel J, Jelínek M, Fatkhullin TA, 
Sokolov VV, Ferrero P, Kann DA, Klose S, Sluse D, Bremer M, Winters JM,
Nuernberger D, Pérez-Ramírez D, Guerrero MA, French J, Melady G, Hanlon L,
McBreen B, Leventis K, Markoff SB, Leon S, Kraus A, Aceituno FJ, Cunniffe R,
Kubánek P, Vítek S, Schulze S, Wilson AC, Hudec R, Durant M, González-Pérez JM,
Shahbaz T, Guziy S, Pandey SB, Pavlenko L, Sonbas E, Trushkin SA, Bursov NN,
Nizhelskij NA, Sánchez-Fernández C, Sabau-Graziati L.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía del Consejo Superior de Investigaciones 
Científicas (IAA-CSIC), PO Box 03004, E-18080 Granada, Spain. ajct@iaa.es

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):477-8.

Magnetars are young neutron stars with very strong magnetic fields of the order
of 10(14)-10(15) G. They are detected in our Galaxy either as soft gamma-ray
repeaters or anomalous X-ray pulsars. Soft gamma-ray repeaters are a rare type of
gamma-ray transient sources that are occasionally detected as bursters in the
high-energy sky. No optical counterpart to the gamma-ray flares or the quiescent 
source has yet been identified. Here we report multi-wavelength observations of a
puzzling source, SWIFT J195509+261406. We detected more than 40 flaring episodes 
in the optical band over a time span of three days, and a faint infrared flare 11
days later, after which the source returned to quiescence. Our radio observations
confirm a Galactic nature and establish a lower distance limit of approximately
3.7 kpc. We suggest that SWIFT J195509+261406 could be an isolated magnetar whose
bursting activity has been detected at optical wavelengths, and for which the
long-term X-ray emission is short-lived. In this case, a new manifestation of
magnetar activity has been recorded and we can consider SWIFT J195509+261406 to
be a link between the 'persistent' soft gamma-ray repeaters/anomalous X-ray
pulsars and dim isolated neutron stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07328 
PMID: 18818652 


288. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):503-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07308.

Very fast optical flaring from a possible new Galactic magnetar.

Stefanescu A(1), Kanbach G, Słowikowska A, Greiner J, McBreen S, Sala G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics, PO Box 1312, 85741
Garching, Germany. astefan@mpe.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):477-8.

Highly luminous rapid flares are characteristic of processes around compact
objects like white dwarfs, neutron stars and black holes. In the high-energy
regime of X-rays and gamma-rays, outbursts with variabilities on timescales of
seconds or less are routinely observed, for example in gamma-ray bursts or soft
gamma-ray repeaters. At optical wavelengths, flaring activity on such timescales 
has not been observed, other than from the prompt phase of one exceptional
gamma-ray burst. This is mostly due to the fact that outbursts with strong, fast 
flaring are usually discovered in the high-energy regime; most optical follow-up 
observations of such transients use instruments with integration times exceeding 
tens of seconds, which are therefore unable to resolve fast variability. Here we 
show the observation of extremely bright and rapid optical flaring in the
Galactic transient SWIFT J195509.6+261406. Our optical light curves are
phenomenologically similar to high-energy light curves of soft gamma-ray
repeaters and anomalous X-ray pulsars, which are thought to be neutron stars with
extremely high magnetic fields (magnetars). This suggests that similar processes 
are in operation, but with strong emission in the optical, unlike in the case of 
other known magnetars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07308 
PMID: 18818651 


289. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):497-502. doi: 10.1038/nature07330.

Crystal structure of opsin in its G-protein-interacting conformation.

Scheerer P(1), Park JH, Hildebrand PW, Kim YJ, Krauss N, Choe HW, Hofmann KP,
Ernst OP.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Physik und Biophysik (CC2), Charité -
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):473-4.

Opsin, the ligand-free form of the G-protein-coupled receptor rhodopsin, at low
pH adopts a conformationally distinct, active G-protein-binding state known as
Ops*. A synthetic peptide derived from the main binding site of the
heterotrimeric G protein-the carboxy terminus of the alpha-subunit
(GalphaCT)-stabilizes Ops*. Here we present the 3.2 A crystal structure of the
bovine Ops*-GalphaCT peptide complex. GalphaCT binds to a site in opsin that is
opened by an outward tilt of transmembrane helix (TM) 6, a pairing of TM5 and
TM6, and a restructured TM7-helix 8 kink. Contacts along the inner surface of TM5
and TM6 induce an alpha-helical conformation in GalphaCT with a C-terminal
reverse turn. Main-chain carbonyl groups in the reverse turn constitute the
centre of a hydrogen-bonded network, which links the two receptor regions
containing the conserved E(D)RY and NPxxY(x)(5,6)F motifs. On the basis of the
Ops*-GalphaCT structure and known conformational changes in Galpha, we discuss
signal transfer from the receptor to the G protein nucleotide-binding site.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07330 
PMID: 18818650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):485-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07292.

Frequency-modulated nuclear localization bursts coordinate gene regulation.

Cai L(1), Dalal CK, Elowitz MB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Biology and Department of Applied
Physics, California Institute of Technology, M/C 114-96, Pasadena, California
91125, USA.

In yeast, the transcription factor Crz1 is dephosphorylated and translocates into
the nucleus in response to extracellular calcium. Here we show, using time-lapse 
microscopy, that Crz1 exhibits short bursts of nuclear localization (typically
lasting 2 min) that occur stochastically in individual cells and propagate to the
expression of downstream genes. Strikingly, calcium concentration controls the
frequency, but not the duration, of localization bursts. Using an analytic model,
we also show that this frequency modulation of bursts ensures proportional
expression of multiple target genes across a wide dynamic range of expression
levels, independent of promoter characteristics. We experimentally confirm this
theory with natural and synthetic Crz1 target promoters. Another stress-response 
transcription factor, Msn2, exhibits similar, but largely uncorrelated,
localization bursts under calcium stress suggesting that frequency-modulation
regulation of localization bursts may be a general control strategy used by the
cell to coordinate multi-gene responses to external signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07292 
PMCID: PMC2695983
PMID: 18818649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature07179. Epub 2008 Sep 14.

CDK8 is a colorectal cancer oncogene that regulates beta-catenin activity.

Firestein R(1), Bass AJ, Kim SY, Dunn IF, Silver SJ, Guney I, Freed E, Ligon AH, 
Vena N, Ogino S, Chheda MG, Tamayo P, Finn S, Shrestha Y, Boehm JS, Jain S,
Bojarski E, Mermel C, Barretina J, Chan JA, Baselga J, Tabernero J, Root DE,
Fuchs CS, Loda M, Shivdasani RA, Meyerson M, Hahn WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney
Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):479-80.

Aberrant activation of the canonical WNT/beta-catenin pathway occurs in almost
all colorectal cancers and contributes to their growth, invasion and survival.
Although dysregulated beta-catenin activity drives colon tumorigenesis, further
genetic perturbations are required to elaborate full malignant transformation. To
identify genes that both modulate beta-catenin activity and are essential for
colon cancer cell proliferation, we conducted two loss-of-function screens in
human colon cancer cells and compared genes identified in these screens with an
analysis of copy number alterations in colon cancer specimens. One of these
genes, CDK8, which encodes a member of the mediator complex, is located at
13q12.13, a region of recurrent copy number gain in a substantial fraction of
colon cancers. Here we show that the suppression of CDK8 expression inhibits
proliferation in colon cancer cells characterized by high levels of CDK8 and
beta-catenin hyperactivity. CDK8 kinase activity was necessary for
beta-catenin-driven transformation and for expression of several beta-catenin
transcriptional targets. Together these observations suggest that therapeutic
interventions targeting CDK8 may confer a clinical benefit in beta-catenin-driven
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07179 
PMCID: PMC2587138
PMID: 18794900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):552-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07310. Epub 2008 Sep 14.

E2F1 represses beta-catenin transcription and is antagonized by both pRB and
CDK8.

Morris EJ(1), Ji JY, Yang F, Di Stefano L, Herr A, Moon NS, Kwon EJ, Haigis KM,
Näär AM, Dyson NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center
and Harvard Medical School, 13th Street, Building 149, Charlestown, Massachusetts
02129, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):479-80.

The E2F1 transcription factor can promote proliferation or apoptosis when
activated, and is a key downstream target of the retinoblastoma tumour suppressor
protein (pRB). Here we show that E2F1 is a potent and specific inhibitor of
beta-catenin/T-cell factor (TCF)-dependent transcription, and that this function 
contributes to E2F1-induced apoptosis. E2F1 deregulation suppresses beta-catenin 
activity in an adenomatous polyposis coli (APC)/glycogen synthase kinase-3
(GSK3)-independent manner, reducing the expression of key beta-catenin targets
including c-MYC. This interaction explains why colorectal tumours, which depend
on beta-catenin transcription for their abnormal proliferation, keep RB1 intact. 
Remarkably, E2F1 activity is also repressed by cyclin-dependent kinase-8 (CDK8), 
a colorectal oncoprotein. Elevated levels of CDK8 protect
beta-catenin/TCF-dependent transcription from inhibition by E2F1. Thus, by
retaining RB1 and amplifying CDK8, colorectal tumour cells select conditions that
collectively suppress E2F1 and enhance the activity of beta-catenin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07310 
PMCID: PMC3148807
PMID: 18794899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):491-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07274. Epub 2008 Sep 10.

Trans-splicing in C. elegans generates the negative RNAi regulator ERI-6/7.

Fischer SE(1), Butler MD, Pan Q, Ruvkun G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Mutations that enhance the response to double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) have revealed 
components of the RNA interference (RNAi) pathway or related small RNA pathways. 
To explore these small RNA pathways, we screened for Caenorhabditis elegans
mutants displaying an enhanced response to exogenous dsRNAs. Here we describe the
isolation of mutations in two adjacent, divergently transcribed open reading
frames (eri-6 and eri-7) that fail to complement. eri-6 and eri-7 produce
separate pre-messenger RNAs (pre-mRNAs) that are trans-spliced to form a
functional mRNA, eri-6/7. Trans-splicing of eri-6/7 is mediated by a direct
repeat that flanks the eri-6 gene. Adenosine to inosine editing within
untranslated regions of eri-6 and eri-7 pre-mRNAs reveals a double-stranded
pre-mRNA intermediate, forming in the nucleus before splicing occurs. The ERI-6/7
protein is a superfamily I helicase that both negatively regulates the exogenous 
RNAi pathway and functions in an endogenous RNAi pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07274 
PMCID: PMC2756026
PMID: 18784652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):537-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07265. Epub 2008 Aug 27.

Functional auditory hair cells produced in the mammalian cochlea by in utero gene
transfer.

Gubbels SP(1), Woessner DW, Mitchell JC, Ricci AJ, Brigande JV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Oregon Hearing Research Center, Portland, Oregon
97239, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):475-7.

Sensory hair cells in the mammalian cochlea convert mechanical stimuli into
electrical impulses that subserve audition. Loss of hair cells and their
innervating neurons is the most frequent cause of hearing impairment. Atonal
homologue 1 (encoded by Atoh1, also known as Math1) is a basic helix-loop-helix
transcription factor required for hair-cell development, and its misexpression in
vitro and in vivo generates hair-cell-like cells. Atoh1-based gene therapy to
ameliorate auditory and vestibular dysfunction has been proposed. However, the
biophysical properties of putative hair cells induced by Atoh1 misexpression have
not been characterized. Here we show that in utero gene transfer of Atoh1
produces functional supernumerary hair cells in the mouse cochlea. The induced
hair cells display stereociliary bundles, attract neuronal processes and express 
the ribbon synapse marker carboxy-terminal binding protein 2 (refs 12,13).
Moreover, the hair cells are capable of mechanoelectrical transduction and show
basolateral conductances with age-appropriate specializations. Our results
demonstrate that manipulation of cell fate by transcription factor misexpression 
produces functional sensory cells in the postnatal mammalian cochlea. We expect
that our in utero gene transfer paradigm will enable the design and validation of
gene therapies to ameliorate hearing loss in mouse models of human deafness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07265 
PMCID: PMC2925035
PMID: 18754012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):532-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07231. Epub 2008 Aug 17.

Neutralizing antibodies derived from the B cells of 1918 influenza pandemic
survivors.

Yu X(1), Tsibane T, McGraw PA, House FS, Keefer CJ, Hicar MD, Tumpey TM, Pappas
C, Perrone LA, Martinez O, Stevens J, Wilson IA, Aguilar PV, Altschuler EL,
Basler CF, Crowe JE Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee 37232, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):570.

Investigation of the human antibody response to influenza virus infection has
been largely limited to serology, with relatively little analysis at the
molecular level. The 1918 H1N1 influenza virus pandemic was the most severe of
the modern era. Recent work has recovered the gene sequences of this unusual
strain, so that the 1918 pandemic virus could be reconstituted to display its
unique virulence phenotypes. However, little is known about adaptive immunity to 
this virus. We took advantage of the 1918 virus sequencing and the resultant
production of recombinant 1918 haemagglutinin (HA) protein antigen to
characterize at the clonal level neutralizing antibodies induced by natural
exposure of survivors to the 1918 pandemic virus. Here we show that of the 32
individuals tested that were born in or before 1915, each showed seroreactivity
with the 1918 virus, nearly 90 years after the pandemic. Seven of the eight donor
samples tested had circulating B cells that secreted antibodies that bound the
1918 HA. We isolated B cells from subjects and generated five monoclonal
antibodies that showed potent neutralizing activity against 1918 virus from three
separate donors. These antibodies also cross-reacted with the genetically similar
HA of a 1930 swine H1N1 influenza strain, but did not cross-react with HAs of
more contemporary human influenza viruses. The antibody genes had an unusually
high degree of somatic mutation. The antibodies bound to the 1918 HA protein with
high affinity, had exceptional virus-neutralizing potency and protected mice from
lethal infection. Isolation of viruses that escaped inhibition suggested that the
antibodies recognize classical antigenic sites on the HA surface. Thus, these
studies demonstrate that survivors of the 1918 influenza pandemic possess highly 
functional, virus-neutralizing antibodies to this uniquely virulent virus, and
that humans can sustain circulating B memory cells to viruses for many decades
after exposure-well into the tenth decade of life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07231 
PMCID: PMC2848880
PMID: 18716625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):557-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07233. Epub 2008 Aug 17.

Replication fork movement sets chromatin loop size and origin choice in mammalian
cells.

Courbet S(1), Gay S, Arnoult N, Wronka G, Anglana M, Brison O, Debatisse M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris, France; UPMC Univ. Paris 06,
F-75005 Paris, France.

Genome stability requires one, and only one, DNA duplication at each S phase. The
mechanisms preventing origin firing on newly replicated DNA are well documented, 
but much less is known about the mechanisms controlling the spacing of initiation
events(2,3), namely the completion of DNA replication. Here we show that origin
use in Chinese hamster cells depends on both the movement of the replication
forks and the organization of chromatin loops. We found that slowing the
replication speed triggers the recruitment of latent origins within minutes,
allowing the completion of S phase in a timely fashion. When slowly replicating
cells are shifted to conditions of fast fork progression, although the decrease
in the overall number of active origins occurs within 2 h, the cells still have
to go through a complete cell cycle before the efficiency specific to each origin
is restored. We observed a strict correlation between replication speed during a 
given S phase and the size of chromatin loops in the next G1 phase. Furthermore, 
we found that origins located at or near sites of anchorage of chromatin loops in
G1 are activated preferentially in the following S phase. These data suggest a
mechanism of origin programming in which replication speed determines the spacing
of anchorage regions of chromatin loops, that, in turn, controls the choice of
initiation sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07233 
PMID: 18716622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 2008 Sep 25;455(7212):528-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07180. Epub 2008 Aug 6.

Earliest date for milk use in the Near East and southeastern Europe linked to
cattle herding.

Evershed RP(1), Payne S, Sherratt AG, Copley MS, Coolidge J, Urem-Kotsu D,
Kotsakis K, Ozdoğan M, Ozdoğan AE, Nieuwenhuyse O, Akkermans PM, Bailey D,
Andeescu RR, Campbell S, Farid S, Hodder I, Yalman N, Ozbaşaran M, Biçakci E,
Garfinkel Y, Levy T, Burton MM.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Geochemistry Unit, Bristol Biogeochemistry Research Centre, School of 
Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock's Close, Bristol BS8 1TS, UK.
r.p.evershed@bristol.ac.uk

The domestication of cattle, sheep and goats had already taken place in the Near 
East by the eighth millennium bc. Although there would have been considerable
economic and nutritional gains from using these animals for their milk and other 
products from living animals-that is, traction and wool-the first clear evidence 
for these appears much later, from the late fifth and fourth millennia bc. Hence,
the timing and region in which milking was first practised remain unknown.
Organic residues preserved in archaeological pottery have provided direct
evidence for the use of milk in the fourth millennium in Britain, and in the
sixth millennium in eastern Europe, based on the delta(13)C values of the major
fatty acids of milk fat. Here we apply this approach to more than 2,200 pottery
vessels from sites in the Near East and southeastern Europe dating from the fifth
to the seventh millennia bc. We show that milk was in use by the seventh
millennium; this is the earliest direct evidence to date. Milking was
particularly important in northwestern Anatolia, pointing to regional differences
linked with conditions more favourable to cattle compared to other regions, where
sheep and goats were relatively common and milk use less important. The latter is
supported by correlations between the fat type and animal bone evidence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07180 
PMID: 18690215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):383-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07296.

Prolonged suppression of ecosystem carbon dioxide uptake after an anomalously
warm year.

Arnone JA 3rd(1), Verburg PS, Johnson DW, Larsen JD, Jasoni RL, Lucchesi AJ,
Batts CM, von Nagy C, Coulombe WG, Schorran DE, Buck PE, Braswell BH, Coleman JS,
Sherry RA, Wallace LL, Luo Y, Schimel DS.

Author information: 
(1)Desert Research Institute, Reno, Nevada 89512, USA. jarnone@dri.edu

Terrestrial ecosystems control carbon dioxide fluxes to and from the atmosphere
through photosynthesis and respiration, a balance between net primary
productivity and heterotrophic respiration, that determines whether an ecosystem 
is sequestering carbon or releasing it to the atmosphere. Global and
site-specific data sets have demonstrated that climate and climate variability
influence biogeochemical processes that determine net ecosystem carbon dioxide
exchange (NEE) at multiple timescales. Experimental data necessary to quantify
impacts of a single climate variable, such as temperature anomalies, on NEE and
carbon sequestration of ecosystems at interannual timescales have been lacking.
This derives from an inability of field studies to avoid the confounding effects 
of natural intra-annual and interannual variability in temperature and
precipitation. Here we present results from a four-year study using replicate
12,000-kg intact tallgrass prairie monoliths located in four 184-m(3) enclosed
lysimeters. We exposed 6 of 12 monoliths to an anomalously warm year in the
second year of the study and continuously quantified rates of ecosystem
processes, including NEE. We find that warming decreases NEE in both the extreme 
year and the following year by inducing drought that suppresses net primary
productivity in the extreme year and by stimulating heterotrophic respiration of 
soil biota in the subsequent year. Our data indicate that two years are required 
for NEE in the previously warmed experimental ecosystems to recover to levels
measured in the control ecosystems. This time lag caused net ecosystem carbon
sequestration in previously warmed ecosystems to be decreased threefold over the 
study period, compared with control ecosystems. Our findings suggest that more
frequent anomalously warm years, a possible consequence of increasing
anthropogenic carbon dioxide levels, may lead to a sustained decrease in carbon
dioxide uptake by terrestrial ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07296 
PMID: 18800137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):380-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07237.

Chiral colloidal clusters.

Zerrouki D(1), Baudry J, Pine D, Chaikin P, Bibette J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Colloïdes et Matériaux Divisés, ESPCI, UPMC, CNRS, ParisTech, 10
rue Vauquelin, 75005 Paris, France.

Chirality is an important element of biology, chemistry and physics. Once
symmetry is broken and a handedness is established, biochemical pathways are set.
In DNA, the double helix arises from the existence of two competing length
scales, one set by the distance between monomers in the sugar backbone, and the
other set by the stacking of the base pairs. Here we use a colloidal system to
explore a simple forcing route to chiral structures. To do so we have designed
magnetic colloids that, depending on both their shape and induced magnetization, 
self-assemble with controlled helicity. We model the two length scales with
asymmetric colloidal dumbbells linked by a magnetic belt at their waist. In the
presence of a magnetic field the belts assemble into a chain and the steric
constraints imposed by the asymmetric spheres force the chain to coil. We show
that if the size ratio between the spheres is large enough, a single helicity is 
adopted, right or left. The realization of chiral colloidal clusters opens up a
new link between colloidal science and chemistry. These colloidal clusters may
also find use as mesopolymers, as optical and light-activated structures, and as 
models for enantiomeric separation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07237 
PMID: 18800136 


300. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07251.

Unusual magnetic order in the pseudogap region of the superconductor
HgBa2CuO4+delta.

Li Y(1), Balédent V, Barisić N, Cho Y, Fauqué B, Sidis Y, Yu G, Zhao X, Bourges
P, Greven M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The pseudogap region of the phase diagram is an important unsolved puzzle in the 
field of high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) superconductivity, characterized
by anomalous physical properties. There are open questions about the number of
distinct phases and the possible presence of a quantum-critical point underneath 
the superconducting dome. The picture has remained unclear because there has not 
been conclusive evidence for a new type of order. Neutron scattering measurements
for YBa(2)Cu(3)O(6+delta) (YBCO) resulted in contradictory claims of no and weak 
magnetic order, and the interpretation of muon spin relaxation measurements on
YBCO and of circularly polarized photoemission experiments on
Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8+delta)(refs 12, 13) has been controversial. Here we use
polarized neutron diffraction to demonstrate for the model superconductor
HgBa(2)CuO(4+delta) (Hg1201) that the characteristic temperature T* marks the
onset of an unusual magnetic order. Together with recent results for YBCO, this
observation constitutes a demonstration of the universal existence of such a
state. The findings appear to rule out theories that regard T* as a crossover
temperature rather than a phase transition temperature. Instead, they are
consistent with a variant of previously proposed charge-current-loop order that
involves apical oxygen orbitals, and with the notion that many of the unusual
properties arise from the presence of a quantum-critical point.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07251 
PMID: 18800135 


301. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):369-71. doi: 10.1038/nature07277.

A periodicity of approximately 1 hour in X-ray emission from the active galaxy RE
J1034+396.

Gierliński M(1), Middleton M, Ward M, Done C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Durham, South Road, Durham DH1 3LE, UK.
marek.gierlinski@durham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):294-5.

Active galactic nuclei and quasars are thought to be scaled-up versions of
Galactic black hole binaries, powered by accretion onto supermassive black holes 
with masses of 10(6)-10(9) M[symbol: see text], as opposed to the approximately
10 M [symbol: see text] in binaries (here M [symbol: see text] is the solar
mass). One example of the similarities between these two types of systems is the 
characteristic rapid X-ray variability seen from the accretion flow. The power
spectrum of this variability in black hole binaries consists of a broad noise
with multiple quasi-periodic oscillations superimposed on it. Although the broad 
noise component has been observed in many active galactic nuclei, there have
hitherto been no significant detections of quasi-periodic oscillations. Here we
report the discovery of an approximately 1-hour X-ray periodicity in a bright
active galaxy, RE J1034+396. The signal is highly statistically significant (at
the 5.6 sigma level) and very coherent, with quality factor Q > 16. The X-ray
modulation arises from the direct vicinity of the black hole.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07277 
PMID: 18800134 


302. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):341-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07372.

Towards uranium catalysts.

Fox AR(1), Bart SC, Meyer K, Cummins CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Room 6-435, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139-2307, USA.

The forefront of research into the complexes of uranium reveals chemical
transformations that challenge and expand our view of this unique element.
Certain ligands form multiple bonds to uranium, and small, inert molecules such
as nitrogen and carbon dioxide become reactive when in complex with the metal.
Such complexes provide clues to the catalytic future of uranium, in which the
applications of the element extend far beyond the nuclear industry. Most
excitingly, the ability of uranium to use its outermost f electrons for binding
ligands might enable the element to catalyse reactions that are impossible with
conventional, transition-metal catalysts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07372 
PMID: 18800133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):333-40. doi: 10.1038/nature07371.

Biologically inspired oxidation catalysis.

Que L Jr(1), Tolman WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Center for Metals in Biocatalysis, University of
Minnesota, 207 Pleasant Street SE, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
larryque@umn.edu

The development of processes for selective hydrocarbon oxidation is a goal that
has long been pursued. An additional challenge is to make such processes
environmentally friendly, for example by using non-toxic reagents and
energy-efficient catalytic methods. Excellent examples are naturally occurring
iron- or copper-containing metalloenzymes, and extensive studies have revealed
the key chemical principles that underlie their efficacy as catalysts for aerobic
oxidations. Important inroads have been made in applying this knowledge to the
development of synthetic catalysts that model enzyme function. Such biologically 
inspired hydrocarbon oxidation catalysts hold great promise for wide-ranging
synthetic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07371 
PMID: 18800132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):323-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07370.

Natural products as inspiration for the development of asymmetric catalysis.

Mohr JT(1), Krout MR, Stoltz BM.

Author information: 
(1)The Arnold and Mabel Beckman Laboratories of Chemical Synthesis, Division of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, MC 164-30, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Biologically active natural products often contain particularly challenging
structural features and functionalities in terms of synthesis. Perhaps the
greatest difficulties are those caused by issues of stereochemistry. A useful
strategy for synthesizing such molecules is to devise methods of bond formation
that provide opportunities for using enantioselective catalysis. In using this
tactic, the desire for a particular target structure ultimately drives the
development of catalytic methods. New enantioselective catalytic methods
contribute to a greater fundamental understanding of how bonds can be constructed
and lead to valuable synthetic technologies that are useful for a variety of
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07370 
PMCID: PMC2562237
PMID: 18800131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):314-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07369.

Carbon-heteroatom bond formation catalysed by organometallic complexes.

Hartwig JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois, 600 South Mathews Avenue,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA. jhartwig@uiuc.edu

At one time the synthetic chemist's last resort, reactions catalysed by
transition metals are now the preferred method for synthesizing many types of
organic molecule. A recent success in this type of catalysis is the discovery of 
reactions that form bonds between carbon and heteroatoms (such as nitrogen,
oxygen, sulphur, silicon and boron) via complexes of transition metals with
amides, alkoxides, thiolates, silyl groups or boryl groups. The development of
these catalytic processes has been supported by the discovery of new elementary
reactions that occur at metal-heteroatom bonds and by the identification of
factors that control these reactions. Together, these findings have led to new
synthetic processes that are in daily use and have formed a foundation for the
development of processes that are likely to be central to synthetic chemistry in 
the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07369 
PMCID: PMC2819340
PMID: 18800130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):309-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07368.

Computational prediction of small-molecule catalysts.

Houk KN(1), Cheong PH.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 607
Charles E. Young Drive East, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
houk@chem.ucla.edu

Most organic and organometallic catalysts have been discovered through
serendipity or trial and error, rather than by rational design. Computational
methods, however, are rapidly becoming a versatile tool for understanding and
predicting the roles of such catalysts in asymmetric reactions. Such methods
should now be regarded as a first line of attack in the design of catalysts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07368 
PMCID: PMC2717898
PMID: 18800129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):304-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07367.

The advent and development of organocatalysis.

MacMillan DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Merck Center for Catalysis at Princeton University, 116 Frick Laboratory,
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA. dmacmill@princeton.edu

The use of small organic molecules as catalysts has been known for more than a
century. But only in the past decade has organocatalysis become a thriving area
of general concepts and widely applicable asymmetric reactions. Here I present my
opinion on why the field of organocatalysis has blossomed so dramatically over
the past decade.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07367 
PMID: 18800128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):416-20. doi: 10.1038/nature07192. Epub 2008 Aug 31.

Structure of the 30S translation initiation complex.

Simonetti A(1), Marzi S, Myasnikov AG, Fabbretti A, Yusupov M, Gualerzi CO,
Klaholz BP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Genetics and of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Department of
Structural Biology and Genomics, Illkirch F-67404, France.

Translation initiation, the rate-limiting step of the universal process of
protein synthesis, proceeds through sequential, tightly regulated steps. In
bacteria, the correct messenger RNA start site and the reading frame are selected
when, with the help of initiation factors IF1, IF2 and IF3, the initiation codon 
is decoded in the peptidyl site of the 30S ribosomal subunit by the
fMet-tRNA(fMet) anticodon. This yields a 30S initiation complex (30SIC) that is
an intermediate in the formation of the 70S initiation complex (70SIC) that
occurs on joining of the 50S ribosomal subunit to the 30SIC and release of the
initiation factors. The localization of IF2 in the 30SIC has proved to be
difficult so far using biochemical approaches, but could now be addressed using
cryo-electron microscopy and advanced particle separation techniques on the basis
of three-dimensional statistical analysis. Here we report the direct
visualization of a 30SIC containing mRNA, fMet-tRNA(fMet) and initiation factors 
IF1 and GTP-bound IF2. We demonstrate that the fMet-tRNA(fMet) is held in a
characteristic and precise position and conformation by two interactions that
contribute to the formation of a stable complex: one involves the transfer RNA
decoding stem which is buried in the 30S peptidyl site, and the other occurs
between the carboxy-terminal domain of IF2 and the tRNA acceptor end. The
structure provides insights into the mechanism of 70SIC assembly and rationalizes
the rapid activation of GTP hydrolysis triggered on 30SIC-50S joining by showing 
that the GTP-binding domain of IF2 would directly face the GTPase-activated
centre of the 50S subunit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07192 
PMID: 18758445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):358-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07254. Epub 2008 Aug 31.

Structural basis for specific cleavage of Lys 63-linked polyubiquitin chains.

Sato Y(1), Yoshikawa A, Yamagata A, Mimura H, Yamashita M, Ookata K, Nureki O,
Iwai K, Komada M, Fukai S.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Laboratory, Life Science Division, Synchrotron Radiation
Research Organization and Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):274.

Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) remove ubiquitin from conjugated substrates to
regulate various cellular processes. The Zn(2+)-dependent DUBs AMSH and AMSH-LP
regulate receptor trafficking by specifically cleaving Lys 63-linked
polyubiquitin chains from internalized receptors. Here we report the crystal
structures of the human AMSH-LP DUB domain alone and in complex with a Lys
63-linked di-ubiquitin at 1.2 A and 1.6 A resolutions, respectively. The AMSH-LP 
DUB domain consists of a Zn(2+)-coordinating catalytic core and two
characteristic insertions, Ins-1 and Ins-2. The distal ubiquitin interacts with
Ins-1 and the core, whereas the proximal ubiquitin interacts with Ins-2 and the
core. The core and Ins-1 form a catalytic groove that accommodates the Lys 63
side chain of the proximal ubiquitin and the isopeptide-linked carboxy-terminal
tail of the distal ubiquitin. This is the first reported structure of a DUB in
complex with an isopeptide-linked ubiquitin chain, which reveals the mechanism
for Lys 63-linkage-specific deubiquitination by AMSH family members.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07254 
PMID: 18758443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):411-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07238. Epub 2008 Aug 27.

S-Nitrosylation of histone deacetylase 2 induces chromatin remodelling in
neurons.

Nott A(1), Watson PM, Robinson JD, Crepaldi L, Riccio A.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory for Molecular and Cell Biology, and Department of Neuroscience,
Physiology and Pharmacology, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and other neurotrophins have a vital
role in the development of the rat and mouse nervous system by influencing the
expression of many specific genes that promote differentiation, cell survival,
synapse formation and, later, synaptic plasticity. Although nitric oxide (NO) is 
known to be an important mediator of BDNF signalling in neurons, the mechanisms
by which neurotrophins influence gene expression during development and
plasticity remain largely unknown. Here we show that BDNF triggers NO synthesis
and S-nitrosylation of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in neurons, resulting in
changes to histone modifications and gene activation. S-nitrosylation of HDAC2
occurs at Cys 262 and Cys 274 and does not affect deacetylase activity. In
contrast, nitrosylation of HDAC2 induces its release from chromatin, which
increases acetylation of histones surrounding neurotrophin-dependent gene
promoters and promotes transcription. Notably, nitrosylation of HDAC2 in
embryonic cortical neurons regulates dendritic growth and branching, possibly by 
the activation of CREB (cyclic-AMP-responsive-element-binding protein)-dependent 
genes. Thus, by stimulating NO production and S-nitrosylation of HDAC2,
neurotrophic factors promote chromatin remodelling and the activation of genes
that are associated with neuronal development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07238 
PMID: 18754010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):406-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07275. Epub 2008 Aug 27.

A paracrine requirement for hedgehog signalling in cancer.

Yauch RL(1), Gould SE, Scales SJ, Tang T, Tian H, Ahn CP, Marshall D, Fu L,
Januario T, Kallop D, Nannini-Pepe M, Kotkow K, Marsters JC, Rubin LL, de Sauvage
FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):293-4.

Ligand-dependent activation of the hedgehog (Hh) signalling pathway has been
associated with tumorigenesis in a number of human tissues. Here we show that,
although previous reports have described a cell-autonomous role for Hh signalling
in these tumours, Hh ligands fail to activate signalling in tumour epithelial
cells. In contrast, our data support ligand-dependent activation of the Hh
pathway in the stromal microenvironment. Specific inhibition of Hh signalling
using small molecule inhibitors, a neutralizing anti-Hh antibody or genetic
deletion of smoothened (Smo) in the mouse stroma results in growth inhibition in 
xenograft tumour models. Taken together, these studies demonstrate a paracrine
requirement for Hh ligand signalling in the tumorigenesis of Hh-expressing
cancers and have important implications for the development of Hh pathway
antagonists in cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07275 
PMID: 18754008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):401-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07213. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

Regulatory networks define phenotypic classes of human stem cell lines.

Müller FJ(1), Laurent LC, Kostka D, Ulitsky I, Williams R, Lu C, Park IH, Rao MS,
Shamir R, Schwartz PH, Schmidt NO, Loring JF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North 
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. fj.mueller@zip-kiel.de

Stem cells are defined as self-renewing cell populations that can differentiate
into multiple distinct cell types. However, hundreds of different human cell
lines from embryonic, fetal and adult sources have been called stem cells, even
though they range from pluripotent cells-typified by embryonic stem cells, which 
are capable of virtually unlimited proliferation and differentiation-to adult
stem cell lines, which can generate a far more limited repertoire of
differentiated cell types. The rapid increase in reports of new sources of stem
cells and their anticipated value to regenerative medicine has highlighted the
need for a general, reproducible method for classification of these cells. We
report here the creation and analysis of a database of global gene expression
profiles (which we call the 'stem cell matrix') that enables the classification
of cultured human stem cells in the context of a wide variety of pluripotent,
multipotent and differentiated cell types. Using an unsupervised clustering
method to categorize a collection of approximately 150 cell samples, we
discovered that pluripotent stem cell lines group together, whereas other cell
types, including brain-derived neural stem cell lines, are very diverse. Using
further bioinformatic analysis we uncovered a protein-protein network (PluriNet) 
that is shared by the pluripotent cells (embryonic stem cells, embryonal
carcinomas and induced pluripotent cells). Analysis of published data showed that
the PluriNet seems to be a common characteristic of pluripotent cells, including 
mouse embryonic stem and induced pluripotent cells and human oocytes. Our results
offer a new strategy for classifying stem cells and support the idea that
pluripotency and self-renewal are under tight control by specific molecular
networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07213 
PMCID: PMC2637443
PMID: 18724358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):351-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07287. Epub 2008 Aug 17.

An intrinsic mechanism of corticogenesis from embryonic stem cells.

Gaspard N(1), Bouschet T, Hourez R, Dimidschstein J, Naeije G, van den Ameele J, 
Espuny-Camacho I, Herpoel A, Passante L, Schiffmann SN, Gaillard A, Vanderhaeghen
P.

Author information: 
(1)IRIBHM (Institute for Interdisciplinary Research), Université Libre de
Bruxelles (ULB).

The cerebral cortex develops through the coordinated generation of dozens of
neuronal subtypes, but the mechanisms involved remain unclear. Here we show that 
mouse embryonic stem cells, cultured without any morphogen but in the presence of
a sonic hedgehog inhibitor, recapitulate in vitro the major milestones of
cortical development, leading to the sequential generation of a diverse
repertoire of neurons that display most salient features of genuine cortical
pyramidal neurons. When grafted into the cerebral cortex, these neurons develop
patterns of axonal projections corresponding to a wide range of cortical layers, 
but also to highly specific cortical areas, in particular visual and limbic
areas, thereby demonstrating that the identity of a cortical area can be
specified without any influence from the brain. The discovery of intrinsic
corticogenesis sheds new light on the mechanisms of neuronal specification, and
opens new avenues for the modelling and treatment of brain diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07287 
PMID: 18716623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):363-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07307. Epub 2008 Aug 20.

Structural insights into the evolutionary paths of oxylipin biosynthetic enzymes.

Lee DS(1), Nioche P, Hamberg M, Raman CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Texas Medical 
School, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):300-1.

The oxylipin pathway generates not only prostaglandin-like jasmonates but also
green leaf volatiles (GLVs), which confer characteristic aromas to fruits and
vegetables. Although allene oxide synthase (AOS) and hydroperoxide lyase are
atypical cytochrome P450 family members involved in the synthesis of jasmonates
and GLVs, respectively, it is unknown how these enzymes rearrange their
hydroperoxide substrates into different products. Here we present the crystal
structures of Arabidopsis thaliana AOS, free and in complex with substrate or
intermediate analogues. The structures reveal an unusual active site poised to
control the reactivity of an epoxyallylic radical and its cation by means of
interactions with an aromatic pi-system. Replacing the amino acid involved in
these steps by a non-polar residue markedly reduces AOS activity and,
unexpectedly, is both necessary and sufficient for converting AOS into a GLV
biosynthetic enzyme. Furthermore, by combining our structural data with
bioinformatic and biochemical analyses, we have discovered previously unknown
hydroperoxide lyase in plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria, AOS in coral, and
epoxyalcohol synthase in amphioxus. These results indicate that oxylipin
biosynthetic genes were present in the last common ancestor of plants and
animals, but were subsequently lost in all metazoan lineages except Placozoa,
Cnidaria and Cephalochordata.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07307 
PMID: 18716621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):387-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07235. Epub 2008 Aug 20.

Counterintuitive carbon-to-nutrient coupling in an Arctic pelagic ecosystem.

Thingstad TF(1), Bellerby RG, Bratbak G, Børsheim KY, Egge JK, Heldal M, Larsen
A, Neill C, Nejstgaard J, Norland S, Sandaa RA, Skjoldal EF, Tanaka T, Thyrhaug
R, Töpper B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Bergen, Jahnebakken 5PO Box 7800, 5020
Bergen, Norway. frede.thingstad@bio.uib.no

Predicting the ocean's role in the global carbon cycle requires an understanding 
of the stoichiometric coupling between carbon and growth-limiting elements in
biogeochemical processes. A recent addition to such knowledge is that the
carbon/nitrogen ratio of inorganic consumption and release of dissolved organic
matter may increase in a high-CO(2) world. This will, however, yield a negative
feedback on atmospheric CO(2) only if the extra organic material escapes
mineralization within the photic zone. Here we show, in the context of an Arctic 
pelagic ecosystem, how the fate and effects of added degradable organic carbon
depend critically on the state of the microbial food web. When bacterial growth
rate was limited by mineral nutrients, extra organic carbon accumulated in the
system. When bacteria were limited by organic carbon, however, addition of labile
dissolved organic carbon reduced phytoplankton biomass and activity and also the 
rate at which total organic carbon accumulated, explained as the result of
stimulated bacterial competition for mineral nutrients. This counterintuitive
'more organic carbon gives less organic carbon' effect was particularly
pronounced in diatom-dominated systems where the carbon/mineral nutrient ratio in
phytoplankton production was high. Our results highlight how descriptions of
present and future states of the oceanic carbon cycle require detailed
understanding of the stoichiometric coupling between carbon and growth-limiting
mineral nutrients in both autotrophic and heterotrophic processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07235 
PMID: 18716617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):396-400. doi: 10.1038/nature07208. Epub 2008 Aug
13.

Autophagy in thymic epithelium shapes the T-cell repertoire and is essential for 
tolerance.

Nedjic J(1), Aichinger M, Emmerich J, Mizushima N, Klein L.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, Doktor Bohr Gasse 7, 1030 Vienna,
Austria.

Recognition of self-antigen-derived epitopes presented by major
histocompatibility complex class II (MHC II) molecules on thymic epithelial cells
(TECs) is critical for the generation of a functional and self-tolerant CD4
T-cell repertoire. Whereas haematopoietic antigen-presenting cells generate
MHC-II-peptide complexes predominantly through the processing of endocytosed
polypeptides, it remains unknown if and how TECs use unconventional pathways of
antigen presentation. Here we address the role of macroautophagy, a process that 
has recently been shown to allow for endogenous MHC II loading, in T-cell
repertoire selection in the mouse thymus. In contrast to most other tissues, TECs
had a high constitutive level of autophagy. Genetic interference with autophagy
specifically in TECs led to altered selection of certain MHC-II-restricted T-cell
specificities and resulted in severe colitis and multi-organ inflammation. Our
findings indicate that autophagy focuses the MHC-II-peptide repertoire of TECs on
their intracellular milieu, which notably comprises a wide array of otherwise
strictly 'tissue-specific' self antigens. In doing so, it contributes to T-cell
selection and is essential for the generation of a self-tolerant T-cell
repertoire.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07208 
PMID: 18701890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):391-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07209. Epub 2008 Aug 13.

Platelet-derived growth factor-alpha receptor activation is required for human
cytomegalovirus infection.

Soroceanu L(1), Akhavan A, Cobbs CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, California Pacific Medical Center Research
Institute, Suite 220, 475 Brannan Street, San Francisco, California 94107, USA.

Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous human herpesvirus that can cause
life-threatening disease in the fetus and the immunocompromised host. Upon
attachment to the cell, the virus induces robust inflammatory, interferon- and
growth-factor-like signalling. The mechanisms facilitating viral entry and gene
expression are not clearly understood. Here we show that platelet-derived growth 
factor-alpha receptor (PDGFR-alpha) is specifically phosphorylated by both
laboratory and clinical isolates of HCMV in various human cell types, resulting
in activation of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI(3)K) signalling pathway. Upon 
stimulation by HCMV, tyrosine-phosphorylated PDGFR-alpha associated with the p85 
regulatory subunit of PI(3)K and induced protein kinase B (also known as Akt)
phosphorylation, similar to the genuine ligand, PDGF-AA. Cells in which
PDGFR-alpha was genetically deleted or functionally blocked were non-permissive
to HCMV entry, viral gene expression or infectious virus production.
Re-introducing human PDGFRA gene into knockout cells restored susceptibility to
viral entry and essential viral gene expression. Blockade of receptor function
with a humanized PDGFR-alpha blocking antibody (IMC-3G3) or targeted inhibition
of its kinase activity with a small molecule (Gleevec) completely inhibited HCMV 
viral internalization and gene expression in human epithelial, endothelial and
fibroblast cells. Viral entry in cells harbouring endogenous PDGFR-alpha was
competitively inhibited by pretreatment with PDGF-AA. We further demonstrate that
HCMV glycoprotein B directly interacts with PDGFR-alpha, resulting in receptor
tyrosine phosphorylation, and that glycoprotein B neutralizing antibodies inhibit
HCMV-induced PDGFR-alpha phosphorylation. Taken together, these data indicate
that PDGFR-alpha is a critical receptor required for HCMV infection, and thus a
target for novel anti-viral therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07209 
PMID: 18701889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07247. Epub 2008 Aug 11.

Three-dimensional optical metamaterial with a negative refractive index.

Valentine J(1), Zhang S, Zentgraf T, Ulin-Avila E, Genov DA, Bartal G, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)NSF Nano-scale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC), 3112 Etcheverry Hall,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):299-300.

Metamaterials are artificially engineered structures that have properties, such
as a negative refractive index, not attainable with naturally occurring
materials. Negative-index metamaterials (NIMs) were first demonstrated for
microwave frequencies, but it has been challenging to design NIMs for optical
frequencies and they have so far been limited to optically thin samples because
of significant fabrication challenges and strong energy dissipation in metals.
Such thin structures are analogous to a monolayer of atoms, making it difficult
to assign bulk properties such as the index of refraction. Negative refraction of
surface plasmons was recently demonstrated but was confined to a two-dimensional 
waveguide. Three-dimensional (3D) optical metamaterials have come into focus
recently, including the realization of negative refraction by using layered
semiconductor metamaterials and a 3D magnetic metamaterial in the infrared
frequencies; however, neither of these had a negative index of refraction. Here
we report a 3D optical metamaterial having negative refractive index with a very 
high figure of merit of 3.5 (that is, low loss). This metamaterial is made of
cascaded 'fishnet' structures, with a negative index existing over a broad
spectral range. Moreover, it can readily be probed from free space, making it
functional for optical devices. We construct a prism made of this optical NIM to 
demonstrate negative refractive index at optical frequencies, resulting
unambiguously from the negative phase evolution of the wave propagating inside
the metamaterial. Bulk optical metamaterials open up prospects for studies of 3D 
optical effects and applications associated with NIMs and zero-index materials
such as reversed Doppler effect, superlenses, optical tunnelling devices, compact
resonators and highly directional sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07247 
PMID: 18690249 


319. Nature. 2008 Sep 18;455(7211):421-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07186. Epub 2008 Aug 6.

Prolyl 4-hydroxylation regulates Argonaute 2 stability.

Qi HH(1), Ongusaha PP, Myllyharju J, Cheng D, Pakkanen O, Shi Y, Lee SW, Peng J, 
Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, New Research Building 854, 77
Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Human Argonaute (Ago) proteins are essential components of the RNA-induced
silencing complexes (RISCs). Argonaute 2 (Ago2) has a P-element-induced wimpy
testis (PIWI) domain, which folds like RNase H and is responsible for target RNA 
cleavage in RNA interference. Proteins such as Dicer, TRBP, MOV10, RHA, RCK/p54
and KIAA1093 associate with Ago proteins and participate in small RNA processing,
RISC loading and localization of Ago proteins in the cytoplasmic messenger RNA
processing bodies. However, mechanisms that regulate RNA interference remain
obscure. Here we report physical interactions between Ago2 and the
alpha-(P4H-alpha(I)) and beta-(P4H-beta) subunits of the type I collagen
prolyl-4-hydroxylase (C-P4H(I)). Mass spectrometric analysis identified
hydroxylation of the endogenous Ago2 at proline 700. In vitro, both Ago2 and Ago4
seem to be more efficiently hydroxylated than Ago1 and Ago3 by recombinant human 
C-P4H(I). Importantly, human cells depleted of P4H-alpha(I) or P4H-beta by short 
hairpin RNA and P4H-alpha(I) null mouse embryonic fibroblast cells showed reduced
stability of Ago2 and impaired short interfering RNA programmed RISC activity.
Furthermore, mutation of proline 700 to alanine also resulted in destabilization 
of Ago2, thus linking Ago2 P700 and hydroxylation at this residue to its
stability regulation. These findings identify hydroxylation as a
post-translational modification important for Ago2 stability and effective RNA
interference.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07186 
PMCID: PMC2661850
PMID: 18690212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):220-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07152.

Understanding the limits to generalizability of experimental evolutionary models.

Forde SE(1), Beardmore RE, Gudelj I, Arkin SS, Thompson JN, Hurst LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.

Given the difficulty of testing evolutionary and ecological theory in situ, in
vitro model systems are attractive alternatives; however, can we appraise whether
an experimental result is particular to the in vitro model, and, if so,
characterize the systems likely to behave differently and understand why? Here we
examine these issues using the relationship between phenotypic diversity and
resource input in the T7-Escherichia coli co-evolving system as a case history.
We establish a mathematical model of this interaction, framed as one instance of 
a super-class of host-parasite co-evolutionary models, and show that it captures 
experimental results. By tuning this model, we then ask how diversity as a
function of resource input could behave for alternative co-evolving partners (for
example, E. coli with lambda bacteriophages). In contrast to populations lacking 
bacteriophages, variation in diversity with differences in resources is always
found for co-evolving populations, supporting the geographic mosaic theory of
co-evolution. The form of this variation is not, however, universal. Details of
infectivity are pivotal: in T7-E. coli with a modified gene-for-gene interaction,
diversity is low at high resource input, whereas, for matching-allele
interactions, maximal diversity is found at high resource input. A combination of
in vitro systems and appropriately configured mathematical models is an effective
means to isolate results particular to the in vitro system, to characterize
systems likely to behave differently and to understand the biology underpinning
those alternatives.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07152 
PMID: 18784724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07232.

Upward migration of Vesuvius magma chamber over the past 20,000 years.

Scaillet B(1), Pichavant M, Cioni R.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS/INSU-Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans, 1a rue de la
Férollerie, 45071 Orléans, cedex 2, France. bscaille@cnrs-orleans.fr

Forecasting future eruptions of Vesuvius is an important challenge for
volcanologists, as its reawakening could threaten the lives of 700,000 people
living near the volcano. Critical to the evaluation of hazards associated with
the next eruption is the estimation of the depth of the magma reservoir, one of
the main parameters controlling magma properties and eruptive style. Petrological
studies have indicated that during past activity, magma chambers were at depths
between 3 and 16 km (refs 3-7). Geophysical surveys have imaged some levels of
seismic attenuation, the shallowest of which lies at 8-9 km depth, and these have
been tentatively interpreted as levels of preferential magma accumulation. By
using experimental phase equilibria, carried out on material from four main
explosive events at Vesuvius, we show here that the reservoirs that fed the
eruptive activity migrated from 7-8 km to 3-4 km depth between the ad 79
(Pompeii) and ad 472 (Pollena) events. If data from the Pomici di Base event 18.5
kyr ago and the 1944 Vesuvius eruption are included, the total upward migration
of the reservoir amounts to 9-11 km. The change of preferential magma ponding
levels in the upper crust can be attributed to differences in the volatile
content and buoyancy of ascending magmas, as well as to changes in local stress
field following either caldera formation or volcano spreading. Reservoir
migration, and the possible influence on feeding rates, should be integrated into
the parameters used for defining expected eruptive scenarios at Vesuvius.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07232 
PMID: 18784723 


322. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):213-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07276.

Old-growth forests as global carbon sinks.

Luyssaert S(1), Schulze ED, Börner A, Knohl A, Hessenmöller D, Law BE, Ciais P,
Grace J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Antwerp, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium.
sebastiaan.luyssaert@ua.ac.be

Old-growth forests remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere at rates that vary
with climate and nitrogen deposition. The sequestered carbon dioxide is stored in
live woody tissues and slowly decomposing organic matter in litter and soil.
Old-growth forests therefore serve as a global carbon dioxide sink, but they are 
not protected by international treaties, because it is generally thought that
ageing forests cease to accumulate carbon. Here we report a search of literature 
and databases for forest carbon-flux estimates. We find that in forests between
15 and 800 years of age, net ecosystem productivity (the net carbon balance of
the forest including soils) is usually positive. Our results demonstrate that
old-growth forests can continue to accumulate carbon, contrary to the
long-standing view that they are carbon neutral. Over 30 per cent of the global
forest area is unmanaged primary forest, and this area contains the remaining
old-growth forests. Half of the primary forests (6 x 10(8) hectares) are located 
in the boreal and temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere. On the basis of
our analysis, these forests alone sequester about 1.3 +/- 0.5 gigatonnes of
carbon per year. Thus, our findings suggest that 15 per cent of the global forest
area, which is currently not considered when offsetting increasing atmospheric
carbon dioxide concentrations, provides at least 10 per cent of the global net
ecosystem productivity. Old-growth forests accumulate carbon for centuries and
contain large quantities of it. We expect, however, that much of this carbon,
even soil carbon, will move back to the atmosphere if these forests are
disturbed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07276 
PMID: 18784722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):208-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07226.

The transpiration of water at negative pressures in a synthetic tree.

Wheeler TD(1), Stroock AD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):181.

Plant scientists believe that transpiration-the motion of water from the soil,
through a vascular plant, and into the air-occurs by a passive, wicking
mechanism. This mechanism is described by the cohesion-tension theory: loss of
water by evaporation reduces the pressure of the liquid water within the leaf
relative to atmospheric pressure; this reduced pressure pulls liquid water out of
the soil and up the xylem to maintain hydration. Strikingly, the absolute
pressure of the water within the xylem is often negative, such that the liquid is
under tension and is thermodynamically metastable with respect to the vapour
phase. Qualitatively, this mechanism is the same as that which drives fluid
through the synthetic wicks that are key elements in technologies for heat
transfer, fuel cells and portable chemical systems. Quantitatively, the
differences in pressure generated in plants to drive flow can be more than a
hundredfold larger than those generated in synthetic wicks. Here we present the
design and operation of a microfluidic system formed in a synthetic hydrogel.
This synthetic 'tree' captures the main attributes of transpiration in plants:
transduction of subsaturation in the vapour phase of water into negative
pressures in the liquid phase, stabilization and flow of liquid water at large
negative pressures (-1.0 MPa or lower), continuous heat transfer with the
evaporation of liquid water at negative pressure, and continuous extraction of
liquid water from subsaturated sources. This development opens the opportunity
for technological uses of water under tension and for new experimental studies of
the liquid state of water.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07226 
PMID: 18784721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):204-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07244.

A Mott insulator of fermionic atoms in an optical lattice.

Jördens R(1), Strohmaier N, Günter K, Moritz H, Esslinger T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Electronics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Strong interactions between electrons in a solid material can lead to surprising 
properties. A prime example is the Mott insulator, in which suppression of
conductivity occurs as a result of interactions rather than a filled Bloch band. 
Proximity to the Mott insulating phase in fermionic systems is the origin of many
intriguing phenomena in condensed matter physics, most notably high-temperature
superconductivity. The Hubbard model, which encompasses the essential physics of 
the Mott insulator, also applies to quantum gases trapped in an optical lattice. 
It is therefore now possible to access this regime with tools developed in atomic
physics. However, an atomic Mott insulator has so far been realized only with a
gas of bosons, which lack the rich and peculiar nature of fermions. Here we
report the formation of a Mott insulator of a repulsively interacting
two-component Fermi gas in an optical lattice. It is identified by three
features: a drastic suppression of doubly occupied lattice sites, a strong
reduction of the compressibility inferred from the response of double occupancy
to an increase in atom number, and the appearance of a gapped mode in the
excitation spectrum. Direct control of the interaction strength allows us to
compare the Mott insulating regime and the non-interacting regime without
changing tunnel-coupling or confinement. Our results pave the way for further
studies of the Mott insulator, including spin-ordering and ultimately the
question of d-wave superfluidity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07244 
PMID: 18784720 


325. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):201-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07269.

A blast wave from the 1843 eruption of eta Carinae.

Smith N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, University of California, 601 Campbell Hall, Berkeley,
California 94720-3411, USA. nathans@astro.berkeley.edu

Very massive stars shed much of their mass in violent precursor eruptions as
luminous blue variables (LBVs) before reaching their most likely end as
supernovae, but the cause of LBV eruptions is unknown. The nineteenth-century
eruption of eta Carinae, the prototype of these events, ejected about 12 solar
masses at speeds of 650 km s(-1), with a kinetic energy of almost 10(50) erg
(ref. 4). Some faster material with speeds up to 1,000-2,000 km s(-1) had
previously been reported but its full distribution was unknown. Here I report
observations of much faster material with speeds up to 3,500-6,000 km s(-1),
reaching farther from the star than the fastest material in previous reports.
This fast material roughly doubles the kinetic energy of the nineteenth-century
event and suggests that it released a blast wave now propagating ahead of the
massive ejecta. As a result, eta Carinae's outer shell now mimics a low-energy
supernova remnant. The eruption has usually been discussed in terms of an extreme
wind driven by the star's luminosity, but the fast material reported here
indicates that it may have been powered by a deep-seated explosion rivalling a
supernova, perhaps triggered by the pulsational pair instability. This may alter 
interpretations of similar events seen in other galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07269 
PMID: 18784719 


326. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):183-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07270.

Broadband observations of the naked-eye gamma-ray burst GRB 080319B.

Racusin JL(1), Karpov SV, Sokolowski M, Granot J, Wu XF, Pal'shin V, Covino S,
van der Horst AJ, Oates SR, Schady P, Smith RJ, Cummings J, Starling RL,
Piotrowski LW, Zhang B, Evans PA, Holland ST, Malek K, Page MT, Vetere L,
Margutti R, Guidorzi C, Kamble AP, Curran PA, Beardmore A, Kouveliotou C,
Mankiewicz L, Melandri A, O'Brien PT, Page KL, Piran T, Tanvir NR, Wrochna G,
Aptekar RL, Barthelmy S, Bartolini C, Beskin GM, Bondar S, Bremer M, Campana S,
Castro-Tirado A, Cucchiara A, Cwiok M, D'Avanzo P, D'Elia V, Valle MD, de Ugarte 
Postigo A, Dominik W, Falcone A, Fiore F, Fox DB, Frederiks DD, Fruchter AS,
Fugazza D, Garrett MA, Gehrels N, Golenetskii S, Gomboc A, Gorosabel J, Greco G, 
Guarnieri A, Immler S, Jelinek M, Kasprowicz G, La Parola V, Levan AJ, Mangano V,
Mazets EP, Molinari E, Moretti A, Nawrocki K, Oleynik PP, Osborne JP, Pagani C,
Pandey SB, Paragi Z, Perri M, Piccioni A, Ramirez-Ruiz E, Roming PW, Steele IA,
Strom RG, Testa V, Tosti G, Ulanov MV, Wiersema K, Wijers RA, Winters JM,
Zarnecki AF, Zerbi F, Mészáros P, Chincarini G, Burrows DN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, 525 Davey Laboratory, Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA. racusin@astro.psu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):177-8.

Long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) release copious amounts of energy across
the entire electromagnetic spectrum, and so provide a window into the process of 
black hole formation from the collapse of massive stars. Previous early optical
observations of even the most exceptional GRBs (990123 and 030329) lacked both
the temporal resolution to probe the optical flash in detail and the accuracy
needed to trace the transition from the prompt emission within the outflow to
external shocks caused by interaction with the progenitor environment. Here we
report observations of the extraordinarily bright prompt optical and gamma-ray
emission of GRB 080319B that provide diagnostics within seconds of its formation,
followed by broadband observations of the afterglow decay that continued for
weeks. We show that the prompt emission stems from a single physical region,
implying an extremely relativistic outflow that propagates within the narrow
inner core of a two-component jet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07270 
PMID: 18784718 


327. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):E3-4; discussion E4-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07258.

Arctic warming aloft is data set dependent.

Bitz CM(1), Fu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Atmospheric Science Department, 408 Atmospheric Sciences and Geophysics Hall, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
bitz@atmos.washington.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):53-6.

Arctic sea ice and snow on land have retreated polewards at an alarming pace in
the past few decades. Such retreat locally amplifies surface warming through a
positive feedback, which causes the Arctic surface to warm faster than the rest
of the globe. In contrast, ice and snow retreat causes little warming in the
atmosphere above when the stable winter atmosphere inhibits vertical heat
exchange. We therefore find surprising the recent report by Graversen et al. in
which they claim that recent Arctic atmospheric warming extends far deeper into
the atmosphere than expected, and can even exceed the surface warming during the 
polar night. Using a different data set, we show that there is much less warming 
aloft in winter, consistent with the recent retreat of ice and snow, as well as
recent changes in atmospheric heat transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07258 
PMID: 18784661 


328. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):E2-3; discussion E4-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07257.

Recent Arctic warming vertical structure contested.

Grant AN(1), Brönnimann S, Haimberger L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science, ETH Zurich, Universitätstrasse 
16, CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland. andrea.grant@env.ethz.ch

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):53-6.

The vertical structure of the recent Arctic warming contains information about
the processes governing Arctic climate trends. Graversen et al. argue, on the
basis of ERA-40 reanalysis data, that a distinct maximum in 1979-2001 warm-season
(April-October) Arctic temperature trends appears around 3 km above ground. Here 
we show that this is due to the heterogeneous nature of the data source, which
incorporates information from satellites and radiosondes. Radiosonde data alone
suggest the warming was strongest near ground.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07257 
PMID: 18784660 


329. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):E1-2; discussion E4-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07256.

Arctic tropospheric warming amplification?

Thorne PW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Met Office Hadley Centre, FitzRoy Road, Exeter EX1 3PB, UK.
peter.thorne@metoffice.gov.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):53-6.

Relative rates of temperature change between the troposphere and surface, and the
mechanisms that produce these changes, have long been a contentious issue.
Graversen et al., predicated upon the ERA-40 reanalysis, report polar
tropospheric amplification of surface warming and attempt to explain this finding
dynamically. Here we show (1) that data from satellites and weather balloons
indicate that the ERA-40 trends are increasingly unrealistic polewards of 62
degrees N; (2) that the two other reanalyses considered exhibit very different
polar trends; and (3) that the vertical profile of polar trends in ERA-40 is
unrealistic, particularly above the troposphere. These quasi-independent strands 
of evidence imply that the pattern of warming in the Arctic troposphere is highly
unlikely to be as given in ERA-40 and as reported by Graversen et al..

DOI: 10.1038/nature07256 
PMID: 18784659 


330. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):251-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07217.

Heterochromatin links to centromeric protection by recruiting shugoshin.

Yamagishi Y(1), Sakuno T, Shimura M, Watanabe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromosome Dynamics, Institute of Molecular and Cellular
Biosciences, University of Tokyo, Yayoi, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2018 Oct 1;:.

The centromere of a chromosome is composed mainly of two domains, a kinetochore
assembling core centromere and peri-centromeric heterochromatin regions. The
crucial role of centromeric heterochromatin is still unknown, because even in
simpler unicellular organisms such as the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces
pombe, the heterochromatin protein Swi6 (HP1 homologue) has several functions at 
centromeres, including silencing gene expression and recombination, enriching
cohesin, promoting kinetochore assembly, and, ultimately, preventing erroneous
microtubule attachment to the kinetochores. Here we show that the requirement of 
heterochromatin for mitotic chromosome segregation is largely replaced by
forcibly enriching cohesin at centromeres in fission yeast. However, this
enrichment of cohesin is not sufficient to replace the meiotic requirement for
heterochromatin. We find that the heterochromatin protein Swi6 associates
directly with meiosis-specific shugoshin Sgo1, a protector of cohesin at
centromeres. A point mutation of Sgo1 (V242E), which abolishes the interaction
with Swi6, impairs the centromeric localization and function of Sgo1. The forced 
centromeric localization of Sgo1 restores proper meiotic chromosome segregation
in swi6 cells. We also show that the direct link between HP1 and shugoshin is
conserved in human cells. Taken together, our findings suggest that the
recruitment of shugoshin is the important primary role for centromeric
heterochromatin in ensuring eukaryotic chromosome segregation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07217 
PMID: 18716626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07210.

T-cell-expressed proprotein convertase furin is essential for maintenance of
peripheral immune tolerance.

Pesu M(1), Watford WT, Wei L, Xu L, Fuss I, Strober W, Andersson J, Shevach EM,
Quezado M, Bouladoux N, Roebroek A, Belkaid Y, Creemers J, O'Shea JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunology and Inflammation Branch, National Institute for
Arthritis, Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. pesum@mail.nih.gov

Furin is one of seven proprotein convertase family members that promote
proteolytic maturation of proproteins. It is induced in activated T cells and is 
reported to process a variety of substrates including the anti-inflammatory
cytokine transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 (refs 2-4), but the non-redundant
functions of furin versus other proprotein convertases in T cells are unclear.
Here we show that conditional deletion of furin in T cells allowed for normal
T-cell development but impaired the function of regulatory and effector T cells, 
which produced less TGF-beta1. Furin-deficient T regulatory (Treg) cells were
less protective in a T-cell transfer colitis model and failed to induce Foxp3 in 
normal T cells. Additionally, furin-deficient effector cells were inherently
over-active and were resistant to suppressive activity of wild-type Treg cells.
Thus, our results indicate that furin is indispensable in maintaining peripheral 
tolerance, which is due, at least in part, to its non-redundant, essential
function in regulating TGF-beta1 production. Targeting furin has emerged as a
strategy in malignant and infectious disease. Our results suggest that inhibiting
furin might activate immune responses, but may result in a breakdown in
peripheral tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07210 
PMCID: PMC2758057
PMID: 18701887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):242-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07207.

RNA interference screen for human genes associated with West Nile virus
infection.

Krishnan MN(1), Ng A, Sukumaran B, Gilfoy FD, Uchil PD, Sultana H, Brass AL,
Adametz R, Tsui M, Qian F, Montgomery RR, Lev S, Mason PW, Koski RA, Elledge SJ, 
Xavier RJ, Agaisse H, Fikrig E.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticutt 06520-8031, USA.

West Nile virus (WNV), and related flaviviruses such as tick-borne encephalitis, 
Japanese encephalitis, yellow fever and dengue viruses, constitute a significant 
global human health problem. However, our understanding of the molecular
interaction of such flaviviruses with mammalian host cells is limited. WNV
encodes only 10 proteins, implying that it may use many cellular proteins for
infection. WNV enters the cytoplasm through pH-dependent endocytosis, undergoes
cycles of translation and replication, assembles progeny virions in association
with endoplasmic reticulum, and exits along the secretory pathway. RNA
interference (RNAi) presents a powerful forward genetics approach to dissect
virus-host cell interactions. Here we report the identification of 305 host
proteins that affect WNV infection, using a human-genome-wide RNAi screen.
Functional clustering of the genes revealed a complex dependence of this virus on
host cell physiology, requiring a wide variety of molecules and cellular pathways
for successful infection. We further demonstrate a requirement for the ubiquitin 
ligase CBLL1 in WNV internalization, a post-entry role for the
endoplasmic-reticulum-associated degradation pathway in viral infection, and the 
monocarboxylic acid transporter MCT4 as a viral replication resistance factor. By
extending this study to dengue virus, we show that flaviviruses have both
overlapping and unique interaction strategies with host cells. This study
provides a comprehensive molecular portrait of WNV-human cell interactions that
forms a model for understanding single plus-stranded RNA virus infection, and
reveals potential antiviral targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07207 
PMCID: PMC3136529
PMID: 18690214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):227-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07200.

Neural correlates, computation and behavioural impact of decision confidence.

Kepecs A(1), Uchida N, Zariwala HA, Mainen ZF.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA. kepecs@cshl.edu

Humans and other animals must often make decisions on the basis of imperfect
evidence. Statisticians use measures such as P values to assign degrees of
confidence to propositions, but little is known about how the brain computes
confidence estimates about decisions. We explored this issue using behavioural
analysis and neural recordings in rats in combination with computational
modelling. Subjects were trained to perform an odour categorization task that
allowed decision confidence to be manipulated by varying the distance of the test
stimulus to the category boundary. To understand how confidence could be computed
along with the choice itself, using standard models of decision-making, we
defined a simple measure that quantified the quality of the evidence contributing
to a particular decision. Here we show that the firing rates of many single
neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex match closely to the predictions of
confidence models and cannot be readily explained by alternative mechanisms, such
as learning stimulus-outcome associations. Moreover, when tested using a delayed 
reward version of the task, we found that rats' willingness to wait for rewards
increased with confidence, as predicted by the theoretical model. These results
indicate that confidence estimates, previously suggested to require
'metacognition' and conscious awareness are available even in the rodent brain,
can be computed with relatively simple operations, and can drive adaptive
behaviour. We suggest that confidence estimation may be a fundamental and
ubiquitous component of decision-making.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07200 
PMID: 18690210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):189-94. doi: 10.1038/nature07271.

Strigolactone inhibition of shoot branching.

Gomez-Roldan V(1), Fermas S, Brewer PB, Puech-Pagès V, Dun EA, Pillot JP, Letisse
F, Matusova R, Danoun S, Portais JC, Bouwmeester H, Bécard G, Beveridge CA,
Rameau C, Rochange SF.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS, CNRS, Surface Cellulaire et Signalisation chez
les Végétaux, 24 chemin de Borde Rouge, F-31326 Castanet-Tolosan, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):176-7.

A carotenoid-derived hormonal signal that inhibits shoot branching in plants has 
long escaped identification. Strigolactones are compounds thought to be derived
from carotenoids and are known to trigger the germination of parasitic plant
seeds and stimulate symbiotic fungi. Here we present evidence that carotenoid
cleavage dioxygenase 8 shoot branching mutants of pea are strigolactone deficient
and that strigolactone application restores the wild-type branching phenotype to 
ccd8 mutants. Moreover, we show that other branching mutants previously
characterized as lacking a response to the branching inhibition signal also lack 
strigolactone response, and are not deficient in strigolactones. These responses 
are conserved in Arabidopsis. In agreement with the expected properties of the
hormonal signal, exogenous strigolactone can be transported in shoots and act at 
low concentrations. We suggest that endogenous strigolactones or related
compounds inhibit shoot branching in plants. Furthermore, ccd8 mutants
demonstrate the diverse effects of strigolactones in shoot branching, mycorrhizal
symbiosis and parasitic weed interaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07271 
PMID: 18690209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):224-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07236.

High bacterivory by the smallest phytoplankton in the North Atlantic Ocean.

Zubkov MV(1), Tarran GA.

Author information: 
(1)National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, Hampshire SO14 3ZH, UK.
mvz@noc.soton.ac.uk

Planktonic algae <5 m in size are major fixers of inorganic carbon in the ocean. 
They dominate phytoplankton biomass in post-bloom, stratified oceanic temperate
waters. Traditionally, large and small algae are viewed as having a critical
growth dependence on inorganic nutrients, which the latter can better acquire at 
lower ambient concentrations owing to their higher surface area to volume ratios.
Nonetheless, recent phosphate tracer experiments in the oligotrophic ocean have
suggested that small algae obtain inorganic phosphate indirectly, possibly
through feeding on bacterioplankton. There have been numerous microscopy-based
studies of algae feeding mixotrophically in the laboratory and field as well as
mathematical modelling of the ecological importance of mixotrophy. However,
because of methodological limitations there has not been a direct comparison of
obligate heterotrophic and mixotrophic bacterivory. Here we present direct
evidence that small algae carry out 40-95% of the bacterivory in the euphotic
layer of the temperate North Atlantic Ocean in summer. A similar range of 37-70% 
was determined in the surface waters of the tropical North-East Atlantic Ocean,
suggesting the global significance of mixotrophy. This finding reveals that even 
the smallest algae have less dependence on dissolved inorganic nutrients than
previously thought, obtaining a quarter of their biomass from bacterivory. This
has important implications for how we perceive nutrient acquisition and
limitation of carbon-fixing protists as well as control of bacterioplankton in
the ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07236 
PMID: 18690208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):195-200. doi: 10.1038/nature07272.

Inhibition of shoot branching by new terpenoid plant hormones.

Umehara M(1), Hanada A, Yoshida S, Akiyama K, Arite T, Takeda-Kamiya N, Magome H,
Kamiya Y, Shirasu K, Yoneyama K, Kyozuka J, Yamaguchi S.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Plant Science Center, Tsurumi, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):176-7.

Shoot branching is a major determinant of plant architecture and is highly
regulated by endogenous and environmental cues. Two classes of hormones, auxin
and cytokinin, have long been known to have an important involvement in
controlling shoot branching. Previous studies using a series of mutants with
enhanced shoot branching suggested the existence of a third class of hormone(s)
that is derived from carotenoids, but its chemical identity has been unknown.
Here we show that levels of strigolactones, a group of terpenoid lactones, are
significantly reduced in some of the branching mutants. Furthermore, application 
of strigolactones inhibits shoot branching in these mutants. Strigolactones were 
previously found in root exudates acting as communication chemicals with
parasitic weeds and symbiotic arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Thus, we propose that
strigolactones act as a new hormone class-or their biosynthetic precursors-in
regulating above-ground plant architecture, and also have a function in
underground communication with other neighbouring organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07272 
PMID: 18690207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):232-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07229.

Large recurrent microdeletions associated with schizophrenia.

Stefansson H(1), Rujescu D, Cichon S, Pietiläinen OP, Ingason A, Steinberg S,
Fossdal R, Sigurdsson E, Sigmundsson T, Buizer-Voskamp JE, Hansen T, Jakobsen KD,
Muglia P, Francks C, Matthews PM, Gylfason A, Halldorsson BV, Gudbjartsson D,
Thorgeirsson TE, Sigurdsson A, Jonasdottir A, Jonasdottir A, Bjornsson A,
Mattiasdottir S, Blondal T, Haraldsson M, Magnusdottir BB, Giegling I, Möller HJ,
Hartmann A, Shianna KV, Ge D, Need AC, Crombie C, Fraser G, Walker N, Lonnqvist
J, Suvisaari J, Tuulio-Henriksson A, Paunio T, Toulopoulou T, Bramon E, Di Forti 
M, Murray R, Ruggeri M, Vassos E, Tosato S, Walshe M, Li T, Vasilescu C,
Mühleisen TW, Wang AG, Ullum H, Djurovic S, Melle I, Olesen J, Kiemeney LA,
Franke B; GROUP, Sabatti C, Freimer NB, Gulcher JR, Thorsteinsdottir U, Kong A,
Andreassen OA, Ophoff RA, Georgi A, Rietschel M, Werge T, Petursson H, Goldstein 
DB, Nöthen MM, Peltonen L, Collier DA, St Clair D, Stefansson K.

Collaborators: Kahn RS, Linszen DH, van Os J, Wiersma D, Bruggeman R, Cahn W, de 
Haan L, Krabbendam L, Myin-Germeys I.

Author information: 
(1)CNS Division, deCODE genetics, Sturlugata 8, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):178-9.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2008 Sep;9(9):654.

Reduced fecundity, associated with severe mental disorders, places negative
selection pressure on risk alleles and may explain, in part, why common variants 
have not been found that confer risk of disorders such as autism, schizophrenia
and mental retardation. Thus, rare variants may account for a larger fraction of 
the overall genetic risk than previously assumed. In contrast to rare single
nucleotide mutations, rare copy number variations (CNVs) can be detected using
genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism arrays. This has led to the
identification of CNVs associated with mental retardation and autism. In a
genome-wide search for CNVs associating with schizophrenia, we used a
population-based sample to identify de novo CNVs by analysing 9,878 transmissions
from parents to offspring. The 66 de novo CNVs identified were tested for
association in a sample of 1,433 schizophrenia cases and 33,250 controls. Three
deletions at 1q21.1, 15q11.2 and 15q13.3 showing nominal association with
schizophrenia in the first sample (phase I) were followed up in a second sample
of 3,285 cases and 7,951 controls (phase II). All three deletions significantly
associate with schizophrenia and related psychoses in the combined sample. The
identification of these rare, recurrent risk variants, having occurred
independently in multiple founders and being subject to negative selection, is
important in itself. CNV analysis may also point the way to the identification of
additional and more prevalent risk variants in genes and pathways involved in
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07229 
PMCID: PMC2687075
PMID: 18668039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):237-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07239. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

Rare chromosomal deletions and duplications increase risk of schizophrenia.

International Schizophrenia Consortium.

Collaborators: Stone JL, O'Donovan MC, Gurling H, Kirov GK, Blackwood DH, Corvin 
A, Craddock NJ, Gill M, Hultman CM, Lichtenstein P, McQuillin A, Pato CN,
Ruderfer DM, Owen MJ, St Clair D, Sullivan PF, Sklar P, Purcell SM, Stone JL,
Ruderfer DM, Korn J, Kirov GK, Macgregor S, McQuillin A, Morris DW, O'Dushlaine
CT, Daly MJ, Visscher PM, Holmans PA, O'Donovan MC, Sullivan PF, Sklar P, Purcell
SM, Gurling H, Corvin A, Blackwood DH, Craddock NJ, Gill M, Hultman CM, Kirov GK,
Lichtenstein P, McQuillin A, O'Donovan MC, Owen MJ, Pato CN, Purcell SM, Scolnick
EM, St Clair D, Stone JL, Sullivan PF, Sklar P, O'Donovan MC, Kirov GK, Craddock 
NJ, Holmans PA, Williams NM, Georgieva L, Nikolov I, Norton N, Williams H,
Toncheva D, Milanova V, Owen MJ, Hultman CM, Lichtenstein P, Thelander EF,
Sullivan P, Morris DW, O'Dushlaine CT, Kenny E, Waddington JL, Gill M, Corvin A, 
McQuillin A, Choudhury K, Datta S, Pimm J, Thirumalai S, Puri V, Krasucki R,
Lawrence J, Quested D, Bass N, Curtis D, Gurling H, Crombie C, Fraser G, Kwan SL,
Walker N, St Clair D, Blackwood DH, Muir WJ, McGhee KA, Pickard B, Malloy P,
Maclean AW, Van Beck M, Visscher PM, Macgregor S, Pato MT, Medeiros H, Middleton 
F, Carvalho C, Morley C, Fanous A, Conti D, Knowles JA, Ferreira CP, Macedo A,
Azevedo MH, Pato CN, Stone JL, Ruderfer DM, Korn J, McCarroll SA, Daly M, Purcell
SM, Sklar P, Purcell SM, Stone JL, Chambert K, Ruderfer DM, Korn J, McCarroll SA,
Gates C, Daly MJ, Scolnick EM, Sklar P.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2008 Sep;9(9):654.
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):178-9.

Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder marked by hallucinations, delusions,
cognitive deficits and apathy, with a heritability estimated at 73-90% (ref. 1). 
Inheritance patterns are complex, and the number and type of genetic variants
involved are not understood. Copy number variants (CNVs) have been identified in 
individual patients with schizophrenia and also in neurodevelopmental disorders, 
but large-scale genome-wide surveys have not been performed. Here we report a
genome-wide survey of rare CNVs in 3,391 patients with schizophrenia and 3,181
ancestrally matched controls, using high-density microarrays. For CNVs that were 
observed in less than 1% of the sample and were more than 100 kilobases in
length, the total burden is increased 1.15-fold in patients with schizophrenia in
comparison with controls. This effect was more pronounced for rarer,
single-occurrence CNVs and for those that involved genes as opposed to those that
did not. As expected, deletions were found within the region critical for
velo-cardio-facial syndrome, which includes psychotic symptoms in 30% of
patients. Associations with schizophrenia were also found for large deletions on 
chromosome 15q13.3 and 1q21.1. These associations have not previously been
reported, and they remained significant after genome-wide correction. Our results
provide strong support for a model of schizophrenia pathogenesis that includes
the effects of multiple rare structural variants, both genome-wide and at
specific loci.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07239 
PMCID: PMC3912847
PMID: 18668038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07087.

Multimodal warning signals for a multiple predator world.

Ratcliffe JM(1), Nydam ML.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sound Communication, Institute of Biology, University of Southern
Denmark, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark. jmr@biology.sdu.dk

Aposematism is an anti-predator defence, dependent on a predator's ability to
associate unprofitable prey with a prey-borne signal. Multimodal signals should
vary in efficacy according to the sensory systems of different predators;
however, until now, the impact of multiple predator classes on the evolution of
these signals had not been investigated. Here, using a community-level molecular 
phylogeny to generate phylogenetically independent contrasts, we show that
warning signals of tiger moths vary according to the seasonal and daily activity 
patterns of birds and bats-predators with divergent sensory capacities. Many
tiger moths advertise chemical defence using conspicuous colouration and/or
ultrasonic clicks. During spring, when birds are active and bats less so, we
found that tiger moths did not produce ultrasonic clicks. Throughout both spring 
and summer, tiger moths most active during the day were visually conspicuous.
Those species emerging later in the season produced ultrasonic clicks; those that
were most nocturnal were visually cryptic. Our results indicate that selective
pressures from multiple predator classes have distinct roles in the evolution of 
multimodal warning displays now effective against a single predator class. We
also suggest that the evolution of acoustic warning signals may lack the
theoretical difficulties associated with the origination of conspicuous
colouration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07087 
PMID: 18769439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07234.

The increasing intensity of the strongest tropical cyclones.

Elsner JB(1), Kossin JP, Jagger TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography, Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida 32306,
USA. jelsner@fsu.edu

Atlantic tropical cyclones are getting stronger on average, with a 30-year trend 
that has been related to an increase in ocean temperatures over the Atlantic
Ocean and elsewhere. Over the rest of the tropics, however, possible trends in
tropical cyclone intensity are less obvious, owing to the unreliability and
incompleteness of the observational record and to a restricted focus, in previous
trend analyses, on changes in average intensity. Here we overcome these two
limitations by examining trends in the upper quantiles of per-cyclone maximum
wind speeds (that is, the maximum intensities that cyclones achieve during their 
lifetimes), estimated from homogeneous data derived from an archive of satellite 
records. We find significant upward trends for wind speed quantiles above the
70th percentile, with trends as high as 0.3 +/- 0.09 m s(-1) yr(-1) (s.e.) for
the strongest cyclones. We note separate upward trends in the estimated
lifetime-maximum wind speeds of the very strongest tropical cyclones (99th
percentile) over each ocean basin, with the largest increase at this quantile
occurring over the North Atlantic, although not all basins show statistically
significant increases. Our results are qualitatively consistent with the
hypothesis that as the seas warm, the ocean has more energy to convert to
tropical cyclone wind.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07234 
PMID: 18769438 


341. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):89-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07252.

Interaction between liquid water and hydroxide revealed by core-hole
de-excitation.

Aziz EF(1), Ottosson N, Faubel M, Hertel IV, Winter B.

Author information: 
(1)BESSY GmbH, Albert-Einstein-Strasse 15, D-12489 Berlin, Germany.

The hydroxide ion plays an important role in many chemical and biochemical
processes in aqueous solution. But our molecular-level understanding of its
unusual and fast transport in water, and of the solvation patterns that allow
fast transport, is far from complete. One proposal seeks to explain the
properties and behaviour of the hydroxide ion by essentially regarding it as a
water molecule that is missing a proton, and by inferring transport mechanisms
and hydration structures from those of the excess proton. A competing proposal
invokes instead unique and interchanging hydroxide hydration complexes,
particularly the hypercoordinated OH(-)(H(2)O)(4) species and tri-coordinated
OH(-)(H(2)O)(3) that can form a transient hydrogen bond between the H atom of the
OH(-) and a neighbouring water molecule. Here we report measurements of
core-level photoelectron emission and intermolecular Coulombic decay for an
aqueous hydroxide solution, which show that the hydrated hydroxide ion is capable
of transiently donating a hydrogen bond to surrounding water molecules. In
agreement with recent experimental studies of hydroxide solutions, our finding
thus supports the notion that the hydration structure of the hydroxide ion cannot
be inferred from that of the hydrated excess proton.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07252 
PMID: 18769437 


342. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07197.

Nanoscale double emulsions stabilized by single-component block copolypeptides.

Hanson JA(1), Chang CB, Graves SM, Li Z, Mason TG, Deming TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering Department, University of California, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA.

Water-in-oil-in-water emulsions are examples of double emulsions, in which
dispersions of small water droplets within larger oil droplets are themselves
dispersed in a continuous aqueous phase. Emulsions occur in many forms of
processing and are used extensively by the foods, cosmetics and coatings
industries. Because of their compartmentalized internal structure, double
emulsions can provide advantages over simple oil-in-water emulsions for
encapsulation, such as the ability to carry both polar and non-polar cargos, and 
improved control over release of therapeutic molecules. The preparation of double
emulsions typically requires mixtures of surfactants for stability; the formation
of double nanoemulsions, where both inner and outer droplets are under 100 nm,
has not yet been achieved. Here we show that water-in-oil-in-water double
emulsions can be prepared in a simple process and stabilized over many months
using single-component, synthetic amphiphilic diblock copolypeptide surfactants. 
These surfactants even stabilize droplets subjected to extreme flow, leading to
direct, mass production of robust double nanoemulsions that are amenable to
nanostructured encapsulation applications in foods, cosmetics and drug delivery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07197 
PMID: 18769436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07263.

Electronic structure of the iron-based superconductor LaOFeP.

Lu DH(1), Yi M, Mo SK, Erickson AS, Analytis J, Chu JH, Singh DJ, Hussain Z,
Geballe TH, Fisher IR, Shen ZX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305, USA. dhlu@slac.stanford.edu

The recent discovery of superconductivity in the iron oxypnictide family of
compounds has generated intense interest. The layered crystal structure with
transition-metal ions in planar square-lattice form and the discovery of
spin-density-wave order near 130 K (refs 10, 11) seem to hint at a strong
similarity with the copper oxide superconductors. An important current issue is
the nature of the ground state of the parent compounds. Two distinct classes of
theories, distinguished by the underlying band structure, have been put forward: 
a local-moment antiferromagnetic ground state in the strong-coupling approach,
and an itinerant ground state in the weak-coupling approach. The first approach
stresses on-site correlations, proximity to a Mott-insulating state and, thus,
the resemblance to the high-transition-temperature copper oxides, whereas the
second approach emphasizes the itinerant-electron physics and the interplay
between the competing ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic fluctuations. The
debate over the two approaches is partly due to the lack of conclusive
experimental information on the electronic structures. Here we report
angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) of LaOFeP (superconducting
transition temperature, T(c) = 5.9 K), the first-reported iron-based
superconductor. Our results favour the itinerant ground state, albeit with band
renormalization. In addition, our data reveal important differences between these
and copper-based superconductors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07263 
PMID: 18769435 


344. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):78-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07245.

Event-horizon-scale structure in the supermassive black hole candidate at the
Galactic Centre.

Doeleman SS(1), Weintroub J, Rogers AE, Plambeck R, Freund R, Tilanus RP, Friberg
P, Ziurys LM, Moran JM, Corey B, Young KH, Smythe DL, Titus M, Marrone DP,
Cappallo RJ, Bock DC, Bower GC, Chamberlin R, Davis GR, Krichbaum TP, Lamb J,
Maness H, Niell AE, Roy A, Strittmatter P, Werthimer D, Whitney AR, Woody D.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Haystack Observatory, Off Route
40, Westford, Massachusetts 01886, USA. sdoeleman@haystack.mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):39-40.

The cores of most galaxies are thought to harbour supermassive black holes, which
power galactic nuclei by converting the gravitational energy of accreting matter 
into radiation. Sagittarius A* (Sgr A*), the compact source of radio, infrared
and X-ray emission at the centre of the Milky Way, is the closest example of this
phenomenon, with an estimated black hole mass that is 4,000,000 times that of the
Sun. A long-standing astronomical goal is to resolve structures in the innermost 
accretion flow surrounding Sgr A*, where strong gravitational fields will distort
the appearance of radiation emitted near the black hole. Radio observations at
wavelengths of 3.5 mm and 7 mm have detected intrinsic structure in Sgr A*, but
the spatial resolution of observations at these wavelengths is limited by
interstellar scattering. Here we report observations at a wavelength of 1.3 mm
that set a size of 37(+16)(-10) microarcseconds on the intrinsic diameter of Sgr 
A*. This is less than the expected apparent size of the event horizon of the
presumed black hole, suggesting that the bulk of Sgr A* emission may not be
centred on the black hole, but arises in the surrounding accretion flow.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07245 
PMID: 18769434 


345. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):51-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07262.

Amplitude spectroscopy of a solid-state artificial atom.

Berns DM(1), Rudner MS, Valenzuela SO, Berggren KK, Oliver WD, Levitov LS,
Orlando TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):41-3.

The energy-level structure of a quantum system, which has a fundamental role in
its behaviour, can be observed as discrete lines and features in absorption and
emission spectra. Conventionally, spectra are measured using frequency
spectroscopy, whereby the frequency of a harmonic electromagnetic driving field
is tuned into resonance with a particular separation between energy levels.
Although this technique has been successfully employed in a variety of physical
systems, including natural and artificial atoms and molecules, its application is
not universally straightforward and becomes extremely challenging for frequencies
in the range of tens to hundreds of gigahertz. Here we introduce a complementary 
approach, amplitude spectroscopy, whereby a harmonic driving field sweeps an
artificial atom through the avoided crossings between energy levels at a fixed
frequency. Spectroscopic information is obtained from the amplitude dependence of
the system's response, thereby overcoming many of the limitations of a
broadband-frequency-based approach. The resulting 'spectroscopy diamonds', the
regions in parameter space where transitions between specific pairs of levels can
occur, exhibit interference patterns and population inversion that serve to
distinguish the atom's spectrum. Amplitude spectroscopy provides a means of
manipulating and characterizing systems over an extremely broad bandwidth, using 
only a single driving frequency that may be orders of magnitude smaller than the 
energy scales being probed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07262 
PMID: 18769433 


346. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):72-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07214.

Type IV collagens regulate BMP signalling in Drosophila.

Wang X(1), Harris RE, Bayston LJ, Ashe HL.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, The University of Manchester, Oxford Road,
Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

Dorsal-ventral patterning in vertebrate and invertebrate embryos is mediated by a
conserved system of secreted proteins that establishes a bone morphogenetic
protein (BMP) gradient. Although the Drosophila embryonic Decapentaplegic (Dpp)
gradient has served as a model to understand how morphogen gradients are
established, no role for the extracellular matrix has been previously described. 
Here we show that type IV collagen extracellular matrix proteins bind Dpp and
regulate its signalling in both the Drosophila embryo and ovary. We provide
evidence that the interaction between Dpp and type IV collagen augments Dpp
signalling in the embryo by promoting gradient formation, yet it restricts the
signalling range in the ovary through sequestration of the Dpp ligand. Together, 
these results identify a critical function of type IV collagens in modulating Dpp
in the extracellular space during Drosophila development. On the basis of our
findings that human type IV collagen binds BMP4, we predict that this role of
type IV collagens will be conserved.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07214 
PMID: 18701888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):114-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07198.

Neurogenin 2 controls cortical neuron migration through regulation of Rnd2.

Heng JI(1), Nguyen L, Castro DS, Zimmer C, Wildner H, Armant O,
Skowronska-Krawczyk D, Bedogni F, Matter JM, Hevner R, Guillemot F.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, National Institute for Medical Research,
Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Cell Adh Migr. 2009 Jan-Mar;3(1):1-2.

Motility is a universal property of newly generated neurons. How cell migration
is coordinately regulated with other aspects of neuron production is not well
understood. Here we show that the proneural protein neurogenin 2 (Neurog2), which
controls neurogenesis in the embryonic cerebral cortex, directly induces the
expression of the small GTP-binding protein Rnd2 (ref. 3) in newly generated
mouse cortical neurons before they initiate migration. Rnd2 silencing leads to a 
defect in radial migration of cortical neurons similar to that observed when the 
Neurog2 gene is deleted. Remarkably, restoring Rnd2 expression in Neurog2-mutant 
neurons is sufficient to rescue their ability to migrate. Our results identify
Rnd2 as a novel essential regulator of neuronal migration in the cerebral cortex 
and demonstrate that Rnd2 is a major effector of Neurog2 function in the
promotion of migration. Thus, a proneural protein controls the complex cellular
behaviour of cell migration through a remarkably direct pathway involving the
transcriptional activation of a small GTP-binding protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07198 
PMID: 18690213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):100-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07218.

The virophage as a unique parasite of the giant mimivirus.

La Scola B(1), Desnues C, Pagnier I, Robert C, Barrassi L, Fournous G, Merchat M,
Suzan-Monti M, Forterre P, Koonin E, Raoult D.

Author information: 
(1)URMITE, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique UMR IRD 6236, Faculté de 
Médecine, Université de la Méditerranée, 27 Boulevard Jean Moulin, 13385
Marseille Cedex 5, France.

Viruses are obligate parasites of Eukarya, Archaea and Bacteria. Acanthamoeba
polyphaga mimivirus (APMV) is the largest known virus; it grows only in amoeba
and is visible under the optical microscope. Mimivirus possesses a 1,185-kilobase
double-stranded linear chromosome whose coding capacity is greater than that of
numerous bacteria and archaea1, 2, 3. Here we describe an icosahedral small
virus, Sputnik, 50 nm in size, found associated with a new strain of APMV.
Sputnik cannot multiply in Acanthamoeba castellanii but grows rapidly, after an
eclipse phase, in the giant virus factory found in amoebae co-infected with
APMV4. Sputnik growth is deleterious to APMV and results in the production of
abortive forms and abnormal capsid assembly of the host virus. The Sputnik genome
is an 18.343-kilobase circular double-stranded DNA and contains genes that are
linked to viruses infecting each of the three domains of life Eukarya, Archaea
and Bacteria. Of the 21 predicted protein-coding genes, eight encode proteins
with detectable homologues, including three proteins apparently derived from
APMV, a homologue of an archaeal virus integrase, a predicted primase-helicase, a
packaging ATPase with homologues in bacteriophages and eukaryotic viruses, a
distant homologue of bacterial insertion sequence transposase DNA-binding
subunit, and a Zn-ribbon protein. The closest homologues of the last four of
these proteins were detected in the Global Ocean Survey environmental data set5, 
suggesting that Sputnik represents a currently unknown family of viruses.
Considering its functional analogy with bacteriophages, we classify this virus as
a virophage. The virophage could be a vehicle mediating lateral gene transfer
between giant viruses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07218 
PMID: 18690211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07159. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

Molecular architecture of native HIV-1 gp120 trimers.

Liu J(1), Bartesaghi A, Borgnia MJ, Sapiro G, Subramaniam S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

The envelope glycoproteins (Env) of human and simian immunodeficiency viruses
(HIV and SIV, respectively) mediate virus binding to the cell surface receptor
CD4 on target cells to initiate infection. Env is a heterodimer of a
transmembrane glycoprotein (gp41) and a surface glycoprotein (gp120), and forms
trimers on the surface of the viral membrane. Using cryo-electron tomography
combined with three-dimensional image classification and averaging, we report the
three-dimensional structures of trimeric Env displayed on native HIV-1 in the
unliganded state, in complex with the broadly neutralizing antibody b12 and in a 
ternary complex with CD4 and the 17b antibody. By fitting the known crystal
structures of the monomeric gp120 core in the b12- and CD4/17b-bound
conformations into the density maps derived by electron tomography, we derive
molecular models for the native HIV-1 gp120 trimer in unliganded and CD4-bound
states. We demonstrate that CD4 binding results in a major reorganization of the 
Env trimer, causing an outward rotation and displacement of each gp120 monomer.
This appears to be coupled with a rearrangement of the gp41 region along the
central axis of the trimer, leading to closer contact between the viral and
target cell membranes. Our findings elucidate the structure and conformational
changes of trimeric HIV-1 gp120 relevant to antibody neutralization and
attachment to target cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07159 
PMCID: PMC2610422
PMID: 18668044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07188. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

Direct observation of the mechanochemical coupling in myosin Va during processive
movement.

Sakamoto T(1), Webb MR, Forgacs E, White HD, Sellers JR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Physiology, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Myosin Va transports intracellular cargoes along actin filaments in cells. This
processive, two-headed motor takes multiple 36-nm steps in which the two heads
swing forward alternately towards the barbed end of actin driven by ATP
hydrolysis. The ability of myosin Va to move processively is a function of its
long lever arm, the high duty ratio of its kinetic cycle and the gating of the
kinetics between the two heads such that ADP release from the lead head is
greatly retarded. Mechanical studies at the multiple- and the single-molecule
level suggest that there is tight coupling (that is, one ATP is hydrolysed per
power stroke), but this has not been directly demonstrated. We therefore
investigated the coordination between the ATPase mechanism of the two heads of
myosin Va and directly visualized the binding and dissociation of single
fluorescently labelled nucleotide molecules, while simultaneously observing the
stepping motion of the fluorescently labelled myosin Va as it moved along an
actin filament. Here we show that preferential ADP dissociation from the trail
head of mouse myosin Va is followed by ATP binding and a synchronous 36-nm step. 
Even at low ATP concentrations, the myosin Va molecule retained at least one
nucleotide (ADP in the lead head position) when moving. Thus, we directly
demonstrate tight coupling between myosin Va movement and the binding and
dissociation of nucleotide by simultaneously imaging with near nanometre
precision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07188 
PMCID: PMC2775414
PMID: 18668042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):58-63. doi: 10.1038/nature07228. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

Widespread changes in protein synthesis induced by microRNAs.

Selbach M(1), Schwanhäusser B, Thierfelder N, Fang Z, Khanin R, Rajewsky N.

Author information: 
(1)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle Str. 10, D-13125
Berlin, Germany. matthias.selbach@mdc-berlin.de

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2008 Sep;9(9):650.
    Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):44-5.

Animal microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression by inhibiting translation
and/or by inducing degradation of target messenger RNAs. It is unknown how much
translational control is exerted by miRNAs on a genome-wide scale. We used a new 
proteomic approach to measure changes in synthesis of several thousand proteins
in response to miRNA transfection or endogenous miRNA knockdown. In parallel, we 
quantified mRNA levels using microarrays. Here we show that a single miRNA can
repress the production of hundreds of proteins, but that this repression is
typically relatively mild. A number of known features of the miRNA-binding site
such as the seed sequence also govern repression of human protein synthesis, and 
we report additional target sequence characteristics. We demonstrate that, in
addition to downregulating mRNA levels, miRNAs also directly repress translation 
of hundreds of genes. Finally, our data suggest that a miRNA can, by direct or
indirect effects, tune protein synthesis from thousands of genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07228 
PMID: 18668040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):64-71. doi: 10.1038/nature07242. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

The impact of microRNAs on protein output.

Baek D(1), Villén J, Shin C, Camargo FD, Gygi SP, Bartel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):44-5.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2008 Sep;9(9):650.

MicroRNAs are endogenous approximately 23-nucleotide RNAs that can pair to sites 
in the messenger RNAs of protein-coding genes to downregulate the expression from
these messages. MicroRNAs are known to influence the evolution and stability of
many mRNAs, but their global impact on protein output had not been examined. Here
we use quantitative mass spectrometry to measure the response of thousands of
proteins after introducing microRNAs into cultured cells and after deleting
mir-223 in mouse neutrophils. The identities of the responsive proteins indicate 
that targeting is primarily through seed-matched sites located within favourable 
predicted contexts in 3' untranslated regions. Hundreds of genes were directly
repressed, albeit each to a modest degree, by individual microRNAs. Although some
targets were repressed without detectable changes in mRNA levels, those
translationally repressed by more than a third also displayed detectable mRNA
destabilization, and, for the more highly repressed targets, mRNA destabilization
usually comprised the major component of repression. The impact of microRNAs on
the proteome indicated that for most interactions microRNAs act as rheostats to
make fine-scale adjustments to protein output.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07242 
PMCID: PMC2745094
PMID: 18668037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):124-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07187. Epub 2008 Jul 27.

Structure of Epac2 in complex with a cyclic AMP analogue and RAP1B.

Rehmann H(1), Arias-Palomo E, Hadders MA, Schwede F, Llorca O, Bos JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Centre for Biomedical Genetics and
Cancer Genomics Centre, University Medical Center, Universiteitsweg 100, 3584 CG 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. h.rehmann@UMCutrecht.nl

Epac proteins are activated by binding of the second messenger cAMP and then act 
as guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rap proteins. The Epac proteins are
involved in the regulation of cell adhesion and insulin secretion. Here we have
determined the structure of Epac2 in complex with a cAMP analogue (Sp-cAMPS) and 
RAP1B by X-ray crystallography and single particle electron microscopy. The
structure represents the cAMP activated state of the Epac2 protein with the RAP1B
protein trapped in the course of the exchange reaction. Comparison with the
inactive conformation reveals that cAMP binding causes conformational changes
that allow the cyclic nucleotide binding domain to swing from a position blocking
the Rap binding site towards a docking site at the Ras exchange motif domain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07187 
PMID: 18660803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07175. Epub 2008 Jul 20.

Single-nucleotide mutation rate increases close to insertions/deletions in
eukaryotes.

Tian D(1), Wang Q, Zhang P, Araki H, Yang S, Kreitman M, Nagylaki T, Hudson R,
Bergelson J, Chen JQ.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Department of Biology,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. dtian@nju.edu.cn

Mutation hotspots are commonly observed in genomic sequences and certain human
disease loci, but general mechanisms for their formation remain elusive. Here we 
investigate the distribution of single-nucleotide changes around
insertions/deletions (indels) in six independent genome comparisons, including
primates, rodents, fruitfly, rice and yeast. In each of these genomic
comparisons, nucleotide divergence (D) is substantially elevated surrounding
indels and decreases monotonically to near-background levels over several hundred
bases. D is significantly correlated with both size and abundance of nearby
indels. In comparisons of closely related species, derived nucleotide
substitutions surrounding indels occur in significantly greater numbers in the
lineage containing the indel than in the one containing the ancestral (non-indel)
allele; the same holds within species for single-nucleotide mutations surrounding
polymorphic indels. We propose that heterozygosity for an indel is mutagenic to
surrounding sequences, and use yeast genome-wide polymorphism data to estimate
the increase in mutation rate. The consistency of these patterns within and
between species suggests that indel-associated substitution is a general
mutational mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07175 
PMID: 18641631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209):119-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07185. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Polo-like kinase-1 is activated by aurora A to promote checkpoint recovery.

Macůrek L(1), Lindqvist A, Lim D, Lampson MA, Klompmaker R, Freire R, Clouin C,
Taylor SS, Yaffe MB, Medema RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht
3584CG, The Netherlands.

Polo-like kinase-1 (PLK1) is an essential mitotic kinase regulating multiple
aspects of the cell division process. Activation of PLK1 requires phosphorylation
of a conserved threonine residue (Thr 210) in the T-loop of the PLK1 kinase
domain, but the kinase responsible for this has not yet been affirmatively
identified. Here we show that in human cells PLK1 activation occurs several hours
before entry into mitosis, and requires aurora A (AURKA, also known as
STK6)-dependent phosphorylation of Thr 210. We find that aurora A can directly
phosphorylate PLK1 on Thr 210, and that activity of aurora A towards PLK1 is
greatly enhanced by Bora (also known as C13orf34 and FLJ22624), a known cofactor 
for aurora A (ref. 7). We show that Bora/aurora-A-dependent phosphorylation is a 
prerequisite for PLK1 to promote mitotic entry after a checkpoint-dependent
arrest. Importantly, expression of a PLK1-T210D phospho-mimicking mutant
partially overcomes the requirement for aurora A in checkpoint recovery. Taken
together, these data demonstrate that the initial activation of PLK1 is a primary
function of aurora A.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07185 
PMID: 18615013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07227.

Formation of current coils in geodynamo simulations.

Kageyama A(1), Miyagoshi T, Sato T.

Author information: 
(1)Earth Simulator Center, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, 
Yokohama, 236-0001, Japan. kage@jamstec.go.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1058-9.

Computer simulations have been playing an important role in the development of
our understanding of the geodynamo, but direct numerical simulation of the
geodynamo with a realistic parameter regime is still beyond the power of today's 
supercomputers. Difficulties in simulating the geodynamo arise from the extreme
conditions of the core, which are characterized by very large or very small
values of the non-dimensional parameters of the system. Among them, the Ekman
number, E, has been adopted as a barometer of the distance of simulations from
real core conditions, in which E is of the order of 10(-15). Following the
initial computer simulations of the geodynamo, the Ekman number achieved has been
steadily decreasing, with recent geodynamo simulations performed with E of the
order of 10(-6). Here we present a geodynamo simulation with an Ekman number of
the order of 10(-7)-the highest-resolution simulation yet achieved, making use of
4,096 processors of the Earth Simulator. We have found that both the convection
flow and magnetic field structures are qualitatively different from those found
in larger-Ekman-number dynamos. The convection takes the form of sheet plumes or 
radial sheet jets, rather than the columnar cell structures that are usually
found. We have found that this sheet plume convection is an effective dynamo and 
the generated current is organized as a set of coils in the shape of helical
springs or at times as a torus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07227 
PMID: 18756255 


357. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1102-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07223.

Late Pliocene Greenland glaciation controlled by a decline in atmospheric CO2
levels.

Lunt DJ(1), Foster GL, Haywood AM, Stone EJ.

Author information: 
(1)BRIDGE, School of Geographical Sciences, University of Bristol, University
Road, Bristol BS8 1SS, UK. d.j.lunt@bristol.ac.uk

It is thought that the Northern Hemisphere experienced only ephemeral glaciations
from the Late Eocene to the Early Pliocene epochs (about 38 to 4 million years
ago), and that the onset of extensive glaciations did not occur until about 3
million years ago. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain this increase
in Northern Hemisphere glaciation during the Late Pliocene. Here we use a fully
coupled atmosphere-ocean general circulation model and an ice-sheet model to
assess the impact of the proposed driving mechanisms for glaciation and the
influence of orbital variations on the development of the Greenland ice sheet in 
particular. We find that Greenland glaciation is mainly controlled by a decrease 
in atmospheric carbon dioxide during the Late Pliocene. By contrast, our model
results suggest that climatic shifts associated with the tectonically driven
closure of the Panama seaway, with the termination of a permanent El Niño state
or with tectonic uplift are not large enough to contribute significantly to the
growth of the Greenland ice sheet; moreover, we find that none of these processes
acted as a priming mechanism for glacial inception triggered by variations in the
Earth's orbit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07223 
PMID: 18756254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1098-101. doi: 10.1038/nature07241.

Experimental demonstration of a BDCZ quantum repeater node.

Yuan ZS(1), Chen YA, Zhao B, Chen S, Schmiedmayer J, Pan JW.

Author information: 
(1)Physikalisches Institut, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Philosophenweg
12, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Quantum communication is a method that offers efficient and secure ways for the
exchange of information in a network. Large-scale quantum communication (of the
order of 100 km) has been achieved; however, serious problems occur beyond this
distance scale, mainly due to inevitable photon loss in the transmission channel.
Quantum communication eventually fails when the probability of a dark count in
the photon detectors becomes comparable to the probability that a photon is
correctly detected. To overcome this problem, Briegel, Dür, Cirac and Zoller
(BDCZ) introduced the concept of quantum repeaters, combining entanglement
swapping and quantum memory to efficiently extend the achievable distances.
Although entanglement swapping has been experimentally demonstrated, the
implementation of BDCZ quantum repeaters has proved challenging owing to the
difficulty of integrating a quantum memory. Here we realize entanglement swapping
with storage and retrieval of light, a building block of the BDCZ quantum
repeater. We follow a scheme that incorporates the strategy of BDCZ with atomic
quantum memories. Two atomic ensembles, each originally entangled with a single
emitted photon, are projected into an entangled state by performing a joint Bell 
state measurement on the two single photons after they have passed through a
300-m fibre-based communication channel. The entanglement is stored in the atomic
ensembles and later verified by converting the atomic excitations into photons.
Our method is intrinsically phase insensitive and establishes the essential
element needed to realize quantum repeaters with stationary atomic qubits as
quantum memories and flying photonic qubits as quantum messengers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07241 
PMID: 18756253 


359. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1096-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07222.

A common mass scale for satellite galaxies of the Milky Way.

Strigari LE(1), Bullock JS, Kaplinghat M, Simon JD, Geha M, Willman B, Walker MG.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cosmology, Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of
California, Irvine, California 92697-4574, USA. lstrigar@uci.edu

The Milky Way has at least twenty-three known satellite galaxies that shine with 
luminosities ranging from about a thousand to a billion times that of the Sun.
Half of these galaxies were discovered in the past few years in the Sloan Digital
Sky Survey, and they are among the least luminous galaxies in the known Universe.
A determination of the mass of these galaxies provides a test of galaxy formation
at the smallest scales and probes the nature of the dark matter that dominates
the mass density of the Universe. Here we use new measurements of the velocities 
of the stars in these galaxies to show that they are consistent with them having 
a common mass of about 10(7) within their central 300 parsecs. This result
demonstrates that the faintest of the Milky Way satellites are the most
dark-matter-dominated galaxies known, and could be a hint of a new scale in
galaxy formation or a characteristic scale for the clustering of dark matter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07222 
PMID: 18756252 


360. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1088-95. doi: 10.1038/nature07195.

Misfolded proteins partition between two distinct quality control compartments.

Kaganovich D(1), Kopito R, Frydman J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and BioX Program, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

The accumulation of misfolded proteins in intracellular amyloid inclusions,
typical of many neurodegenerative disorders including Huntington's and prion
disease, is thought to occur after failure of the cellular protein quality
control mechanisms. Here we examine the formation of misfolded protein inclusions
in the eukaryotic cytosol of yeast and mammalian cell culture models. We identify
two intracellular compartments for the sequestration of misfolded cytosolic
proteins. Partition of quality control substrates to either compartment seems to 
depend on their ubiquitination status and aggregation state. Soluble
ubiquitinated misfolded proteins accumulate in a juxtanuclear compartment where
proteasomes are concentrated. In contrast, terminally aggregated proteins are
sequestered in a perivacuolar inclusion. Notably, disease-associated Huntingtin
and prion proteins are preferentially directed to the perivacuolar compartment.
Enhancing ubiquitination of a prion protein suffices to promote its delivery to
the juxtanuclear inclusion. Our findings provide a framework for understanding
the preferential accumulation of amyloidogenic proteins in inclusions linked to
human disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07195 
PMCID: PMC2746971
PMID: 18756251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1084-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07268.

Major viral impact on the functioning of benthic deep-sea ecosystems.

Danovaro R(1), Dell'Anno A, Corinaldesi C, Magagnini M, Noble R, Tamburini C,
Weinbauer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marine Science, Faculty of Science, Polytechnic University of
Marche, Via Brecce Bianche, 60131 Ancona, Italy. r.danovaro@univpm.it

Viruses are the most abundant biological organisms of the world's oceans. Viral
infections are a substantial source of mortality in a range of
organisms-including autotrophic and heterotrophic plankton-but their impact on
the deep ocean and benthic biosphere is completely unknown. Here we report that
viral production in deep-sea benthic ecosystems worldwide is extremely high, and 
that viral infections are responsible for the abatement of 80% of prokaryotic
heterotrophic production. Virus-induced prokaryotic mortality increases with
increasing water depth, and beneath a depth of 1,000 m nearly all of the
prokaryotic heterotrophic production is transformed into organic detritus. The
viral shunt, releasing on a global scale approximately 0.37-0.63 gigatonnes of
carbon per year, is an essential source of labile organic detritus in the
deep-sea ecosystems. This process sustains a high prokaryotic biomass and
provides an important contribution to prokaryotic metabolism, allowing the system
to cope with the severe organic resource limitation of deep-sea ecosystems. Our
results indicate that viruses have an important role in global biogeochemical
cycles, in deep-sea metabolism and the overall functioning of the largest
ecosystem of our biosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07268 
PMID: 18756250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1079-83. doi: 10.1038/nature07155.

Egalitarianism in young children.

Fehr E(1), Bernhard H, Rockenbach B.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zurich, Institute for Empirical Research in Economics,
Blumlisalpstrasse 10, CH-8006 Zurich, Switzerland. efehr@iew.uzh.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1057-8.

Human social interaction is strongly shaped by other-regarding preferences, that 
is, a concern for the welfare of others. These preferences are important for a
unique aspect of human sociality-large scale cooperation with genetic
strangers-but little is known about their developmental roots. Here we show that 
young children's other-regarding preferences assume a particular form, inequality
aversion that develops strongly between the ages of 3 and 8. At age 3-4, the
overwhelming majority of children behave selfishly, whereas most children at age 
7-8 prefer resource allocations that remove advantageous or disadvantageous
inequality. Moreover, inequality aversion is strongly shaped by parochialism, a
preference for favouring the members of one's own social group. These results
indicate that human egalitarianism and parochialism have deep developmental
roots, and the simultaneous emergence of altruistic sharing and parochialism
during childhood is intriguing in view of recent evolutionary theories which
predict that the same evolutionary process jointly drives both human altruism and
parochialism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07155 
PMID: 18756249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1072-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07243.

How Cooper pairs vanish approaching the Mott insulator in Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+delta.

Kohsaka Y(1), Taylor C, Wahl P, Schmidt A, Lee J, Fujita K, Alldredge JW, McElroy
K, Lee J, Eisaki H, Uchida S, Lee DH, Davis JC.

Author information: 
(1)LASSP, Department of Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1062-3.

The antiferromagnetic ground state of copper oxide Mott insulators is achieved by
localizing an electron at each copper atom in real space (r-space). Removing a
small fraction of these electrons (hole doping) transforms this system into a
superconducting fluid of delocalized Cooper pairs in momentum space (k-space).
During this transformation, two distinctive classes of electronic excitations
appear. At high energies, the mysterious 'pseudogap' excitations are found,
whereas, at lower energies, Bogoliubov quasi-particles-the excitations resulting 
from the breaking of Cooper pairs-should exist. To explore this transformation,
and to identify the two excitation types, we have imaged the electronic structure
of Bi(2)Sr(2)CaCu(2)O(8+delta) in r-space and k-space simultaneously. We find
that although the low-energy excitations are indeed Bogoliubov quasi-particles,
they occupy only a restricted region of k-space that shrinks rapidly with
diminishing hole density. Concomitantly, spectral weight is transferred to higher
energy r-space states that lack the characteristics of excitations from
delocalized Cooper pairs. Instead, these states break translational and
rotational symmetries locally at the atomic scale in an energy-independent way.
We demonstrate that these unusual r-space excitations are, in fact, the pseudogap
states. Thus, as the Mott insulating state is approached by decreasing the hole
density, the delocalized Cooper pairs vanish from k-space, to be replaced by
locally translational- and rotational-symmetry-breaking pseudogap states in
r-space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07243 
PMID: 18756248 


364. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1065-71. doi: 10.1038/nature07216.

Puzzles, promises and a cure for ageing.

Vijg J(1), Campisi J.

Author information: 
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato, California
94945, USA. jvijg@aecom.yu.edu

Recent discoveries in the science of ageing indicate that lifespan in model
organisms such as yeast, nematodes, flies and mice is plastic and can be
manipulated by genetic, nutritional or pharmacological intervention. A better
understanding of the targets of such interventions, as well as the proximate
causes of ageing-related degeneration and disease, is essential before we can
evaluate if abrogation of human senescence is a realistic prospect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07216 
PMCID: PMC2774752
PMID: 18756247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1119-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07211. Epub 2008 Jul
30.

Metabolic gene regulation in a dynamically changing environment.

Bennett MR(1), Pang WL, Ostroff NA, Baumgartner BL, Nayak S, Tsimring LS, Hasty
J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1059-62.

Natural selection dictates that cells constantly adapt to dynamically changing
environments in a context-dependent manner. Gene-regulatory networks often
mediate the cellular response to perturbation, and an understanding of cellular
adaptation will require experimental approaches aimed at subjecting cells to a
dynamic environment that mimics their natural habitat. Here we monitor the
response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolic gene regulation to periodic
changes in the external carbon source by using a microfluidic platform that
allows precise, dynamic control over environmental conditions. We show that the
metabolic system acts as a low-pass filter that reliably responds to a slowly
changing environment, while effectively ignoring fast fluctuations. The sensitive
low-frequency response was significantly faster than in predictions arising from 
our computational modelling, and this discrepancy was resolved by the discovery
that two key galactose transcripts possess half-lives that depend on the carbon
source. Finally, to explore how induction characteristics affect frequency
response, we compare two S. cerevisiae strains and show that they have the same
frequency response despite having markedly different induction properties. This
suggests that although certain characteristics of the complex networks may differ
when probed in a static environment, the system has been optimized for a robust
response to a dynamically changing environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07211 
PMCID: PMC2654342
PMID: 18668041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1127-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07225. Epub 2008 Jul
27.

The structural basis for an essential subunit interaction in influenza virus RNA 
polymerase.

Obayashi E(1), Yoshida H, Kawai F, Shibayama N, Kawaguchi A, Nagata K, Tame JR,
Park SY.

Author information: 
(1)Protein Design Laboratory, Yokohama City University, 1-7-29 Suehiro, Tsurumi, 
Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.

Influenza A virus is a major human and animal pathogen with the potential to
cause catastrophic loss of life. The virus reproduces rapidly, mutates frequently
and occasionally crosses species barriers. The recent emergence in Asia of avian 
influenza related to highly pathogenic forms of the human virus has highlighted
the urgent need for new effective treatments. Here we demonstrate the importance 
to viral replication of a subunit interface in the viral RNA polymerase, thereby 
providing a new set of potential drug binding sites entirely independent of
surface antigen type. No current medication targets this heterotrimeric
polymerase complex. All three subunits, PB1, PB2 and PA, are required for both
transcription and replication. PB1 carries the polymerase active site, PB2
includes the capped-RNA recognition domain, and PA is involved in assembly of the
functional complex, but so far very little structural information has been
reported for any of them. We describe the crystal structure of a large fragment
of one subunit (PA) of influenza A RNA polymerase bound to a fragment of another 
subunit (PB1). The carboxy-terminal domain of PA forms a novel fold, and forms a 
deep, highly hydrophobic groove into which the amino-terminal residues of PB1 can
fit by forming a 3(10) helix.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07225 
PMID: 18660801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1142-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07163. Epub 2008 Jul 23.

Cell-specific ATP7A transport sustains copper-dependent tyrosinase activity in
melanosomes.

Setty SR(1), Tenza D, Sviderskaya EV, Bennett DC, Raposo G, Marks MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Copper is a cofactor for many cellular enzymes and transporters. It can be loaded
onto secreted and endomembrane cuproproteins by translocation from the cytosol
into membrane-bound organelles by ATP7A or ATP7B transporters, the genes for
which are mutated in the copper imbalance syndromes Menkes disease and Wilson
disease, respectively. Endomembrane cuproproteins are thought to incorporate
copper stably on transit through the trans-Golgi network, in which ATP7A
accumulates by dynamic cycling through early endocytic compartments. Here we show
that the pigment-cell-specific cuproenzyme tyrosinase acquires copper only
transiently and inefficiently within the trans-Golgi network of mouse
melanocytes. To catalyse melanin synthesis, tyrosinase is subsequently reloaded
with copper within specialized organelles called melanosomes. Copper is supplied 
to melanosomes by ATP7A, a cohort of which localizes to melanosomes in a
biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-1 (BLOC-1)-dependent manner.
These results indicate that cell-type-specific localization of a metal
transporter is required to sustain metallation of an endomembrane cuproenzyme,
providing a mechanism for exquisite spatial control of metalloenzyme activity.
Moreover, because BLOC-1 subunits are mutated in subtypes of the genetic disease 
Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, these results also show that defects in copper
transporter localization contribute to hypopigmentation, and hence perhaps other 
systemic defects, in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07163 
PMCID: PMC2812007
PMID: 18650808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1115-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07168. Epub 2008 Jul 23.

A blend of small molecules regulates both mating and development in
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Srinivasan J(1), Kaplan F, Ajredini R, Zachariah C, Alborn HT, Teal PE, Malik RU,
Edison AS, Sternberg PW, Schroeder FC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Biology Division, California Institute of 
Technology, 1200 E. California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

In many organisms, population-density sensing and sexual attraction rely on
small-molecule-based signalling systems. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, 
population density is monitored through specific glycosides of the dideoxysugar
ascarylose (the 'ascarosides') that promote entry into an alternative larval
stage, the non-feeding and highly persistent dauer stage. In addition, adult C.
elegans males are attracted to hermaphrodites by a previously unidentified
small-molecule signal. Here we show, by means of combinatorial activity-guided
fractionation of the C. elegans metabolome, that the mating signal consists of a 
synergistic blend of three dauer-inducing ascarosides, which we call ascr#2,
ascr#3 and ascr#4. This blend of ascarosides acts as a potent male attractant at 
very low concentrations, whereas at the higher concentrations required for dauer 
formation the compounds no longer attract males and instead deter hermaphrodites.
The ascarosides ascr#2 and ascr#3 carry different, but overlapping, information, 
as ascr#3 is more potent as a male attractant than ascr#2, whereas ascr#2 is
slightly more potent than ascr#3 in promoting dauer formation. We demonstrate
that ascr#2, ascr#3 and ascr#4 are strongly synergistic, and that two types of
neuron, the amphid single-ciliated sensory neuron type K (ASK) and the
male-specific cephalic companion neuron (CEM), are required for male attraction
by ascr#3. On the basis of these results, male attraction and dauer formation in 
C. elegans appear as alternative behavioural responses to a common set of
signalling molecules. The ascaroside signalling system thus connects reproductive
and developmental pathways and represents a unique example of structure- and
concentration-dependent differential activity of signalling molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07168 
PMCID: PMC2774729
PMID: 18650807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1132-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07173. Epub 2008 Jul 20.

Multipotent somatic stem cells contribute to the stem cell niche in the
Drosophila testis.

Voog J(1), D'Alterio C, Jones DL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Adult stem cells reside in specialized microenvironments, or niches, that have an
important role in regulating stem cell behaviour. Therefore, tight control of
niche number, size and function is necessary to ensure the proper balance between
stem cells and progenitor cells available for tissue homeostasis and wound
repair. The stem cell niche in the Drosophila male gonad is located at the tip of
the testis where germline and somatic stem cells surround the apical hub, a
cluster of approximately 10-15 somatic cells that is required for stem cell
self-renewal and maintenance. Here we show that somatic stem cells in the
Drosophila testis contribute to both the apical hub and the somatic cyst cell
lineage. The Drosophila orthologue of epithelial cadherin (DE-cadherin) is
required for somatic stem cell maintenance and, consequently, the apical hub.
Furthermore, our data indicate that the transcriptional repressor escargot
regulates the ability of somatic cells to assume and/or maintain hub cell
identity. These data highlight the dynamic relationship between stem cells and
the niche and provide insight into genetic programmes that regulate niche size
and function to support normal tissue homeostasis and organ regeneration
throughout life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07173 
PMCID: PMC2599791
PMID: 18641633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07141. Epub 2008 Jul 16.

Acetylcholine contributes through muscarinic receptors to attentional modulation 
in V1.

Herrero JL(1), Roberts MJ, Delicato LS, Gieselmann MA, Dayan P, Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, 
UK.

Attention exerts a strong influence over neuronal processing in cortical areas.
It selectively increases firing rates and affects tuning properties, including
changing receptive field locations and sizes. Although these effects are well
studied, their cellular mechanisms are poorly understood. To study the cellular
mechanisms, we combined iontophoretic pharmacological analysis of cholinergic
receptors with single cell recordings in V1 while rhesus macaque monkeys (Macaca 
mulatta) performed a task that demanded top-down spatial attention. Attending to 
the receptive field of the V1 neuron under study caused an increase in firing
rates. Here we show that this attentional modulation was enhanced by low doses of
acetylcholine. Furthermore, applying the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine
reduced attentional modulation, whereas the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine had
no systematic effect. These results demonstrate that muscarinic cholinergic
mechanisms play a central part in mediating the effects of attention in V1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07141 
PMCID: PMC2666819
PMID: 18633352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1123-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07120. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Crystal structure of the polymerase PA(C)-PB1(N) complex from an avian influenza 
H5N1 virus.

He X(1), Zhou J, Bartlam M, Zhang R, Ma J, Lou Z, Li X, Li J, Joachimiak A, Zeng 
Z, Ge R, Rao Z, Liu Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

The recent emergence of highly pathogenic avian influenza A virus strains with
subtype H5N1 pose a global threat to human health. Elucidation of the underlying 
mechanisms of viral replication is critical for development of anti-influenza
virus drugs. The influenza RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) heterotrimer has
crucial roles in viral RNA replication and transcription. It contains three
proteins: PA, PB1 and PB2. PB1 harbours polymerase and endonuclease activities
and PB2 is responsible for cap binding; PA is implicated in RNA replication and
proteolytic activity, although its function is less clearly defined. Here we
report the 2.9 ångström structure of avian H5N1 influenza A virus PA (PA(C),
residues 257-716) in complex with the PA-binding region of PB1 (PB1(N), residues 
1-25). PA(C) has a fold resembling a dragon's head with PB1(N) clamped into its
open 'jaws'. PB1(N) is a known inhibitor that blocks assembly of the polymerase
heterotrimer and abolishes viral replication. Our structure provides details for 
the binding of PB1(N) to PA(C) at the atomic level, demonstrating a potential
target for novel anti-influenza therapeutics. We also discuss a potential
nucleotide binding site and the roles of some known residues involved in
polymerase activity. Furthermore, to explore the role of PA in viral replication 
and transcription, we propose a model for the influenza RdRp heterotrimer by
comparing PA(C) with the lambda3 reovirus polymerase structure, and docking the
PA(C) structure into an available low resolution electron microscopy map.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07120 
PMID: 18615018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1137-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07066. Epub 2008 Jun
25.

Mouse development with a single E2F activator.

Tsai SY(1), Opavsky R, Sharma N, Wu L, Naidu S, Nolan E, Feria-Arias E, Timmers
C, Opavska J, de Bruin A, Chong JL, Trikha P, Fernandez SA, Stromberg P, Rosol
TJ, Leone G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, College of Biological Sciences, The Ohio
State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

The E2F family is conserved from Caenorhabditis elegans to mammals, with some
family members having transcription activation functions and others having
repressor functions. Whereas C. elegans and Drosophila melanogaster have a single
E2F activator protein and repressor protein, mammals have at least three
activator and five repressor proteins. Why such genetic complexity evolved in
mammals is not known. To begin to evaluate this genetic complexity, we targeted
the inactivation of the entire subset of activators, E2f1, E2f2, E2f3a and E2f3b,
singly or in combination in mice. We demonstrate that E2f3a is sufficient to
support mouse embryonic and postnatal development. Remarkably, expression of
E2f3b or E2f1 from the E2f3a locus (E2f3a(3bki) or E2f3a(1ki), respectively)
suppressed all the postnatal phenotypes associated with the inactivation of
E2f3a. We conclude that there is significant functional redundancy among
activators and that the specific requirement for E2f3a during postnatal
development is dictated by regulatory sequences governing its selective
spatiotemporal expression and not by its intrinsic protein functions. These
findings provide a molecular basis for the observed specificity among E2F
activators during development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07066 
PMCID: PMC4288824
PMID: 18594513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):1000-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07221.

New role of bone morphogenetic protein 7 in brown adipogenesis and energy
expenditure.

Tseng YH(1), Kokkotou E, Schulz TJ, Huang TL, Winnay JN, Taniguchi CM, Tran TT,
Suzuki R, Espinoza DO, Yamamoto Y, Ahrens MJ, Dudley AT, Norris AW, Kulkarni RN, 
Kahn CR.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Obesity and Hormone Action, Joslin Diabetes Center, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. yu-hua.tseng@joslin.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):947-8.

Adipose tissue is central to the regulation of energy balance. Two functionally
different types of fat are present in mammals: white adipose tissue, the primary 
site of triglyceride storage, and brown adipose tissue, which is specialized in
energy expenditure and can counteract obesity. Factors that specify the
developmental fate and function of white and brown adipose tissue remain poorly
understood. Here we demonstrate that whereas some members of the family of bone
morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) support white adipocyte differentiation, BMP7
singularly promotes differentiation of brown preadipocytes even in the absence of
the normally required hormonal induction cocktail. BMP7 activates a full program 
of brown adipogenesis including induction of early regulators of brown fat fate
PRDM16 (PR-domain-containing 16; ref. 4) and PGC-1alpha (peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) coactivator-1alpha; ref. 5),
increased expression of the brown-fat-defining marker uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1)
and adipogenic transcription factors PPARgamma and CCAAT/enhancer-binding
proteins (C/EBPs), and induction of mitochondrial biogenesis via p38
mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase-(also known as Mapk14) and PGC-1-dependent
pathways. Moreover, BMP7 triggers commitment of mesenchymal progenitor cells to a
brown adipocyte lineage, and implantation of these cells into nude mice results
in development of adipose tissue containing mostly brown adipocytes. Bmp7
knockout embryos show a marked paucity of brown fat and an almost complete
absence of UCP1. Adenoviral-mediated expression of BMP7 in mice results in a
significant increase in brown, but not white, fat mass and leads to an increase
in energy expenditure and a reduction in weight gain. These data reveal an
important role of BMP7 in promoting brown adipocyte differentiation and
thermogenesis in vivo and in vitro, and provide a potential new therapeutic
approach for the treatment of obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07221 
PMCID: PMC2745972
PMID: 18719589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):987-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07067.

Self-destructive cooperation mediated by phenotypic noise.

Ackermann M(1), Stecher B, Freed NE, Songhet P, Hardt WD, Doebeli M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zurich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.
martin.ackermann@env.ethz.ch

In many biological examples of cooperation, individuals that cooperate cannot
benefit from the resulting public good. This is especially clear in cases of
self-destructive cooperation, where individuals die when helping others. If
self-destructive cooperation is genetically encoded, these genes can only be
maintained if they are expressed by just a fraction of their carriers, whereas
the other fraction benefits from the public good. One mechanism that can mediate 
this differentiation into two phenotypically different sub-populations is
phenotypic noise. Here we show that noisy expression of self-destructive
cooperation can evolve if individuals that have a higher probability for
self-destruction have, on average, access to larger public goods. This situation,
which we refer to as assortment, can arise if the environment is spatially
structured. These results provide a new perspective on the significance of
phenotypic noise in bacterial pathogenesis: it might promote the formation of
cooperative sub-populations that die while preparing the ground for a successful 
infection. We show experimentally that this model captures essential features of 
Salmonella typhimurium pathogenesis. We conclude that noisily expressed
self-destructive cooperative actions can evolve under conditions of assortment,
that self-destructive cooperation is a plausible biological function of
phenotypic noise, and that self-destructive cooperation mediated by phenotypic
noise could be important in bacterial pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07067 
PMID: 18719588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):984-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07230.

Effect of phase transitions on compressional-wave velocities in the Earth's
mantle.

Li L(1), Weidner DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Mineral Physics Institute Department of Geosciences, Stony Brook University,
Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA. lilli@ic.sunysb.edu

The velocities of seismic waves in the Earth are governed by the response of the 
constituent mineral assemblage to perturbations in pressure and stress. The
effective bulk modulus is significantly lowered if the pressure of the seismic
wave drives a volume-reducing phase transformation. A comparison between the
amount of time required by phase transitions to reach equilibrium and the
sampling period thus becomes crucial in defining the softening and attenuation of
compressional waves within such a two-phase zone. These phenomena are difficult
to assess experimentally, however, because data at conditions appropriate to the 
Earth's deep interior are required. Here we present synchrotron-based
experimental data that demonstrate softening of the bulk modulus within the
two-phase loop of olivine-ringwoodite on a timescale of 100 s. If the amplitude
of the pressure perturbation and the grain size are scaled to those expected in
the Earth, the compressional-wave velocities within the discontinuities at 410,
520 and, possibly, 660 km are likely to be significantly lower than otherwise
expected. The generalization of these observations to aluminium-controlled phase 
transitions raises the possibility of large velocity perturbations throughout the
upper 1,000 km of the mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07230 
PMID: 18719587 


376. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):981-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07194.

Selective oxidation with dioxygen by gold nanoparticle catalysts derived from
55-atom clusters.

Turner M(1), Golovko VB, Vaughan OP, Abdulkin P, Berenguer-Murcia A, Tikhov MS,
Johnson BF, Lambert RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1EW, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):948-9.

Supported gold nanoparticles have excited much interest owing to their unusual
and somewhat unexpected catalytic properties, but the origin of the catalytic
activity is still not fully understood. Experimental work on gold particles
supported on a titanium dioxide (110) single-crystal surface has established a
striking size threshold effect associated with a metal-to-insulator transition,
with gold particles catalytically active only if their diameters fall below
approximately 3.5 nm. However, the remarkable catalytic behaviour might also in
part arise from strong electronic interaction between the gold and the titanium
dioxide support. In the case of industrially important selective oxidation
reactions, explanation of the effectiveness of gold nanoparticle catalysts is
complicated by the need for additives to drive the reaction, and/or the presence 
of strong support interactions and incomplete understanding of their possible
catalytic role. Here we show that very small gold entities ( approximately 1.4
nm) derived from 55-atom gold clusters and supported on inert materials are
efficient and robust catalysts for the selective oxidation of styrene by
dioxygen. We find a sharp size threshold in catalytic activity, in that particles
with diameters of approximately 2 nm and above are completely inactive. Our
observations suggest that catalytic activity arises from the altered electronic
structure intrinsic to small gold nanoparticles, and that the use of 55-atom gold
clusters may prove a viable route to the synthesis of robust gold catalysts
suited to practical application.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07194 
PMID: 18719586 


377. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):976-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07137.

Doping a semiconductor to create an unconventional metal.

Manyala N(1), DiTusa JF, Aeppli G, Ramirez AP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana 70803, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):951-2.

Landau-Fermi liquid theory, with its pivotal assertion that electrons in metals
can be simply understood as independent particles with effective masses replacing
the free electron mass, has been astonishingly successful. This is true despite
the Coulomb interactions an electron experiences from the host crystal lattice,
lattice defects and the other approximately 10(22) cm(-3) electrons. An important
extension to the theory accounts for the behaviour of doped semiconductors.
Because little in the vast literature on materials contradicts Fermi liquid
theory and its extensions, exceptions have attracted great attention, and they
include the high-temperature superconductors, silicon-based field-effect
transistors that host two-dimensional metals, and certain rare-earth compounds at
the threshold of magnetism. The origin of the non-Fermi liquid behaviour in all
of these systems remains controversial. Here we report that an entirely different
and exceedingly simple class of materials-doped small-bandgap semiconductors near
a metal-insulator transition-can also display a non-Fermi liquid state.
Remarkably, a modest magnetic field functions as a switch which restores the
ordinary disordered Fermi liquid. Our data suggest that we have found a physical 
realization of the only mathematically rigorous route to a non-Fermi liquid,
namely the 'undercompensated Kondo effect', where there are too few mobile
electrons to compensate for the spins of unpaired electrons localized on impurity
atoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07137 
PMID: 18719585 


378. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):971-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07116.

Heterogeneous chemistry in the atmosphere of Mars.

Lefèvre F(1), Bertaux JL, Clancy RT, Encrenaz T, Fast K, Forget F, Lebonnois S,
Montmessin F, Perrier S.

Author information: 
(1)UPMC Univ. Paris 06, Service d'Aéronomie, Paris F-75005, France.
franck.lefevre@aero.jussieu.fr

Hydrogen radicals are produced in the martian atmosphere by the photolysis of
water vapour and subsequently initiate catalytic cycles that recycle carbon
dioxide from its photolysis product carbon monoxide. These processes provide a
qualitative explanation for the stability of the atmosphere of Mars, which
contains 95 per cent carbon dioxide. Balancing carbon dioxide production and loss
based on our current understanding of the gas-phase chemistry in the martian
atmosphere has, however, proven to be difficult. Interactions between gaseous
chemical species and ice cloud particles have been shown to be key factors in the
loss of polar ozone observed in the Earth's stratosphere, and may significantly
perturb the chemistry of the Earth's upper troposphere. Water-ice clouds are also
commonly observed in the atmosphere of Mars and it has been suggested previously 
that heterogeneous chemistry could have an important impact on the composition of
the martian atmosphere. Here we use a state-of-the-art general circulation model 
together with new observations of the martian ozone layer to show that model
simulations that include chemical reactions occurring on ice clouds lead to much 
improved quantitative agreement with observed martian ozone levels in comparison 
with model simulations based on gas-phase chemistry alone. Ozone is readily
destroyed by hydrogen radicals and is therefore a sensitive tracer of the
chemistry that regulates the atmosphere of Mars. Our results suggest that
heterogeneous chemistry on ice clouds plays an important role in controlling the 
stability and composition of the martian atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07116 
PMID: 18719584 


379. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):968-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07169.

Magnetic support of the optical emission line filaments in NGC 1275.

Fabian AC(1), Johnstone RM, Sanders JS, Conselice CJ, Crawford CS, Gallagher JS
3rd, Zweibel E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Astronomy, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HA, UK.
acf@ast.cam.ac.uk

The giant elliptical galaxy NGC 1275, at the centre of the Perseus cluster, is
surrounded by a well-known giant nebulosity of emission-line filaments, which are
plausibly in excess of 10(8) years old. The filaments are dragged out from the
centre of the galaxy by radio-emitting 'bubbles' rising buoyantly in the hot
intracluster gas, before later falling back. They act as markers of the feedback 
process by which energy is transferred from the central massive black hole to the
surrounding gas. The mechanism by which the filaments are stabilized against
tidal shear and dissipation into the surrounding extremely hot (4 x 10(7) K) gas 
has been unclear. Here we report observations that resolve thread-like structures
in the filaments. Some threads extend over 6 kpc, yet are only 70 pc wide. We
conclude that magnetic fields in the threads, in pressure balance with the
surrounding gas, stabilize the filaments, so allowing a large mass of cold gas to
accumulate and delay star formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07169 
PMID: 18719583 


380. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):961-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07182.

PRDM16 controls a brown fat/skeletal muscle switch.

Seale P(1), Bjork B, Yang W, Kajimura S, Chin S, Kuang S, Scimè A, Devarakonda S,
Conroe HM, Erdjument-Bromage H, Tempst P, Rudnicki MA, Beier DR, Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the Department of Cell Biology, Harvard
Medical School, 1 Jimmy Fund Way, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):947-8.

Brown fat can increase energy expenditure and protect against obesity through a
specialized program of uncoupled respiration. Here we show by in vivo fate
mapping that brown, but not white, fat cells arise from precursors that express
Myf5, a gene previously thought to be expressed only in the myogenic lineage. We 
also demonstrate that the transcriptional regulator PRDM16 (PRD1-BF1-RIZ1
homologous domain containing 16) controls a bidirectional cell fate switch
between skeletal myoblasts and brown fat cells. Loss of PRDM16 from brown fat
precursors causes a loss of brown fat characteristics and promotes muscle
differentiation. Conversely, ectopic expression of PRDM16 in myoblasts induces
their differentiation into brown fat cells. PRDM16 stimulates brown adipogenesis 
by binding to PPAR-gamma (peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor-gamma) and
activating its transcriptional function. Finally, Prdm16-deficient brown fat
displays an abnormal morphology, reduced thermogenic gene expression and elevated
expression of muscle-specific genes. Taken together, these data indicate that
PRDM16 specifies the brown fat lineage from a progenitor that expresses myoblast 
markers and is not involved in white adipogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07182 
PMCID: PMC2583329
PMID: 18719582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):955-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07191.

The Trichoplax genome and the nature of placozoans.

Srivastava M(1), Begovic E, Chapman J, Putnam NH, Hellsten U, Kawashima T, Kuo A,
Mitros T, Salamov A, Carpenter ML, Signorovitch AY, Moreno MA, Kamm K, Grimwood
J, Schmutz J, Shapiro H, Grigoriev IV, Buss LW, Schierwater B, Dellaporta SL,
Rokhsar DS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Genomics and Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, 
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. msrivast@berkeley.edu

As arguably the simplest free-living animals, placozoans may represent a
primitive metazoan form, yet their biology is poorly understood. Here we report
the sequencing and analysis of the approximately 98 million base pair nuclear
genome of the placozoan Trichoplax adhaerens. Whole-genome phylogenetic analysis 
suggests that placozoans belong to a 'eumetazoan' clade that includes cnidarians 
and bilaterians, with sponges as the earliest diverging animals. The compact
genome shows conserved gene content, gene structure and synteny in relation to
the human and other complex eumetazoan genomes. Despite the apparent cellular and
organismal simplicity of Trichoplax, its genome encodes a rich array of
transcription factor and signalling pathway genes that are typically associated
with diverse cell types and developmental processes in eumetazoans, motivating
further searches for cryptic cellular complexity and/or as yet unobserved life
history stages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07191 
PMID: 18719581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):995-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07140. Epub 2008 Jul 23.

Spatio-temporal correlations and visual signalling in a complete neuronal
population.

Pillow JW(1), Shlens J, Paninski L, Sher A, Litke AM, Chichilnisky EJ, Simoncelli
EP.

Author information: 
(1)Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, UCL, 17 Queen Square, London WC1N 3AR,
UK. pillow@gatsby.ucl.ac.uk

Statistical dependencies in the responses of sensory neurons govern both the
amount of stimulus information conveyed and the means by which downstream neurons
can extract it. Although a variety of measurements indicate the existence of such
dependencies, their origin and importance for neural coding are poorly
understood. Here we analyse the functional significance of correlated firing in a
complete population of macaque parasol retinal ganglion cells using a model of
multi-neuron spike responses. The model, with parameters fit directly to
physiological data, simultaneously captures both the stimulus dependence and
detailed spatio-temporal correlations in population responses, and provides two
insights into the structure of the neural code. First, neural encoding at the
population level is less noisy than one would expect from the variability of
individual neurons: spike times are more precise, and can be predicted more
accurately when the spiking of neighbouring neurons is taken into account.
Second, correlations provide additional sensory information: optimal, model-based
decoding that exploits the response correlation structure extracts 20% more
information about the visual scene than decoding under the assumption of
independence, and preserves 40% more visual information than optimal linear
decoding. This model-based approach reveals the role of correlated activity in
the retinal coding of visual stimuli, and provides a general framework for
understanding the importance of correlated activity in populations of neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07140 
PMCID: PMC2684455
PMID: 18650810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):1009-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07160. Epub 2008 Jul
23.

Structural mechanism of WASP activation by the enterohaemorrhagic E. coli
effector EspF(U).

Cheng HC(1), Skehan BM, Campellone KG, Leong JM, Rosen MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

During infection, enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) takes over the actin
cytoskeleton of eukaryotic cells by injecting the EspF(U) protein into the host
cytoplasm. EspF(U) controls actin by activating members of the Wiskott-Aldrich
syndrome protein (WASP) family. Here we show that EspF(U) binds to the
autoinhibitory GTPase binding domain (GBD) in WASP proteins and displaces it from
the activity-bearing VCA domain (for verprolin homology, central hydrophobic and 
acidic regions). This interaction potently activates WASP and neural (N)-WASP in 
vitro and induces localized actin assembly in cells. In the solution structure of
the GBD-EspF(U) complex, EspF(U) forms an amphipathic helix that binds the GBD,
mimicking interactions of the VCA domain in autoinhibited WASP. Thus, EspF(U)
activates WASP by competing directly for the VCA binding site on the GBD. This
mechanism is distinct from that used by the eukaryotic activators Cdc42 and SH2
domains, which globally destabilize the GBD fold to release the VCA. Such
diversity of mechanism in WASP proteins is distinct from other multimodular
systems, and may result from the intrinsically unstructured nature of the
isolated GBD and VCA elements. The structural incompatibility of the GBD
complexes with EspF(U) and Cdc42/SH2, plus high-affinity EspF(U) binding, enable 
EHEC to hijack the eukaryotic cytoskeletal machinery effectively.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07160 
PMCID: PMC2719906
PMID: 18650809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):1005-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07170. Epub 2008 Jul 23.

The pathogen protein EspF(U) hijacks actin polymerization using mimicry and
multivalency.

Sallee NA(1), Rivera GM, Dueber JE, Vasilescu D, Mullins RD, Mayer BJ, Lim WA.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Chemistry and Chemical Biology, University of California, 
San Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli attaches to the intestine through actin
pedestals that are formed when the bacterium injects its protein EspF(U) (also
known as TccP) into host cells. EspF(U) potently activates the host WASP
(Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein) family of actin-nucleating factors, which are 
normally activated by the GTPase CDC42, among other signalling molecules. Apart
from its amino-terminal type III secretion signal, EspF(U) consists of
five-and-a-half 47-amino-acid repeats. Here we show that a 17-residue motif
within this EspF(U) repeat is sufficient for interaction with N-WASP (also known 
as WASL). Unlike most pathogen proteins that interface with the cytoskeletal
machinery, this motif does not mimic natural upstream activators: instead of
mimicking an activated state of CDC42, EspF(U) mimics an autoinhibitory element
found within N-WASP. Thus, EspF(U) activates N-WASP by competitively disrupting
the autoinhibited state. By mimicking an internal regulatory element and not the 
natural activator, EspF(U) selectively activates only a precise subset of
CDC42-activated processes. Although one repeat is able to stimulate actin
polymerization, we show that multiple-repeat fragments have notably increased
potency. The activities of these EspF(U) fragments correlate with their ability
to coordinate activation of at least two N-WASP proteins. Thus, this pathogen has
used a simple autoinhibitory fragment as a component to build a highly effective 
actin polymerization machine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07170 
PMCID: PMC2749708
PMID: 18650806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):991-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07174. Epub 2008 Jul 20.

Significant contribution of Archaea to extant biomass in marine subsurface
sediments.

Lipp JS(1), Morono Y, Inagaki F, Hinrichs KU.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Geochemistry Group, Department of Geosciences and MARUM Center for
Marine Environmental Sciences, University of Bremen, PO Box 330 440, 28334
Bremen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):952-3.

Deep drilling into the marine sea floor has uncovered a vast sedimentary
ecosystem of microbial cells. Extrapolation of direct counts of stained microbial
cells to the total volume of habitable marine subsurface sediments suggests that 
between 56 Pg (ref. 1) and 303 Pg (ref. 3) of cellular carbon could be stored in 
this largely unexplored habitat. From recent studies using various
culture-independent techniques, no clear picture has yet emerged as to whether
Archaea or Bacteria are more abundant in this extensive ecosystem. Here we show
that in subsurface sediments buried deeper than 1 m in a wide range of
oceanographic settings at least 87% of intact polar membrane lipids, biomarkers
for the presence of live cells, are attributable to archaeal membranes,
suggesting that Archaea constitute a major fraction of the biomass. Results
obtained from modified quantitative polymerase chain reaction and slot-blot
hybridization protocols support the lipid-based evidence and indicate that these 
techniques have previously underestimated archaeal biomass. The lipid
concentrations are proportional to those of total organic carbon. On the basis of
this relationship, we derived an independent estimate of amounts of cellular
carbon in the global marine subsurface biosphere. Our estimate of 90 Pg of
cellular carbon is consistent, within an order of magnitude, with previous
estimates, and underscores the importance of marine subsurface habitats for
global biomass budgets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07174 
PMID: 18641632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):1014-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07183. Epub 2008 Jul 20.

Cryptochrome mediates light-dependent magnetosensitivity in Drosophila.

Gegear RJ(1), Casselman A, Waddell S, Reppert SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):949-51.

Although many animals use the Earth's magnetic field for orientation and
navigation, the precise biophysical mechanisms underlying magnetic sensing have
been elusive. One theoretical model proposes that geomagnetic fields are
perceived by chemical reactions involving specialized photoreceptors. However,
the specific photoreceptor involved in such magnetoreception has not been
demonstrated conclusively in any animal. Here we show that the
ultraviolet-A/blue-light photoreceptor cryptochrome (Cry) is necessary for
light-dependent magnetosensitive responses in Drosophila melanogaster. In a
binary-choice behavioural assay for magnetosensitivity, wild-type flies show
significant naive and trained responses to a magnetic field under full-spectrum
light ( approximately 300-700 nm) but do not respond to the field when
wavelengths in the Cry-sensitive, ultraviolet-A/blue-light part of the spectrum
(<420 nm) are blocked. Notably, Cry-deficient cry(0) and cry(b) flies do not show
either naive or trained responses to a magnetic field under full-spectrum light. 
Moreover, Cry-dependent magnetosensitivity does not require a functioning
circadian clock. Our work provides, to our knowledge, the first genetic evidence 
for a Cry-based magnetosensitive system in any animal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07183 
PMCID: PMC2559964
PMID: 18641630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 2008 Aug 21;454(7207):1019-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07171. Epub 2008 Jul
16.

Molecular basis of the copulatory plug polymorphism in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Palopoli MF(1), Rockman MV, TinMaung A, Ramsay C, Curwen S, Aduna A, Laurita J,
Kruglyak L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Bowdoin College, 6500 College Station, Brunswick, Maine
04011, USA. mpalopol@bowdoin.edu

Heritable variation is the raw material for evolutionary change, and
understanding its genetic basis is one of the central problems in modern biology.
We investigated the genetic basis of a classic phenotypic dimorphism in the
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Males from many natural isolates deposit a
copulatory plug after mating, whereas males from other natural isolates?including
the standard wild-type strain (N2 Bristol) that is used in most research
laboratories?do not deposit plugs. The copulatory plug is a gelatinous mass that 
covers the hermaphrodite vulva, and its deposition decreases the mating success
of subsequent males. We show that the plugging polymorphism results from the
insertion of a retrotransposon into an exon of a novel mucin-like gene, plg-1,
whose product is a major structural component of the copulatory plug. The gene is
expressed in a subset of secretory cells of the male somatic gonad, and its loss 
has no evident effects beyond the loss of male mate-guarding. Although C. elegans
descends from an obligate-outcrossing, male?female ancestor, it occurs primarily 
as self-fertilizing hermaphrodites. The reduced selection on male?male
competition associated with the origin of hermaphroditism may have permitted the 
global spread of a loss-of-function mutation with restricted pleiotropy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07171 
PMCID: PMC2597896
PMID: 18633349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):907-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07161.

Structural basis for the selectivity of the external thioesterase of the
surfactin synthetase.

Koglin A(1), Löhr F, Bernhard F, Rogov VV, Frueh DP, Strieter ER, Mofid MR,
Güntert P, Wagner G, Walsh CT, Marahiel MA, Dötsch V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biophysical Chemistry and Center for Biomolecular Magnetic
Resonance and Cluster of Excellence Macromolecular Complexes (CEF), J.W.-Goethe
University, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS) and polyketide synthases (PKS) found in 
bacteria, fungi and plants use two different types of thioesterases for the
production of highly active biological compounds. Type I thioesterases (TEI)
catalyse the release step from the assembly line of the final product where it is
transported from one reaction centre to the next as a thioester linked to a
4'-phosphopantetheine (4'-PP) cofactor that is covalently attached to thiolation 
(T) domains. The second enzyme involved in the synthesis of these secondary
metabolites, the type II thioesterase (TEII), is a crucial repair enzyme for the 
regeneration of functional 4'-PP cofactors of holo-T domains of NRPS and PKS
systems. Mispriming of 4'-PP cofactors by acetyl- and short-chain acyl-residues
interrupts the biosynthetic system. This repair reaction is very important,
because roughly 80% of CoA, the precursor of the 4'-PP cofactor, is acetylated in
bacteria. Here we report the three-dimensional structure of a type II
thioesterase from Bacillus subtilis free and in complex with a T domain.
Comparison with structures of TEI enzymes shows the basis for substrate
selectivity and the different modes of interaction of TEII and TEI enzymes with T
domains. Furthermore, we show that the TEII enzyme exists in several
conformations of which only one is selected on interaction with its native
substrate, a modified holo-T domain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07161 
PMCID: PMC2854587
PMID: 18704089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):903-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07162.

Dynamic thiolation-thioesterase structure of a non-ribosomal peptide synthetase.

Frueh DP(1), Arthanari H, Koglin A, Vosburg DA, Bennett AE, Walsh CT, Wagner G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. dominique_frueh@hms.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):832-3.

Non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS) and polyketide synthases (PKS) produce
numerous secondary metabolites with various therapeutic/antibiotic properties.
Like fatty acid synthases (FAS), these enzymes are organized in modular assembly 
lines in which each module, made of conserved domains, incorporates a given
monomer unit into the growing chain. Knowledge about domain or module
interactions may enable reengineering of this assembly line enzymatic
organization and open avenues for the design of new bioactive compounds with
improved therapeutic properties. So far, little structural information has been
available on how the domains interact and communicate. This may be because of
inherent interdomain mobility hindering crystallization, or because crystallized 
molecules may not represent the active domain orientations. In solution, the
large size and internal dynamics of multidomain fragments (>35 kilodaltons) make 
structure determination by nuclear magnetic resonance a challenge and require
advanced technologies. Here we present the solution structure of the
apo-thiolation-thioesterase (T-TE) di-domain fragment of the Escherichia coli
enterobactin synthetase EntF NRPS subunit. In the holoenzyme, the T domain
carries the growing chain tethered to a 4'-phosphopantetheine whereas the TE
domain catalyses hydrolysis and cyclization of the iron chelator enterobactin.
The T-TE di-domain forms a compact but dynamic structure with a well-defined
domain interface; the two active sites are at a suitable distance for substrate
transfer from T to TE. We observe extensive interdomain and intradomain motions
for well-defined regions and show that these are modulated by interactions with
proteins that participate in the biosynthesis. The T-TE interaction described
here provides a model for NRPS, PKS and FAS function in general as T-TE-like
di-domains typically catalyse the last step in numerous assembly-line
chain-termination machineries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07162 
PMCID: PMC2597408
PMID: 18704088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):894-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07199.

Transient FTY720 treatment promotes immune-mediated clearance of a chronic viral 
infection.

Premenko-Lanier M(1), Moseley NB, Pruett ST, Romagnoli PA, Altman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center and Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Yerkes
National Primate Research Center and Emory University School of Medicine, 954
Gatewood Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30329, USA. mflanie@emory.edu

Retraction in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 8;464(7290):942.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):837-8.

For a wide variety of microbial pathogens, the outcome of the infection is
indeterminate. In some individuals the microbe is cleared, but in others it
establishes a chronic infection, and the factors that tip this balance are often 
unknown. In a widely used model of chronic viral infection, C57BL/6 mice clear
the Armstrong strain of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), but the clone 
13 strain persists. Here we show that the Armstrong strain induces a profound
lymphopenia at days 1-3 after infection, but the clone 13 strain does not. If we 
transiently augment lymphopenia by treating the clone-13-infected mice with the
drug FTY720 at days 0-2 after infection, the mice successfully clear the
infection by day 30. Clearance does not occur when CD4 T cells are absent at the 
time of treatment, indicating that the drug is not exerting direct antiviral
effects. Notably, FTY720 treatment of an already established persistent infection
also leads to viral clearance. In both models, FTY720 treatment preserves or
augments LCMV-specific CD4 and CD8 T-cell responses, a result that is
counter-intuitive because FTY720 is generally regarded as a new immunosuppressive
agent. Because FTY720 targets host pathways that are completely evolutionarily
conserved, our results may be translatable into new immunotherapies for the
treatment of chronic microbial infections in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07199 
PMID: 18704087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):886-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07119.

On the spontaneous emergence of cell polarity.

Altschuler SJ(1), Angenent SB, Wang Y, Wu LF.

Author information: 
(1)Green Center for Systems Biology, Department of Pharmacology and Simmons
Cancer Center, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas
75390, USA. steven.altschuler@utsouthwestern.edu

Diverse cell polarity networks require positive feedback for locally amplifying
distributions of signalling molecules at the plasma membrane. Additional
mechanisms, such as directed transport or coupled inhibitors, have been proposed 
to be required for reinforcing a unique axis of polarity. Here we analyse a
simple model of positive feedback, with strong analogy to the 'stepping stone'
model of population genetics, in which a single species of diffusible,
membrane-bound signalling molecules can self-recruit from a cytoplasmic pool. We 
identify an intrinsic stochastic mechanism through which positive feedback alone 
is sufficient to account for the spontaneous establishment of a single site of
polarity. We find that the polarization frequency has an inverse dependence on
the number of signalling molecules: the frequency of polarization decreases as
the number of molecules becomes large. Experimental observation of polarizing
Cdc42 in budding yeast is consistent with this prediction. Our work suggests that
positive feedback can work alone or with additional mechanisms to create robust
cell polarity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07119 
PMCID: PMC2562338
PMID: 18704086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):877-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07084.

Inapparent infections and cholera dynamics.

King AA(1), Ionides EL, Pascual M, Bouma MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA. kingaa@umich.edu

In many infectious diseases, an unknown fraction of infections produce symptoms
mild enough to go unrecorded, a fact that can seriously compromise the
interpretation of epidemiological records. This is true for cholera, a pandemic
bacterial disease, where estimates of the ratio of asymptomatic to symptomatic
infections have ranged from 3 to 100 (refs 1-5). In the absence of direct
evidence, understanding of fundamental aspects of cholera transmission,
immunology and control has been based on assumptions about this ratio and about
the immunological consequences of inapparent infections. Here we show that a
model incorporating high asymptomatic ratio and rapidly waning immunity, with
infection both from human and environmental sources, explains 50 yr of mortality 
data from 26 districts of Bengal, the pathogen's endemic home. We find that the
asymptomatic ratio in cholera is far higher than had been previously supposed and
that the immunity derived from mild infections wanes much more rapidly than
earlier analyses have indicated. We find, too, that the environmental reservoir
(free-living pathogen) is directly responsible for relatively few infections but 
that it may be critical to the disease's endemicity. Our results demonstrate that
inapparent infections can hold the key to interpreting the patterns of disease
outbreaks. New statistical methods, which allow rigorous maximum likelihood
inference based on dynamical models incorporating multiple sources and outcomes
of infection, seasonality, process noise, hidden variables and measurement error,
make it possible to test more precise hypotheses and obtain unexpected results.
Our experience suggests that the confrontation of time-series data with
mechanistic models is likely to revise our understanding of the ecology of many
infectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07084 
PMID: 18704085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):873-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07131.

Inner-core shear-wave anisotropy and texture from an observation of PKJKP waves.

Wookey J(1), Helffrich G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building, 
Queens Road, BS8 1RJ, UK. j.wookey@bristol.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):833-5.

Since the discovery of the Earth's core a century ago, and the subsequent
discovery of a solid inner core (postulated to have formed by the freezing of
iron) seismologists have striven to understand this most remote part of the deep 
Earth. The most direct evidence for a solid inner core would be the observation
of shear-mode body waves that traverse it, but these phases are extremely
difficult to observe. Two reported observations in short-period data have proved 
controversial. Arguably more successful have been studies of longer-period data, 
but such averaging limits the usefulness of the observations to reported
sightings. We present two observations of an inner-core shear-wave phase at
higher frequencies in stacked data from the Japanese High-Sensitivity Array,
Hi-Net. From an analysis of timing, amplitude and waveform of the 'PKJKP' phase
we derive constraints on inner-core compressional-wave velocity and shear
attenuation at about 0.3 Hz which differ from standard isotropic core models. We 
can explain waveform features and can partially reconcile the otherwise large
differences between core wavespeed and attenuation models that our observations
apparently suggest if we invoke shear-wave anisotropy in the inner core. A simple
model of an inner core composed of hexagonal close-packed iron with its c axis
aligned perpendicular to the rotation axis yields anisotropy that is compatible
with both the shear-wave anisotropy that we observe and the well-established 3
per cent compressional-wave anisotropy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07131 
PMID: 18704084 


394. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):869-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07158.

North American ice-sheet dynamics and the onset of 100,000-year glacial cycles.

Bintanja R(1), van de Wal RS.

Author information: 
(1)Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI), Wilhelminalaan 10, 3732 GK 
De Bilt, The Netherlands. bintanja@knmi.nl

The onset of major glaciations in the Northern Hemisphere about 2.7 million years
ago was most probably induced by climate cooling during the late Pliocene epoch. 
These glaciations, during which the Northern Hemisphere ice sheets successively
expanded and retreated, are superimposed on this long-term climate trend, and
have been linked to variations in the Earth's orbital parameters. One intriguing 
problem associated with orbitally driven glacial cycles is the transition from
41,000-year to 100,000-year climatic cycles that occurred without an apparent
change in insolation forcing. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain
the transition, both including and excluding ice-sheet dynamics. Difficulties in 
finding a conclusive answer to this palaeoclimatic problem are related to the
lack of sufficiently long records of ice-sheet volume or sea level. Here we use a
comprehensive ice-sheet model and a simple ocean-temperature model to extract
three-million-year mutually consistent records of surface air temperature, ice
volume and sea level from marine benthic oxygen isotopes. Although these records 
and their relative phasings are subject to considerable uncertainty owing to
limited availability of palaeoclimate constraints, the results suggest that the
gradual emergence of the 100,000-year cycles can be attributed to the increased
ability of the merged North American ice sheets to survive insolation maxima and 
reach continental-scale size. The oversized, wet-based ice sheet probably
responded to the subsequent insolation maximum by rapid thinning through
increased basal-sliding, thereby initiating a glacial termination. Based on our
assessment of the temporal changes in air temperature and ice volume during
individual glacials, we demonstrate the importance of ice dynamics and
ice-climate interactions in establishing the 100,000-year glacial cycles, with
enhanced North American ice-sheet growth and the subsequent merging of the ice
sheets being key elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07158 
PMID: 18704083 


395. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):865-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07193.

Fullerenes from aromatic precursors by surface-catalysed cyclodehydrogenation.

Otero G(1), Biddau G, Sánchez-Sánchez C, Caillard R, López MF, Rogero C,
Palomares FJ, Cabello N, Basanta MA, Ortega J, Méndez J, Echavarren AM, Pérez R, 
Gómez-Lor B, Martín-Gago JA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales de Madrid (CSIC), Cantoblanco, 28049
Madrid, Spain.

Graphite vaporization provides an uncontrolled yet efficient means of producing
fullerene molecules. However, some fullerene derivatives or unusual fullerene
species might only be accessible through rational and controlled synthesis
methods. Recently, such an approach has been used to produce isolable amounts of 
the fullerene C(60) from commercially available starting materials. But the
overall process required 11 steps to generate a suitable polycyclic aromatic
precursor molecule, which was then dehydrogenated in the gas phase with a yield
of only about one per cent. Here we report the formation of C(60) and the
triazafullerene C(57)N(3) from aromatic precursors using a highly efficient
surface-catalysed cyclodehydrogenation process. We find that after deposition
onto a platinum (111) surface and heating to 750 K, the precursors are
transformed into the corresponding fullerene and triazafullerene molecules with
about 100 per cent yield. We expect that this approach will allow the production 
of a range of other fullerenes and heterofullerenes, once suitable precursors are
available. Also, if the process is carried out in an atmosphere containing guest 
species, it might even allow the encapsulation of atoms or small molecules to
form endohedral fullerenes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07193 
PMID: 18704082 


396. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):861-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07121.

Testing the speed of 'spooky action at a distance'.

Salart D(1), Baas A, Branciard C, Gisin N, Zbinden H.

Author information: 
(1)Group of Applied Physics, University of Geneva, 20 Rue de l'Ecole de Médecine,
CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland. daniel.salart@physics.unige.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):831-2.

Correlations are generally described by one of two mechanisms: either a first
event influences a second one by sending information encoded in bosons or other
physical carriers, or the correlated events have some common causes in their
shared history. Quantum physics predicts an entirely different kind of cause for 
some correlations, named entanglement. This reveals itself in correlations that
violate Bell inequalities (implying that they cannot be described by common
causes) between space-like separated events (implying that they cannot be
described by classical communication). Many Bell tests have been performed, and
loopholes related to locality and detection have been closed in several
independent experiments. It is still possible that a first event could influence 
a second, but the speed of this hypothetical influence (Einstein's 'spooky action
at a distance') would need to be defined in some universal privileged reference
frame and be greater than the speed of light. Here we put stringent experimental 
bounds on the speed of all such hypothetical influences. We performed a Bell test
over more than 24 hours between two villages separated by 18 km and approximately
east-west oriented, with the source located precisely in the middle. We
continuously observed two-photon interferences well above the Bell inequality
threshold. Taking advantage of the Earth's rotation, the configuration of our
experiment allowed us to determine, for any hypothetically privileged frame, a
lower bound for the speed of the influence. For example, if such a privileged
reference frame exists and is such that the Earth's speed in this frame is less
than 10(-3) times that of the speed of light, then the speed of the influence
would have to exceed that of light by at least four orders of magnitude.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07121 
PMID: 18704081 


397. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):858-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07154.

Compositional differences between meteorites and near-Earth asteroids.

Vernazza P(1), Binzel RP, Thomas CA, DeMeo FE, Bus SJ, Rivkin AS, Tokunaga AT.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Scientific Support Department, European Space Agency, Keplerlaan 
1, 2201 AZ Noordwijk, The Netherlands. pierre.vernazza@esa.int

Understanding the nature and origin of the asteroid population in Earth's
vicinity (near-Earth asteroids, and its subset of potentially hazardous
asteroids) is a matter of both scientific interest and practical importance. It
is generally expected that the compositions of the asteroids that are most likely
to hit Earth should reflect those of the most common meteorites. Here we report
that most near-Earth asteroids (including the potentially hazardous subset) have 
spectral properties quantitatively similar to the class of meteorites known as LL
chondrites. The prominent Flora family in the inner part of the asteroid belt
shares the same spectral properties, suggesting that it is a dominant source of
near-Earth asteroids. The observed similarity of near-Earth asteroids to LL
chondrites is, however, surprising, as this meteorite class is relatively rare ( 
approximately 8 per cent of all meteorite falls). One possible explanation is the
role of a size-dependent process, such as the Yarkovsky effect, in transporting
material from the main belt.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07154 
PMID: 18704080 


398. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):841-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07190.

Genomics of cellulosic biofuels.

Rubin EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)DOE Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive, Walnut Creek, California
94598, USA. emrubin@lbl.gov

The development of alternatives to fossil fuels as an energy source is an urgent 
global priority. Cellulosic biomass has the potential to contribute to meeting
the demand for liquid fuel, but land-use requirements and process inefficiencies 
represent hurdles for large-scale deployment of biomass-to-biofuel technologies. 
Genomic information gathered from across the biosphere, including potential
energy crops and microorganisms able to break down biomass, will be vital for
improving the prospects of significant cellulosic biofuel production.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07190 
PMID: 18704079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):846-51. doi: 10.1038/nature07181. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

UCP2 mediates ghrelin's action on NPY/AgRP neurons by lowering free radicals.

Andrews ZB(1), Liu ZW, Walllingford N, Erion DM, Borok E, Friedman JM, Tschöp MH,
Shanabrough M, Cline G, Shulman GI, Coppola A, Gao XB, Horvath TL, Diano S.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Medicine, Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology &
Reproductive Sciences, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York, New York 10021,
USA.

The gut-derived hormone ghrelin exerts its effect on the brain by regulating
neuronal activity. Ghrelin-induced feeding behaviour is controlled by arcuate
nucleus neurons that co-express neuropeptide Y and agouti-related protein
(NPY/AgRP neurons). However, the intracellular mechanisms triggered by ghrelin to
alter NPY/AgRP neuronal activity are poorly understood. Here we show that ghrelin
initiates robust changes in hypothalamic mitochondrial respiration in mice that
are dependent on uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2). Activation of this mitochondrial
mechanism is critical for ghrelin-induced mitochondrial proliferation and
electric activation of NPY/AgRP neurons, for ghrelin-triggered synaptic
plasticity of pro-opiomelanocortin-expressing neurons, and for ghrelin-induced
food intake. The UCP2-dependent action of ghrelin on NPY/AgRP neurons is driven
by a hypothalamic fatty acid oxidation pathway involving AMPK, CPT1 and free
radicals that are scavenged by UCP2. These results reveal a signalling modality
connecting mitochondria-mediated effects of G-protein-coupled receptors on
neuronal function and associated behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07181 
PMCID: PMC4101536
PMID: 18668043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):881-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07150. Epub 2008 Jul 16.

Internal brain state regulates membrane potential synchrony in barrel cortex of
behaving mice.

Poulet JF(1), Petersen CC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Processing, Brain Mind Institute, Faculty of Life
Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):839-40.

Internal brain states form key determinants for sensory perception, sensorimotor 
coordination and learning. A prominent reflection of different brain states in
the mammalian central nervous system is the presence of distinct patterns of
cortical synchrony, as revealed by extracellular recordings of the
electroencephalogram, local field potential and action potentials. Such temporal 
correlations of cortical activity are thought to be fundamental mechanisms of
neuronal computation. However, it is unknown how cortical synchrony is reflected 
in the intracellular membrane potential (V(m)) dynamics of behaving animals. Here
we show, using dual whole-cell recordings from layer 2/3 primary somatosensory
barrel cortex in behaving mice, that the V(m) of nearby neurons is highly
correlated during quiet wakefulness. However, when the mouse is whisking, an
internally generated state change reduces the V(m) correlation, resulting in a
desynchronized local field potential and electroencephalogram. Action potential
activity was sparse during both quiet wakefulness and active whisking. Single
action potentials were driven by a large, brief and specific excitatory input
that was not present in the V(m) of neighbouring cells. Action potential
initiation occurs with a higher signal-to-noise ratio during active whisking than
during quiet periods. Therefore, we show that an internal brain state dynamically
regulates cortical membrane potential synchrony during behaviour and defines
different modes of cortical processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07150 
PMID: 18633351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):899-902. doi: 10.1038/nature07117. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

A discontinuous hammerhead ribozyme embedded in a mammalian messenger RNA.

Martick M(1), Horan LH, Noller HF, Scott WG.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Biology of RNA, University of California, Santa Cruz,
California 95064, USA. mmartick@yahoo.com

Structured RNAs embedded in the untranslated regions (UTRs) of messenger RNAs can
regulate gene expression. In bacteria, control of a metabolite gene is mediated
by the self-cleaving activity of a ribozyme embedded in its 5' UTR. This
discovery has raised the question of whether gene-regulating ribozymes also exist
in eukaryotic mRNAs. Here we show that highly active hammerhead ribozymes are
present in the 3' UTRs of rodent C-type lectin type II (Clec2) genes. Using a
hammerhead RNA motif search with relaxed delimitation of the non-conserved
regions, we detected ribozyme sequences in which the invariant regions, in
contrast to the previously identified continuous hammerheads, occur as two
fragments separated by hundreds of nucleotides. Notably, a fragment pair can
assemble to form an active hammerhead ribozyme structure between the translation 
termination and the polyadenylation signals within the 3' UTR. We demonstrate
that this hammerhead structure can self-cleave both in vitro and in vivo, and is 
able to reduce protein expression in mouse cells. These results indicate that an 
unrecognized mechanism of post-transcriptional gene regulation involving
association of discontinuous ribozyme sequences within an mRNA may be modulating 
the expression of several CLEC2 proteins that function in bone remodelling and
the immune response of several mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07117 
PMCID: PMC2612532
PMID: 18615019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):890-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07151. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Drosophila RNAi screen identifies host genes important for influenza virus
replication.

Hao L(1), Sakurai A, Watanabe T, Sorensen E, Nidom CA, Newton MA, Ahlquist P,
Kawaoka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular Virology, USA.

All viruses rely on host cell proteins and their associated mechanisms to
complete the viral life cycle. Identifying the host molecules that participate in
each step of virus replication could provide valuable new targets for antiviral
therapy, but this goal may take several decades to achieve with conventional
forward genetic screening methods and mammalian cell cultures. Here we describe a
novel genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi) screen in Drosophila that can be used
to identify host genes important for influenza virus replication. After modifying
influenza virus to allow infection of Drosophila cells and detection of influenza
virus gene expression, we tested an RNAi library against 13,071 genes (90% of the
Drosophila genome), identifying over 100 for which suppression in Drosophila
cells significantly inhibited or stimulated reporter gene (Renilla luciferase)
expression from an influenza-virus-derived vector. The relevance of these
findings to influenza virus infection of mammalian cells is illustrated for a
subset of the Drosophila genes identified; that is, for three implicated
Drosophila genes, the corresponding human homologues ATP6V0D1, COX6A1 and NXF1
are shown to have key functions in the replication of H5N1 and H1N1 influenza A
viruses, but not vesicular stomatitis virus or vaccinia virus, in human HEK 293
cells. Thus, we have demonstrated the feasibility of using genome-wide RNAi
screens in Drosophila to identify previously unrecognized host proteins that are 
required for influenza virus replication. This could accelerate the development
of new classes of antiviral drugs for chemoprophylaxis and treatment, which are
urgently needed given the obstacles to rapid development of an effective vaccine 
against pandemic influenza and the probable emergence of strains resistant to
available drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07151 
PMCID: PMC2574945
PMID: 18615016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2008 Aug 14;454(7206):852-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07115. Epub 2008 Jul 2.

Structural basis for translation termination on the 70S ribosome.

Laurberg M(1), Asahara H, Korostelev A, Zhu J, Trakhanov S, Noller HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology and Center for
Molecular Biology of RNA, University of California at Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz,
California 95064, USA.

At termination of protein synthesis, type I release factors promote hydrolysis of
the peptidyl-transfer RNA linkage in response to recognition of a stop codon.
Here we describe the crystal structure of the Thermus thermophilus 70S ribosome
in complex with the release factor RF1, tRNA and a messenger RNA containing a UAA
stop codon, at 3.2 A resolution. The stop codon is recognized in a pocket formed 
by conserved elements of RF1, including its PxT recognition motif, and 16S
ribosomal RNA. The codon and the 30S subunit A site undergo an induced fit that
results in stabilization of a conformation of RF1 that promotes its interaction
with the peptidyl transferase centre. Unexpectedly, the main-chain amide group of
Gln 230 in the universally conserved GGQ motif of the factor is positioned to
contribute directly to peptidyl-tRNA hydrolysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07115 
PMID: 18596689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):758-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07109.

Thermochemical flows couple the Earth's inner core growth to mantle
heterogeneity.

Aubert J(1), Amit H, Hulot G, Olson P.

Author information: 
(1)Dynamique des Fluides Géologiques, Université Paris-Diderot, INSU/CNRS, 4,
Place Jussieu, 75252, Paris cedex 05, France. aubert@ipgp.jussieu.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):701-2.

Seismic waves sampling the top 100 km of the Earth's inner core reveal that the
eastern hemisphere (40 degrees E-180 degrees E) is seismically faster, more
isotropic and more attenuating than the western hemisphere. The origin of this
hemispherical dichotomy is a challenging problem for our understanding of the
Earth as a system of dynamically coupled layers. Previously, laboratory
experiments have established that thermal control from the lower mantle can
drastically affect fluid flow in the outer core, which in turn can induce
textural heterogeneity on the inner core solidification front. The resulting
texture should be consistent with other expected manifestations of thermal mantle
control on the geodynamo, specifically magnetic flux concentrations in the
time-average palaeomagnetic field over the past 5 Myr, and preferred eddy
locations in flows imaged below the core-mantle boundary by the analysis of
historical geomagnetic secular variation. Here we show that a single model of
thermochemical convection and dynamo action can account for all these effects by 
producing a large-scale, long-term outer core flow that couples the heterogeneity
of the inner core with that of the lower mantle. The main feature of this
thermochemical 'wind' is a cyclonic circulation below Asia, which concentrates
magnetic field on the core-mantle boundary at the observed location and locally
agrees with core flow images. This wind also causes anomalously high rates of
light element release in the eastern hemisphere of the inner core boundary,
suggesting that lateral seismic anomalies at the top of the inner core result
from mantle-induced variations in its freezing rate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07109 
PMID: 18685706 


405. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):754-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07138.

Rapid change in drift of the Australian plate records collision with Ontong Java 
plateau.

Knesel KM(1), Cohen BE, Vasconcelos PM, Thiede DS.

Author information: 
(1)Earth Sciences, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland, 4072,
Australia. k.knesel@uq.edu.au

The subduction of oceanic plateaux, which contain extraordinarily thick basaltic 
crust and are the marine counterparts of continental flood-basalt provinces, is
an important factor in many current models of plate motion and provides a
potential mechanism for triggering plate reorganization. To evaluate such models,
it is essential to decipher the history of the collision between the largest and 
thickest of the world's oceanic plateaux, the Ontong Java plateau, and the
Australian plate, but this has been hindered by poor constraints for the arrival 
of the plateau at the Melanesian trench. Here we present (40)Ar-(39)Ar
geochronological data on hotspot volcanoes in eastern Australian that reveal a
strong link between collision of the Greenland-sized Ontong Java plateau with the
Melanesian arc and motion of the Australian plate. The new ages define a
short-lived period of reduced northward plate motion between 26 and 23 Myr ago,
coincident with an eastward offset in the contemporaneous tracks of seamount
chains in the Tasman Sea east of Australia. These features record a brief
westward deflection of the Australian plate as the plateau entered and choked the
Melanesian trench 26 Myr ago. From 23 Myr ago, Australia returned to a rapid
northerly trajectory at roughly the same time that southwest-directed subduction 
began along the Trobriand trough. The timing and brevity of this collisional
event correlate well with offsets in hotspot seamount tracks on the Pacific
plate, including the archetypal Hawaiian chain, and thus provide strong evidence 
that immense oceanic plateaux, like the Ontong Java, can contribute to initiating
rapid change in plate boundaries and motions on a global scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07138 
PMID: 18685705 


406. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):748-53. doi: 10.1038/nature07113.

A hemispherical electronic eye camera based on compressible silicon
optoelectronics.

Ko HC(1), Stoykovich MP, Song J, Malyarchuk V, Choi WM, Yu CJ, Geddes JB 3rd,
Xiao J, Wang S, Huang Y, Rogers JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):703-4.

The human eye is a remarkable imaging device, with many attractive design
features. Prominent among these is a hemispherical detector geometry, similar to 
that found in many other biological systems, that enables a wide field of view
and low aberrations with simple, few-component imaging optics. This type of
configuration is extremely difficult to achieve using established optoelectronics
technologies, owing to the intrinsically planar nature of the patterning,
deposition, etching, materials growth and doping methods that exist for
fabricating such systems. Here we report strategies that avoid these limitations,
and implement them to yield high-performance, hemispherical electronic eye
cameras based on single-crystalline silicon. The approach uses wafer-scale
optoelectronics formed in unusual, two-dimensionally compressible configurations 
and elastomeric transfer elements capable of transforming the planar layouts in
which the systems are initially fabricated into hemispherical geometries for
their final implementation. In a general sense, these methods, taken together
with our theoretical analyses of their associated mechanics, provide practical
routes for integrating well-developed planar device technologies onto the
surfaces of complex curvilinear objects, suitable for diverse applications that
cannot be addressed by conventional means.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07113 
PMID: 18685704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):744-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07172.

Using photoemission spectroscopy to probe a strongly interacting Fermi gas.

Stewart JT(1), Gaebler JP, Jin DS.

Author information: 
(1)JILA, Quantum Physics Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology
and Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, 
USA.

Ultracold atomic gases provide model systems in which to study many-body quantum 
physics. Recent experiments using Fermi gases have demonstrated a phase
transition to a superfluid state with strong interparticle interactions. This
system provides a realization of the 'BCS-BEC crossover' connecting the physics
of Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) superconductivity with that of Bose-Einstein
condensates (BECs). Although many aspects of this system have been investigated, 
it has not yet been possible to measure the single-particle excitation spectrum
(a fundamental property directly predicted by many-body theories). Here we use
photoemission spectroscopy to directly probe the elementary excitations and
energy dispersion in a strongly interacting Fermi gas of (40)K atoms. In the
experiments, a radio-frequency photon ejects an atom from the strongly
interacting system by means of a spin-flip transition to a weakly interacting
state. We measure the occupied density of single-particle states at the cusp of
the BCS-BEC crossover and on the BEC side of the crossover, and compare these
results to that for a nearly ideal Fermi gas. We show that, near the critical
temperature, the single-particle spectral function is dramatically altered in a
way that is consistent with a large pairing gap. Our results probe the many-body 
physics in a way that could be compared to data for the
high-transition-temperature superconductors. As in photoemission spectroscopy for
electronic materials, our measurement technique for ultracold atomic gases
directly probes low-energy excitations and thus can reveal excitation gaps and/or
pseudogaps. Furthermore, this technique can provide an analogue of angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy for probing anisotropic systems, such as atoms in
optical lattice potentials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07172 
PMID: 18685703 


408. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):739-43. doi: 10.1038/nature07176.

Determination of the fermion pair size in a resonantly interacting superfluid.

Schunck CH(1), Shin YI, Schirotzek A, Ketterle W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, MIT-Harvard Center for Ultracold Atoms, and Research
Laboratory of Electronics, MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. chs@mit.edu

Fermionic superfluidity requires the formation of particle pairs, the size of
which varies from the femtometre scale in neutron stars and nuclei to the
micrometre scale in conventional superconductors. Many properties of the
superfluid depend on the pair size relative to the interparticle spacing. This is
expressed in 'BCS-BEC crossover' theories, describing the crossover from a
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS)-type superfluid of loosely bound, large Cooper
pairs to Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) of tightly bound molecules. Such a
crossover superfluid has been realized in ultracold atomic gases where
high-temperature superfluidity has been observed. The microscopic properties of
the fermion pairs can be probed using radio-frequency spectroscopy. However,
previous work was difficult to interpret owing to strong final-state interactions
that were not well understood. Here we realize a superfluid spin mixture in which
such interactions have negligible influence and present fermion pair dissociation
spectra that reveal the underlying pairing correlations. This allows us to
determine that the spectroscopic pair size in the resonantly interacting gas is
20 per cent smaller than the interparticle spacing. These are the smallest pairs 
so far observed in fermionic superfluids, highlighting the importance of small
fermion pairs for superfluidity at high critical temperatures. We have also
identified transitions from fermion pairs to bound molecular states and to
many-body bound states in the case of strong final-state interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07176 
PMID: 18685702 


409. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):735-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07153.

Clumps and streams in the local dark matter distribution.

Diemand J(1), Kuhlen M, Madau P, Zemp M, Moore B, Potter D, Stadel J.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Santa
Cruz, California 95064, USA. diemand@ucolick.org

In cold dark matter cosmological models, structures form and grow through the
merging of smaller units. Numerical simulations have shown that such merging is
incomplete; the inner cores of haloes survive and orbit as 'subhaloes' within
their hosts. Here we report a simulation that resolves such substructure even in 
the very inner regions of the Galactic halo. We find hundreds of very
concentrated dark matter clumps surviving near the solar circle, as well as
numerous cold streams. The simulation also reveals the fractal nature of dark
matter clustering: isolated haloes and subhaloes contain the same relative amount
of substructure and both have cusped inner density profiles. The inner mass and
phase-space densities of subhaloes match those of recently discovered faint,
dark-matter-dominated dwarf satellite galaxies, and the overall amount of
substructure can explain the anomalous flux ratios seen in strong gravitational
lenses. Subhaloes boost gamma-ray production from dark matter annihilation by
factors of 4 to 15 relative to smooth galactic models. Local cosmic ray
production is also enhanced, typically by a factor of 1.4 but by a factor of more
than 10 in one per cent of locations lying sufficiently close to a large subhalo.
(These estimates assume that the gravitational effects of baryons on dark matter 
substructure are small.).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07153 
PMID: 18685701 


410. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):717-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07219.

Secreted transcription factor controls Mycobacterium tuberculosis virulence.

Raghavan S(1), Manzanillo P, Chan K, Dovey C, Cox JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Program in Microbial Pathogenesis
and Host Defense, University of California, San Francisco, 600 16th Street,
Campus Box 2200, San Francisco, California 94143-2200, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):702-3.

Bacterial pathogens trigger specialized virulence factor secretion systems on
encountering host cells. The ESX-1 protein secretion system of Mycobacterium
tuberculosis-the causative agent of the human disease tuberculosis-delivers
bacterial proteins into host cells during infection and is critical for
virulence, but how it is regulated is unknown. Here we show that EspR (also known
as Rv3849) is a key regulator of ESX-1 that is required for secretion and
virulence in mice. EspR activates transcription of an operon that includes three 
ESX-1 components, Rv3616c-Rv3614c, whose expression in turn promotes secretion of
ESX-1 substrates. EspR directly binds to and activates the Rv3616c-Rv3614c
promoter and, unexpectedly, is itself secreted from the bacterial cell by the
ESX-1 system that it regulates. Efflux of the DNA-binding regulator results in
reduced Rv3616c-Rv3614c transcription, and thus reduced ESX-1 secretion. Our
results reveal a direct negative feedback loop that regulates the activity of a
secretion system essential for virulence. As the virulence factors secreted by
the ESX-1 system are highly antigenic, fine control of secretion may be critical 
to successful infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07219 
PMCID: PMC2862998
PMID: 18685700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):728-34. doi: 10.1038/nature07212. Epub 2008 Jul 27.

A mechanism for asymmetric segregation of age during yeast budding.

Shcheprova Z(1), Baldi S, Frei SB, Gonnet G, Barral Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Biology Department, ETH Zurich, Schafmattstrasse
18, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):709-10.
    Nature. 2010 Jul 22;466(7305):E1.

Ageing and the mortality that ensues are sustainable for the species only if age 
is reset in newborns. In budding yeast, buds are made young whereas ageing
factors, such as carbonylated proteins and DNA circles, remain confined to the
ageing mother cell. The mechanisms of this confinement and their relevance are
poorly understood. Here we show that a septin-dependent, lateral diffusion
barrier forms in the nuclear envelope and limits the translocation of
pre-existing nuclear pores into the bud. The retention of DNA circles within the 
mother cell depends on the presence of the diffusion barrier and on the anchorage
of the circles to pores mediated by the nuclear basket. In accordance with the
diffusion barrier ensuring the asymmetric segregation of nuclear
age-determinants, the barrier mutant bud6Delta fails to properly reset age in
buds. Our data involve septin-dependent diffusion barriers in the confinement of 
ageing factors to one daughter cell during asymmetric cell division.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07212 
PMID: 18660802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):722-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07139. Epub 2008 Jul 16.

On the nature of partial agonism in the nicotinic receptor superfamily.

Lape R(1), Colquhoun D, Sivilotti LG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University College London, Medical Sciences
Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):704-5.

Partial agonists are ligands that bind to receptors but produce only a small
maximum response even at concentrations where all receptors are occupied. In the 
case of ligand-activated ion channels, it has been supposed since 1957 that
partial agonists evoke a small response because they are inefficient at eliciting
the change of conformation between shut and open states of the channel. We have
investigated partial agonists for two members of the nicotinic superfamily-the
muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and the glycine receptor-and find that
the open-shut reaction is similar for both full and partial agonists, but the
response to partial agonists is limited by an earlier conformation change
('flipping') that takes place while the channel is still shut. This has
implications for the interpretation of structural studies, and in the future, for
the design of partial agonists for therapeutic use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07139 
PMCID: PMC2629928
PMID: 18633353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):784-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07104. Epub 2008 Jul 6.

Minimally invasive high-speed imaging of sarcomere contractile dynamics in mice
and humans.

Llewellyn ME(1), Barretto RP, Delp SL, Schnitzer MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Bio-X Program, James H. Clark Center for Biomedical Engineering & Sciences,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Sarcomeres are the basic contractile units of striated muscle. Our knowledge
about sarcomere dynamics has primarily come from in vitro studies of muscle
fibres and analysis of optical diffraction patterns obtained from living muscles.
Both approaches involve highly invasive procedures and neither allows examination
of individual sarcomeres in live subjects. Here we report direct visualization of
individual sarcomeres and their dynamical length variations using minimally
invasive optical microendoscopy to observe second-harmonic frequencies of light
generated in the muscle fibres of live mice and humans. Using microendoscopes as 
small as 350 microm in diameter, we imaged individual sarcomeres in both passive 
and activated muscle. Our measurements permit in vivo characterization of
sarcomere length changes that occur with alterations in body posture and
visualization of local variations in sarcomere length not apparent in aggregate
length determinations. High-speed data acquisition enabled observation of
sarcomere contractile dynamics with millisecond-scale resolution. These
experiments point the way to in vivo imaging studies demonstrating how sarcomere 
performance varies with physical conditioning and physiological state, as well as
imaging diagnostics revealing how neuromuscular diseases affect contractile
dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07104 
PMCID: PMC2826360
PMID: 18600262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):766-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07107. Epub 2008 Jul 6.

Genome-scale DNA methylation maps of pluripotent and differentiated cells.

Meissner A(1), Mikkelsen TS, Gu H, Wernig M, Hanna J, Sivachenko A, Zhang X,
Bernstein BE, Nusbaum C, Jaffe DB, Gnirke A, Jaenisch R, Lander ES.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

DNA methylation is essential for normal development and has been implicated in
many pathologies including cancer. Our knowledge about the genome-wide
distribution of DNA methylation, how it changes during cellular differentiation
and how it relates to histone methylation and other chromatin modifications in
mammals remains limited. Here we report the generation and analysis of
genome-scale DNA methylation profiles at nucleotide resolution in mammalian
cells. Using high-throughput reduced representation bisulphite sequencing and
single-molecule-based sequencing, we generated DNA methylation maps covering most
CpG islands, and a representative sampling of conserved non-coding elements,
transposons and other genomic features, for mouse embryonic stem cells,
embryonic-stem-cell-derived and primary neural cells, and eight other primary
tissues. Several key findings emerge from the data. First, DNA methylation
patterns are better correlated with histone methylation patterns than with the
underlying genome sequence context. Second, methylation of CpGs are dynamic
epigenetic marks that undergo extensive changes during cellular differentiation, 
particularly in regulatory regions outside of core promoters. Third, analysis of 
embryonic-stem-cell-derived and primary cells reveals that 'weak' CpG islands
associated with a specific set of developmentally regulated genes undergo
aberrant hypermethylation during extended proliferation in vitro, in a pattern
reminiscent of that reported in some primary tumours. More generally, the results
establish reduced representation bisulphite sequencing as a powerful technology
for epigenetic profiling of cell populations relevant to developmental biology,
cancer and regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07107 
PMCID: PMC2896277
PMID: 18600261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):789-93. doi: 10.1038/nature07089. Epub 2008 Jul 2.

Crystal structure of the neurotrophin-3 and p75NTR symmetrical complex.

Gong Y(1), Cao P, Yu HJ, Jiang T.

Author information: 
(1)National Key Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, 15 Datun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100101, China.

Neurotrophins (NTs) are important regulators for the survival, differentiation
and maintenance of different peripheral and central neurons. NTs bind to two
distinct classes of glycosylated receptor: the p75 neurotrophin receptor
(p75(NTR)) and tyrosine kinase receptors (Trks). Whereas p75(NTR) binds to all
NTs, the Trk subtypes are specific for each NT. The question of whether NTs
stimulate p75(NTR) by inducing receptor homodimerization is still under debate.
Here we report the 2.6-A resolution crystal structure of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3)
complexed to the ectodomain of glycosylated p75(NTR). In contrast to the
previously reported asymmetric complex structure, which contains a dimer of nerve
growth factor (NGF) bound to a single ectodomain of deglycosylated p75(NTR) (ref.
3), we show that NT-3 forms a central homodimer around which two glycosylated
p75(NTR) molecules bind symmetrically. Symmetrical binding occurs along the NT-3 
interfaces, resulting in a 2:2 ligand-receptor cluster. A comparison of the
symmetrical and asymmetric structures reveals significant differences in
ligand-receptor interactions and p75(NTR) conformations. Biochemical experiments 
indicate that both NT-3 and NGF bind to p75(NTR) with 2:2 stoichiometry in
solution, whereas the 2:1 complexes are the result of artificial deglycosylation.
We therefore propose that the symmetrical 2:2 complex reflects a native state of 
p75(NTR) activation at the cell surface. These results provide a model for
NTs-p75(NTR) recognition and signal generation, as well as insights into
coordination between p75(NTR) and Trks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07089 
PMID: 18596692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):780-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07103. Epub 2008 Jul 2.

MicroRNAs expressed by herpes simplex virus 1 during latent infection regulate
viral mRNAs.

Umbach JL(1), Kramer MF, Jurak I, Karnowski HW, Coen DM, Cullen BR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology and Center for Virology,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Herpesviruses are characterized by their ability to maintain life-long latent
infections in their animal hosts. However, the mechanisms that allow
establishment and maintenance of the latent state remain poorly understood.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) establishes latency in neurons of sensory ganglia,
where the only abundant viral gene product is a non-coding RNA, the latency
associated transcript (LAT). Here we show that LAT functions as a primary
microRNA (miRNA) precursor that encodes four distinct miRNAs in HSV-1 infected
cells. One of these miRNAs, miR-H2-3p, is transcribed in an antisense orientation
to ICP0-a viral immediate-early transcriptional activator that is important for
productive HSV-1 replication and thought to have a role in reactivation from
latency. We show that miR-H2-3p is able to reduce ICP0 protein expression, but
does not significantly affect ICP0 messenger RNA levels. We also identified a
fifth HSV-1 miRNA in latently infected trigeminal ganglia, miR-H6, which derives 
from a previously unknown transcript distinct from LAT. miR-H6 shows extended
seed complementarity to the mRNA encoding a second HSV-1 transcription factor,
ICP4, and inhibits expression of ICP4, which is required for expression of most
HSV-1 genes during productive infection. These results may explain the reported
ability of LAT to promote latency. Thus, HSV-1 expresses at least two primary
miRNA precursors in latently infected neurons that may facilitate the
establishment and maintenance of viral latency by post-transcriptionally
regulating viral gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07103 
PMCID: PMC2666538
PMID: 18596690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):771-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07090. Epub 2008 Jun 29.

cAMP signalling in mushroom bodies modulates temperature preference behaviour in 
Drosophila.

Hong ST(1), Bang S, Hyun S, Kang J, Jeong K, Paik D, Chung J, Kim J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science &
Technology, Guseong-Dong, Yusong-Gu, Daejeon, 305-701, Korea.

Homoiotherms, for example mammals, regulate their body temperature with
physiological responses such as a change of metabolic rate and sweating. In
contrast, the body temperature of poikilotherms, for example Drosophila, is the
result of heat exchange with the surrounding environment as a result of the large
ratio of surface area to volume of their bodies. Accordingly, these animals must 
instinctively move to places with an environmental temperature as close as
possible to their genetically determined desired temperature. The temperature
that Drosophila instinctively prefers has a function equivalent to the 'set
point' temperature in mammals. Although various temperature-gated TRP channels
have been discovered, molecular and cellular components in Drosophila brain
responsible for determining the desired temperature remain unknown. We identified
these components by performing a large-scale genetic screen of temperature
preference behaviour (TPB) in Drosophila. In parallel, we mapped areas of the
Drosophila brain controlling TPB by targeted inactivation of neurons with tetanus
toxin and a potassium channel (Kir2.1) driven with various brain-specific GAL4s. 
Here we show that mushroom bodies (MBs) and the cyclic AMP-cAMP-dependent protein
kinase A (cAMP-PKA) pathway are essential for controlling TPB. Furthermore,
targeted expression of cAMP-PKA pathway components in only the MB was sufficient 
to rescue abnormal TPB of the corresponding mutants. Preferred temperatures were 
affected by the level of cAMP and PKA activity in the MBs in various PKA pathway 
mutants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07090 
PMID: 18594510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):776-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07091. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

Essential roles of PI(3)K-p110beta in cell growth, metabolism and tumorigenesis.

Jia S(1), Liu Z, Zhang S, Liu P, Zhang L, Lee SH, Zhang J, Signoretti S, Loda M, 
Roberts TM, Zhao JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 May 12;533(7602):278.

On activation by receptors, the ubiquitously expressed class IA isoforms
(p110alpha and p110beta) of phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K) generate
lipid second messengers, which initiate multiple signal transduction cascades.
Recent studies have demonstrated specific functions for p110alpha in growth
factor and insulin signalling. To probe for distinct functions of p110beta, we
constructed conditional knockout mice. Here we show that ablation of p110beta in 
the livers of the resulting mice leads to impaired insulin sensitivity and
glucose homeostasis, while having little effect on phosphorylation of Akt,
suggesting the involvement of a kinase-independent role of p110beta in insulin
metabolic action. Using established mouse embryonic fibroblasts, we found that
removal of p110beta also had little effect on Akt phosphorylation in response to 
stimulation by insulin and epidermal growth factor, but resulted in retarded cell
proliferation. Reconstitution of p110beta-null cells with a wild-type or
kinase-dead allele of p110beta demonstrated that p110beta possesses
kinase-independent functions in regulating cell proliferation and trafficking.
However, the kinase activity of p110beta was required for G-protein-coupled
receptor signalling triggered by lysophosphatidic acid and had a function in
oncogenic transformation. Most strikingly, in an animal model of prostate tumour 
formation induced by Pten loss, ablation of p110beta (also known as Pik3cb), but 
not that of p110alpha (also known as Pik3ca), impeded tumorigenesis with a
concomitant diminution of Akt phosphorylation. Taken together, our findings
demonstrate both kinase-dependent and kinase-independent functions for p110beta, 
and strongly indicate the kinase-dependent functions of p110beta as a promising
target in cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07091 
PMCID: PMC2750091
PMID: 18594509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):762-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07092. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

Escape from adaptive conflict after duplication in an anthocyanin pathway gene.

Des Marais DL(1), Rausher MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and University Program in Genetics and Genomics, Box
90338, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708-0338, USA. dld3@duke.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):E1; discussion E2-3.

Gene duplications have been recognized as an important source of evolutionary
innovation and adaptation since at least Haldane, and their varying fates may
partly explain the vast disparity in observed genome sizes. The expected fates of
most gene duplications involve primarily non-adaptive substitutions leading to
either non-functionalization of one duplicate copy or subfunctionalization,
neither of which yields novel function. A significant evolutionary problem is
thus elucidating the mechanisms of adaptive evolutionary change leading to
evolutionary novelty. Currently, the most widely recognized adaptive process
involving gene duplication is neo-functionalization (NEO-F), in which one copy
undergoes directional selection to perform a novel function after duplication. An
alternative, but understudied, adaptive fate that has been proposed is escape
from adaptive conflict (EAC), in which a single-copy gene is selected to perform 
a novel function while maintaining its ancestral function. This gene is
constrained from improving either novel or ancestral function because of
detrimental pleiotropic effects on the other function. After duplication, one
copy is free to improve novel function, whereas the other is selected to improve 
ancestral function. Here we first present two criteria that can be used to
distinguish NEO-F from EAC. Using both tests for positive selection and assays of
enzyme function, we then demonstrate that adaptive evolutionary change in a
duplicated gene of the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway in morning glories
(Ipomoea) is best interpreted as EAC. Finally, we argue that this phenomenon
likely occurs more often than has been previously believed and may thus represent
an important mechanism in generating evolutionary novelty.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07092 
PMID: 18594508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):634-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07053.

The abundance threshold for plague as a critical percolation phenomenon.

Davis S(1), Trapman P, Leirs H, Begon M, Heesterbeek JA.

Author information: 
(1)Theoretical Epidemiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Utrecht, Yalelaan 7, 3584 CL Utrecht, The Netherlands. S.A.Davis@uu.nl

Percolation theory is most commonly associated with the slow flow of liquid
through a porous medium, with applications to the physical sciences.
Epidemiological applications have been anticipated for disease systems where the 
host is a plant or volume of soil, and hence is fixed in space. However, no
natural examples have been reported. The central question of interest in
percolation theory, the possibility of an infinite connected cluster, corresponds
in infectious disease to a positive probability of an epidemic. Archived records 
of plague (infection with Yersinia pestis) in populations of great gerbils
(Rhombomys opimus) in Kazakhstan have been used to show that epizootics only
occur when more than about 0.33 of the burrow systems built by the host are
occupied by family groups. The underlying mechanism for this abundance threshold 
is unknown. Here we present evidence that it is a percolation threshold, which
arises from the difference in scale between the movements that transport
infectious fleas between family groups and the vast size of contiguous landscapes
colonized by gerbils. Conventional theory predicts that abundance thresholds for 
the spread of infectious disease arise when transmission between hosts is density
dependent such that the basic reproduction number (R(0)) increases with
abundance, attaining 1 at the threshold. Percolation thresholds, however, are
separate, spatially explicit thresholds that indicate long-range connectivity in 
a system and do not coincide with R(0) = 1. Abundance thresholds are the
theoretical basis for attempts to manage infectious disease by reducing the
abundance of susceptibles, including vaccination and the culling of wildlife.
This first natural example of a percolation threshold in a disease system invites
a re-appraisal of other invasion thresholds, such as those for epidemic viral
infections in African lions (Panthera leo), and of other disease systems such as 
bovine tuberculosis (caused by Mycobacterium bovis) in badgers (Meles meles).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07053 
PMID: 18668107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):630-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07178.

Evolutionary origin and development of snake fangs.

Vonk FJ(1), Admiraal JF, Jackson K, Reshef R, de Bakker MA, Vanderschoot K, van
den Berge I, van Atten M, Burgerhout E, Beck A, Mirtschin PJ, Kochva E, Witte F, 
Fry BG, Woods AE, Richardson MK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biology, Leiden University, Kaiserstraat 63, PO Box 9516, 2300
RA, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Many advanced snakes use fangs-specialized teeth associated with a venom gland-to
introduce venom into prey or attacker. Various front- and rear-fanged groups are 
recognized, according to whether their fangs are positioned anterior (for example
cobras and vipers) or posterior (for example grass snakes) in the upper jaw. A
fundamental controversy in snake evolution is whether or not front and rear fangs
share the same evolutionary and developmental origin. Resolving this controversy 
could identify a major evolutionary transition underlying the massive radiation
of advanced snakes, and the associated developmental events. Here we examine this
issue by visualizing the tooth-forming epithelium in the upper jaw of 96 snake
embryos, covering eight species. We use the sonic hedgehog gene as a marker, and 
three-dimensionally reconstruct the development in 41 of the embryos. We show
that front fangs develop from the posterior end of the upper jaw, and are
strikingly similar in morphogenesis to rear fangs. This is consistent with their 
being homologous. In front-fanged snakes, the anterior part of the upper jaw
lacks sonic hedgehog expression, and ontogenetic allometry displaces the fang
from its posterior developmental origin to its adult front position-consistent
with an ancestral posterior position of the front fang. In rear-fanged snakes,
the fangs develop from an independent posterior dental lamina and retain their
posterior position. In light of our findings, we put forward a new model for the 
evolution of snake fangs: a posterior subregion of the tooth-forming epithelium
became developmentally uncoupled from the remaining dentition, which allowed the 
posterior teeth to evolve independently and in close association with the venom
gland, becoming highly modified in different lineages. This developmental event
could have facilitated the massive radiation of advanced snakes in the Cenozoic
era, resulting in the spectacular diversity of snakes seen today.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07178 
PMID: 18668106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):622-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07132.

Primary carbonatite melt from deeply subducted oceanic crust.

Walter MJ(1), Bulanova GP, Armstrong LS, Keshav S, Blundy JD, Gudfinnsson G, Lord
OT, Lennie AR, Clark SM, Smith CB, Gobbo L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Queen's Road, Bristol BS8
1RJ, UK. m.j.walter@bris.ac.uk

Partial melting in the Earth's mantle plays an important part in generating the
geochemical and isotopic diversity observed in volcanic rocks at the surface.
Identifying the composition of these primary melts in the mantle is crucial for
establishing links between mantle geochemical 'reservoirs' and fundamental
geodynamic processes. Mineral inclusions in natural diamonds have provided a
unique window into such deep mantle processes. Here we provide experimental and
geochemical evidence that silicate mineral inclusions in diamonds from Juina,
Brazil, crystallized from primary and evolved carbonatite melts in the mantle
transition zone and deep upper mantle. The incompatible trace element abundances 
calculated for a melt coexisting with a calcium-titanium-silicate perovskite
inclusion indicate deep melting of carbonated oceanic crust, probably at
transition-zone depths. Further to perovskite, calcic-majorite garnet inclusions 
record crystallization in the deep upper mantle from an evolved melt that closely
resembles estimates of primitive carbonatite on the basis of volcanic rocks.
Small-degree melts of subducted crust can be viewed as agents of chemical
mass-transfer in the upper mantle and transition zone, leaving a chemical imprint
of ocean crust that can possibly endure for billions of years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07132 
PMID: 18668105 


423. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):618-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07096.

Functionalizing hydrogen-bonded surface networks with self-assembled monolayers.

Madueno R(1), Räisänen MT, Silien C, Buck M.

Author information: 
(1)EaStCHEM School of Chemistry, University of St Andrews, North Haugh, St
Andrews KY16 9ST, UK. rafael.madueno@uco.es

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):585-6.

One of the central challenges in nanotechnology is the development of flexible
and efficient methods for creating ordered structures with nanometre precision
over an extended length scale. Supramolecular self-assembly on surfaces offers
attractive features in this regard: it is a 'bottom-up' approach and thus allows 
the simple and rapid creation of surface assemblies, which are readily tuned
through the choice of molecular building blocks used and stabilized by hydrogen
bonding, van der Waals interactions, pi-pi bonding or metal coordination between 
the blocks. Assemblies in the form of two-dimensional open networks are of
particular interest for possible applications because well-defined pores can be
used for the precise localization and confinement of guest entities such as
molecules or clusters, which can add functionality to the supramolecular network.
Another widely used method for producing surface structures involves
self-assembled monolayers (SAMs), which have introduced unprecedented flexibility
in our ability to tailor interfaces and generate patterned surfaces. But SAMs are
part of a top-down technology that is limited in terms of the spatial resolution 
that can be achieved. We therefore rationalized that a particularly powerful
fabrication platform might be realized by combining non-covalent self-assembly of
porous networks and SAMs, with the former providing nanometre-scale precision and
the latter allowing versatile functionalization. Here we show that the two
strategies can indeed be combined to create integrated network-SAM hybrid systems
that are sufficiently robust for further processing. We show that the
supramolecular network and the SAM can both be deposited from solution, which
should enable the widespread and flexible use of this combined fabrication
method.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07096 
PMID: 18668104 


424. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):614-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07130.

Calendars with Olympiad display and eclipse prediction on the Antikythera
Mechanism.

Freeth T(1), Jones A, Steele JM, Bitsakis Y.

Author information: 
(1)Antikythera Mechanism Research Project, 3 Tyrwhitt Crescent, Roath Park,
Cardiff CF23 5QP, UK. tony@images-first.com

Previous research on the Antikythera Mechanism established a highly complex
ancient Greek geared mechanism with front and back output dials. The upper back
dial is a 19-year calendar, based on the Metonic cycle, arranged as a five-turn
spiral. The lower back dial is a Saros eclipse-prediction dial, arranged as a
four-turn spiral of 223 lunar months, with glyphs indicating eclipse predictions.
Here we add surprising findings concerning these back dials. Though no month
names on the Metonic calendar were previously known, we have now identified all
12 months, which are unexpectedly of Corinthian origin. The Corinthian colonies
of northwestern Greece or Syracuse in Sicily are leading contenders-the latter
suggesting a heritage going back to Archimedes. Calendars with excluded days to
regulate month lengths, described in a first century bc source, have hitherto
been dismissed as implausible. We demonstrate their existence in the Antikythera 
calendar, and in the process establish why the Metonic dial has five turns. The
upper subsidiary dial is not a 76-year Callippic dial as previously thought, but 
follows the four-year cycle of the Olympiad and its associated Panhellenic Games.
Newly identified index letters in each glyph on the Saros dial show that a
previous reconstruction needs modification. We explore models for generating the 
unusual glyph distribution, and show how the eclipse times appear to be
contradictory. We explain the four turns of the Saros dial in terms of the full
moon cycle and the Exeligmos dial as indicating a necessary correction to the
predicted eclipse times. The new results on the Metonic calendar, Olympiad dial
and eclipse prediction link the cycles of human institutions with the celestial
cycles embedded in the Mechanism's gearwork.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07130 
PMID: 18668103 


425. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):611-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07157.

Scaling the Kondo lattice.

Yang YF(1), Fisk Z, Lee HO, Thompson JD, Pines D.

Author information: 
(1)Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA.
yifengyyf@gmail.com

The origin of magnetic order in metals has two extremes: an instability in a
liquid of local magnetic moments interacting through conduction electrons, and a 
spin-density wave instability in a Fermi liquid of itinerant electrons. This
dichotomy between 'local-moment' magnetism and 'itinerant-electron' magnetism is 
reminiscent of the valence bond/molecular orbital dichotomy present in studies of
chemical bonding. The class of heavy-electron intermetallic compounds of cerium, 
ytterbium and various 5f elements bridges the extremes, with itinerant-electron
magnetic characteristics at low temperatures that grow out of a high-temperature 
local-moment state. Describing this transition quantitatively has proved
difficult, and one of the main unsolved problems is finding what determines the
temperature scale for the evolution of this behaviour. Here we present a simple, 
semi-quantitative solution to this problem that provides a basic framework for
interpreting the physics of heavy-electron materials and offers the prospect of a
quantitative determination of the physical origin of their magnetic ordering and 
superconductivity. It also reveals the difference between the temperature scales 
that distinguish the conduction electrons' response to a single magnetic impurity
and their response to a lattice of local moments, and provides an updated version
of the well-known Doniach diagram.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07157 
PMID: 18668102 


426. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):607-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07100.

The identification of liquid ethane in Titan's Ontario Lacus.

Brown RH(1), Soderblom LA, Soderblom JM, Clark RN, Jaumann R, Barnes JW, Sotin C,
Buratti B, Baines KH, Nicholson PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Planetary Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona
85721, USA. rhb@lpl.arizona.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):587-9.

Titan was once thought to have global oceans of light hydrocarbons on its
surface, but after 40 close flybys of Titan by the Cassini spacecraft, it has
become clear that no such oceans exist. There are, however, features similar to
terrestrial lakes and seas, and widespread evidence for fluvial erosion,
presumably driven by precipitation of liquid methane from Titan's dense,
nitrogen-dominated atmosphere. Here we report infrared spectroscopic data,
obtained by the Visual and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer (VIMS) on board the
Cassini spacecraft, that strongly indicate that ethane, probably in liquid
solution with methane, nitrogen and other low-molecular-mass hydrocarbons, is
contained within Titan's Ontario Lacus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07100 
PMID: 18668101 


427. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):E3-4; discussion E4-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07165.

Does Rft1 flip an N-glycan lipid precursor?

Frank CG(1), Sanyal S, Rush JS, Waechter CJ, Menon AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 
10065, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2002 Jan 24;415(6870):447-50.

Protein N-glycosylation requires flipping of the glycolipid
Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-diphosphate dolichol (Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol) across the
endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Helenius et al. report genetic evidence suggesting
that Rft1, an essential ER membrane protein in yeast, is required directly to
translocate Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol. We now show that a specific ER protein(s),
but not Rft1, is required to flip Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol in reconstituted
vesicles. Rft1 may have a critical accessory role in translocating
Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol in vivo, but the Man(5)GlcNAc(2)-PP-Dol flippase itself
remains to be identified.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07165 
PMID: 18668045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):651-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07156. Epub 2008 Jul 16.

The behaviour of Drosophila adult hindgut stem cells is controlled by Wnt and Hh 
signalling.

Takashima S(1), Mkrtchyan M, Younossi-Hartenstein A, Merriam JR, Hartenstein V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):592-3.

The intestinal tract maintains proper function by replacing aged cells with
freshly produced cells that arise from a population of self-renewing intestinal
stem cells (ISCs). In the mammalian intestine, ISC self renewal, amplification
and differentiation take place along the crypt-villus axis, and are controlled by
the Wnt and hedgehog (Hh) signalling pathways. However, little is known about the
mechanisms that specify ISCs within the developing intestinal epithelium, or
about the signalling centres that help maintain them in their self-renewing stem 
cell state. Here we show that in adult Drosophila melanogaster, ISCs of the
posterior intestine (hindgut) are confined to an anterior narrow segment, which
we name the hindgut proliferation zone (HPZ). Within the HPZ, self renewal of
ISCs, as well as subsequent proliferation and differentiation of ISC descendants,
are controlled by locally emanating Wingless (Wg, a Drosophila Wnt homologue) and
Hh signals. The anteriorly restricted expression of Wg in the HPZ acts as a niche
signal that maintains cells in a slow-cycling, self-renewing mode. As cells
divide and move posteriorly away from the Wg source, they enter a phase of rapid 
proliferation. During this phase, Hh signal is required for exiting the cell
cycle and the onset of differentiation. The HPZ, with its characteristic
proliferation dynamics and signalling properties, is set up during the embryonic 
phase and becomes active in the larva, where it generates all adult hindgut cells
including ISCs. The mechanism and genetic control of cell renewal in the
Drosophila HPZ exhibits a large degree of similarity with what is seen in the
mammalian intestine. Our analysis of the Drosophila HPZ provides an insight into 
the specification and control of stem cells, highlighting the way in which the
spatial pattern of signals that promote self renewal, growth and differentiation 
is set up within a genetically tractable model system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07156 
PMID: 18633350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):600-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07166. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Switching on and off fear by distinct neuronal circuits.

Herry C(1), Ciocchi S, Senn V, Demmou L, Müller C, Lüthi A.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland. cyril.herry@fmi.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):589-90.

Switching between exploratory and defensive behaviour is fundamental to survival 
of many animals, but how this transition is achieved by specific neuronal
circuits is not known. Here, using the converse behavioural states of fear
extinction and its context-dependent renewal as a model in mice, we show that
bi-directional transitions between states of high and low fear are triggered by a
rapid switch in the balance of activity between two distinct populations of basal
amygdala neurons. These two populations are integrated into discrete neuronal
circuits differentially connected with the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal 
cortex. Targeted and reversible neuronal inactivation of the basal amygdala
prevents behavioural changes without affecting memory or expression of behaviour.
Our findings indicate that switching between distinct behavioural states can be
triggered by selective activation of specific neuronal circuits integrating
sensory and contextual information. These observations provide a new framework
for understanding context-dependent changes of fear behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07166 
PMID: 18615015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):642-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07167. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Amygdala intercalated neurons are required for expression of fear extinction.

Likhtik E(1), Popa D, Apergis-Schoute J, Fidacaro GA, Paré D.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey 07102, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):589-90.

Congruent findings from studies of fear learning in animals and humans indicate
that research on the circuits mediating fear constitutes our best hope of
understanding human anxiety disorders. In mammals, repeated presentations of a
conditioned stimulus that was previously paired to a noxious stimulus leads to
the gradual disappearance of conditioned fear responses. Although much evidence
suggests that this extinction process depends on plastic events in the amygdala, 
the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Intercalated (ITC) amygdala neurons
constitute probable mediators of extinction because they receive information
about the conditioned stimulus from the basolateral amygdala (BLA), and
contribute inhibitory projections to the central nucleus (CEA), the main output
station of the amygdala for conditioned fear responses. Thus, after extinction
training, ITC cells could reduce the impact of conditioned-stimulus-related BLA
inputs to the CEA by means of feed-forward inhibition. Here we test the
hypothesis that ITC neurons mediate extinction by lesioning them with a toxin
that selectively targets cells expressing micro-opioid receptors (microORs).
Electron microscopic observations revealed that the incidence of
microOR-immunoreactive synapses is much higher in ITC cell clusters than in the
BLA or CEA and that microORs typically have a post-synaptic location in ITC
cells. In keeping with this, bilateral infusions of the microOR agonist
dermorphin conjugated to the toxin saporin in the vicinity of ITC neurons caused 
a 34% reduction in the number of ITC cells but no significant cell loss in
surrounding nuclei. Moreover, ITC lesions caused a marked deficit in the
expression of extinction that correlated negatively with the number of surviving 
ITC neurons but not CEA cells. Because ITC cells exhibit an unusual pattern of
receptor expression, these findings open new avenues for the treatment of anxiety
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07167 
PMCID: PMC2528060
PMID: 18615014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):646-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07061. Epub 2008 Jun 29.

Pluripotent stem cells induced from adult neural stem cells by reprogramming with
two factors.

Kim JB(1), Zaehres H, Wu G, Gentile L, Ko K, Sebastiano V, Araúzo-Bravo MJ, Ruau 
D, Han DW, Zenke M, Schöler HR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Max Planck Institute for
Molecular Biomedicine, Röntgenstrasse 20, 48149 Münster, NRW, Germany.

Reprogramming of somatic cells is a valuable tool to understand the mechanisms of
regaining pluripotency and further opens up the possibility of generating
patient-specific pluripotent stem cells. Reprogramming of mouse and human somatic
cells into pluripotent stem cells, designated as induced pluripotent stem (iPS)
cells, has been possible with the expression of the transcription factor quartet 
Oct4 (also known as Pou5f1), Sox2, c-Myc and Klf4 (refs 1-11). Considering that
ectopic expression of c-Myc causes tumorigenicity in offspring and that
retroviruses themselves can cause insertional mutagenesis, the generation of iPS 
cells with a minimal number of factors may hasten the clinical application of
this approach. Here we show that adult mouse neural stem cells express higher
endogenous levels of Sox2 and c-Myc than embryonic stem cells, and that exogenous
Oct4 together with either Klf4 or c-Myc is sufficient to generate iPS cells from 
neural stem cells. These two-factor iPS cells are similar to embryonic stem cells
at the molecular level, contribute to development of the germ line, and form
chimaeras. We propose that, in inducing pluripotency, the number of reprogramming
factors can be reduced when using somatic cells that endogenously express
appropriate levels of complementing factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07061 
PMID: 18594515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):656-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07083. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

Blocking VEGFR-3 suppresses angiogenic sprouting and vascular network formation.

Tammela T(1), Zarkada G, Wallgard E, Murtomäki A, Suchting S, Wirzenius M,
Waltari M, Hellström M, Schomber T, Peltonen R, Freitas C, Duarte A, Isoniemi H, 
Laakkonen P, Christofori G, Ylä-Herttuala S, Shibuya M, Pytowski B, Eichmann A,
Betsholtz C, Alitalo K.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular/Cancer Biology Laboratory and Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, 
Biomedicum Helsinki and the Haartman Institute University of Helsinki, PO Box 63 
(Haartmaninkatu 8), 00014 Helsinki, Finland.

Angiogenesis, the growth of new blood vessels from pre-existing vasculature, is a
key process in several pathological conditions, including tumour growth and
age-related macular degeneration. Vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs)
stimulate angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis by activating VEGF receptor (VEGFR) 
tyrosine kinases in endothelial cells. VEGFR-3 (also known as FLT-4) is present
in all endothelia during development, and in the adult it becomes restricted to
the lymphatic endothelium. However, VEGFR-3 is upregulated in the
microvasculature of tumours and wounds. Here we demonstrate that VEGFR-3 is
highly expressed in angiogenic sprouts, and genetic targeting of VEGFR-3 or
blocking of VEGFR-3 signalling with monoclonal antibodies results in decreased
sprouting, vascular density, vessel branching and endothelial cell proliferation 
in mouse angiogenesis models. Stimulation of VEGFR-3 augmented VEGF-induced
angiogenesis and sustained angiogenesis even in the presence of VEGFR-2 (also
known as KDR or FLK-1) inhibitors, whereas antibodies against VEGFR-3 and VEGFR-2
in combination resulted in additive inhibition of angiogenesis and tumour growth.
Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological disruption of the Notch signalling
pathway led to widespread endothelial VEGFR-3 expression and excessive sprouting,
which was inhibited by blocking VEGFR-3 signals. Our results implicate VEGFR-3 as
a regulator of vascular network formation. Targeting VEGFR-3 may provide
additional efficacy for anti-angiogenic therapies, especially towards vessels
that are resistant to VEGF or VEGFR-2 inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07083 
PMID: 18594512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):638-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07085. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

An Fgf/Gremlin inhibitory feedback loop triggers termination of limb bud
outgrowth.

Verheyden JM(1), Sun X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
53706, USA.

During organ formation and regeneration a proper balance between promoting and
restricting growth is critical to achieve stereotypical size. Limb bud outgrowth 
is driven by signals in a positive feedback loop involving fibroblast growth
factor (Fgf) genes, sonic hedgehog (Shh) and Gremlin1 (Grem1). Precise
termination of these signals is essential to restrict limb bud size. The current 
model predicts a sequence of signal termination consistent with that in chick
limb buds. Our finding that the sequence in mouse limb buds is different led us
to explore alternative mechanisms. Here we show, by analysing compound mouse
mutants defective in genes comprising the positive loop, genetic evidence that
FGF signalling can repress Grem1 expression, revealing a novel Fgf/Grem1
inhibitory loop. This repression occurs both in mouse and chick limb buds, and is
dependent on high FGF activity. These data support a mechanism where the positive
Fgf/Shh loop drives outgrowth and an increase in FGF signalling, which triggers
the Fgf/Grem1 inhibitory loop. The inhibitory loop then operates to terminate
outgrowth signals in the order observed in either mouse or chick limb buds. Our
study unveils the concept of a self-promoting and self-terminating circuit that
may be used to attain proper tissue size in a broad spectrum of developmental and
regenerative settings.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07085 
PMCID: PMC2840222
PMID: 18594511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):595-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07088. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

A new class of homoserine lactone quorum-sensing signals.

Schaefer AL(1), Greenberg EP, Oliver CM, Oda Y, Huang JJ, Bittan-Banin G, Peres
CM, Schmidt S, Juhaszova K, Sufrin JR, Harwood CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Washington 98195, USA.

Quorum sensing is a term used to describe cell-to-cell communication that allows 
cell-density-dependent gene expression. Many bacteria use acyl-homoserine lactone
(acyl-HSL) synthases to generate fatty acyl-HSL quorum-sensing signals, which
function with signal receptors to control expression of specific genes. The fatty
acyl group is derived from fatty acid biosynthesis and provides signal
specificity, but the variety of signals is limited. Here we show that the
photosynthetic bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris uses an acyl-HSL synthase to 
produce p-coumaroyl-HSL by using environmental p-coumaric acid rather than fatty 
acids from cellular pools. The bacterium has a signal receptor with homology to
fatty acyl-HSL receptors that responds to p-coumaroyl-HSL to regulate global gene
expression. We also found that p-coumaroyl-HSL is made by other bacteria
including Bradyrhizobium sp. and Silicibacter pomeroyi. This discovery extends
the range of possibilities for acyl-HSL quorum sensing and raises fundamental
questions about quorum sensing within the context of environmental signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07088 
PMID: 18563084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 2008 Jul 31;454(7204):626-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07032. Epub 2008 Jun 15.

Environmental determinants of extinction selectivity in the fossil record.

Peters SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology & Geophysics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53706, USA. peters@geology.wisc.edu

The causes of mass extinctions and the nature of biological selectivity during
extinction events remain central questions in palaeobiology. Although many
different environmental perturbations have been invoked as extinction mechanisms,
it has long been recognized that fluctuations in sea level coincide with many
episodes of biotic turnover. Recent work supports the hypothesis that changes in 
the areas of epicontinental seas have influenced the macroevolution of marine
animals, but the extent to which differential environmental turnover has
contributed to extinction selectivity remains unknown. Here I use a new
compilation of the temporal durations of sedimentary rock packages to show that
carbonate and terrigenous clastic marine shelf environments have different
spatio-temporal dynamics and that these dynamics predict patterns of genus-level 
extinction, extinction selectivity and diversity among Sepkoski's Palaeozoic and 
modern evolutionary faunae. These results do not preclude a role for biological
interactions or unusual physical events as drivers of macroevolution, but they do
suggest that the turnover of marine shelf habitats and correlated environmental
changes have been consistent determinants of extinction, extinction selectivity
and the shifting composition of the marine biota during the Phanerozoic eon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07032 
PMID: 18552839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):543-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07054.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae ATM orthologue suppresses break-induced chromosome
translocations.

Lee K(1), Zhang Y, Lee SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Institute of Biotechnology, University of
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas 78245, USA.

Chromosome translocations are frequently associated with many types of
blood-related cancers and childhood sarcomas. Detection of chromosome
translocations assists in diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of these diseases;
however, despite their importance to such diseases, the molecular mechanisms
leading to chromosome translocations are not well understood. The available
evidence indicates a role for non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) of DNA
double-strand breaks (DSBs) in their origin. Here we develop a yeast-based system
that induces a reciprocal chromosome translocation by formation and ligation of
breaks on two different chromosomes. We show that interchromosomal end joining is
efficiently suppressed by the Tel1- and Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2-dependent pathway; this 
is distinct from the role of Tel1 in telomeric integrity and from Mec1- and
Tel1-dependent checkpoint controls. Suppression of DSB-induced chromosome
translocations depends on the kinase activity of Tel1 and Dun1, and the
damage-induced phosphorylation of Sae2 and histone H2AX proteins. Tel1- and
Sae2-dependent tethering and promotion of 5' to 3' degradation of broken
chromosome ends discourage error-prone NHEJ and interchromosomal NHEJ, preserving
chromosome integrity on DNA damage. Our results indicate that, like human ATM,
Tel1 serves as a key regulator for chromosome integrity in the pathway that
reduces the risk for DSB-induced chromosome translocations, and are probably
pertinent to the oncogenic chromosome translocations in ATM-deficient cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07054 
PMID: 18650924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):515-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06970.

Ecosystem energetic implications of parasite and free-living biomass in three
estuaries.

Kuris AM(1), Hechinger RF, Shaw JC, Whitney KL, Aguirre-Macedo L, Boch CA, Dobson
AP, Dunham EJ, Fredensborg BL, Huspeni TC, Lorda J, Mababa L, Mancini FT, Mora
AB, Pickering M, Talhouk NL, Torchin ME, Lafferty KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Marine Biology and Marine Science
Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.
kuris@lifesci.ucsb.edu

Parasites can have strong impacts but are thought to contribute little biomass to
ecosystems. We quantified the biomass of free-living and parasitic species in
three estuaries on the Pacific coast of California and Baja California. Here we
show that parasites have substantial biomass in these ecosystems. We found that
parasite biomass exceeded that of top predators. The biomass of trematodes was
particularly high, being comparable to that of the abundant birds, fishes,
burrowing shrimps and polychaetes. Trophically transmitted parasites and
parasitic castrators subsumed more biomass than did other parasitic functional
groups. The extended phenotype biomass controlled by parasitic castrators
sometimes exceeded that of their uninfected hosts. The annual production of
free-swimming trematode transmission stages was greater than the combined biomass
of all quantified parasites and was also greater than bird biomass. This biomass 
and productivity of parasites implies a profound role for infectious processes in
these estuaries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06970 
PMID: 18650923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):505-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07093.

Near-surface wetland sediments as a source of arsenic release to ground water in 
Asia.

Polizzotto ML(1), Kocar BD, Benner SG, Sampson M, Fendorf S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):415-6.

Tens of millions of people in south and southeast Asia routinely consume ground
water that has unsafe arsenic levels. Arsenic is naturally derived from eroded
Himalayan sediments, and is believed to enter solution following reductive
release from solid phases under anaerobic conditions. However, the processes
governing aqueous concentrations and locations of arsenic release to pore water
remain unresolved, limiting our ability to predict arsenic concentrations
spatially (between wells) and temporally (future concentrations) and to assess
the impact of human activities on the arsenic problem. This uncertainty is partly
attributed to a poor understanding of groundwater flow paths altered by extensive
irrigation pumping in the Ganges-Brahmaputra delta, where most research has
focused. Here, using hydrologic and (bio)geochemical measurements, we show that
on the minimally disturbed Mekong delta of Cambodia, arsenic is released from
near-surface, river-derived sediments and transported, on a centennial timescale,
through the underlying aquifer back to the river. Owing to similarities in
geologic deposition, aquifer source rock and regional hydrologic gradients, our
results represent a model for understanding pre-disturbance conditions for other 
major deltas in Asia. Furthermore, the observation of strong hydrologic influence
on arsenic behaviour indicates that release and transport of arsenic are
sensitive to continuing and impending anthropogenic disturbances. In particular, 
groundwater pumping for irrigation, changes in agricultural practices, sediment
excavation, levee construction and upstream dam installations will alter the
hydraulic regime and/or arsenic source material and, by extension, influence
groundwater arsenic concentrations and the future of this health problem.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07093 
PMID: 18650922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):501-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07074.

Archimedean-like tiling on decagonal quasicrystalline surfaces.

Mikhael J(1), Roth J, Helden L, Bechinger C.

Author information: 
(1)Physikalisches Institut, Universität Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):420-1.

Monolayers on crystalline surfaces often form complex structures with physical
and chemical properties that differ strongly from those of their bulk phases.
Such hetero-epitactic overlayers are currently used in nanotechnology and
understanding their growth mechanism is important for the development of new
materials and devices. In comparison with crystals, quasicrystalline surfaces
exhibit much larger structural and chemical complexity leading, for example, to
unusual frictional, catalytical or optical properties. Deposition of thin films
on such substrates can lead to structures that may have typical quasicrystalline 
properties. Recent experiments have indeed showed 5-fold symmetries in the
diffraction pattern of metallic layers adsorbed on quasicrystals. Here we report 
a real-space investigation of the phase behaviour of a colloidal monolayer
interacting with a quasicrystalline decagonal substrate created by interfering
five laser beams. We find a pseudomorphic phase that shows both crystalline and
quasicrystalline structural properties. It can be described by an
archimedean-like tiling consisting of alternating rows of square and triangular
tiles. The calculated diffraction pattern of this phase is in agreement with
recent observations of copper adsorbed on icosahedral Al(70)Pd(21)Mn(9) surfaces.
In addition to establishing a link between archimedean tilings and quasicrystals,
our experiments allow us to investigate in real space how single-element
monolayers can form commensurate structures on quasicrystalline surfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07074 
PMID: 18650921 


440. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):495-500. doi: 10.1038/nature07110.

Medium-scale carbon nanotube thin-film integrated circuits on flexible plastic
substrates.

Cao Q(1), Kim HS, Pimparkar N, Kulkarni JP, Wang C, Shim M, Roy K, Alam MA,
Rogers JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA.

The ability to form integrated circuits on flexible sheets of plastic enables
attributes (for example conformal and flexible formats and lightweight and shock 
resistant construction) in electronic devices that are difficult or impossible to
achieve with technologies that use semiconductor wafers or glass plates as
substrates. Organic small-molecule and polymer-based materials represent the most
widely explored types of semiconductors for such flexible circuitry. Although
these materials and those that use films or nanostructures of inorganics have
promise for certain applications, existing demonstrations of them in circuits on 
plastic indicate modest performance characteristics that might restrict the
application possibilities. Here we report implementations of a comparatively
high-performance carbon-based semiconductor consisting of sub-monolayer, random
networks of single-walled carbon nanotubes to yield small- to medium-scale
integrated digital circuits, composed of up to nearly 100 transistors on plastic 
substrates. Transistors in these integrated circuits have excellent properties:
mobilities as high as 80 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1), subthreshold slopes as low as 140 m V
dec(-1), operating voltages less than 5 V together with deterministic control
over the threshold voltages, on/off ratios as high as 10(5), switching speeds in 
the kilohertz range even for coarse (approximately 100-microm) device geometries,
and good mechanical flexibility-all with levels of uniformity and reproducibility
that enable high-yield fabrication of integrated circuits. Theoretical
calculations, in contexts ranging from heterogeneous percolative transport
through the networks to compact models for the transistors to circuit level
simulations, provide quantitative and predictive understanding of these systems. 
Taken together, these results suggest that sub-monolayer films of single-walled
carbon nanotubes are attractive materials for flexible integrated circuits, with 
many potential areas of application in consumer and other areas of electronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07110 
PMID: 18650920 


441. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):492-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07114.

The characteristic blue spectra of accretion disks in quasars as uncovered in the
infrared.

Kishimoto M(1), Antonucci R, Blaes O, Lawrence A, Boisson C, Albrecht M, Leipski 
C.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie, Auf dem Hügel 69, 53121 Bonn,
Germany. mk@mpifr-bonn.mpg.de

Quasars are thought to be powered by supermassive black holes accreting
surrounding gas. Central to this picture is a putative accretion disk which is
believed to be the source of the majority of the radiative output. It is well
known, however, that the most extensively studied disk model-an optically thick
disk which is heated locally by the dissipation of gravitational binding
energy-is apparently contradicted by observations in a few major respects. In
particular, the model predicts a specific blue spectral shape asymptotically from
the visible to the near-infrared, but this is not generally seen in the visible
wavelength region where the disk spectrum is observable. A crucial difficulty has
been that, towards the infrared, the disk spectrum starts to be hidden under
strong, hot dust emission from much larger but hitherto unresolved scales, and
thus has essentially been impossible to observe. Here we report observations of
polarized light interior to the dust-emitting region that enable us to uncover
this near-infrared disk spectrum in several quasars. The revealed spectra show
that the near-infrared disk spectrum is indeed as blue as predicted. This
indicates that, at least for the outer near-infrared-emitting radii, the standard
picture of the locally heated disk is approximately correct.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07114 
PMID: 18650919 


442. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):470-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07202.

Integration of metabolism and inflammation by lipid-activated nuclear receptors.

Bensinger SJ(1), Tontonoz P.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles,
675 Charles E. Young Drive, Los Angeles, California 90049, USA.

The nuclear receptors known as PPARs and LXRs are lipid-activated transcription
factors that have emerged as key regulators of lipid metabolism and inflammation.
PPARs and LXRs are activated by non-esterified fatty acids and cholesterol
metabolites, respectively, and both exert positive and negative control over the 
expression of a range of metabolic and inflammatory genes. The ability of these
nuclear receptors to integrate metabolic and inflammatory signalling makes them
attractive targets for intervention in human metabolic diseases, such as
atherosclerosis and type 2 diabetes, as well as for the modulation of
inflammation and immune responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07202 
PMID: 18650918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):463-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07206.

The role of exercise and PGC1alpha in inflammation and chronic disease.

Handschin C(1), Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology and Zurich Center for Integrative Human Physiology
(ZIHP), University of Zurich, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
christoph.handschin@access.uzh.ch

Inadequate physical activity is linked to many chronic diseases. But the
mechanisms that tie muscle activity to health are unclear. The transcriptional
coactivator PGC1alpha has recently been shown to regulate several
exercise-associated aspects of muscle function. We propose that this protein
controls muscle plasticity, suppresses a broad inflammatory response and mediates
the beneficial effects of exercise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07206 
PMCID: PMC2587487
PMID: 18650917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):455-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07203.

From endoplasmic-reticulum stress to the inflammatory response.

Zhang K(1), Kaufman RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, The University of Michigan Medical Center,
1150 West Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

The endoplasmic reticulum is responsible for much of a cell's protein synthesis
and folding, but it also has an important role in sensing cellular stress.
Recently, it has been shown that the endoplasmic reticulum mediates a specific
set of intracellular signalling pathways in response to the accumulation of
unfolded or misfolded proteins, and these pathways are collectively known as the 
unfolded-protein response. New observations suggest that the unfolded-protein
response can initiate inflammation, and the coupling of these responses in
specialized cells and tissues is now thought to be fundamental in the
pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. The knowledge gained from this emerging
field will aid in the development of therapies for modulating cellular stress and
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07203 
PMCID: PMC2727659
PMID: 18650916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):445-54. doi: 10.1038/nature07204.

The development of allergic inflammation.

Galli SJ(1), Tsai M, Piliponsky AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 300 Pasteur
Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA. sgalli@stanford.edu

Allergic disorders, such as anaphylaxis, hay fever, eczema and asthma, now
afflict roughly 25% of people in the developed world. In allergic subjects,
persistent or repetitive exposure to allergens, which typically are intrinsically
innocuous substances common in the environment, results in chronic allergic
inflammation. This in turn produces long-term changes in the structure of the
affected organs and substantial abnormalities in their function. It is therefore 
important to understand the characteristics and consequences of acute and chronic
allergic inflammation, and in particular to explore how mast cells can contribute
to several features of this maladaptive pattern of immunological reactivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07204 
PMCID: PMC3573758
PMID: 18650915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):436-44. doi: 10.1038/nature07205.

Cancer-related inflammation.

Mantovani A(1), Allavena P, Sica A, Balkwill F.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Clinico Humanitas IRCCS, Via Manzoni 56, Rozzano, 20089 Milan, Italy.
alberto.mantovani@humanitas.it

The mediators and cellular effectors of inflammation are important constituents
of the local environment of tumours. In some types of cancer, inflammatory
conditions are present before a malignant change occurs. Conversely, in other
types of cancer, an oncogenic change induces an inflammatory microenvironment
that promotes the development of tumours. Regardless of its origin, 'smouldering'
inflammation in the tumour microenvironment has many tumour-promoting effects. It
aids in the proliferation and survival of malignant cells, promotes angiogenesis 
and metastasis, subverts adaptive immune responses, and alters responses to
hormones and chemotherapeutic agents. The molecular pathways of this
cancer-related inflammation are now being unravelled, resulting in the
identification of new target molecules that could lead to improved diagnosis and 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07205 
PMID: 18650914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):428-35. doi: 10.1038/nature07201.

Origin and physiological roles of inflammation.

Medzhitov R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Immunobiology, Yale
University School of Medicine, TAC S-669, 300 Cedar Street, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA. ruslan.medzhitov@yale.edu

Inflammation underlies a wide variety of physiological and pathological
processes. Although the pathological aspects of many types of inflammation are
well appreciated, their physiological functions are mostly unknown. The classic
instigators of inflammation - infection and tissue injury - are at one end of a
large range of adverse conditions that induce inflammation, and they trigger the 
recruitment of leukocytes and plasma proteins to the affected tissue site. Tissue
stress or malfunction similarly induces an adaptive response, which is referred
to here as para-inflammation. This response relies mainly on tissue-resident
macrophages and is intermediate between the basal homeostatic state and a classic
inflammatory response. Para-inflammation is probably responsible for the chronic 
inflammatory conditions that are associated with modern human diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07201 
PMID: 18650913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):479-85. doi: 10.1038/nature07135. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

High-resolution mapping of meiotic crossovers and non-crossovers in yeast.

Mancera E(1), Bourgon R, Brozzi A, Huber W, Steinmetz LM.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):421-2.

Meiotic recombination has a central role in the evolution of sexually reproducing
organisms. The two recombination outcomes, crossover and non-crossover, increase 
genetic diversity, but have the potential to homogenize alleles by gene
conversion. Whereas crossover rates vary considerably across the genome,
non-crossovers and gene conversions have only been identified in a handful of
loci. To examine recombination genome wide and at high spatial resolution, we
generated maps of crossovers, crossover-associated gene conversion and
non-crossover gene conversion using dense genetic marker data collected from all 
four products of fifty-six yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) meioses. Our maps
reveal differences in the distributions of crossovers and non-crossovers, showing
more regions where either crossovers or non-crossovers are favoured than expected
by chance. Furthermore, we detect evidence for interference between crossovers
and non-crossovers, a phenomenon previously only known to occur between
crossovers. Up to 1% of the genome of each meiotic product is subject to gene
conversion in a single meiosis, with detectable bias towards GC nucleotides. To
our knowledge the maps represent the first high-resolution, genome-wide
characterization of the multiple outcomes of recombination in any organism. In
addition, because non-crossover hotspots create holes of reduced linkage within
haplotype blocks, our results stress the need to incorporate non-crossovers into 
genetic linkage analysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07135 
PMCID: PMC2780006
PMID: 18615017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):509-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07177. Epub 2008 Jul 6.

Stress changes from the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake and increased hazard in the
Sichuan basin.

Parsons T(1), Ji C, Kirby E.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, MS-999, 345 Middlefield Road, Menlo Park, California
94025, USA. tparsons@usgs.gov

On 12 May 2008, the devastating magnitude 7.9 (Wenchuan) earthquake struck the
eastern edge of the Tibetan plateau, collapsing buildings and killing thousands
in major cities aligned along the western Sichuan basin in China. After such a
large-magnitude earthquake, rearrangement of stresses in the crust commonly leads
to subsequent damaging earthquakes. The mainshock of the 12 May earthquake
ruptured with as much as 9 m of slip along the boundary between the Longmen Shan 
and Sichuan basin, and demonstrated the complex strike-slip and thrust motion
that characterizes the region. The Sichuan basin and surroundings are also
crossed by other active strike-slip and thrust faults. Here we present
calculations of the coseismic stress changes that resulted from the 12 May event 
using models of those faults, and show that many indicate significant stress
increases. Rapid mapping of such stress changes can help to locate fault sections
with relatively higher odds of producing large aftershocks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07177 
PMID: 18600260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):538-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07065. Epub 2008 Jul 2.

Oligomerization of STIM1 couples ER calcium depletion to CRAC channel activation.

Luik RM(1), Wang B, Prakriya M, Wu MM, Lewis RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Ca(2+)-release-activated Ca(2+) (CRAC) channels generate sustained Ca(2+) signals
that are essential for a range of cell functions, including antigen-stimulated T 
lymphocyte activation and proliferation. Recent studies have revealed that the
depletion of Ca(2+) from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) triggers the
oligomerization of stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1), the ER Ca(2+) sensor, 
and its redistribution to ER-plasma membrane (ER-PM) junctions where the CRAC
channel subunit ORAI1 accumulates in the plasma membrane and CRAC channels open. 
However, how the loss of ER Ca(2+) sets into motion these coordinated molecular
rearrangements remains unclear. Here we define the relationships among
[Ca(2+)](ER), STIM1 redistribution and CRAC channel activation and identify STIM1
oligomerization as the critical [Ca(2+)](ER)-dependent event that drives
store-operated Ca(2+) entry. In human Jurkat leukaemic T cells expressing an
ER-targeted Ca(2+) indicator, CRAC channel activation and STIM1 redistribution
follow the same function of [Ca(2+)](ER), reaching half-maximum at approximately 
200 microM with a Hill coefficient of approximately 4. Because STIM1 binds only a
single Ca(2+) ion, the high apparent cooperativity suggests that STIM1 must first
oligomerize to enable its accumulation at ER-PM junctions. To assess directly the
causal role of STIM1 oligomerization in store-operated Ca(2+) entry, we replaced 
the luminal Ca(2+)-sensing domain of STIM1 with the 12-kDa FK506- and
rapamycin-binding protein (FKBP12, also known as FKBP1A) or the FKBP-rapamycin
binding (FRB) domain of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR, also known as
FRAP1). A rapamycin analogue oligomerizes the fusion proteins and causes them to 
accumulate at ER-PM junctions and activate CRAC channels without depleting Ca(2+)
from the ER. Thus, STIM1 oligomerization is the critical transduction event
through which Ca(2+) store depletion controls store-operated Ca(2+) entry, acting
as a switch that triggers the self-organization and activation of STIM1-ORAI1
clusters at ER-PM junctions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07065 
PMCID: PMC2712442
PMID: 18596693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):519-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07052. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

Evidence for the evolutionary nascence of a novel sex determination pathway in
honeybees.

Hasselmann M(1), Gempe T, Schiøtt M, Nunes-Silva CG, Otte M, Beye M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf,
Universitaetsstrasse 1, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany.

Sex determination in honeybees (Apis mellifera) is governed by heterozygosity at 
a single locus harbouring the complementary sex determiner (csd) gene, in
contrast to the well-studied sex chromosome system of Drosophila melanogaster.
Bees heterozygous at csd are females, whereas homozygotes and hemizygotes
(haploid individuals) are males. Although at least 15 different csd alleles are
known among natural bee populations, the mechanisms linking allelic interactions 
to switching of the sexual development programme are still obscure. Here we
report a new component of the sex-determining pathway in honeybees, encoded 12
kilobases upstream of csd. The gene feminizer (fem) is the ancestrally conserved 
progenitor gene from which csd arose and encodes an SR-type protein, harbouring
an Arg/Ser-rich domain. Fem shares the same arrangement of Arg/Ser- and
proline-rich-domain with the Drosophila principal sex-determining gene
transformer (tra), but lacks conserved motifs except for a 30-amino-acid motif
that Fem shares only with Tra of another fly, Ceratitis capitata. Like tra, the
fem transcript is alternatively spliced. The male-specific splice variant
contains a premature stop codon and yields no functional product, whereas the
female-specific splice variant encodes the functional protein. We show that RNA
interference (RNAi)-induced knockdowns of the female-specific fem splice variant 
result in male bees, indicating that the fem product is required for entire
female development. Furthermore, RNAi-induced knockdowns of female allelic csd
transcripts result in the male-specific fem splice variant, suggesting that the
fem gene implements the switch of developmental pathways controlled by
heterozygosity at csd. Comparative analysis of fem and csd coding sequences from 
five bee species indicates a recent origin of csd in the honeybee lineage from
the fem progenitor and provides evidence for positive selection at csd
accompanied by purifying selection at fem. The fem locus in bees uncovers gene
duplication and positive selection as evolutionary mechanisms underlying the
origin of a novel sex determination pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07052 
PMID: 18594516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):533-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07062. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

Switch of rhodopsin expression in terminally differentiated Drosophila sensory
neurons.

Sprecher SG(1), Desplan C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Developmental Genetics, Department of Biology, New York University,
1090 Silver Center, 100 Washington Square East, New York, New York 10003-6688,
USA.

Specificity of sensory neurons requires restricted expression of one sensory
receptor gene and the exclusion of all others within a given cell. In the
Drosophila retina, functional identity of photoreceptors depends on
light-sensitive Rhodopsins (Rhs). The much simpler larval eye (Bolwig organ) is
composed of about 12 photoreceptors, eight of which are green-sensitive (Rh6) and
four blue-sensitive (Rh5). The larval eye becomes the adult extraretinal 'eyelet'
composed of four green-sensitive (Rh6) photoreceptors. Here we show that, during 
metamorphosis, all Rh6 photoreceptors die, whereas the Rh5 photoreceptors switch 
fate by turning off Rh5 and then turning on Rh6 expression. This switch occurs
without apparent changes in the programme of transcription factors that specify
larval photoreceptor subtypes. We also show that the transcription factor
Senseless (Sens) mediates the very different cellular behaviours of Rh5 and Rh6
photoreceptors. Sens is restricted to Rh5 photoreceptors and must be excluded
from Rh6 photoreceptors to allow them to die at metamorphosis. Finally, we show
that Ecdysone receptor (EcR) functions autonomously both for the death of larval 
Rh6 photoreceptors and for the sensory switch of Rh5 photoreceptors to express
Rh6. This fate switch of functioning, terminally differentiated neurons provides 
a novel, unexpected example of hard-wired sensory plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07062 
PMCID: PMC2750042
PMID: 18594514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):486-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07101. Epub 2008 Jun 25.

Structure of a beta1-adrenergic G-protein-coupled receptor.

Warne T(1), Serrano-Vega MJ, Baker JG, Moukhametzianov R, Edwards PC, Henderson
R, Leslie AG, Tate CG, Schertler GF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

G-protein-coupled receptors have a major role in transmembrane signalling in most
eukaryotes and many are important drug targets. Here we report the 2.7 A
resolution crystal structure of a beta(1)-adrenergic receptor in complex with the
high-affinity antagonist cyanopindolol. The modified turkey (Meleagris gallopavo)
receptor was selected to be in its antagonist conformation and its
thermostability improved by earlier limited mutagenesis. The ligand-binding
pocket comprises 15 side chains from amino acid residues in 4 transmembrane
alpha-helices and extracellular loop 2. This loop defines the entrance of the
ligand-binding pocket and is stabilized by two disulphide bonds and a sodium ion.
Binding of cyanopindolol to the beta(1)-adrenergic receptor and binding of
carazolol to the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor involve similar interactions. A
short well-defined helix in cytoplasmic loop 2, not observed in either rhodopsin 
or the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor, directly interacts by means of a tyrosine
with the highly conserved DRY motif at the end of helix 3 that is essential for
receptor activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07101 
PMCID: PMC2923055
PMID: 18594507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):528-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07034. Epub 2008 Jun 15.

Imbalance between pSmad3 and Notch induces CDK inhibitors in old muscle stem
cells.

Carlson ME(1), Hsu M, Conboy IM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

Adult skeletal muscle robustly regenerates throughout an organism's life, but as 
the muscle ages, its ability to repair diminishes and eventually fails. Previous 
work suggests that the regenerative potential of muscle stem cells (satellite
cells) is not triggered in the old muscle because of a decline in Notch
activation, and that it can be rejuvenated by forced local activation of Notch.
Here we report that, in addition to the loss of Notch activation, old muscle
produces excessive transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta (but not myostatin),
which induces unusually high levels of TGF-beta pSmad3 in resident satellite
cells and interferes with their regenerative capacity. Importantly, endogenous
Notch and pSmad3 antagonize each other in the control of satellite-cell
proliferation, such that activation of Notch blocks the TGF-beta-dependent
upregulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors p15, p16, p21 and
p27, whereas inhibition of Notch induces them. Furthermore, in muscle stem cells,
Notch activity determines the binding of pSmad3 to the promoters of these
negative regulators of cell-cycle progression. Attenuation of TGF-beta/pSmad3 in 
old, injured muscle restores regeneration to satellite cells in vivo. Thus a
balance between endogenous pSmad3 and active Notch controls the regenerative
competence of muscle stem cells, and deregulation of this balance in the old
muscle microniche interferes with regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07034 
PMID: 18552838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):511-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07031. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

Subtropical to boreal convergence of tree-leaf temperatures.

Helliker BR(1), Richter SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104, USA. helliker@sas.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):422-3.

The oxygen isotope ratio (delta(18)O) of cellulose is thought to provide a record
of ambient temperature and relative humidity during periods of carbon
assimilation. Here we introduce a method to resolve tree-canopy leaf temperature 
with the use of delta(18)O of cellulose in 39 tree species. We show a remarkably 
constant leaf temperature of 21.4 +/- 2.2 degrees C across 50 degrees of
latitude, from subtropical to boreal biomes. This means that when carbon
assimilation is maximal, the physiological and morphological properties of tree
branches serve to raise leaf temperature above air temperature to a much greater 
extent in more northern latitudes. A main assumption underlying the use of
delta(18)O to reconstruct climate history is that the temperature and relative
humidity of an actively photosynthesizing leaf are the same as those of the
surrounding air. Our data are contrary to that assumption and show that plant
physiological ecology must be considered when reconstructing climate through
isotope analysis. Furthermore, our results may explain why climate has only a
modest effect on leaf economic traits in general.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07031 
PMID: 18548005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nature. 2008 Jul 24;454(7203):523-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07106. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

Innate immunity induced by composition-dependent RIG-I recognition of hepatitis C
virus RNA.

Saito T(1), Owen DM, Jiang F, Marcotrigiano J, Gale M Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195-7650, USA.

Innate immune defences are essential for the control of virus infection and are
triggered through host recognition of viral macromolecular motifs known as
pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an RNA
virus that replicates in the liver, and infects 200 million people worldwide.
Infection is regulated by hepatic immune defences triggered by the cellular RIG-I
helicase. RIG-I binds PAMP RNA and signals interferon regulatory factor 3
activation to induce the expression of interferon-alpha/beta and
antiviral/interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) that limit infection. Here we
identify the polyuridine motif of the HCV genome 3' non-translated region and its
replication intermediate as the PAMP substrate of RIG-I, and show that this and
similar homopolyuridine or homopolyriboadenine motifs present in the genomes of
RNA viruses are the chief feature of RIG-I recognition and immune triggering in
human and murine cells. 5' terminal triphosphate on the PAMP RNA was necessary
but not sufficient for RIG-I binding, which was primarily dependent on
homopolymeric ribonucleotide composition, linear structure and length. The HCV
PAMP RNA stimulated RIG-I-dependent signalling to induce a hepatic innate immune 
response in vivo, and triggered interferon and ISG expression to suppress HCV
infection in vitro. These results provide a conceptual advance by defining
specific homopolymeric RNA motifs within the genome of HCV and other RNA viruses 
as the PAMP substrate of RIG-I, and demonstrate immunogenic features of the
PAMP-RIG-I interaction that could be used as an immune adjuvant for vaccine and
immunotherapy approaches.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07106 
PMCID: PMC2856441
PMID: 18548002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):331-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06935.

Coherent ecological dynamics induced by large-scale disturbance.

Keitt TH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Integrative Biology, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
tkeitt@mail.utexas.edu

Aggregate community-level response to disturbance is a principle concern in
ecology because post-disturbance dynamics are integral to the ability of
ecosystems to maintain function in an uncertain world. Community-level responses 
to disturbance can be arrayed along a spectrum ranging from synchronous
oscillations where all species rise and fall together, to compensatory dynamics
where total biomass remains relatively constant despite fluctuations in the
densities of individual species. An important recent insight is that patterns of 
synchrony and compensation can vary with the timescale of analysis and that
spectral time series methods can enable detection of coherent dynamics that would
otherwise be obscured by opposing patterns occurring at different scales. Here I 
show that application of wavelet analysis to experimentally manipulated plankton 
communities reveals strong synchrony after disturbance. The result is paradoxical
because it is well established that these communities contain both
disturbance-sensitive and disturbance-tolerant species leading to compensation
within functional groups. Theory predicts that compensatory substitution of
functionally equivalent species should stabilize ecological communities, yet I
found at the whole-community level a large increase in seasonal biomass
variation. Resolution of the paradox hinges on patterns of seasonality among
species. The compensatory shift in community composition after disturbance
resulted in a loss of cold-season dominants, which before disturbance had served 
to stabilize biomass throughout the year. Species dominating the disturbed
community peaked coherently during the warm season, explaining the observed
synchrony and increase in seasonal biomass variation. These results suggest that 
theory relating compensatory dynamics to ecological stability needs to consider
not only complementarity in species responses to environmental change, but also
seasonal complementarity among disturbance-tolerant and disturbance-sensitive
species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06935 
PMID: 18633416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):323-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07076.

Cretaceous oceanic anoxic event 2 triggered by a massive magmatic episode.

Turgeon SC(1), Creaser RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, T2G 2E3, Canada. turgeonsc@ualberta.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):285-7.

Oceanic anoxic events (OAEs) were episodes of widespread marine anoxia during
which large amounts of organic carbon were buried on the ocean floor under
oxygen-deficient bottom waters. OAE2, occurring at the Cenomanian/Turonian
boundary (about 93.5 Myr ago), is the most widespread and best defined OAE of the
mid-Cretaceous. Although the enhanced burial of organic matter can be explained
either through increased primary productivity or enhanced preservation scenarios,
the actual trigger mechanism, corresponding closely to the onset of these
episodes of increased carbon sequestration, has not been clearly identified. It
has been postulated that large-scale magmatic activity initially triggered OAE2
(refs 4, 5), but a direct proxy of magmatism preserved in the sedimentary record 
coinciding closely with the onset of OAE2 has not yet been found. Here we report 
seawater osmium isotope ratios in organic-rich sediments from two distant sites. 
We find that at both study sites the marine osmium isotope record changes
abruptly just at or before the onset of OAE2. Using a simple two-component mixing
equation, we calculate that over 97 per cent of the total osmium content in
contemporaneous seawater at both sites is magmatic in origin, a approximately
30-50-fold increase relative to pre-OAE conditions. Furthermore, the magmatic
osmium isotope signal appears slightly before the OAE2-as indicated by carbon
isotope ratios-suggesting a time-lag of up to approximately 23 kyr between
magmatism and the onset of significant organic carbon burial, which may reflect
the reaction time of the global ocean system. Our marine osmium isotope data are 
indicative of a widespread magmatic pulse at the onset of OAE2, which may have
triggered the subsequent deposition of large amounts of organic matter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07076 
PMID: 18633415 


459. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):319-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07094.

Imaging and dynamics of light atoms and molecules on graphene.

Meyer JC(1), Girit CO, Crommie MF, Zettl A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. email@jannikmeyer.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):283-4.

Observing the individual building blocks of matter is one of the primary goals of
microscopy. The invention of the scanning tunnelling microscope revolutionized
experimental surface science in that atomic-scale features on a solid-state
surface could finally be readily imaged. However, scanning tunnelling microscopy 
has limited applicability due to restrictions in, for example, sample
conductivity, cleanliness, and data acquisition rate. An older microscopy
technique, that of transmission electron microscopy (TEM), has benefited
tremendously in recent years from subtle instrumentation advances, and individual
heavy (high-atomic-number) atoms can now be detected by TEM even when embedded
within a semiconductor material. But detecting an individual low-atomic-number
atom, for example carbon or even hydrogen, is still extremely challenging, if not
impossible, via conventional TEM owing to the very low contrast of light
elements. Here we demonstrate a means to observe, by conventional TEM, even the
smallest atoms and molecules: on a clean single-layer graphene membrane,
adsorbates such as atomic hydrogen and carbon can be seen as if they were
suspended in free space. We directly image such individual adatoms, along with
carbon chains and vacancies, and investigate their dynamics in real time. These
techniques open a way to reveal dynamics of more complex chemical reactions or
identify the atomic-scale structure of unknown adsorbates. In addition, the study
of atomic-scale defects in graphene may provide insights for nanoelectronic
applications of this interesting material.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07094 
PMID: 18633414 


460. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):315-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07112.

Climbing the Jaynes-Cummings ladder and observing its nonlinearity in a cavity
QED system.

Fink JM(1), Göppl M, Baur M, Bianchetti R, Leek PJ, Blais A, Wallraff A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, ETH Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland.
jfink@phys.ethz.ch

The field of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), traditionally studied in
atomic systems, has gained new momentum by recent reports of quantum optical
experiments with solid-state semiconducting and superconducting systems. In
cavity QED, the observation of the vacuum Rabi mode splitting is used to
investigate the nature of matter-light interaction at a quantum-mechanical level.
However, this effect can, at least in principle, be explained classically as the 
normal mode splitting of two coupled linear oscillators. It has been suggested
that an observation of the scaling of the resonant atom-photon coupling strength 
in the Jaynes-Cummings energy ladder with the square root of photon number n is
sufficient to prove that the system is quantum mechanical in nature. Here we
report a direct spectroscopic observation of this characteristic quantum
nonlinearity. Measuring the photonic degree of freedom of the coupled system, our
measurements provide unambiguous spectroscopic evidence for the quantum nature of
the resonant atom-field interaction in cavity QED. We explore atom-photon
superposition states involving up to two photons, using a spectroscopic pump and 
probe technique. The experiments have been performed in a circuit QED set-up, in 
which very strong coupling is realized by the large dipole coupling strength and 
the long coherence time of a superconducting qubit embedded in a high-quality
on-chip microwave cavity. Circuit QED systems also provide a natural quantum
interface between flying qubits (photons) and stationary qubits for applications 
in quantum information processing and communication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07112 
PMID: 18633413 


461. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):310-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07136.

Generation of Fock states in a superconducting quantum circuit.

Hofheinz M(1), Weig EM, Ansmann M, Bialczak RC, Lucero E, Neeley M, O'Connell AD,
Wang H, Martinis JM, Cleland AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106, USA.

Spin systems and harmonic oscillators comprise two archetypes in quantum
mechanics. The spin-1/2 system, with two quantum energy levels, is essentially
the most nonlinear system found in nature, whereas the harmonic oscillator
represents the most linear, with an infinite number of evenly spaced quantum
levels. A significant difference between these systems is that a two-level spin
can be prepared in an arbitrary quantum state using classical excitations,
whereas classical excitations applied to an oscillator generate a coherent state,
nearly indistinguishable from a classical state. Quantum behaviour in an
oscillator is most obvious in Fock states, which are states with specific numbers
of energy quanta, but such states are hard to create. Here we demonstrate the
controlled generation of multi-photon Fock states in a solid-state system. We use
a superconducting phase qubit, which is a close approximation to a two-level spin
system, coupled to a microwave resonator, which acts as a harmonic oscillator, to
prepare and analyse pure Fock states with up to six photons. We contrast the Fock
states with coherent states generated using classical pulses applied directly to 
the resonator.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07136 
PMID: 18633412 


462. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):305-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07097. Epub 2008 Jul 16.

Hydrated silicate minerals on Mars observed by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter
CRISM instrument.

Mustard JF(1), Murchie SL, Pelkey SM, Ehlmann BL, Milliken RE, Grant JA, Bibring 
JP, Poulet F, Bishop J, Dobrea EN, Roach L, Seelos F, Arvidson RE, Wiseman S,
Green R, Hash C, Humm D, Malaret E, McGovern JA, Seelos K, Clancy T, Clark R,
Marais DD, Izenberg N, Knudson A, Langevin Y, Martin T, McGuire P, Morris R,
Robinson M, Roush T, Smith M, Swayze G, Taylor H, Titus T, Wolff M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 
02912, USA. john_mustard@brown.edu

Phyllosilicates, a class of hydrous mineral first definitively identified on Mars
by the OMEGA (Observatoire pour la Mineralogie, L'Eau, les Glaces et l'Activitié)
instrument, preserve a record of the interaction of water with rocks on Mars.
Global mapping showed that phyllosilicates are widespread but are apparently
restricted to ancient terrains and a relatively narrow range of mineralogy (Fe/Mg
and Al smectite clays). This was interpreted to indicate that phyllosilicate
formation occurred during the Noachian (the earliest geological era of Mars), and
that the conditions necessary for phyllosilicate formation (moderate to high pH
and high water activity) were specific to surface environments during the
earliest era of Mars's history. Here we report results from the Compact
Reconnaissance Imaging Spectrometer for Mars (CRISM) of phyllosilicate-rich
regions. We expand the diversity of phyllosilicate mineralogy with the
identification of kaolinite, chlorite and illite or muscovite, and a new class of
hydrated silicate (hydrated silica). We observe diverse Fe/Mg-OH phyllosilicates 
and find that smectites such as nontronite and saponite are the most common, but 
chlorites are also present in some locations. Stratigraphic relationships in the 
Nili Fossae region show olivine-rich materials overlying phyllosilicate-bearing
units, indicating the cessation of aqueous alteration before emplacement of the
olivine-bearing unit. Hundreds of detections of Fe/Mg phyllosilicate in rims,
ejecta and central peaks of craters in the southern highland Noachian cratered
terrain indicate excavation of altered crust from depth. We also find
phyllosilicate in sedimentary deposits clearly laid by water. These results point
to a rich diversity of Noachian environments conducive to habitability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07097 
PMID: 18633411 


463. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):302-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07105.

Strong magnetic fields in normal galaxies at high redshift.

Bernet ML(1), Miniati F, Lilly SJ, Kronberg PP, Dessauges-Zavadsky M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, ETH Zürich, Wolfgang-Pauli-Strasse 16, CH-8093 Zürich, 
Switzerland.

The origin and growth of magnetic fields in galaxies is still something of an
enigma. It is generally assumed that seed fields are amplified over time through 
the dynamo effect, but there are few constraints on the timescale. It was
recently demonstrated that field strengths as traced by rotation measures of
distant (and hence ancient) quasars are comparable to those seen today, but it
was unclear whether the high fields were in the unusual environments of the
quasars themselves or distributed along the lines of sight. Here we report
high-resolution spectra that demonstrate that the quasars with strong Mg II
absorption lines are unambiguously associated with larger rotation measures.
Because Mg ii absorption occurs in the haloes of normal galaxies along the
sightlines to the quasars, this association requires that organized fields of
surprisingly high strengths are associated with normal galaxies when the Universe
was only about one-third of its present age.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07105 
PMID: 18633410 


464. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):291-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07118.

Positive feedback of G1 cyclins ensures coherent cell cycle entry.

Skotheim JM(1), Di Talia S, Siggia ED, Cross FR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Studies in Physics and Biology, The Rockefeller University, New
York 10065, USA. skotheim@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):288-9.

In budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the Start checkpoint integrates
multiple internal and external signals into an all-or-none decision to enter the 
cell cycle. Here we show that Start behaves like a switch due to systems-level
feedback in the regulatory network. In contrast to current models proposing a
linear cascade of Start activation, transcriptional positive feedback of the G1
cyclins Cln1 and Cln2 induces the near-simultaneous expression of the
approximately 200-gene G1/S regulon. Nuclear Cln2 drives coherent regulon
expression, whereas cytoplasmic Cln2 drives efficient budding. Cells with the
CLN1 and CLN2 genes deleted frequently arrest as unbudded cells, incurring a
large fluctuation-induced fitness penalty due to both the lack of cytoplasmic
Cln2 and insufficient G1/S regulon expression. Thus, positive-feedback-amplified 
expression of Cln1 and Cln2 simultaneously drives robust budding and rapid,
coherent regulon expression. A similar G1/S regulatory network in mammalian
cells, comprised of non-orthologous genes, suggests either conservation of
regulatory architecture or convergent evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07118 
PMCID: PMC2606905
PMID: 18633409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):297-301. doi: 10.1038/nature07098. Epub 2008 Jul 2.

The cohesin ring concatenates sister DNA molecules.

Haering CH(1), Farcas AM, Arumugam P, Metson J, Nasmyth K.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, Department of Biochemistry, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3QU, UK.

Sister chromatid cohesion, which is essential for mitosis, is mediated by a
multi-subunit protein complex called cohesin. Cohesin's Scc1, Smc1 and Smc3
subunits form a tripartite ring structure, and it has been proposed that cohesin 
holds sister DNA molecules together by trapping them inside its ring. To test
this, we used site-specific crosslinking to create chemical connections at the
three interfaces between the three constituent polypeptides of the ring, thereby 
creating covalently closed cohesin rings. As predicted by the ring entrapment
model, this procedure produced dimeric DNA-cohesin structures that are resistant 
to protein denaturation. We conclude that cohesin rings concatenate individual
sister minichromosome DNA molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07098 
PMID: 18596691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):340-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06993. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

The role of the orbitofrontal cortex in the pursuit of happiness and more
specific rewards.

Burke KA(1), Franz TM, Miller DN, Schoenbaum G.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neuroscience, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 20 Penn
Street, HSF-2 S251 Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA.

Cues that reliably predict rewards trigger the thoughts and emotions normally
evoked by those rewards. Humans and other animals will work, often quite hard,
for these cues. This is termed conditioned reinforcement. The ability to use
conditioned reinforcers to guide our behaviour is normally beneficial; however,
it can go awry. For example, corporate icons, such as McDonald's Golden Arches,
influence consumer behaviour in powerful and sometimes surprising ways, and
drug-associated cues trigger relapse to drug seeking in addicts and animals
exposed to addictive drugs, even after abstinence or extinction. Yet, despite
their prevalence, it is not known how conditioned reinforcers control human or
other animal behaviour. One possibility is that they act through the use of the
specific rewards they predict; alternatively, they could control behaviour
directly by activating emotions that are independent of any specific reward. In
other words, the Golden Arches may drive business because they evoke thoughts of 
hamburgers and fries, or instead, may be effective because they also evoke
feelings of hunger or happiness. Moreover, different brain circuits could support
conditioned reinforcement mediated by thoughts of specific outcomes versus more
general affective information. Here we have attempted to address these questions 
in rats. Rats were trained to learn that different cues predicted different
rewards using specialized conditioning procedures that controlled whether the
cues evoked thoughts of specific outcomes or general affective representations
common to different outcomes. Subsequently, these rats were given the opportunity
to press levers to obtain short and otherwise unrewarded presentations of these
cues. We found that rats were willing to work for cues that evoked either
outcome-specific or general affective representations. Furthermore the
orbitofrontal cortex, a prefrontal region important for adaptive decision-making,
was critical for the former but not for the latter form of conditioned
reinforcement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06993 
PMCID: PMC2727745
PMID: 18563088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):335-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07020. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

Control of segment number in vertebrate embryos.

Gomez C(1), Ozbudak EM, Wunderlich J, Baumann D, Lewis J, Pourquié O.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):282-3.

The vertebrate body axis is subdivided into repeated segments, best exemplified
by the vertebrae that derive from embryonic somites. The number of somites is
precisely defined for any given species but varies widely from one species to
another. To determine the mechanism controlling somite number, we have compared
somitogenesis in zebrafish, chicken, mouse and corn snake embryos. Here we
present evidence that in all of these species a similar 'clock-and-wavefront'
mechanism operates to control somitogenesis; in all of them, somitogenesis is
brought to an end through a process in which the presomitic mesoderm, having
first increased in size, gradually shrinks until it is exhausted, terminating
somite formation. In snake embryos, however, the segmentation clock rate is much 
faster relative to developmental rate than in other amniotes, leading to a
greatly increased number of smaller-sized somites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07020 
PMID: 18563087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):327-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07028. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

A unifying framework for dinitrogen fixation in the terrestrial biosphere.

Houlton BZ(1), Wang YP, Vitousek PM, Field CB.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
bzhoulton@ucdavis.edu

Dinitrogen (N(2)) fixation is widely recognized as an important process in
controlling ecosystem responses to global environmental change, both today and in
the past; however, significant discrepancies exist between theory and
observations of patterns of N(2) fixation across major sectors of the land
biosphere. A question remains as to why symbiotic N(2)-fixing plants are more
abundant in vast areas of the tropics than in many of the mature forests that
seem to be nitrogen-limited in the temperate and boreal zones. Here we present a 
unifying framework for terrestrial N(2) fixation that can explain the geographic 
occurrence of N(2) fixers across diverse biomes and at the global scale. By
examining trade-offs inherent in plant carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus capture,
we find a clear advantage to symbiotic N(2) fixers in phosphorus-limited tropical
savannas and lowland tropical forests. The ability of N(2) fixers to invest
nitrogen into phosphorus acquisition seems vital to sustained N(2) fixation in
phosphorus-limited tropical ecosystems. In contrast, modern-day temperatures seem
to constrain N(2) fixation rates and N(2)-fixing species from mature forests in
the high latitudes. We propose that an analysis that couples biogeochemical
cycling and biophysical mechanisms is sufficient to explain the principal
geographical patterns of symbiotic N(2) fixation on land, thus providing a basis 
for predicting the response of nutrient-limited ecosystems to climate change and 
increasing atmospheric CO(2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07028 
PMID: 18563086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):353-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07050. Epub 2008 Jun 15.

Positive feedback sharpens the anaphase switch.

Holt LJ(1), Krutchinsky AN, Morgan DO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, San Francisco, California 
94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):288-9.

At the onset of anaphase, sister-chromatid cohesion is dissolved abruptly and
irreversibly, ensuring that all chromosome pairs disjoin almost simultaneously.
The regulatory mechanisms that generate this switch-like behaviour are unclear.
Anaphase is initiated when a ubiquitin ligase, the anaphase-promoting complex
(APC), triggers the destruction of securin, thereby allowing separase, a
protease, to disrupt sister-chromatid cohesion. Here we demonstrate that the
cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1)-dependent phosphorylation of securin near its
destruction-box motif inhibits securin ubiquitination by the APC. The phosphatase
Cdc14 reverses securin phosphorylation, thereby increasing the rate of securin
ubiquitination. Because separase is known to activate Cdc14 (refs 5 and 6), our
results support the existence of a positive feedback loop that increases the
abruptness of anaphase. Consistent with this model, we show that mutations that
disrupt securin phosphoregulation decrease the synchrony of chromosome
segregation. Our results also suggest that coupling securin degradation with
changes in Cdk1 and Cdc14 activities helps coordinate the initiation of
sister-chromatid separation with changes in spindle dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07050 
PMCID: PMC2636747
PMID: 18552837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):358-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07033. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

Structural basis of specific tRNA aminoacylation by a small in vitro selected
ribozyme.

Xiao H(1), Murakami H, Suga H, Ferré-D'Amaré AR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100
Fairview Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98109-1024, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Mar;12(3):135.

In modern organisms, protein enzymes are solely responsible for the
aminoacylation of transfer RNA. However, the evolution of protein synthesis in
the RNA world required RNAs capable of catalysing this reaction. Ribozymes that
aminoacylate RNA by using activated amino acids have been discovered through
selection in vitro. Flexizyme is a 45-nucleotide ribozyme capable of charging
tRNA in trans with various activated l-phenylalanine derivatives. In addition to 
a more than 10(5) rate enhancement and more than 10(4)-fold discrimination
against some non-cognate amino acids, this ribozyme achieves good
regioselectivity: of all the hydroxyl groups of a tRNA, it exclusively
aminoacylates the terminal 3'-OH. Here we report the 2.8-A resolution structure
of flexizyme fused to a substrate RNA. Together with randomization of ribozyme
core residues and reselection, this structure shows that very few nucleotides are
needed for the aminoacylation of specific tRNAs. Although it primarily recognizes
tRNA through base-pairing with the CCA terminus of the tRNA molecule, flexizyme
makes numerous local interactions to position the acceptor end of tRNA precisely.
A comparison of two crystallographically independent flexizyme conformations,
only one of which appears capable of binding activated phenylalanine, suggests
that this ribozyme may achieve enhanced specificity by coupling active-site
folding to tRNA docking. Such a mechanism would be reminiscent of the mutually
induced fit of tRNA and protein employed by some aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases to
increase specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07033 
PMID: 18548004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):345-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07027. Epub 2008 Jun 4.

IGFBP-4 is an inhibitor of canonical Wnt signalling required for cardiogenesis.

Zhu W(1), Shiojima I, Ito Y, Li Z, Ikeda H, Yoshida M, Naito AT, Nishi J, Ueno H,
Umezawa A, Minamino T, Nagai T, Kikuchi A, Asashima M, Komuro I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Science and Medicine, Chiba University Graduate
School of Medicine, Chiba 260-8670, Japan.

Insulin-like growth-factor-binding proteins (IGFBPs) bind to and modulate the
actions of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs). Although some of the actions of
IGFBPs have been reported to be independent of IGFs, the precise mechanisms of
IGF-independent actions of IGFBPs are largely unknown. Here we report a
previously unknown function for IGFBP-4 as a cardiogenic growth factor. IGFBP-4
enhanced cardiomyocyte differentiation in vitro, and knockdown of Igfbp4
attenuated cardiomyogenesis both in vitro and in vivo. The cardiogenic effect of 
IGFBP-4 was independent of its IGF-binding activity but was mediated by the
inhibitory effect on canonical Wnt signalling. IGFBP-4 physically interacted with
a Wnt receptor, Frizzled 8 (Frz8), and a Wnt co-receptor, low-density lipoprotein
receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6), and inhibited the binding of Wnt3A to Frz8 and
LRP6. Although IGF-independent, the cardiogenic effect of IGFBP-4 was attenuated 
by IGFs through IGFBP-4 sequestration. IGFBP-4 is therefore an inhibitor of the
canonical Wnt signalling required for cardiogenesis and provides a molecular link
between IGF signalling and Wnt signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07027 
PMID: 18528331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nature. 2008 Jul 17;454(7202):350-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07021. Epub 2008 May 11.

IL-21 and TGF-beta are required for differentiation of human T(H)17 cells.

Yang L(1), Anderson DE, Baecher-Allan C, Hastings WD, Bettelli E, Oukka M,
Kuchroo VK, Hafler DA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Immunology, Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The recent discovery of CD4(+) T cells characterized by secretion of interleukin 
(IL)-17 (T(H)17 cells) and the naturally occurring regulatory FOXP3(+) CD4 T cell
(nT(reg)) has had a major impact on our understanding of immune processes not
readily explained by the T(H)1/T(H)2 paradigm. T(H)17 and nT(reg) cells have been
implicated in the pathogenesis of human autoimmune diseases, including multiple
sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriasis. Our
recent data and the work of others demonstrated that transforming growth
factor-beta (TGF-beta) and IL-6 are responsible for the differentiation of naive 
mouse T cells into T(H)17 cells, and it has been proposed that IL-23 may have a
critical role in stabilization of the T(H)17 phenotype. A second pathway has been
discovered in which a combination of TGF-beta and IL-21 is capable of inducing
differentiation of mouse T(H)17 cells in the absence of IL-6 (refs 6-8). However,
TGF-beta and IL-6 are not capable of differentiating human T(H)17 cells and it
has been suggested that TGF-beta may in fact suppress the generation of human
T(H)17 cells. Instead, it has been recently shown that the cytokines IL-1beta,
IL-6 and IL-23 are capable of driving IL-17 secretion in short-term CD4(+) T cell
lines isolated from human peripheral blood, although the factors required for
differentiation of naive human CD4 to T(H)17 cells are still unknown. Here we
confirm that whereas IL-1beta and IL-6 induce IL-17A secretion from human central
memory CD4(+) T cells, TGF-beta and IL-21 uniquely promote the differentiation of
human naive CD4(+) T cells into T(H)17 cells accompanied by expression of the
transcription factor RORC2. These data will allow the investigation of this new
population of T(H)17 cells in human inflammatory disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07021 
PMCID: PMC2760130
PMID: 18469800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):213-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06940.

Social diversity promotes the emergence of cooperation in public goods games.

Santos FC(1), Santos MD, Pacheco JM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherches Interdisciplinaires et de Développements en
Intelligence Artificielle (IRIDIA), Computer and Decision Engineering Department,
Université Libre de Bruxelles, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium.

Humans often cooperate in public goods games and situations ranging from family
issues to global warming. However, evolutionary game theory predicts that the
temptation to forgo the public good mostly wins over collective cooperative
action, and this is often also seen in economic experiments. Here we show how
social diversity provides an escape from this apparent paradox. Up to now,
individuals have been treated as equivalent in all respects, in sharp contrast
with real-life situations, where diversity is ubiquitous. We introduce social
diversity by means of heterogeneous graphs and show that cooperation is promoted 
by the diversity associated with the number and size of the public goods game in 
which each individual participates and with the individual contribution to each
such game. When social ties follow a scale-free distribution, cooperation is
enhanced whenever all individuals are expected to contribute a fixed amount
irrespective of the plethora of public goods games in which they engage. Our
results may help to explain the emergence of cooperation in the absence of
mechanisms based on individual reputation and punishment. Combining social
diversity with reputation and punishment will provide instrumental clues on the
self-organization of social communities and their economical implications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06940 
PMID: 18615084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07108.

The evolutionary origin of flatfish asymmetry.

Friedman M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Evolutionary Biology, University of Chicago, 1025 East 57th
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. mattf@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):169-70.

All adult flatfishes (Pleuronectiformes), including the gastronomically familiar 
plaice, sole, turbot and halibut, have highly asymmetrical skulls, with both eyes
placed on one side of the head. This arrangement, one of the most extraordinary
anatomical specializations among vertebrates, arises through migration of one eye
during late larval development. Although the transformation of symmetrical larvae
into asymmetrical juveniles is well documented, the evolutionary origins of
flatfish asymmetry are uncertain because there are no transitional forms linking 
flatfishes with their symmetrical relatives. The supposed inviability of such
intermediates gave pleuronectiforms a prominent role in evolutionary debates,
leading to attacks on natural selection and arguments for saltatory change. Here 
I show that Amphistium and the new genus Heteronectes, both extinct spiny-finned 
fishes from the Eocene epoch of Europe, are the most primitive pleuronectiforms
known. The orbital region of the skull in both taxa is strongly asymmetrical, as 
in living flatfishes, but these genera retain many primitive characters unknown
in extant forms. Most remarkably, orbital migration was incomplete in Amphistium 
and Heteronectes, with eyes remaining on opposite sides of the head in
post-metamorphic individuals. This condition is intermediate between that in
living pleuronectiforms and the arrangement found in other fishes. Amphistium and
Heteronectes indicate that the evolution of the profound cranial asymmetry of
extant flatfishes was gradual in nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07108 
PMID: 18615083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):204-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07111.

Preseismic velocity changes observed from active source monitoring at the
Parkfield SAFOD drill site.

Niu F(1), Silver PG, Daley TM, Cheng X, Majer EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science, MS-126, Rice University, 6100 Main Street,
Houston, Texas 77005, USA. niu@rice.edu

Measuring stress changes within seismically active fault zones has been a
long-sought goal of seismology. One approach is to exploit the stress dependence 
of seismic wave velocity, and we have investigated this in an active source
cross-well experiment at the San Andreas Fault Observatory at Depth (SAFOD) drill
site. Here we show that stress changes are indeed measurable using this
technique. Over a two-month period, we observed an excellent anti-correlation
between changes in the time required for a shear wave to travel through the rock 
along a fixed pathway (a few microseconds) and variations in barometric pressure.
We also observed two large excursions in the travel-time data that are coincident
with two earthquakes that are among those predicted to produce the largest
coseismic stress changes at SAFOD. The two excursions started approximately 10
and 2 hours before the events, respectively, suggesting that they may be related 
to pre-rupture stress induced changes in crack properties, as observed in early
laboratory studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07111 
PMID: 18615082 


476. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):200-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07095.

A multi-component Fermi surface in the vortex state of an underdoped high-Tc
superconductor.

Sebastian SE(1), Harrison N, Palm E, Murphy TP, Mielke CH, Liang R, Bonn DA,
Hardy WN, Lonzarich GG.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge University, JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge CB3
OHE, UK. suchitra@phy.cam.ac.uk

To understand the origin of superconductivity, it is crucial to ascertain the
nature and origin of the primary carriers available to participate in pairing.
Recent quantum oscillation experiments on high-transition-temperature (high-T(c))
copper oxide superconductors have revealed the existence of a Fermi surface akin 
to that in normal metals, comprising fermionic carriers that undergo orbital
quantization. The unexpectedly small size of the observed carrier pocket,
however, leaves open a variety of possibilities for the existence or form of any 
underlying magnetic order, and its relation to d-wave superconductivity. Here we 
report experiments on quantum oscillations in the magnetization (the de Haas-van 
Alphen effect) in superconducting YBa(2)Cu(3)O(6.51) that reveal more than one
carrier pocket. In particular, we find evidence for the existence of a much
larger pocket of heavier mass carriers playing a thermodynamically dominant role 
in this hole-doped superconductor. Importantly, characteristics of the multiple
pockets within this more complete Fermi surface impose constraints on the
wavevector of any underlying order and the location of the carriers in momentum
space. These constraints enable us to construct a possible density-wave model
with spiral or related modulated magnetic order, consistent with experimental
observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07095 
PMID: 18615081 


477. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07099.

Quadrupole transitions revealed by Borrmann spectroscopy.

Pettifer RF(1), Collins SP, Laundy D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.

The Borrmann effect-a dramatic increase in transparency to X-ray beams-is
observed when X-rays satisfying Bragg's law diffract through a perfect crystal.
The minimization of absorption seen in the Borrmann effect has been explained by 
noting that the electric field of the X-ray beam approaches zero amplitude at the
crystal planes, thus avoiding the atoms. Here we show experimentally that under
conditions of absorption suppression, the weaker electric quadrupole absorption
transitions are effectively enhanced to such a degree that they can dominate the 
absorption spectrum. This effect can be exploited as an atomic spectroscopy
technique; we show that quadrupole transitions give rise to additional structure 
at the L(1), L(2) and L(3) absorption edges of gadolinium in gadolinium gallium
garnet, which mark the onset of excitations from 2s, 2p(1/2) and 2p(3/2) atomic
core levels, respectively. Although the Borrmann effect served to underpin the
development of the theory of X-ray diffraction, this is potentially the most
important experimental application of the phenomenon since its first observation 
seven decades ago. Identifying quadrupole features in X-ray absorption
spectroscopy is central to the interpretation of 'pre-edge' spectra, which are
often taken to be indicators of local symmetry, valence and atomic environment.
Quadrupolar absorption isolates states of different symmetries to that of the
dominant dipole spectrum, and typically reveals orbitals that dominate the
electronic ground-state properties of lanthanides and 3d transition metals,
including magnetism. Results from our Borrmann spectroscopy technique feed into
contemporary discussions regarding resonant X-ray diffraction and the nature of
pre-edge lines identified by inelastic X-ray scattering. Furthermore, because the
Borrmann effect has been observed in photonic materials, it seems likely that the
quadrupole enhancement reported here will play an important role in modern
optics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07099 
PMID: 18615080 


478. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):192-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07047.

Volatile content of lunar volcanic glasses and the presence of water in the
Moon's interior.

Saal AE(1), Hauri EH, Cascio ML, Van Orman JA, Rutherford MC, Cooper RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 
02912, USA. asaal@brown.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):170-2.

The Moon is generally thought to have formed and evolved through a single or a
series of catastrophic heating events, during which most of the highly volatile
elements were lost. Hydrogen, being the lightest element, is believed to have
been completely lost during this period. Here we make use of considerable
advances in secondary ion mass spectrometry to obtain improved limits on the
indigenous volatile (CO(2), H(2)O, F, S and Cl) contents of the most primitive
basalts in the Moon-the lunar volcanic glasses. Although the pre-eruptive water
content of the lunar volcanic glasses cannot be precisely constrained, numerical 
modelling of diffusive degassing of the very-low-Ti glasses provides a best
estimate of 745 p.p.m. water, with a minimum of 260 p.p.m. at the 95 per cent
confidence level. Our results indicate that, contrary to prevailing ideas, the
bulk Moon might not be entirely depleted in highly volatile elements, including
water. Thus, the presence of water must be considered in models constraining the 
Moon's formation and its thermal and chemical evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07047 
PMID: 18615079 


479. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):188-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07078.

Rotational breakup as the origin of small binary asteroids.

Walsh KJ(1), Richardson DC, Michel P.

Author information: 
(1)UMR 6202 Cassiopée, University of Nice-Sophia Antipolis, CNRS, Observatoire de
la Côte d'Azur, BP 4229, 06304 Nice Cedex 4, France. kwalsh@oca.eu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):173-4.

Asteroids with satellites are observed throughout the Solar System, from
subkilometre near-Earth asteroid pairs to systems of large and distant bodies in 
the Kuiper belt. The smallest and closest systems are found among the near-Earth 
and small inner main-belt asteroids, which typically have rapidly rotating
primaries and close secondaries on circular orbits. About 15 per cent of
near-Earth and main-belt asteroids with diameters under 10 km have satellites.
The mechanism that forms such similar binaries in these two dynamically different
populations was hitherto unclear. Here we show that these binaries are created by
the slow spinup of a 'rubble pile' asteroid by means of the thermal YORP
(Yarkovsky-O'Keefe-Radzievskii-Paddack) effect. We find that mass shed from the
equator of a critically spinning body accretes into a satellite if the material
is collisionally dissipative and the primary maintains a low equatorial
elongation. The satellite forms mostly from material originating near the
primary's surface and enters into a close, low-eccentricity orbit. The properties
of binaries produced by our model match those currently observed in the small
near-Earth and main-belt asteroid populations, including 1999 KW(4) (refs 3, 4).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07078 
PMID: 18615078 


480. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):177-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07082.

Structure of the Ebola virus glycoprotein bound to an antibody from a human
survivor.

Lee JE(1), Fusco ML, Hessell AJ, Oswald WB, Burton DR, Saphire EO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, The Scripps Research
Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, Mail Drop IMM-2, La Jolla, California
92037, USA.

Ebola virus (EBOV) entry requires the surface glycoprotein (GP) to initiate
attachment and fusion of viral and host membranes. Here we report the crystal
structure of EBOV GP in its trimeric, pre-fusion conformation (GP1+GP2) bound to 
a neutralizing antibody, KZ52, derived from a human survivor of the 1995 Kikwit
outbreak. Three GP1 viral attachment subunits assemble to form a chalice, cradled
by the GP2 fusion subunits, while a novel glycan cap and projected mucin-like
domain restrict access to the conserved receptor-binding site sequestered in the 
chalice bowl. The glycocalyx surrounding GP is likely central to immune evasion
and may explain why survivors have insignificant neutralizing antibody titres.
KZ52 recognizes a protein epitope at the chalice base where it clamps several
regions of the pre-fusion GP2 to the amino terminus of GP1. This structure
provides a template for unravelling the mechanism of EBOV GP-mediated fusion and 
for future immunotherapeutic development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07082 
PMCID: PMC2700032
PMID: 18615077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):E1; discussion E2. doi: 10.1038/nature07122.

Do female hyaenas choose mates based on tenure?

Van Horn RC(1), Watts HE, Holekamp KE.

Author information: 
(1)Zoological Society of San Diego, Conservation and Research for Endangered
Species, P.O. Box 120551, San Diego, California 92112-0551, USA.
rvanhorn@sandiegozoo.org

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Aug 16;448(7155):798-801.

In their investigation into whether female mate-choice drives male dispersal,
Höner et al. argue that female spotted hyaenas (Crocuta crocuta) prefer mates
whose tenure in the social group is less than the females' age, to avoid paternal
incest, and suggest that male dispersal reflects this preference. However, we are
not persuaded that females choose mates on the basis of tenure because Höner et
al. overlook the alternative hypothesis that dispersal status itself is important
in female mate-choice, such that females prefer immigrants over natal males. Like
mate-choice based on tenure, choice based on dispersal status reduces the risk of
incest.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07122 
PMID: 18615020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):226-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07064. Epub 2008 Jun 22.

IRF4 addiction in multiple myeloma.

Shaffer AL(1), Emre NC, Lamy L, Ngo VN, Wright G, Xiao W, Powell J, Dave S, Yu X,
Zhao H, Zeng Y, Chen B, Epstein J, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):172-3.

The transcription factor IRF4 (interferon regulatory factor 4) is required during
an immune response for lymphocyte activation and the generation of
immunoglobulin-secreting plasma cells. Multiple myeloma, a malignancy of plasma
cells, has a complex molecular aetiology with several subgroups defined by gene
expression profiling and recurrent chromosomal translocations. Moreover, the
malignant clone can sustain multiple oncogenic lesions, accumulating genetic
damage as the disease progresses. Current therapies for myeloma can extend
survival but are not curative. Hence, new therapeutic strategies are needed that 
target molecular pathways shared by all subtypes of myeloma. Here we show, using 
a loss-of-function, RNA-interference-based genetic screen, that IRF4 inhibition
is toxic to myeloma cell lines, regardless of transforming oncogenic mechanism.
Gene expression profiling and genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis 
uncovered an extensive network of IRF4 target genes and identified MYC as a
direct target of IRF4 in activated B cells and myeloma. Unexpectedly, IRF4 was
itself a direct target of MYC transactivation, generating an autoregulatory
circuit in myeloma cells. Although IRF4 is not genetically altered in most
myelomas, they are nonetheless addicted to an aberrant IRF4 regulatory network
that fuses the gene expression programmes of normal plasma cells and activated B 
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07064 
PMCID: PMC2542904
PMID: 18568025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):183-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07063. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

Crystal structure of the ligand-free G-protein-coupled receptor opsin.

Park JH(1), Scheerer P, Hofmann KP, Choe HW, Ernst OP.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Physik und Biophysik (CC2),
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany.

In the G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) rhodopsin, the inactivating ligand
11-cis-retinal is bound in the seven-transmembrane helix (TM) bundle and is
cis/trans isomerized by light to form active metarhodopsin II. With metarhodopsin
II decay, all-trans-retinal is released, and opsin is reloaded with new
11-cis-retinal. Here we present the crystal structure of ligand-free native opsin
from bovine retinal rod cells at 2.9 ångström (A) resolution. Compared to
rhodopsin, opsin shows prominent structural changes in the conserved E(D)RY and
NPxxY(x)(5,6)F regions and in TM5-TM7. At the cytoplasmic side, TM6 is tilted
outwards by 6-7 A, whereas the helix structure of TM5 is more elongated and close
to TM6. These structural changes, some of which were attributed to an active GPCR
state, reorganize the empty retinal-binding pocket to disclose two openings that 
may serve the entry and exit of retinal. The opsin structure sheds new light on
ligand binding to GPCRs and on GPCR activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07063 
PMID: 18563085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):217-20. doi: 10.1038/nature07001. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

An internal thermal sensor controlling temperature preference in Drosophila.

Hamada FN(1), Rosenzweig M, Kang K, Pulver SR, Ghezzi A, Jegla TJ, Garrity PA.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Behavioral Genomics, Volen Center for Complex Systems,
Biology Department, Brandeis University MS-008, 415 South Street, Waltham,
Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Animals from flies to humans are able to distinguish subtle gradations in
temperature and show strong temperature preferences. Animals move to environments
of optimal temperature and some manipulate the temperature of their surroundings,
as humans do using clothing and shelter. Despite the ubiquitous influence of
environmental temperature on animal behaviour, the neural circuits and strategies
through which animals select a preferred temperature remain largely unknown. Here
we identify a small set of warmth-activated anterior cell (AC) neurons located in
the Drosophila brain, the function of which is critical for preferred temperature
selection. AC neuron activation occurs just above the fly's preferred temperature
and depends on dTrpA1, an ion channel that functions as a molecular sensor of
warmth. Flies that selectively express dTrpA1 in the AC neurons select normal
temperatures, whereas flies in which dTrpA1 function is reduced or eliminated
choose warmer temperatures. This internal warmth-sensing pathway promotes
avoidance of slightly elevated temperatures and acts together with a distinct
pathway for cold avoidance to set the fly's preferred temperature. Thus, flies
select a preferred temperature by using a thermal sensing pathway tuned to
trigger avoidance of temperatures that deviate even slightly from the preferred
temperature. This provides a potentially general strategy for robustly selecting 
a narrow temperature range optimal for survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07001 
PMCID: PMC2730888
PMID: 18548007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07019. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

Osteoclast size is controlled by Fra-2 through LIF/LIF-receptor signalling and
hypoxia.

Bozec A(1), Bakiri L, Hoebertz A, Eferl R, Schilling AF, Komnenovic V, Scheuch H,
Priemel M, Stewart CL, Amling M, Wagner EF.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (I.M.P.), Dr. Bohr-Gasse 7, A-1030
Vienna, Austria.

Osteoclasts are multinucleated haematopoietic cells that resorb bone. Increased
osteoclast activity causes osteoporosis, a disorder resulting in a low bone mass 
and a high risk of fractures. Increased osteoclast size and numbers are also a
hallmark of other disorders, such as Paget's disease and multiple myeloma. The
protein c-Fos, a component of the AP-1 transcription factor complex, is essential
for osteoclast differentiation. Here we show that the Fos-related protein Fra-2
controls osteoclast survival and size. The bones of Fra-2-deficient newborn mice 
have giant osteoclasts, and signalling through leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) 
and its receptor is impaired. Similarly, newborn animals lacking LIF have giant
osteoclasts, and we show that LIF is a direct transcriptional target of Fra-2 and
c-Jun. Moreover, bones deficient in Fra-2 and LIF are hypoxic and express
increased levels of hypoxia-induced factor 1alpha (HIF1alpha) and Bcl-2.
Overexpression of Bcl-2 is sufficient to induce giant osteoclasts in vivo,
whereas Fra-2 and LIF affect HIF1alpha through transcriptional modulation of the 
HIF prolyl hydroxylase PHD2. This pathway is operative in the placenta, because
specific inactivation of Fra-2 in the embryo alone does not cause hypoxia or the 
giant osteoclast phenotype. Thus placenta-induced hypoxia during embryogenesis
leads to the formation of giant osteoclasts in young pups. These findings offer
potential targets for the treatment of syndromes associated with increased
osteoclastogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07019 
PMID: 18548006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):241-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07014. Epub 2008 Jun 4.

Mei-P26 regulates microRNAs and cell growth in the Drosophila ovarian stem cell
lineage.

Neumüller RA(1), Betschinger J, Fischer A, Bushati N, Poernbacher I, Mechtler K, 
Cohen SM, Knoblich JA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
(IMBA), Dr Bohr Gasse 3, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Drosophila neuroblasts and ovarian stem cells are well characterized models for
stem cell biology. In both cell types, one daughter cell self-renews continuously
while the other undergoes a limited number of divisions, stops to proliferate
mitotically and differentiates. Whereas neuroblasts segregate the Trim-NHL
(tripartite motif and Ncl-1, HT2A and Lin-41 domain)-containing protein Brain
tumour (Brat) into one of the two daughter cells, ovarian stem cells are
regulated by an extracellular signal from the surrounding stem cell niche. After 
division, one daughter cell looses niche contact. It undergoes 4
transit-amplifying divisions to form a cyst of 16 interconnected cells that
reduce their rate of growth and stop to proliferate mitotically. Here we show
that the Trim-NHL protein Mei-P26 (refs 7, 8) restricts growth and proliferation 
in the ovarian stem cell lineage. Mei-P26 expression is low in stem cells but is 
strongly induced in 16-cell cysts. In mei-P26 mutants, transit-amplifying cells
are larger and proliferate indefinitely leading to the formation of an ovarian
tumour. Like brat, mei-P26 regulates nucleolar size and can induce
differentiation in Drosophila neuroblasts, suggesting that these genes act
through the same pathway. We identify Argonaute-1, a component of the RISC
complex, as a common binding partner of Brat and Mei-P26, and show that Mei-P26
acts by inhibiting the microRNA pathway. Mei-P26 and Brat have a similar domain
composition that is also found in other tumour suppressors and might be a
defining property of a new family of microRNA regulators that act specifically in
stem cell lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07014 
PMCID: PMC2988194
PMID: 18528333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature06998. Epub 2008 May 25.

Imaging the biogenesis of individual HIV-1 virions in live cells.

Jouvenet N(1), Bieniasz PD, Simon SM.

Author information: 
(1)Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, The Rockefeller University, New York, New 
York 10065, USA.

Observations of individual virions in live cells have led to the characterization
of their attachment, entry and intracellular transport. However, the assembly of 
individual virions has never been observed in real time. Insights into this
process have come primarily from biochemical analyses of populations of virions
or from microscopic studies of fixed infected cells. Thus, some assembly
properties, such as kinetics and location, are either unknown or controversial.
Here we describe quantitatively the genesis of individual virions in real time,
from initiation of assembly to budding and release. We studied fluorescently
tagged derivatives of Gag, the major structural component of HIV-1-which is
sufficient to drive the assembly of virus-like particles-with the use of
fluorescence resonance energy transfer, fluorescence recovery after
photobleaching and total-internal-reflection fluorescent microscopy in living
cells. Virions appeared individually at the plasma membrane, their assembly rate 
accelerated as Gag protein accumulated in cells, and typically 5-6 min was
required to complete the assembly of a single virion. These approaches allow a
previously unobserved view of the genesis of individual virions and the
determination of parameters of viral assembly that are inaccessible with
conventional techniques.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06998 
PMCID: PMC2708942
PMID: 18500329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):232-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07006. Epub 2008 May 4.

Essential role for Nix in autophagic maturation of erythroid cells.

Sandoval H(1), Thiagarajan P, Dasgupta SK, Schumacher A, Prchal JT, Chen M, Wang 
J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030,
USA.

Erythroid cells undergo enucleation and the removal of organelles during terminal
differentiation. Although autophagy has been suggested to mediate the elimination
of organelles for erythroid maturation, the molecular mechanisms underlying this 
process remain undefined. Here we report a role for a Bcl-2 family member, Nix
(also called Bnip3L), in the regulation of erythroid maturation through
mitochondrial autophagy. Nix(-/-) mice developed anaemia with reduced mature
erythrocytes and compensatory expansion of erythroid precursors. Erythrocytes in 
the peripheral blood of Nix(-/-) mice exhibited mitochondrial retention and
reduced lifespan in vivo. Although the clearance of ribosomes proceeded normally 
in the absence of Nix, the entry of mitochondria into autophagosomes for
clearance was defective. Deficiency in Nix inhibited the loss of mitochondrial
membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)), and treatment with uncoupling chemicals or a
BH3 mimetic induced the loss of DeltaPsi(m) and restored the sequestration of
mitochondria into autophagosomes in Nix(-/-) erythroid cells. These results
suggest that Nix-dependent loss of DeltaPsi(m) is important for targeting the
mitochondria into autophagosomes for clearance during erythroid maturation, and
interference with this function impairs erythroid maturation and results in
anaemia. Our study may also provide insights into molecular mechanisms underlying
mitochondrial quality control involving mitochondrial autophagy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07006 
PMCID: PMC2570948
PMID: 18454133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06927.

Functional asymmetry in Caenorhabditis elegans taste neurons and its
computational role in chemotaxis.

Suzuki H(1), Thiele TR, Faumont S, Ezcurra M, Lockery SR, Schafer WR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Chemotaxis in Caenorhabditis elegans, like chemotaxis in bacteria, involves a
random walk biased by the time derivative of attractant concentration, but how
the derivative is computed is unknown. Laser ablations have shown that the
strongest deficits in chemotaxis to salts are obtained when the ASE chemosensory 
neurons (ASEL and ASER) are ablated, indicating that this pair has a dominant
role. Although these neurons are left-right homologues anatomically, they exhibit
marked asymmetries in gene expression and ion preference. Here, using optical
recordings of calcium concentration in ASE neurons in intact animals, we
demonstrate an additional asymmetry: ASEL is an ON-cell, stimulated by increases 
in NaCl concentration, whereas ASER is an OFF-cell, stimulated by decreases in
NaCl concentration. Both responses are reliable yet transient, indicating that
ASE neurons report changes in concentration rather than absolute levels.
Recordings from synaptic and sensory transduction mutants show that the ON-OFF
asymmetry is the result of intrinsic differences between ASE neurons. Unilateral 
activation experiments indicate that the asymmetry extends to the level of
behavioural output: ASEL lengthens bouts of forward locomotion (runs) whereas
ASER promotes direction changes (turns). Notably, the input and output
asymmetries of ASE neurons are precisely those of a simple yet novel neuronal
motif for computing the time derivative of chemosensory information, which is the
fundamental computation of C. elegans chemotaxis. Evidence for ON and OFF cells
in other chemosensory networks suggests that this motif may be common in animals 
that navigate by taste and smell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06927 
PMCID: PMC2984562
PMID: 18596810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):100-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06922.

Extinction risk depends strongly on factors contributing to stochasticity.

Melbourne BA(1), Hastings A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA. brett.melbourne@colorado.edu

Extinction risk in natural populations depends on stochastic factors that affect 
individuals, and is estimated by incorporating such factors into stochastic
models. Stochasticity can be divided into four categories, which include the
probabilistic nature of birth and death at the level of individuals (demographic 
stochasticity), variation in population-level birth and death rates among times
or locations (environmental stochasticity), the sex of individuals and variation 
in vital rates among individuals within a population (demographic heterogeneity).
Mechanistic stochastic models that include all of these factors have not
previously been developed to examine their combined effects on extinction risk.
Here we derive a family of stochastic Ricker models using different combinations 
of all these stochastic factors, and show that extinction risk depends strongly
on the combination of factors that contribute to stochasticity. Furthermore, we
show that only with the full stochastic model can the relative importance of
environmental and demographic variability, and therefore extinction risk, be
correctly determined. Using the full model, we find that demographic sources of
stochasticity are the prominent cause of variability in a laboratory population
of Tribolium castaneum (red flour beetle), whereas using only the standard
simpler models would lead to the erroneous conclusion that environmental
variability dominates. Our results demonstrate that current estimates of
extinction risk for natural populations could be greatly underestimated because
variability has been mistakenly attributed to the environment rather than the
demographic factors described here that entail much higher extinction risk for
the same variability level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06922 
PMID: 18596809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07102.

A light carbon reservoir recorded in zircon-hosted diamond from the Jack Hills.

Nemchin AA(1), Whitehouse MJ, Menneken M, Geisler T, Pidgeon RT, Wilde SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Geology, Western Australian School of Mines, Curtin
University of Technology, Bentley, Western Australia 6102, Australia.
nemchina@kalg.curtin.edu.au

The recent discovery of diamond-graphite inclusions in the Earth's oldest zircon 
grains (formed up to 4,252 Myr ago) from the Jack Hills metasediments in Western 
Australia provides a unique opportunity to investigate Earth's earliest known
carbon reservoir. Here we report ion microprobe analyses of the carbon isotope
composition of these diamond-graphite inclusions. The observed delta(13)C(PDB)
values (expressed using the PeeDee Belemnite standard) range between -5 per mil
and -58 per mil with a median of -31 per mil. This extends beyond typical mantle 
values of around -6 per mil to values observed in metamorphic and some eclogitic 
diamonds that are interpreted to reflect deep subduction of low-delta(13)C(PDB)
biogenic surface carbon. Low delta(13)C(PDB) values may also be produced by
inorganic chemical reactions, and therefore are not unambiguous evidence for life
on Earth as early as 4,250 Myr ago. Regardless, our results suggest that a
low-delta(13)C(PDB) reservoir may have existed on the early Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07102 
PMID: 18596808 


492. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):88-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07079.

Vibrational excitation through tug-of-war inelastic collisions.

Greaves SJ(1), Wrede E, Goldberg NT, Zhang J, Miller DJ, Zare RN.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Chemistry, Spectroscopy and Dynamics Group, School of Chemistry,
University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1TS, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):43-5.

Vibrationally inelastic scattering is a fundamental collision process that
converts some of the kinetic energy of the colliding partners into vibrational
excitation(,). The conventional wisdom is that collisions with high impact
parameters (where the partners only 'graze' each other) are forward scattered and
essentially elastic, whereas collisions with low impact parameters transfer a
large amount of energy into vibrations and are mainly back scattered. Here we
report experimental observations of exactly the opposite behaviour for the
simplest and most studied of all neutral-neutral collisions: we find that the
inelastic scattering process H + D(2)(v = 0, j = 0, 2) --> H + D(2)(v' = 3, j' = 
0, 2, 4, 6, 8) leads dominantly to forward scattering (v and j respectively refer
to the vibrational and rotational quantum numbers of the D(2) molecule).
Quasi-classical trajectory calculations show that the vibrational excitation is
caused by extension, not compression, of the D-D bond through interaction with
the passing H atom. However, the H-D interaction never becomes strong enough for 
capture of the H atom before it departs with diminished kinetic energy; that is, 
the inelastic scattering process is essentially a frustrated reaction in which
the collision typically excites the outward-going half of the H-D-D symmetric
stretch before the H-D(2) complex dissociates. We suggest that this 'tug of war' 
between H and D(2) is a new mechanism for vibrational excitation that should play
a role in all neutral-neutral collisions where strong attraction can develop
between the collision partners.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07079 
PMID: 18596807 


493. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07026.

Spatial cooperativity in soft glassy flows.

Goyon J(1), Colin A, Ovarlez G, Ajdari A, Bocquet L.

Author information: 
(1)LOF, Université Bordeaux 1, UMR CNRS-Rhodia-Bordeaux 1 5258, 33608 Pessac
cedex, France.

Amorphous glassy materials of diverse nature-concentrated emulsions, granular
materials, pastes, molecular glasses-display complex flow properties,
intermediate between solid and liquid, which are at the root of their use in many
applications. A general feature of such systems, well documented yet not really
understood, is the strongly nonlinear nature of the flow rule relating stresses
and strain rates. Here we use a microfluidic velocimetry technique to
characterize the flow of thin layers of concentrated emulsions, confined in gaps 
of different thicknesses by surfaces of different roughnesses. We find evidence
for finite-size effects in the flow behaviour and the absence of an intrinsic
local flow rule. In contrast to the classical nonlinearities of the rheological
behaviour of amorphous materials, we show that a rather simple non-local flow
rule can account for all the velocity profiles. This non-locality of the dynamics
is quantified by a length, characteristic of cooperativity within the flow at
these scales, that is unobservable in the liquid state (lower emulsion
concentrations) and that increases with concentration in the jammed state. Beyond
its practical importance for applications involving thin layers (for example,
coatings), these non-locality and cooperativity effects have parallels in the
behaviour of other glassy, jammed and granular systems, suggesting a possible
fundamental universality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07026 
PMID: 18596806 


494. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):81-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07068.

Domination of heliosheath pressure by shock-accelerated pickup ions from
observations of neutral atoms.

Wang L(1), Lin RP, Larson DE, Luhmann JG.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720-7300,
USA. windsound@ssl.berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):38-9.

The solar wind blows an immense magnetic bubble, the heliosphere, in the local
interstellar medium (mostly neutral gas) flowing by the Sun. Recent measurements 
by Voyager 2 across the termination shock, where the solar wind is slowed to
subsonic speeds before entering the heliosheath, found that the shocked solar
wind plasma contains only approximately 20 per cent of the energy released by the
termination shock, whereas energetic particles above approximately 28 keV contain
only approximately 10 per cent; approximately 70 per cent of the energy is
unaccounted for, leading to speculation that the unmeasured pickup ions or
energetic particles below 28 keV contain the missing energy. Here we report the
detection and mapping of heliosheath energetic ( approximately 4-20 keV) neutral 
atoms produced by charge exchange of suprathermal ions with interstellar neutral 
atoms. The energetic neutral atoms come from a source approximately 60 degrees
wide in longitude straddling the direction of the local interstellar medium.
Their energy spectra resemble those of solar wind pickup ions, but with a knee at
approximately 11 keV instead of approximately 4 keV, indicating that their parent
ions are pickup ions energized by the termination shock. These
termination-shock-energized pickup ions contain the missing approximately 70 per 
cent of the energy dissipated in the termination shock, and they dominate the
pressure in the heliosheath.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07068 
PMID: 18596805 


495. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):78-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07023.

Intense plasma waves at and near the solar wind termination shock.

Gurnett DA(1), Kurth WS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa
52242, USA. donald-gurnett@uiowa.edu

Plasma waves are a characteristic feature of shocks in plasmas, and are produced 
by non-thermal particle distributions that develop in the shock transition layer.
The electric fields of these waves have a key role in dissipating energy in the
shock and driving the particle distributions back towards thermal equilibrium.
Here we report the detection of intense plasma-wave electric fields at the solar 
wind termination shock. The observations were obtained from the plasma-wave
instrument on the Voyager 2 spacecraft. The first evidence of the approach to the
shock was the detection of upstream electron plasma oscillations on 1 August 2007
at a heliocentric radial distance of 83.4 au (1 au is the Earth-Sun distance).
These narrowband oscillations continued intermittently for about a month until,
starting on 31 August 2007 and ending on 1 September 2007, a series of intense
bursts of broadband electrostatic waves signalled a series of crossings of the
termination shock at a heliocentric radial distance of 83.7 au. The spectrum of
these waves is quantitatively similar to those observed at bow shocks upstream of
Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07023 
PMID: 18596804 


496. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):75-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07029.

Magnetic fields at the solar wind termination shock.

Burlaga LF(1), Ness NF, Acuña MH, Lepping RP, Connerney JE, Richardson JD.

Author information: 
(1)NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
Leonard.F.Burlaga@nasa.gov

A transition between the supersonic solar wind and the subsonic heliosheath was
observed by Voyager 1, but the expected termination shock was not seen owing to a
gap in the telemetry. Here we report observations of the magnetic field structure
and dynamics of the termination shock, made by Voyager 2 on 31 August-1 September
2007 at a distance of 83.7 au from the Sun (1 au is the Earth-Sun distance). A
single crossing of the shock was expected, with a boundary that was stable on a
timescale of several days. But the data reveal a complex, rippled,
quasi-perpendicular supercritical magnetohydrodynamic shock of moderate strength 
undergoing reformation on a scale of a few hours. The observed structure suggests
the importance of ionized interstellar atoms ('pickup protons') at the shock.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07029 
PMID: 18596803 


497. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):71-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07022.

An asymmetric solar wind termination shock.

Stone EC(1), Cummings AC, McDonald FB, Heikkila BC, Lal N, Webber WR.

Author information: 
(1)California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
ecs@srl.caltech.edu

Voyager 2 crossed the solar wind termination shock at 83.7 au in the southern
hemisphere, approximately 10 au closer to the Sun than found by Voyager 1 in the 
north. This asymmetry could indicate an asymmetric pressure from an interstellar 
magnetic field, from transient-induced shock motion, or from the solar wind
dynamic pressure. Here we report that the intensity of 4-5 MeV protons
accelerated by the shock near Voyager 2 was three times that observed
concurrently by Voyager 1, indicating differences in the shock at the two
locations. (Companion papers report on the plasma, magnetic field, plasma-wave
and lower energy particle observations at the shock.) Voyager 2 did not find the 
source of anomalous cosmic rays at the shock, suggesting that the source is
elsewhere on the shock or in the heliosheath. The small intensity gradient of
Galactic cosmic ray helium indicates that either the gradient is further out in
the heliosheath or the local interstellar Galactic cosmic ray intensity is lower 
than expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07022 
PMID: 18596802 


498. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):67-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07030.

Mediation of the solar wind termination shock by non-thermal ions.

Decker RB(1), Krimigis SM, Roelof EC, Hill ME, Armstrong TP, Gloeckler G,
Hamilton DC, Lanzerotti LJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, Maryland
20723, USA. robert.decker@jhuapl.edu

Broad regions on both sides of the solar wind termination shock are populated by 
high intensities of non-thermal ions and electrons. The pre-shock particles in
the solar wind have been measured by the spacecraft Voyager 1 (refs 1-5) and
Voyager 2 (refs 3, 6). The post-shock particles in the heliosheath have also been
measured by Voyager 1 (refs 3-5). It was not clear, however, what effect these
particles might have on the physics of the shock transition until Voyager 2
crossed the shock on 31 August-1 September 2007 (refs 7-9). Unlike Voyager 1,
Voyager 2 is making plasma measurements. Data from the plasma and magnetic field 
instruments on Voyager 2 indicate that non-thermal ion distributions probably
have key roles in mediating dynamical processes at the termination shock and in
the heliosheath. Here we report that intensities of low-energy ions measured by
Voyager 2 produce non-thermal partial ion pressures in the heliosheath that are
comparable to (or exceed) both the thermal plasma pressures and the scalar
magnetic field pressures. We conclude that these ions are the >0.028 MeV portion 
of the non-thermal ion distribution that determines the termination shock
structure and the acceleration of which extracts a large fraction of bulk-flow
kinetic energy from the incident solar wind.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07030 
PMID: 18596801 


499. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):63-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07024.

Cool heliosheath plasma and deceleration of the upstream solar wind at the
termination shock.

Richardson JD(1), Kasper JC, Wang C, Belcher JW, Lazarus AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, 37-655, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. jdr@space.mit.edu

The solar wind blows outward from the Sun and forms a bubble of solar material in
the interstellar medium. The termination shock occurs where the solar wind
changes from being supersonic (with respect to the surrounding interstellar
medium) to being subsonic. The shock was crossed by Voyager 1 at a heliocentric
radius of 94 au (1 au is the Earth-Sun distance) in December 2004 (refs 1-3). The
Voyager 2 plasma experiment observed a decrease in solar wind speed commencing on
about 9 June 2007, which culminated in several crossings of the termination shock
between 30 August and 1 September 2007 (refs 4-7). Since then, Voyager 2 has
remained in the heliosheath, the region of shocked solar wind. Here we report
observations of plasma at and near the termination shock and in the heliosheath. 
The heliosphere is asymmetric, pushed inward in the Voyager 2 direction relative 
to the Voyager 1 direction. The termination shock is a weak, quasi-perpendicular 
shock that heats the thermal plasma very little. An unexpected finding is that
the flow is still supersonic with respect to the thermal ions downstream of the
termination shock. Most of the solar wind energy is transferred to the pickup
ions or other energetic particles both upstream of and at the termination shock.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07024 
PMID: 18596800 


500. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07060. Epub 2008 Jun 22.

Epicardial progenitors contribute to the cardiomyocyte lineage in the developing 
heart.

Zhou B(1), Ma Q, Rajagopal S, Wu SM, Domian I, Rivera-Feliciano J, Jiang D, von
Gise A, Ikeda S, Chien KR, Pu WT.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Stem Cell Institute and Department of Cardiology, Children's Hospital 
Boston, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The heart is formed from cardiogenic progenitors expressing the transcription
factors Nkx2-5 and Isl1 (refs 1 and 2). These multipotent progenitors give rise
to cardiomyocyte, smooth muscle and endothelial cells, the major lineages of the 
mature heart. Here we identify a novel cardiogenic precursor marked by expression
of the transcription factor Wt1 and located within the epicardium-an epithelial
sheet overlying the heart. During normal murine heart development, a subset of
these Wt1(+) precursors differentiated into fully functional cardiomyocytes.
Wt1(+) proepicardial cells arose from progenitors that express Nkx2-5 and Isl1,
suggesting that they share a developmental origin with multipotent Nkx2-5(+) and 
Isl1(+) progenitors. These results identify Wt1(+) epicardial cells as previously
unrecognized cardiomyocyte progenitors, and lay the foundation for future efforts
to harness the cardiogenic potential of these progenitors for cardiac
regeneration and repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07060 
PMCID: PMC2574791
PMID: 18568026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):56-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07086. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

SMAD proteins control DROSHA-mediated microRNA maturation.

Davis BN(1), Hilyard AC, Lagna G, Hata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston,
Massachusetts 02111, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that participate in the
spatiotemporal regulation of messenger RNA and protein synthesis. Aberrant miRNA 
expression leads to developmental abnormalities and diseases, such as
cardiovascular disorders and cancer; however, the stimuli and processes
regulating miRNA biogenesis are largely unknown. The transforming growth factor
beta (TGF-beta) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family of growth factors
orchestrates fundamental biological processes in development and in the
homeostasis of adult tissues, including the vasculature. Here we show that
induction of a contractile phenotype in human vascular smooth muscle cells by
TGF-beta and BMPs is mediated by miR-21. miR-21 downregulates PDCD4 (programmed
cell death 4), which in turn acts as a negative regulator of smooth muscle
contractile genes. Surprisingly, TGF-beta and BMP signalling promotes a rapid
increase in expression of mature miR-21 through a post-transcriptional step,
promoting the processing of primary transcripts of miR-21 (pri-miR-21) into
precursor miR-21 (pre-miR-21) by the DROSHA (also known as RNASEN) complex.
TGF-beta- and BMP-specific SMAD signal transducers are recruited to pri-miR-21 in
a complex with the RNA helicase p68 (also known as DDX5), a component of the
DROSHA microprocessor complex. The shared cofactor SMAD4 is not required for this
process. Thus, regulation of miRNA biogenesis by ligand-specific SMAD proteins is
critical for control of the vascular smooth muscle cell phenotype and potentially
for SMAD4-independent responses mediated by the TGF-beta and BMP signalling
pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07086 
PMCID: PMC2653422
PMID: 18548003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07051. Epub 2008 Jun 8.

Volcanic carbon dioxide vents show ecosystem effects of ocean acidification.

Hall-Spencer JM(1), Rodolfo-Metalpa R, Martin S, Ransome E, Fine M, Turner SM,
Rowley SJ, Tedesco D, Buia MC.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Institute, Marine Biology and Ecology Research Centre, University of
Plymouth, Plymouth PL4 8AA, UK. jhall-spencer@plymouth.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):46-7.

The atmospheric partial pressure of carbon dioxide (p(CO(2))) will almost
certainly be double that of pre-industrial levels by 2100 and will be
considerably higher than at any time during the past few million years. The
oceans are a principal sink for anthropogenic CO(2) where it is estimated to have
caused a 30% increase in the concentration of H(+) in ocean surface waters since 
the early 1900s and may lead to a drop in seawater pH of up to 0.5 units by 2100 
(refs 2, 3). Our understanding of how increased ocean acidity may affect marine
ecosystems is at present very limited as almost all studies have been in vitro,
short-term, rapid perturbation experiments on isolated elements of the ecosystem.
Here we show the effects of acidification on benthic ecosystems at shallow
coastal sites where volcanic CO(2) vents lower the pH of the water column. Along 
gradients of normal pH (8.1-8.2) to lowered pH (mean 7.8-7.9, minimum 7.4-7.5),
typical rocky shore communities with abundant calcareous organisms shifted to
communities lacking scleractinian corals with significant reductions in sea
urchin and coralline algal abundance. To our knowledge, this is the first
ecosystem-scale validation of predictions that these important groups of
organisms are susceptible to elevated amounts of p(CO(2)). Sea-grass production
was highest in an area at mean pH 7.6 (1,827 (mu)atm p(CO(2))) where coralline
algal biomass was significantly reduced and gastropod shells were dissolving due 
to periods of carbonate sub-saturation. The species populating the vent sites
comprise a suite of organisms that are resilient to naturally high concentrations
of p(CO(2)) and indicate that ocean acidification may benefit highly invasive
non-native algal species. Our results provide the first in situ insights into how
shallow water marine communities might change when susceptible organisms are
removed owing to ocean acidification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07051 
PMID: 18536730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):122-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07018. Epub 2008 Jun 4.

Template-directed synthesis of a genetic polymer in a model protocell.

Mansy SS(1), Schrum JP, Krishnamurthy M, Tobé S, Treco DA, Szostak JW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biology and the
Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):37-8.

Contemporary phospholipid-based cell membranes are formidable barriers to the
uptake of polar and charged molecules ranging from metal ions to complex
nutrients. Modern cells therefore require sophisticated protein channels and
pumps to mediate the exchange of molecules with their environment. The strong
barrier function of membranes has made it difficult to understand the origin of
cellular life and has been thought to preclude a heterotrophic lifestyle for
primitive cells. Although nucleotides can cross dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine
membranes through defects formed at the gel-to-liquid transition temperature,
phospholipid membranes lack the dynamic properties required for membrane growth. 
Fatty acids and their corresponding alcohols and glycerol monoesters are
attractive candidates for the components of protocell membranes because they are 
simple amphiphiles that form bilayer membrane vesicles that retain encapsulated
oligonucleotides and are capable of growth and division. Here we show that such
membranes allow the passage of charged molecules such as nucleotides, so that
activated nucleotides added to the outside of a model protocell spontaneously
cross the membrane and take part in efficient template copying in the protocell
interior. The permeability properties of prebiotically plausible membranes
suggest that primitive protocells could have acquired complex nutrients from
their environment in the absence of any macromolecular transport machinery; that 
is, they could have been obligate heterotrophs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07018 
PMCID: PMC2743009
PMID: 18528332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):126-30. doi: 10.1038/nature06992. Epub 2008 May 28.

Induced ncRNAs allosterically modify RNA-binding proteins in cis to inhibit
transcription.

Wang X(1), Arai S, Song X, Reichart D, Du K, Pascual G, Tempst P, Rosenfeld MG,
Glass CK, Kurokawa R.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

With the recent recognition of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) flanking many genes, a
central issue is to obtain a full understanding of their potential roles in
regulated gene transcription programmes, possibly through different mechanisms.
Here we show that an RNA-binding protein, TLS (for translocated in liposarcoma), 
serves as a key transcriptional regulatory sensor of DNA damage signals that, on 
the basis of its allosteric modulation by RNA, specifically binds to and inhibits
CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300 histone acetyltransferase activities on a
repressed gene target, cyclin D1 (CCND1) in human cell lines. Recruitment of TLS 
to the CCND1 promoter to cause gene-specific repression is directed by
single-stranded, low-copy-number ncRNA transcripts tethered to the 5' regulatory 
regions of CCND1 that are induced in response to DNA damage signals. Our data
suggest that signal-induced ncRNAs localized to regulatory regions of
transcription units can act cooperatively as selective ligands, recruiting and
modulating the activities of distinct classes of RNA-binding co-regulators in
response to specific signals, providing an unexpected ncRNA/RNA-binding
protein-based strategy to integrate transcriptional programmes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06992 
PMCID: PMC2823488
PMID: 18509338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):49-55. doi: 10.1038/nature07056. Epub 2008 May 28.

Dissecting direct reprogramming through integrative genomic analysis.

Mikkelsen TS(1), Hanna J, Zhang X, Ku M, Wernig M, Schorderet P, Bernstein BE,
Jaenisch R, Lander ES, Meissner A.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):794.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):45-6.

Somatic cells can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state through the ectopic
expression of defined transcription factors. Understanding the mechanism and
kinetics of this transformation may shed light on the nature of developmental
potency and suggest strategies with improved efficiency or safety. Here we report
an integrative genomic analysis of reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts and B
lymphocytes. Lineage-committed cells show a complex response to the ectopic
expression involving induction of genes downstream of individual reprogramming
factors. Fully reprogrammed cells show gene expression and epigenetic states that
are highly similar to embryonic stem cells. In contrast, stable partially
reprogrammed cell lines show reactivation of a distinctive subset of
stem-cell-related genes, incomplete repression of lineage-specifying
transcription factors, and DNA hypermethylation at pluripotency-related loci.
These observations suggest that some cells may become trapped in partially
reprogrammed states owing to incomplete repression of transcription factors, and 
that DNA de-methylation is an inefficient step in the transition to pluripotency.
We demonstrate that RNA inhibition of transcription factors can facilitate
reprogramming, and that treatment with DNA methyltransferase inhibitors can
improve the overall efficiency of the reprogramming process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07056 
PMCID: PMC2754827
PMID: 18509334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature06995. Epub 2008 May 25.

Formation of accumbens GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors mediates incubation of
cocaine craving.

Conrad KL(1), Tseng KY, Uejima JL, Reimers JM, Heng LJ, Shaham Y, Marinelli M,
Wolf ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and
Science, 3333 Green Bay Road, North Chicago, Illinois 60064, USA.

Relapse to cocaine use after prolonged abstinence is an important clinical
problem. This relapse is often induced by exposure to cues associated with
cocaine use. To account for the persistent propensity for relapse, it has been
suggested that cue-induced cocaine craving increases over the first several weeks
of abstinence and remains high for extended periods. We and others identified an 
analogous phenomenon in rats that was termed 'incubation of cocaine craving':
time-dependent increases in cue-induced cocaine-seeking over the first months
after withdrawal from self-administered cocaine. Cocaine-seeking requires the
activation of glutamate projections that excite receptors for
alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) in the nucleus
accumbens. Here we show that the number of synaptic AMPA receptors in the
accumbens is increased after prolonged withdrawal from cocaine
self-administration by the addition of new AMPA receptors lacking glutamate
receptor 2 (GluR2). Furthermore, we show that these new receptors mediate the
incubation of cocaine craving. Our results indicate that GluR2-lacking AMPA
receptors could be a new target for drug development for the treatment of cocaine
addiction. We propose that after prolonged withdrawal from cocaine, increased
numbers of synaptic AMPA receptors combined with the higher conductance of
GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors causes increased reactivity of accumbens neurons to 
cocaine-related cues, leading to an intensification of drug craving and relapse.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06995 
PMCID: PMC2574981
PMID: 18500330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06969. Epub 2008 May 14.

A myocardial lineage derives from Tbx18 epicardial cells.

Cai CL(1), Martin JC, Sun Y, Cui L, Wang L, Ouyang K, Yang L, Bu L, Liang X,
Zhang X, Stallcup WB, Denton CP, McCulloch A, Chen J, Evans SM.

Author information: 
(1)Skaggs School of Pharmacy, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):E8-9; discussion E9-10.

Understanding the origins and roles of cardiac progenitor cells is important for 
elucidating the pathogenesis of congenital and acquired heart diseases. Moreover,
manipulation of cardiac myocyte progenitors has potential for cell-based repair
strategies for various myocardial disorders. Here we report the identification in
mouse of a previously unknown cardiac myocyte lineage that derives from the
proepicardial organ. These progenitor cells, which express the T-box
transcription factor Tbx18, migrate onto the outer cardiac surface to form the
epicardium, and then make a substantial contribution to myocytes in the
ventricular septum and the atrial and ventricular walls. Tbx18-expressing cardiac
progenitors also give rise to cardiac fibroblasts and coronary smooth muscle
cells. The pluripotency of Tbx18 proepicardial cells provides a theoretical
framework for applying these progenitors to effect cardiac repair and
regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06969 
PMCID: PMC5540369
PMID: 18480752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1236-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07075.

Explosive volcanism on the ultraslow-spreading Gakkel ridge, Arctic Ocean.

Sohn RA(1), Willis C, Humphris S, Shank TM, Singh H, Edmonds HN, Kunz C, Hedman
U, Helmke E, Jakuba M, Liljebladh B, Linder J, Murphy C, Nakamura K, Sato T,
Schlindwein V, Stranne C, Tausenfreund M, Upchurch L, Winsor P, Jakobsson M,
Soule A.

Author information: 
(1)Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
rsohn@whoi.edu

Roughly 60% of the Earth's outer surface is composed of oceanic crust formed by
volcanic processes at mid-ocean ridges. Although only a small fraction of this
vast volcanic terrain has been visually surveyed or sampled, the available
evidence suggests that explosive eruptions are rare on mid-ocean ridges,
particularly at depths below the critical point for seawater (3,000 m). A
pyroclastic deposit has never been observed on the sea floor below 3,000 m,
presumably because the volatile content of mid-ocean-ridge basalts is generally
too low to produce the gas fractions required for fragmenting a magma at such
high hydrostatic pressure. We employed new deep submergence technologies during
an International Polar Year expedition to the Gakkel ridge in the Arctic Basin at
85 degrees E, to acquire photographic and video images of 'zero-age' volcanic
terrain on this remote, ice-covered ridge. Here we present images revealing that 
the axial valley at 4,000 m water depth is blanketed with unconsolidated
pyroclastic deposits, including bubble wall fragments (limu o Pele), covering a
large (>10 km(2)) area. At least 13.5 wt% CO(2) is necessary to fragment magma at
these depths, which is about tenfold the highest values previously measured in a 
mid-ocean-ridge basalt. These observations raise important questions about the
accumulation and discharge of magmatic volatiles at ultraslow spreading rates on 
the Gakkel ridge and demonstrate that large-scale pyroclastic activity is
possible along even the deepest portions of the global mid-ocean ridge volcanic
system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07075 
PMID: 18580949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1232-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07035.

Extensive halogen-mediated ozone destruction over the tropical Atlantic Ocean.

Read KA(1), Mahajan AS, Carpenter LJ, Evans MJ, Faria BV, Heard DE, Hopkins JR,
Lee JD, Moller SJ, Lewis AC, Mendes L, McQuaid JB, Oetjen H, Saiz-Lopez A,
Pilling MJ, Plane JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1195-6.

Increasing tropospheric ozone levels over the past 150 years have led to a
significant climate perturbation; the prediction of future trends in tropospheric
ozone will require a full understanding of both its precursor emissions and its
destruction processes. A large proportion of tropospheric ozone loss occurs in
the tropical marine boundary layer and is thought to be driven primarily by high 
ozone photolysis rates in the presence of high concentrations of water vapour. A 
further reduction in the tropospheric ozone burden through bromine and iodine
emitted from open-ocean marine sources has been postulated by numerical models,
but thus far has not been verified by observations. Here we report eight months
of spectroscopic measurements at the Cape Verde Observatory indicative of the
ubiquitous daytime presence of bromine monoxide and iodine monoxide in the
tropical marine boundary layer. A year-round data set of co-located in situ
surface trace gas measurements made in conjunction with low-level aircraft
observations shows that the mean daily observed ozone loss is approximately 50
per cent greater than that simulated by a global chemistry model using a
classical photochemistry scheme that excludes halogen chemistry. We perform box
model calculations that indicate that the observed halogen concentrations induce 
the extra ozone loss required for the models to match observations. Our results
show that halogen chemistry has a significant and extensive influence on
photochemical ozone loss in the tropical Atlantic Ocean boundary layer. The
omission of halogen sources and their chemistry in atmospheric models may lead to
significant errors in calculations of global ozone budgets, tropospheric
oxidizing capacity and methane oxidation rates, both historically and in the
future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07035 
PMID: 18580948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1228-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07046.

The total synthesis of (-)-cyanthiwigin F by means of double catalytic
enantioselective alkylation.

Enquist JA Jr(1), Stoltz BM.

Author information: 
(1)The Arnold and Mabel Beckman Laboratories of Chemical Synthesis, Division of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, MC164-30, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Double catalytic enantioselective transformations are powerful synthetic methods 
that can facilitate the construction of stereochemically complex molecules in a
single operation. In addition to generating two or more stereocentres in a single
reaction, multiple asymmetric reactions also impart increased enantiomeric excess
to the final product in comparison with the analogous single transformation.
Furthermore, multiple asymmetric operations have the potential to independently
construct several stereocentres at remote points within the same molecular
scaffold, rather than relying on pre-existing chiral centres that are proximal to
the reactive site. Despite the inherent benefits of multiple catalytic
enantioselective reactions, their application to natural product total synthesis 
remains largely underutilized. Here we report the use of a double stereoablative 
enantioselective alkylation reaction in a concise synthesis of the marine
diterpenoid (-)-cyanthiwigin F (ref. 8). By employing a technique for
independent, selective formation of two stereocentres in a single
stereoconvergent operation, we demonstrate that a complicated mixture of racemic 
and meso diastereomers may be smoothly converted to a synthetically useful
intermediate with exceptional enantiomeric excess. The stereochemical information
generated by means of this catalytic transformation facilitates the easy and
rapid completion of the total synthesis of this marine natural product.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07046 
PMCID: PMC2474750
PMID: 18580947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1220-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07025.

Implications of an impact origin for the martian hemispheric dichotomy.

Nimmo F(1), Hart SD, Korycansky DG, Agnor CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Santa
Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA. fnimmo@es.ucsc.edu

The observation that one hemisphere of Mars is lower and has a thinner crust than
the other (the 'martian hemispheric dichotomy') has been a puzzle for 30 years.
The dichotomy may have arisen as a result of internal mechanisms such as
convection. Alternatively, it may have been caused by one or several giant
impacts, but quantitative tests of the impact hypothesis have not been published.
Here we use a high-resolution, two-dimensional, axially symmetric hydrocode to
model vertical impacts over a range of parameters appropriate to early Mars. We
propose that the impact model, in addition to excavating a crustal cavity of the 
correct size, explains two other observations. First, crustal disruption at the
impact antipode is probably responsible for the observed antipodal decline in
magnetic field strength. Second, the impact-generated melt forming the northern
lowlands crust is predicted to derive from a deep, depleted mantle source. This
prediction is consistent with characteristics of martian shergottite meteorites
and suggests a dichotomy formation time approximately 100 Myr after martian
accretion, comparable to that of the Moon-forming impact on Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07025 
PMID: 18580946 


512. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07070.

Mega-impact formation of the Mars hemispheric dichotomy.

Marinova MM(1), Aharonson O, Asphaug E.

Author information: 
(1)California Institute of Technology, Division of Geological and Planetary
Sciences, MC 150-21, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. mmm@caltech.edu

The Mars hemispheric dichotomy is expressed as a dramatic difference in
elevation, crustal thickness and crater density between the southern highlands
and northern lowlands (which cover approximately 42% of the surface). Despite the
prominence of the dichotomy, its origin has remained enigmatic and models for its
formation largely untested. Endogenic degree-1 convection models with north-south
asymmetry are incomplete in that they are restricted to simulating only mantle
dynamics and they neglect crustal evolution, whereas exogenic multiple impact
events are statistically unlikely to concentrate in one hemisphere. A single
mega-impact of the requisite size has not previously been modelled. However, it
has been hypothesized that such an event could obliterate the evidence of its
occurrence by completely covering the surface with melt or catastrophically
disrupting the planet. Here we present a set of single-impact initial conditions 
by which a large impactor can produce features consistent with the observed
dichotomy's crustal structure and persistence. Using three-dimensional
hydrodynamic simulations, large variations are predicted in post-impact states
depending on impact energy, velocity and, importantly, impact angle, with trends 
more pronounced or unseen in commonly studied smaller impacts. For impact
energies of approximately (3-6) x 10(29) J, at low impact velocities (6-10 km
s(-1)) and oblique impact angles (30-60 degrees ), the resulting crustal removal 
boundary is similar in size and ellipticity to the observed characteristics of
the lowlands basin. Under these conditions, the melt distribution is largely
contained within the area of impact and thus does not erase the evidence of the
impact's occurrence. The antiquity of the dichotomy is consistent with the
contemporaneous presence of impactors of diameter 1,600-2,700 km in Mars-crossing
orbits, and the impact angle is consistent with the expected distribution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07070 
PMID: 18580945 


513. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07011.

The Borealis basin and the origin of the martian crustal dichotomy.

Andrews-Hanna JC(1), Zuber MT, Banerdt WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. jhanna@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1191-2.

The most prominent feature on the surface of Mars is the near-hemispheric
dichotomy between the southern highlands and northern lowlands. The root of this 
dichotomy is a change in crustal thickness along an apparently irregular
boundary, which can be traced around the planet, except where it is presumably
buried beneath the Tharsis volcanic rise. The isostatic compensation of these
distinct provinces and the ancient population of impact craters buried beneath
the young lowlands surface suggest that the dichotomy is one of the most ancient 
features on the planet. However, the origin of this dichotomy has remained
uncertain, with little evidence to distinguish between the suggested causes: a
giant impact or mantle convection/overturn. Here we use the gravity and
topography of Mars to constrain the location of the dichotomy boundary beneath
Tharsis, taking advantage of the different modes of compensation for Tharsis and 
the dichotomy to separate their effects. We find that the dichotomy boundary
along its entire path around the planet is accurately fitted by an ellipse
measuring approximately 10,600 by 8,500 km, centred at 67 degrees N, 208 degrees 
E. We suggest that the elliptical nature of the crustal dichotomy is most simply 
explained by a giant impact, representing the largest such structure thus far
identified in the Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07011 
PMID: 18580944 


514. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1205-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07059.

Scaling of the BMP activation gradient in Xenopus embryos.

Ben-Zvi D(1), Shilo BZ, Fainsod A, Barkai N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):E1; discussion E2.

In groundbreaking experiments, Hans Spemann demonstrated that the dorsal part of 
the amphibian embryo can generate a well-proportioned tadpole, and that a small
group of dorsal cells, the 'organizer', can induce a complete and
well-proportioned twinned axis when transplanted into a host embryo. Key to
organizer function is the localized secretion of inhibitors of bone morphogenetic
protein (BMP), which defines a graded BMP activation profile. Although the
central proteins involved in shaping this gradient are well characterized, their 
integrated function, and in particular how pattern scales with size, is not
understood. Here we present evidence that in Xenopus, the BMP activity gradient
is defined by a 'shuttling-based' mechanism, whereby the BMP ligands are
translocated ventrally through their association with the BMP inhibitor Chordin. 
This shuttling, with feedback repression of the BMP ligand Admp, offers a
quantitative explanation to Spemann's observations, and accounts naturally for
the scaling of embryo pattern with its size.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07059 
PMID: 18580943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1199-204. doi: 10.1038/nature06991.

Ventastega curonica and the origin of tetrapod morphology.

Ahlberg PE(1), Clack JA, Luksevics E, Blom H, Zupiņs I.

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Evolutionary Organismal Biology, Department of Physiology and
Developmental Biology, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18A, 752 36 Uppsala,
Sweden. per.ahlberg@ebc.uu.se

The gap in our understanding of the evolutionary transition from fish to tetrapod
is beginning to close thanks to the discovery of new intermediate forms such as
Tiktaalik roseae. Here we narrow it further by presenting the skull,
exceptionally preserved braincase, shoulder girdle and partial pelvis of
Ventastega curonica from the Late Devonian of Latvia, a transitional intermediate
form between the 'elpistostegids' Panderichthys and Tiktaalik and the Devonian
tetrapods (limbed vertebrates) Acanthostega and Ichthyostega. Ventastega is the
most primitive Devonian tetrapod represented by extensive remains, and casts
light on a part of the phylogeny otherwise only represented by fragmentary taxa: 
it illuminates the origin of principal tetrapod structures and the extent of
morphological diversity among the transitional forms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06991 
PMID: 18580942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1262-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06942. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

Assembly reflects evolution of protein complexes.

Levy ED(1), Boeri Erba E, Robinson CV, Teichmann SA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QH, UK.
homomers@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

A homomer is formed by self-interacting copies of a protein unit. This is
functionally important, as in allostery, and structurally crucial because
mis-assembly of homomers is implicated in disease. Homomers are widespread, with 
50-70% of proteins with a known quaternary state assembling into such structures.
Despite their prevalence, their role in the evolution of cellular machinery and
the potential for their use in the design of new molecular machines, little is
known about the mechanisms that drive formation of homomers at the level of
evolution and assembly in the cell. Here we present an analysis of over 5,000
unique atomic structures and show that the quaternary structure of homomers is
conserved in over 70% of protein pairs sharing as little as 30% sequence
identity. Where quaternary structure is not conserved among the members of a
protein family, a detailed investigation revealed well-defined evolutionary
pathways by which proteins transit between different quaternary structure types. 
Furthermore, we show by perturbing subunit interfaces within complexes and by
mass spectrometry analysis, that the (dis)assembly pathway mimics the
evolutionary pathway. These data represent a molecular analogy to Haeckel's
evolutionary paradigm of embryonic development, where an intermediate in the
assembly of a complex represents a form that appeared in its own evolutionary
history. Our model of self-assembly allows reliable prediction of evolution and
assembly of a complex solely from its crystal structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06942 
PMCID: PMC2658002
PMID: 18563089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1224-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07081. Epub 2008 Jun 4.

A BCS-like gap in the superconductor SmFeAsO0.85F0.15.

Chen TY(1), Tesanovic Z, Liu RH, Chen XH, Chien CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21218, USA.

Since the discovery of superconductivity in the high-transition-temperature
(high-T(c)) copper oxides two decades ago, it has been firmly established that
the CuO(2) plane is essential for superconductivity and gives rise to a host of
other very unusual properties. A new family of superconductors with the general
composition of LaFeAsO(1-x)F(x) has recently been discovered and the conspicuous 
lack of the CuO(2) planes raises the tantalizing question of a different pairing 
mechanism in these oxypnictides. The superconducting gap (its magnitude,
structure, and temperature dependence) is intimately related to pairing. Here we 
report the observation of a single gap in the superconductor SmFeAsO(0.85)F(0.15)
with T(c) = 42 K as measured by Andreev spectroscopy. The gap value of 2Delta =
13.34 +/- 0.3 meV gives 2Delta/k(B)T(c) = 3.68 (where k(B) is the Boltzmann
constant), close to the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) prediction of 3.53. The
gap decreases with temperature and vanishes at T(c) in a manner consistent with
the BCS prediction, but dramatically different from that of the pseudogap
behaviour in the copper oxide superconductors. Our results clearly indicate a
nodeless gap order parameter, which is nearly isotropic in size across different 
sections of the Fermi surface, and are not compatible with models involving
antiferromagnetic fluctuations, strong correlations, the t-J model, and the like,
originally designed for the high-T(c) copper oxides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07081 
PMID: 18528330 


518. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1244-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07003. Epub 2008 May 28.

Analysis of a spatial orientation memory in Drosophila.

Neuser K(1), Triphan T, Mronz M, Poeck B, Strauss R.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Genetik und Neurobiologie, Biozentrum, Universität Würzburg, Am 
Hubland, D-97074 Würzburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1192-4.

Flexible goal-driven orientation requires that the position of a target be
stored, especially in case the target moves out of sight. The capability to
retain, recall and integrate such positional information into guiding behaviour
has been summarized under the term spatial working memory. This kind of memory
contains specific details of the presence that are not necessarily part of a
long-term memory. Neurophysiological studies in primates indicate that sustained 
activity of neurons encodes the sensory information even though the object is no 
longer present. Furthermore they suggest that dopamine transmits the respective
input to the prefrontal cortex, and simultaneous suppression by GABA spatially
restricts this neuronal activity. Here we show that Drosophila melanogaster
possesses a similar spatial memory during locomotion. Using a new detour setup,
we show that flies can remember the position of an object for several seconds
after it has been removed from their environment. In this setup, flies are
temporarily lured away from the direction towards their hidden target, yet they
are thereafter able to aim for their former target. Furthermore, we find that the
GABAergic (stainable with antibodies against GABA) ring neurons of the ellipsoid 
body in the central brain are necessary and their plasticity is sufficient for a 
functional spatial orientation memory in flies. We also find that the protein
kinase S6KII (ignorant) is required in a distinct subset of ring neurons to
display this memory. Conditional expression of S6KII in these neurons only in
adults can restore the loss of the orientation memory of the ignorant mutant. The
S6KII signalling pathway therefore seems to be acutely required in the ring
neurons for spatial orientation memory in flies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07003 
PMID: 18509336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1266-70. doi: 10.1038/nature06977. Epub 2008 May
25.

Modest stabilization by most hydrogen-bonded side-chain interactions in membrane 
proteins.

Joh NH(1), Min A, Faham S, Whitelegge JP, Yang D, Woods VL, Bowie JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, UCLA-DOE Center for Genomics and
Proteomics, Molecular Biology Institute, USA.

Understanding the energetics of molecular interactions is fundamental to all of
the central quests of structural biology including structure prediction and
design, mapping evolutionary pathways, learning how mutations cause disease, drug
design, and relating structure to function. Hydrogen-bonding is widely regarded
as an important force in a membrane environment because of the low dielectric
constant of membranes and a lack of competition from water. Indeed, polar residue
substitutions are the most common disease-causing mutations in membrane proteins.
Because of limited structural information and technical challenges, however,
there have been few quantitative tests of hydrogen-bond strength in the context
of large membrane proteins. Here we show, by using a double-mutant cycle
analysis, that the average contribution of eight interhelical side-chain
hydrogen-bonding interactions throughout bacteriorhodopsin is only 0.6 kcal
mol(-1). In agreement with these experiments, we find that 4% of polar atoms in
the non-polar core regions of membrane proteins have no hydrogen-bond partner and
the lengths of buried hydrogen bonds in soluble proteins and membrane protein
transmembrane regions are statistically identical. Our results indicate that most
hydrogen-bond interactions in membrane proteins are only modestly stabilizing.
Weak hydrogen-bonding should be reflected in considerations of membrane protein
folding, dynamics, design, evolution and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06977 
PMCID: PMC2734483
PMID: 18500332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1271-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06978. Epub 2008 May 25.

Structural basis for EGFR ligand sequestration by Argos.

Klein DE(1), Stayrook SE, Shi F, Narayan K, Lemmon MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania School
of Medicine, 809C Stellar-Chance Laboratories, 422 Curie Boulevard, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104-6059, USA.

Members of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or ErbB/HER family and
their activating ligands are essential regulators of diverse developmental
processes. Inappropriate activation of these receptors is a key feature of many
human cancers, and its reversal is an important clinical goal. A natural secreted
antagonist of EGFR signalling, called Argos, was identified in Drosophila. We
showed previously that Argos functions by directly binding (and sequestering)
growth factor ligands that activate EGFR. Here we describe the 1.6-A resolution
crystal structure of Argos bound to an EGFR ligand. Contrary to expectations,
Argos contains no EGF-like domain. Instead, a trio of closely related domains
(resembling a three-finger toxin fold) form a clamp-like structure around the
bound EGF ligand. Although structurally unrelated to the receptor, Argos mimics
EGFR by using a bipartite binding surface to entrap EGF. The individual Argos
domains share unexpected structural similarities with the extracellular
ligand-binding regions of transforming growth factor-beta family receptors. The
three-domain clamp of Argos also resembles the urokinase-type plasminogen
activator (uPA) receptor, which uses a similar mechanism to engulf the EGF-like
module of uPA. Our results indicate that undiscovered mammalian counterparts of
Argos may exist among other poorly characterized structural homologues. In
addition, the structures presented here define requirements for the design of
artificial EGF-sequestering proteins that would be valuable anti-cancer
therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06978 
PMCID: PMC2526102
PMID: 18500331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1276-80. doi: 10.1038/nature06974. Epub 2008 May
21.

Translation factors promote the formation of two states of the closed-loop mRNP.

Amrani N(1), Ghosh S, Mangus DA, Jacobson A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, University of Massachusetts
Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655-0122, USA.

Efficient translation initiation and optimal stability of most eukaryotic
messenger RNAs depends on the formation of a closed-loop structure and the
resulting synergistic interplay between the 5' m(7)G cap and the 3' poly(A) tail.
Evidence of eIF4G and Pab1 interaction supports the notion of a closed-loop mRNP,
but the mechanistic events that lead to its formation and maintenance are still
unknown. Here we use toeprinting and polysome profiling assays to delineate
ribosome positioning at initiator AUG codons and ribosome-mRNA association,
respectively, and find that two distinct stable (resistant to cap analogue)
closed-loop structures are formed during initiation in yeast cell-free extracts. 
The integrity of both forms requires the mRNA cap and poly(A) tail, as well as
eIF4E, eIF4G, Pab1 and eIF3, and is dependent on the length of both the mRNA and 
the poly(A) tail. Formation of the first structure requires the 48S ribosomal
complex, whereas the second requires an 80S ribosome and the termination factors 
eRF3/Sup35 and eRF1/Sup45. The involvement of the termination factors is
independent of a termination event.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06974 
PMCID: PMC2587346
PMID: 18496529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1239-43. doi: 10.1038/nature07002. Epub 2008 May
18.

Dynamic repertoire of a eukaryotic transcriptome surveyed at single-nucleotide
resolution.

Wilhelm BT(1), Marguerat S, Watt S, Schubert F, Wood V, Goodhead I, Penkett CJ,
Rogers J, Bähler J.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Fission Yeast Functional Genomics Group, Wellcome Trust
Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1HH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1197-8.

Recent data from several organisms indicate that the transcribed portions of
genomes are larger and more complex than expected, and that many functional
properties of transcripts are based not on coding sequences but on regulatory
sequences in untranslated regions or non-coding RNAs. Alternative start and
polyadenylation sites and regulation of intron splicing add additional dimensions
to the rich transcriptional output. This transcriptional complexity has been
sampled mainly using hybridization-based methods under one or few experimental
conditions. Here we applied direct high-throughput sequencing of complementary
DNAs (RNA-Seq), supplemented with data from high-density tiling arrays, to
globally sample transcripts of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe,
independently from available gene annotations. We interrogated transcriptomes
under multiple conditions, including rapid proliferation, meiotic differentiation
and environmental stress, as well as in RNA processing mutants to reveal the
dynamic plasticity of the transcriptional landscape as a function of
environmental, developmental and genetic factors. High-throughput sequencing
proved to be a powerful and quantitative method to sample transcriptomes deeply
at maximal resolution. In contrast to hybridization, sequencing showed little, if
any, background noise and was sensitive enough to detect widespread transcription
in >90% of the genome, including traces of RNAs that were not robustly
transcribed or rapidly degraded. The combined sequencing and strand-specific
array data provide rich condition-specific information on novel, mostly
non-coding transcripts, untranslated regions and gene structures, thus improving 
the existing genome annotation. Sequence reads spanning exon-exon or exon-intron 
junctions give unique insight into a surprising variability in splicing
efficiency across introns, genes and conditions. Splicing efficiency was largely 
coordinated with transcript levels, and increased transcription led to increased 
splicing in test genes. Hundreds of introns showed such regulated splicing during
cellular proliferation or differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07002 
PMID: 18488015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1258-61. doi: 10.1038/nature06956. Epub 2008 May
14.

Crystal structures of oseltamivir-resistant influenza virus neuraminidase
mutants.

Collins PJ(1), Haire LF, Lin YP, Liu J, Russell RJ, Walker PA, Skehel JJ, Martin 
SR, Hay AJ, Gamblin SJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC-National Institute for Medical Research, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

The potential impact of pandemic influenza makes effective measures to limit the 
spread and morbidity of virus infection a public health priority. Antiviral drugs
are seen as essential requirements for control of initial influenza outbreaks
caused by a new virus, and in pre-pandemic plans there is a heavy reliance on
drug stockpiles. The principal target for these drugs is a virus surface
glycoprotein, neuraminidase, which facilitates the release of nascent virus and
thus the spread of infection. Oseltamivir (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza) are
two currently used neuraminidase inhibitors that were developed using knowledge
of the enzyme structure. It has been proposed that the closer such inhibitors
resemble the natural substrate, the less likely they are to select drug-resistant
mutant viruses that retain viability. However, there have been reports of
drug-resistant mutant selection in vitro and from infected humans. We report here
the enzymatic properties and crystal structures of neuraminidase mutants from
H5N1-infected patients that explain the molecular basis of resistance. Our
results show that these mutants are resistant to oseltamivir but still strongly
inhibited by zanamivir owing to an altered hydrophobic pocket in the active site 
of the enzyme required for oseltamivir binding. Together with recent reports of
the viability and pathogenesis of H5N1 (ref. 7) and H1N1 (ref. 8) viruses with
neuraminidases carrying these mutations, our results indicate that it would be
prudent for pandemic stockpiles of oseltamivir to be augmented by additional
antiviral drugs, including zanamivir.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06956 
PMID: 18480754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1248-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06957. Epub 2008 May
14.

Hippocampus-independent phase precession in entorhinal grid cells.

Hafting T(1), Fyhn M, Bonnevie T, Moser MB, Moser EI.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for the Biology of Memory,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NO-7489 Trondheim, Norway.

Theta-phase precession in hippocampal place cells is one of the best-studied
experimental models of temporal coding in the brain. Theta-phase precession is a 
change in spike timing in which the place cell fires at progressively earlier
phases of the extracellular theta rhythm as the animal crosses the spatially
restricted firing field of the neuron. Within individual theta cycles, this phase
advance results in a compressed replication of the firing sequence of
consecutively activated place cells along the animal's trajectory, at a timescale
short enough to enable spike-time-dependent plasticity between neurons in
different parts of the sequence. The neuronal circuitry required for phase
precession has not yet been established. The fact that phase precession can be
seen in hippocampal output stuctures such as the prefrontal cortex suggests
either that efferent structures inherit the precession from the hippocampus or
that it is generated locally in those structures. Here we show that phase
precession is expressed independently of the hippocampus in spatially modulated
grid cells in layer II of medial entorhinal cortex, one synapse upstream of the
hippocampus. Phase precession is apparent in nearly all principal cells in layer 
II but only sparsely in layer III. The precession in layer II is not blocked by
inactivation of the hippocampus, suggesting that the phase advance is generated
in the grid cell network. The results point to possible mechanisms for grid
formation and raise the possibility that hippocampal phase precession is
inherited from entorhinal cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06957 
PMID: 18480753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1253-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06963. Epub 2008 May 11.

Rapid strengthening of thalamo-amygdala synapses mediates cue-reward learning.

Tye KM(1), Stuber GD, de Ridder B, Bonci A, Janak PH.

Author information: 
(1)Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center, University of California, San
Francisco, Emeryville, California 94608, USA.

What neural changes underlie individual differences in goal-directed learning?
The lateral amygdala (LA) is important for assigning emotional and motivational
significance to discrete environmental cues, including those that signal
rewarding events. Recognizing that a cue predicts a reward enhances an animal's
ability to acquire that reward; however, the cellular and synaptic mechanisms
that underlie cue-reward learning are unclear. Here we show that marked changes
in both cue-induced neuronal firing and input-specific synaptic strength occur
with the successful acquisition of a cue-reward association within a single
training session. We performed both in vivo and ex vivo electrophysiological
recordings in the LA of rats trained to self-administer sucrose. We observed that
reward-learning success increased in proportion to the number of amygdala neurons
that responded phasically to a reward-predictive cue. Furthermore, cue-reward
learning induced an AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole propionic
acid)-receptor-mediated increase in the strength of thalamic, but not cortical,
synapses in the LA that was apparent immediately after the first training
session. The level of learning attained by individual subjects was highly
correlated with the degree of synaptic strength enhancement. Importantly,
intra-LA NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate)-receptor blockade impaired reward-learning
performance and attenuated the associated increase in synaptic strength. These
findings provide evidence of a connection between LA synaptic plasticity and
cue-reward learning, potentially representing a key mechanism underlying
goal-directed behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06963 
PMCID: PMC2759353
PMID: 18469802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1090-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07080.

Improved estimates of upper-ocean warming and multi-decadal sea-level rise.

Domingues CM(1), Church JA, White NJ, Gleckler PJ, Wijffels SE, Barker PM, Dunn
JR.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Australian Weather and Climate Research, CSIRO Marine and
Atmospheric Research, GPO Box 1538, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia.
catia.domingues@csiro.au

Changes in the climate system's energy budget are predominantly revealed in ocean
temperatures and the associated thermal expansion contribution to sea-level rise.
Climate models, however, do not reproduce the large decadal variability in
globally averaged ocean heat content inferred from the sparse observational
database, even when volcanic and other variable climate forcings are included.
The sum of the observed contributions has also not adequately explained the
overall multi-decadal rise. Here we report improved estimates of near-global
ocean heat content and thermal expansion for the upper 300 m and 700 m of the
ocean for 1950-2003, using statistical techniques that allow for sparse data
coverage and applying recent corrections to reduce systematic biases in the most 
common ocean temperature observations. Our ocean warming and thermal expansion
trends for 1961-2003 are about 50 per cent larger than earlier estimates but
about 40 per cent smaller for 1993-2003, which is consistent with the recognition
that previously estimated rates for the 1990s had a positive bias as a result of 
instrumental errors. On average, the decadal variability of the climate models
with volcanic forcing now agrees approximately with the observations, but the
modelled multi-decadal trends are smaller than observed. We add our observational
estimate of upper-ocean thermal expansion to other contributions to sea-level
rise and find that the sum of contributions from 1961 to 2003 is about 1.5 +/-
0.4 mm yr(-1), in good agreement with our updated estimate of near-global mean
sea-level rise (using techniques established in earlier studies) of 1.6 +/- 0.2
mm yr(-1).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07080 
PMID: 18563162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1086-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07049.

Nanoscale holographic interferometry for strain measurements in electronic
devices.

Hÿtch M(1), Houdellier F, Hüe F, Snoeck E.

Author information: 
(1)CEMES-CNRS, nMat Group, 29 rue Jeanne Marvig, 31055 Toulouse, France.
hytch@cemes.fr

Strained silicon is now an integral feature of the latest generation of
transistors and electronic devices because of the associated enhancement in
carrier mobility. Strain is also expected to have an important role in future
devices based on nanowires and in optoelectronic components. Different strategies
have been used to engineer strain in devices, leading to complex strain
distributions in two and three dimensions. Developing methods of strain
measurement at the nanoscale has therefore been an important objective in recent 
years but has proved elusive in practice: none of the existing techniques
combines the necessary spatial resolution, precision and field of view. For
example, Raman spectroscopy or X-ray diffraction techniques can map strain at the
micrometre scale, whereas transmission electron microscopy allows strain
measurement at the nanometre scale but only over small sample areas. Here we
present a technique capable of bridging this gap and measuring strain to high
precision, with nanometre spatial resolution and for micrometre fields of view.
Our method combines the advantages of moiré techniques with the flexibility of
off-axis electron holography and is also applicable to relatively thick samples, 
thus reducing the influence of thin-film relaxation effects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07049 
PMID: 18563161 


528. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1083-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07077.

Jovian-like aurorae on Saturn.

Stallard T(1), Miller S, Melin H, Lystrup M, Cowley SW, Bunce EJ, Achilleos N,
Dougherty M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leicester, Leicester LE1
7RH, UK. tss@ion.le.ac.uk

Planetary aurorae are formed by energetic charged particles streaming along the
planet's magnetic field lines into the upper atmosphere from the surrounding
space environment. Earth's main auroral oval is formed through interactions with 
the solar wind, whereas that at Jupiter is formed through interactions with
plasma from the moon Io inside its magnetic field (although other processes form 
aurorae at both planets). At Saturn, only the main auroral oval has previously
been observed and there remains much debate over its origin. Here we report the
discovery of a secondary oval at Saturn that is approximately 25 per cent as
bright as the main oval, and we show this to be caused by interaction with the
middle magnetosphere around the planet. This is a weak equivalent of Jupiter's
main oval, its relative dimness being due to the lack of as large a source of
ions as Jupiter's volcanic moon Io. This result suggests that differences seen in
the auroral emissions from Saturn and Jupiter are due to scaling differences in
the conditions at each of these two planets, whereas the underlying formation
processes are the same.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07077 
PMID: 18563160 


529. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1079-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07069.

Surprising dissimilarities in a newly formed pair of 'identical twin' stars.

Stassun KG(1), Mathieu RD, Cargile PA, Aarnio AN, Stempels E, Geller A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee 37235, USA. keivan.stassun@vanderbilt.edu

The mass and chemical composition of a star are the primary determinants of its
basic physical properties-radius, temperature and luminosity-and how those
properties evolve with time. Accordingly, two stars born at the same time, from
the same natal material and with the same mass, are 'identical twins,' and as
such might be expected to possess identical physical attributes. We have
discovered in the Orion nebula a pair of stellar twins in a newborn binary star
system. Each star in the binary has a mass of 0.41 +/- 0.01 solar masses,
identical to within 2 per cent. Here we report that these twin stars have surface
temperatures differing by approximately 300 K ( approximately 10 per cent) and
luminosities differing by approximately 50 per cent, both at high confidence
level. Preliminary results indicate that the stars' radii also differ, by 5-10
per cent. These surprising dissimilarities suggest that one of the twins may have
been delayed by several hundred thousand years in its formation relative to its
sibling. Such a delay could only have been detected in a very young, definitively
equal-mass binary system. Our findings reveal cosmic limits on the age
synchronization of young binary stars, often used as tests for the age
calibrations of star-formation models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07069 
PMID: 18563159 


530. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1064-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06967.

The amphioxus genome and the evolution of the chordate karyotype.

Putnam NH(1), Butts T, Ferrier DE, Furlong RF, Hellsten U, Kawashima T,
Robinson-Rechavi M, Shoguchi E, Terry A, Yu JK, Benito-Gutiérrez EL, Dubchak I,
Garcia-Fernàndez J, Gibson-Brown JJ, Grigoriev IV, Horton AC, de Jong PJ, Jurka
J, Kapitonov VV, Kohara Y, Kuroki Y, Lindquist E, Lucas S, Osoegawa K, Pennacchio
LA, Salamov AA, Satou Y, Sauka-Spengler T, Schmutz J, Shin-I T, Toyoda A,
Bronner-Fraser M, Fujiyama A, Holland LZ, Holland PW, Satoh N, Rokhsar DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, California 94598,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):999-1000.

Lancelets ('amphioxus') are the modern survivors of an ancient chordate lineage, 
with a fossil record dating back to the Cambrian period. Here we describe the
structure and gene content of the highly polymorphic approximately 520-megabase
genome of the Florida lancelet Branchiostoma floridae, and analyse it in the
context of chordate evolution. Whole-genome comparisons illuminate the murky
relationships among the three chordate groups (tunicates, lancelets and
vertebrates), and allow not only reconstruction of the gene complement of the
last common chordate ancestor but also partial reconstruction of its genomic
organization, as well as a description of two genome-wide duplications and
subsequent reorganizations in the vertebrate lineage. These genome-scale events
shaped the vertebrate genome and provided additional genetic variation for
exploitation during vertebrate evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06967 
PMID: 18563158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1058-63. doi: 10.1038/nature07048.

Micro-engineered local field control for high-sensitivity multispectral MRI.

Zabow G(1), Dodd S, Moreland J, Koretsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA. zabow@boulder.nist.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):993-4.

In recent years, biotechnology and biomedical research have benefited from the
introduction of a variety of specialized nanoparticles whose well-defined,
optically distinguishable signatures enable simultaneous tracking of numerous
biological indicators. Unfortunately, equivalent multiplexing capabilities are
largely absent in the field of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Comparable
magnetic-resonance labels have generally been limited to relatively simple
chemically synthesized superparamagnetic microparticles that are, to a large
extent, indistinguishable from one another. Here we show how it is instead
possible to use a top-down microfabrication approach to effectively encode
distinguishable spectral signatures into the geometry of magnetic
microstructures. Although based on different physical principles from those of
optically probed nanoparticles, these geometrically defined magnetic
microstructures permit a multiplexing functionality in the magnetic resonance
radio-frequency spectrum that is in many ways analogous to that permitted by
quantum dots in the optical spectrum. Additionally, in situ modification of
particle geometries may facilitate radio-frequency probing of various local
physiological variables.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07048 
PMID: 18563157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1051-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07036.

Induction and effector functions of T(H)17 cells.

Bettelli E(1), Korn T, Oukka M, Kuchroo VK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

T helper (T(H)) cells constitute an important arm of the adaptive immune system
because they coordinate defence against specific pathogens, and their unique
cytokines and effector functions mediate different types of tissue inflammation. 
The recently discovered T(H)17 cells, the third subset of effector T helper
cells, have been the subject of intense research aimed at understanding their
role in immunity and disease. Here we review emerging data suggesting that T(H)17
cells have an important role in host defence against specific pathogens and are
potent inducers of autoimmunity and tissue inflammation. In addition, the
differentiation factors responsible for their generation have revealed an
interesting reciprocal relationship with regulatory T (T(reg)) cells, which
prevent tissue inflammation and mediate self-tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07036 
PMID: 18563156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1043-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07129.

Coherent manipulation of single spins in semiconductors.

Hanson R(1), Awschalom DD.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute of Nanoscience Delft, Delft University of Technology, P.O. Box
5046, 2600 GA Delft, The Netherlands. r.hanson@tudelft.nl

During the past few years, researchers have gained unprecedented control over
spins in the solid state. What was considered almost impossible a decade ago, in 
both conceptual and practical terms, is now a reality: single spins can be
isolated, initialized, coherently manipulated and read out using both electrical 
and optical techniques. Progress has been made towards full control of the
quantum states of single and coupled spins in a variety of semiconductors and
nanostructures, and towards understanding the mechanisms through which spins lose
coherence in these systems. These abilities will allow pioneering investigations 
of fundamental quantum-mechanical processes and provide pathways towards
applications in quantum information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07129 
PMID: 18563155 


534. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1031-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07128.

Superconducting quantum bits.

Clarke J(1), Wilhelm FK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics,366 LeConte Hall, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. jclarke@berkeley.edu

Superconducting circuits are macroscopic in size but have generic quantum
properties such as quantized energy levels, superposition of states, and
entanglement, all of which are more commonly associated with atoms.
Superconducting quantum bits (qubits) form the key component of these circuits.
Their quantum state is manipulated by using electromagnetic pulses to control the
magnetic flux, the electric charge or the phase difference across a Josephson
junction (a device with nonlinear inductance and no energy dissipation). As such,
superconducting qubits are not only of considerable fundamental interest but also
might ultimately form the primitive building blocks of quantum computers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07128 
PMID: 18563154 


535. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1023-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07127.

The quantum internet.

Kimble HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics 12-33, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA. hjkimble@caltech.edu

Quantum networks provide opportunities and challenges across a range of
intellectual and technical frontiers, including quantum computation,
communication and metrology. The realization of quantum networks composed of many
nodes and channels requires new scientific capabilities for generating and
characterizing quantum coherence and entanglement. Fundamental to this endeavour 
are quantum interconnects, which convert quantum states from one physical system 
to those of another in a reversible manner. Such quantum connectivity in networks
can be achieved by the optical interactions of single photons and atoms, allowing
the distribution of entanglement across the network and the teleportation of
quantum states between nodes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07127 
PMID: 18563153 


536. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1016-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07126.

Quantum coherence and entanglement with ultracold atoms in optical lattices.

Bloch I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, 55099 Mainz,
Germany. bloch@uni-mainz.de

At nanokelvin temperatures, ultracold quantum gases can be stored in optical
lattices, which are arrays of microscopic trapping potentials formed by laser
light. Such large arrays of atoms provide opportunities for investigating quantum
coherence and generating large-scale entanglement, ultimately leading to quantum 
information processing in these artificial crystal structures. These arrays can
also function as versatile model systems for the study of strongly interacting
many-body systems on a lattice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07126 
PMID: 18563152 


537. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1008-15. doi: 10.1038/nature07125.

Entangled states of trapped atomic ions.

Blatt R(1), Wineland D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstrasse 25,
A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria. Rainer.Blatt@uibk.ac.at

To process information using quantum-mechanical principles, the states of
individual particles need to be entangled and manipulated. One way to do this is 
to use trapped, laser-cooled atomic ions. Attaining a general-purpose quantum
computer is, however, a distant goal, but recent experiments show that just a few
entangled trapped ions can be used to improve the precision of measurements. If
the entanglement in such systems can be scaled up to larger numbers of ions,
simulations that are intractable on a classical computer might become possible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07125 
PMID: 18563151 


538. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1004-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07124.

Quantifying entanglement in macroscopic systems.

Vedral V(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
vlatko.vedral@quantuminfo.org

Traditionally, entanglement was considered to be a quirk of microscopic objects
that defied a common-sense explanation. Now, however, entanglement is recognized 
to be ubiquitous and robust. With the realization that entanglement can occur in 
macroscopic systems - and with the development of experiments aimed at exploiting
this fact - new tools are required to define and quantify entanglement beyond the
original microscopic framework.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07124 
PMID: 18563150 


539. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1098-101. doi: 10.1038/nature06996. Epub 2008 May
28.

Cortical control of a prosthetic arm for self-feeding.

Velliste M(1), Perel S, Spalding MC, Whitford AS, Schwartz AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, School of Medicine, E1440 BST, Lothrop Street,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):994-5.

Arm movement is well represented in populations of neurons recorded from the
motor cortex. Cortical activity patterns have been used in the new field of
brain-machine interfaces to show how cursors on computer displays can be moved in
two- and three-dimensional space. Although the ability to move a cursor can be
useful in its own right, this technology could be applied to restore arm and hand
function for amputees and paralysed persons. However, the use of cortical signals
to control a multi-jointed prosthetic device for direct real-time interaction
with the physical environment ('embodiment') has not been demonstrated. Here we
describe a system that permits embodied prosthetic control; we show how monkeys
(Macaca mulatta) use their motor cortical activity to control a mechanized arm
replica in a self-feeding task. In addition to the three dimensions of movement, 
the subjects' cortical signals also proportionally controlled a gripper on the
end of the arm. Owing to the physical interaction between the monkey, the robotic
arm and objects in the workspace, this new task presented a higher level of
difficulty than previous virtual (cursor-control) experiments. Apart from an
example of simple one-dimensional control, previous experiments have lacked
physical interaction even in cases where a robotic arm or hand was included in
the control loop, because the subjects did not use it to interact with physical
objects-an interaction that cannot be fully simulated. This demonstration of
multi-degree-of-freedom embodied prosthetic control paves the way towards the
development of dexterous prosthetic devices that could ultimately achieve arm and
hand function at a near-natural level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06996 
PMID: 18509337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1112-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06973. Epub 2008 May 25.

Synergistic response to oncogenic mutations defines gene class critical to cancer
phenotype.

McMurray HR(1), Sampson ER, Compitello G, Kinsey C, Newman L, Smith B, Chen SR,
Klebanov L, Salzman P, Yakovlev A, Land H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester Medical Center, 601
Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14642, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):995-6.

Understanding the molecular underpinnings of cancer is of critical importance to 
the development of targeted intervention strategies. Identification of such
targets, however, is notoriously difficult and unpredictable. Malignant cell
transformation requires the cooperation of a few oncogenic mutations that cause
substantial reorganization of many cell features and induce complex changes in
gene expression patterns. Genes critical to this multifaceted cellular phenotype 
have therefore only been identified after signalling pathway analysis or on an ad
hoc basis. Our observations that cell transformation by cooperating oncogenic
lesions depends on synergistic modulation of downstream signalling circuitry
suggest that malignant transformation is a highly cooperative process, involving 
synergy at multiple levels of regulation, including gene expression. Here we show
that a large proportion of genes controlled synergistically by loss-of-function
p53 and Ras activation are critical to the malignant state of murine and human
colon cells. Notably, 14 out of 24 'cooperation response genes' were found to
contribute to tumour formation in gene perturbation experiments. In contrast,
only 1 in 14 perturbations of the genes responding in a non-synergistic manner
had a similar effect. Synergistic control of gene expression by oncogenic
mutations thus emerges as an underlying key to malignancy, and provides an
attractive rationale for identifying intervention targets in gene networks
downstream of oncogenic gain- and loss-of-function mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06973 
PMCID: PMC2613942
PMID: 18500333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1122-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06939. Epub 2008 May 21.

Crucial role for the Nalp3 inflammasome in the immunostimulatory properties of
aluminium adjuvants.

Eisenbarth SC(1), Colegio OR, O'Connor W, Sutterwala FS, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Aluminium adjuvants, typically referred to as 'alum', are the most commonly used 
adjuvants in human and animal vaccines worldwide, yet the mechanism underlying
the stimulation of the immune system by alum remains unknown. Toll-like receptors
are critical in sensing infections and are therefore common targets of various
adjuvants used in immunological studies. Although alum is known to induce the
production of proinflammatory cytokines in vitro, it has been repeatedly
demonstrated that alum does not require intact Toll-like receptor signalling to
activate the immune system. Here we show that aluminium adjuvants activate an
intracellular innate immune response system called the Nalp3 (also known as
cryopyrin, CIAS1 or NLRP3) inflammasome. Production of the pro-inflammatory
cytokines interleukin-1beta and interleukin-18 by macrophages in response to alum
in vitro required intact inflammasome signalling. Furthermore, in vivo, mice
deficient in Nalp3, ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a
caspase recruitment domain) or caspase-1 failed to mount a significant antibody
response to an antigen administered with aluminium adjuvants, whereas the
response to complete Freund's adjuvant remained intact. We identify the Nalp3
inflammasome as a crucial element in the adjuvant effect of aluminium adjuvants; 
in addition, we show that the innate inflammasome pathway can direct a humoral
adaptive immune response. This is likely to affect how we design effective, but
safe, adjuvants in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06939 
PMCID: PMC4804622
PMID: 18496530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1117-21. doi: 10.1038/nature06951. Epub 2008 May
11.

Deficiency in catechol-O-methyltransferase and 2-methoxyoestradiol is associated 
with pre-eclampsia.

Kanasaki K(1), Palmsten K, Sugimoto H, Ahmad S, Hamano Y, Xie L, Parry S,
Augustin HG, Gattone VH, Folkman J, Strauss JF, Kalluri R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Matrix Biology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Despite intense investigation, mechanisms that facilitate the emergence of the
pre-eclampsia phenotype in women are still unknown. Placental hypoxia,
hypertension, proteinuria and oedema are the principal clinical features of this 
disease. It is speculated that hypoxia-driven disruption of the angiogenic
balance involving vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)/placenta-derived
growth factor (PLGF) and soluble Fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFLT-1, the soluble 
form of VEGF receptor 1) might contribute to some of the maternal symptoms of
pre-eclampsia. However, pre-eclampsia does not develop in all women with high
sFLT-1 or low PLGF levels, and it also occurs in some women with low sFLT-1 and
high PLGF levels. Moreover, recent experiments strongly suggest that several
soluble factors affecting the vasculature are probably elevated because of
placental hypoxia in the pre-eclamptic women, indicating that upstream molecular 
defect(s) may contribute to pre-eclampsia. Here we show that pregnant mice
deficient in catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) show a pre-eclampsia-like
phenotype resulting from an absence of 2-methoxyoestradiol (2-ME), a natural
metabolite of oestradiol that is elevated during the third trimester of normal
human pregnancy. 2-ME ameliorates all pre-eclampsia-like features without
toxicity in the Comt(-/-) pregnant mice and suppresses placental hypoxia,
hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha expression and sFLT-1 elevation. The levels of
COMT and 2-ME are significantly lower in women with severe pre-eclampsia. Our
studies identify a genetic mouse model for pre-eclampsia and suggest that 2-ME
may have utility as a plasma and urine diagnostic marker for this disease, and
may also serve as a therapeutic supplement to prevent or treat this disorder.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06951 
PMID: 18469803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1072-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07016. Epub 2008 May 11.

PML targeting eradicates quiescent leukaemia-initiating cells.

Ito K(1), Bernardi R, Morotti A, Matsuoka S, Saglio G, Ikeda Y, Rosenblatt J,
Avigan DE, Teruya-Feldstein J, Pandolfi PP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genetics Program, Beth Israel Deaconess Cancer Center, Department of
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, New Research Building, 330 Brookline Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

The existence of a small population of 'cancer-initiating cells' responsible for 
tumour maintenance has been firmly demonstrated in leukaemia. This concept is
currently being tested in solid tumours. Leukaemia-initiating cells, particularly
those that are in a quiescent state, are thought to be resistant to chemotherapy 
and targeted therapies, resulting in disease relapse. Chronic myeloid leukaemia
is a paradigmatic haematopoietic stem cell disease in which the
leukaemia-initiating-cell pool is not eradicated by current therapy, leading to
disease relapse on drug discontinuation. Here we define the critical role of the 
promyelocytic leukaemia protein (PML) tumour suppressor in haematopoietic stem
cell maintenance, and present a new therapeutic approach for targeting quiescent 
leukaemia-initiating cells and possibly cancer-initiating cells by
pharmacological inhibition of PML.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07016 
PMCID: PMC2712082
PMID: 18469801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1132-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06923. Epub 2008 May 7.

Midzone activation of aurora B in anaphase produces an intracellular
phosphorylation gradient.

Fuller BG(1), Lampson MA, Foley EA, Rosasco-Nitcher S, Le KV, Tobelmann P,
Brautigan DL, Stukenberg PT, Kapoor TM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Proper partitioning of the contents of a cell between two daughters requires
integration of spatial and temporal cues. The anaphase array of microtubules that
self-organize at the spindle midzone contributes to positioning the cell-division
plane midway between the segregating chromosomes. How this signalling occurs over
length scales of micrometres, from the midzone to the cell cortex, is not known. 
Here we examine the anaphase dynamics of protein phosphorylation by aurora B
kinase, a key mitotic regulator, using fluorescence resonance energy transfer
(FRET)-based sensors in living HeLa cells and immunofluorescence of native aurora
B substrates. Quantitative analysis of phosphorylation dynamics, using
chromosome- and centromere-targeted sensors, reveals that changes are due
primarily to position along the division axis rather than time. These dynamics
result in the formation of a spatial phosphorylation gradient early in anaphase
that is centred at the spindle midzone. This gradient depends on aurora B
targeting to a subpopulation of microtubules that activate it. Aurora kinase
activity organizes the targeted microtubules to generate a structure-based
feedback loop. We propose that feedback between aurora B kinase activation and
midzone microtubules generates a gradient of post-translational marks that
provides spatial information for events in anaphase and cytokinesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06923 
PMCID: PMC2724008
PMID: 18463638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1094-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06943. Epub 2008 May 7.

Cytokinin and auxin interaction in root stem-cell specification during early
embryogenesis.

Müller B(1), Sheen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA. mueller@molbio.mgh.harvard.edu

Plant stem-cell pools, the source for all organs, are first established during
embryogenesis. It has been known for decades that cytokinin and auxin interact to
control organ regeneration in cultured tissue. Auxin has a critical role in root 
stem-cell specification in zygotic embryogenesis, but the early embryonic
function of cytokinin is obscure. Here, we introduce a synthetic reporter to
visualize universally cytokinin output in vivo. Notably, the first embryonic
signal is detected in the hypophysis, the founder cell of the root stem-cell
system. Its apical daughter cell, the precursor of the quiescent centre,
maintains phosphorelay activity, whereas the basal daughter cell represses
signalling output. Auxin activity levels, however, exhibit the inverse profile.
Furthermore, we show that auxin antagonizes cytokinin output in the basal cell
lineage by direct transcriptional activation of ARABIDOPSIS RESPONSE REGULATOR
genes, ARR7 and ARR15, feedback repressors of cytokinin signalling. Loss of ARR7 
and ARR15 function or ectopic cytokinin signalling in the basal cell during early
embryogenesis results in a defective root stem-cell system. These results provide
a molecular model of transient and antagonistic interaction between auxin and
cytokinin critical for specifying the first root stem-cell niche.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06943 
PMCID: PMC2601652
PMID: 18463635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06910. Epub 2008 May 4.

Neural substrates of vocalization feedback monitoring in primate auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Vocal communication involves both speaking and hearing, often taking place
concurrently. Vocal production, including human speech and animal vocalization,
poses a number of unique challenges for the auditory system. It is important for 
the auditory system to monitor external sounds continuously from the acoustic
environment during speaking despite the potential for sensory masking by
self-generated sounds. It is also essential for the auditory system to monitor
feedback of one's own voice. This self-monitoring may play a part in
distinguishing between self-generated or externally generatedauditory inputs and 
in detecting errors in our vocal production. Previous work in humans and other
animals has demonstrated that the auditory cortex is largely suppressed during
speaking or vocalizing. Despite the importance of self-monitoring, the underlying
neural mechanisms in the mammalian brain, in particular the role of
vocalization-induced suppression, remain virtually unknown. Here we show that
neurons in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) are
sensitive to auditory feedback during vocal production, and that changes in the
feedback alter the coding properties of these neurons. Furthermore, we found that
the previously described cortical suppression during vocalization actually
increased the sensitivity of these neurons to vocal feedback. This heightened
sensitivity to vocal feedback suggests that these neurons may have an important
role in auditory self-monitoring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06910 
PMID: 18454135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1107-11. doi: 10.1038/nature06909. Epub 2008 Apr
30.

RNA toxicity is a component of ataxin-3 degeneration in Drosophila.

Li LB(1), Yu Z, Teng X, Bonini NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104-6018, USA.

Polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases are a class of dominantly inherited
neurodegenerative disorders caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat encoding
glutamine within the coding region of the respective genes. The molecular and
cellular pathways underlying polyQ-induced neurodegeneration are the focus of
much research, and it is widely considered that toxic activities of the protein, 
resulting from the abnormally long polyQ tract, cause pathogenesis. Here we
provide evidence for a pathogenic role of the CAG repeat RNA in polyQ toxicity
using Drosophila. In a Drosophila screen for modifiers of polyQ degeneration
induced by the spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) protein ataxin-3, we isolated
an upregulation allele of muscleblind (mbl), a gene implicated in the RNA
toxicity of CUG expansion diseases. Further analysis indicated that there may be 
a toxic role of the RNA in polyQ-induced degeneration. We tested the role of the 
RNA by altering the CAG repeat sequence to an interrupted CAACAG repeat within
the polyQ-encoding region; this dramatically mitigated toxicity. In addition,
expression of an untranslated CAG repeat of pathogenic length conferred neuronal 
degeneration. These studies reveal a role for the RNA in polyQ toxicity,
highlighting common components in RNA-based and polyQ-protein-based trinucleotide
repeat expansion diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06909 
PMCID: PMC2574630
PMID: 18449188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1127-31. doi: 10.1038/nature06934. Epub 2008 Apr
16.

Haem homeostasis is regulated by the conserved and concerted functions of HRG-1
proteins.

Rajagopal A(1), Rao AU, Amigo J, Tian M, Upadhyay SK, Hall C, Uhm S, Mathew MK,
Fleming MD, Paw BH, Krause M, Hamza I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal & Avian Sciences, University of Maryland, College Park,
Maryland 20742, USA.

Haems are metalloporphyrins that serve as prosthetic groups for various
biological processes including respiration, gas sensing, xenobiotic
detoxification, cell differentiation, circadian clock control, metabolic
reprogramming and microRNA processing. With a few exceptions, haem is synthesized
by a multistep biosynthetic pathway comprising defined intermediates that are
highly conserved throughout evolution. Despite our extensive knowledge of haem
biosynthesis and degradation, the cellular pathways and molecules that mediate
intracellular haem trafficking are unknown. The experimental setback in
identifying haem trafficking pathways has been the inability to dissociate the
highly regulated cellular synthesis and degradation of haem from intracellular
trafficking events. Caenorhabditis elegans and related helminths are natural haem
auxotrophs that acquire environmental haem for incorporation into haemoproteins, 
which have vertebrate orthologues. Here we show, by exploiting this auxotrophy to
identify HRG-1 proteins in C. elegans, that these proteins are essential for haem
homeostasis and normal development in worms and vertebrates. Depletion of hrg-1, 
or its paralogue hrg-4, in worms results in the disruption of organismal haem
sensing and an abnormal response to haem analogues. HRG-1 and HRG-4 are
previously unknown transmembrane proteins, which reside in distinct intracellular
compartments. Transient knockdown of hrg-1 in zebrafish leads to hydrocephalus,
yolk tube malformations and, most strikingly, profound defects in
erythropoiesis-phenotypes that are fully rescued by worm HRG-1. Human and worm
proteins localize together, and bind and transport haem, thus establishing an
evolutionarily conserved function for HRG-1. These findings reveal conserved
pathways for cellular haem trafficking in animals that define the model for
eukaryotic haem transport. Thus, uncovering the mechanisms of haem transport in
C. elegans may provide insights into human disorders of haem metabolism and
reveal new drug targets for developing anthelminthics to combat worm
infestations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06934 
PMCID: PMC4058867
PMID: 18418376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):925-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07055.

Substrate-targeting gamma-secretase modulators.

Kukar TL(1), Ladd TB, Bann MA, Fraering PC, Narlawar R, Maharvi GM, Healy B,
Chapman R, Welzel AT, Price RW, Moore B, Rangachari V, Cusack B, Eriksen J,
Jansen-West K, Verbeeck C, Yager D, Eckman C, Ye W, Sagi S, Cottrell BA, Torpey
J, Rosenberry TL, Fauq A, Wolfe MS, Schmidt B, Walsh DM, Koo EH, Golde TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 4500
San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, Florida 32224, USA. kukar.thomas@mayo.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):861-2.

Selective lowering of Abeta42 levels (the 42-residue isoform of the amyloid-beta 
peptide) with small-molecule gamma-secretase modulators (GSMs), such as some
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, is a promising therapeutic approach for
Alzheimer's disease. To identify the target of these agents we developed
biotinylated photoactivatable GSMs. GSM photoprobes did not label the core
proteins of the gamma-secretase complex, but instead labelled the beta-amyloid
precursor protein (APP), APP carboxy-terminal fragments and amyloid-beta peptide 
in human neuroglioma H4 cells. Substrate labelling was competed by other GSMs,
and labelling of an APP gamma-secretase substrate was more efficient than a Notch
substrate. GSM interaction was localized to residues 28-36 of amyloid-beta, a
region critical for aggregation. We also demonstrate that compounds known to
interact with this region of amyloid-beta act as GSMs, and some GSMs alter the
production of cell-derived amyloid-beta oligomers. Furthermore, mutation of the
GSM binding site in the APP alters the sensitivity of the substrate to GSMs.
These findings indicate that substrate targeting by GSMs mechanistically links
two therapeutic actions: alteration in Abeta42 production and inhibition of
amyloid-beta aggregation, which may synergistically reduce amyloid-beta
deposition in Alzheimer's disease. These data also demonstrate the existence and 
feasibility of 'substrate targeting' by small-molecule effectors of proteolytic
enzymes, which if generally applicable may significantly broaden the current
notion of 'druggable' targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07055 
PMCID: PMC2678541
PMID: 18548070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):917-20. doi: 10.1038/nature06841.

Perceptual accuracy and conflicting effects of certainty on risk-taking
behaviour.

Shafir S(1), Reich T, Tsur E, Erev I, Lotem A.

Author information: 
(1)B. Triwaks Bee Research Center, Department of Entomology, Faculty of
Agricultural, Food and Environmental Quality Sciences, The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

The 'certainty effect' is a notable violation of expected utility theory by
decision makers. It shows that people's tendency to select the safer of two
prospects increases when this prospect provides a good outcome with certainty
(for example, people prefer a monetary gain of 3 with certainty over 4 with a
probability of 0.8, but do not prefer 3 with a probability of 0.25 over 4 with a 
probability of 0.2). Subsequent work on experience-based decision making in rats 
extended the certainty effect to other animals, suggesting its generality across 
different species and different decision-making mechanisms. However, an attempt
to replicate this study with human subjects showed a surprising 'reversed
certainty effect', namely, the tendency to prefer the safer option decreases when
this prospect is associated with certainty (and people now prefer 4 with a
probability of 0.8 over 3 with certainty). Here we show that these conflicting
results can be explained by perceptual noise and that the certainty effect can be
restored experimentally by reducing perceptual accuracy. Using complementary
experiments in humans and honeybees (Apis mellifera), we show that by
manipulating perceptual accuracy in experience-based tasks, both the certainty
and the reversed certainty effects can be exhibited by humans and other animals: 
the certainty effect emerges when it is difficult to discriminate between the
different rewards, whereas the reversed certainty effect emerges when
discrimination is easy. Our results fit a simple process-based model of matching 
behaviour, capable of explaining the certainty effect in humans and other animals
that make repeated decisions based on experience. This mechanism should probably 
be distinguished from those involved in the original certainty effect that was
exhibited by human subjects in single description-based problems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06841 
PMID: 18548069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):910-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07073.

Continental mantle signature of Bushveld magmas and coeval diamonds.

Richardson SH(1), Shirey SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch 7701,
South Africa. steve.richardson@uct.ac.za

The emplacement of the 2.05-billion-year-old Bushveld complex, the world's
largest layered intrusion and platinum-group element (PGE) repository, is a
singular event in the history of the Kaapvaal craton of southern Africa, one of
Earth's earliest surviving continental nuclei. In the prevailing model for the
complex's mineralization, the radiogenic strontium and osmium isotope signatures 
of Bushveld PGE ores are attributed to continental crustal contamination of the
host magmas. The scale of the intrusion and lateral homogeneity of the
PGE-enriched layers, however, have long been problematical for the crustal
contamination model, given the typically heterogeneous nature of continental
crust. Furthermore, the distribution of Bushveld magmatism matches that of
seismically anomalous underlying mantle, implying significant interaction before 
emplacement in the crust. Mineral samples of the ancient 200-km-deep craton keel,
encapsulated in macrodiamonds and entrained by proximal kimberlites, reveal the
nature of continental mantle potentially incorporated by Bushveld magmas. Here we
show that sulphide inclusions in approximately 2-billion-year-old diamonds from
the 0.5-billion-year-old Venetia and 1.2-billion-year-old Premier kimberlites (on
opposite sides of the complex) have initial osmium isotope ratios even more
radiogenic than those of Bushveld sulphide ore minerals. Sulphide Re-Os and
silicate Sm-Nd and Rb-Sr isotope compositions indicate that continental mantle
harzburgite and eclogite components, in addition to the original convecting
mantle magma, most probably contributed to the genesis of both the diamonds and
the Bushveld complex. Coeval diamonds provide key evidence that the main source
of Bushveld PGEs is the mantle rather than the crust.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07073 
PMID: 18548068 


552. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):906-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07010.

Capture of hydroxymethylene and its fast disappearance through tunnelling.

Schreiner PR(1), Reisenauer HP, Pickard FC 4th, Simmonett AC, Allen WD, Mátyus E,
Császár AG.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie der Justus-Liebig-Universität,
Heinrich-Buff-Ring 58, D-35392 Giessen, Germany. prs@org.chemie.uni-giessen.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):862-3.

Singlet carbenes exhibit a divalent carbon atom whose valence shell contains only
six electrons, four involved in bonding to two other atoms and the remaining two 
forming a non-bonding electron pair. These features render singlet carbenes so
reactive that they were long considered too short-lived for isolation and direct 
characterization. This view changed when it was found that attaching the divalent
carbon atom to substituents that are bulky and/or able to donate electrons
produces carbenes that can be isolated and stored. N-heterocyclic carbenes are
such compounds now in wide use, for example as ligands in metathesis catalysis.
In contrast, oxygen-donor-substituted carbenes are inherently less stable and
have been less studied. The pre-eminent case is hydroxymethylene, H-C-OH;
although it is the key intermediate in the high-energy chemistry of its tautomer 
formaldehyde, has been implicated since 1921 in the photocatalytic formation of
carbohydrates, and is the parent of alkoxycarbenes that lie at the heart of
transition-metal carbene chemistry, all attempts to observe this species or other
alkoxycarbenes have failed. However, theoretical considerations indicate that
hydroxymethylene should be isolatable. Here we report the synthesis of
hydroxymethylene and its capture by matrix isolation. We unexpectedly find that
H-C-OH rearranges to formaldehyde with a half-life of only 2 h at 11 K by pure
hydrogen tunnelling through a large energy barrier in excess of 30 kcal mol(-1).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07010 
PMID: 18548067 


553. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):895-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07071.

Anderson localization of a non-interacting Bose-Einstein condensate.

Roati G(1), D'Errico C, Fallani L, Fattori M, Fort C, Zaccanti M, Modugno G,
Modugno M, Inguscio M.

Author information: 
(1)LENS and Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Firenze, 50019 Sesto
Fiorentino, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):866.

Anderson localization of waves in disordered media was originally predicted fifty
years ago, in the context of transport of electrons in crystals. The phenomenon
is much more general and has been observed in a variety of systems, including
light waves. However, Anderson localization has not been observed directly for
matter waves. Owing to the high degree of control over most of the system
parameters (in particular the interaction strength), ultracold atoms offer
opportunities for the study of disorder-induced localization. Here we use a
non-interacting Bose-Einstein condensate to study Anderson localization. The
experiment is performed with a one-dimensional quasi-periodic lattice-a system
that features a crossover between extended and exponentially localized states, as
in the case of purely random disorder in higher dimensions. Localization is
clearly demonstrated through investigations of the transport properties and
spatial and momentum distributions. We characterize the crossover, finding that
the critical disorder strength scales with the tunnelling energy of the atoms in 
the lattice. This controllable system may be used to investigate the interplay of
disorder and interaction (ref. 7 and references therein), and to explore exotic
quantum phases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07071 
PMID: 18548066 


554. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):891-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07000.

Direct observation of Anderson localization of matter waves in a controlled
disorder.

Billy J(1), Josse V, Zuo Z, Bernard A, Hambrecht B, Lugan P, Clément D,
Sanchez-Palencia L, Bouyer P, Aspect A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Charles Fabry de l'Institut d'Optique, CNRS and Univ. Paris-Sud,
Campus Polytechnique, RD 128, F-91127 Palaiseau cedex, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):866.

In 1958, Anderson predicted the localization of electronic wavefunctions in
disordered crystals and the resulting absence of diffusion. It is now recognized 
that Anderson localization is ubiquitous in wave physics because it originates
from the interference between multiple scattering paths. Experimentally,
localization has been reported for light waves, microwaves, sound waves and
electron gases. However, there has been no direct observation of exponential
spatial localization of matter waves of any type. Here we observe exponential
localization of a Bose-Einstein condensate released into a one-dimensional
waveguide in the presence of a controlled disorder created by laser speckle. We
operate in a regime of pure Anderson localization, that is, with weak
disorder-such that localization results from many quantum reflections of low
amplitude-and an atomic density low enough to render interactions negligible. We 
directly image the atomic density profiles as a function of time, and find that
weak disorder can stop the expansion and lead to the formation of a stationary,
exponentially localized wavefunction-a direct signature of Anderson localization.
We extract the localization length by fitting the exponential wings of the
profiles, and compare it to theoretical calculations. The power spectrum of the
one-dimensional speckle potentials has a high spatial frequency cutoff, causing
exponential localization to occur only when the de Broglie wavelengths of the
atoms in the expanding condensate are greater than an effective mobility edge
corresponding to that cutoff. In the opposite case, we find that the density
profiles decay algebraically, as predicted in ref. 13. The method presented here 
can be extended to localization of atomic quantum gases in higher dimensions, and
with controlled interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07000 
PMID: 18548065 


555. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):869-78. doi: 10.1038/nature06976.

What we can do and what we cannot do with fMRI.

Logothetis NK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany, and
Imaging Science and Biomedical Engineering, University of Manchester, Manchester 
M13 9PL, UK. nikos.logothetis@tuebingen.mpg.de

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is currently the mainstay of
neuroimaging in cognitive neuroscience. Advances in scanner technology, image
acquisition protocols, experimental design, and analysis methods promise to push 
forward fMRI from mere cartography to the true study of brain organization.
However, fundamental questions concerning the interpretation of fMRI data abound,
as the conclusions drawn often ignore the actual limitations of the methodology. 
Here I give an overview of the current state of fMRI, and draw on neuroimaging
and physiological data to present the current understanding of the haemodynamic
signals and the constraints they impose on neuroimaging data interpretation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06976 
PMID: 18548064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):940-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07017. Epub 2008 May 28.

Magnetic resonance imaging of pH in vivo using hyperpolarized 13C-labelled
bicarbonate.

Gallagher FA(1), Kettunen MI, Day SE, Hu DE, Ardenkjaer-Larsen JH, Zandt Ri,
Jensen PR, Karlsson M, Golman K, Lerche MH, Brindle KM.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, Cambridge Research Institute, Li Ka Shing Centre, Robinson
Way, Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.

As alterations in tissue pH underlie many pathological processes, the capability 
to image tissue pH in the clinic could offer new ways of detecting disease and
response to treatment. Dynamic nuclear polarization is an emerging technique for 
substantially increasing the sensitivity of magnetic resonance imaging
experiments. Here we show that tissue pH can be imaged in vivo from the ratio of 
the signal intensities of hyperpolarized bicarbonate (H(13)CO(3)(-)) and
(13)CO(2) following intravenous injection of hyperpolarized H(13)CO(3)(-). The
technique was demonstrated in a mouse tumour model, which showed that the average
tumour interstitial pH was significantly lower than the surrounding tissue. Given
that bicarbonate is an endogenous molecule that can be infused in relatively high
concentrations into patients, we propose that this technique could be used
clinically to image pathological processes that are associated with alterations
in tissue pH, such as cancer, ischaemia and inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07017 
PMID: 18509335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):899-902. doi: 10.1038/nature07057. Epub 2008 May
28.

Magnetic order close to superconductivity in the iron-based layered LaO1-xFxFeAs 
systems.

de la Cruz C(1), Huang Q, Lynn JW, Li J, Ratcliff W 2nd, Zarestky JL, Mook HA,
Chen GF, Luo JL, Wang NL, Dai P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tennessee 37996-1200, USA.

Following the discovery of long-range antiferromagnetic order in the parent
compounds of high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) copper oxides, there have
been efforts to understand the role of magnetism in the superconductivity that
occurs when mobile 'electrons' or 'holes' are doped into the antiferromagnetic
parent compounds. Superconductivity in the newly discovered rare-earth iron-based
oxide systems ROFeAs (R, rare-earth metal) also arises from either electron or
hole doping of their non-superconducting parent compounds. The parent material
LaOFeAs is metallic but shows anomalies near 150 K in both resistivity and d.c.
magnetic susceptibility. Although optical conductivity and theoretical
calculations suggest that LaOFeAs exhibits a spin-density-wave (SDW) instability 
that is suppressed by doping with electrons to induce superconductivity, there
has been no direct evidence of SDW order. Here we report neutron-scattering
experiments that demonstrate that LaOFeAs undergoes an abrupt structural
distortion below 155 K, changing the symmetry from tetragonal (space group
P4/nmm) to monoclinic (space group P112/n) at low temperatures, and then, at
approximately 137 K, develops long-range SDW-type antiferromagnetic order with a 
small moment but simple magnetic structure. Doping the system with fluorine
suppresses both the magnetic order and the structural distortion in favour of
superconductivity. Therefore, like high-T(c) copper oxides, the superconducting
regime in these iron-based materials occurs in close proximity to a
long-range-ordered antiferromagnetic ground state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07057 
PMID: 18509333 


558. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):903-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07058. Epub 2008 May 28.

Two-band superconductivity in LaFeAsO0.89F0.11 at very high magnetic fields.

Hunte F(1), Jaroszynski J, Gurevich A, Larbalestier DC, Jin R, Sefat AS, McGuire 
MA, Sales BC, Christen DK, Mandrus D.

Author information: 
(1)National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32310, USA. hunte@asc.magnet.fsu.edu

The recent synthesis of the superconductor LaFeAsO(0.89)F(0.11) with transition
temperature T(c) approximately 26 K (refs 1-4) has been quickly followed by
reports of even higher transition temperatures in related compounds: 41 K in
CeFeAsO(0.84)F(0.16) (ref. 5), 43 K in SmFeAsO(0.9)F(0.1) (ref. 6), and 52 K in
NdFeAsO(0.89)F(0.11) and PrFeAsO(0.89)F(0.11) (refs 7, 8). These discoveries have
generated much interest in the mechanisms and manifestations of unconventional
superconductivity in the family of doped quaternary layered oxypnictides LnOTMPn 
(Ln: La, Pr, Ce, Sm; TM: Mn, Fe, Co, Ni; Pn: P, As), because many features of
these materials set them apart from other known superconductors. Here we report
resistance measurements of LaFeAsO(0.89)F(0.11) at high magnetic fields, up to 45
T, that show a remarkable enhancement of the upper critical field B(c2) compared 
to values expected from the slopes dB(c2)/dT approximately 2 T K(-1) near T(c),
particularly at low temperatures where the deduced B(c2)(0) approximately 63-65 T
exceeds the paramagnetic limit. We argue that oxypnictides represent a new class 
of high-field superconductors with B(c2) values surpassing those of Nb(3)Sn,
MgB(2) and the Chevrel phases, and perhaps exceeding the 100 T magnetic field
benchmark of the high-T(c) copper oxides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07058 
PMID: 18509332 


559. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):879-84. doi: 10.1038/nature06994. Epub 2008 May 21.

A phosphatase cascade by which rewarding stimuli control nucleosomal response.

Stipanovich A(1), Valjent E, Matamales M, Nishi A, Ahn JH, Maroteaux M,
Bertran-Gonzalez J, Brami-Cherrier K, Enslen H, Corbillé AG, Filhol O, Nairn AC, 
Greengard P, Hervé D, Girault JA.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, UMR-S 839, 75005 Paris, France.

Dopamine orchestrates motor behaviour and reward-driven learning. Perturbations
of dopamine signalling have been implicated in several neurological and
psychiatric disorders, and in drug addiction. The actions of dopamine are
mediated in part by the regulation of gene expression in the striatum, through
mechanisms that are not fully understood. Here we show that drugs of abuse, as
well as food reinforcement learning, promote the nuclear accumulation of 32-kDa
dopamine-regulated and cyclic-AMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32). This
accumulation is mediated through a signalling cascade involving dopamine D1
receptors, cAMP-dependent activation of protein phosphatase-2A, dephosphorylation
of DARPP-32 at Ser 97 and inhibition of its nuclear export. The nuclear
accumulation of DARPP-32, a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1, increases 
the phosphorylation of histone H3, an important component of nucleosomal
response. Mutation of Ser 97 profoundly alters behavioural effects of drugs of
abuse and decreases motivation for food, underlining the functional importance of
this signalling cascade.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06994 
PMCID: PMC2796210
PMID: 18496528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):885-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07004. Epub 2008 May 21.

Structural basis for the regulated protease and chaperone function of DegP.

Krojer T(1), Sawa J, Schäfer E, Saibil HR, Ehrmann M, Clausen T.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Molecular Pathology - IMP, Dr Bohrgasse 7, A-1030
Vienna, Austria.

All organisms have to monitor the folding state of cellular proteins precisely.
The heat-shock protein DegP is a protein quality control factor in the bacterial 
envelope that is involved in eliminating misfolded proteins and in the biogenesis
of outer-membrane proteins. Here we describe the molecular mechanisms underlying 
the regulated protease and chaperone function of DegP from Escherichia coli. We
show that binding of misfolded proteins transforms hexameric DegP into large,
catalytically active 12-meric and 24-meric multimers. A structural analysis of
these particles revealed that DegP represents a protein packaging device whose
central compartment is adaptable to the size and concentration of substrate.
Moreover, the inner cavity serves antagonistic functions. Whereas the
encapsulation of folded protomers of outer-membrane proteins is protective and
might allow safe transit through the periplasm, misfolded proteins are eliminated
in the molecular reaction chamber. Oligomer reassembly and concomitant activation
on substrate binding may also be critical in regulating other HtrA proteases
implicated in protein-folding diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07004 
PMID: 18496527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):921-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06975. Epub 2008 May 18.

Towards a transgenic model of Huntington's disease in a non-human primate.

Yang SH(1), Cheng PH, Banta H, Piotrowska-Nitsche K, Yang JJ, Cheng EC, Snyder B,
Larkin K, Liu J, Orkin J, Fang ZH, Smith Y, Bachevalier J, Zola SM, Li SH, Li XJ,
Chan AW.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia
30329, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):863-4.

Non-human primates are valuable for modelling human disorders and for developing 
therapeutic strategies; however, little work has been reported in establishing
transgenic non-human primate models of human diseases. Huntington's disease (HD) 
is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor
impairment, cognitive deterioration and psychiatric disturbances followed by
death within 10-15 years of the onset of the symptoms. HD is caused by the
expansion of cytosine-adenine-guanine (CAG, translated into glutamine)
trinucleotide repeats in the first exon of the human huntingtin (HTT) gene.
Mutant HTT with expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) is widely expressed in the brain
and peripheral tissues, but causes selective neurodegeneration that is most
prominent in the striatum and cortex of the brain. Although rodent models of HD
have been developed, these models do not satisfactorily parallel the brain
changes and behavioural features observed in HD patients. Because of the close
physiological, neurological and genetic similarities between humans and higher
primates, monkeys can serve as very useful models for understanding human
physiology and diseases. Here we report our progress in developing a transgenic
model of HD in a rhesus macaque that expresses polyglutamine-expanded HTT.
Hallmark features of HD, including nuclear inclusions and neuropil aggregates,
were observed in the brains of the HD transgenic monkeys. Additionally, the
transgenic monkeys showed important clinical features of HD, including dystonia
and chorea. A transgenic HD monkey model may open the way to understanding the
underlying biology of HD better, and to the development of potential therapies.
Moreover, our data suggest that it will be feasible to generate valuable
non-human primate models of HD and possibly other human genetic diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06975 
PMCID: PMC2652570
PMID: 18488016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):914-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06719. Epub 2008 May 11.

Ultrasonic frogs show hyperacute phonotaxis to female courtship calls.

Shen JX(1), Feng AS, Xu ZM, Yu ZL, Arch VS, Yu XJ, Narins PM.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Brain and Cognitive Science, Institute of Biophysics, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China. shenjx@sun5.ibp.ac.cn

Sound communication plays a vital role in frog reproduction, in which vocal
advertisement is generally the domain of males. Females are typically silent, but
in a few anuran species they can produce a feeble reciprocal call or rapping
sounds during courtship. Males of concave-eared torrent frogs (Odorrana tormota) 
have demonstrated ultrasonic communication capacity. Although females of O.
tormota have an unusually well-developed vocal production system, it is unclear
whether or not they produce calls or are only passive partners in a communication
system dominated by males. Here we show that before ovulation, gravid females of 
O. tormota emit calls that are distinct from males' advertisement calls, having
higher fundamental frequencies and harmonics and shorter call duration. In the
field and in a quiet, darkened indoor arena, these female calls evoke
vocalizations and extraordinarily precise positive phonotaxis (a localization
error of <1 degrees ), rivalling that of vertebrates with the highest
localization acuity (barn owls, dolphins, elephants and humans). The localization
accuracy of O. tormota is remarkable in light of their small head size
(interaural distance of <1 cm), and suggests an additional selective advantage of
high-frequency hearing beyond the ability to avoid masking by low-frequency
background noise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06719 
PMID: 18469804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):948-51. doi: 10.1038/nature06947. Epub 2008 May 7.

Domain organization of human chromosomes revealed by mapping of nuclear lamina
interactions.

Guelen L(1), Pagie L, Brasset E, Meuleman W, Faza MB, Talhout W, Eussen BH, de
Klein A, Wessels L, de Laat W, van Steensel B.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Biology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Aug 8;500(7461):242.

The architecture of human chromosomes in interphase nuclei is still largely
unknown. Microscopy studies have indicated that specific regions of chromosomes
are located in close proximity to the nuclear lamina (NL). This has led to the
idea that certain genomic elements may be attached to the NL, which may
contribute to the spatial organization of chromosomes inside the nucleus.
However, sequences in the human genome that interact with the NL in vivo have not
been identified. Here we construct a high-resolution map of the interaction sites
of the entire genome with NL components in human fibroblasts. This map shows that
genome-lamina interactions occur through more than 1,300 sharply defined large
domains 0.1-10 megabases in size. These lamina-associated domains (LADs) are
typified by low gene-expression levels, indicating that LADs represent a
repressive chromatin environment. The borders of LADs are demarcated by the
insulator protein CTCF, by promoters that are oriented away from LADs, or by CpG 
islands, suggesting possible mechanisms of LAD confinement. Taken together, these
results demonstrate that the human genome is divided into large, discrete domains
that are units of chromosome organization within the nucleus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06947 
PMID: 18463634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):944-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06955. Epub 2008 May 7.

Global control of cell-cycle transcription by coupled CDK and network
oscillators.

Orlando DA(1), Lin CY, Bernard A, Wang JY, Socolar JE, Iversen ES, Hartemink AJ, 
Haase SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

A significant fraction of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome is transcribed
periodically during the cell division cycle, indicating that properly timed gene 
expression is important for regulating cell-cycle events. Genomic analyses of the
localization and expression dynamics of transcription factors suggest that a
network of sequentially expressed transcription factors could control the
temporal programme of transcription during the cell cycle. However, directed
studies interrogating small numbers of genes indicate that their periodic
transcription is governed by the activity of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). To 
determine the extent to which the global cell-cycle transcription programme is
controlled by cyclin-CDK complexes, we examined genome-wide transcription
dynamics in budding yeast mutant cells that do not express S-phase and mitotic
cyclins. Here we show that a significant fraction of periodic genes are
aberrantly expressed in the cyclin mutant. Although cells lacking cyclins are
blocked at the G1/S border, nearly 70% of periodic genes continued to be
expressed periodically and on schedule. Our findings reveal that although CDKs
have a function in the regulation of cell-cycle transcription, they are not
solely responsible for establishing the global periodic transcription programme. 
We propose that periodic transcription is an emergent property of a transcription
factor network that can function as a cell-cycle oscillator independently of, and
in tandem with, the CDK oscillator.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06955 
PMCID: PMC2736871
PMID: 18463633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):930-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06944. Epub 2008 May 4.

Sex determination involves synergistic action of SRY and SF1 on a specific Sox9
enhancer.

Sekido R(1), Lovell-Badge R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Genetics, MRC National Institute for Medical
Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK. rsekido@nimr.mrc.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 11;456(7223):824.

The mammalian Y chromosome acts as a dominant male determinant as a result of the
action of a single gene, Sry, whose role in sex determination is to initiate
testis rather than ovary development from early bipotential gonads. It does so by
triggering the differentiation of Sertoli cells from supporting cell precursors, 
which would otherwise give follicle cells. The related autosomal gene Sox9 is
also known from loss-of-function mutations in mice and humans to be essential for
Sertoli cell differentiation; moreover, its abnormal expression in an XX gonad
can lead to male development in the absence of Sry. These genetic data, together 
with the finding that Sox9 is upregulated in Sertoli cell precursors just after
SRY expression begins, has led to the proposal that Sox9 could be directly
regulated by SRY. However, the mechanism by which SRY action might affect Sox9
expression was not understood. Here we show that SRY binds to multiple elements
within a Sox9 gonad-specific enhancer in mice, and that it does so along with
steroidogenic factor 1 (SF1, encoded by the gene Nr5a1 (Sf1)), an orphan nuclear 
receptor. Mutation, co-transfection and sex-reversal studies all point to a
feedforward, self-reinforcing pathway in which SF1 and SRY cooperatively
upregulate Sox9 and then, together with SF1, SOX9 also binds to the enhancer to
help maintain its own expression after that of SRY has ceased. Our results open
up the field, permitting further characterization of the molecular mechanisms
regulating sex determination and how they have evolved, as well as how they fail 
in cases of sex reversal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06944 
PMID: 18454134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):935-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06901. Epub 2008 Apr 23.

Draper-dependent glial phagocytic activity is mediated by Src and Syk family
kinase signalling.

Ziegenfuss JS(1), Biswas R, Avery MA, Hong K, Sheehan AE, Yeung YG, Stanley ER,
Freeman MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 364
Plantation Street, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605-2324, USA.

The cellular machinery promoting phagocytosis of corpses of apoptotic cells is
well conserved from worms to mammals. An important component is the
Caenorhabditis elegans engulfment receptor CED-1 (ref. 1) and its Drosophila
orthologue, Draper. The CED-1/Draper signalling pathway is also essential for the
phagocytosis of other types of 'modified self' including necrotic cells,
developmentally pruned axons and dendrites, and axons undergoing Wallerian
degeneration. Here we show that Drosophila Shark, a non-receptor tyrosine kinase 
similar to mammalian Syk and Zap-70, binds Draper through an immunoreceptor
tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) in the Draper intracellular domain. We
show that Shark activity is essential for Draper-mediated signalling events in
vivo, including the recruitment of glial membranes to severed axons and the
phagocytosis of axonal debris and neuronal cell corpses by glia. We also show
that the Src family kinase (SFK) Src42A can markedly increase Draper
phosphorylation and is essential for glial phagocytic activity. We propose that
ligand-dependent Draper receptor activation initiates the Src42A-dependent
tyrosine phosphorylation of Draper, the association of Shark and the activation
of the Draper pathway. These Draper-Src42A-Shark interactions are strikingly
similar to mammalian immunoreceptor-SFK-Syk signalling events in mammalian
myeloid and lymphoid cells. Thus, Draper seems to be an ancient immunoreceptor
with an extracellular domain tuned to modified self, and an intracellular domain 
promoting phagocytosis through an ITAM-domain-SFK-Syk-mediated signalling
cascade.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06901 
PMCID: PMC2493287
PMID: 18432193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):779-82. doi: 10.1038/nature06958.

Understanding individual human mobility patterns.

González MC(1), Hidalgo CA, Barabási AL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Complex Network Research and Department of Physics, Biology and
Computer Science, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Despite their importance for urban planning, traffic forecasting and the spread
of biological and mobile viruses, our understanding of the basic laws governing
human motion remains limited owing to the lack of tools to monitor the
time-resolved location of individuals. Here we study the trajectory of 100,000
anonymized mobile phone users whose position is tracked for a six-month period.
We find that, in contrast with the random trajectories predicted by the
prevailing Lévy flight and random walk models, human trajectories show a high
degree of temporal and spatial regularity, each individual being characterized by
a time-independent characteristic travel distance and a significant probability
to return to a few highly frequented locations. After correcting for differences 
in travel distances and the inherent anisotropy of each trajectory, the
individual travel patterns collapse into a single spatial probability
distribution, indicating that, despite the diversity of their travel history,
humans follow simple reproducible patterns. This inherent similarity in travel
patterns could impact all phenomena driven by human mobility, from epidemic
prevention to emergency response, urban planning and agent-based modelling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06958 
PMID: 18528393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):770-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06990.

Simultaneous teleseismic and geodetic observations of the stick-slip motion of an
Antarctic ice stream.

Wiens DA(1), Anandakrishnan S, Winberry JP, King MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Washington University, St Louis,
Missouri 63130, USA. doug@wustl.edu

Long-period seismic sources associated with glacier motion have been recently
discovered, and an increase in ice flow over the past decade has been suggested
on the basis of secular changes in such measurements. Their significance,
however, remains uncertain, as a relationship to ice flow has not been confirmed 
by direct observation. Here we combine long-period surface-wave observations with
simultaneous Global Positioning System measurements of ice displacement to study 
the tidally modulated stick-slip motion of the Whillans Ice Stream in West
Antarctica. The seismic origin time corresponds to slip nucleation at a region of
the bed of the Whillans Ice Stream that is likely stronger than in surrounding
regions and, thus, acts like an 'asperity' in traditional fault models. In
addition to the initial pulse, two seismic arrivals occurring 10-23 minutes later
represent stopping phases as the slip terminates at the ice stream edge and the
grounding line. Seismic amplitude and average rupture velocity are correlated
with tidal amplitude for the different slip events during the spring-to-neap
tidal cycle. Although the total seismic moment calculated from ice rigidity, slip
displacement, and rupture area is equivalent to an earthquake of moment magnitude
seven (M(w) 7), seismic amplitudes are modest (M(s) 3.6-4.2), owing to the source
duration of 20-30 minutes. Seismic radiation from ice movement is proportional to
the derivative of the moment rate function at periods of 25-100 seconds and very 
long-period radiation is not detected, owing to the source geometry. Long-period 
seismic waves are thus useful for detecting and studying sudden ice movements but
are insensitive to the total amount of slip.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06990 
PMID: 18528392 


569. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):763-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07009.

Charge self-regulation upon changing the oxidation state of transition metals in 
insulators.

Raebiger H(1), Lany S, Zunger A.

Author information: 
(1)National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, Colorado 80401, USA.
hannes_raebiger@nrel.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):735.

Transition-metal atoms embedded in an ionic or semiconducting crystal can exist
in various oxidation states that have distinct signatures in X-ray photoemission 
spectroscopy and 'ionic radii' which vary with the oxidation state of the atom.
These oxidation states are often tacitly associated with a physical ionization of
the transition-metal atoms--that is, a literal transfer of charge to or from the 
atoms. Physical models have been founded on this charge-transfer paradigm, but
first-principles quantum mechanical calculations show only negligible changes in 
the local transition-metal charge as the oxidation state is altered. Here we
explain this peculiar tendency of transition-metal atoms to maintain a constant
local charge under external perturbations in terms of an inherent,
homeostasis-like negative feedback. We show that signatures of oxidation states
and multivalence--such as X-ray photoemission core-level shifts, ionic radii and 
variations in local magnetization--that have often been interpreted as literal
charge transfer are instead a consequence of the negative-feedback charge
regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07009 
PMID: 18528391 


570. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):757-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07012.

High-harmonic generation by resonant plasmon field enhancement.

Kim S(1), Jin J, Kim YJ, Park IY, Kim Y, Kim SW.

Author information: 
(1)Billionth Uncertainty Precision Engineering Group, KAIST, Daedeok Science
Town, Daejeon 305-701, South Korea.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):731-3.
    Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):E1-2; discussion E2-3.

High-harmonic generation by focusing a femtosecond laser onto a gas is a
well-known method of producing coherent extreme-ultraviolet (EUV) light. This
nonlinear conversion process requires high pulse intensities, greater than 10(13)
W cm(-2), which are not directly attainable using only the output power of a
femtosecond oscillator. Chirped-pulse amplification enables the pulse intensity
to exceed this threshold by incorporating several regenerative and/or multi-pass 
amplifier cavities in tandem. Intracavity pulse amplification (designed not to
reduce the pulse repetition rate) also requires a long cavity. Here we
demonstrate a method of high-harmonic generation that requires no extra cavities.
This is achieved by exploiting the local field enhancement induced by resonant
plasmons within a metallic nanostructure consisting of bow-tie-shaped gold
elements on a sapphire substrate. In our experiment, the output beam emitted from
a modest femtosecond oscillator (100-kW peak power, 1.3-nJ pulse energy and 10-fs
pulse duration) is directly focused onto the nanostructure with a pulse intensity
of only 10(11) W cm(-2). The enhancement factor exceeds 20 dB, which is
sufficient to produce EUV wavelengths down to 47 nm by injection with an argon
gas jet. The method could form the basis for constructing laptop-sized EUV light 
sources for advanced lithography and high-resolution imaging applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07012 
PMID: 18528390 


571. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):739-44. doi: 10.1038/nature06999.

The determination of the structure of Saturn's F ring by nearby moonlets.

Murray CD(1), Beurle K, Cooper NJ, Evans MW, Williams GA, Charnoz S.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Unit, Queen Mary, University of London, Mile End Road, London E1
4NS, UK. c.d.murray@qmul.ac.uk

Saturn's narrow F ring exhibits several unusual features that vary on timescales 
of hours to years. These include transient clumps, a central core surrounded by a
multistranded structure and a regular series of longitudinal channels associated 
with Prometheus, one of the ring's two 'shepherding' satellites. Several smaller 
moonlets and clumps have been detected in the ring's immediate vicinity, and a
population of embedded objects has been inferred. Here we report direct evidence 
of moonlets embedded in the ring's bright core, and show that most of the F
ring's morphology results from the continual gravitational and collisional
effects of small satellites, often combined with the perturbing effect of
Prometheus. The F-ring region is perhaps the only location in the Solar System
where large-scale collisional processes are occurring on an almost daily basis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06999 
PMID: 18528389 


572. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):767-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07072. Epub 2008 May 28.

Hydrogen sulphide release to surface waters at the Precambrian/Cambrian boundary.

Wille M(1), Nägler TF, Lehmann B, Schröder S, Kramers JD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geological Sciences, University of Bern, Baltzerstrasse 3, 3012
Bern, Switzerland. martin.wille@anu.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):E5-6; discussion E6.

Animal-like multicellular fossils appeared towards the end of the Precambrian,
followed by a rapid increase in the abundance and diversity of fossils during the
Early Cambrian period, an event also known as the 'Cambrian explosion'. Changes
in the environmental conditions at the Precambrian/Cambrian transition (about 542
Myr ago) have been suggested as a possible explanation for this event, but are
still a matter of debate. Here we report molybdenum isotope signatures of black
shales from two stratigraphically correlated sample sets with a depositional age 
of around 542 Myr. We find a transient molybdenum isotope signal immediately
after the Precambrian/Cambrian transition. Using a box model of the oceanic
molybdenum cycle, we find that intense upwelling of hydrogen sulphide-rich deep
ocean water best explains the observed Early Cambrian molybdenum isotope signal. 
Our findings suggest that the Early Cambrian animal radiation may have been
triggered by a major change in ocean circulation, terminating a long period
during which the Proterozoic ocean was stratified, with sulphidic deep water.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07072 
PMID: 18509331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):761-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07045. Epub 2008 May 25.

Superconductivity at 43 K in SmFeAsO1-xFx.

Chen XH(1), Wu T, Wu G, Liu RH, Chen H, Fang DF.

Author information: 
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale and Department
of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026,
China. chenxh@ustc.edu.cn

Since the discovery of high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) superconductivity 
in layered copper oxides, extensive effort has been devoted to exploring the
origins of this phenomenon. A T(c) higher than 40 K (about the theoretical
maximum predicted from Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory), however, has been
obtained only in the copper oxide superconductors. The highest reported value for
non-copper-oxide bulk superconductivity is T(c) = 39 K in MgB(2) (ref. 2). The
layered rare-earth metal oxypnictides LnOFeAs (where Ln is La-Nd, Sm and Gd) are 
now attracting attention following the discovery of superconductivity at 26 K in 
the iron-based LaO(1-x)F(x)FeAs (ref. 3). Here we report the discovery of bulk
superconductivity in the related compound SmFeAsO(1-x)F(x), which has a
ZrCuSiAs-type structure. Resistivity and magnetization measurements reveal a
transition temperature as high as 43 K. This provides a new material base for
studying the origin of high-temperature superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07045 
PMID: 18500328 


574. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):751-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06953. Epub 2008 May 14.

A two-tiered mechanism for stabilization and immobilization of E-cadherin.

Cavey M(1), Rauzi M, Lenne PF, Lecuit T.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Biologie du Développment de Marseille Luminy, UMR 6216
CNRS-Université de la Méditerranée, Campus de Luminy case 907, 13288 Marseille
Cedex 09, France.

Epithelial tissues maintain a robust architecture which is important for their
barrier function, but they are also remodelled through the reorganization of
cell-cell contacts. Tissue stability requires intercellular adhesion mediated by 
E-cadherin, in particular its trans-association in homophilic complexes supported
by actin filaments through beta- and alpha-catenin. How alpha-catenin dynamic
interactions between E-cadherin/beta-catenin and cortical actin control both
stability and remodelling of adhesion is unclear. Here we focus on Drosophila
homophilic E-cadherin complexes rather than total E-cadherin, including diffusing
'free' E-cadherin, because these complexes are a better proxy for adhesion. We
find that E-cadherin complexes partition in very stable microdomains (that is,
bona fide adhesive foci which are more stable than remodelling contacts).
Furthermore, we find that stability and mobility of these microdomains depend on 
two actin populations: small, stable actin patches concentrate at homophilic
E-cadherin clusters, whereas a rapidly turning over, contractile network
constrains their lateral movement by a tethering mechanism. alpha-Catenin
controls epithelial architecture mainly through regulation of the mobility of
homophilic clusters and it is largely dispensable for their stability. Uncoupling
stability and mobility of E-cadherin complexes suggests that stable epithelia may
remodel through the regulated mobility of very stable adhesive foci.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06953 
PMID: 18480755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):793-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06938. Epub 2008 May 7.

Drosophila endogenous small RNAs bind to Argonaute 2 in somatic cells.

Kawamura Y(1), Saito K, Kin T, Ono Y, Asai K, Sunohara T, Okada TN, Siomi MC,
Siomi H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genome Research, University of Tokushima, Tokushima 770-8503,
Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):729-31.

RNA silencing is a conserved mechanism in which small RNAs trigger various forms 
of sequence-specific gene silencing by guiding Argonaute complexes to target RNAs
by means of base pairing. RNA silencing is thought to have evolved as a form of
nucleic-acid-based immunity to inactivate viruses and transposable elements.
Although the activity of transposable elements in animals has been thought
largely to be restricted to the germ line, recent studies have shown that they
may also actively transpose in somatic cells, creating somatic mosaicism in
animals. In the Drosophila germ line, Piwi-interacting RNAs arise from repetitive
intergenic elements including retrotransposons by a Dicer-independent pathway and
function through the Piwi subfamily of Argonautes to ensure silencing of
retrotransposons. Here we show that, in cultured Drosophila S2 cells, Argonaute 2
(AGO2), an AGO subfamily member of Argonautes, associates with endogenous small
RNAs of 20-22 nucleotides in length, which we have collectively named endogenous 
short interfering RNAs (esiRNAs). esiRNAs can be divided into two groups: one
that mainly corresponds to a subset of retrotransposons, and the other that
arises from stem-loop structures. esiRNAs are produced in a Dicer-2-dependent
manner from distinctive genomic loci, are modified at their 3' ends and can
direct AGO2 to cleave target RNAs. Mutations in Dicer-2 caused an increase in
retrotransposon transcripts. Together, our findings indicate that different types
of small RNAs and Argonautes are used to repress retrotransposons in germline and
somatic cells in Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06938 
PMID: 18463636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):745-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07005. Epub 2008 May 7.

The branching programme of mouse lung development.

Metzger RJ(1), Klein OD, Martin GR, Krasnow MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and HHMI, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305-5307, USA. ross.metzger@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):733-5.

Mammalian lungs are branched networks containing thousands to millions of airways
arrayed in intricate patterns that are crucial for respiration. How such trees
are generated during development, and how the developmental patterning
information is encoded, have long fascinated biologists and mathematicians.
However, models have been limited by a lack of information on the normal sequence
and pattern of branching events. Here we present the complete three-dimensional
branching pattern and lineage of the mouse bronchial tree, reconstructed from an 
analysis of hundreds of developmental intermediates. The branching process is
remarkably stereotyped and elegant: the tree is generated by three geometrically 
simple local modes of branching used in three different orders throughout the
lung. We propose that each mode of branching is controlled by a genetically
encoded subroutine, a series of local patterning and morphogenesis operations,
which are themselves controlled by a more global master routine. We show that
this hierarchical and modular programme is genetically tractable, and it is
ideally suited to encoding and evolving the complex networks of the lung and
other branched organs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07005 
PMCID: PMC2892995
PMID: 18463632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):798-802. doi: 10.1038/nature07007. Epub 2008 May 7.

An endogenous small interfering RNA pathway in Drosophila.

Czech B(1), Malone CD, Zhou R, Stark A, Schlingeheyde C, Dus M, Perrimon N,
Kellis M, Wohlschlegel JA, Sachidanandam R, Hannon GJ, Brennecke J.

Author information: 
(1)Watson School of Biological Sciences, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):729-31.

Drosophila endogenous small RNAs are categorized according to their mechanisms of
biogenesis and the Argonaute protein to which they bind. MicroRNAs are a class of
ubiquitously expressed RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotides in length, which
arise from structured precursors through the action of Drosha-Pasha and
Dicer-1-Loquacious complexes. These join Argonaute-1 to regulate gene expression.
A second endogenous small RNA class, the Piwi-interacting RNAs, bind Piwi
proteins and suppress transposons. Piwi-interacting RNAs are restricted to the
gonad, and at least a subset of these arises by Piwi-catalysed cleavage of
single-stranded RNAs. Here we show that Drosophila generates a third small RNA
class, endogenous small interfering RNAs, in both gonadal and somatic tissues.
Production of these RNAs requires Dicer-2, but a subset depends preferentially on
Loquacious rather than the canonical Dicer-2 partner, R2D2 (ref. 14). Endogenous 
small interfering RNAs arise both from convergent transcription units and from
structured genomic loci in a tissue-specific fashion. They predominantly join
Argonaute-2 and have the capacity, as a class, to target both protein-coding
genes and mobile elements. These observations expand the repertoire of small RNAs
in Drosophila, adding a class that blurs distinctions based on known biogenesis
mechanisms and functional roles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07007 
PMCID: PMC2895258
PMID: 18463631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):803-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07015. Epub 2008 May 7.

The Drosophila hairpin RNA pathway generates endogenous short interfering RNAs.

Okamura K(1), Chung WJ, Ruby JG, Guo H, Bartel DP, Lai EC.

Author information: 
(1)Sloan-Kettering Institute, Department of Developmental Biology, 521
Rockefeller Research Laboratories, 1275 York Avenue, Box 252, New York, New York 
10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):729-31.

In contrast to microRNAs and Piwi-associated RNAs, short interfering RNAs
(siRNAs) are seemingly dispensable for host-directed gene regulation in
Drosophila. This notion is based on the fact that mutants lacking the core
siRNA-generating enzyme Dicer-2 or the predominant siRNA effector Argonaute 2 are
viable, fertile and of relatively normal morphology. Moreover, endogenous
Drosophila siRNAs have not yet been identified. Here we report that siRNAs
derived from long hairpin RNA genes (hpRNAs) programme Slicer complexes that can 
repress endogenous target transcripts. The Drosophila hpRNA pathway is a hybrid
mechanism that combines canonical RNA interference factors (Dicer-2, Hen1 (known 
as CG12367) and Argonaute 2) with a canonical microRNA factor (Loquacious) to
generate approximately 21-nucleotide siRNAs. These novel regulatory RNAs reveal
unexpected complexity in the sorting of small RNAs, and open a window onto the
biological usage of endogenous RNA interference in Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07015 
PMCID: PMC2735555
PMID: 18463630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):775-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06891. Epub 2008 May 4.

Cladistic analysis of continuous modularized traits provides phylogenetic signals
in Homo evolution.

González-José R(1), Escapa I, Neves WA, Cúneo R, Pucciarelli HM.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Investigación de Diversidad, Sistemática y Evolución, Centro
Nacional Patagónico, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas, 
CONICET, Boulevard Brown 2825, U9120ACF Puerto Madryn, Argentina.
rolando@cenpat.edu.ar

Evolutionary novelties in the skeleton are usually expressed as changes in the
timing of growth of features intrinsically integrated at different hierarchical
levels of development. As a consequence, most of the shape-traits observed across
species do vary quantitatively rather than qualitatively, in a multivariate space
and in a modularized way. Because most phylogenetic analyses normally use
discrete, hypothetically independent characters, previous attempts have
disregarded the phylogenetic signals potentially enclosed in the shape of
morphological structures. When analysing low taxonomic levels, where most
variation is quantitative in nature, solving basic requirements like the choice
of characters and the capacity of using continuous, integrated traits is of
crucial importance in recovering wider phylogenetic information. This is
particularly relevant when analysing extinct lineages, where available data are
limited to fossilized structures. Here we show that when continuous, multivariant
and modularized characters are treated as such, cladistic analysis successfully
solves relationships among main Homo taxa. Our attempt is based on a combination 
of cladistics, evolutionary-development-derived selection of characters, and
geometric morphometrics methods. In contrast with previous cladistic analyses of 
hominid phylogeny, our method accounts for the quantitative nature of the traits,
and respects their morphological integration patterns. Because complex phenotypes
are observable across different taxonomic groups and are potentially informative 
about phylogenetic relationships, future analyses should point strongly to the
incorporation of these types of trait.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06891 
PMID: 18454137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):783-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06902. Epub 2008 May 4.

Dynamics of fat cell turnover in humans.

Spalding KL(1), Arner E, Westermark PO, Bernard S, Buchholz BA, Bergmann O,
Blomqvist L, Hoffstedt J, Näslund E, Britton T, Concha H, Hassan M, Rydén M,
Frisén J, Arner P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Karolinska Institute, SE-171 77
Stockholm, Sweden. kirsty.spalding@ki.se

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):169.

Obesity is increasing in an epidemic manner in most countries and constitutes a
public health problem by enhancing the risk for cardiovascular disease and
metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes. Owing to the increase in obesity,
life expectancy may start to decrease in developed countries for the first time
in recent history. The factors determining fat mass in adult humans are not fully
understood, but increased lipid storage in already developed fat cells
(adipocytes) is thought to be most important. Here we show that adipocyte number 
is a major determinant for the fat mass in adults. However, the number of fat
cells stays constant in adulthood in lean and obese individuals, even after
marked weight loss, indicating that the number of adipocytes is set during
childhood and adolescence. To establish the dynamics within the stable population
of adipocytes in adults, we have measured adipocyte turnover by analysing the
integration of 14C derived from nuclear bomb tests in genomic DNA. Approximately 
10% of fat cells are renewed annually at all adult ages and levels of body mass
index. Neither adipocyte death nor generation rate is altered in early onset
obesity, suggesting a tight regulation of fat cell number in this condition
during adulthood. The high turnover of adipocytes establishes a new therapeutic
target for pharmacological intervention in obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06902 
PMID: 18454136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):812-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06906. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Chemically ubiquitylated histone H2B stimulates hDot1L-mediated intranucleosomal 
methylation.

McGinty RK(1), Kim J, Chatterjee C, Roeder RG, Muir TW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Synthetic Protein Chemistry, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10065, USA.

Numerous post-translational modifications of histones have been described in
organisms ranging from yeast to humans. Growing evidence for dynamic regulation
of these modifications, position- and modification-specific protein interactions,
and biochemical crosstalk between modifications has strengthened the 'histone
code' hypothesis, in which histone modifications are integral to choreographing
the expression of the genome. One such modification, ubiquitylation of histone
H2B (uH2B) on lysine 120 (K120) in humans, and lysine 123 in yeast, has been
correlated with enhanced methylation of lysine 79 (K79) of histone H3 (refs 5-8),
by K79-specific methyltransferase Dot1 (KMT4). However, the specific function of 
uH2B in this crosstalk pathway is not understood. Here we demonstrate, using
chemically ubiquitylated H2B, a direct stimulation of hDot1L-mediated
intranucleosomal methylation of H3 K79. Two traceless orthogonal expressed
protein ligation (EPL) reactions were used to ubiquitylate H2B site-specifically.
This strategy, using a photolytic ligation auxiliary and a desulphurization
reaction, should be generally applicable to the chemical ubiquitylation of other 
proteins. Reconstitution of our uH2B into chemically defined nucleosomes,
followed by biochemical analysis, revealed that uH2B directly activates
methylation of H3 K79 by hDot1L. This effect is mediated through the catalytic
domain of hDot1L, most likely through allosteric mechanisms. Furthermore,
asymmetric incorporation of uH2B into dinucleosomes showed that the enhancement
of methylation was limited to nucleosomes bearing uH2B. This work demonstrates a 
direct biochemical crosstalk between two modifications on separate histone
proteins within a nucleosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06906 
PMCID: PMC3774535
PMID: 18449190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):788-92. doi: 10.1038/nature06907. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

The Cl-/H+ antiporter ClC-7 is the primary chloride permeation pathway in
lysosomes.

Graves AR(1), Curran PK, Smith CL, Mindell JA.

Author information: 
(1)Membrane Transport Biophysics Unit, Porter Neuroscience Research Center,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, 35 Convent Drive, Building 35, MSC 3701, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Lysosomes are the stomachs of the cell-terminal organelles on the endocytic
pathway where internalized macromolecules are degraded. Containing a wide range
of hydrolytic enzymes, lysosomes depend on maintaining acidic luminal pH values
for efficient function. Although acidification is mediated by a V-type proton
ATPase, a parallel anion pathway is essential to allow bulk proton transport. The
molecular identity of this anion transporter remains unknown. Recent results of
knockout experiments raise the possibility that ClC-7, a member of the CLC family
of anion channels and transporters, is a contributor to this pathway in an
osteoclast lysosome-like compartment, with loss of ClC-7 function causing
osteopetrosis. Several mammalian members of the CLC family have been
characterized in detail; some (including ClC-0, ClC-1 and ClC-2) function as
Cl--conducting ion channels, whereas others act as Cl-/H+antiporters (ClC-4 and
ClC-5). However, previous attempts at heterologous expression of ClC-7 have
failed to yield evidence of functional protein, so it is unclear whether ClC-7
has an important function in lysosomal biology, and also whether this protein
functions as a Cl- channel, a Cl-/H+ antiporter, or as something else entirely.
Here we directly demonstrate an anion transport pathway in lysosomes that has the
defining characteristics of a CLC Cl-/H+ antiporter and show that this
transporter is the predominant route for Cl- through the lysosomal membrane.
Furthermore, knockdown of ClC-7 expression by short interfering RNA can
essentially ablate this lysosomal Cl-/H+ antiport activity and can strongly
diminish the ability of lysosomes to acidify in vivo, demonstrating that ClC-7 is
a Cl-/H+ antiporter, that it constitutes the major Cl- permeability of lysosomes,
and that it is important in lysosomal acidification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06907 
PMID: 18449189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):807-11. doi: 10.1038/nature06905. Epub 2008 Apr 23.

NF-kappaB links innate immunity to the hypoxic response through transcriptional
regulation of HIF-1alpha.

Rius J(1), Guma M, Schachtrup C, Akassoglou K, Zinkernagel AS, Nizet V, Johnson
RS, Haddad GG, Karin M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Regulation and Signal Transduction, University of
California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0723, USA.

The hypoxic response is an ancient stress response triggered by low ambient
oxygen (O2) (ref. 1) and controlled by hypoxia-inducible transcription factor-1
(HIF-1), whose alpha subunit is rapidly degraded under normoxia but stabilized
when O2-dependent prolyl hydroxylases (PHDs) that target its O2-dependent
degradation domain are inhibited. Thus, the amount of HIF-1alpha, which controls 
genes involved in energy metabolism and angiogenesis, is regulated
post-translationally. Another ancient stress response is the innate immune
response, regulated by several transcription factors, among which NF-kappaB plays
a central role. NF-kappaB activation is controlled by IkappaB kinases (IKK),
mainly IKK-beta, needed for phosphorylation-induced degradation of IkappaB
inhibitors in response to infection and inflammation. IKK-beta is modestly
activated in hypoxic cell cultures when PHDs that attenuate its activation are
inhibited. However, defining the relationship between NF-kappaB and HIF-1alpha
has proven elusive. Using in vitro systems, it was reported that HIF-1alpha
activates NF-kappaB, that NF-kappaB controls HIF-1alpha transcription and that
HIF-1alpha activation may be concurrent with inhibition of NF-kappaB. Here we
show, with the use of mice lacking IKK-beta in different cell types, that
NF-kappaB is a critical transcriptional activator of HIF-1alpha and that basal
NF-kappaB activity is required for HIF-1alpha protein accumulation under hypoxia 
in cultured cells and in the liver and brain of hypoxic animals. IKK-beta
deficiency results in defective induction of HIF-1alpha target genes including
vascular endothelial growth factor. IKK-beta is also essential for HIF-1alpha
accumulation in macrophages experiencing a bacterial infection. Hence, IKK-beta
is an important physiological contributor to the hypoxic response, linking it to 
innate immunity and inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06905 
PMCID: PMC2669289
PMID: 18432192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):653-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06899.

Abundance and diversity of microbial life in ocean crust.

Santelli CM(1), Orcutt BN, Banning E, Bach W, Moyer CL, Sogin ML, Staudigel H,
Edwards KJ.

Author information: 
(1)MIT/WHOI Joint Program in Oceanography and Ocean Engineering, Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.

Oceanic lithosphere exposed at the sea floor undergoes seawater-rock alteration
reactions involving the oxidation and hydration of glassy basalt. Basalt
alteration reactions are theoretically capable of supplying sufficient energy for
chemolithoautotrophic growth. Such reactions have been shown to generate
microbial biomass in the laboratory, but field-based support for the existence of
microbes that are supported by basalt alteration is lacking. Here, using
quantitative polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization and microscopy, we 
demonstrate that prokaryotic cell abundances on seafloor-exposed basalts are 3-4 
orders of magnitude greater than in overlying deep sea water. Phylogenetic
analyses of basaltic lavas from the East Pacific Rise (9 degrees N) and around
Hawaii reveal that the basalt-hosted biosphere harbours high bacterial community 
richness and that community membership is shared between these sites. We
hypothesize that alteration reactions fuel chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms, 
which constitute a trophic base of the basalt habitat, with important
implications for deep-sea carbon cycling and chemical exchange between basalt and
sea water.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06899 
PMID: 18509444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):650-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06966.

Live birth in the Devonian period.

Long JA(1), Trinajstic K, Young GC, Senden T.

Author information: 
(1)Museum Victoria, Melbourne, PO Box 666, Melbourne 3001, Australia.
jlong@museum.vic.gov.au

The extinct placoderm fishes were the dominant group of vertebrates throughout
the Middle Palaeozoic era, yet controversy about their relationships within the
gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates) is partly due to different interpretations of
their reproductive biology. Here we document the oldest record of a live-bearing 
vertebrate in a new ptyctodontid placoderm, Materpiscis attenboroughi gen. et sp.
nov., from the Late Devonian Gogo Formation of Australia (approximately 380
million years ago). The new specimen, remarkably preserved in three dimensions,
contains a single, intra-uterine embryo connected by a permineralized umbilical
cord. An amorphous crystalline mass near the umbilical cord possibly represents
the recrystallized yolk sac. Another ptyctodont from the Gogo Formation,
Austroptyctodus gardineri, also shows three small embryos inside it in the same
position. Ptyctodontids have already provided the oldest definite evidence for
vertebrate copulation, and the new specimens confirm that some placoderms had a
remarkably advanced reproductive biology, comparable to that of some modern
sharks and rays. The new discovery points to internal fertilization and
viviparity in vertebrates as originating earliest within placoderms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06966 
PMID: 18509443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):646-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06982.

A large discontinuity in the mid-twentieth century in observed global-mean
surface temperature.

Thompson DW(1), Kennedy JJ, Wallace JM, Jones PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
Colorado 80523, USA. davet@atmos.colostate.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):601-2.

Data sets used to monitor the Earth's climate indicate that the surface of the
Earth warmed from approximately 1910 to 1940, cooled slightly from approximately 
1940 to 1970, and then warmed markedly from approximately 1970 onward. The weak
cooling apparent in the middle part of the century has been interpreted in the
context of a variety of physical factors, such as atmosphere-ocean interactions
and anthropogenic emissions of sulphate aerosols. Here we call attention to a
previously overlooked discontinuity in the record at 1945, which is a prominent
feature of the cooling trend in the mid-twentieth century. The discontinuity is
evident in published versions of the global-mean temperature time series, but
stands out more clearly after the data are filtered for the effects of internal
climate variability. We argue that the abrupt temperature drop of approximately
0.3 degrees C in 1945 is the apparent result of uncorrected instrumental biases
in the sea surface temperature record. Corrections for the discontinuity are
expected to alter the character of mid-twentieth century temperature variability 
but not estimates of the century-long trend in global-mean temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06982 
PMID: 18509442 


587. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):642-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06961.

Snowball Earth termination by destabilization of equatorial permafrost methane
clathrate.

Kennedy M(1), Mrofka D, von der Borch C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science, University of California, Riverside, California
92521, USA. martink@mail.ucr.edu

The start of the Ediacaran period is defined by one of the most severe climate
change events recorded in Earth history--the recovery from the Marinoan
'snowball' ice age, approximately 635 Myr ago (ref. 1). Marinoan glacial-marine
deposits occur at equatorial palaeolatitudes, and are sharply overlain by a thin 
interval of carbonate that preserves marine carbon and sulphur isotopic
excursions of about -5 and +15 parts per thousand, respectively; these deposits
are thought to record widespread oceanic carbonate precipitation during
postglacial sea level rise. This abrupt transition records a climate system in
profound disequilibrium and contrasts sharply with the cyclical stratigraphic
signal imparted by the balanced feedbacks modulating Phanerozoic deglaciation.
Hypotheses accounting for the abruptness of deglaciation include ice albedo
feedback, deep-ocean out-gassing during post-glacial oceanic overturn or methane 
hydrate destabilization. Here we report the broadest range of oxygen isotope
values yet measured in marine sediments (-25 per thousand to +12 per thousand) in
methane seeps in Marinoan deglacial sediments underlying the cap carbonate. This 
range of values is likely to be the result of mixing between ice-sheet-derived
meteoric waters and clathrate-derived fluids during the flushing and
destabilization of a clathrate field by glacial meltwater. The equatorial
palaeolatitude implies a highly volatile shelf permafrost pool that is an order
of magnitude larger than that of the present day. A pool of this size could have 
provided a massive biogeochemical feedback capable of triggering deglaciation and
accounting for the global postglacial marine carbon and sulphur isotopic
excursions, abrupt unidirectional warming, cap carbonate deposition, and a marine
oxygen crisis. Our findings suggest that methane released from low-latitude
permafrost clathrates therefore acted as a trigger and/or strong positive
feedback for deglaciation and warming. Methane hydrate destabilization is
increasingly suspected as an important positive feedback to climate change that
coincides with critical boundaries in the geological record and may represent one
particularly important mechanism active during conditions of strong climate
forcing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06961 
PMID: 18509441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):638-41. doi: 10.1038/nature06964.

Anatase TiO2 single crystals with a large percentage of reactive facets.

Yang HG(1), Sun CH, Qiao SZ, Zou J, Liu G, Smith SC, Cheng HM, Lu GQ.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence for Functional Nanomaterials, School of Engineering
and Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, Queensland 4072, 
Australia.

Owing to their scientific and technological importance, inorganic single crystals
with highly reactive surfaces have long been studied. Unfortunately, surfaces
with high reactivity usually diminish rapidly during the crystal growth process
as a result of the minimization of surface energy. A typical example is titanium 
dioxide (TiO2), which has promising energy and environmental applications. Most
available anatase TiO(2) crystals are dominated by the thermodynamically stable
{101} facets (more than 94 per cent, according to the Wulff construction), rather
than the much more reactive {001} facets. Here we demonstrate that for
fluorine-terminated surfaces this relative stability is reversed: {001} is
energetically preferable to {101}. We explored this effect systematically for a
range of non-metallic adsorbate atoms by first-principle quantum chemical
calculations. On the basis of theoretical predictions, we have synthesized
uniform anatase TiO(2) single crystals with a high percentage (47 per cent) of
{001} facets using hydrofluoric acid as a morphology controlling agent. Moreover,
the fluorated surface of anatase single crystals can easily be cleaned using heat
treatment to render a fluorine-free surface without altering the crystal
structure and morphology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06964 
PMID: 18509440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):633-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06930.

Quantum phase transition in a single-molecule quantum dot.

Roch N(1), Florens S, Bouchiat V, Wernsdorfer W, Balestro F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Néel, CNRS and Université Joseph Fourier, BP 166, 38042 Grenoble
cedex 9, France.

Quantum criticality is the intriguing possibility offered by the laws of quantum 
mechanics when the wave function of a many-particle physical system is forced to 
evolve continuously between two distinct, competing ground states. This
phenomenon, often related to a zero-temperature magnetic phase transition, is
believed to govern many of the fascinating properties of strongly correlated
systems such as heavy-fermion compounds or high-temperature superconductors. In
contrast to bulk materials with very complex electronic structures, artificial
nanoscale devices could offer a new and simpler means of understanding quantum
phase transitions. Here we demonstrate this possibility in a single-molecule
quantum dot, where a gate voltage induces a crossing of two different types of
electron spin state (singlet and triplet) at zero magnetic field. The quantum dot
is operated in the Kondo regime, where the electron spin on the quantum dot is
partially screened by metallic electrodes. This strong electronic coupling
between the quantum dot and the metallic contacts provides the strong electron
correlations necessary to observe quantum critical behaviour. The quantum
magnetic phase transition between two different Kondo regimes is achieved by
tuning gate voltages and is fundamentally different from previously observed
Kondo transitions in semiconductor and nanotube quantum dots. Our work may offer 
new directions in terms of control and tunability for molecular spintronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06930 
PMID: 18509439 


590. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):629-32. doi: 10.1038/nature06981.

A phase diagram for jammed matter.

Song C(1), Wang P, Makse HA.

Author information: 
(1)Levich Institute and Physics Department, City College of New York, New York,
New York 10031, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):606-7.

The problem of finding the most efficient way to pack spheres has a long history,
dating back to the crystalline arrays conjectured by Kepler and the random
geometries explored by Bernal. Apart from its mathematical interest, the problem 
has practical relevance in a wide range of fields, from granular processing to
fruit packing. There are currently numerous experiments showing that the loosest 
way to pack spheres (random loose packing) gives a density of approximately 55
per cent. On the other hand, the most compact way to pack spheres (random close
packing) results in a maximum density of approximately 64 per cent. Although
these values seem to be robust, there is as yet no physical interpretation for
them. Here we present a statistical description of jammed states in which random 
close packing can be interpreted as the ground state of the ensemble of jammed
matter. Our approach demonstrates that random packings of hard spheres in three
dimensions cannot exceed a density limit of approximately 63.4 per cent. We
construct a phase diagram that provides a unified view of the hard-sphere packing
problem and illuminates various data, including the random-loose-packed state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06981 
PMID: 18509438 


591. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):626-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06987.

An infrared ring around the magnetar SGR 1900+14.

Wachter S(1), Ramirez-Ruiz E, Dwarkadas VV, Kouveliotou C, Granot J, Patel SK,
Figer D.

Author information: 
(1)Spitzer Science Center, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. wachter@ipac.caltech.edu

Magnetars are a special class of slowly rotating (period approximately 5-12 s)
neutron stars with extremely strong magnetic fields (>10(14 )G)--at least an
order of magnitude larger than those of the 'normal' radio pulsars. The potential
evolutionary links and differences between these two types of object are still
unknown; recent studies, however, have provided circumstantial evidence
connecting magnetars with very massive progenitor stars. Here we report the
discovery of an infrared elliptical ring or shell surrounding the magnetar SGR
1900+14. The appearance and energetics of the ring are difficult to interpret
within the framework of the progenitor's stellar mass loss or the subsequent
evolution of the supernova remnant. We suggest instead that a dust-free cavity
was produced in the magnetar environment by the giant flare emitted by the source
in August 1998. Considering the total energy released in the flare, the
theoretical dust-destruction radius matches well with the observed dimensions of 
the ring. We conclude that SGR 1900+14 is unambiguously associated with a cluster
of massive stars, thereby solidifying the link between magnetars and massive
stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06987 
PMID: 18509437 


592. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):620-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07008.

A microbial symbiosis factor prevents intestinal inflammatory disease.

Mazmanian SK(1), Round JL, Kasper DL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 
91125, USA. sarkis@caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):602-4.

Humans are colonized by multitudes of commensal organisms representing members of
five of the six kingdoms of life; however, our gastrointestinal tract provides
residence to both beneficial and potentially pathogenic microorganisms.
Imbalances in the composition of the bacterial microbiota, known as dysbiosis,
are postulated to be a major factor in human disorders such as inflammatory bowel
disease. We report here that the prominent human symbiont Bacteroides fragilis
protects animals from experimental colitis induced by Helicobacter hepaticus, a
commensal bacterium with pathogenic potential. This beneficial activity requires 
a single microbial molecule (polysaccharide A, PSA). In animals harbouring B.
fragilis not expressing PSA, H. hepaticus colonization leads to disease and
pro-inflammatory cytokine production in colonic tissues. Purified PSA
administered to animals is required to suppress pro-inflammatory interleukin-17
production by intestinal immune cells and also inhibits in vitro reactions in
cell cultures. Furthermore, PSA protects from inflammatory disease through a
functional requirement for interleukin-10-producing CD4+ T cells. These results
show that molecules of the bacterial microbiota can mediate the critical balance 
between health and disease. Harnessing the immunomodulatory capacity of symbiosis
factors such as PSA might potentially provide therapeutics for human inflammatory
disorders on the basis of entirely novel biological principles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07008 
PMID: 18509436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):609-14. doi: 10.1038/nature06954.

Sex ratio adjustment and kin discrimination in malaria parasites.

Reece SE(1), Drew DR, Gardner A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Evolutionary Biology, Ashworth Laboratories, School of Biological
Science, University of Edinburgh, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK.
sarah.reece@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):605-6.

Malaria parasites and related Apicomplexans are the causative agents of the some 
of the most serious infectious diseases of humans, companion animals, livestock
and wildlife. These parasites must undergo sexual reproduction to transmit from
vertebrate hosts to vectors, and their sex ratios are consistently female-biased.
Sex allocation theory, a cornerstone of evolutionary biology, is remarkably
successful at explaining female-biased sex ratios in multicellular taxa, but has 
proved controversial when applied to malaria parasites. Here we show that, as
predicted by theory, sex ratio is an important fitness-determining trait and
Plasmodium chabaudi parasites adjust their sex allocation in response to the
presence of unrelated conspecifics. This suggests that P. chabaudi parasites use 
kin discrimination to evaluate the genetic diversity of their infections, and
they adjust their behaviour in response to environmental cues. Malaria parasites 
provide a novel way to test evolutionary theory, and support the generality and
power of a darwinian approach.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06954 
PMCID: PMC3807728
PMID: 18509435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):672-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07013. Epub 2008 May 21.

CLEC5A is critical for dengue-virus-induced lethal disease.

Chen ST(1), Lin YL, Huang MT, Wu MF, Cheng SC, Lei HY, Lee CK, Chiou TW, Wong CH,
Hsieh SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department and Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, National Yang-Ming
University, Taipei 112, Taiwan.

Dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome, the most severe responses to
dengue virus (DV) infection, are characterized by plasma leakage (due to
increased vascular permeability) and low platelet counts. CLEC5A (C-type lectin
domain family 5, member A; also known as myeloid DAP12-associating lectin
(MDL-1)) contains a C-type lectin-like fold similar to the natural-killer T-cell 
C-type lectin domains and associates with a 12-kDa DNAX-activating protein
(DAP12) on myeloid cells. Here we show that CLEC5A interacts with the dengue
virion directly and thereby brings about DAP12 phosphorylation. The CLEC5A-DV
interaction does not result in viral entry but stimulates the release of
proinflammatory cytokines. Blockade of CLEC5A-DV interaction suppresses the
secretion of proinflammatory cytokines without affecting the release of
interferon-alpha, supporting the notion that CLEC5A acts as a signalling receptor
for proinflammatory cytokine release. Moreover, anti-CLEC5A monoclonal antibodies
inhibit DV-induced plasma leakage, as well as subcutaneous and vital-organ
haemorrhaging, and reduce the mortality of DV infection by about 50% in
STAT1-deficient mice. Our observation that blockade of CLEC5A-mediated signalling
attenuates the production of proinflammatory cytokines by macrophages infected
with DV (either alone or complexed with an enhancing antibody) offers a promising
strategy for alleviating tissue damage and increasing the survival of patients
suffering from dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome, and possibly 
even other virus-induced inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07013 
PMID: 18496526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):677-81. doi: 10.1038/nature06883. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Single-stranded DNA-binding protein hSSB1 is critical for genomic stability.

Richard DJ(1), Bolderson E, Cubeddu L, Wadsworth RI, Savage K, Sharma GG,
Nicolette ML, Tsvetanov S, McIlwraith MJ, Pandita RK, Takeda S, Hay RT, Gautier
J, West SC, Paull TT, Pandita TK, White MF, Khanna KK.

Author information: 
(1)Signal Transduction Laboratory, Queensland Institute of Medical Research,
Brisbane, Queensland 4029, Australia.

Single-strand DNA (ssDNA)-binding proteins (SSBs) are ubiquitous and essential
for a wide variety of DNA metabolic processes, including DNA replication,
recombination, DNA damage detection and repair. SSBs have multiple roles in
binding and sequestering ssDNA, detecting DNA damage, stimulating nucleases,
helicases and strand-exchange proteins, activating transcription and mediating
protein-protein interactions. In eukaryotes, the major SSB, replication protein A
(RPA), is a heterotrimer. Here we describe a second human SSB (hSSB1), with a
domain organization closer to the archaeal SSB than to RPA. Ataxia telangiectasia
mutated (ATM) kinase phosphorylates hSSB1 in response to DNA double-strand breaks
(DSBs). This phosphorylation event is required for DNA damage-induced
stabilization of hSSB1. Upon induction of DNA damage, hSSB1 accumulates in the
nucleus and forms distinct foci independent of cell-cycle phase. These foci
co-localize with other known repair proteins. In contrast to RPA, hSSB1 does not 
localize to replication foci in S-phase cells and hSSB1 deficiency does not
influence S-phase progression. Depletion of hSSB1 abrogates the cellular response
to DSBs, including activation of ATM and phosphorylation of ATM targets after
ionizing radiation. Cells deficient in hSSB1 exhibit increased radiosensitivity, 
defective checkpoint activation and enhanced genomic instability coupled with a
diminished capacity for DNA repair. These findings establish that hSSB1
influences diverse endpoints in the cellular DNA damage response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06883 
PMID: 18449195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):667-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06890. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Rapid cloning of high-affinity human monoclonal antibodies against influenza
virus.

Wrammert J(1), Smith K, Miller J, Langley WA, Kokko K, Larsen C, Zheng NY, Mays
I, Garman L, Helms C, James J, Air GM, Capra JD, Ahmed R, Wilson PC.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center and Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.

Pre-existing neutralizing antibody provides the first line of defence against
pathogens in general. For influenza virus, annual vaccinations are given to
maintain protective levels of antibody against the currently circulating strains.
Here we report that after booster vaccination there was a rapid and robust
influenza-specific IgG+ antibody-secreting plasma cell (ASC) response that peaked
at approximately day 7 and accounted for up to 6% of peripheral blood B cells.
These ASCs could be distinguished from influenza-specific IgG+ memory B cells
that peaked 14-21 days after vaccination and averaged 1% of all B cells.
Importantly, as much as 80% of ASCs purified at the peak of the response were
influenza specific. This ASC response was characterized by a highly restricted
B-cell receptor (BCR) repertoire that in some donors was dominated by only a few 
B-cell clones. This pauci-clonal response, however, showed extensive intraclonal 
diversification from accumulated somatic mutations. We used the immunoglobulin
variable regions isolated from sorted single ASCs to produce over 50 human
monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that bound to the three influenza vaccine strains
with high affinity. This strategy demonstrates that we can generate multiple
high-affinity mAbs from humans within a month after vaccination. The panel of
influenza-virus-specific human mAbs allowed us to address the issue of original
antigenic sin (OAS): the phenomenon where the induced antibody shows higher
affinity to a previously encountered influenza virus strain compared with the
virus strain present in the vaccine. However, we found that most of the
influenza-virus-specific mAbs showed the highest affinity for the current vaccine
strain. Thus, OAS does not seem to be a common occurrence in normal, healthy
adults receiving influenza vaccination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06890 
PMCID: PMC2515609
PMID: 18449194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):662-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06892. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Angiogenesis selectively requires the p110alpha isoform of PI3K to control
endothelial cell migration.

Graupera M(1), Guillermet-Guibert J, Foukas LC, Phng LK, Cain RJ, Salpekar A,
Pearce W, Meek S, Millan J, Cutillas PR, Smith AJ, Ridley AJ, Ruhrberg C,
Gerhardt H, Vanhaesebroeck B.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cell Signalling, Institute of Cancer, Queen Mary, University of
London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.

Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) signal downstream of multiple cell-surface
receptor types. Class IA PI3K isoforms couple to tyrosine kinases and consist of 
a p110 catalytic subunit (p110alpha, p110beta or p110delta), constitutively bound
to one of five distinct p85 regulatory subunits. PI3Ks have been implicated in
angiogenesis, but little is known about potential selectivity among the PI3K
isoforms and their mechanism of action in endothelial cells during angiogenesis
in vivo. Here we show that only p110alpha activity is essential for vascular
development. Ubiquitous or endothelial cell-specific inactivation of p110alpha
led to embryonic lethality at mid-gestation because of severe defects in
angiogenic sprouting and vascular remodelling. p110alpha exerts this critical
endothelial cell-autonomous function by regulating endothelial cell migration
through the small GTPase RhoA. p110alpha activity is particularly high in
endothelial cells and preferentially induced by tyrosine kinase ligands (such as 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A). In contrast, p110beta in
endothelial cells signals downstream of G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) ligands
such as SDF-1alpha, whereas p110delta is expressed at low level and contributes
only minimally to PI3K activity in endothelial cells. These results provide the
first in vivo evidence for p110-isoform selectivity in endothelial PI3K
signalling during angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06892 
PMID: 18449193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):682-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06875. Epub 2008 Apr 27.

HP1-beta mobilization promotes chromatin changes that initiate the DNA damage
response.

Ayoub N(1), Jeyasekharan AD, Bernal JA, Venkitaraman AR.

Author information: 
(1)The Medical Research Council Cancer Cell Unit, Hutchison/MRC Research Centre, 
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XZ, UK.

Minutes after DNA damage, the variant histone H2AX is phosphorylated by protein
kinases of the phosphoinositide kinase family, including ATM, ATR or DNA-PK.
Phosphorylated (gamma)-H2AX-which recruits molecules that sense or signal the
presence of DNA breaks, activating the response that leads to repair-is the
earliest known marker of chromosomal DNA breakage. Here we identify a dynamic
change in chromatin that promotes H2AX phosphorylation in mammalian cells. DNA
breaks swiftly mobilize heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1)-beta (also called CBX1), 
a chromatin factor bound to histone H3 methylated on lysine 9 (H3K9me). Local
changes in histone-tail modifications are not apparent. Instead, phosphorylation 
of HP1-beta on amino acid Thr 51 accompanies mobilization, releasing HP1-beta
from chromatin by disrupting hydrogen bonds that fold its chromodomain around
H3K9me. Inhibition of casein kinase 2 (CK2), an enzyme implicated in DNA damage
sensing and repair, suppresses Thr 51 phosphorylation and HP1-beta mobilization
in living cells. CK2 inhibition, or a constitutively chromatin-bound HP1-beta
mutant, diminishes H2AX phosphorylation. Our findings reveal an unrecognized
signalling cascade that helps to initiate the DNA damage response, altering
chromatin by modifying a histone-code mediator protein, HP1, but not the code
itself.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06875 
PMID: 18438399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):615-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06945. Epub 2008 Apr 16.

The genomic and epidemiological dynamics of human influenza A virus.

Rambaut A(1), Pybus OG, Nelson MI, Viboud C, Taubenberger JK, Holmes EC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh, Ashworth
Laboratories, Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK. a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk

The evolutionary interaction between influenza A virus and the human immune
system, manifest as 'antigenic drift' of the viral haemagglutinin, is one of the 
best described patterns in molecular evolution. However, little is known about
the genome-scale evolutionary dynamics of this pathogen. Similarly, how genomic
processes relate to global influenza epidemiology, in which the A/H3N2 and A/H1N1
subtypes co-circulate, is poorly understood. Here through an analysis of 1,302
complete viral genomes sampled from temperate populations in both hemispheres, we
show that the genomic evolution of influenza A virus is characterized by a
complex interplay between frequent reassortment and periodic selective sweeps.
The A/H3N2 and A/H1N1 subtypes exhibit different evolutionary dynamics, with
diverse lineages circulating in A/H1N1, indicative of weaker antigenic drift.
These results suggest a sink-source model of viral ecology in which new lineages 
are seeded from a persistent influenza reservoir, which we hypothesize to be
located in the tropics, to sink populations in temperate regions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06945 
PMCID: PMC2441973
PMID: 18418375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):657-61. doi: 10.1038/nature06928. Epub 2008 Apr 13.

Functional genomic screen reveals genes involved in lipid-droplet formation and
utilization.

Guo Y(1), Walther TC, Rao M, Stuurman N, Goshima G, Terayama K, Wong JS, Vale RD,
Walter P, Farese RV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Eukaryotic cells store neutral lipids in cytoplasmic lipid droplets enclosed in a
monolayer of phospholipids and associated proteins. These dynamic organelles
serve as the principal reservoirs for storing cellular energy and for the
building blocks for membrane lipids. Excessive lipid accumulation in cells is a
central feature of obesity, diabetes and atherosclerosis, yet remarkably little
is known about lipid-droplet cell biology. Here we show, by means of a
genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi) screen in Drosophila S2 cells that about 1.5%
of all genes function in lipid-droplet formation and regulation. The phenotypes
of the gene knockdowns sorted into five distinct phenotypic classes. Genes
encoding enzymes of phospholipid biosynthesis proved to be determinants of
lipid-droplet size and number, suggesting that the phospholipid composition of
the monolayer profoundly affects droplet morphology and lipid utilization. A
subset of the Arf1-COPI vesicular transport proteins also regulated droplet
morphology and lipid utilization, thereby identifying a previously unrecognized
function for this machinery. These phenotypes are conserved in mammalian cells,
suggesting that insights from these studies are likely to be central to our
understanding of human diseases involving excessive lipid storage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06928 
PMCID: PMC2734507
PMID: 18408709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):548-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06924.

Ubiquitin docking at the proteasome through a novel pleckstrin-homology domain
interaction.

Schreiner P(1), Chen X, Husnjak K, Randles L, Zhang N, Elsasser S, Finley D,
Dikic I, Walters KJ, Groll M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrated Protein Science at the Department Chemie, Lehrstuhl für 
Biochemie, Technische Universität München, Lichtenbergstrasse 4, D-85747
Garching, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):460-1.

Targeted protein degradation is largely performed by the ubiquitin-proteasome
pathway, in which substrate proteins are marked by covalently attached ubiquitin 
chains that mediate recognition by the proteasome. It is currently unclear how
the proteasome recognizes its substrates, as the only established ubiquitin
receptor intrinsic to the proteasome is Rpn10/S5a (ref. 1), which is not
essential for ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation in budding yeast. In the
accompanying manuscript we report that Rpn13 (refs 3-7), a component of the
nine-subunit proteasome base, functions as a ubiquitin receptor, complementing
its known role in docking de-ubiquitinating enzyme Uch37/UCHL5 (refs 4-6) to the 
proteasome. Here we merge crystallography and NMR data to describe the
ubiquitin-binding mechanism of Rpn13. We determine the structure of Rpn13 alone
and complexed with ubiquitin. The co-complex reveals a novel ubiquitin-binding
mode in which loops rather than secondary structural elements are used to capture
ubiquitin. Further support for the role of Rpn13 as a proteasomal ubiquitin
receptor is demonstrated by its ability to bind ubiquitin and proteasome subunit 
Rpn2/S1 simultaneously. Finally, we provide a model structure of Rpn13 complexed 
to diubiquitin, which provides insights into how Rpn13 as a ubiquitin receptor is
coupled to substrate deubiquitination by Uch37.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06924 
PMCID: PMC2825158
PMID: 18497827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):544-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06965.

Transcriptome-wide noise controls lineage choice in mammalian progenitor cells.

Chang HH(1), Hemberg M, Barahona M, Ingber DE, Huang S.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology Programme, Department of Pathology and Surgery, Children's
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Phenotypic cell-to-cell variability within clonal populations may be a
manifestation of 'gene expression noise', or it may reflect stable phenotypic
variants. Such 'non-genetic cell individuality' can arise from the slow
fluctuations of protein levels in mammalian cells. These fluctuations produce
persistent cell individuality, thereby rendering a clonal population
heterogeneous. However, it remains unknown whether this heterogeneity may account
for the stochasticity of cell fate decisions in stem cells. Here we show that in 
clonal populations of mouse haematopoietic progenitor cells, spontaneous
'outlier' cells with either extremely high or low expression levels of the stem
cell marker Sca-1 (also known as Ly6a; ref. 9) reconstitute the parental
distribution of Sca-1 but do so only after more than one week. This slow
relaxation is described by a gaussian mixture model that incorporates
noise-driven transitions between discrete subpopulations, suggesting hidden
multi-stability within one cell type. Despite clonality, the Sca-1 outliers had
distinct transcriptomes. Although their unique gene expression profiles
eventually reverted to that of the median cells, revealing an attractor state,
they lasted long enough to confer a greatly different proclivity for choosing
either the erythroid or the myeloid lineage. Preference in lineage choice was
associated with increased expression of lineage-specific transcription factors,
such as a >200-fold increase in Gata1 (ref. 10) among the erythroid-prone cells, 
or a >15-fold increased PU.1 (Sfpi1) (ref. 11) expression among myeloid-prone
cells. Thus, clonal heterogeneity of gene expression level is not due to
independent noise in the expression of individual genes, but reflects metastable 
states of a slowly fluctuating transcriptome that is distinct in individual cells
and may govern the reversible, stochastic priming of multipotent progenitor cells
in cell fate decision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06965 
PMCID: PMC5546414
PMID: 18497826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):519-23. doi: 10.1038/nature06968.

The ground state of embryonic stem cell self-renewal.

Ying QL(1), Wray J, Nichols J, Batlle-Morera L, Doble B, Woodgett J, Cohen P,
Smith A.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Department of Cell and
Neurobiology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, 1501
San Pablo Street, ZNI 529, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA. qying@keck.usc.edu

In the three decades since pluripotent mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells were first
described they have been derived and maintained by using various empirical
combinations of feeder cells, conditioned media, cytokines, growth factors,
hormones, fetal calf serum, and serum extracts. Consequently ES-cell self-renewal
is generally considered to be dependent on multifactorial stimulation of
dedicated transcriptional circuitries, pre-eminent among which is the activation 
of STAT3 by cytokines (ref. 8). Here we show, however, that extrinsic stimuli are
dispensable for the derivation, propagation and pluripotency of ES cells.
Self-renewal is enabled by the elimination of differentiation-inducing signalling
from mitogen-activated protein kinase. Additional inhibition of glycogen synthase
kinase 3 consolidates biosynthetic capacity and suppresses residual
differentiation. Complete bypass of cytokine signalling is confirmed by isolating
ES cells genetically devoid of STAT3. These findings reveal that ES cells have an
innate programme for self-replication that does not require extrinsic
instruction. This property may account for their latent tumorigenicity. The
delineation of minimal requirements for self-renewal now provides a defined
platform for the precise description and dissection of the pluripotent state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06968 
PMCID: PMC5328678
PMID: 18497825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):515-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06865.

A stem batrachian from the Early Permian of Texas and the origin of frogs and
salamanders.

Anderson JS(1), Reisz RR, Scott D, Fröbisch NB, Sumida SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Biology and Experimental Medicine, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Calgary, 3330 Hospital Drive, Calgary, Alberta
T2N 4N1, Canada. janders@ucalgary.ca

The origin of extant amphibians (Lissamphibia: frogs, salamanders and caecilians)
is one of the most controversial questions in vertebrate evolution, owing to
large morphological and temporal gaps in the fossil record. Current discussions
focus on three competing hypotheses: a monophyletic origin within either
Temnospondyli or Lepospondyli, or a polyphyletic origin with frogs and
salamanders arising among temnospondyls and caecilians among the lepospondyls.
Recent molecular analyses are also controversial, with estimations for the
batrachian (frog-salamander) divergence significantly older than the
palaeontological evidence supports. Here we report the discovery of an amphibamid
temnospondyl from the Early Permian of Texas that bridges the gap between other
Palaeozoic amphibians and the earliest known salientians and caudatans from the
Mesozoic. The presence of a mosaic of salientian and caudatan characters in this 
small fossil makes it a key taxon close to the batrachian (frog and salamander)
divergence. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the batrachian divergence
occurred in the Middle Permian, rather than the late Carboniferous as recently
estimated using molecular clocks, but the divergence with caecilians corresponds 
to the deep split between temnospondyls and lepospondyls, which is congruent with
the molecular estimates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06865 
PMID: 18497824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):511-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06989.

Evidence for seismogenic fracture of silicic magma.

Tuffen H(1), Smith R, Sammonds PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science, Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, 
UK. h.tuffen@lancaster.ac.uk

It has long been assumed that seismogenic faulting is confined to cool, brittle
rocks, with a temperature upper limit of approximately 600 degrees C (ref. 1).
This thinking underpins our understanding of volcanic earthquakes, which are
assumed to occur in cold rocks surrounding moving magma. However, the recent
discovery of abundant brittle-ductile fault textures in silicic lavas has led to 
the counter-intuitive hypothesis that seismic events may be triggered by fracture
and faulting within the erupting magma itself. This hypothesis is supported by
recent observations of growing lava domes, where microearthquake swarms have
coincided with the emplacement of gouge-covered lava spines, leading to models of
seismogenic stick-slip along shallow shear zones in the magma. But can fracturing
or faulting in high-temperature, eruptible magma really generate measurable
seismic events? Here we deform high-temperature silica-rich magmas under
simulated volcanic conditions in order to test the hypothesis that
high-temperature magma fracture is seismogenic. The acoustic emissions recorded
during experiments show that seismogenic rupture may occur in both crystal-rich
and crystal-free silicic magmas at eruptive temperatures, extending the range of 
known conditions for seismogenic faulting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06989 
PMID: 18497823 


606. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):507-10. doi: 10.1038/nature06980.

Seismogenic lavas and explosive eruption forecasting.

Lavallée Y(1), Meredith PG, Dingwell DB, Hess KU, Wassermann J, Cordonnier B,
Gerik A, Kruhl JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Ludwig-Maximilians University,
80333 Munich, Germany. lavallee@min.uni-muenchen.de

Volcanic dome-building episodes commonly exhibit acceleration in both effusive
discharge rate and seismicity before explosive eruptions. This should enable the 
application of material failure forecasting methods to eruption forecasting. To
date, such methods have been based exclusively on the seismicity of the country
rock. It is clear, however, that the rheology and deformation rate of the lava
ultimately dictate eruption style. The highly crystalline lavas involved in these
eruptions are pseudoplastic fluids that exhibit a strong component of shear
thinning as their deformation accelerates across the ductile to brittle
transition. Thus, understanding the nature of the ductile-brittle transition in
dome lavas may well hold the key to an accurate description of dome growth and
stability. Here we present the results of rheological experiments with continuous
microseismic monitoring, which reveal that dome lavas are seismogenic and that
the character of the seismicity changes markedly across the ductile-brittle
transition until complete brittle failure occurs at high strain rates. We
conclude that magma seismicity, combined with failure forecasting methods, could 
potentially be applied successfully to dome-building eruptions for volcanic
forecasting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06980 
PMID: 18497822 


607. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):504-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06959.

Triple oxygen isotope evidence for elevated CO2 levels after a Neoproterozoic
glaciation.

Bao H(1), Lyons JR, Zhou C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, E235 Howe-Russell Geoscience Complex,
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA. bao@lsu.edu

Understanding the composition of the atmosphere over geological time is critical 
to understanding the history of the Earth system, as the atmosphere is closely
linked to the lithosphere, hydrosphere and biosphere. Although much of the
history of the lithosphere and hydrosphere is contained in rock and mineral
records, corresponding information about the atmosphere is scarce and elusive
owing to the lack of direct records. Geologists have used sedimentary minerals,
fossils and geochemical models to place constraints on the concentrations of
carbon dioxide, oxygen or methane in the past. Here we show that the triple
oxygen isotope composition of sulphate from ancient evaporites and barites shows 
variable negative oxygen-17 isotope anomalies over the past 750 million years. We
propose that these anomalies track those of atmospheric oxygen and in turn
reflect the partial pressure of carbon dioxide (P(CO2)) in the past through a
photochemical reaction network linking stratospheric ozone to carbon dioxide and 
to oxygen. Our results suggest that P(CO2) was much higher in the early Cambrian 
than in younger eras, agreeing with previous modelling results. We also find that
the (17)O isotope anomalies of barites from Marinoan (approximately 635 million
years ago) cap carbonates display a distinct negative spike (around -0.70 per
thousand), suggesting that by the time barite was precipitating in the immediate 
aftermath of a Neoproterozoic global glaciation, the P(CO2) was at its highest
level in the past 750 million years. Our finding is consistent with the 'snowball
Earth' hypothesis and/or a massive methane release after the Marinoan glaciation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06959 
PMID: 18497821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):499-503. doi: 10.1038/nature06931.

Gelation of particles with short-range attraction.

Lu PJ(1), Zaccarelli E, Ciulla F, Schofield AB, Sciortino F, Weitz DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
plu@fas.harvard.edu

Nanoscale or colloidal particles are important in many realms of science and
technology. They can dramatically change the properties of materials, imparting
solid-like behaviour to a wide variety of complex fluids. This behaviour arises
when particles aggregate to form mesoscopic clusters and networks. The essential 
component leading to aggregation is an interparticle attraction, which can be
generated by many physical and chemical mechanisms. In the limit of irreversible 
aggregation, infinitely strong interparticle bonds lead to diffusion-limited
cluster aggregation (DLCA). This is understood as a purely kinetic phenomenon
that can form solid-like gels at arbitrarily low particle volume fraction. Far
more important technologically are systems with weaker attractions, where gel
formation requires higher volume fractions. Numerous scenarios for gelation have 
been proposed, including DLCA, kinetic or dynamic arrest, phase separation,
percolation and jamming. No consensus has emerged and, despite its ubiquity and
significance, gelation is far from understood-even the location of the gelation
phase boundary is not agreed on. Here we report experiments showing that gelation
of spherical particles with isotropic, short-range attractions is initiated by
spinodal decomposition; this thermodynamic instability triggers the formation of 
density fluctuations, leading to spanning clusters that dynamically arrest to
create a gel. This simple picture of gelation does not depend on microscopic
system-specific details, and should thus apply broadly to any particle system
with short-range attractions. Our results suggest that gelation-often considered 
a purely kinetic phenomenon-is in fact a direct consequence of equilibrium
liquid-gas phase separation. Without exception, we observe gelation in all of our
samples predicted by theory and simulation to phase-separate; this suggests that 
it is phase separation, not percolation, that corresponds to gelation in models
for attractive spheres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06931 
PMID: 18497820 


609. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):495-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06948.

A Lévy flight for light.

Barthelemy P(1), Bertolotti J, Wiersma DS.

Author information: 
(1)European Laboratory for Nonlinear Spectroscopy and INFM-BEC, via Nello Carrara
1, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Florence, Italy.

A random walk is a stochastic process in which particles or waves travel along
random trajectories. The first application of a random walk was in the
description of particle motion in a fluid (brownian motion); now it is a central 
concept in statistical physics, describing transport phenomena such as heat,
sound and light diffusion. Lévy flights are a particular class of generalized
random walk in which the step lengths during the walk are described by a
'heavy-tailed' probability distribution. They can describe all stochastic
processes that are scale invariant. Lévy flights have accordingly turned out to
be applicable to a diverse range of fields, describing animal foraging patterns, 
the distribution of human travel and even some aspects of earthquake behaviour.
Transport based on Lévy flights has been extensively studied numerically, but
experimental work has been limited and, to date, it has not seemed possible to
observe and study Lévy transport in actual materials. For example, experimental
work on heat, sound, and light diffusion is generally limited to normal,
brownian, diffusion. Here we show that it is possible to engineer an optical
material in which light waves perform a Lévy flight. The key parameters that
determine the transport behaviour can be easily tuned, making this an ideal
experimental system in which to study Lévy flights in a controlled way. The
development of a material in which the diffusive transport of light is governed
by Lévy statistics might even permit the development of new optical
functionalities that go beyond normal light diffusion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06948 
PMID: 18497819 


610. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):489-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06971.

Mechanism of homologous recombination from the RecA-ssDNA/dsDNA structures.

Chen Z(1), Yang H, Pavletich NP.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):463-6.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2016 Jun;17(6):333.

The RecA family of ATPases mediates homologous recombination, a reaction
essential for maintaining genomic integrity and for generating genetic diversity.
RecA, ATP and single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) form a helical filament that binds to
double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), searches for homology, and then catalyses the
exchange of the complementary strand, producing a new heteroduplex. Here we have 
solved the crystal structures of the Escherichia coli RecA-ssDNA and
RecA-heteroduplex filaments. They show that ssDNA and ATP bind to RecA-RecA
interfaces cooperatively, explaining the ATP dependency of DNA binding. The ATP
gamma-phosphate is sensed across the RecA-RecA interface by two lysine residues
that also stimulate ATP hydrolysis, providing a mechanism for DNA release. The
DNA is underwound and stretched globally, but locally it adopts a B-DNA-like
conformation that restricts the homology search to Watson-Crick-type base
pairing. The complementary strand interacts primarily through base pairing,
making heteroduplex formation strictly dependent on complementarity. The
underwound, stretched filament conformation probably evolved to destabilize the
donor duplex, freeing the complementary strand for homology sampling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06971 
PMID: 18497818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):481-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06926.

Proteasome subunit Rpn13 is a novel ubiquitin receptor.

Husnjak K(1), Elsasser S, Zhang N, Chen X, Randles L, Shi Y, Hofmann K, Walters
KJ, Finley D, Dikic I.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry II and Cluster of Excellence Macromolecular
Complexes, Goethe University, Theodor-Stern-Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt (Main),
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):460-1.

Proteasomal receptors that recognize ubiquitin chains attached to substrates are 
key mediators of selective protein degradation in eukaryotes. Here we report the 
identification of a new ubiquitin receptor, Rpn13/ARM1, a known component of the 
proteasome. Rpn13 binds ubiquitin through a conserved amino-terminal region
termed the pleckstrin-like receptor for ubiquitin (Pru) domain, which binds
K48-linked diubiquitin with an affinity of approximately 90 nM. Like proteasomal 
ubiquitin receptor Rpn10/S5a, Rpn13 also binds ubiquitin-like (UBL) domains of
UBL-ubiquitin-associated (UBA) proteins. In yeast, a synthetic phenotype results 
when specific mutations of the ubiquitin binding sites of Rpn10 and Rpn13 are
combined, indicating functional linkage between these ubiquitin receptors.
Because Rpn13 is also the proteasomal receptor for Uch37, a deubiquitinating
enzyme, our findings suggest a coupling of chain recognition and disassembly at
the proteasome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06926 
PMCID: PMC2839886
PMID: 18497817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):475-80. doi: 10.1038/nature06952.

Mechanism of shape determination in motile cells.

Keren K(1), Pincus Z, Allen GM, Barnhart EL, Marriott G, Mogilner A, Theriot JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Technion- Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa
32000, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):461-2.

The shape of motile cells is determined by many dynamic processes spanning
several orders of magnitude in space and time, from local polymerization of actin
monomers at subsecond timescales to global, cell-scale geometry that may persist 
for hours. Understanding the mechanism of shape determination in cells has proved
to be extremely challenging due to the numerous components involved and the
complexity of their interactions. Here we harness the natural phenotypic
variability in a large population of motile epithelial keratocytes from fish
(Hypsophrys nicaraguensis) to reveal mechanisms of shape determination. We find
that the cells inhabit a low-dimensional, highly correlated spectrum of possible 
functional states. We further show that a model of actin network treadmilling in 
an inextensible membrane bag can quantitatively recapitulate this spectrum and
predict both cell shape and speed. Our model provides a simple biochemical and
biophysical basis for the observed morphology and behaviour of motile cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06952 
PMCID: PMC2877812
PMID: 18497816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):469-74. doi: 10.1038/nature06997.

An extremely luminous X-ray outburst at the birth of a supernova.

Soderberg AM(1), Berger E, Page KL, Schady P, Parrent J, Pooley D, Wang XY, Ofek 
EO, Cucchiara A, Rau A, Waxman E, Simon JD, Bock DC, Milne PA, Page MJ, Barentine
JC, Barthelmy SD, Beardmore AP, Bietenholz MF, Brown P, Burrows A, Burrows DN,
Bryngelson G, Cenko SB, Chandra P, Cummings JR, Fox DB, Gal-Yam A, Gehrels N,
Immler S, Kasliwal M, Kong AK, Krimm HA, Kulkarni SR, Maccarone TJ, Mészáros P,
Nakar E, O'Brien PT, Overzier RA, de Pasquale M, Racusin J, Rea N, York DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astrophysical Sciences, Princeton University, Ivy Lane,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA. alicia@astro.princeton.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Jul 10;454(7201):246. Byrngelson, G [corrected to Bryngelson, G].

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):462-3.

Massive stars end their short lives in spectacular explosions--supernovae--that
synthesize new elements and drive galaxy evolution. Historically, supernovae were
discovered mainly through their 'delayed' optical light (some days after the
burst of neutrinos that marks the actual event), preventing observations in the
first moments following the explosion. As a result, the progenitors of some
supernovae and the events leading up to their violent demise remain intensely
debated. Here we report the serendipitous discovery of a supernova at the time of
the explosion, marked by an extremely luminous X-ray outburst. We attribute the
outburst to the 'break-out' of the supernova shock wave from the progenitor star,
and show that the inferred rate of such events agrees with that of all
core-collapse supernovae. We predict that future wide-field X-ray surveys will
catch each year hundreds of supernovae in the act of exploding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06997 
PMID: 18497815 


614. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature06933. Epub 2008 May 7.

Multi-genetic events collaboratively contribute to Pten-null leukaemia stem-cell 
formation.

Guo W(1), Lasky JL, Chang CJ, Mosessian S, Lewis X, Xiao Y, Yeh JE, Chen JY,
Iruela-Arispe ML, Varella-Garcia M, Wu H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, University of California,
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Cancer stem cells, which share many common properties and regulatory machineries 
with normal stem cells, have recently been proposed to be responsible for
tumorigenesis and to contribute to cancer resistance. The main challenges in
cancer biology are to identify cancer stem cells and to define the molecular
events required for transforming normal cells to cancer stem cells. Here we show 
that Pten deletion in mouse haematopoietic stem cells leads to a
myeloproliferative disorder, followed by acute T-lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL).
Self-renewable leukaemia stem cells (LSCs) are enriched in the
c-Kit(mid)CD3(+)Lin(-) compartment, where unphosphorylated beta-catenin is
significantly increased. Conditional ablation of one allele of the beta-catenin
gene substantially decreases the incidence and delays the occurrence of T-ALL
caused by Pten loss, indicating that activation of the beta-catenin pathway may
contribute to the formation or expansion of the LSC population. Moreover, a
recurring chromosomal translocation, T(14;15), results in aberrant overexpression
of the c-myc oncogene in c-Kit(mid)CD3(+)Lin(-) LSCs and CD3(+) leukaemic blasts,
recapitulating a subset of human T-ALL. No alterations in Notch1 signalling are
detected in this model, suggesting that Pten inactivation and c-myc
overexpression may substitute functionally for Notch1 abnormalities, leading to
T-ALL development. Our study indicates that multiple genetic or molecular
alterations contribute cooperatively to LSC transformation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06933 
PMCID: PMC2840044
PMID: 18463637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):553-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06903. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

A novel route for ATP acquisition by the remnant mitochondria of Encephalitozoon 
cuniculi.

Tsaousis AD(1), Kunji ER, Goldberg AV, Lucocq JM, Hirt RP, Embley TM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences, Catherine Cookson Building,
Framlington Place, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

Mitochondria use transport proteins of the eukaryotic mitochondrial carrier
family (MCF) to mediate the exchange of diverse substrates, including ATP, with
the host cell cytosol. According to classical endosymbiosis theory, insertion of 
a host-nuclear-encoded MCF transporter into the protomitochondrion was the key
step that allowed the host cell to harvest ATP from the enslaved endosymbiont.
Notably the genome of the microsporidian Encephalitozoon cuniculi has lost all of
its genes for MCF proteins. This raises the question of how the recently
discovered microsporidian remnant mitochondrion, called a mitosome, acquires ATP 
to support protein import and other predicted ATP-dependent activities. The E.
cuniculi genome does contain four genes for an unrelated type of nucleotide
transporter used by plastids and bacterial intracellular parasites, such as
Rickettsia and Chlamydia, to import ATP from the cytosol of their eukaryotic host
cells. The inference is that E. cuniculi also uses these proteins to steal ATP
from its eukaryotic host to sustain its lifestyle as an obligate intracellular
parasite. Here we show that, consistent with this hypothesis, all four E.
cuniculi transporters can transport ATP, and three of them are expressed on the
surface of the parasite when it is living inside host cells. The fourth
transporter co-locates with mitochondrial Hsp70 to the E. cuniculi mitosome.
Thus, uniquely among eukaryotes, the traditional relationship between
mitochondrion and host has been subverted in E. cuniculi, by reductive evolution 
and analogous gene replacement. Instead of the mitosome providing the parasite
cytosol with ATP, the parasite cytosol now seems to provide ATP for the
organelle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06903 
PMID: 18449191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06894. Epub 2008 Apr 23.

Human cardiovascular progenitor cells develop from a KDR+
embryonic-stem-cell-derived population.

Yang L(1), Soonpaa MH, Adler ED, Roepke TK, Kattman SJ, Kennedy M, Henckaerts E, 
Bonham K, Abbott GW, Linden RM, Field LJ, Keller GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gene and Cell Medicine, The Black Family Stem Cell Institute,
Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 1425 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10029,
USA.

The functional heart is comprised of distinct mesoderm-derived lineages including
cardiomyocytes, endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells. Studies in
the mouse embryo and the mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation model have
provided evidence indicating that these three lineages develop from a common
Flk-1(+) (kinase insert domain protein receptor, also known as Kdr)
cardiovascular progenitor that represents one of the earliest stages in mesoderm 
specification to the cardiovascular lineages. To determine whether a comparable
progenitor is present during human cardiogenesis, we analysed the development of 
the cardiovascular lineages in human embryonic stem cell differentiation
cultures. Here we show that after induction with combinations of activin A, bone 
morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, also known 
as FGF2), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, also known as VEGFA) and
dickkopf homolog 1 (DKK1) in serum-free media, human embryonic-stem-cell-derived 
embryoid bodies generate a KDR(low)/C-KIT(CD117)(neg) population that displays
cardiac, endothelial and vascular smooth muscle potential in vitro and, after
transplantation, in vivo. When plated in monolayer cultures, these
KDR(low)/C-KIT(neg) cells differentiate to generate populations consisting of
greater than 50% contracting cardiomyocytes. Populations derived from the
KDR(low)/C-KIT(neg) fraction give rise to colonies that contain all three
lineages when plated in methylcellulose cultures. Results from limiting dilution 
studies and cell-mixing experiments support the interpretation that these
colonies are clones, indicating that they develop from a cardiovascular
colony-forming cell. Together, these findings identify a human cardiovascular
progenitor that defines one of the earliest stages of human cardiac development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06894 
PMID: 18432194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):534-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06904. Epub 2008 Apr 10.

Pseudogene-derived small interfering RNAs regulate gene expression in mouse
oocytes.

Tam OH(1), Aravin AA, Stein P, Girard A, Murchison EP, Cheloufi S, Hodges E,
Anger M, Sachidanandam R, Schultz RM, Hannon GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Watson School of Biological Sciences and Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724,
USA.

Pseudogenes populate the mammalian genome as remnants of artefactual
incorporation of coding messenger RNAs into transposon pathways. Here we show
that a subset of pseudogenes generates endogenous small interfering RNAs
(endo-siRNAs) in mouse oocytes. These endo-siRNAs are often processed from
double-stranded RNAs formed by hybridization of spliced transcripts from
protein-coding genes to antisense transcripts from homologous pseudogenes. An
inverted repeat pseudogene can also generate abundant small RNAs directly. A
second class of endo-siRNAs may enforce repression of mobile genetic elements,
acting together with Piwi-interacting RNAs. Loss of Dicer, a protein integral to 
small RNA production, increases expression of endo-siRNA targets, demonstrating
their regulatory activity. Our findings indicate a function for pseudogenes in
regulating gene expression by means of the RNA interference pathway and may, in
part, explain the evolutionary pressure to conserve argonaute-mediated catalysis 
in mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06904 
PMCID: PMC2981145
PMID: 18404147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 2008 May 22;453(7194):539-43. doi: 10.1038/nature06908. Epub 2008 Apr 10.

Endogenous siRNAs from naturally formed dsRNAs regulate transcripts in mouse
oocytes.

Watanabe T(1), Totoki Y, Toyoda A, Kaneda M, Kuramochi-Miyagawa S, Obata Y, Chiba
H, Kohara Y, Kono T, Nakano T, Surani MA, Sakaki Y, Sasaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Department of Integrated Genetics, National
Institute of Genetics, Research Organization of Information and Systems, Mishima 
411-8540, Japan. toshwata@lab.nig.ac.jp

RNA interference (RNAi) is a mechanism by which double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs)
suppress specific transcripts in a sequence-dependent manner. dsRNAs are
processed by Dicer to 21-24-nucleotide small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and then
incorporated into the argonaute (Ago) proteins. Gene regulation by endogenous
siRNAs has been observed only in organisms possessing RNA-dependent RNA
polymerase (RdRP). In mammals, where no RdRP activity has been found, biogenesis 
and function of endogenous siRNAs remain largely unknown. Here we show, using
mouse oocytes, that endogenous siRNAs are derived from naturally occurring dsRNAs
and have roles in the regulation of gene expression. By means of deep sequencing,
we identify a large number of both approximately 25-27-nucleotide
Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) and approximately 21-nucleotide siRNAs
corresponding to messenger RNAs or retrotransposons in growing oocytes. piRNAs
are bound to Mili and have a role in the regulation of retrotransposons. siRNAs
are exclusively mapped to retrotransposons or other genomic regions that produce 
transcripts capable of forming dsRNA structures. Inverted repeat structures,
bidirectional transcription and antisense transcripts from various loci are
sources of the dsRNAs. Some precursor transcripts of siRNAs are derived from
expressed pseudogenes, indicating that one role of pseudogenes is to adjust the
level of the founding source mRNA through RNAi. Loss of Dicer or Ago2 results in 
decreased levels of siRNAs and increased levels of retrotransposon and
protein-coding transcripts complementary to the siRNAs. Thus, the RNAi pathway
regulates both protein-coding transcripts and retrotransposons in mouse oocytes. 
Our results reveal a role for endogenous siRNAs in mammalian oocytes and show
that organisms lacking RdRP activity can produce functional endogenous siRNAs
from naturally occurring dsRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06908 
PMID: 18404146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):383-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06950.

Orbital and millennial-scale features of atmospheric CH4 over the past 800,000
years.

Loulergue L(1), Schilt A, Spahni R, Masson-Delmotte V, Blunier T, Lemieux B,
Barnola JM, Raynaud D, Stocker TF, Chappellaz J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Glaciologie et Géophysique de l'Environnement, CNRS-Université 
Joseph Fourier Grenoble, 54 Rue Molière, 38402 St Martin d'Hères, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):291-2.

Atmospheric methane is an important greenhouse gas and a sensitive indicator of
climate change and millennial-scale temperature variability. Its concentrations
over the past 650,000 years have varied between approximately 350 and
approximately 800 parts per 10(9) by volume (p.p.b.v.) during glacial and
interglacial periods, respectively. In comparison, present-day methane levels of 
approximately 1,770 p.p.b.v. have been reported. Insights into the external
forcing factors and internal feedbacks controlling atmospheric methane are
essential for predicting the methane budget in a warmer world. Here we present a 
detailed atmospheric methane record from the EPICA Dome C ice core that extends
the history of this greenhouse gas to 800,000 yr before present. The average time
resolution of the new data is approximately 380 yr and permits the identification
of orbital and millennial-scale features. Spectral analyses indicate that the
long-term variability in atmospheric methane levels is dominated by approximately
100,000 yr glacial-interglacial cycles up to approximately 400,000 yr ago with an
increasing contribution of the precessional component during the four more recent
climatic cycles. We suggest that changes in the strength of tropical methane
sources and sinks (wetlands, atmospheric oxidation), possibly influenced by
changes in monsoon systems and the position of the intertropical convergence
zone, controlled the atmospheric methane budget, with an additional source input 
during major terminations as the retreat of the northern ice sheet allowed higher
methane emissions from extending periglacial wetlands. Millennial-scale changes
in methane levels identified in our record as being associated with Antarctic
isotope maxima events are indicative of ubiquitous millennial-scale temperature
variability during the past eight glacial cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06950 
PMID: 18480822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):379-82. doi: 10.1038/nature06949.

High-resolution carbon dioxide concentration record 650,000-800,000 years before 
present.

Lüthi D(1), Le Floch M, Bereiter B, Blunier T, Barnola JM, Siegenthaler U,
Raynaud D, Jouzel J, Fischer H, Kawamura K, Stocker TF.

Author information: 
(1)Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern,
Sidlerstrasse 5, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland. luethi@climate.unibe.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):291-2.

Changes in past atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations can be determined by
measuring the composition of air trapped in ice cores from Antarctica. So far,
the Antarctic Vostok and EPICA Dome C ice cores have provided a composite record 
of atmospheric carbon dioxide levels over the past 650,000 years. Here we present
results of the lowest 200 m of the Dome C ice core, extending the record of
atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration by two complete glacial cycles to
800,000 yr before present. From previously published data and the present work,
we find that atmospheric carbon dioxide is strongly correlated with Antarctic
temperature throughout eight glacial cycles but with significantly lower
concentrations between 650,000 and 750,000 yr before present. Carbon dioxide
levels are below 180 parts per million by volume (p.p.m.v.) for a period of 3,000
yr during Marine Isotope Stage 16, possibly reflecting more pronounced oceanic
carbon storage. We report the lowest carbon dioxide concentration measured in an 
ice core, which extends the pre-industrial range of carbon dioxide concentrations
during the late Quaternary by about 10 p.p.m.v. to 172-300 p.p.m.v.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06949 
PMID: 18480821 


621. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06979.

A GaAs polariton light-emitting diode operating near room temperature.

Tsintzos SI(1), Pelekanos NT, Konstantinidis G, Hatzopoulos Z, Savvidis PG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science & Technology, University of Crete, PO Box
2208, 71003 Heraklion, Crete, Greece.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):297-8.

The increasing ability to control light-matter interactions at the nanometre
scale has improved the performance of semiconductor lasers in the past decade.
The ultimate optimization is realized in semiconductor microcavities, in which
strong coupling between quantum-well excitons and cavity photons gives rise to
hybrid half-light/half-matter polariton quasiparticles. The unique properties of 
polaritons-such as stimulated scattering, parametric amplification, lasing,
condensation and superfluidity-are believed to provide the basis for a new
generation of polariton emitters and semiconductor lasers. Until now, polariton
lasing and nonlinearities have only been demonstrated in optical experiments,
which have shown the potential to reduce lasing thresholds by two orders of
magnitude compared to conventional semiconductor lasers. Here we report an
experimental realization of an electrically pumped semiconductor polariton
light-emitting device, which emits directly from polariton states at a
temperature of 235 K. Polariton electroluminescence data reveal characteristic
anticrossing between exciton and cavity modes, a clear signature of the strong
coupling regime. These findings represent a substantial step towards the
realization of ultra-efficient polaritonic devices with unprecedented
characteristics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06979 
PMID: 18480820 


622. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):368-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06911.

True polar wander on Europa from global-scale small-circle depressions.

Schenk P(1), Matsuyama I, Nimmo F.

Author information: 
(1)Lunar and Planetary Institute, Houston, Texas 77058, USA. schenk@lpi.usra.edu

The tectonic patterns and stress history of Europa are exceedingly complex and
many large-scale features remain unexplained. True polar wander, involving
reorientation of Europa's floating outer ice shell about the tidal axis with
Jupiter, has been proposed as a possible explanation for some of the features.
This mechanism is possible if the icy shell is latitudinally variable in
thickness and decoupled from the rocky interior. It would impose high stress
levels on the shell, leading to predictable fracture patterns. No satisfactory
match to global-scale features has hitherto been found for polar wander stress
patterns. Here we describe broad arcuate troughs and depressions on Europa that
do not fit other proposed stress mechanisms in their current position. Using
imaging from three spacecraft, we have mapped two global-scale organized
concentric antipodal sets of arcuate troughs up to hundreds of kilometres long
and 300 m to approximately 1.5 km deep. An excellent match to these features is
found with stresses caused by an episode of approximately 80 degrees true polar
wander. These depressions also appear to be geographically related to other
large-scale bright and dark lineaments, suggesting that many of Europa's tectonic
patterns may also be related to true polar wander.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06911 
PMID: 18480819 


623. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):363-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06925.

Crystal structure of squid rhodopsin.

Murakami M(1), Kouyama T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya
464-8602, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):292-3.

Invertebrate phototransduction uses an inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate signalling
cascade in which photoactivated rhodopsin stimulates a G(q)-type G protein, that 
is, a class of G protein that stimulates membrane-bound phospholipase Cbeta. The 
same cascade is used by many G-protein-coupled receptors, indicating that
invertebrate rhodopsin is a prototypical member. Here we report the crystal
structure of squid (Todarodes pacificus) rhodopsin at 2.5 A resolution. Among
seven transmembrane alpha-helices, helices V and VI extend into the cytoplasmic
medium and, together with two cytoplasmic helices, they form a rigid protrusion
from the membrane surface. This peculiar structure, which is not seen in bovine
rhodopsin, seems to be crucial for the recognition of G(q)-type G proteins. The
retinal Schiff base forms a hydrogen bond to Asn 87 or Tyr 111; it is far from
the putative counterion Glu 180. In the crystal, a tight association is formed
between the amino-terminal polypeptides of neighbouring monomers; this
intermembrane dimerization may be responsible for the organization of hexagonally
packed microvillar membranes in the photoreceptor rhabdom.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06925 
PMID: 18480818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):353-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06937.

Attributing physical and biological impacts to anthropogenic climate change.

Rosenzweig C(1), Karoly D, Vicarelli M, Neofotis P, Wu Q, Casassa G, Menzel A,
Root TL, Estrella N, Seguin B, Tryjanowski P, Liu C, Rawlins S, Imeson A.

Author information: 
(1)NASA/Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia Center for Climate
Systems Research, 2800 Broadway, New York, New York 10025, USA.
crosenzweig@giss.nasa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):296-7.
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):720.

Significant changes in physical and biological systems are occurring on all
continents and in most oceans, with a concentration of available data in Europe
and North America. Most of these changes are in the direction expected with
warming temperature. Here we show that these changes in natural systems since at 
least 1970 are occurring in regions of observed temperature increases, and that
these temperature increases at continental scales cannot be explained by natural 
climate variations alone. Given the conclusions from the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report that most of the observed
increase in global average temperatures since the mid-twentieth century is very
likely to be due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas
concentrations, and furthermore that it is likely that there has been significant
anthropogenic warming over the past 50 years averaged over each continent except 
Antarctica, we conclude that anthropogenic climate change is having a significant
impact on physical and biological systems globally and in some continents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06937 
PMID: 18480817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):345-51. doi: 10.1038/nature07043.

Imaging stem-cell-driven regeneration in mammals.

Schroeder T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Stem Cell Research, Helmholtz Zentrum München - German Research
Center for Environmental Health, Ingolstädter Landstrasse 1, D-85764 Neuherberg, 
Germany. timm.schroeder@helmholtz-muenchen.de

The ability to observe biological processes continuously, instead of at discrete 
time points, holds great promise for the study of tissue regeneration. Ideally,
single cells would be followed continuously within large tissue volumes (such as 
organs) over long periods of time. Technical limitations, however, preclude such 
studies. But, recently, there have been improvements in imaging technologies and 
biologically compatible labelling agents. Together with new insights into the
molecular characteristics of stem cells, which are ultimately responsible for the
regenerative potential of all tissues, researchers are now much closer to
applying single-cell imaging approaches to research into regeneration and its
clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07043 
PMID: 18480816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):338-44. doi: 10.1038/nature07042.

A chemical approach to stem-cell biology and regenerative medicine.

Xu Y(1), Shi Y, Ding S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

An improved understanding of stem-cell and regenerative biology, as well as a
better control of stem-cell fate, is likely to produce treatments for many
devastating diseases and injuries. Chemical approaches are starting to have an
increasingly important role in this young field. Attention has focused on
chemical approaches that allow the precise manipulation of cells in vitro to
obtain homogeneous cell types for cell-based therapies. Another promising
approach is the development of conventional chemical and biological therapeutics 
to stimulate endogenous cells to regenerate. Such therapeutics can act on target 
cells or their niches in vivo to promote cell survival, proliferation,
differentiation, reprogramming and homing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07042 
PMID: 18480815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):330-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07041.

Tolerance strategies for stem-cell-based therapies.

Chidgey AP(1), Layton D, Trounson A, Boyd RL.

Author information: 
(1)Monash Immunology and Stem Cell Laboratories, Building 75, STRIP, Monash
University, Wellington Road, Clayton 3800, Victoria, Australia.

There is much interest in using embryonic stem cells to regenerate tissues and
organs. For this approach to succeed, these stem cells or their derivatives must 
engraft in patients over the long term. Unless a cell transplant is derived from 
the patient's own cells, however, the cells will be targeted for rejection by the
immune system. Although standard methods for suppressing the immune system
achieve some success, rejection of the transplant is inevitable. Emerging
approaches to address this issue include 're-educating' the immune system to
induce tolerance to foreign cells and reducing the immune targeting of the
transplant by administering 'self stem cells' instead of foreign cells, but each 
of these approaches has associated challenges.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07041 
PMID: 18480814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):322-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07040.

Stem-cell-based therapy and lessons from the heart.

Passier R(1), van Laake LW, Mummery CL.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute, Developmental Biology and Stem Cell Research, Uppsalalaan 
8, 3584 CT Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The potential usefulness of human embryonic stem cells for therapy derives from
their ability to form any cell in the body. This potential has been used to
justify intensive research despite some ethical concerns. In parallel, scientists
have searched for adult stem cells that can be used as an alternative to
embryonic cells, and, for the heart at least, these efforts have led to promising
results. However, most adult cardiomyocytes are unable to divide and form new
cardiomyocytes and would therefore be unable to replace those lost as a result of
disease. Basic questions--for example, whether cardiomyocyte replacement or
alternatives, such as providing the damaged heart with new blood vessels or
growth factors to activate resident stem cells, are the best approach--remain to 
be fully addressed. Despite this, preclinical studies on cardiomyocyte
transplantation in animals and the first clinical trials with adult stem cells
have recently been published with mixed results.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07040 
PMID: 18480813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):314-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07039.

Wound repair and regeneration.

Gurtner GC(1), Werner S, Barrandon Y, Longaker MT.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery,
Institute of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University
School of Medicine, 257 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305-5148, USA.
ggurtner@stanford.edu

The repair of wounds is one of the most complex biological processes that occur
during human life. After an injury, multiple biological pathways immediately
become activated and are synchronized to respond. In human adults, the wound
repair process commonly leads to a non-functioning mass of fibrotic tissue known 
as a scar. By contrast, early in gestation, injured fetal tissues can be
completely recreated, without fibrosis, in a process resembling regeneration.
Some organisms, however, retain the ability to regenerate tissue throughout adult
life. Knowledge gained from studying such organisms might help to unlock latent
regenerative pathways in humans, which would change medical practice as much as
the introduction of antibiotics did in the twentieth century.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07039 
PMID: 18480812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):306-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07038.

Intrinsic and extrinsic control of haematopoietic stem-cell self-renewal.

Zon LI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Program and Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital
Boston, Karp 7, 1 Blackfan Circle, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
zon@enders.tch.harvard.edu

When stem cells divide, they can generate progeny with the same developmental
potential as the original cell, a process referred to as self-renewal.
Self-renewal is driven intrinsically by gene expression in a cell-type-specific
manner and is modulated through interactions with extrinsic cues from the
environment, such as growth factors. However, despite the prevalence of the term 
self-renewal in the scientific literature, this process has not been defined at
the molecular level. Haematopoietic stem cells are an excellent model for the
study of self-renewal because they can be isolated prospectively, manipulated
relatively easily and assessed by using well-defined assays. Establishing the
principles of self-renewal in haematopoietic stem cells will lead to insights
into the mechanisms of self-renewal in other tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07038 
PMID: 18480811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):302-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07037.

Regenerative medicine and human models of human disease.

Chien KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Simches
Research Center, 185 Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
kchien@partners.org

Recent advances in stem-cell technology are now allowing the mechanisms of human 
disease to be studied in human cells. A new era for regenerative medicine is
arising from such disease models, extending beyond early cell-based therapies and
towards evaluating genetic variation in humans and identifying the molecular
pathways that lead to disease, as well as targets for therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07037 
PMID: 18480810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):387-90. doi: 10.1038/nature06834. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Chemical compass model of avian magnetoreception.

Maeda K(1), Henbest KB, Cintolesi F, Kuprov I, Rodgers CT, Liddell PA, Gust D,
Timmel CR, Hore PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory,
South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QR, UK.

Approximately 50 species, including birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, fish,
crustaceans and insects, are known to use the Earth's magnetic field for
orientation and navigation. Birds in particular have been intensively studied,
but the biophysical mechanisms that underlie the avian magnetic compass are still
poorly understood. One proposal, based on magnetically sensitive free radical
reactions, is gaining support despite the fact that no chemical reaction in vitro
has been shown to respond to magnetic fields as weak as the Earth's (
approximately 50 muT) or to be sensitive to the direction of such a field. Here
we use spectroscopic observation of a carotenoid-porphyrin-fullerene model system
to demonstrate that the lifetime of a photochemically formed radical pair is
changed by application of < or =50 microT magnetic fields, and to measure the
anisotropic chemical response that is essential for its operation as a chemical
compass sensor. These experiments establish the feasibility of chemical
magnetoreception and give insight into the structural and dynamic design features
required for optimal detection of the direction of the Earth's magnetic field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06834 
PMID: 18449197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):401-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06876. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

Genetic evidence that FGFs have an instructive role in limb proximal-distal
patterning.

Mariani FV(1), Ahn CP, Martin GR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Program in Developmental Biology, School of
Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California
94158-2324, USA.

Half a century ago, the apical ectodermal ridge (AER) at the distal tip of the
tetrapod limb bud was shown to produce signals necessary for development along
the proximal-distal (P-D) axis, but how these signals influence limb patterning
is still much debated. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) gene family members are key
AER-derived signals, with Fgf4, Fgf8, Fgf9 and Fgf17 expressed specifically in
the mouse AER. Here we demonstrate that mouse limbs lacking Fgf4, Fgf9 and Fgf17 
have normal skeletal pattern, indicating that Fgf8 is sufficient among AER-FGFs
to sustain normal limb formation. Inactivation of Fgf8 alone causes a mild
skeletal phenotype; however, when we also removed different combinations of the
other AER-FGF genes, we obtained unexpected skeletal phenotypes of increasing
severity, reflecting the contribution that each FGF can make to the total AER-FGF
signal. Analysis of the compound mutant limb buds revealed that, in addition to
sustaining cell survival, AER-FGFs regulate P-D-patterning gene expression during
early limb bud development, providing genetic evidence that AER-FGFs function to 
specify a distal domain and challenging the long-standing hypothesis that AER-FGF
signalling is permissive rather than instructive for limb patterning. We discuss 
how a two-signal model for P-D patterning can be integrated with the concept of
early specification to explain the genetic data presented here.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06876 
PMCID: PMC2631409
PMID: 18449196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):415-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06893. Epub 2008 Apr 30.

3.88 A structure of cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus by cryo-electron microscopy.

Yu X(1), Jin L, Zhou ZH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, The University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus (CPV) is unique within the Reoviridae family in
having a turreted single-layer capsid contained within polyhedrin inclusion
bodies, yet being fully capable of cell entry and endogenous RNA transcription.
Biochemical data have shown that the amino-terminal 79 residues of the CPV turret
protein (TP) is sufficient to bring CPV or engineered proteins into the
polyhedrin matrix for micro-encapsulation. Here we report the three-dimensional
structure of CPV at 3.88 A resolution using single-particle cryo-electron
microscopy. Our map clearly shows the turns and deep grooves of alpha-helices,
the strand separation in beta-sheets, and densities for loops and many bulky side
chains; thus permitting atomic model-building effort from cryo-electron
microscopy maps. We observed a helix-to-beta-hairpin conformational change
between the two conformational states of the capsid shell protein in the region
directly interacting with genomic RNA. We have also discovered a messenger RNA
release hole coupled with the mRNA capping machinery unique to CPV. Furthermore, 
we have identified the polyhedrin-binding domain, a structure that has potential 
in nanobiotechnology applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06893 
PMCID: PMC2746981
PMID: 18449192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):376-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06972. Epub 2008 Apr 23.

Superconductivity at 43 K in an iron-based layered compound LaO(1-x)F(x)FeAs.

Takahashi H(1), Igawa K, Arii K, Kamihara Y, Hirano M, Hosono H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, College of Humanities and Sciences, Nihon University,
Sakurajosui, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8550, Japan. hiroki@chs.nihon-u.ac.jp

The iron- and nickel-based layered compounds LaOFeP (refs 1, 2) and LaONiP (ref. 
3) have recently been reported to exhibit low-temperature superconducting phases 
with transition temperatures T(c) of 3 and 5 K, respectively. Furthermore, a
large increase in the midpoint T(c) of up to approximately 26 K has been realized
in the isocrystalline compound LaOFeAs on doping of fluoride ions at the O2-
sites (LaO(1-x)F(x)FeAs). Experimental observations and theoretical studies
suggest that these transitions are related to a magnetic instability, as is the
case for most superconductors based on transition metals. In the copper-based
high-temperature superconductors, as well as in LaOFeAs, an increase in T(c) is
often observed as a result of carrier doping in the two-dimensional electronic
structure through ion substitution in the surrounding insulating layers,
suggesting that the application of external pressure should further increase T(c)
by enhancing charge transfer between the insulating and conducting layers. The
effects of pressure on these iron oxypnictide superconductors may be more
prominent than those in the copper-based systems, because the As ion has a
greater electronic polarizability, owing to the covalency of the Fe-As chemical
bond, and, thus, is more compressible than the divalent O2- ion. Here we report
that increasing the pressure causes a steep increase in the onset T(c) of F-doped
LaOFeAs, to a maximum of approximately 43 K at approximately 4 GPa. With the
exception of the copper-based high-T(c) superconductors, this is the highest T(c)
reported to date. The present result, together with the great freedom available
in selecting the constituents of isocrystalline materials with the general
formula LnOTMPn (Ln, Y or rare-earth metal; TM, transition metal; Pn, group-V,
'pnicogen', element), indicates that the layered iron oxypnictides are promising 
as a new material platform for further exploration of high-temperature
superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06972 
PMID: 18432191 


636. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):391-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06877. Epub 2008 Apr 20.

Evolution of metal hyperaccumulation required cis-regulatory changes and
triplication of HMA4.

Hanikenne M(1), Talke IN, Haydon MJ, Lanz C, Nolte A, Motte P, Kroymann J, Weigel
D, Krämer U.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology, D-14476 Potsdam, Germany.

Little is known about the types of mutations underlying the evolution of
species-specific traits. The metal hyperaccumulator Arabidopsis halleri has the
rare ability to colonize heavy-metal-polluted soils, and, as an extremophile
sister species of Arabidopsis thaliana, it is a powerful model for research on
adaptation. A. halleri naturally accumulates and tolerates leaf concentrations as
high as 2.2% zinc and 0.28% cadmium in dry biomass. On the basis of
transcriptomics studies, metal hyperaccumulation in A. halleri has been
associated with more than 30 candidate genes that are expressed at higher levels 
in A. halleri than in A. thaliana. Some of these genes have been genetically
mapped to broad chromosomal segments of between 4 and 24 cM co-segregating with
Zn and Cd hypertolerance. However, the in planta loss-of-function approaches
required to demonstrate the contribution of a given candidate gene to metal
hyperaccumulation or hypertolerance have not been pursued to date. Using RNA
interference to downregulate HMA4 (HEAVY METAL ATPASE 4) expression, we show here
that Zn hyperaccumulation and full hypertolerance to Cd and Zn in A. halleri
depend on the metal pump HMA4. Contrary to a postulated global trans regulatory
factor governing high expression of numerous metal hyperaccumulation genes, we
demonstrate that enhanced expression of HMA4 in A. halleri is attributable to a
combination of modified cis-regulatory sequences and copy number expansion, in
comparison to A. thaliana. Transfer of an A. halleri HMA4 gene to A. thaliana
recapitulates Zn partitioning into xylem vessels and the constitutive
transcriptional upregulation of Zn deficiency response genes characteristic of Zn
hyperaccumulators. Our results demonstrate the importance of cis-regulatory
mutations and gene copy number expansion in the evolution of a complex naturally 
selected extreme trait. The elucidation of a natural strategy for metal
hyperaccumulation enables the rational design of technologies for the clean-up of
metal-contaminated soils and for bio-fortification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06877 
PMID: 18425111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):396-400. doi: 10.1038/nature06882. Epub 2008 Apr
20.

Human metabolic phenotype diversity and its association with diet and blood
pressure.

Holmes E(1), Loo RL, Stamler J, Bictash M, Yap IK, Chan Q, Ebbels T, De Iorio M, 
Brown IJ, Veselkov KA, Daviglus ML, Kesteloot H, Ueshima H, Zhao L, Nicholson JK,
Elliott P.

Author information: 
(1)Biomolecular Medicine, Division of Surgery, Oncology, Reproductive Biology and
Anaesthetics (SORA), Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, South
Kensington Campus, London SW7 2AZ, UK.

Metabolic phenotypes are the products of interactions among a variety of
factors-dietary, other lifestyle/environmental, gut microbial and genetic. We use
a large-scale exploratory analytical approach to investigate metabolic phenotype 
variation across and within four human populations, based on 1H NMR spectroscopy.
Metabolites discriminating across populations are then linked to data for
individuals on blood pressure, a major risk factor for coronary heart disease and
stroke (leading causes of mortality worldwide). We analyse spectra from two
24-hour urine specimens for each of 4,630 participants from the INTERMAP
epidemiological study, involving 17 population samples aged 40-59 in China,
Japan, UK and USA. We show that urinary metabolite excretion patterns for East
Asian and western population samples, with contrasting diets, diet-related major 
risk factors, and coronary heart disease/stroke rates, are significantly
differentiated (P < 10(-16)), as are Chinese/Japanese metabolic phenotypes, and
subgroups with differences in dietary vegetable/animal protein and blood
pressure. Among discriminatory metabolites, we quantify four and show association
(P < 0.05 to P < 0.0001) of mean 24-hour urinary formate excretion with blood
pressure in multiple regression analyses for individuals. Mean 24-hour urinary
excretion of alanine (direct) and hippurate (inverse), reflecting diet and gut
microbial activities, are also associated with blood pressure of individuals.
Metabolic phenotyping applied to high-quality epidemiological data offers the
potential to develop an area of aetiopathogenetic knowledge involving discovery
of novel biomarkers related to cardiovascular disease risk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06882 
PMID: 18425110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):406-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06849. Epub 2008 Apr 16.

Free choice activates a decision circuit between frontal and parietal cortex.

Pesaran B(1), Nelson MJ, Andersen RA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.
bijan@nyu.edu

We often face alternatives that we are free to choose between. Planning movements
to select an alternative involves several areas in frontal and parietal cortex
that are anatomically connected into long-range circuits. These areas must
coordinate their activity to select a common movement goal, but how neural
circuits make decisions remains poorly understood. Here we simultaneously record 
from the dorsal premotor area (PMd) in frontal cortex and the parietal reach
region (PRR) in parietal cortex to investigate neural circuit mechanisms for
decision making. We find that correlations in spike and local field potential
(LFP) activity between these areas are greater when monkeys are freely making
choices than when they are following instructions. We propose that a decision
circuit featuring a sub-population of cells in frontal and parietal cortex may
exchange information to coordinate activity between these areas. Cells
participating in this decision circuit may influence movement choices by
providing a common bias to the selection of movement goals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06849 
PMCID: PMC2728060
PMID: 18418380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):410-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06868. Epub 2008 Apr 16.

Vascular normalization in Rgs5-deficient tumours promotes immune destruction.

Hamzah J(1), Jugold M, Kiessling F, Rigby P, Manzur M, Marti HH, Rabie T, Kaden
S, Gröne HJ, Hämmerling GJ, Arnold B, Ganss R.

Author information: 
(1)Western Australian Institute for Medical Research, UWA Centre for Medical
Research, Perth, Western Australia 6000, Australia.

The vasculature of solid tumours is morphologically aberrant and characterized by
dilated and fragile vessels, intensive vessel sprouting and loss of hierarchical 
architecture. Constant vessel remodelling leads to spontaneous haemorrhages and
increased interstitial fluid pressure in the tumour environment. Tumour-related
angiogenesis supports tumour growth and is also a major obstacle for successful
immune therapy as it prevents migration of immune effector cells into established
tumour parenchyma. The molecular mechanisms for these angiogenic alterations are 
largely unknown. Here we identify regulator of G-protein signalling 5 (Rgs5) as a
master gene responsible for the abnormal tumour vascular morphology in mice. Loss
of Rgs5 results in pericyte maturation, vascular normalization and consequent
marked reductions in tumour hypoxia and vessel leakiness. These vascular and
intratumoral changes enhance influx of immune effector cells into tumour
parenchyma and markedly prolong survival of tumour-bearing mice. This is the
first demonstration, to our knowledge, of reduced tumour angiogenesis and
improved immune therapeutic outcome on loss of a vascular gene function and
establishes a previously unrecognized role of G-protein signalling in tumour
angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06868 
PMID: 18418378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nature. 2008 May 15;453(7193):358-62. doi: 10.1038/nature06929. Epub 2008 Apr 13.

Nucleosome organization in the Drosophila genome.

Mavrich TN(1), Jiang C, Ioshikhes IP, Li X, Venters BJ, Zanton SJ, Tomsho LP, Qi 
J, Glaser RL, Schuster SC, Gilmour DS, Albert I, Pugh BF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Gene Regulation, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Comparative genomics of nucleosome positions provides a powerful means for
understanding how the organization of chromatin and the transcription machinery
co-evolve. Here we produce a high-resolution reference map of H2A.Z and bulk
nucleosome locations across the genome of the fly Drosophila melanogaster and
compare it to that from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Like Saccharomyces,
Drosophila nucleosomes are organized around active transcription start sites in a
canonical -1, nucleosome-free region, +1 arrangement. However, Drosophila does
not incorporate H2A.Z into the -1 nucleosome and does not bury its
transcriptional start site in the +1 nucleosome. At thousands of genes, RNA
polymerase II engages the +1 nucleosome and pauses. How the transcription
initiation machinery contends with the +1 nucleosome seems to be fundamentally
different across major eukaryotic lines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06929 
PMCID: PMC2735122
PMID: 18408708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):220-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06813.

Neutral metacommunity models predict fish diversity patterns in
Mississippi-Missouri basin.

Muneepeerakul R(1), Bertuzzo E, Lynch HJ, Fagan WF, Rinaldo A, Rodriguez-Iturbe
I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, E-Quad, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA. rmuneepe@princeton.edu

River networks, seen as ecological corridors featuring connected and hierarchical
dendritic landscapes for animals and plants, present unique challenges and
opportunities for testing biogeographical theories and macroecological laws.
Although local and basin-scale differences in riverine fish diversity have been
analysed as functions of energy availability and habitat heterogeneity,
scale-dependent environmental conditions and river discharge, a model that
predicts a comprehensive set of system-wide diversity patterns has been hard to
find. Here we show that fish diversity patterns throughout the
Mississippi-Missouri River System are well described by a neutral metacommunity
model coupled with an appropriate habitat capacity distribution and dispersal
kernel. River network structure acts as an effective template for characterizing 
spatial attributes of fish biodiversity. We show that estimates of average
dispersal behaviour and habitat capacities, objectively calculated from average
runoff production, yield reliable predictions of large-scale spatial biodiversity
patterns in riverine systems. The success of the neutral theory in
two-dimensional forest ecosystems and here in dendritic riverine ecosystems
suggests the possible application of neutral metacommunity models in a diverse
suite of ecosystems. This framework offers direct linkage from large-scale
forcing, such as global climate change, to biodiversity patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06813 
PMID: 18464742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06812.

Scale effects and human impact on the elevational species richness gradients.

Nogués-Bravo D(1), Araújo MB, Romdal T, Rahbek C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology, National Museum of
Natural Sciences, CSIC, C/ José Gutiérrez Abascal, 2, 28006 Madrid, Spain.
davidnogues@mncn.csic.es

Despite two centuries of effort in characterizing environmental gradients of
species richness in search of universal patterns, surprisingly few of these
patterns have been widely acknowledged. Species richness along altitudinal
gradients was previously assumed to increase universally from cool highlands to
warm lowlands, mirroring the latitudinal increase in species richness from cool
to warm latitudes. However, since the more recent general acceptance of
altitudinal gradients as model templates for testing hypotheses behind
large-scale patterns of diversity, these gradients have been used in support of
all the main diversity hypotheses, although little consensus has been achieved.
Here we show that when resampling a data set comprising 400,000 records for 3,046
Pyrenean floristic species at different scales of analysis (achieved by varying
grain size and the extent of the gradients sampled), the derived species richness
pattern changed progressively from hump-shaped to a monotonic pattern as the
scale of extent diminished. Scale effects alone gave rise to as many conflicting 
patterns of species richness as had previously been reported in the literature,
and scale effects lent significantly different statistical support to competing
diversity hypotheses. Effects of scale on current studies may be affected by
human activities, because montane ecosystems and human activities are intimately 
connected. This interdependence has led to a global reduction in natural lowland 
habitats, hampering our ability to detect universal patterns and impeding the
search for universal diversity gradients to discover the mechanisms determining
the distribution of biological diversity on Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06812 
PMID: 18464741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06960.

Increasing risk of Amazonian drought due to decreasing aerosol pollution.

Cox PM(1), Harris PP, Huntingford C, Betts RA, Collins M, Jones CD, Jupp TE,
Marengo JA, Nobre CA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics, University of Exeter, Exeter
EX4 4QF, UK. p.m.cox@exeter.ac.uk

The Amazon rainforest plays a crucial role in the climate system, helping to
drive atmospheric circulations in the tropics by absorbing energy and recycling
about half of the rainfall that falls on it. This region (Amazonia) is also
estimated to contain about one-tenth of the total carbon stored in land
ecosystems, and to account for one-tenth of global, net primary productivity. The
resilience of the forest to the combined pressures of deforestation and global
warming is therefore of great concern, especially as some general circulation
models (GCMs) predict a severe drying of Amazonia in the twenty-first century.
Here we analyse these climate projections with reference to the 2005 drought in
western Amazonia, which was associated with unusually warm North Atlantic sea
surface temperatures (SSTs). We show that reduction of dry-season (July-October) 
rainfall in western Amazonia correlates well with an index of the north-south SST
gradient across the equatorial Atlantic (the 'Atlantic N-S gradient'). Our
climate model is unusual among current GCMs in that it is able to reproduce this 
relationship and also the observed twentieth-century multidecadal variability in 
the Atlantic N-S gradient, provided that the effects of aerosols are included in 
the model. Simulations for the twenty-first century using the same model show a
strong tendency for the SST conditions associated with the 2005 drought to become
much more common, owing to continuing reductions in reflective aerosol pollution 
in the Northern Hemisphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06960 
PMID: 18464740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):207-11. doi: 10.1038/nature06900.

Colossal cages in zeolitic imidazolate frameworks as selective carbon dioxide
reservoirs.

Wang B(1), Côté AP, Furukawa H, O'Keeffe M, Yaghi OM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Reticular Chemistry, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of California-Los Angeles, 607 East Charles E. Young Drive, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs) are porous crystalline materials with
tetrahedral networks that resemble those of zeolites: transition metals (Zn, Co) 
replace tetrahedrally coordinated atoms (for example, Si), and imidazolate links 
replace oxygen bridges. A striking feature of these materials is that the
structure adopted by a given ZIF is determined by link-link interactions, rather 
than by the structure directing agents used in zeolite synthesis. As a result,
systematic variations of linker substituents have yielded many different ZIFs
that exhibit known or predicted zeolite topologies. The materials are chemically 
and thermally stable, yet have the long-sought-after design flexibility offered
by functionalized organic links and a high density of transition metal ions. Here
we report the synthesis and characterization of two porous ZIFs-ZIF-95 and
ZIF-100-with structures of a scale and complexity previously unknown in zeolites.
The materials have complex cages that contain up to 264 vertices, and are
constructed from as many as 7,524 atoms. As expected from the adsorption
selectivity recently documented for other members of this materials family, both 
ZIFs selectively capture carbon dioxide from several different gas mixtures at
room temperature, with ZIF-100 capable of storing 28 litres per litre of material
at standard temperature and pressure. These characteristics, combined with their 
high thermal and chemical stability and ease of fabrication, make ZIFs promising 
candidate materials for strategies aimed at ameliorating increasing atmospheric
carbon dioxide levels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06900 
PMID: 18464739 


645. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):203-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06962.

Quantum oscillations in a molecular magnet.

Bertaina S(1), Gambarelli S, Mitra T, Tsukerblat B, Müller A, Barbara B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Néel, CNRS, 25 Ave. des Martyrs, BP166, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9,
France.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 19;466(7309):1006.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):167-8.

The term 'molecular magnet' generally refers to a molecular entity containing
several magnetic ions whose coupled spins generate a collective spin, S (ref. 1).
Such complex multi-spin systems provide attractive targets for the study of
quantum effects at the mesoscopic scale. In these molecules, the large energy
barriers between collective spin states can be crossed by thermal activation or
quantum tunnelling, depending on the temperature or an applied magnetic field.
There is the hope that these mesoscopic spin states can be harnessed for the
realization of quantum bits--'qubits', the basic building blocks of a quantum
computer--based on molecular magnets. But strong decoherence must be overcome if 
the envisaged applications are to become practical. Here we report the
observation and analysis of Rabi oscillations (quantum oscillations resulting
from the coherent absorption and emission of photons driven by an electromagnetic
wave) of a molecular magnet in a hybrid system, in which discrete and
well-separated magnetic clusters are embedded in a self-organized non-magnetic
environment. Each cluster contains 15 antiferromagnetically coupled S = 1/2
spins, leading to an S = 1/2 collective ground state. When this system is placed 
into a resonant cavity, the microwave field induces oscillatory transitions
between the ground and excited collective spin states, indicative of long-lived
quantum coherence. The present observation of quantum oscillations suggests that 
low-dimension self-organized qubit networks having coherence times of the order
of 100 micros (at liquid helium temperatures) are a realistic prospect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06962 
PMID: 18464738 


646. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):200-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06912.

An equatorial oscillation in Saturn's middle atmosphere.

Fouchet T(1), Guerlet S, Strobel DF, Simon-Miller AA, Bézard B, Flasar FM.

Author information: 
(1)LESIA, Observatoire de Paris, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, CNRS, Paris 7,
Meudon F-92195, France. thierry.fouchet@obspm.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):163-4.

The middle atmospheres of planets are driven by a combination of radiative
heating and cooling, mean meridional motions, and vertically propagating waves
(which originate in the deep troposphere). It is very difficult to model these
effects and, therefore, observations are essential to advancing our understanding
of atmospheres. The equatorial stratospheres of Earth and Jupiter oscillate
quasi-periodically on timescales of about two and four years, respectively,
driven by wave-induced momentum transport. On Venus and Titan, waves originating 
from surface-atmosphere interaction and inertial instability are thought to drive
the atmosphere to rotate more rapidly than the surface (superrotation). However, 
the relevant wave modes have not yet been precisely identified. Here we report
infrared observations showing that Saturn has an equatorial oscillation like
those found on Earth and Jupiter, as well as a mid-latitude subsidence that may
be associated with the equatorial motion. The latitudinal extent of Saturn's
oscillation shows that it obeys the same basic physics as do those on Earth and
Jupiter. Future highly resolved observations of the temperature profile together 
with modelling of these three different atmospheres will allow us determine the
wave mode, the wavelength and the wave amplitude that lead to middle atmosphere
oscillation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06912 
PMID: 18464737 


647. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06897.

Semi-annual oscillations in Saturn's low-latitude stratospheric temperatures.

Orton GS(1), Yanamandra-Fisher PA, Fisher BM, Friedson AJ, Parrish PD, Nelson JF,
Bauermeister AS, Fletcher L, Gezari DY, Varosi F, Tokunaga AT, Caldwell J, Baines
KH, Hora JL, Ressler ME, Fujiyoshi T, Fuse T, Hagopian H, Martin TZ, Bergstralh
JT, Howett C, Hoffmann WF, Deutsch LK, Van Cleve JE, Noe E, Adams JD, Kassis M,
Tollestrup E.

Author information: 
(1)MS 169-237, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology,
4800 Oak Grove Drive, Pasadena, California 91109, USA. glenn.orton@jpl.nasa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):163-4.

Observations of oscillations of temperature and wind in planetary atmospheres
provide a means of generalizing models for atmospheric dynamics in a diverse set 
of planets in the Solar System and elsewhere. An equatorial oscillation similar
to one in the Earth's atmosphere has been discovered in Jupiter. Here we report
the existence of similar oscillations in Saturn's atmosphere, from an analysis of
over two decades of spatially resolved observations of its 7.8-microm methane and
12.2-microm ethane stratospheric emissions, where we compare zonal-mean
stratospheric brightness temperatures at planetographic latitudes of 3.6 degrees 
and 15.5 degrees in both the northern and the southern hemispheres. These results
support the interpretation of vertical and meridional variability of temperatures
in Saturn's stratosphere as a manifestation of a wave phenomenon similar to that 
on the Earth and in Jupiter. The period of this oscillation is 14.8 +/- 1.2
terrestrial years, roughly half of Saturn's year, suggesting the influence of
seasonal forcing, as is the case with the Earth's semi-annual oscillation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06897 
PMID: 18464736 


648. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):184-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06941.

Dynamic binding orientations direct activity of HIV reverse transcriptase.

Abbondanzieri EA(1), Bokinsky G, Rausch JW, Zhang JX, Le Grice SF, Zhuang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):169-70.

The reverse transcriptase of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) catalyses a
series of reactions to convert the single-stranded RNA genome of HIV into
double-stranded DNA for host-cell integration. This task requires the reverse
transcriptase to discriminate a variety of nucleic-acid substrates such that
active sites of the enzyme are correctly positioned to support one of three
catalytic functions: RNA-directed DNA synthesis, DNA-directed DNA synthesis and
DNA-directed RNA hydrolysis. However, the mechanism by which substrates regulate 
reverse transcriptase activities remains unclear. Here we report distinct
orientational dynamics of reverse transcriptase observed on different substrates 
with a single-molecule assay. The enzyme adopted opposite binding orientations on
duplexes containing DNA or RNA primers, directing its DNA synthesis or RNA
hydrolysis activity, respectively. On duplexes containing the unique polypurine
RNA primers for plus-strand DNA synthesis, the enzyme can rapidly switch between 
the two orientations. The switching kinetics were regulated by cognate
nucleotides and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, a major class of
anti-HIV drugs. These results indicate that the activities of reverse
transcriptase are determined by its binding orientation on substrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06941 
PMCID: PMC2655135
PMID: 18464735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):175-83. doi: 10.1038/nature06936.

Genome analysis of the platypus reveals unique signatures of evolution.

Warren WC(1), Hillier LW, Marshall Graves JA, Birney E, Ponting CP, Grützner F,
Belov K, Miller W, Clarke L, Chinwalla AT, Yang SP, Heger A, Locke DP, Miethke P,
Waters PD, Veyrunes F, Fulton L, Fulton B, Graves T, Wallis J, Puente XS,
López-Otín C, Ordóñez GR, Eichler EE, Chen L, Cheng Z, Deakin JE, Alsop A,
Thompson K, Kirby P, Papenfuss AT, Wakefield MJ, Olender T, Lancet D, Huttley GA,
Smit AF, Pask A, Temple-Smith P, Batzer MA, Walker JA, Konkel MK, Harris RS,
Whittington CM, Wong ES, Gemmell NJ, Buschiazzo E, Vargas Jentzsch IM, Merkel A, 
Schmitz J, Zemann A, Churakov G, Kriegs JO, Brosius J, Murchison EP,
Sachidanandam R, Smith C, Hannon GJ, Tsend-Ayush E, McMillan D, Attenborough R,
Rens W, Ferguson-Smith M, Lefèvre CM, Sharp JA, Nicholas KR, Ray DA, Kube M,
Reinhardt R, Pringle TH, Taylor J, Jones RC, Nixon B, Dacheux JL, Niwa H, Sekita 
Y, Huang X, Stark A, Kheradpour P, Kellis M, Flicek P, Chen Y, Webber C, Hardison
R, Nelson J, Hallsworth-Pepin K, Delehaunty K, Markovic C, Minx P, Feng Y,
Kremitzki C, Mitreva M, Glasscock J, Wylie T, Wohldmann P, Thiru P, Nhan MN, Pohl
CS, Smith SM, Hou S, Nefedov M, de Jong PJ, Renfree MB, Mardis ER, Wilson RK.

Author information: 
(1)Genome Sequencing Center, Washington University School of Medicine, Campus Box
8501, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA. wwarren@wustl.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):256. Nefedov, Mikhail [added]; de Jong, Pieter J
[added].

We present a draft genome sequence of the platypus, Ornithorhynchus anatinus.
This monotreme exhibits a fascinating combination of reptilian and mammalian
characters. For example, platypuses have a coat of fur adapted to an aquatic
lifestyle; platypus females lactate, yet lay eggs; and males are equipped with
venom similar to that of reptiles. Analysis of the first monotreme genome aligned
these features with genetic innovations. We find that reptile and platypus venom 
proteins have been co-opted independently from the same gene families; milk
protein genes are conserved despite platypuses laying eggs; and immune gene
family expansions are directly related to platypus biology. Expansions of
protein, non-protein-coding RNA and microRNA families, as well as repeat
elements, are identified. Sequencing of this genome now provides a valuable
resource for deep mammalian comparative analyses, as well as for monotreme
biology and conservation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06936 
PMCID: PMC2803040
PMID: 18464734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature06867. Epub 2008 Apr 16.

Chromatin decouples promoter threshold from dynamic range.

Lam FH(1), Steger DJ, O'Shea EK.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, 7
Divinity Avenue, Bauer 307, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Chromatin influences gene expression by restricting access of DNA binding
proteins to their cognate sites in the genome. Large-scale characterization of
nucleosome positioning in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has revealed a stereotyped
promoter organization in which a nucleosome-free region (NFR) is present within
several hundred base pairs upstream of the translation start site. Many
transcription factors bind within NFRs and nucleate chromatin remodelling events 
which then expose other cis-regulatory elements. However, it is not clear how
transcription-factor binding and chromatin influence quantitative attributes of
gene expression. Here we show that nucleosomes function largely to decouple the
threshold of induction from dynamic range. With a series of variants of one
promoter, we establish that the affinity of exposed binding sites is a primary
determinant of the level of physiological stimulus necessary for substantial gene
activation, and sites located within nucleosomal regions serve to scale
expression once chromatin is remodelled. Furthermore, we find that the S.
cerevisiae phosphate response (PHO) pathway exploits these promoter designs to
tailor gene expression to different environmental phosphate levels. Our results
suggest that the interplay of chromatin and binding-site affinity provides a
mechanism for fine-tuning responses to the same cellular state. Moreover, these
findings may be a starting point for more detailed models of eukaryotic
transcriptional control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06867 
PMCID: PMC2435410
PMID: 18418379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature06869. Epub 2008 Apr 16.

Long-term haematopoietic reconstitution by Trp53-/-p16Ink4a-/-p19Arf-/-
multipotent progenitors.

Akala OO(1), Park IK, Qian D, Pihalja M, Becker MW, Clarke MF.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Molecular Biology Graduate Program, University of Michigan, 2966 
Taubman Medical Library, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-0619, USA.

Haematopoiesis is maintained by a hierarchical system where haematopoietic stem
cells (HSCs) give rise to multipotent progenitors, which in turn differentiate
into all types of mature blood cells. HSCs maintain themselves for the lifetime
of the organism because of their ability to self-renew. However, multipotent
progenitors lack the ability to self-renew, therefore their mitotic capacity and 
expansion potential are limited and they are destined to eventually stop
proliferating after a finite number of cell divisions. The molecular mechanisms
that limit the proliferation capacity of multipotent progenitors and other more
mature progenitors are not fully understood. Here we show that bone marrow cells 
from mice deficient in three genes genetically downstream of Bmi1--p16Ink4a,
p19Arf and Trp53 (triple mutant mice; p16Ink4a and p19Arf are alternative reading
frames of the same gene (also called Cdkn2a) that encode different
proteins)--have an approximately 10-fold increase in cells able to reconstitute
the blood long term. This increase is associated with the acquisition of
long-term reconstitution capacity by cells of the phenotype
c-kit+Sca-1+Flt3+CD150-CD48-Lin-, which defines multipotent progenitors in
wild-type mice. The pattern of triple mutant multipotent progenitor response to
growth factors resembles that of wild-type multipotent progenitors but not
wild-type HSCs. These results demonstrate that p16Ink4a/p19Arf and Trp53 have a
central role in limiting the expansion potential of multipotent progenitors.
These pathways are commonly repressed in cancer, suggesting a mechanism by which 
early progenitor cells could gain the ability to self-renew and become malignant 
with further oncogenic mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06869 
PMID: 18418377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):241-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06857. Epub 2008 Apr 2.

Imaging of Rab5 activity identifies essential regulators for phagosome
maturation.

Kitano M(1), Nakaya M, Nakamura T, Nagata S, Matsuda M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Bioimaging and Cell Signaling, Graduate School of Biostudies,
Kyoto University, Yoshida Konoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Efficient phagocytosis of apoptotic cells is crucial for tissue homeostasis and
the immune response. Rab5 is known as a key regulator of the early endocytic
pathway and we have recently shown that Rab5 is also implicated in apoptotic cell
engulfment; however, the precise spatio-temporal dynamics of Rab5 activity remain
unknown. Here, using a newly developed fluorescence resonance energy transfer
biosensor, we describe a change in Rab5 activity during the engulfment of
apoptotic thymocytes. Rab5 activity on phagosome membranes began to increase on
disassembly of the actin coat encapsulating phagosomes. Rab5 activation was
either continuous or repetitive for up to 10 min, but it ended before the
collapse of engulfed apoptotic cells. Expression of a dominant-negative mutant of
Rab5 delayed this collapse of apoptotic thymocytes, showing a role for Rab5 in
phagosome maturation. Disruption of microtubules with nocodazole inhibited Rab5
activation on the phagosome membrane without perturbing the engulfment of
apoptotic cells. Furthermore, we found that Gapex-5 is the guanine nucleotide
exchange factor essential for Rab5 activation during the engulfment of apoptotic 
cells. Gapex-5 was bound to a microtubule-tip-associating protein, EB1, whose
depletion inhibited Rab5 activation during phagocytosis. We therefore propose a
mechanistic model in which the recruitment of Gapex-5 to phagosomes through the
microtubule network induces the transient Rab5 activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06857 
PMID: 18385674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):233-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06860. Epub 2008 Apr 2.

Discrete fixed-resolution representations in visual working memory.

Zhang W(1), Luck SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.
wwzhang@ucdavis.edu

Limits on the storage capacity of working memory significantly affect cognitive
abilities in a wide range of domains, but the nature of these capacity limits has
been elusive. Some researchers have proposed that working memory stores a limited
set of discrete, fixed-resolution representations, whereas others have proposed
that working memory consists of a pool of resources that can be allocated
flexibly to provide either a small number of high-resolution representations or a
large number of low-resolution representations. Here we resolve this controversy 
by providing independent measures of capacity and resolution. We show that, when 
presented with more than a few simple objects, human observers store a
high-resolution representation of a subset of the objects and retain no
information about the others. Memory resolution varied over a narrow range that
cannot be explained in terms of a general resource pool but can be well explained
by a small set of discrete, fixed-resolution representations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06860 
PMCID: PMC2588137
PMID: 18385672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature06878. Epub 2008 Mar 26.

TGF-beta-induced Foxp3 inhibits T(H)17 cell differentiation by antagonizing
RORgammat function.

Zhou L(1), Lopes JE, Chong MM, Ivanov II, Min R, Victora GD, Shen Y, Du J,
Rubtsov YP, Rudensky AY, Ziegler SF, Littman DR.

Author information: 
(1)The Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine of the Skirball Institute, New York
University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

T helper cells that produce IL-17 (T(H)17 cells) promote autoimmunity in mice and
have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory diseases. At
mucosal surfaces, T(H)17 cells are thought to protect the host from infection,
whereas regulatory T (T(reg)) cells control immune responses and inflammation
triggered by the resident microflora. Differentiation of both cell types requires
transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), but depends on distinct transcription
factors: RORgammat (encoded by Rorc(gammat)) for T(H)17 cells and Foxp3 for
T(reg) cells. How TGF-beta regulates the differentiation of T cells with opposing
activities has been perplexing. Here we demonstrate that, together with
pro-inflammatory cytokines, TGF-beta orchestrates T(H)17 cell differentiation in 
a concentration-dependent manner. At low concentrations, TGF-beta synergizes with
interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-21 (refs 9-11) to promote IL-23 receptor (Il23r)
expression, favouring T(H)17 cell differentiation. High concentrations of
TGF-beta repress IL23r expression and favour Foxp3+ T(reg) cells. RORgammat and
Foxp3 are co-expressed in naive CD4+ T cells exposed to TGF-beta and in a subset 
of T cells in the small intestinal lamina propria of the mouse. In vitro,
TGF-beta-induced Foxp3 inhibits RORgammat function, at least in part through
their interaction. Accordingly, lamina propria T cells that co-express both
transcription factors produce less IL-17 (also known as IL-17a) than those that
express RORgammat alone. IL-6, IL-21 and IL-23 relieve Foxp3-mediated inhibition 
of RORgammat, thereby promoting T(H)17 cell differentiation. Therefore, the
decision of antigen-stimulated cells to differentiate into either T(H)17 or
T(reg) cells depends on the cytokine-regulated balance of RORgammat and Foxp3.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06878 
PMCID: PMC2597437
PMID: 18368049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):223-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06863. Epub 2008 Mar 23.

REST maintains self-renewal and pluripotency of embryonic stem cells.

Singh SK(1), Kagalwala MN, Parker-Thornburg J, Adams H, Majumder S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Genetics, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):E4-5; discussion E7.
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):E5-6; discussion E7.
    Nature. 2010 Sep 2;467(7311):E3-4; discussion E5.

The neuronal repressor REST (RE1-silencing transcription factor; also called
NRSF) is expressed at high levels in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells, but its
role in these cells is unclear. Here we show that REST maintains self-renewal and
pluripotency in mouse ES cells through suppression of the microRNA miR-21. We
found that, as with known self-renewal markers, the level of REST expression is
much higher in self-renewing mouse ES cells than in differentiating mouse ES
(embryoid body, EB) cells. Heterozygous deletion of Rest (Rest+/-) and its
short-interfering-RNA-mediated knockdown in mouse ES cells cause a loss of
self-renewal-even when these cells are grown under self-renewal conditions-and
lead to the expression of markers specific for multiple lineages. Conversely,
exogenously added REST maintains self-renewal in mouse EB cells. Furthermore,
Rest+/- mouse ES cells cultured under self-renewal conditions express
substantially reduced levels of several self-renewal regulators, including Oct4
(also called Pou5f1), Nanog, Sox2 and c-Myc, and exogenously added REST in mouse 
EB cells maintains the self-renewal phenotypes and expression of these
self-renewal regulators. We also show that in mouse ES cells, REST is bound to
the gene chromatin of a set of miRNAs that potentially target self-renewal genes.
Whereas mouse ES cells and mouse EB cells containing exogenously added REST
express lower levels of these miRNAs, EB cells, Rest+/- ES cells and ES cells
treated with short interfering RNA targeting Rest express higher levels of these 
miRNAs. At least one of these REST-regulated miRNAs, miR-21, specifically
suppresses the self-renewal of mouse ES cells, corresponding to the decreased
expression of Oct4, Nanog, Sox2 and c-Myc. Thus, REST is a newly discovered
element of the interconnected regulatory network that maintains the self-renewal 
and pluripotency of mouse ES cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06863 
PMCID: PMC2830094
PMID: 18362916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):190-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06879. Epub 2008 Mar 19.

Kemp elimination catalysts by computational enzyme design.

Röthlisberger D(1), Khersonsky O, Wollacott AM, Jiang L, DeChancie J, Betker J,
Gallaher JL, Althoff EA, Zanghellini A, Dym O, Albeck S, Houk KN, Tawfik DS,
Baker D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):164-6.

The design of new enzymes for reactions not catalysed by naturally occurring
biocatalysts is a challenge for protein engineering and is a critical test of our
understanding of enzyme catalysis. Here we describe the computational design of
eight enzymes that use two different catalytic motifs to catalyse the Kemp
elimination-a model reaction for proton transfer from carbon-with measured rate
enhancements of up to 10(5) and multiple turnovers. Mutational analysis confirms 
that catalysis depends on the computationally designed active sites, and a
high-resolution crystal structure suggests that the designs have close to atomic 
accuracy. Application of in vitro evolution to enhance the computational designs 
produced a >200-fold increase in k(cat)/K(m) (k(cat)/K(m) of 2,600 M(-1)s(-1) and
k(cat)/k(uncat) of >10(6)). These results demonstrate the power of combining
computational protein design with directed evolution for creating new enzymes,
and we anticipate the creation of a wide range of useful new catalysts in the
future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06879 
PMID: 18354394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):124-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06832.

Structural analysis of the essential self-cleaving type III secretion proteins
EscU and SpaS.

Zarivach R(1), Deng W, Vuckovic M, Felise HB, Nguyen HV, Miller SI, Finlay BB,
Strynadka NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, and the Center for Blood
Research, University of British Columbia, 2350 Health Sciences Mall, Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada.

During infection by Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria, the type III secretion
system (T3SS) is assembled to allow for the direct transmission of bacterial
virulence effectors into the host cell. The T3SS system is characterized by a
series of prominent multi-component rings in the inner and outer bacterial
membranes, as well as a translocation pore in the host cell membrane. These are
all connected by a series of polymerized tubes that act as the direct conduit for
the T3SS proteins to pass through to the host cell. During assembly of the T3SS, 
as well as the evolutionarily related flagellar apparatus, a post-translational
cleavage event within the inner membrane proteins EscU/FlhB is required to
promote a secretion-competent state. These proteins have long been proposed to
act as a part of a molecular switch, which would regulate the appropriate
chronological secretion of the various T3SS apparatus components during assembly 
and subsequently the transported virulence effectors. Here we show that a surface
type II beta-turn in the Escherichia coli protein EscU undergoes auto-cleavage by
a mechanism involving cyclization of a strictly conserved asparagine residue.
Structural and in vivo analysis of point and deletion mutations illustrates the
subtle conformational effects of auto-cleavage in modulating the molecular
features of a highly conserved surface region of EscU, a potential point of
interaction with other T3SS components at the inner membrane. In addition, this
work provides new structural insight into the distinct conformational
requirements for a large class of self-cleaving reactions involving asparagine
cyclization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06832 
PMID: 18451864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):120-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06833.

Life without RNase P.

Randau L(1), Schröder I, Söll D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8114, USA.

The universality of ribonuclease P (RNase P), the ribonucleoprotein essential for
transfer RNA (tRNA) 5' maturation, is challenged in the archaeon Nanoarchaeum
equitans. Neither extensive computational analysis of the genome nor biochemical 
tests in cell extracts revealed the existence of this enzyme. Here we show that
the conserved placement of its tRNA gene promoters allows the synthesis of
leaderless tRNAs, whose presence was verified by the observation of 5'
triphosphorylated mature tRNA species. Initiation of tRNA gene transcription
requires a purine, which coincides with the finding that tRNAs with a cytosine in
position 1 display unusually extended 5' termini with an extra purine residue.
These tRNAs were shown to be substrates for their cognate aminoacyl-tRNA
synthetases. These findings demonstrate how nature can cope with the loss of the 
universal and supposedly ancient RNase P through genomic rearrangement at tRNA
genes under the pressure of genome condensation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06833 
PMID: 18451863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06888.

Genome-wide screen reveals APC-associated RNAs enriched in cell protrusions.

Mili S(1), Moissoglu K, Macara IG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Center for Cell Signaling, University of Virginia,
HSC, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908-0577, USA. sm2ju@virginia.edu

RNA localization is important for the establishment and maintenance of polarity
in multiple cell types. Localized RNAs are usually transported along microtubules
or actin filaments and become anchored at their destination to some underlying
subcellular structure. Retention commonly involves actin or actin-associated
proteins, although cytokeratin filaments and dynein anchor certain RNAs. RNA
localization is important for diverse processes ranging from cell fate
determination to synaptic plasticity; however, so far there have been few
comprehensive studies of localized RNAs in mammalian cells. Here we have
addressed this issue, focusing on migrating fibroblasts that polarize to form a
leading edge and a tail in a process that involves asymmetric distribution of
RNAs. We used a fractionation scheme combined with microarrays to identify, on a 
genome-wide scale, RNAs that localize in protruding pseudopodia of mouse
fibroblasts in response to migratory stimuli. We find that a diverse group of
RNAs accumulates in such pseudopodial protrusions. Through their 3' untranslated 
regions these transcripts are anchored in granules concentrated at the plus ends 
of detyrosinated microtubules. RNAs in the granules associate with the
adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumour suppressor and the fragile X mental
retardation protein (FMRP). APC is required for the accumulation of transcripts
in protrusions. Our results suggest a new type of RNA anchoring mechanism as well
as a new, unanticipated function for APC in localizing RNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06888 
PMCID: PMC2782773
PMID: 18451862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature06830.

Hierarchical structure and the prediction of missing links in networks.

Clauset A(1), Moore C, Newman ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico 87131, USA. aaronc@santafe.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):47-8.

Networks have in recent years emerged as an invaluable tool for describing and
quantifying complex systems in many branches of science. Recent studies suggest
that networks often exhibit hierarchical organization, in which vertices divide
into groups that further subdivide into groups of groups, and so forth over
multiple scales. In many cases the groups are found to correspond to known
functional units, such as ecological niches in food webs, modules in biochemical 
networks (protein interaction networks, metabolic networks or genetic regulatory 
networks) or communities in social networks. Here we present a general technique 
for inferring hierarchical structure from network data and show that the
existence of hierarchy can simultaneously explain and quantitatively reproduce
many commonly observed topological properties of networks, such as right-skewed
degree distributions, high clustering coefficients and short path lengths. We
further show that knowledge of hierarchical structure can be used to predict
missing connections in partly known networks with high accuracy, and for more
general network structures than competing techniques. Taken together, our results
suggest that hierarchy is a central organizing principle of complex networks,
capable of offering insight into many network phenomena.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06830 
PMID: 18451861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):89-93. doi: 10.1038/nature06919.

Origin of a 'Southern Hemisphere' geochemical signature in the Arctic upper
mantle.

Goldstein SL(1), Soffer G, Langmuir CH, Lehnert KA, Graham DW, Michael PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, Columbia University, 
61 Route 9W, Palisades, New York 10964, USA. steveg@ldeo.columbia.edu

The Gakkel ridge, which extends under the Arctic ice cap for approximately 1,800 
km, is the slowest spreading ocean ridge on Earth. Its spreading created the
Eurasian basin, which is isolated from the rest of the oceanic mantle by North
America, Eurasia and the Lomonosov ridge. The Gakkel ridge thus provides unique
opportunities to investigate the composition of the sub-Arctic mantle and mantle 
heterogeneity and melting at the lower limits of seafloor spreading. The first
results of the 2001 Arctic Mid-Ocean Ridge Expedition (ref. 1) divided the Gakkel
ridge into three tectonic segments, composed of robust western and eastern
volcanic zones separated by a 'sparsely magmatic zone'. On the basis of Sr-Nd-Pb 
isotope ratios and trace elements in basalts from the spreading axis, we show
that the sparsely magmatic zone contains an abrupt mantle compositional boundary.
Basalts to the west of the boundary display affinities to the Southern Hemisphere
'Dupal' isotopic province, whereas those to the east-closest to the Eurasian
continent and where the spreading rate is slowest-display affinities to 'Northern
Hemisphere' ridges. The western zone is the only known spreading ridge outside
the Southern Hemisphere that samples a significant upper-mantle region with
Dupal-like characteristics. Although the cause of Dupal mantle has been long
debated, we show that the source of this signature beneath the western Gakkel
ridge was subcontinental lithospheric mantle that delaminated and became
integrated into the convecting Arctic asthenosphere. This occurred as North
Atlantic mantle propagated north into the Arctic during the separation of
Svalbard and Greenland.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06919 
PMID: 18451860 


662. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):84-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06921.

Advancing decadal-scale climate prediction in the North Atlantic sector.

Keenlyside NS(1), Latif M, Jungclaus J, Kornblueh L, Roeckner E.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz Institute of Marine Sciences, Düsternbrooker Weg 20, D-24105 Kiel,
Germany. nkeenlyside@ifm-geomar

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):43-5.

The climate of the North Atlantic region exhibits fluctuations on decadal
timescales that have large societal consequences. Prominent examples include
hurricane activity in the Atlantic, and surface-temperature and rainfall
variations over North America, Europe and northern Africa. Although these
multidecadal variations are potentially predictable if the current state of the
ocean is known, the lack of subsurface ocean observations that constrain this
state has been a limiting factor for realizing the full skill potential of such
predictions. Here we apply a simple approach-that uses only sea surface
temperature (SST) observations-to partly overcome this difficulty and perform
retrospective decadal predictions with a climate model. Skill is improved
significantly relative to predictions made with incomplete knowledge of the ocean
state, particularly in the North Atlantic and tropical Pacific oceans. Thus these
results point towards the possibility of routine decadal climate predictions.
Using this method, and by considering both internal natural climate variations
and projected future anthropogenic forcing, we make the following forecast: over 
the next decade, the current Atlantic meridional overturning circulation will
weaken to its long-term mean; moreover, North Atlantic SST and European and North
American surface temperatures will cool slightly, whereas tropical Pacific SST
will remain almost unchanged. Our results suggest that global surface temperature
may not increase over the next decade, as natural climate variations in the North
Atlantic and tropical Pacific temporarily offset the projected anthropogenic
warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06921 
PMID: 18451859 


663. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06932.

The missing memristor found.

Strukov DB(1), Snider GS, Stewart DR, Williams RS.

Author information: 
(1)HP Labs, 1501 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, California 94304, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1154.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):42-3.

Anyone who ever took an electronics laboratory class will be familiar with the
fundamental passive circuit elements: the resistor, the capacitor and the
inductor. However, in 1971 Leon Chua reasoned from symmetry arguments that there 
should be a fourth fundamental element, which he called a memristor (short for
memory resistor). Although he showed that such an element has many interesting
and valuable circuit properties, until now no one has presented either a useful
physical model or an example of a memristor. Here we show, using a simple
analytical example, that memristance arises naturally in nanoscale systems in
which solid-state electronic and ionic transport are coupled under an external
bias voltage. These results serve as the foundation for understanding a wide
range of hysteretic current-voltage behaviour observed in many nanoscale
electronic devices that involve the motion of charged atomic or molecular
species, in particular certain titanium dioxide cross-point switches.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06932 
PMID: 18451858 


664. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06920.

Phase-slip-induced dissipation in an atomic Bose-Hubbard system.

McKay D(1), White M, Pasienski M, DeMarco B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1110 West
Green Street, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Phase-slips control dissipation in many bosonic systems, determining the critical
velocity of superfluid helium and the generation of resistance in thin
superconducting wires. Technological interest has been largely motivated by
applications involving nanoscale superconducting circuit elements, such as
standards based on quantum phase-slip junctions. Although phase slips caused by
thermal fluctuations at high temperatures are well understood, controversy
remains over the role of phase slips in small-scale superconductors--in solids,
problems such as uncontrolled noise sources and disorder complicate their study
and application. Here we show that phase slips can lead to dissipation in a clean
and well-characterized Bose-Hubbard system, by experimentally studying the
transport of ultracold atoms trapped in an optical lattice. In contrast to
previous work, we explore a low-velocity regime described by the
three-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model that is unaffected by instabilities, and we 
measure the effect of temperature on the dissipation strength. The damping rate
of atomic motion (the analogue of electrical resistance in a solid) in the
confining parabolic potential is well fitted by a model that includes finite
damping at zero temperature. The low-temperature behaviour is consistent with the
theory of quantum tunnelling of phase slips, whereas at higher temperatures a
crossover consistent with a transition to thermal activation of phase slips is
evident. Motion-induced features reminiscent of vortices and vortex rings
associated with phase slips are also observed in time-of-flight imaging. These
results clarify the role of phase slips in superfluid systems. They may also be
of relevance in understanding the source of metallic phases observed in thin
films, or serve as a test bed for theories of bosonic dissipation based upon
variants of the Bose-Hubbard model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06920 
PMID: 18451857 


665. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06886.

The sculpting of Jupiter's gossamer rings by its shadow.

Hamilton DP(1), Krüger H.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742-2421, USA. dphamil@umd.edu

Dust near Jupiter is produced when interplanetary impactors collide energetically
with small inner moons, and is organized into a main ring, an inner halo, and two
fainter and more distant gossamer rings. Most of these structures are constrained
by the orbits of the moons Adrastea, Metis, Amalthea and Thebe, but a faint
outward protrusion called the Thebe extension behaves differently and has eluded 
understanding. Here we report on dust impacts detected during the Galileo
spacecraft's traversal of the outer ring region: we find a gap in the rings
interior to Thebe's orbit, grains on highly inclined paths, and a strong excess
of submicrometre-sized dust just inside Amalthea's orbit. We present detailed
modelling that shows that the passage of ring particles through Jupiter's shadow 
creates the Thebe extension and fully accounts for these Galileo results. Dust
grains alternately charge and discharge when traversing shadow boundaries,
allowing the planet's powerful magnetic field to excite orbital eccentricities
and, when conditions are right, inclinations as well.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06886 
PMID: 18451856 


666. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):56-64. doi: 10.1038/nature06862.

Mapping and sequencing of structural variation from eight human genomes.

Kidd JM(1), Cooper GM, Donahue WF, Hayden HS, Sampas N, Graves T, Hansen N,
Teague B, Alkan C, Antonacci F, Haugen E, Zerr T, Yamada NA, Tsang P, Newman TL, 
Tüzün E, Cheng Z, Ebling HM, Tusneem N, David R, Gillett W, Phelps KA, Weaver M, 
Saranga D, Brand A, Tao W, Gustafson E, McKernan K, Chen L, Malig M, Smith JD,
Korn JM, McCarroll SA, Altshuler DA, Peiffer DA, Dorschner M, Stamatoyannopoulos 
J, Schwartz D, Nickerson DA, Mullikin JC, Wilson RK, Bruhn L, Olson MV, Kaul R,
Smith DR, Eichler EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University 
of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Genetic variation among individual humans occurs on many different scales,
ranging from gross alterations in the human karyotype to single nucleotide
changes. Here we explore variation on an intermediate scale--particularly
insertions, deletions and inversions affecting from a few thousand to a few
million base pairs. We employed a clone-based method to interrogate this
intermediate structural variation in eight individuals of diverse geographic
ancestry. Our analysis provides a comprehensive overview of the normal pattern of
structural variation present in these genomes, refining the location of 1,695
structural variants. We find that 50% were seen in more than one individual and
that nearly half lay outside regions of the genome previously described as
structurally variant. We discover 525 new insertion sequences that are not
present in the human reference genome and show that many of these are variable in
copy number between individuals. Complete sequencing of 261 structural variants
reveals considerable locus complexity and provides insights into the different
mutational processes that have shaped the human genome. These data provide the
first high-resolution sequence map of human structural variation--a standard for 
genotyping platforms and a prelude to future individual genome sequencing
projects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06862 
PMCID: PMC2424287
PMID: 18451855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):51-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06887.

Rapid leukocyte migration by integrin-independent flowing and squeezing.

Lämmermann T(1), Bader BL, Monkley SJ, Worbs T, Wedlich-Söldner R, Hirsch K,
Keller M, Förster R, Critchley DR, Fässler R, Sixt M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, 82152 
Martinsried, Germany.

All metazoan cells carry transmembrane receptors of the integrin family, which
couple the contractile force of the actomyosin cytoskeleton to the extracellular 
environment. In agreement with this principle, rapidly migrating leukocytes use
integrin-mediated adhesion when moving over two-dimensional surfaces. As
migration on two-dimensional substrates naturally overemphasizes the role of
adhesion, the contribution of integrins during three-dimensional movement of
leukocytes within tissues has remained controversial. We studied the interplay
between adhesive, contractile and protrusive forces during interstitial leukocyte
chemotaxis in vivo and in vitro. We ablated all integrin heterodimers from murine
leukocytes, and show here that functional integrins do not contribute to
migration in three-dimensional environments. Instead, these cells migrate by the 
sole force of actin-network expansion, which promotes protrusive flowing of the
leading edge. Myosin II-dependent contraction is only required on passage through
narrow gaps, where a squeezing contraction of the trailing edge propels the rigid
nucleus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06887 
PMID: 18451854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):102-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06829. Epub 2008 Apr 23.

Melanopsin cells are the principal conduits for rod-cone input to
non-image-forming vision.

Güler AD(1), Ecker JL, Lall GS, Haq S, Altimus CM, Liao HW, Barnard AR, Cahill H,
Badea TC, Zhao H, Hankins MW, Berson DM, Lucas RJ, Yau KW, Hattar S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218,
USA.

Rod and cone photoreceptors detect light and relay this information through a
multisynaptic pathway to the brain by means of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs).
These retinal outputs support not only pattern vision but also non-image-forming 
(NIF) functions, which include circadian photoentrainment and pupillary light
reflex (PLR). In mammals, NIF functions are mediated by rods, cones and the
melanopsin-containing intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells
(ipRGCs). Rod-cone photoreceptors and ipRGCs are complementary in signalling
light intensity for NIF functions. The ipRGCs, in addition to being directly
photosensitive, also receive synaptic input from rod-cone networks. To determine 
how the ipRGCs relay rod-cone light information for both image-forming and
non-image-forming functions, we genetically ablated ipRGCs in mice. Here we show 
that animals lacking ipRGCs retain pattern vision but have deficits in both PLR
and circadian photoentrainment that are more extensive than those observed in
melanopsin knockouts. The defects in PLR and photoentrainment resemble those
observed in animals that lack phototransduction in all three photoreceptor
classes. These results indicate that light signals for irradiance detection are
dissociated from pattern vision at the retinal ganglion cell level, and animals
that cannot detect light for NIF functions are still capable of image formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06829 
PMCID: PMC2871301
PMID: 18432195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06866. Epub 2008 Apr 13.

BCR-ABL1 lymphoblastic leukaemia is characterized by the deletion of Ikaros.

Mullighan CG(1), Miller CB, Radtke I, Phillips LA, Dalton J, Ma J, White D,
Hughes TP, Le Beau MM, Pui CH, Relling MV, Shurtleff SA, Downing JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.

The Philadelphia chromosome, a chromosomal abnormality that encodes BCR-ABL1, is 
the defining lesion of chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) and a subset of acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). To define oncogenic lesions that cooperate with
BCR-ABL1 to induce ALL, we performed a genome-wide analysis of diagnostic
leukaemia samples from 304 individuals with ALL, including 43 BCR-ABL1
B-progenitor ALLs and 23 CML cases. IKZF1 (encoding the transcription factor
Ikaros) was deleted in 83.7% of BCR-ABL1 ALL, but not in chronic-phase CML.
Deletion of IKZF1 was also identified as an acquired lesion at the time of
transformation of CML to ALL (lymphoid blast crisis). The IKZF1 deletions
resulted in haploinsufficiency, expression of a dominant-negative Ikaros isoform,
or the complete loss of Ikaros expression. Sequencing of IKZF1 deletion
breakpoints suggested that aberrant RAG-mediated recombination is responsible for
the deletions. These findings suggest that genetic lesions resulting in the loss 
of Ikaros function are an important event in the development of BCR-ABL1 ALL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06866 
PMID: 18408710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):65-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06880. Epub 2008 Mar 23.

Control of T(reg) and T(H)17 cell differentiation by the aryl hydrocarbon
receptor.

Quintana FJ(1), Basso AS, Iglesias AH, Korn T, Farez MF, Bettelli E, Caccamo M,
Oukka M, Weiner HL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):46-7.
    Am J Transplant. 2012 Apr;12(4):801.

Regulatory T cells (T(reg)) expressing the transcription factor Foxp3 control the
autoreactive components of the immune system. The development of T(reg) cells is 
reciprocally related to that of pro-inflammatory T cells producing interleukin-17
(T(H)17). Although T(reg) cell dysfunction and/or T(H)17 cell dysregulation are
thought to contribute to the development of autoimmune disorders, little is known
about the physiological pathways that control the generation of these cell
lineages. Here we report the identification of the ligand-activated transcription
factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) as a regulator of T(reg) and T(H)17 cell
differentiation in mice. AHR activation by its ligand
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin induced functional T(reg) cells that
suppressed experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. On the other hand, AHR
activation by 6-formylindolo[3,2-b]carbazole interfered with T(reg) cell
development, boosted T(H)17 cell differentiation and increased the severity of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice. Thus, AHR regulates both
T(reg) and T(H)17 cell differentiation in a ligand-specific fashion, constituting
a unique target for therapeutic immunomodulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06880 
PMID: 18362915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06881. Epub 2008 Mar 23.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor links TH17-cell-mediated autoimmunity to
environmental toxins.

Veldhoen M(1), Hirota K, Westendorf AM, Buer J, Dumoutier L, Renauld JC,
Stockinger B.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Immunology, MRC National Institute for Medical Research,
The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW71AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):46-7.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor
best known for mediating the toxicity of dioxin. Environmental factors are
believed to contribute to the increased prevalence of autoimmune diseases, many
of which are due to the activity of T(H)17 T cells, a new helper T-cell subset
characterized by the production of the cytokine IL-17. Here we show that in the
CD4+ T-cell lineage of mice AHR expression is restricted to the T(H)17 cell
subset and its ligation results in the production of the T(H)17 cytokine
interleukin (IL)-22. AHR is also expressed in human T(H)17 cells. Activation of
AHR by a high-affinity ligand during T(H)17 cell development markedly increases
the proportion of T(H)17 T cells and their production of cytokines. CD4+ T cells 
from AHR-deficient mice can develop T(H)17 cell responses, but when confronted
with AHR ligand fail to produce IL-22 and do not show enhanced T(H)17 cell
development. AHR activation during induction of experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis causes accelerated onset and increased pathology in wild-type
mice, but not AHR-deficient mice. AHR ligands may therefore represent co-factors 
in the development of autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06881 
PMID: 18362914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 2008 May 1;453(7191):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06733. Epub 2008 Mar 19.

Hydatellaceae are water lilies with gymnospermous tendencies.

Friedman WE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA. ned@colorado.edu

The flowering plant family Hydatellaceae was recently discovered to be allied to 
the ancient angiosperm lineage Nymphaeales (water lilies). Because of its
critical phylogenetic position, members of the Hydatellaceae have the potential
to provide insights into the origin and early diversification of angiosperms.
Here I report that Hydatella expresses several rare embryological features that, 
in combination, are found only in members of the Nymphaeales. At maturity, the
female gametophyte is four-celled, four-nucleate and will produce a diploid
endosperm, as is characteristic of most early divergent angiosperm lineages. As
with all members of the Nymphaeales, endosperm in Hydatella is minimally
developed and perisperm is the major embryo-nourishing tissue within the seed.
Remarkably, Hydatella exhibits a maternal seed-provisioning strategy that is
unique among flowering plants, but common to all gymnosperms: pre-fertilization
allocation of nutrients to the embryo-nourishing tissue. This exceptional case of
pre-fertilization maternal provisioning of a seed in Hydatella may well be an
apomorphic feature of Hydatellaceae alone but, given the newly discovered
phylogenetic position of this family, potentially represents a plesiomorphic and 
transitional condition associated with the origin of flowering plants from
gymnospermous ancestors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06733 
PMID: 18354395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):1022-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06831.

Crystal structure of the lambda repressor and a model for pairwise cooperative
operator binding.

Stayrook S(1), Jaru-Ampornpan P, Ni J, Hochschild A, Lewis M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania School
of Medicine, 37th and Hamilton Walk, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102-6059, USA.

Bacteriophage lambda has for many years been a model system for understanding
mechanisms of gene regulation. A 'genetic switch' enables the phage to transition
from lysogenic growth to lytic development when triggered by specific
environmental conditions. The key component of the switch is the cI repressor,
which binds to two sets of three operator sites on the lambda chromosome that are
separated by about 2,400 base pairs (bp). A hallmark of the lambda system is the 
pairwise cooperativity of repressor binding. In the absence of detailed
structural information, it has been difficult to understand fully how repressor
molecules establish the cooperativity complex. Here we present the X-ray crystal 
structure of the intact lambda cI repressor dimer bound to a DNA operator site.
The structure of the repressor, determined by multiple isomorphous replacement
methods, reveals an unusual overall architecture that allows it to adopt a
conformation that appears to facilitate pairwise cooperative binding to adjacent 
operator sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06831 
PMID: 18432246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):991-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06856.

The draft genome of the transgenic tropical fruit tree papaya (Carica papaya
Linnaeus).

Ming R(1), Hou S, Feng Y, Yu Q, Dionne-Laporte A, Saw JH, Senin P, Wang W, Ly BV,
Lewis KL, Salzberg SL, Feng L, Jones MR, Skelton RL, Murray JE, Chen C, Qian W,
Shen J, Du P, Eustice M, Tong E, Tang H, Lyons E, Paull RE, Michael TP, Wall K,
Rice DW, Albert H, Wang ML, Zhu YJ, Schatz M, Nagarajan N, Acob RA, Guan P, Blas 
A, Wai CM, Ackerman CM, Ren Y, Liu C, Wang J, Wang J, Na JK, Shakirov EV, Haas B,
Thimmapuram J, Nelson D, Wang X, Bowers JE, Gschwend AR, Delcher AL, Singh R,
Suzuki JY, Tripathi S, Neupane K, Wei H, Irikura B, Paidi M, Jiang N, Zhang W,
Presting G, Windsor A, Navajas-Pérez R, Torres MJ, Feltus FA, Porter B, Li Y,
Burroughs AM, Luo MC, Liu L, Christopher DA, Mount SM, Moore PH, Sugimura T,
Jiang J, Schuler MA, Friedman V, Mitchell-Olds T, Shippen DE, dePamphilis CW,
Palmer JD, Freeling M, Paterson AH, Gonsalves D, Wang L, Alam M.

Author information: 
(1)Hawaii Agriculture Research Center, Aiea, Hawaii 96701, USA.

Papaya, a fruit crop cultivated in tropical and subtropical regions, is known for
its nutritional benefits and medicinal applications. Here we report a 3x draft
genome sequence of 'SunUp' papaya, the first commercial virus-resistant
transgenic fruit tree to be sequenced. The papaya genome is three times the size 
of the Arabidopsis genome, but contains fewer genes, including significantly
fewer disease-resistance gene analogues. Comparison of the five sequenced genomes
suggests a minimal angiosperm gene set of 13,311. A lack of recent genome
duplication, atypical of other angiosperm genomes sequenced so far, may account
for the smaller papaya gene number in most functional groups. Nonetheless,
striking amplifications in gene number within particular functional groups
suggest roles in the evolution of tree-like habit, deposition and remobilization 
of starch reserves, attraction of seed dispersal agents, and adaptation to
tropical daylengths. Transgenesis at three locations is closely associated with
chloroplast insertions into the nuclear genome, and with topoisomerase I
recognition sites. Papaya offers numerous advantages as a system for fruit-tree
functional genomics, and this draft genome sequence provides the foundation for
revealing the basis of Carica's distinguishing morpho-physiological, medicinal
and nutritional properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06856 
PMCID: PMC2836516
PMID: 18432245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):987-90. doi: 10.1038/nature06777.

Mountain pine beetle and forest carbon feedback to climate change.

Kurz WA(1), Dymond CC, Stinson G, Rampley GJ, Neilson ET, Carroll AL, Ebata T,
Safranyik L.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Resources Canada, Canadian Forest Service, Pacific Forestry Centre,
Victoria, British Columbia, V8Z 1M5, Canada. wkurz@nrcan.gc.ca

The mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins, Coleoptera:
Curculionidae, Scolytinae) is a native insect of the pine forests of western
North America, and its populations periodically erupt into large-scale outbreaks.
During outbreaks, the resulting widespread tree mortality reduces forest carbon
uptake and increases future emissions from the decay of killed trees. The impacts
of insects on forest carbon dynamics, however, are generally ignored in
large-scale modelling analyses. The current outbreak in British Columbia, Canada,
is an order of magnitude larger in area and severity than all previous recorded
outbreaks. Here we estimate that the cumulative impact of the beetle outbreak in 
the affected region during 2000-2020 will be 270 megatonnes (Mt) carbon (or 36 g 
carbon m(-2) yr(-1) on average over 374,000 km2 of forest). This impact converted
the forest from a small net carbon sink to a large net carbon source both during 
and immediately after the outbreak. In the worst year, the impacts resulting from
the beetle outbreak in British Columbia were equivalent to approximately 75% of
the average annual direct forest fire emissions from all of Canada during
1959-1999. The resulting reduction in net primary production was of similar
magnitude to increases observed during the 1980s and 1990s as a result of global 
change. Climate change has contributed to the unprecedented extent and severity
of this outbreak. Insect outbreaks such as this represent an important mechanism 
by which climate change may undermine the ability of northern forests to take up 
and store atmospheric carbon, and such impacts should be accounted for in
large-scale modelling analyses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06777 
PMID: 18432244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):983-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06918.

Hydrous silicate melt at high pressure.

Mookherjee M(1), Stixrude L, Karki B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06511, USA.

The structure and physical properties of hydrous silicate melts and the
solubility of water in melts over most of the pressure regime of Earth's mantle
(up to 136 GPa) remain unknown. At low pressure (up to a few gigapascals) the
solubility of water increases rapidly with increasing pressure, and water has a
large influence on the solidus temperature, density, viscosity and electrical
conductivity. Here we report the results of first-principles molecular dynamics
simulations of hydrous MgSiO3 melt. These show that pressure has a profound
influence on speciation of the water component, which changes from being
dominated by hydroxyls and water molecules at low pressure to extended structures
at high pressure. We link this change in structure to our finding that the
water-silicate system becomes increasingly ideal at high pressure: we find
complete miscibility of water and silicate melt throughout almost the entire
mantle pressure regime. On the basis of our results, we argue that a buoyantly
stable melt at the base of the upper mantle would contain approximately 3 wt%
water and have an electrical conductivity of 18 S m(-1), and should therefore be 
detectable by means of electromagnetic sounding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06918 
PMID: 18432243 


677. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):979-82. doi: 10.1038/nature06853.

Eocene/Oligocene ocean de-acidification linked to Antarctic glaciation by
sea-level fall.

Merico A(1), Tyrrell T, Wilson PA.

Author information: 
(1)National Oceanography Centre, Southampton, European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH,
UK. agostino.merico@gkss.de

One of the most dramatic perturbations to the Earth system during the past 100
million years was the rapid onset of Antarctic glaciation near the
Eocene/Oligocene epoch boundary (approximately 34 million years ago). This
climate transition was accompanied by a deepening of the calcite compensation
depth--the ocean depth at which the rate of calcium carbonate input from surface 
waters equals the rate of dissolution. Changes in the global carbon cycle, rather
than changes in continental configuration, have recently been proposed as the
most likely root cause of Antarctic glaciation, but the mechanism linking
glaciation to the deepening of calcite compensation depth remains unclear. Here
we use a global biogeochemical box model to test competing hypotheses put forward
to explain the Eocene/Oligocene transition. We find that, of the candidate
hypotheses, only shelf to deep sea carbonate partitioning is capable of
explaining the observed changes in both carbon isotope composition and calcium
carbonate accumulation at the sea floor. In our simulations, glacioeustatic
sea-level fall associated with the growth of Antarctic ice sheets permanently
reduces global calcium carbonate accumulation on the continental shelves, leading
to an increase in pelagic burial via permanent deepening of the calcite
compensation depth. At the same time, fresh limestones are exposed to erosion,
thus temporarily increasing global river inputs of dissolved carbonate and
increasing seawater delta13C. Our work sheds new light on the mechanisms linking 
glaciation and ocean acidity change across arguably the most important climate
transition of the Cenozoic era.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06853 
PMID: 18432242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):975-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06874.

Small phonon contribution to the photoemission kink in the copper oxide
superconductors.

Giustino F(1), Cohen ML, Louie SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California at Berkeley, Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 2;455(7213):E6-7.

Despite over two decades of intense research efforts, the origin of
high-temperature superconductivity in the copper oxides remains elusive.
Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy experiments have revealed a kink in the
dispersion relations (energy versus wavevector) of electronic states in the
copper oxides at binding energies of 50-80 meV, raising the hope that this
anomaly could be a key to understanding high-temperature superconductivity. The
kink is often interpreted in terms of interactions between the electrons and a
bosonic field. Although there is no consensus on the nature of the bosons (or
even whether a boson model is appropriate), both phonons and spin fluctuations
have been proposed as possible candidates. Here we report first-principles
calculations of the role of phonons and the electron-phonon interaction in the
photoemission spectra of La(2 - x)Sr(x)CuO4. Our calculations within the standard
formalism demonstrate that the phonon-induced renormalization of the electron
energies and the Fermi velocity is almost one order of magnitude smaller than the
effect observed in photoemission experiments. Therefore, our result rules out
electron-phonon interaction in bulk La(2 - x)Sr(x)CuO4 as the exclusive origin of
the measured kink. Our conclusions are consistent with those reached
independently in a recent study of the related compound YBa2Cu3O7.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06874 
PMID: 18432241 


679. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):970-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06843.

A topological Dirac insulator in a quantum spin Hall phase.

Hsieh D(1), Qian D, Wray L, Xia Y, Hor YS, Cava RJ, Hasan MZ.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories of Physics, Department of Physics, Princeton
Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

When electrons are subject to a large external magnetic field, the conventional
charge quantum Hall effect dictates that an electronic excitation gap is
generated in the sample bulk, but metallic conduction is permitted at the
boundary. Recent theoretical models suggest that certain bulk insulators with
large spin-orbit interactions may also naturally support conducting topological
boundary states in the quantum limit, which opens up the possibility for studying
unusual quantum Hall-like phenomena in zero external magnetic fields. Bulk
Bi(1-x)Sb(x) single crystals are predicted to be prime candidates for one such
unusual Hall phase of matter known as the topological insulator. The hallmark of 
a topological insulator is the existence of metallic surface states that are
higher-dimensional analogues of the edge states that characterize a quantum spin 
Hall insulator. In addition to its interesting boundary states, the bulk of
Bi(1-x)Sb(x) is predicted to exhibit three-dimensional Dirac particles, another
topic of heightened current interest following the new findings in
two-dimensional graphene and charge quantum Hall fractionalization observed in
pure bismuth. However, despite numerous transport and magnetic measurements on
the Bi(1-x)Sb(x) family since the 1960s, no direct evidence of either topological
Hall states or bulk Dirac particles has been found. Here, using
incident-photon-energy-modulated angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy
(IPEM-ARPES), we report the direct observation of massive Dirac particles in the 
bulk of Bi(0.9)Sb(0.1), locate the Kramers points at the sample's boundary and
provide a comprehensive mapping of the Dirac insulator's gapless surface electron
bands. These findings taken together suggest that the observed surface state on
the boundary of the bulk insulator is a realization of the 'topological metal'.
They also suggest that this material has potential application in developing
next-generation quantum computing devices that may incorporate 'light-like' bulk 
carriers and spin-textured surface currents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06843 
PMID: 18432240 


680. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):966-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06895.

The inner jet of an active galactic nucleus as revealed by a radio-to-gamma-ray
outburst.

Marscher AP(1), Jorstad SG, D'Arcangelo FD, Smith PS, Williams GG, Larionov VM,
Oh H, Olmstead AR, Aller MF, Aller HD, McHardy IM, Lähteenmäki A, Tornikoski M,
Valtaoja E, Hagen-Thorn VA, Kopatskaya EN, Gear WK, Tosti G, Kurtanidze O,
Nikolashvili M, Sigua L, Miller HR, Ryle WT.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Astrophysical Research, Boston University, 725 Commonwealth
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. marscher@bu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):945-6.

Blazars are the most extreme active galactic nuclei. They possess oppositely
directed plasma jets emanating at near light speeds from accreting supermassive
black holes. According to theoretical models, such jets are propelled by magnetic
fields twisted by differential rotation of the black hole's accretion disk or
inertial-frame-dragging ergosphere. The flow velocity increases outward along the
jet in an acceleration and collimation zone containing a coiled magnetic field.
Detailed observations of outbursts of electromagnetic radiation, for which
blazars are famous, can potentially probe the zone. It has hitherto not been
possible to either specify the location of the outbursts or verify the general
picture of jet formation. Here we report sequences of high-resolution radio
images and optical polarization measurements of the blazar BL Lacertae. The data 
reveal a bright feature in the jet that causes a double flare of radiation from
optical frequencies to TeV gamma-ray energies, as well as a delayed outburst at
radio wavelengths. We conclude that the event starts in a region with a helical
magnetic field that we identify with the acceleration and collimation zone
predicted by the theories. The feature brightens again when it crosses a standing
shock wave corresponding to the bright 'core' seen on the images.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06895 
PMID: 18432239 


681. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):961-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06889.

Crystal structures of DNA/RNA repair enzymes AlkB and ABH2 bound to dsDNA.

Yang CG(1), Yi C, Duguid EM, Sullivan CT, Jian X, Rice PA, He C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The University of Chicago, 929 East 57th Street,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Escherichia coli AlkB and its human homologues ABH2 and ABH3 repair DNA/RNA base 
lesions by using a direct oxidative dealkylation mechanism. ABH2 has the primary 
role of guarding mammalian genomes against 1-meA damage by repairing this lesion 
in double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), whereas AlkB and ABH3 preferentially repair
single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) lesions and can repair damaged bases in RNA. Here we 
show the first crystal structures of AlkB-dsDNA and ABH2-dsDNA complexes,
stabilized by a chemical cross-linking strategy. This study reveals that AlkB
uses an unprecedented base-flipping mechanism to access the damaged base: it
squeezes together the two bases flanking the flipped-out one to maintain the base
stack, explaining the preference of AlkB for repairing ssDNA lesions over dsDNA
ones. In addition, the first crystal structure of ABH2, presented here, provides 
a structural basis for designing inhibitors of this human DNA repair protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06889 
PMCID: PMC2587245
PMID: 18432238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):1002-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06850. Epub 2008 Apr 13.

Insect olfactory receptors are heteromeric ligand-gated ion channels.

Sato K(1), Pellegrino M, Nakagawa T, Nakagawa T, Vosshall LB, Touhara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrated Biosciences, The University of Tokyo, Chiba 277-8562,
Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):944.

In insects, each olfactory sensory neuron expresses between one and three
ligand-binding members of the olfactory receptor (OR) gene family, along with the
highly conserved and broadly expressed Or83b co-receptor. The functional insect
OR consists of a heteromeric complex of unknown stoichiometry but comprising at
least one variable odorant-binding subunit and one constant Or83b family subunit.
Insect ORs lack homology to G-protein-coupled chemosensory receptors in
vertebrates and possess a distinct seven-transmembrane topology with the amino
terminus located intracellularly. Here we provide evidence that heteromeric
insect ORs comprise a new class of ligand-activated non-selective cation
channels. Heterologous cells expressing silkmoth, fruitfly or mosquito
heteromeric OR complexes showed extracellular Ca2+ influx and
cation-non-selective ion conductance on stimulation with odorant. Odour-evoked OR
currents are independent of known G-protein-coupled second messenger pathways.
The fast response kinetics and OR-subunit-dependent K+ ion selectivity of the
insect OR complex support the hypothesis that the complex between OR and Or83b
itself confers channel activity. Direct evidence for odorant-gated channels was
obtained by outside-out patch-clamp recording of Xenopus oocyte and HEK293T cell 
membranes expressing insect OR complexes. The ligand-gated ion channel formed by 
an insect OR complex seems to be the basis for a unique strategy that insects
have acquired to respond to the olfactory environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06850 
PMID: 18408712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):1007-11. doi: 10.1038/nature06861. Epub 2008 Apr
13.

Drosophila odorant receptors are both ligand-gated and
cyclic-nucleotide-activated cation channels.

Wicher D(1), Schäfer R, Bauernfeind R, Stensmyr MC, Heller R, Heinemann SH,
Hansson BS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Neuroethology, Max Planck Institute for Chemical
Ecology, Hans-Knöll-St 8, D-07745 Jena, Germany. dwicher@ice.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):944.

From worm to man, many odorant signals are perceived by the binding of volatile
ligands to odorant receptors that belong to the G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)
family. They couple to heterotrimeric G-proteins, most of which induce cAMP
production. This second messenger then activates cyclic-nucleotide-gated ion
channels to depolarize the olfactory receptor neuron, thus providing a signal for
further neuronal processing. Recent findings, however, have challenged this
concept of odorant signal transduction in insects, because their odorant
receptors, which lack any sequence similarity to other GPCRs, are composed of
conventional odorant receptors (for example, Or22a), dimerized with a
ubiquitously expressed chaperone protein, such as Or83b in Drosophila. Or83b has 
a structure akin to GPCRs, but has an inverted orientation in the plasma
membrane. However, G proteins are expressed in insect olfactory receptor neurons,
and olfactory perception is modified by mutations affecting the cAMP transduction
pathway. Here we show that application of odorants to mammalian cells
co-expressing Or22a and Or83b results in non-selective cation currents activated 
by means of an ionotropic and a metabotropic pathway, and a subsequent increase
in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Expression of Or83b alone leads to
functional ion channels not directly responding to odorants, but being directly
activated by intracellular cAMP or cGMP. Insect odorant receptors thus form
ligand-gated channels as well as complexes of odorant-sensing units and
cyclic-nucleotide-activated non-selective cation channels. Thereby, they provide 
rapid and transient as well as sensitive and prolonged odorant signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06861 
PMID: 18408711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):1012-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06852. Epub 2008 Apr 9.

Upper intestinal lipids trigger a gut-brain-liver axis to regulate glucose
production.

Wang PY(1), Caspi L, Lam CK, Chari M, Li X, Light PE, Gutierrez-Juarez R, Ang M, 
Schwartz GJ, Lam TK.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto General Hospital Research Institute, University Health Network,
Toronto M5G 1L7, Canada.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2008 Sep;48(3):1011-3.
    Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):941-2.

Energy and glucose homeostasis are regulated by food intake and liver glucose
production, respectively. The upper intestine has a critical role in nutrient
digestion and absorption. However, studies indicate that upper intestinal lipids 
inhibit food intake as well in rodents and humans by the activation of an
intestine-brain axis. In parallel, a brain-liver axis has recently been proposed 
to detect blood lipids to inhibit glucose production in rodents. Thus, we tested 
the hypothesis that upper intestinal lipids activate an intestine-brain-liver
neural axis to regulate glucose homeostasis. Here we demonstrate that direct
administration of lipids into the upper intestine increased upper intestinal
long-chain fatty acyl-coenzyme A (LCFA-CoA) levels and suppressed glucose
production. Co-infusion of the acyl-CoA synthase inhibitor triacsin C or the
anaesthetic tetracaine with duodenal lipids abolished the inhibition of glucose
production, indicating that upper intestinal LCFA-CoAs regulate glucose
production in the preabsorptive state. Subdiaphragmatic vagotomy or gut vagal
deafferentation interrupts the neural connection between the gut and the brain,
and blocks the ability of upper intestinal lipids to inhibit glucose production. 
Direct administration of the N-methyl-d-aspartate ion channel blocker MK-801 into
the fourth ventricle or the nucleus of the solitary tract where gut sensory
fibres terminate abolished the upper-intestinal-lipid-induced inhibition of
glucose production. Finally, hepatic vagotomy negated the inhibitory effects of
upper intestinal lipids on glucose production. These findings indicate that upper
intestinal lipids activate an intestine-brain-liver neural axis to inhibit
glucose production, and thereby reveal a previously unappreciated pathway that
regulates glucose homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06852 
PMID: 18401341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):1017-21. doi: 10.1038/nature06809. Epub 2008 Apr 2.

A deadenylation negative feedback mechanism governs meiotic metaphase arrest.

Belloc E(1), Méndez R.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Pompeu Fabra University (UPF), C/Dr
Aiguader 88, 08003, Barcelona, Spain.

In vertebrate oocytes, meiotic progression is driven by the sequential
translational activation of maternal messenger RNAs stored in the cytoplasm. This
activation is mainly induced by the cytoplasmic elongation of their poly(A)
tails, which is mediated by the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element (CPE) present
in their 3' untranslated regions. In Xenopus oocytes, sequential phase-specific
translation of CPE-regulated mRNAs is required to activate the
maturation-promoting factor, which in turn mediates entry into the two
consecutive meiotic metaphases (MI and MII). Here we report a genome-wide
functional screening to identify previously unknown mRNAs cytoplasmically
polyadenylated at meiotic phase transitions. A significant fraction of
transcripts containing, in addition to CPEs, (A + U)-rich element (ARE) sequences
(characteristic of mRNAs regulated by deadenylation) were identified. Among these
is the mRNA encoding C3H-4, an ARE-binding protein that we find to accumulate in 
MI and the ablation of which induces meiotic arrest. Our results suggest that
C3H-4 recruits the CCR4 deadenylase complex to ARE-containing mRNAs and this, in 
turn, causes shortening of poly(A) tails. We also show that the opposing
activities of the CPEs and the AREs define the precise activation times of the
mRNAs encoding the anaphase-promoting complex inhibitors Emi1 and Emi2 during
distinct phases of the meiotic cycle. Taken together, our results show that an
'early' wave of cytoplasmic polyadenylation activates a negative feedback loop by
activating the synthesis of C3H-4, which in turn would recruit the deadenylase
complex to mRNAs containing both CPEs and AREs. This negative feedback loop is
required to exit from metaphase into interkinesis and for meiotic progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06809 
PMID: 18385675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):997-1001. doi: 10.1038/nature06858. Epub 2008 Apr
2.

Genetic variation in human NPY expression affects stress response and emotion.

Zhou Z(1), Zhu G, Hariri AR, Enoch MA, Scott D, Sinha R, Virkkunen M, Mash DC,
Lipsky RH, Hu XZ, Hodgkinson CA, Xu K, Buzas B, Yuan Q, Shen PH, Ferrell RE,
Manuck SB, Brown SM, Hauger RL, Stohler CS, Zubieta JK, Goldman D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, NIAAA, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):E6; discussion E7.

Understanding inter-individual differences in stress response requires the
explanation of genetic influences at multiple phenotypic levels, including
complex behaviours and the metabolic responses of brain regions to emotional
stimuli. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is anxiolytic and its release is induced by stress.
NPY is abundantly expressed in regions of the limbic system that are implicated
in arousal and in the assignment of emotional valences to stimuli and memories.
Here we show that haplotype-driven NPY expression predicts brain responses to
emotional and stress challenges and also inversely correlates with trait anxiety.
NPY haplotypes predicted levels of NPY messenger RNA in post-mortem brain and
lymphoblasts, and levels of plasma NPY. Lower haplotype-driven NPY expression
predicted higher emotion-induced activation of the amygdala, as well as
diminished resiliency as assessed by pain/stress-induced activations of
endogenous opioid neurotransmission in various brain regions. A single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP rs16147) located in the promoter region alters NPY expression
in vitro and seems to account for more than half of the variation in expression
in vivo. These convergent findings are consistent with the function of NPY as an 
anxiolytic peptide and help to explain inter-individual variation in resiliency
to stress, a risk factor for many diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06858 
PMCID: PMC2715959
PMID: 18385673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):949-55. doi: 10.1038/nature06784. Epub 2008 Mar 23.

The genome of the model beetle and pest Tribolium castaneum.

Tribolium Genome Sequencing Consortium(1), Richards S, Gibbs RA, Weinstock GM,
Brown SJ, Denell R, Beeman RW, Gibbs R, Beeman RW, Brown SJ, Bucher G, Friedrich 
M, Grimmelikhuijzen CJ, Klingler M, Lorenzen M, Richards S, Roth S, Schröder R,
Tautz D, Zdobnov EM, Muzny D, Gibbs RA, Weinstock GM, Attaway T, Bell S, Buhay
CJ, Chandrabose MN, Chavez D, Clerk-Blankenburg KP, Cree A, Dao M, Davis C,
Chacko J, Dinh H, Dugan-Rocha S, Fowler G, Garner TT, Garnes J, Gnirke A, Hawes
A, Hernandez J, Hines S, Holder M, Hume J, Jhangiani SN, Joshi V, Khan ZM,
Jackson L, Kovar C, Kowis A, Lee S, Lewis LR, Margolis J, Morgan M, Nazareth LV, 
Nguyen N, Okwuonu G, Parker D, Richards S, Ruiz SJ, Santibanez J, Savard J,
Scherer SE, Schneider B, Sodergren E, Tautz D, Vattahil S, Villasana D, White CS,
Wright R, Park Y, Beeman RW, Lord J, Oppert B, Lorenzen M, Brown S, Wang L,
Savard J, Tautz D, Richards S, Weinstock G, Gibbs RA, Liu Y, Worley K, Weinstock 
G, Elsik CG, Reese JT, Elhaik E, Landan G, Graur D, Arensburger P, Atkinson P,
Beeman RW, Beidler J, Brown SJ, Demuth JP, Drury DW, Du YZ, Fujiwara H, Lorenzen 
M, Maselli V, Osanai M, Park Y, Robertson HM, Tu Z, Wang JJ, Wang S, Richards S, 
Song H, Zhang L, Sodergren E, Werner D, Stanke M, Morgenstern B, Solovyev V,
Kosarev P, Brown G, Chen HC, Ermolaeva O, Hlavina W, Kapustin Y, Kiryutin B,
Kitts P, Maglott D, Pruitt K, Sapojnikov V, Souvorov A, Mackey AJ, Waterhouse RM,
Wyder S, Zdobnov EM, Zdobnov EM, Wyder S, Kriventseva EV, Kadowaki T, Bork P,
Aranda M, Bao R, Beermann A, Berns N, Bolognesi R, Bonneton F, Bopp D, Brown SJ, 
Bucher G, Butts T, Chaumot A, Denell RE, Ferrier DE, Friedrich M, Gordon CM,
Jindra M, Klingler M, Lan Q, Lattorff HM, Laudet V, von Levetsow C, Liu Z, Lutz
R, Lynch JA, da Fonseca RN, Posnien N, Reuter R, Roth S, Savard J, Schinko JB,
Schmitt C, Schoppmeier M, Schröder R, Shippy TD, Simonnet F, Marques-Souza H,
Tautz D, Tomoyasu Y, Trauner J, Van der Zee M, Vervoort M, Wittkopp N, Wimmer EA,
Yang X, Jones AK, Sattelle DB, Ebert PR, Nelson D, Scott JG, Beeman RW,
Muthukrishnan S, Kramer KJ, Arakane Y, Beeman RW, Zhu Q, Hogenkamp D, Dixit R,
Oppert B, Jiang H, Zou Z, Marshall J, Elpidina E, Vinokurov K, Oppert C, Zou Z,
Evans J, Lu Z, Zhao P, Sumathipala N, Altincicek B, Vilcinskas A, Williams M,
Hultmark D, Hetru C, Jiang H, Grimmelikhuijzen CJ, Hauser F, Cazzamali G,
Williamson M, Park Y, Li B, Tanaka Y, Predel R, Neupert S, Schachtner J, Verleyen
P, Raible F, Bork P, Friedrich M, Walden KK, Robertson HM, Angeli S, Forêt S,
Bucher G, Schuetz S, Maleszka R, Wimmer EA, Beeman RW, Lorenzen M, Tomoyasu Y,
Miller SC, Grossmann D, Bucher G.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA. stephenr@bcm.edu

Tribolium castaneum is a member of the most species-rich eukaryotic order, a
powerful model organism for the study of generalized insect development, and an
important pest of stored agricultural products. We describe its genome sequence
here. This omnivorous beetle has evolved the ability to interact with a diverse
chemical environment, as shown by large expansions in odorant and gustatory
receptors, as well as P450 and other detoxification enzymes. Development in
Tribolium is more representative of other insects than is Drosophila, a fact
reflected in gene content and function. For example, Tribolium has retained more 
ancestral genes involved in cell-cell communication than Drosophila, some being
expressed in the growth zone crucial for axial elongation in short-germ
development. Systemic RNA interference in T. castaneum functions differently from
that in Caenorhabditis elegans, but nevertheless offers similar power for the
elucidation of gene function and identification of targets for selective insect
control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06784 
PMID: 18362917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):956-60. doi: 10.1038/nature06864. Epub 2008 Mar 16.

Lateral presynaptic inhibition mediates gain control in an olfactory circuit.

Olsen SR(1), Wilson RI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, 220 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Olfactory signals are transduced by a large family of odorant receptor proteins, 
each of which corresponds to a unique glomerulus in the first olfactory relay of 
the brain. Crosstalk between glomeruli has been proposed to be important in
olfactory processing, but it is not clear how these interactions shape the odour 
responses of second-order neurons. In the Drosophila antennal lobe (a region
analogous to the vertebrate olfactory bulb), we selectively removed most
interglomerular input to genetically identified second-order olfactory neurons.
Here we show that this broadens the odour tuning of these neurons, implying that 
interglomerular inhibition dominates over interglomerular excitation. The
strength of this inhibitory signal scales with total feedforward input to the
entire antennal lobe, and has similar tuning in different glomeruli. A
substantial portion of this interglomerular inhibition acts at a presynaptic
locus, and our results imply that this is mediated by both ionotropic and
metabotropic receptors on the same nerve terminal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06864 
PMCID: PMC2824883
PMID: 18344978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):872-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06884.

The complete genome of an individual by massively parallel DNA sequencing.

Wheeler DA(1), Srinivasan M, Egholm M, Shen Y, Chen L, McGuire A, He W, Chen YJ, 
Makhijani V, Roth GT, Gomes X, Tartaro K, Niazi F, Turcotte CL, Irzyk GP, Lupski 
JR, Chinault C, Song XZ, Liu Y, Yuan Y, Nazareth L, Qin X, Muzny DM, Margulies M,
Weinstock GM, Gibbs RA, Rothberg JM.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):819-20.

The association of genetic variation with disease and drug response, and
improvements in nucleic acid technologies, have given great optimism for the
impact of 'genomic medicine'. However, the formidable size of the diploid human
genome, approximately 6 gigabases, has prevented the routine application of
sequencing methods to deciphering complete individual human genomes. To realize
the full potential of genomics for human health, this limitation must be
overcome. Here we report the DNA sequence of a diploid genome of a single
individual, James D. Watson, sequenced to 7.4-fold redundancy in two months using
massively parallel sequencing in picolitre-size reaction vessels. This sequence
was completed in two months at approximately one-hundredth of the cost of
traditional capillary electrophoresis methods. Comparison of the sequence to the 
reference genome led to the identification of 3.3 million single nucleotide
polymorphisms, of which 10,654 cause amino-acid substitution within the coding
sequence. In addition, we accurately identified small-scale (2-40,000 base pair
(bp)) insertion and deletion polymorphism as well as copy number variation
resulting in the large-scale gain and loss of chromosomal segments ranging from
26,000 to 1.5 million base pairs. Overall, these results agree well with recent
results of sequencing of a single individual by traditional methods. However, in 
addition to being faster and significantly less expensive, this sequencing
technology avoids the arbitrary loss of genomic sequences inherent in random
shotgun sequencing by bacterial cloning because it amplifies DNA in a cell-free
system. As a result, we further demonstrate the acquisition of novel human
sequence, including novel genes not previously identified by traditional genomic 
sequencing. This is the first genome sequenced by next-generation technologies.
Therefore it is a pilot for the future challenges of 'personalized genome
sequencing'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06884 
PMID: 18421352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):864-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06825.

Changing boreal methane sources and constant biomass burning during the last
termination.

Fischer H(1), Behrens M, Bock M, Richter U, Schmitt J, Loulergue L, Chappellaz J,
Spahni R, Blunier T, Leuenberger M, Stocker TF.

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Columbusstrasse, 27568
Bremerhaven, Germany. hubertus.fischer@awi.de

Past atmospheric methane concentrations show strong fluctuations in parallel to
rapid glacial climate changes in the Northern Hemisphere superimposed on a
glacial-interglacial doubling of methane concentrations. The processes driving
the observed fluctuations remain uncertain but can be constrained using methane
isotopic information from ice cores. Here we present an ice core record of carbon
isotopic ratios in methane over the entire last glacial-interglacial transition. 
Our data show that the carbon in atmospheric methane was isotopically much
heavier in cold climate periods. With the help of a box model constrained by the 
present data and previously published results, we are able to estimate the
magnitude of past individual methane emission sources and the atmospheric
lifetime of methane. We find that methane emissions due to biomass burning were
about 45 Tg methane per year, and that these remained roughly constant throughout
the glacial termination. The atmospheric lifetime of methane is reduced during
cold climate periods. We also show that boreal wetlands are an important source
of methane during warm events, but their methane emissions are essentially shut
down during cold climate conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06825 
PMID: 18421351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):859-63. doi: 10.1038/nature06826.

Electrical effects of spin density wave quantization and magnetic domain walls in
chromium.

Kummamuru RK(1), Soh YA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire
03755, USA.

The role of magnetic domains (and the walls between domains) in determining the
electrical properties of ferromagnetic materials has been investigated in great
detail for many years, not least because control over domains offers a means of
manipulating electron spin to control charge transport in 'spintronic' devices.
In contrast, much less attention has been paid to the effects of domains and
domain walls on the electrical properties of antiferromagnets: antiferromagnetic 
domains show no net external magnetic moment, and so are difficult to manipulate 
or probe. Here we describe electrical measurements on chromium--a simple metal
and quintessential spin density wave antiferromagnet--that show behaviour
directly related to spin density wave formation and the presence of
antiferromagnetic domains. Two types of thermal hysteresis are seen in both
longitudinal and Hall resistivity: the first can be explained by the quantization
of spin density waves due to the finite film thickness (confirmed by X-ray
diffraction measurements) and the second by domain-wall scattering of electrons. 
We also observe the striking influence of the electrical lead configuration (a
mesoscopic effect) on the resistivity of macroscopic samples in the spin density 
wave state. Our results are potentially of practical importance, in that they
reveal tunable electrical effects of film thickness and domain walls that are as 
large as the highest seen for ferromagnets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06826 
PMID: 18421350 


692. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):854-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06838.

Thermalization and its mechanism for generic isolated quantum systems.

Rigol M(1), Dunjko V, Olshanii M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 12;481(7380):224.

An understanding of the temporal evolution of isolated many-body quantum systems 
has long been elusive. Recently, meaningful experimental studies of the problem
have become possible, stimulating theoretical interest. In generic isolated
systems, non-equilibrium dynamics is expected to result in thermalization: a
relaxation to states in which the values of macroscopic quantities are
stationary, universal with respect to widely differing initial conditions, and
predictable using statistical mechanics. However, it is not obvious what feature 
of many-body quantum mechanics makes quantum thermalization possible in a sense
analogous to that in which dynamical chaos makes classical thermalization
possible. For example, dynamical chaos itself cannot occur in an isolated quantum
system, in which the time evolution is linear and the spectrum is discrete. Some 
recent studies even suggest that statistical mechanics may give incorrect
predictions for the outcomes of relaxation in such systems. Here we demonstrate
that a generic isolated quantum many-body system does relax to a state well
described by the standard statistical-mechanical prescription. Moreover, we show 
that time evolution itself plays a merely auxiliary role in relaxation, and that 
thermalization instead happens at the level of individual eigenstates, as first
proposed by Deutsch and Srednicki. A striking consequence of this
eigenstate-thermalization scenario, confirmed for our system, is that knowledge
of a single many-body eigenstate is sufficient to compute thermal averages-any
eigenstate in the microcanonical energy window will do, because they all give the
same result.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06838 
PMID: 18421349 


693. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):851-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06896.

A massive binary black-hole system in OJ 287 and a test of general relativity.

Valtonen MJ(1), Lehto HJ, Nilsson K, Heidt J, Takalo LO, Sillanpää A, Villforth
C, Kidger M, Poyner G, Pursimo T, Zola S, Wu JH, Zhou X, Sadakane K, Drozdz M,
Koziel D, Marchev D, Ogloza W, Porowski C, Siwak M, Stachowski G, Winiarski M,
Hentunen VP, Nissinen M, Liakos A, Dogru S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Tuorla Observatory, University of Turku, Vaisäläntie
20, FI-21500 Piikkiö, Finland. mvaltonen2001@yahoo.com

Tests of Einstein's general theory of relativity have mostly been carried out in 
weak gravitational fields where the space-time curvature effects are first-order 
deviations from Newton's theory. Binary pulsars provide a means of probing the
strong gravitational field around a neutron star, but strong-field effects may be
best tested in systems containing black holes. Here we report such a test in a
close binary system of two candidate black holes in the quasar OJ 287. This
quasar shows quasi-periodic optical outbursts at 12-year intervals, with two
outburst peaks per interval. The latest outburst occurred in September 2007,
within a day of the time predicted by the binary black-hole model and general
relativity. The observations confirm the binary nature of the system and also
provide evidence for the loss of orbital energy in agreement (within 10 per cent)
with the emission of gravitational waves from the system. In the absence of
gravitational wave emission the outburst would have happened 20 days later.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06896 
PMID: 18421348 


694. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):840-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06847.

Evolvability and hierarchy in rewired bacterial gene networks.

Isalan M(1), Lemerle C, Michalodimitrakis K, Horn C, Beltrao P, Raineri E,
Garriga-Canut M, Serrano L.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL/CRG Systems Biology Research Unit, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG),
UPF, 08003 Barcelona, Spain. isalan@crg.es

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):824-5.

Sequencing DNA from several organisms has revealed that duplication and drift of 
existing genes have primarily moulded the contents of a given genome. Though the 
effect of knocking out or overexpressing a particular gene has been studied in
many organisms, no study has systematically explored the effect of adding new
links in a biological network. To explore network evolvability, we constructed
598 recombinations of promoters (including regulatory regions) with different
transcription or sigma-factor genes in Escherichia coli, added over a wild-type
genetic background. Here we show that approximately 95% of new networks are
tolerated by the bacteria, that very few alter growth, and that expression level 
correlates with factor position in the wild-type network hierarchy. Most
importantly, we find that certain networks consistently survive over the wild
type under various selection pressures. Therefore new links in the network are
rarely a barrier for evolution and can even confer a fitness advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06847 
PMCID: PMC2666274
PMID: 18421347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):835-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06851.

Why fishing magnifies fluctuations in fish abundance.

Anderson CN(1), Hsieh CH, Sandin SA, Hewitt R, Hollowed A, Beddington J, May RM, 
Sugihara G.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):825-6.
    Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):586.

It is now clear that fished populations can fluctuate more than unharvested
stocks. However, it is not clear why. Here we distinguish among three major
competing mechanisms for this phenomenon, by using the 50-year California
Cooperative Oceanic Fisheries Investigations (CalCOFI) larval fish record. First,
variable fishing pressure directly increases variability in exploited
populations. Second, commercial fishing can decrease the average body size and
age of a stock, causing the truncated population to track environmental
fluctuations directly. Third, age-truncated or juvenescent populations have
increasingly unstable population dynamics because of changing demographic
parameters such as intrinsic growth rates. We find no evidence for the first
hypothesis, limited evidence for the second and strong evidence for the third.
Therefore, in California Current fisheries, increased temporal variability in the
population does not arise from variable exploitation, nor does it reflect direct 
environmental tracking. More fundamentally, it arises from increased instability 
in dynamics. This finding has implications for resource management as an
empirical example of how selective harvesting can alter the basic dynamics of
exploited populations, and lead to unstable booms and busts that can precede
systematic declines in stock levels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06851 
PMID: 18421346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):829-34. doi: 10.1038/nature06855.

Observation of a quarter of an electron charge at the nu = 5/2 quantum Hall
state.

Dolev M(1), Heiblum M, Umansky V, Stern A, Mahalu D.

Author information: 
(1)Braun Center for Submicron Research, Department of Condensed Matter Physics,
Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. merav.dolev@weizmann.ac.il

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):822-3.

The fractional quantum Hall effect, where plateaus in the Hall resistance at
values of h/nue2 coexist with zeros in the longitudinal resistance, results from 
electron correlations in two dimensions under a strong magnetic field. (Here h is
Planck's constant, nu the filling factor and e the electron charge.) Current
flows along the sample edges and is carried by charged excitations
(quasiparticles) whose charge is a fraction of the electron charge. Although
earlier research concentrated on odd denominator fractional values of nu, the
observation of the even denominator nu = 5/2 state sparked much interest. This
state is conjectured to be characterized by quasiparticles of charge e/4, whose
statistics are 'non-abelian'-in other words, interchanging two quasiparticles may
modify the state of the system into a different one, rather than just adding a
phase as is the case for fermions or bosons. As such, these quasiparticles may be
useful for the construction of a topological quantum computer. Here we report
data on shot noise generated by partitioning edge currents in the nu = 5/2 state,
consistent with the charge of the quasiparticle being e/4, and inconsistent with 
other possible values, such as e/2 and e. Although this finding does not prove
the non-abelian nature of the nu = 5/2 state, it is the first step towards a full
understanding of these new fractional charges.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06855 
PMID: 18421345 


697. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):896-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06783. Epub 2008 Mar 26.

LNA-mediated microRNA silencing in non-human primates.

Elmén J(1), Lindow M, Schütz S, Lawrence M, Petri A, Obad S, Lindholm M, Hedtjärn
M, Hansen HF, Berger U, Gullans S, Kearney P, Sarnow P, Straarup EM, Kauppinen S.

Author information: 
(1)Santaris Pharma, Bøge Allé 3, DK-2970 Hørsholm, Denmark.

microRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs that are important in development
and disease and therefore represent a potential new class of targets for
therapeutic intervention. Despite recent progress in silencing of miRNAs in
rodents, the development of effective and safe approaches for sequence-specific
antagonism of miRNAs in vivo remains a significant scientific and therapeutic
challenge. Moreover, there are no reports of miRNA antagonism in primates. Here
we show that the simple systemic delivery of a unconjugated, PBS-formulated
locked-nucleic-acid-modified oligonucleotide (LNA-antimiR) effectively
antagonizes the liver-expressed miR-122 in non-human primates. Acute
administration by intravenous injections of 3 or 10 mg kg(-1) LNA-antimiR to
African green monkeys resulted in uptake of the LNA-antimiR in the cytoplasm of
primate hepatocytes and formation of stable heteroduplexes between the
LNA-antimiR and miR-122. This was accompanied by depletion of mature miR-122 and 
dose-dependent lowering of plasma cholesterol. Efficient silencing of miR-122 was
achieved in primates by three doses of 10 mg kg(-1) LNA-antimiR, leading to a
long-lasting and reversible decrease in total plasma cholesterol without any
evidence for LNA-associated toxicities or histopathological changes in the study 
animals. Our findings demonstrate the utility of systemically administered
LNA-antimiRs in exploring miRNA function in rodents and primates, and support the
potential of these compounds as a new class of therapeutics for
disease-associated miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06783 
PMID: 18368051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):892-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06816. Epub 2008 Mar 26.

Retinotopic order in the absence of axon competition.

Gosse NJ(1), Nevin LM, Baier H.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, University of California, San Francisco,
Department of Physiology, 1550 Fourth Street, San Francisco, California
94158-2324, USA.

The retinotectal projection has long been studied experimentally and
theoretically, as a model for the formation of topographic brain maps.
Neighbouring retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) project their axons to neighbouring
positions in the optic tectum, thus re-establishing a continuous neural
representation of visual space. Mapping along this axis requires chemorepellent
signalling from tectal cells, expressing ephrin-A ligands, to retinal growth
cones, expressing EphA receptors. High concentrations of ephrin A, increasing
from anterior to posterior, prevent temporal axons from invading the posterior
tectum. However, the force that drives nasal axons to extend past the anterior
tectum and terminate in posterior regions remains to be identified. We tested
whether axon-axon interactions, such as competition, are required for posterior
tectum innervation. By transplanting blastomeres from a wild-type (WT) zebrafish 
into a lakritz (lak) mutant, which lacks all RGCs, we created chimaeras with eyes
that contained single RGCs. These solitary RGCs often extended axons into the
tectum, where they branched to form a terminal arbor. Here we show that the
distal tips of these arbors were positioned at retinotopically appropriate
positions, ruling out an essential role for competition in innervation of the
ephrin-A-rich posterior tectum. However, solitary arbors were larger and more
complex than under normal, crowded conditions, owing to a lack of pruning of
proximal branches during refinement of the retinotectal projection. We conclude
that dense innervation is not required for targeting of retinal axons within the 
zebrafish tectum but serves to restrict arbor size and shape.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06816 
PMCID: PMC2885002
PMID: 18368050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):877-81. doi: 10.1038/nature06714. Epub 2008 Mar 19.

Chromatin dynamics during epigenetic reprogramming in the mouse germ line.

Hajkova P(1), Ancelin K(#)(1), Waldmann T(#)(2), Lacoste N(3), Lange UC(1),
Cesari F(1), Lee C(1), Almouzni G(3), Schneider R(2), Surani MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust/Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute of Cancer and Developmental
Biology, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge, CB2 1QN, UK.
(2)Max-Planck-Institute of Immunobiology, Stuebeweg 51, 79108 Freiburg, Germany.
(3)CNRS/Institute Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris Cedex 05, France.
(#)Contributed equally

A unique feature of the germ cell lineage is the generation of totipotency. A
critical event in this context is DNA demethylation and the erasure of parental
imprints in mouse primordial germ cells (PGCs) on embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5)
after they enter into the developing gonads. Little is yet known about the
mechanism involved, except that it is apparently an active process. We have
examined the associated changes in the chromatin to gain further insights into
this reprogramming event. Here we show that the chromatin changes occur in two
steps. The first changes in nascent PGCs at E8.5 establish a distinctive
chromatin signature that is reminiscent of pluripotency. Next, when PGCs are
residing in the gonads, major changes occur in nuclear architecture accompanied
by an extensive erasure of several histone modifications and exchange of histone 
variants. Furthermore, the histone chaperones HIRA and NAP-1 (NAP111), which are 
implicated in histone exchange, accumulate in PGC nuclei undergoing
reprogramming. We therefore suggest that the mechanism of histone replacement is 
critical for these chromatin rearrangements to occur. The marked chromatin
changes are intimately linked with genome-wide DNA demethylation. On the basis of
the timing of the observed events, we propose that if DNA demethylation entails a
DNA repair-based mechanism, the evident histone replacement would represent a
repair-induced response event rather than being a prerequisite.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06714 
PMCID: PMC3847605
PMID: 18354397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):882-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06718. Epub 2008 Mar 19.

Integration of growth and specification in chick wing digit-patterning.

Towers M(1), Mahood R, Yin Y, Tickle C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell and Developmental Biology, WTB/MSI Complex, University of
Dundee, Dow Street, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

In the classical model of chick wing digit-patterning, the polarizing region--a
group of cells at the posterior margin of the early bud--produces a morphogen
gradient, now known to be based on Sonic hedgehog (Shh), that progressively
specifies anteroposterior positional identities in the posterior digit-forming
region. Here we add an integral growth component to this model by showing that
Shh-dependent proliferation of prospective digit progenitor cells is essential
for specifying the complete pattern of digits across the anteroposterior axis.
Inhibiting Shh signalling in early wing buds reduced anteroposterior expansion,
and posterior digits were lost because all prospective digit precursors formed
anterior structures. Inhibiting proliferation also irreversibly reduced
anteroposterior expansion, but instead anterior digits were lost because all
prospective digit precursors formed posterior structures. When proliferation
recovered in such wings, Shh transcription was maintained for longer than normal,
suggesting that duration of Shh expression is controlled by a mechanism that
measures proliferation. Rescue experiments confirmed that Shh-dependent
proliferation controls digit number during a discrete time-window in which
Shh-dependent specification normally occurs. Our findings that Shh signalling has
dual functions that can be temporally uncoupled have implications for
understanding congenital and evolutionary digit reductions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06718 
PMID: 18354396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):887-91. doi: 10.1038/nature06721. Epub 2008 Mar 16.

NAD synthase NMNAT acts as a chaperone to protect against neurodegeneration.

Zhai RG(1), Zhang F, Hiesinger PR, Cao Y, Haueter CM, Bellen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, Florida 33136, USA. gzhai@med.miami.edu

Neurodegeneration can be triggered by genetic or environmental factors. Although 
the precise cause is often unknown, many neurodegenerative diseases share common 
features such as protein aggregation and age dependence. Recent studies in
Drosophila have uncovered protective effects of NAD synthase nicotinamide
mononucleotide adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) against activity-induced
neurodegeneration and injury-induced axonal degeneration. Here we show that NMNAT
overexpression can also protect against spinocerebellar ataxia 1 (SCA1)-induced
neurodegeneration, suggesting a general neuroprotective function of NMNAT. It
protects against neurodegeneration partly through a proteasome-mediated pathway
in a manner similar to heat-shock protein 70 (Hsp70). NMNAT displays chaperone
function both in biochemical assays and cultured cells, and it shares significant
structural similarity with known chaperones. Furthermore, it is upregulated in
the brain upon overexpression of poly-glutamine expanded protein and recruited
with the chaperone Hsp70 into protein aggregates. Our results implicate NMNAT as 
a stress-response protein that acts as a chaperone for neuronal maintenance and
protection. Our studies provide an entry point for understanding how normal
neurons maintain activity, and offer clues for the common mechanisms underlying
different neurodegenerative conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06721 
PMCID: PMC3150538
PMID: 18344983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):868-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06724. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

Sophisticated particle-feeding in a large Early Cambrian crustacean.

Harvey TH(1), Butterfield NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Cambridge, Downing Street,
Cambridge, CB2 3EQ, UK. thar04@esc.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2017 Feb 9;542(7640):170-171.

Most Cambrian arthropods employed simple feeding mechanisms requiring only low
degrees of appendage differentiation. In contrast, post-Cambrian crustaceans
exhibit a wide diversity of feeding specializations and possess a vast ecological
repertoire. Crustaceans are evident in the Cambrian fossil record, but have
hitherto been known exclusively from small individuals with limited appendage
differentiation. Here we describe a sophisticated feeding apparatus from an Early
Cambrian arthropod that had a body length of several centimetres. Details of the 
mouthparts resolve this taxon as a probable crown-group (pan)crustacean, while
its feeding style, which allowed it to generate and handle fine food particles,
significantly expands the known ecological capabilities of Cambrian arthropods.
This Early Cambrian record predates the major expansions of large-bodied,
particle-handling crustaceans by at least one hundred million years, emphasizing 
the importance of ecological context in driving adaptive radiations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06724 
PMID: 18337723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):846-50. doi: 10.1038/nature06842. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

Isolation of an active step I spliceosome and composition of its RNP core.

Bessonov S(1), Anokhina M, Will CL, Urlaub H, Lührmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Biophysical
Chemistry, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Formation of catalytically active RNA structures within the spliceosome requires 
the assistance of proteins. However, little is known about the number and nature 
of proteins needed to establish and maintain the spliceosome's active site. Here 
we affinity-purified human spliceosomal C complexes and show that they catalyse
exon ligation in the absence of added factors. Comparisons of the composition of 
the precatalytic versus the catalytic spliceosome revealed a marked exchange of
proteins during the transition from the B to the C complex, with apparent
stabilization of Prp19-CDC5 complex proteins and destabilization of SF3a/b
proteins. Disruption of purified C complexes led to the isolation of a
salt-stable ribonucleoprotein (RNP) core that contained both splicing
intermediates and U2, U5 and U6 small nuclear RNA plus predominantly U5 and human
Prp19-CDC5 proteins and Prp19-related factors. Our data provide insights into the
spliceosome's catalytic RNP domain and indicate a central role for the
aforementioned proteins in sustaining its catalytically active structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06842 
PMID: 18322460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):768-72. doi: 10.1038/nature06839.

Adult T-cell progenitors retain myeloid potential.

Wada H(1), Masuda K, Satoh R, Kakugawa K, Ikawa T, Katsura Y, Kawamoto H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Lymphocyte Development, RIKEN Research Center for Allergy and
Immunology, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):702-3.

During haematopoiesis, pluripotent haematopoietic stem cells are sequentially
restricted to give rise to a variety of lineage-committed progenitors. The
classical model of haematopoiesis postulates that, in the first step of
differentiation, the stem cell generates common myelo-erythroid progenitors and
common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs). However, our previous studies in fetal mice
showed that myeloid potential persists even as the lineage branches segregate
towards T and B cells. We therefore proposed the 'myeloid-based' model of
haematopoiesis, in which the stem cell initially generates common myelo-erythroid
progenitors and common myelo-lymphoid progenitors. T-cell and B-cell progenitors 
subsequently arise from common myelo-lymphoid progenitors through myeloid-T and
myeloid-B stages, respectively. However, it has been unclear whether this
myeloid-based model is also valid for adult haematopoiesis. Here we provide
clonal evidence that the early cell populations in the adult thymus contain
progenitors that have lost the potential to generate B cells but retain
substantial macrophage potential as well as T-cell, natural killer (NK)-cell and 
dendritic-cell potential. We also show that such T-cell progenitors can give rise
to macrophages in the thymic environment in vivo. Our findings argue against the 
classical dichotomy model in which T cells are derived from CLPs; instead, they
support the validity of the myeloid-based model for both adult and fetal
haematopoiesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06839 
PMID: 18401412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):764-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06840.

The earliest thymic progenitors for T cells possess myeloid lineage potential.

Bell JJ(1), Bhandoola A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):702-3.

There exists controversy over the nature of haematopoietic progenitors of T
cells. Most T cells develop in the thymus, but the lineage potential of
thymus-colonizing progenitors is unknown. One approach to resolving this question
is to determine the lineage potentials of the earliest thymic progenitors (ETPs).
Previous work has shown that ETPs possess T and natural killer lymphoid
potentials, and rare subsets of ETPs also possess B lymphoid potential,
suggesting an origin from lymphoid-restricted progenitor cells. However, whether 
ETPs also possess myeloid potential is unknown. Here we show that nearly all ETPs
in adult mice possess both T and myeloid potential in clonal assays. The
existence of progenitors possessing T and myeloid potential within the thymus is 
incompatible with the current dominant model of haematopoiesis, in which T cells 
are proposed to arise from lymphoid-. Our results indicate that alternative
models for lineage commitment during haematopoiesis must be considered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06840 
PMID: 18401411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):759-63. doi: 10.1038/nature06859.

Endothelins are vascular-derived axonal guidance cues for developing sympathetic 
neurons.

Makita T(1), Sucov HM, Gariepy CE, Yanagisawa M, Ginty DD.

Author information: 
(1)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA.

During development, sympathetic neurons extend axons along a myriad of distinct
trajectories, often consisting of arteries, to innervate one of a large variety
of distinct final target tissues. Whether or not subsets of neurons within
complex sympathetic ganglia are predetermined to innervate select end-organs is
unknown. Here we demonstrate in mouse embryos that the endothelin family member
Edn3 (ref. 1), acting through the endothelin receptor EdnrA (refs 2, 3), directs 
extension of axons of a subset of sympathetic neurons from the superior cervical 
ganglion to a preferred intermediate target, the external carotid artery, which
serves as the gateway to select targets, including the salivary glands. These
findings establish a previously unknown mechanism of axonal pathfinding involving
vascular-derived endothelins, and have broad implications for endothelins as
general mediators of axonal growth and guidance in the developing nervous system.
Moreover, they suggest a model in which newborn sympathetic neurons distinguish
and choose between distinct vascular trajectories to innervate their appropriate 
end organs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06859 
PMCID: PMC2713667
PMID: 18401410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):755-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06782.

A plant pathogen virulence factor inhibits the eukaryotic proteasome by a novel
mechanism.

Groll M(1), Schellenberg B, Bachmann AS, Archer CR, Huber R, Powell TK, Lindow S,
Kaiser M, Dudler R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrated Protein Science at the Department Chemie, Lehrstuhl für 
Biochemie, Technische Universität München, Lichtenbergstrasse 4, Garching
D-85747, Germany.

Comment in
    Chem Biol. 2008 May;15(5):419-21.

Pathogenic bacteria often use effector molecules to increase virulence. In most
cases, the mode of action of effectors remains unknown. Strains of Pseudomonas
syringae pv. syringae (Pss) secrete syringolin A (SylA), a product of a mixed
non-ribosomal peptide/polyketide synthetase, in planta. Here we identify SylA as 
a virulence factor because a SylA-negative mutant in Pss strain B728a obtained by
gene disruption was markedly less virulent on its host, Phaseolus vulgaris
(bean). We show that SylA irreversibly inhibits all three catalytic activities of
eukaryotic proteasomes, thus adding proteasome inhibition to the repertoire of
modes of action of virulence factors. The crystal structure of the yeast
proteasome in complex with SylA revealed a novel mechanism of covalent binding to
the catalytic subunits. Thus, SylA defines a new class of proteasome inhibitors
that includes glidobactin A (GlbA), a structurally related compound from an
unknown species of the order Burkholderiales, for which we demonstrate a similar 
proteasome inhibition mechanism. As proteasome inhibitors are a promising class
of anti-tumour agents, the discovery of a novel family of inhibitory natural
products, which we refer to as syrbactins, may also have implications for the
development of anti-cancer drugs. Homologues of SylA and GlbA synthetase genes
are found in some other pathogenic bacteria, including the human pathogen
Burkholderia pseudomallei, the causative agent of melioidosis. It is thus
possible that these bacteria are capable of producing proteasome inhibitors of
the syrbactin class.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06782 
PMID: 18401409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):750-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06732.

Estimating the impact of school closure on influenza transmission from Sentinel
data.

Cauchemez S(1), Valleron AJ, Boëlle PY, Flahault A, Ferguson NM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Outbreak Analysis and Modelling, Department of Infectious
Diseases Epidemiology, Imperial College London, Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, UK.

The threat posed by the highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza virus requires public
health authorities to prepare for a human pandemic. Although pre-pandemic
vaccines and antiviral drugs might significantly reduce illness rates, their
stockpiling is too expensive to be practical for many countries. Consequently,
alternative control strategies, based on non-pharmaceutical interventions, are a 
potentially attractive policy option. School closure is the measure most often
considered. The high social and economic costs of closing schools for months make
it an expensive and therefore controversial policy, and the current absence of
quantitative data on the role of schools during influenza epidemics means there
is little consensus on the probable effectiveness of school closure in reducing
the impact of a pandemic. Here, from the joint analysis of surveillance data and 
holiday timing in France, we quantify the role of schools in influenza epidemics 
and predict the effect of school closure during a pandemic. We show that holidays
lead to a 20-29% reduction in the rate at which influenza is transmitted to
children, but that they have no detectable effect on the contact patterns of
adults. Holidays prevent 16-18% of seasonal influenza cases (18-21% in children).
By extrapolation, we find that prolonged school closure during a pandemic might
reduce the cumulative number of cases by 13-17% (18-23% in children) and peak
attack rates by up to 39-45% (47-52% in children). The impact of school closure
would be reduced if it proved difficult to maintain low contact rates among
children for a prolonged period.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06732 
PMID: 18401408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):737-40. doi: 10.1038/nature06870.

Atmospheric oxidation capacity sustained by a tropical forest.

Lelieveld J(1), Butler TM, Crowley JN, Dillon TJ, Fischer H, Ganzeveld L, Harder 
H, Lawrence MG, Martinez M, Taraborrelli D, Williams J.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, 27 Becherweg, 55128 Mainz, Germany.
lelieveld@mpch-mainz.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):701-2.

Terrestrial vegetation, especially tropical rain forest, releases vast quantities
of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) to the atmosphere, which are removed by
oxidation reactions and deposition of reaction products. The oxidation is mainly 
initiated by hydroxyl radicals (OH), primarily formed through the
photodissociation of ozone. Previously it was thought that, in unpolluted air,
biogenic VOCs deplete OH and reduce the atmospheric oxidation capacity.
Conversely, in polluted air VOC oxidation leads to noxious oxidant build-up by
the catalytic action of nitrogen oxides (NO(x) = NO + NO2). Here we report
aircraft measurements of atmospheric trace gases performed over the pristine
Amazon forest. Our data reveal unexpectedly high OH concentrations. We propose
that natural VOC oxidation, notably of isoprene, recycles OH efficiently in
low-NO(x) air through reactions of organic peroxy radicals. Computations with an 
atmospheric chemistry model and the results of laboratory experiments suggest
that an OH recycling efficiency of 40-80 per cent in isoprene oxidation may be
able to explain the high OH levels we observed in the field. Although further
laboratory studies are necessary to explore the chemical mechanism responsible
for OH recycling in more detail, our results demonstrate that the biosphere
maintains a remarkable balance with the atmospheric environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06870 
PMID: 18401407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):732-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06817.

Improper ferroelectricity in perovskite oxide artificial superlattices.

Bousquet E(1), Dawber M, Stucki N, Lichtensteiger C, Hermet P, Gariglio S,
Triscone JM, Ghosez P.

Author information: 
(1)Physique Théorique des Matériaux, Université de Liège, Allée du 6 Août 17
(B5), 4000 Sart Tilman, Belgium.

Ferroelectric thin films and superlattices are currently the subject of intensive
research because of the interest they raise for technological applications and
also because their properties are of fundamental scientific importance.
Ferroelectric superlattices allow the tuning of the ferroelectric properties
while maintaining perfect crystal structure and a coherent strain, even
throughout relatively thick samples. This tuning is achieved in practice by
adjusting both the strain, to enhance the polarization, and the composition, to
interpolate between the properties of the combined compounds. Here we show that
superlattices with very short periods possess a new form of interface coupling,
based on rotational distortions, which gives rise to 'improper' ferroelectricity.
These observations suggest an approach, based on interface engineering, to
produce artificial materials with unique properties. By considering
ferroelectric/paraelectric PbTiO3/SrTiO3 multilayers, we first show from first
principles that the ground-state of the system is not purely ferroelectric but
also primarily involves antiferrodistortive rotations of the oxygen atoms in a
way compatible with improper ferroelectricity. We then demonstrate experimentally
that, in contrast to pure PbTiO3 and SrTiO3 compounds, the multilayer system
indeed behaves like a prototypical improper ferroelectric and exhibits a very
large dielectric constant of epsilon(r) approximately 600, which is also fairly
temperature-independent. This behaviour, of practical interest for technological 
applications, is distinct from that of normal ferroelectrics, for which the
dielectric constant is typically large but strongly evolves around the phase
transition temperature and also differs from that of previously known improper
ferroelectrics that exhibit a temperature-independent but small dielectric
constant only.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06817 
PMID: 18401406 


711. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):728-31. doi: 10.1038/nature06762.

Microscopic theory of the extraordinary optical transmission.

Liu H(1), Lalanne P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Charles Fabry de l'Institut d'Optique, CNRS, Univ. Paris-Sud,
Campus Polytechnique, RD 128, 91127 Palaiseau cedex, France.

The phenomenon of extraordinary light transmission through metallic films
perforated by nanohole arrays at optical frequencies was first observed a decade 
ago and initiated important further experimental and theoretical work. In view of
potential applications of such structures--for example, subwavelength optics,
optoelectronics devices, and chemical sensing--it is important to understand the 
underlying physical processes in detail. Here we derive a microscopic theory of
the transmission through subwavelength hole arrays, by considering the elementary
processes associated with scattering of surface-plasmon-polariton (SPP) modes by 
individual one-dimensional chains of subwavelength holes. Using a SPP
coupled-mode model that coherently gathers these elementary processes, we derive 
analytical expressions for all the transmission spectrum characteristics--such as
the resonance wavelength, the peak transmission and the anti-resonance. Further
comparisons of the model predictions with fully vectorial computational results
allow us quantitatively to check the model accuracy and to discuss the respective
impacts of SPP modes and of other electromagnetic fields on producing the
extraordinary transmission of light. The model greatly expands our understanding 
of the phenomenon and may affect further engineering of nanoplasmonic devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06762 
PMID: 18401405 


712. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):724-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06873.

Thermodynamic control by frequent quantum measurements.

Erez N(1), Gordon G, Nest M, Kurizki G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, 
Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):705-6.

Heat flow between a large thermal 'bath' and a smaller system brings them
progressively closer to thermal equilibrium while increasing their entropy.
Fluctuations involving a small fraction of a statistical ensemble of systems
interacting with the bath result in deviations from this trend. In this respect, 
quantum and classical thermodynamics are in agreement. Here we predict a
different trend in a purely quantum mechanical setting: disturbances of thermal
equilibrium between two-level systems (TLSs) and a bath, caused by frequent,
brief quantum non-demolition measurements of the TLS energy states. By making the
measurements increasingly frequent, we encounter first the anti-Zeno regime and
then the Zeno regime (namely where the TLSs' relaxation respectively speeds up
and slows down). The corresponding entropy and temperature of both the system and
the bath are then found to either decrease or increase depending only on the rate
of observation, contrary to the standard thermodynamical rules that hold for
memory-less (Markov) baths. From a practical viewpoint, these anomalies may offer
the possibility of very fast control of heat and entropy in quantum systems,
allowing cooling and state purification over an interval much shorter than the
time needed for thermal equilibration or for a feedback control loop.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06873 
PMID: 18401404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):719-23. doi: 10.1038/nature06828.

Clathrin is a key regulator of basolateral polarity.

Deborde S(1), Perret E, Gravotta D, Deora A, Salvarezza S, Schreiner R,
Rodriguez-Boulan E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Dyson Vision Research Institute, LC-300, Weill
Medical College of Cornell University, 1300 York Avenue, New York, New York
10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):706-7.

Clathrin-coated vesicles are vehicles for intracellular trafficking in all
nucleated cells, from yeasts to humans. Many studies have demonstrated their
essential roles in endocytosis and cellular signalling processes at the plasma
membrane. By contrast, very few of their non-endocytic trafficking roles are
known, the best characterized being the transport of hydrolases from the Golgi
complex to the lysosome. Here we show that clathrin is required for polarity of
the basolateral plasma membrane proteins in the epithelial cell line MDCK.
Clathrin knockdown depolarized most basolateral proteins, by interfering with
their biosynthetic delivery and recycling, but did not affect the polarity of
apical proteins. Quantitative live imaging showed that chronic and acute clathrin
knockdown selectively slowed down the exit of basolateral proteins from the Golgi
complex, and promoted their mis-sorting into apical carrier vesicles. Our results
demonstrate a broad requirement for clathrin in basolateral protein trafficking
in epithelial cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06828 
PMCID: PMC4078870
PMID: 18401403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):713-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06731. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

Opposing effects of polyglutamine expansion on native protein complexes
contribute to SCA1.

Lim J(1), Crespo-Barreto J, Jafar-Nejad P, Bowman AB, Richman R, Hill DE, Orr HT,
Zoghbi HY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):707-8.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative 
disease caused by expansion of a glutamine-encoding repeat in ataxin 1 (ATXN1).
In all known polyglutamine diseases, the glutamine expansion confers toxic
functions onto the protein; however, the mechanism by which this occurs remains
enigmatic, in light of the fact that the mutant protein apparently maintains
interactions with its usual partners. Here we show that the expanded
polyglutamine tract differentially affects the function of the host protein in
the context of different endogenous protein complexes. Polyglutamine expansion in
ATXN1 favours the formation of a particular protein complex containing RBM17,
contributing to SCA1 neuropathology by means of a gain-of-function mechanism.
Concomitantly, polyglutamine expansion attenuates the formation and function of
another protein complex containing ATXN1 and capicua, contributing to SCA1
through a partial loss-of-function mechanism. This model provides mechanistic
insight into the molecular pathogenesis of SCA1 as well as other polyglutamine
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06731 
PMCID: PMC2377396
PMID: 18337722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):773-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06764. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

Impaired T(H)17 cell differentiation in subjects with autosomal dominant
hyper-IgE syndrome.

Milner JD(1), Brenchley JM, Laurence A, Freeman AF, Hill BJ, Elias KM, Kanno Y,
Spalding C, Elloumi HZ, Paulson ML, Davis J, Hsu A, Asher AI, O'Shea J, Holland
SM, Paul WE, Douek DC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA.

The autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome (HIES, 'Job's syndrome') is
characterized by recurrent and often severe pulmonary infections, pneumatoceles, 
eczema, staphylococcal abscesses, mucocutaneous candidiasis, and abnormalities of
bone and connective tissue. Mutations presumed to underlie HIES have recently
been identified in stat3, the gene encoding STAT3 (signal transducer and
activator of transcription 3) (refs 3, 4). Although impaired production of
interferon-gamma and tumour-necrosis factor by T cells, diminished memory T-cell 
populations, decreased delayed-type-hypersensitivity responses and decreased in
vitro lymphoproliferation in response to specific antigens have variably been
described, specific immunological abnormalities that can explain the unique
susceptibility to particular infections seen in HIES have not yet been defined.
Here we show that interleukin (IL)-17 production by T cells is absent in HIES
individuals. We observed that ex vivo T cells from subjects with HIES failed to
produce IL-17, but not IL-2, tumour-necrosis factor or interferon-gamma, on
mitogenic stimulation with staphylococcal enterotoxin B or on antigenic
stimulation with Candida albicans or streptokinase. Purified naive T cells were
unable to differentiate into IL-17-producing (T(H)17) T helper cells in vitro and
had lower expression of retinoid-related orphan receptor (ROR)-gammat, which is
consistent with a crucial role for STAT3 signalling in the generation of T(H)17
cells. T(H)17 cells have emerged as an important subset of helper T cells that
are believed to be critical in the clearance of fungal and extracellular
bacterial infections. Thus, our data suggest that the inability to produce T(H)17
cells is a mechanism underlying the susceptibility to the recurrent infections
commonly seen in HIES.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06764 
PMCID: PMC2864108
PMID: 18337720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):741-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06776. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

SAR11 marine bacteria require exogenous reduced sulphur for growth.

Tripp HJ(1), Kitner JB, Schwalbach MS, Dacey JW, Wilhelm LJ, Giovannoni SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, 220 Nash Hall, Oregon State University, Corvallis,
Oregon 97331, USA.

Sulphur is a universally required cell nutrient found in two amino acids and
other small organic molecules. All aerobic marine bacteria are known to use
assimilatory sulphate reduction to supply sulphur for biosynthesis, although many
can assimilate sulphur from organic compounds that contain reduced sulphur atoms.
An analysis of three complete 'Candidatus Pelagibacter ubique' genomes, and
public ocean metagenomic data sets, suggested that members of the ubiquitous and 
abundant SAR11 alphaproteobacterial clade are deficient in assimilatory sulphate 
reduction genes. Here we show that SAR11 requires exogenous sources of reduced
sulphur, such as methionine or 3-dimethylsulphoniopropionate (DMSP) for growth.
Titrations of the algal osmolyte DMSP in seawater medium containing all other
macronutrients in excess showed that 1.5 x 10(8) SAR11 cells are produced per
nanomole of DMSP. Although it has been shown that other marine
alphaproteobacteria use sulphur from DMSP in preference to sulphate, our results 
indicate that 'Cand. P. ubique' relies exclusively on reduced sulphur compounds
that originate from other plankton.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06776 
PMID: 18337719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nature. 2008 Apr 10;452(7188):745-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06614. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

Broad phylogenomic sampling improves resolution of the animal tree of life.

Dunn CW(1), Hejnol A, Matus DQ, Pang K, Browne WE, Smith SA, Seaver E, Rouse GW, 
Obst M, Edgecombe GD, Sørensen MV, Haddock SH, Schmidt-Rhaesa A, Okusu A,
Kristensen RM, Wheeler WC, Martindale MQ, Giribet G.

Author information: 
(1)Kewalo Marine Laboratory, PBRC, University of Hawaii, 41 Ahui Street,
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813, USA. casey_dunn@brown.edu

Long-held ideas regarding the evolutionary relationships among animals have
recently been upended by sometimes controversial hypotheses based largely on
insights from molecular data. These new hypotheses include a clade of moulting
animals (Ecdysozoa) and the close relationship of the lophophorates to molluscs
and annelids (Lophotrochozoa). Many relationships remain disputed, including
those that are required to polarize key features of character evolution, and
support for deep nodes is often low. Phylogenomic approaches, which use data from
many genes, have shown promise for resolving deep animal relationships, but are
hindered by a lack of data from many important groups. Here we report a total of 
39.9 Mb of expressed sequence tags from 29 animals belonging to 21 phyla,
including 11 phyla previously lacking genomic or expressed-sequence-tag data.
Analysed in combination with existing sequences, our data reinforce several
previously identified clades that split deeply in the animal tree (including
Protostomia, Ecdysozoa and Lophotrochozoa), unambiguously resolve multiple
long-standing issues for which there was strong conflicting support in earlier
studies with less data (such as velvet worms rather than tardigrades as the
sister group of arthropods), and provide molecular support for the monophyly of
molluscs, a group long recognized by morphologists. In addition, we find strong
support for several new hypotheses. These include a clade that unites annelids
(including sipunculans and echiurans) with nemerteans, phoronids and brachiopods,
molluscs as sister to that assemblage, and the placement of ctenophores as the
earliest diverging extant multicellular animals. A single origin of spiral
cleavage (with subsequent losses) is inferred from well-supported nodes. Many
relationships between a stable subset of taxa find strong support, and a
diminishing number of lineages remain recalcitrant to placement on the tree.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06614 
PMID: 18322464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):650-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06835.

Cutaneous cancer stem cell maintenance is dependent on beta-catenin signalling.

Malanchi I(1), Peinado H, Kassen D, Hussenet T, Metzger D, Chambon P, Huber M,
Hohl D, Cano A, Birchmeier W, Huelsken J.

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne/ISREC (Swiss Institute for
Experimental Cancer Research) and National Center of Competence in Research
Molecular Oncology, Chemin des Boveresses 155, 1066 Epalinges, Switzerland.

Continuous turnover of epithelia is ensured by the extensive self-renewal
capacity of tissue-specific stem cells. Similarly, epithelial tumour maintenance 
relies on cancer stem cells (CSCs), which co-opt stem cell properties. For most
tumours, the cellular origin of these CSCs and regulatory pathways essential for 
sustaining stemness have not been identified. In murine skin, follicular
morphogenesis is driven by bulge stem cells that specifically express CD34. Here 
we identify a population of cells in early epidermal tumours characterized by
phenotypic and functional similarities to normal bulge skin stem cells. This
population contains CSCs, which are the only cells with tumour initiation
properties. Transplants derived from these CSCs preserve the hierarchical
organization of the primary tumour. We describe beta-catenin signalling as being 
essential in sustaining the CSC phenotype. Ablation of the beta-catenin gene
results in the loss of CSCs and complete tumour regression. In addition, we
provide evidence for the involvement of increased beta-catenin signalling in
malignant human squamous cell carcinomas. Because Wnt/beta-catenin signalling is 
not essential for normal epidermal homeostasis, such a mechanistic difference may
thus be targeted to eliminate CSCs and consequently eradicate squamous cell
carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06835 
PMID: 18385740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):638-642. doi: 10.1038/nature06846.

A variant associated with nicotine dependence, lung cancer and peripheral
arterial disease.

Thorgeirsson TE(#)(1), Geller F(#)(1), Sulem P(#)(1), Rafnar T(#)(1), Wiste
A(1)(2), Magnusson KP(1), Manolescu A(1), Thorleifsson G(1), Stefansson H(1),
Ingason A(1), Stacey SN(1), Bergthorsson JT(1), Thorlacius S(1), Gudmundsson
J(1), Jonsson T(1), Jakobsdottir M(1), Saemundsdottir J(1), Olafsdottir O(1),
Gudmundsson LJ(1), Bjornsdottir G(1), Kristjansson K(1), Skuladottir H(3),
Isaksson HJ(4), Gudbjartsson T(5), Jones GT(6), Mueller T(7), Gottsäter A(8),
Flex A(9), Aben KKH(10)(11), de Vegt F(10), Mulders PFA(12), Isla D(13), Vidal
MJ(13), Asin L(14), Saez B(15), Murillo L(16), Blondal T(17), Kolbeinsson H(18), 
Stefansson JG(18), Hansdottir I(19), Runarsdottir V(19), Pola R(9), Lindblad
B(8), van Rij AM(6), Dieplinger B(7), Haltmayer M(7), Mayordomo JI(13)(14)(15),
Kiemeney LA(10)(11)(12), Matthiasson SE(20), Oskarsson H(21), Tyrfingsson T(19), 
Gudbjartsson DF(1), Gulcher JR(1), Jonsson S(22), Thorsteinsdottir U(1)(20), Kong
A(1), Stefansson K(1)(20).

Author information: 
(1)deCODE Genetics, Reykjavik Iceland.
(2)Emory University, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Atlanta,
GA US.
(3)Landspitali University Hospital, Department of Medical Oncology, Reykjavik
Iceland.
(4)Landspitali University Hospital, Department of Pathology, Reykjavik Iceland.
(5)Landspitali University Hospital, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Reykjavik Iceland.
(6)Department of Surgery, Dunedin School of Medicine, University of Otago, New
Zealand.
(7)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Konventhospital Barmherzige Brueder, Linz, 
Austria.
(8)Center for Vascular Diseases, University Hospital. MAS, Malmö, Sweden.
(9)Laboratory of Vascular Biology & Genetics, A. Gemelli University
Hospital,Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore School of Medicine, Rome, Italy.
(10)Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Department of Epidemiology &
Biostatistics, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(11)Comprehensive Cancer Center East, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(12)Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Department of Urology, Nijmegen, 
Netherlands.
(13)University Hospital, Division of Medical Oncology, Zaragoza Spain.
(14)Nanotechnology Institute of Aragon, Zaragoza Spain.
(15)Health Science Institute, Zaragoza Spain.
(16)Hospital Reina Sofia, Division of Medical Oncology, Tudela Spain.
(17)Reykjavik Primary Health Care Centre, Department of Lung Disease, Reykjavik
Iceland.
(18)Landspitali University Hospital, Department of General Adult Psychiatry,
Reykjavik Iceland.
(19)Vogur SAA Addiction Treatment Center, Reykjavik Iceland.
(20)University of Iceland, School of Medicine, Reykjavik Iceland.
(21)Therapeia, Reykjavik Iceland.
(22)Landspitali University Hospital, Department of Medicine, Reykjavik Iceland.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):537-8.

Smoking is a leading cause of preventable death, causing about 5 million
premature deaths worldwide each year. Evidence for genetic influence on smoking
behaviour and nicotine dependence (ND) has prompted a search for susceptibility
genes. Furthermore, assessing the impact of sequence variants on smoking-related 
diseases is important to public health. Smoking is the major risk factor for lung
cancer (LC) and is one of the main risk factors for peripheral arterial disease
(PAD). Here we identify a common variant in the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor 
gene cluster on chromosome 15q24 with an effect on smoking quantity, ND and the
risk of two smoking-related diseases in populations of European descent. The
variant has an effect on the number of cigarettes smoked per day in our sample of
smokers. The same variant was associated with ND in a previous genome-wide
association study that used low-quantity smokers as controls, and with a similar 
approach we observe a highly significant association with ND. A comparison of
cases of LC and PAD with population controls each showed that the variant confers
risk of LC and PAD. The findings provide a case study of a gene-environment
interaction, highlighting the role of nicotine addiction in the pathology of
other serious diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06846 
PMCID: PMC4539558
PMID: 18385739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):633-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06885.

A susceptibility locus for lung cancer maps to nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
subunit genes on 15q25.

Hung RJ(1), McKay JD, Gaborieau V, Boffetta P, Hashibe M, Zaridze D, Mukeria A,
Szeszenia-Dabrowska N, Lissowska J, Rudnai P, Fabianova E, Mates D, Bencko V,
Foretova L, Janout V, Chen C, Goodman G, Field JK, Liloglou T, Xinarianos G,
Cassidy A, McLaughlin J, Liu G, Narod S, Krokan HE, Skorpen F, Elvestad MB, Hveem
K, Vatten L, Linseisen J, Clavel-Chapelon F, Vineis P, Bueno-de-Mesquita HB, Lund
E, Martinez C, Bingham S, Rasmuson T, Hainaut P, Riboli E, Ahrens W, Benhamou S, 
Lagiou P, Trichopoulos D, Holcátová I, Merletti F, Kjaerheim K, Agudo A,
Macfarlane G, Talamini R, Simonato L, Lowry R, Conway DI, Znaor A, Healy C,
Zelenika D, Boland A, Delepine M, Foglio M, Lechner D, Matsuda F, Blanche H, Gut 
I, Heath S, Lathrop M, Brennan P.

Author information: 
(1)International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), Lyon 69008, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):537-8.

Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death worldwide, with over one
million cases annually. To identify genetic factors that modify disease risk, we 
conducted a genome-wide association study by analysing 317,139 single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms in 1,989 lung cancer cases and 2,625 controls from six central
European countries. We identified a locus in chromosome region 15q25 that was
strongly associated with lung cancer (P = 9 x 10(-10)). This locus was replicated
in five separate lung cancer studies comprising an additional 2,513 lung cancer
cases and 4,752 controls (P = 5 x 10(-20) overall), and it was found to account
for 14% (attributable risk) of lung cancer cases. Statistically similar risks
were observed irrespective of smoking status or propensity to smoke tobacco. The 
association region contains several genes, including three that encode nicotinic 
acetylcholine receptor subunits (CHRNA5, CHRNA3 and CHRNB4). Such subunits are
expressed in neurons and other tissues, in particular alveolar epithelial cells, 
pulmonary neuroendocrine cells and lung cancer cell lines, and they bind to
N'-nitrosonornicotine and potential lung carcinogens. A non-synonymous variant of
CHRNA5 that induces an amino acid substitution (D398N) at a highly conserved site
in the second intracellular loop of the protein is among the markers with the
strongest disease associations. Our results provide compelling evidence of a
locus at 15q25 predisposing to lung cancer, and reinforce interest in nicotinic
acetylcholine receptors as potential disease candidates and chemopreventative
targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06885 
PMID: 18385738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):620-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06824.

Absolute plate motions and true polar wander in the absence of hotspot tracks.

Steinberger B(1), Torsvik TH.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Geodynamics, Geological Survey of Norway, Leiv Eirikssons vei 39,
7491 Trondheim, Norway. bernhard.steinberger@ngu.no

The motion of continents relative to the Earth's spin axis may be due either to
rotation of the entire Earth relative to its spin axis--true polar wander--or to 
the motion of individual plates. In order to distinguish between these over the
past 320 Myr (since the formation of the Pangaea supercontinent), we present here
computations of the global average of continental motion and rotation through
time in a palaeomagnetic reference frame. Two components are identified: a steady
northward motion and, during certain time intervals, clockwise and anticlockwise 
rotations, interpreted as evidence for true polar wander. We find approximately
18 degrees anticlockwise rotation about 250-220 Myr ago and the same amount of
clockwise rotation about 195-145 Myr ago. In both cases the rotation axis is
located at about 10-20 degrees W, 0 degrees N, near the site that became the
North American-South American-African triple junction at the break-up of Pangaea.
This was followed by approximately 10 degrees clockwise rotation about 145-135
Myr ago, followed again by the same amount of anticlockwise rotation about
110-100 Myr ago, with a rotation axis in both cases approximately 25-50 degrees E
in the reconstructed area of North Africa and Arabia. These rotation axes mark
the maxima of the degree-two non-hydrostatic geoid during those time intervals,
and the fact that the overall net rotation since 320 Myr ago is nearly zero is an
indication of long-term stability of the degree-two geoid and related mantle
structure. We propose a new reference frame, based on palaeomagnetism, but
corrected for the true polar wander identified in this study, appropriate for
relating surface to deep mantle processes from 320 Myr ago until hotspot tracks
can be used (about 130 Myr ago).

DOI: 10.1038/nature06824 
PMID: 18385737 


722. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):616-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06763.

Dust-climate couplings over the past 800,000 years from the EPICA Dome C ice
core.

Lambert F(1), Delmonte B, Petit JR, Bigler M, Kaufmann PR, Hutterli MA, Stocker
TF, Ruth U, Steffensen JP, Maggi V.

Author information: 
(1)Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern,
Sidlerstrasse 5, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.

Dust can affect the radiative balance of the atmosphere by absorbing or
reflecting incoming solar radiation; it can also be a source of micronutrients,
such as iron, to the ocean. It has been suggested that production, transport and 
deposition of dust is influenced by climatic changes on glacial-interglacial
timescales. Here we present a high-resolution record of aeolian dust from the
EPICA Dome C ice core in East Antarctica, which provides an undisturbed climate
sequence over the past eight climatic cycles. We find that there is a significant
correlation between dust flux and temperature records during glacial periods that
is absent during interglacial periods. Our data suggest that dust flux is
increasingly correlated with Antarctic temperature as the climate becomes colder.
We interpret this as progressive coupling of the climates of Antarctic and lower 
latitudes. Limited changes in glacial-interglacial atmospheric transport time
suggest that the sources and lifetime of dust are the main factors controlling
the high glacial dust input. We propose that the observed approximately 25-fold
increase in glacial dust flux over all eight glacial periods can be attributed to
a strengthening of South American dust sources, together with a longer lifetime
for atmospheric dust particles in the upper troposphere resulting from a reduced 
hydrological cycle during the ice ages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06763 
PMID: 18385736 


723. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):613-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06837.

Superinsulator and quantum synchronization.

Vinokur VM(1), Baturina TI, Fistul MV, Mironov AY, Baklanov MR, Strunk C.

Author information: 
(1)Material Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois
60439, USA. vinokour@anl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):542-3.

Synchronized oscillators are ubiquitous in nature, and synchronization plays a
key part in various classical and quantum phenomena. Several experiments have
shown that in thin superconducting films, disorder enforces the droplet-like
electronic texture--superconducting islands immersed into a normal matrix--and
that tuning disorder drives the system from superconducting to insulating
behaviour. In the vicinity of the transition, a distinct state forms: a
Cooper-pair insulator, with thermally activated conductivity. It results from
synchronization of the phase of the superconducting order parameter at the
islands across the whole system. Here we show that at a certain finite
temperature, a Cooper--air insulator undergoes a transition to a superinsulating 
state with infinite resistance. We present experimental evidence of this
transition in titanium nitride films and show that the superinsulating state is
dual to the superconducting state: it is destroyed by a sufficiently strong
critical magnetic field, and breaks down at some critical voltage that is
analogous to the critical current in superconductors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06837 
PMID: 18385735 


724. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):610-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06854.

A laser frequency comb that enables radial velocity measurements with a precision
of 1 cm s(-1).

Li CH(1), Benedick AJ, Fendel P, Glenday AG, Kärtner FX, Phillips DF, Sasselov D,
Szentgyorgyi A, Walsworth RL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):538-9.

Searches for extrasolar planets using the periodic Doppler shift of stellar
spectral lines have recently achieved a precision of 60 cm s(-1) (ref. 1), which 
is sufficient to find a 5-Earth-mass planet in a Mercury-like orbit around a
Sun-like star. To find a 1-Earth-mass planet in an Earth-like orbit, a precision 
of approximately 5 cm s(-1) is necessary. The combination of a laser frequency
comb with a Fabry-Pérot filtering cavity has been suggested as a promising
approach to achieve such Doppler shift resolution via improved spectrograph
wavelength calibration, with recent encouraging results. Here we report the
fabrication of such a filtered laser comb with up to 40-GHz (approximately 1-A)
line spacing, generated from a 1-GHz repetition-rate source, without compromising
long-term stability, reproducibility or spectral resolution. This
wide-line-spacing comb, or 'astro-comb', is well matched to the resolving power
of high-resolution astrophysical spectrographs. The astro-comb should allow a
precision as high as 1 cm s(-1) in astronomical radial velocity measurements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06854 
PMID: 18385734 


725. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):604-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06836.

A nuclear receptor-like pathway regulating multidrug resistance in fungi.

Thakur JK(1), Arthanari H, Yang F, Pan SJ, Fan X, Breger J, Frueh DP, Gulshan K, 
Li DK, Mylonakis E, Struhl K, Moye-Rowley WS, Cormack BP, Wagner G, Näär AM.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Charlestown, Massachusetts
02129, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):541-2.

Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a serious complication during treatment of
opportunistic fungal infections that frequently afflict immunocompromised
individuals, such as transplant recipients and cancer patients undergoing
cytotoxic chemotherapy. Improved knowledge of the molecular pathways controlling 
MDR in pathogenic fungi should facilitate the development of novel therapies to
combat these intransigent infections. MDR is often caused by upregulation of drug
efflux pumps by members of the fungal zinc-cluster transcription-factor family
(for example Pdr1p orthologues). However, the molecular mechanisms are poorly
understood. Here we show that Pdr1p family members in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
and the human pathogen Candida glabrata directly bind to structurally diverse
drugs and xenobiotics, resulting in stimulated expression of drug efflux pumps
and induction of MDR. Notably, this is mechanistically similar to regulation of
MDR in vertebrates by the PXR nuclear receptor, revealing an unexpected
functional analogy of fungal and metazoan regulators of MDR. We have also
uncovered a critical and specific role of the Gal11p/MED15 subunit of the
Mediator co-activator and its activator-targeted KIX domain in
antifungal/xenobiotic-dependent regulation of MDR. This detailed mechanistic
understanding of a fungal nuclear receptor-like gene regulatory pathway provides 
novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of multidrug-resistant fungal
infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06836 
PMID: 18385733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):580-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06917.

Imaging in the era of molecular oncology.

Weissleder R(1), Pittet MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185 Cambridge
Street, CPZN 5206, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

New technologies for imaging molecules, particularly optical technologies, are
increasingly being used to understand the complexity, diversity and in vivo
behaviour of cancers. 'Omic' approaches are providing comprehensive 'snapshots'
of biological indicators, or biomarkers, of cancer, but imaging can take this
information a step further, showing the activity of these markers in vivo and how
their location changes over time. Advances in experimental and clinical imaging
are likely to improve how cancer is understood at a systems level and,
ultimately, should enable doctors not only to locate tumours but also to assess
the activity of the biological processes within these tumours and to provide 'on 
the spot' treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06917 
PMCID: PMC2708079
PMID: 18385732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):571-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06916.

Mining the plasma proteome for cancer biomarkers.

Hanash SM(1), Pitteri SJ, Faca VM.

Author information: 
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100 Fairview Avenue North, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.

Systematic searches for plasma proteins that are biological indicators, or
biomarkers, for cancer are underway. The difficulties caused by the complexity of
biological-fluid proteomes and tissue proteomes (which contribute proteins to
plasma) and by the extensive heterogeneity among diseases, subjects and levels of
sample procurement are gradually being overcome. This is being achieved through
rigorous experimental design and in-depth quantitative studies. The expected
outcome is the development of panels of biomarkers that will allow early
detection of cancer and prediction of the probable response to therapy. Achieving
these objectives requires high-quality specimens with well-matched controls,
reagent resources, and an efficient process to confirm discoveries through
independent validation studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06916 
PMID: 18385731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):564-70. doi: 10.1038/nature06915.

Enabling personalized cancer medicine through analysis of gene-expression
patterns.

van't Veer LJ(1), Bernards R.

Author information: 
(1)Agendia BV, Louwesweg 6, 1066 EC Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Therapies for patients with cancer have changed gradually over the past decade,
moving away from the administration of broadly acting cytotoxic drugs towards the
use of more-specific therapies that are targeted to each tumour. To facilitate
this shift, tests need to be developed to identify those individuals who require 
therapy and those who are most likely to benefit from certain therapies. In
particular, tests that predict the clinical outcome for patients on the basis of 
the genes expressed by their tumours are likely to increasingly affect patient
management, heralding a new era of personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06915 
PMID: 18385730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):553-63. doi: 10.1038/nature06914.

Translating insights from the cancer genome into clinical practice.

Chin L(1), Gray JW.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School, 44 Binney Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. lynda_chin@dfci.harvard.edu

Cancer cells have diverse biological capabilities that are conferred by numerous 
genetic aberrations and epigenetic modifications. Today's powerful technologies
are enabling these changes to the genome to be catalogued in detail. Tomorrow is 
likely to bring a complete atlas of the reversible and irreversible alterations
that occur in individual cancers. The challenge now is to work out which
molecular abnormalities contribute to cancer and which are simply 'noise' at the 
genomic and epigenomic levels. Distinguishing between these will aid in
understanding how the aberrations in a cancer cell collaborate to drive
pathophysiology. Past successes in converting information from genomic
discoveries into clinical tools provide valuable lessons to guide the translation
of emerging insights from the genome into clinical end points that can affect the
practice of cancer medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06914 
PMCID: PMC2730524
PMID: 18385729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):548-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06913.

The cancer biomarker problem.

Sawyers CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program,
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York
10065, USA.

Genomic technologies offer the promise of a comprehensive understanding of
cancer. These technologies are being used to characterize tumours at the
molecular level, and several clinical successes have shown that such information 
can guide the design of drugs targeted to a relevant molecule. One of the main
barriers to further progress is identifying the biological indicators, or
biomarkers, of cancer that predict who will benefit from a particular targeted
therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06913 
PMID: 18385728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):591-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06765. Epub 2008 Mar 26.

Sequence- and target-independent angiogenesis suppression by siRNA via TLR3.

Kleinman ME(1), Yamada K, Takeda A, Chandrasekaran V, Nozaki M, Baffi JZ,
Albuquerque RJ, Yamasaki S, Itaya M, Pan Y, Appukuttan B, Gibbs D, Yang Z, Karikó
K, Ambati BK, Wilgus TA, DiPietro LA, Sakurai E, Zhang K, Smith JR, Taylor EW,
Ambati J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky
40506, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):543-5.

Clinical trials of small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting vascular endothelial
growth factor-A (VEGFA) or its receptor VEGFR1 (also called FLT1), in patients
with blinding choroidal neovascularization (CNV) from age-related macular
degeneration, are premised on gene silencing by means of intracellular RNA
interference (RNAi). We show instead that CNV inhibition is a siRNA-class effect:
21-nucleotide or longer siRNAs targeting non-mammalian genes, non-expressed
genes, non-genomic sequences, pro- and anti-angiogenic genes, and
RNAi-incompetent siRNAs all suppressed CNV in mice comparably to siRNAs targeting
Vegfa or Vegfr1 without off-target RNAi or interferon-alpha/beta activation.
Non-targeted (against non-mammalian genes) and targeted (against Vegfa or Vegfr1)
siRNA suppressed CNV via cell-surface toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), its adaptor
TRIF, and induction of interferon-gamma and interleukin-12. Non-targeted siRNA
suppressed dermal neovascularization in mice as effectively as Vegfa siRNA.
siRNA-induced inhibition of neovascularization required a minimum length of 21
nucleotides, a bridging necessity in a modelled 2:1 TLR3-RNA complex. Choroidal
endothelial cells from people expressing the TLR3 coding variant 412FF were
refractory to extracellular siRNA-induced cytotoxicity, facilitating
individualized pharmacogenetic therapy. Multiple human endothelial cell types
expressed surface TLR3, indicating that generic siRNAs might treat angiogenic
disorders that affect 8% of the world's population, and that siRNAs might induce 
unanticipated vascular or immune effects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06765 
PMCID: PMC2642938
PMID: 18368052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):646-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06778. Epub 2008 Mar 16.

Tumour maintenance is mediated by eNOS.

Lim KH(1), Ancrile BB, Kashatus DF, Counter CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Tumour cells become addicted to the expression of initiating oncogenes like Ras, 
such that loss of oncogene expression in established tumours leads to tumour
regression. HRas, NRas or KRas are mutated to remain in the active GTP-bound
oncogenic state in many cancers. Although Ras activates several proteins to
initiate human tumour growth, only PI3K, through activation of protein kinase B
(PKB; also known as AKT), must remain activated by oncogenic Ras to maintain this
growth. Here we show that blocking phosphorylation of the AKT substrate,
endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS or NOS3), inhibits tumour initiation and 
maintenance. Moreover, eNOS enhances the nitrosylation and activation of
endogenous wild-type Ras proteins, which are required throughout tumorigenesis.
We suggest that activation of the PI3K-AKT-eNOS-(wild-type) Ras pathway by
oncogenic Ras in cancer cells is required to initiate and maintain tumour growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06778 
PMCID: PMC2688829
PMID: 18344980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):642-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06814. Epub 2008 Mar 16.

A neural representation of depth from motion parallax in macaque visual cortex.

Nadler JW(1), Angelaki DE, DeAngelis GC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Perception of depth is a fundamental challenge for the visual system,
particularly for observers moving through their environment. The brain makes use 
of multiple visual cues to reconstruct the three-dimensional structure of a
scene. One potent cue, motion parallax, frequently arises during translation of
the observer because the images of objects at different distances move across the
retina with different velocities. Human psychophysical studies have demonstrated 
that motion parallax can be a powerful depth cue, and motion parallax seems to be
heavily exploited by animal species that lack highly developed binocular vision. 
However, little is known about the neural mechanisms that underlie this capacity.
Here we show, by using a virtual-reality system to translate macaque monkeys
(Macaca mulatta) while they viewed motion parallax displays that simulated
objects at different depths, that many neurons in the middle temporal area (area 
MT) signal the sign of depth (near versus far) from motion parallax in the
absence of other depth cues. To achieve this, neurons must combine visual motion 
with extra-retinal (non-visual) signals related to the animal's movement. Our
findings suggest a new neural substrate for depth perception and demonstrate a
robust interaction of visual and non-visual cues in area MT. Combined with
previous studies that implicate area MT in depth perception based on binocular
disparities, our results suggest that area MT contains a more general
representation of three-dimensional space that makes use of multiple cues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06814 
PMCID: PMC2422877
PMID: 18344979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):629-32. doi: 10.1038/nature06810. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

Functional metagenomic profiling of nine biomes.

Dinsdale EA(1), Edwards RA, Hall D, Angly F, Breitbart M, Brulc JM, Furlan M,
Desnues C, Haynes M, Li L, McDaniel L, Moran MA, Nelson KE, Nilsson C, Olson R,
Paul J, Brito BR, Ruan Y, Swan BK, Stevens R, Valentine DL, Thurber RV, Wegley L,
White BA, Rohwer F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, San Diego, California
92182, USA. elizabeth_dinsdale@hotmail.com

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):830.

Microbial activities shape the biogeochemistry of the planet and macroorganism
health. Determining the metabolic processes performed by microbes is important
both for understanding and for manipulating ecosystems (for example, disruption
of key processes that lead to disease, conservation of environmental services,
and so on). Describing microbial function is hampered by the inability to culture
most microbes and by high levels of genomic plasticity. Metagenomic approaches
analyse microbial communities to determine the metabolic processes that are
important for growth and survival in any given environment. Here we conduct a
metagenomic comparison of almost 15 million sequences from 45 distinct
microbiomes and, for the first time, 42 distinct viromes and show that there are 
strongly discriminatory metabolic profiles across environments. Most of the
functional diversity was maintained in all of the communities, but the relative
occurrence of metabolisms varied, and the differences between metagenomes
predicted the biogeochemical conditions of each environment. The magnitude of the
microbial metabolic capabilities encoded by the viromes was extensive, suggesting
that they serve as a repository for storing and sharing genes among their
microbial hosts and influence global evolutionary and metabolic processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06810 
PMID: 18337718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):598-603. doi: 10.1038/nature06716. Epub 2008 Mar 9.

Following translation by single ribosomes one codon at a time.

Wen JD(1), Lancaster L, Hodges C, Zeri AC, Yoshimura SH, Noller HF, Bustamante C,
Tinoco I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

We have followed individual ribosomes as they translate single messenger RNA
hairpins tethered by the ends to optical tweezers. Here we reveal that
translation occurs through successive translocation--and-pause cycles. The
distribution of pause lengths, with a median of 2.8 s, indicates that at least
two rate-determining processes control each pause. Each translocation step
measures three bases--one codon-and occurs in less than 0.1 s. Analysis of the
times required for translocation reveals, surprisingly, that there are three
substeps in each step. Pause lengths, and thus the overall rate of translation,
depend on the secondary structure of the mRNA; the applied force destabilizes
secondary structure and decreases pause durations, but does not affect
translocation times. Translocation and RNA unwinding are strictly coupled
ribosomal functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06716 
PMCID: PMC2556548
PMID: 18327250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):624-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06606. Epub 2008 Mar 2.

Localization and functionality of microsporidian iron-sulphur cluster assembly
proteins.

Goldberg AV(1), Molik S, Tsaousis AD, Neumann K, Kuhnke G, Delbac F, Vivares CP, 
Hirt RP, Lill R, Embley TM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences, The Catherine Cookson Building, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

Microsporidia are highly specialized obligate intracellular parasites of other
eukaryotes (including humans) that show extreme reduction at the molecular,
cellular and biochemical level. Although microsporidia have long been considered 
as early branching eukaryotes that lack mitochondria, they have recently been
shown to contain a tiny mitochondrial remnant called a mitosome. The function of 
the mitosome is unknown, because microsporidians lack the genes for canonical
mitochondrial functions, such as aerobic respiration and haem biosynthesis.
However, microsporidial genomes encode several components of the mitochondrial
iron-sulphur (Fe-S) cluster assembly machinery. Here we provide experimental
insights into the metabolic function and localization of these proteins. We
cloned, functionally characterized and localized homologues of several central
mitochondrial Fe-S cluster assembly components for the microsporidians
Encephalitozoon cuniculi and Trachipleistophora hominis. Several microsporidial
proteins can functionally replace their yeast counterparts in Fe-S protein
biogenesis. In E. cuniculi, the iron (frataxin) and sulphur (cysteine
desulphurase, Nfs1) donors and the scaffold protein (Isu1) co-localize with
mitochondrial Hsp70 to the mitosome, consistent with it being the functional site
for Fe-S cluster biosynthesis. In T. hominis, mitochondrial Hsp70 and the
essential sulphur donor (Nfs1) are still in the mitosome, but surprisingly the
main pools of Isu1 and frataxin are cytosolic, creating a conundrum of how these 
key components of Fe-S cluster biosynthesis coordinate their function. Together, 
our studies identify the essential biosynthetic process of Fe-S protein assembly 
as a key function of microsporidian mitosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06606 
PMID: 18311129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Nature. 2008 Apr 3;452(7187):654-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06663. Epub 2008 Feb 27.

Dendritic cell PAR1-S1P3 signalling couples coagulation and inflammation.

Niessen F(1), Schaffner F, Furlan-Freguia C, Pawlinski R, Bhattacharjee G, Chun
J, Derian CK, Andrade-Gordon P, Rosen H, Ruf W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California
92037, USA.

Defining critical points of modulation across heterogeneous clinical syndromes
may provide insight into new therapeutic approaches. Coagulation initiated by the
cytokine-receptor family member known as tissue factor is a hallmark of systemic 
inflammatory response syndromes in bacterial sepsis and viral haemorrhagic
fevers, and anticoagulants can be effective in severe sepsis with disseminated
intravascular coagulation. The precise mechanism coupling coagulation and
inflammation remains unresolved. Here we show that protease-activated receptor 1 
(PAR1) signalling sustains a lethal inflammatory response that can be interrupted
by inhibition of either thrombin or PAR1 signalling. The sphingosine 1-phosphate 
(S1P) axis is a downstream component of PAR1 signalling, and by combining
chemical and genetic probes for S1P receptor 3 (S1P3) we show a critical role for
dendritic cell PAR1-S1P3 cross-talk in regulating amplification of inflammation
in sepsis syndrome. Conversely, dendritic cells sustain escalated systemic
coagulation and are the primary hub at which coagulation and inflammation
intersect within the lymphatic compartment. Loss of dendritic cell PAR1-S1P3
signalling sequesters dendritic cells and inflammation into draining lymph nodes,
and attenuates dissemination of interleukin-1beta to the lungs. Thus, activation 
of dendritic cells by coagulation in the lymphatics emerges as a previously
unknown mechanism that promotes systemic inflammation and lethality in
decompensated innate immune responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06663 
PMID: 18305483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):478-82. doi: 10.1038/nature06739.

Molecular identification of a retinal cell type that responds to upward motion.

Kim IJ(1), Zhang Y, Yamagata M, Meister M, Sanes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

The retina contains complex circuits of neurons that extract salient information 
from visual inputs. Signals from photoreceptors are processed by retinal
interneurons, integrated by retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and sent to the brain
by RGC axons. Distinct types of RGC respond to different visual features, such as
increases or decreases in light intensity (ON and OFF cells, respectively),
colour or moving objects. Thus, RGCs comprise a set of parallel pathways from the
eye to the brain. The identification of molecular markers for RGC subsets will
facilitate attempts to correlate their structure with their function, assess
their synaptic inputs and targets, and study their diversification. Here we show,
by means of a transgenic marking method, that junctional adhesion molecule B
(JAM-B) marks a previously unrecognized class of OFF RGCs in mice. These cells
have asymmetric dendritic arbors aligned in a dorsal-to-ventral direction across 
the retina. Their receptive fields are also asymmetric and respond selectively to
stimuli moving in a soma-to-dendrite direction; because the lens reverses the
image of the world on the retina, these cells detect upward motion in the visual 
field. Thus, JAM-B identifies a unique population of RGCs in which structure
corresponds remarkably to function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06739 
PMID: 18368118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):470-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06756.

Pleiotropic scaling of gene effects and the 'cost of complexity'.

Wagner GP(1), Kenney-Hunt JP, Pavlicev M, Peck JR, Waxman D, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520-8106, USA. gunter.wagner@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Dec 4;456(7222):E3; discussion E4.

As perceived by Darwin, evolutionary adaptation by the processes of mutation and 
selection is difficult to understand for complex features that are the product of
numerous traits acting in concert, for example the eye or the apparatus of
flight. Typically, mutations simultaneously affect multiple phenotypic
characters. This phenomenon is known as pleiotropy. The impact of pleiotropy on
evolution has for decades been the subject of formal analysis. Some authors have 
suggested that pleiotropy can impede evolutionary progress (a so-called 'cost of 
complexity'). The plausibility of various phenomena attributed to pleiotropy
depends on how many traits are affected by each mutation and on our understanding
of the correlation between the number of traits affected by each gene
substitution and the size of mutational effects on individual traits. Here we
show, by studying pleiotropy in mice with the use of quantitative trait loci
(QTLs) affecting skeletal characters, that most QTLs affect a relatively small
subset of traits and that a substitution at a QTL has an effect on each trait
that increases with the total number of traits affected. This suggests that
evolution of higher organisms does not suffer a 'cost of complexity' because most
mutations affect few traits and the size of the effects does not decrease with
pleiotropy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06756 
PMID: 18368117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):465-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06815.

The first hominin of Europe.

Carbonell E(1), Bermúdez de Castro JM, Parés JM, Pérez-González A, Cuenca-Bescós 
G, Ollé A, Mosquera M, Huguet R, van der Made J, Rosas A, Sala R, Vallverdú J,
García N, Granger DE, Martinón-Torres M, Rodríguez XP, Stock GM, Vergès JM, Allué
E, Burjachs F, Cáceres I, Canals A, Benito A, Díez C, Lozano M, Mateos A, Navazo 
M, Rodríguez J, Rosell J, Arsuaga JL.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Català de Paleoecologia Humana i Evolució Social, Area de
Prehistòria, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Plaça Imperial Tarraco 1, 43005
Tarragona, Spain. eudald.carbonell@urv.cat

The earliest hominin occupation of Europe is one of the most debated topics in
palaeoanthropology. However, the purportedly oldest of the Early Pleistocene
sites in Eurasia lack precise age control and contain stone tools rather than
human fossil remains. Here we report the discovery of a human mandible associated
with an assemblage of Mode 1 lithic tools and faunal remains bearing traces of
hominin processing, in stratigraphic level TE9 at the site of the Sima del
Elefante, Atapuerca, Spain. Level TE9 has been dated to the Early Pleistocene
(approximately 1.2-1.1 Myr), based on a combination of palaeomagnetism,
cosmogenic nuclides and biostratigraphy. The Sima del Elefante site thus emerges 
as the oldest, most accurately dated record of human occupation in Europe, to our
knowledge. The study of the human mandible suggests that the first settlement of 
Western Europe could be related to an early demographic expansion out of Africa. 
The new evidence, with previous findings in other Atapuerca sites (level TD6 from
Gran Dolina), also suggests that a speciation event occurred in this extreme area
of the Eurasian continent during the Early Pleistocene, initiating the hominin
lineage represented by the TE9 and TD6 hominins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06815 
PMID: 18368116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):460-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06687.

Lower-crustal intrusion on the North Atlantic continental margin.

White RS(1), Smith LK, Roberts AW, Christie PA, Kusznir NJ; iSIMM Team, Roberts
AM, Healy D, Spitzer R, Chappell A, Eccles JD, Fletcher R, Hurst N, Lunnon Z,
Parkin CJ, Tymms VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Bullard Laboratories, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3
0EZ, UK.

When continents break apart, the rifting is sometimes accompanied by the
production of large volumes of molten rock. The total melt volume, however, is
uncertain, because only part of it has erupted at the surface. Furthermore, the
cause of the magmatism is still disputed-specifically, whether or not it is due
to increased mantle temperatures. We recorded deep-penetration normal-incidence
and wide-angle seismic profiles across the Faroe and Hatton Bank volcanic margins
in the northeast Atlantic. Here we show that near the Faroe Islands, for every 1 
km along strike, 360-400 km(3) of basalt is extruded, while 540-600 km(3) is
intruded into the continent-ocean transition. We find that lower-crustal
intrusions are focused mainly into a narrow zone approximately 50 km wide on the 
transition, although extruded basalts flow more than 100 km from the rift.
Seismic profiles show that the melt is intruded into the lower crust as sills,
which cross-cut the continental fabric, rather than as an 'underplate' of 100 per
cent melt, as has often been assumed. Evidence from the measured seismic
velocities and from igneous thicknesses are consistent with the dominant control 
on melt production being increased mantle temperatures, with no requirement for
either significant active small-scale mantle convection under the rift or the
presence of fertile mantle at the time of continental break-up, as has previously
been suggested for the North Atlantic Ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06687 
PMID: 18368115 


742. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):456-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06811.

Tracing the stepwise oxygenation of the Proterozoic ocean.

Scott C(1), Lyons TW, Bekker A, Shen Y, Poulton SW, Chu X, Anbar AD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 
92521, USA. cscot002@ucr.edu

Biogeochemical signatures preserved in ancient sedimentary rocks provide clues to
the nature and timing of the oxygenation of the Earth's atmosphere. Geochemical
data suggest that oxygenation proceeded in two broad steps near the beginning and
end of the Proterozoic eon (2,500 to 542 million years ago). The oxidation state 
of the Proterozoic ocean between these two steps and the timing of deep-ocean
oxygenation have important implications for the evolutionary course of life on
Earth but remain poorly known. Here we present a new perspective on ocean
oxygenation based on the authigenic accumulation of the redox-sensitive
transition element molybdenum in sulphidic black shales. Accumulation of
authigenic molybdenum from sea water is already seen in shales by 2,650 Myr ago; 
however, the small magnitudes of these enrichments reflect weak or transient
sources of dissolved molybdenum before about 2,200 Myr ago, consistent with
minimal oxidative weathering of the continents. Enrichments indicative of
persistent and vigorous oxidative weathering appear in shales deposited at
roughly 2,150 Myr ago, more than 200 million years after the initial rise in
atmospheric oxygen. Subsequent expansion of sulphidic conditions after about
1,800 Myr ago (refs 8, 9) maintained a mid-Proterozoic molybdenum reservoir below
20 per cent of the modern inventory, which in turn may have acted as a nutrient
feedback limiting the spatiotemporal distribution of euxinic (sulphidic) bottom
waters and perhaps the evolutionary and ecological expansion of eukaryotic
organisms. By 551 Myr ago, molybdenum contents reflect a greatly expanded oceanic
reservoir due to oxygenation of the deep ocean and corresponding decrease in
sulphidic conditions in the sediments and water column.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06811 
PMID: 18368114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):448-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06822.

Coupling of spin and orbital motion of electrons in carbon nanotubes.

Kuemmeth F(1), Ilani S, Ralph DC, McEuen PL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Atomic and Solid State Physics, Department of Physics, Cornell
University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):419-20.

Electrons in atoms possess both spin and orbital degrees of freedom. In
non-relativistic quantum mechanics, these are independent, resulting in large
degeneracies in atomic spectra. However, relativistic effects couple the spin and
orbital motion, leading to the well-known fine structure in their spectra. The
electronic states in defect-free carbon nanotubes are widely believed to be
four-fold degenerate, owing to independent spin and orbital symmetries, and also 
to possess electron-hole symmetry. Here we report measurements demonstrating that
in clean nanotubes the spin and orbital motion of electrons are coupled, thereby 
breaking all of these symmetries. This spin-orbit coupling is directly observed
as a splitting of the four-fold degeneracy of a single electron in ultra-clean
quantum dots. The coupling favours parallel alignment of the orbital and spin
magnetic moments for electrons and antiparallel alignment for holes. Our
measurements are consistent with recent theories that predict the existence of
spin-orbit coupling in curved graphene and describe it as a spin-dependent
topological phase in nanotubes. Our findings have important implications for
spin-based applications in carbon-based systems, entailing new design principles 
for the realization of quantum bits (qubits) in nanotubes and providing a
mechanism for all-electrical control of spins in nanotubes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06822 
PMID: 18368113 


744. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):436-41. doi: 10.1038/nature06725.

Compartmentalized dendritic plasticity and input feature storage in neurons.

Losonczy A(1), Makara JK, Magee JC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia Farm Research Campus, 19700 Helix Dr 
Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA. losonczya@janelia.hhmi.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):420-1.

Although information storage in the central nervous system is thought to be
primarily mediated by various forms of synaptic plasticity, other mechanisms,
such as modifications in membrane excitability, are available. Local dendritic
spikes are nonlinear voltage events that are initiated within dendritic branches 
by spatially clustered and temporally synchronous synaptic input. That local
spikes selectively respond only to appropriately correlated input allows them to 
function as input feature detectors and potentially as powerful information
storage mechanisms. However, it is currently unknown whether any effective form
of local dendritic spike plasticity exists. Here we show that the coupling
between local dendritic spikes and the soma of rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal
neurons can be modified in a branch-specific manner through an
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent regulation of dendritic Kv4.2
potassium channels. These data suggest that compartmentalized changes in branch
excitability could store multiple complex features of synaptic input, such as
their spatio-temporal correlation. We propose that this 'branch strength
potentiation' represents a previously unknown form of information storage that is
distinct from that produced by changes in synaptic efficacy both at the
mechanistic level and in the type of information stored.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06725 
PMID: 18368112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):429-35. doi: 10.1038/nature06757. Epub 2008 Mar 16.

Variations in DNA elucidate molecular networks that cause disease.

Chen Y(1), Zhu J, Lum PY, Yang X, Pinto S, MacNeil DJ, Zhang C, Lamb J, Edwards
S, Sieberts SK, Leonardson A, Castellini LW, Wang S, Champy MF, Zhang B, Emilsson
V, Doss S, Ghazalpour A, Horvath S, Drake TA, Lusis AJ, Schadt EE.

Author information: 
(1)Rosetta Inpharmatics, LLC, Merck & Co., Inc., 401 Terry Avenue North, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.

Identifying variations in DNA that increase susceptibility to disease is one of
the primary aims of genetic studies using a forward genetics approach. However,
identification of disease-susceptibility genes by means of such studies provides 
limited functional information on how genes lead to disease. In fact, in most
cases there is an absence of functional information altogether, preventing a
definitive identification of the susceptibility gene or genes. Here we develop an
alternative to the classic forward genetics approach for dissecting complex
disease traits where, instead of identifying susceptibility genes directly
affected by variations in DNA, we identify gene networks that are perturbed by
susceptibility loci and that in turn lead to disease. Application of this method 
to liver and adipose gene expression data generated from a segregating mouse
population results in the identification of a macrophage-enriched network
supported as having a causal relationship with disease traits associated with
metabolic syndrome. Three genes in this network, lipoprotein lipase (Lpl),
lactamase beta (Lactb) and protein phosphatase 1-like (Ppm1l), are validated as
previously unknown obesity genes, strengthening the association between this
network and metabolic disease traits. Our analysis provides direct experimental
support that complex traits such as obesity are emergent properties of molecular 
networks that are modulated by complex genetic loci and environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06757 
PMCID: PMC2841398
PMID: 18344982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):423-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06758. Epub 2008 Mar 16.

Genetics of gene expression and its effect on disease.

Emilsson V(1), Thorleifsson G, Zhang B, Leonardson AS, Zink F, Zhu J, Carlson S, 
Helgason A, Walters GB, Gunnarsdottir S, Mouy M, Steinthorsdottir V, Eiriksdottir
GH, Bjornsdottir G, Reynisdottir I, Gudbjartsson D, Helgadottir A, Jonasdottir A,
Jonasdottir A, Styrkarsdottir U, Gretarsdottir S, Magnusson KP, Stefansson H,
Fossdal R, Kristjansson K, Gislason HG, Stefansson T, Leifsson BG,
Thorsteinsdottir U, Lamb JR, Gulcher JR, Reitman ML, Kong A, Schadt EE,
Stefansson K.

Author information: 
(1)deCODE genetics, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland.

Common human diseases result from the interplay of many genes and environmental
factors. Therefore, a more integrative biology approach is needed to unravel the 
complexity and causes of such diseases. To elucidate the complexity of common
human diseases such as obesity, we have analysed the expression of 23,720
transcripts in large population-based blood and adipose tissue cohorts
comprehensively assessed for various phenotypes, including traits related to
clinical obesity. In contrast to the blood expression profiles, we observed a
marked correlation between gene expression in adipose tissue and obesity-related 
traits. Genome-wide linkage and association mapping revealed a highly significant
genetic component to gene expression traits, including a strong genetic effect of
proximal (cis) signals, with 50% of the cis signals overlapping between the two
tissues profiled. Here we demonstrate an extensive transcriptional network
constructed from the human adipose data that exhibits significant overlap with
similar network modules constructed from mouse adipose data. A core network
module in humans and mice was identified that is enriched for genes involved in
the inflammatory and immune response and has been found to be causally associated
to obesity-related traits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06758 
PMID: 18344981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):492-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06736. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

SIRT6 is a histone H3 lysine 9 deacetylase that modulates telomeric chromatin.

Michishita E(1), McCord RA, Berber E, Kioi M, Padilla-Nash H, Damian M, Cheung P,
Kusumoto R, Kawahara TL, Barrett JC, Chang HY, Bohr VA, Ried T, Gozani O, Chua
KF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Gerontology and Metabolism,
School of Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The Sir2 deacetylase regulates chromatin silencing and lifespan in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae. In mice, deficiency for the Sir2 family member SIRT6 leads to a
shortened lifespan and a premature ageing-like phenotype. However, the molecular 
mechanisms of SIRT6 function are unclear. SIRT6 is a chromatin-associated
protein, but no enzymatic activity of SIRT6 at chromatin has yet been detected,
and the identity of physiological SIRT6 substrates is unknown. Here we show that 
the human SIRT6 protein is an NAD+-dependent, histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9)
deacetylase that modulates telomeric chromatin. SIRT6 associates specifically
with telomeres, and SIRT6 depletion leads to telomere dysfunction with end-to-end
chromosomal fusions and premature cellular senescence. Moreover, SIRT6-depleted
cells exhibit abnormal telomere structures that resemble defects observed in
Werner syndrome, a premature ageing disorder. At telomeric chromatin, SIRT6
deacetylates H3K9 and is required for the stable association of WRN, the factor
that is mutated in Werner syndrome. We propose that SIRT6 contributes to the
propagation of a specialized chromatin state at mammalian telomeres, which in
turn is required for proper telomere metabolism and function. Our findings
constitute the first identification of a physiological enzymatic activity of
SIRT6, and link chromatin regulation by SIRT6 to telomere maintenance and a human
premature ageing syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06736 
PMCID: PMC2646112
PMID: 18337721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):487-91. doi: 10.1038/nature06608. Epub 2008 Feb 27.

SLAC1 is required for plant guard cell S-type anion channel function in stomatal 
signalling.

Vahisalu T(1), Kollist H, Wang YF, Nishimura N, Chan WY, Valerio G, Lamminmäki A,
Brosché M, Moldau H, Desikan R, Schroeder JI, Kangasjärvi J.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biology, Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University
of Helsinki, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland.

Stomatal pores, formed by two surrounding guard cells in the epidermis of plant
leaves, allow influx of atmospheric carbon dioxide in exchange for
transpirational water loss. Stomata also restrict the entry of ozone--an
important air pollutant that has an increasingly negative impact on crop yields, 
and thus global carbon fixation and climate change. The aperture of stomatal
pores is regulated by the transport of osmotically active ions and metabolites
across guard cell membranes. Despite the vital role of guard cells in controlling
plant water loss, ozone sensitivity and CO2 supply, the genes encoding some of
the main regulators of stomatal movements remain unknown. It has been proposed
that guard cell anion channels function as important regulators of stomatal
closure and are essential in mediating stomatal responses to physiological and
stress stimuli. However, the genes encoding membrane proteins that mediate guard 
cell anion efflux have not yet been identified. Here we report the mapping and
characterization of an ozone-sensitive Arabidopsis thaliana mutant, slac1. We
show that SLAC1 (SLOW ANION CHANNEL-ASSOCIATED 1) is preferentially expressed in 
guard cells and encodes a distant homologue of fungal and bacterial
dicarboxylate/malic acid transport proteins. The plasma membrane protein SLAC1 is
essential for stomatal closure in response to CO2, abscisic acid, ozone,
light/dark transitions, humidity change, calcium ions, hydrogen peroxide and
nitric oxide. Mutations in SLAC1 impair slow (S-type) anion channel currents that
are activated by cytosolic Ca2+ and abscisic acid, but do not affect rapid
(R-type) anion channel currents or Ca2+ channel function. A low homology of SLAC1
to bacterial and fungal organic acid transport proteins, and the permeability of 
S-type anion channels to malate suggest a vital role for SLAC1 in the function of
S-type anion channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06608 
PMCID: PMC2858982
PMID: 18305484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):483-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06720. Epub 2008 Feb 27.

CO2 regulator SLAC1 and its homologues are essential for anion homeostasis in
plant cells.

Negi J(1), Matsuda O, Nagasawa T, Oba Y, Takahashi H, Kawai-Yamada M, Uchimiya H,
Hashimoto M, Iba K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka
812-8581, Japan.

The continuing rise in atmospheric [CO2] is predicted to have diverse and
dramatic effects on the productivity of agriculture, plant ecosystems and gas
exchange. Stomatal pores in the epidermis provide gates for the exchange of CO2
and water between plants and the atmosphere, processes vital to plant life.
Increased [CO2] has been shown to enhance anion channel activity proposed to
mediate efflux of osmoregulatory anions (Cl- and malate(2-)) from guard cells
during stomatal closure. However, the genes encoding anion efflux channels in
plant plasma membranes remain unknown. Here we report the isolation of an
Arabidopsis gene, SLAC1 (SLOW ANION CHANNEL-ASSOCIATED 1, At1g12480), which
mediates CO2 sensitivity in regulation of plant gas exchange. The SLAC1 protein
is a distant homologue of bacterial and fungal C4-dicarboxylate transporters, and
is localized specifically to the plasma membrane of guard cells. It belongs to a 
protein family that in Arabidopsis consists of four structurally related members 
that are common in their plasma membrane localization, but show distinct
tissue-specific expression patterns. The loss-of-function mutation in SLAC1 was
accompanied by an over-accumulation of the osmoregulatory anions in guard cell
protoplasts. Guard-cell-specific expression of SLAC1 or its family members
resulted in restoration of the wild-type stomatal responses, including CO2
sensitivity, and also in the dissipation of the over-accumulated anions. These
results suggest that SLAC1-family proteins have an evolutionarily conserved
function that is required for the maintenance of organic/inorganic anion
homeostasis on the cellular level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06720 
PMID: 18305482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):473-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06808. Epub 2008 Feb 27.

The Drosophila pheromone cVA activates a sexually dimorphic neural circuit.

Datta SR(1), Vasconcelos ML, Ruta V, Luo S, Wong A, Demir E, Flores J, Balonze K,
Dickson BJ, Axel R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New
York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2008 May 20;18(10):R425-7.

Courtship is an innate sexually dimorphic behaviour that can be observed in naive
animals without previous learning or experience, suggesting that the neural
circuits that mediate this behaviour are developmentally programmed. In
Drosophila, courtship involves a complex yet stereotyped array of dimorphic
behaviours that are regulated by Fru(M), a male-specific isoform of the fruitless
gene. Fru(M) is expressed in about 2,000 neurons in the fly brain, including
three subpopulations of olfactory sensory neurons and projection neurons (PNs).
One set of Fru(+) olfactory neurons expresses the odorant receptor Or67d and
responds to the male-specific pheromone cis-vaccenyl acetate (cVA). These neurons
converge on the DA1 glomerulus in the antennal lobe. In males, activation of
Or67d(+) neurons by cVA inhibits courtship of other males, whereas in females
their activation promotes receptivity to other males. These observations pose the
question of how a single pheromone acting through the same set of sensory neurons
can elicit different behaviours in male and female flies. Anatomical or
functional dimorphisms in this neural circuit might be responsible for the
dimorphic behaviour. We therefore developed a neural tracing procedure that
employs two-photon laser scanning microscopy to activate the photoactivatable
green fluorescent protein. Here we show, using this technique, that the
projections from the DA1 glomerulus to the protocerebrum are sexually dimorphic. 
We observe a male-specific axonal arbor in the lateral horn whose elaboration
requires the expression of the transcription factor Fru(M) in DA1 projection
neurons and other Fru(+) cells. The observation that cVA activates a sexually
dimorphic circuit in the protocerebrum suggests a mechanism by which a single
pheromone can elicit different behaviours in males and in females.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06808 
PMID: 18305480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):453-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06740. Epub 2008 Feb 20.

Proline-catalysed Mannich reactions of acetaldehyde.

Yang JW(1), Chandler C, Stadler M, Kampen D, List B.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Kohlenforschung, Kaiser-Wilhelm-Platz 1, D-45470
Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany.

Small organic molecules recently emerged as a third class of broadly useful
asymmetric catalysts that direct reactions to yield predominantly one chiral
product, complementing enzymes and metal complexes. For instance, the amino acid 
proline and its derivatives are useful for the catalytic activation of carbonyl
compounds via nucleophilic enamine intermediates. Several important carbon-carbon
bond-forming reactions, including the Mannich reaction, have been developed using
this approach, all of which are useful for making chiral, biologically relevant
compounds. Remarkably, despite attempts, the simplest of all nucleophiles,
acetaldehyde, could not be used in this way. Here we show that acetaldehyde is a 
powerful nucleophile in asymmetric, proline-catalysed Mannich reactions with
N-tert-butoxycarbonyl (N-Boc)-imines, yielding beta-amino aldehydes with
extremely high enantioselectivities-desirable products as drug intermediates and 
in the synthesis of other biologically active molecules. Although acetaldehyde
has been used as a nucleophile in reactions with biological catalysts such as
aldolases and thiamine-dependent enzymes, and has also been employed indirectly, 
its use as an inexpensive and versatile two-carbon nucleophile in asymmetric,
small-molecule catalysis will find many practical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06740 
PMID: 18288105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):442-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06685. Epub 2008 Feb 6.

Haematopoietic stem cell release is regulated by circadian oscillations.

Méndez-Ferrer S(1), Lucas D, Battista M, Frenette PS.

Author information: 
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Department of Medicine and Department of Gene 
and Cell Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 27;452(7186):416-7.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) circulate in the bloodstream under steady-state 
conditions, but the mechanisms controlling their physiological trafficking are
unknown. Here we show that circulating HSCs and their progenitors exhibit robust 
circadian fluctuations, peaking 5 h after the initiation of light and reaching a 
nadir 5 h after darkness. Circadian oscillations are markedly altered when mice
are subjected to continuous light or to a 'jet lag' (defined as a shift of 12 h).
Circulating HSCs and their progenitors fluctuate in antiphase with the expression
of the chemokine CXCL12 in the bone marrow microenvironment. The cyclical release
of HSCs and expression of Cxcl12 are regulated by core genes of the molecular
clock through circadian noradrenaline secretion by the sympathetic nervous
system. These adrenergic signals are locally delivered by nerves in the bone
marrow, transmitted to stromal cells by the beta(3)-adrenergic receptor, leading 
to a decreased nuclear content of Sp1 transcription factor and the rapid
downregulation of Cxcl12. These data indicate that a circadian, neurally driven
release of HSC during the animal's resting period may promote the regeneration of
the stem cell niche and possibly other tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06685 
PMID: 18256599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):370-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06780.

SCFbeta-TRCP controls oncogenic transformation and neural differentiation through
REST degradation.

Westbrook TF(1), Hu G, Ang XL, Mulligan P, Pavlova NN, Liang A, Leng Y, Maehr R, 
Shi Y, Harper JW, Elledge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Genetics, Harvard Partners
Center for Genetics and Genomics, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis
Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST, also known as NRSF) is a master
repressor of neuronal gene expression and neuronal programmes in non-neuronal
lineages. Recently, REST was identified as a human tumour suppressor in
epithelial tissues, suggesting that its regulation may have important
physiological and pathological consequences. However, the pathways controlling
REST have yet to be elucidated. Here we show that REST is regulated by
ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, and use an RNA interference (RNAi) screen to
identify a Skp1-Cul1-F-box protein complex containing the F-box protein beta-TRCP
(SCF(beta-TRCP)) as an E3 ubiquitin ligase responsible for REST degradation.
beta-TRCP binds and ubiquitinates REST and controls its stability through a
conserved phospho-degron. During neural differentiation, REST is degraded in a
beta-TRCP-dependent manner. beta-TRCP is required for proper neural
differentiation only in the presence of REST, indicating that beta-TRCP
facilitates this process through degradation of REST. Conversely, failure to
degrade REST attenuates differentiation. Furthermore, we find that beta-TRCP
overexpression, which is common in human epithelial cancers, causes oncogenic
transformation of human mammary epithelial cells and that this pathogenic
function requires REST degradation. Thus, REST is a key target in
beta-TRCP-driven transformation and the beta-TRCP-REST axis is a new regulatory
pathway controlling neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06780 
PMCID: PMC2688689
PMID: 18354483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):365-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06641.

Control of chromosome stability by the beta-TrCP-REST-Mad2 axis.

Guardavaccaro D(1), Frescas D, Dorrello NV, Peschiaroli A, Multani AS, Cardozo T,
Lasorella A, Iavarone A, Chang S, Hernando E, Pagano M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, NYU Cancer Institute, New York University School of
Medicine, 550 First Avenue, MSB 599, New York, New York 10016, USA.

REST/NRSF (repressor-element-1-silencing transcription factor/neuron-restrictive 
silencing factor) negatively regulates the transcription of genes containing RE1 
sites. REST is expressed in non-neuronal cells and stem/progenitor neuronal
cells, in which it inhibits the expression of neuron-specific genes.
Overexpression of REST is frequently found in human medulloblastomas and
neuroblastomas, in which it is thought to maintain the stem character of tumour
cells. Neural stem cells forced to express REST and c-Myc fail to differentiate
and give rise to tumours in the mouse cerebellum. Expression of a splice variant 
of REST that lacks the carboxy terminus has been associated with neuronal tumours
and small-cell lung carcinomas, and a frameshift mutant (REST-FS), which is also 
truncated at the C terminus, has oncogenic properties. Here we show, by using an 
unbiased screen, that REST is an interactor of the F-box protein beta-TrCP. REST 
is degraded by means of the ubiquitin ligase SCF(beta-TrCP) during the G2 phase
of the cell cycle to allow transcriptional derepression of Mad2, an essential
component of the spindle assembly checkpoint. The expression in cultured cells of
a stable REST mutant, which is unable to bind beta-TrCP, inhibited Mad2
expression and resulted in a phenotype analogous to that observed in Mad2(+/-)
cells. In particular, we observed defects that were consistent with faulty
activation of the spindle checkpoint, such as shortened mitosis, premature
sister-chromatid separation, chromosome bridges and mis-segregation in anaphase, 
tetraploidy, and faster mitotic slippage in the presence of a spindle inhibitor. 
An indistinguishable phenotype was observed by expressing the oncogenic REST-FS
mutant, which does not bind beta-TrCP. Thus, SCF(beta-TrCP)-dependent degradation
of REST during G2 permits the optimal activation of the spindle checkpoint, and
consequently it is required for the fidelity of mitosis. The high levels of REST 
or its truncated variants found in certain human tumours may contribute to
cellular transformation by promoting genomic instability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06641 
PMCID: PMC2707768
PMID: 18354482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):348-51. doi: 10.1038/nature06723.

Winners don't punish.

Dreber A(1), Rand DG, Fudenberg D, Nowak MA.

Author information: 
(1)Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):297-8.

A key aspect of human behaviour is cooperation. We tend to help others even if
costs are involved. We are more likely to help when the costs are small and the
benefits for the other person significant. Cooperation leads to a tension between
what is best for the individual and what is best for the group. A group does
better if everyone cooperates, but each individual is tempted to defect. Recently
there has been much interest in exploring the effect of costly punishment on
human cooperation. Costly punishment means paying a cost for another individual
to incur a cost. It has been suggested that costly punishment promotes
cooperation even in non-repeated games and without any possibility of reputation 
effects. But most of our interactions are repeated and reputation is always at
stake. Thus, if costly punishment is important in promoting cooperation, it must 
do so in a repeated setting. We have performed experiments in which, in each
round of a repeated game, people choose between cooperation, defection and costly
punishment. In control experiments, people could only cooperate or defect. Here
we show that the option of costly punishment increases the amount of cooperation 
but not the average payoff of the group. Furthermore, there is a strong negative 
correlation between total payoff and use of costly punishment. Those people who
gain the highest total payoff tend not to use costly punishment: winners don't
punish. This suggests that costly punishment behaviour is maladaptive in
cooperation games and might have evolved for other reasons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06723 
PMCID: PMC2292414
PMID: 18354481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):344-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06605.

Survival variability and population density in fish populations.

Minto C(1), Myers RA, Blanchard W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 4J1,
Canada. mintoc@mathstat.dal.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 May 29;453(7195):586.

To understand the processes that regulate the abundance and persistence of wild
populations is a fundamental goal of ecology and a prerequisite for the
management of living resources. Variable abundance data, however, make the
demonstration of regulation processes challenging. A previously overlooked aspect
in understanding how populations are regulated is the possibility that the
pattern of variability--its strength as a function of population size--may be
more than 'noise', thus revealing much about the characteristics of population
regulation. Here we show that patterns in survival variability do provide
evidence of regulation through density. Using a large, global compilation of
marine, anadromous and freshwater fisheries data, we examine the relationship
between the variability of survival and population abundance. The interannual
variability in progeny survival increases at low adult abundance in an inversely 
density-dependent fashion. This pattern is consistent with models in which
density dependence enters after the larval stage. The findings are compatible
with very simple forms of density dependence: even a linear increase of juvenile 
mortality with adult density adequately explains the results. The model
predictions explain why populations with strong regulation may experience large
increases in variability at low densities. Furthermore, the inverse relationship 
between survival variability and the strength of density dependence has important
consequences for fisheries management and recovery, and population persistence or
extinction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06605 
PMID: 18354480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):336-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06760.

Super-chondritic Sm/Nd ratios in Mars, the Earth and the Moon.

Caro G(1), Bourdon B, Halliday AN, Quitté G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Géochimie et Cosmochimie Institut de Physique du Globe de
Paris-Université Denis Diderot, 4 place Jussieu, 75252 Paris Cedex 05, France.
caro@crpg.cnrs-nancy.fr

Small isotopic differences in the atomic abundance of neodymium-142 (142Nd) in
silicate rocks represent the time-averaged effect of decay of formerly live
samarium-146 (146Sm) and provide constraints on the timescales and mechanisms by 
which planetary mantles first differentiated. This chronology, however, assumes
that the composition of the total planet is identical to that of primitive
undifferentiated meteorites called chondrites. The difference in the 142Nd/144Nd 
ratio between chondrites and terrestrial samples may therefore indicate very
early isolation (<30 Myr from the formation of the Solar System) of the upper
mantle or a slightly non-chondritic bulk Earth composition. Here we present
high-precision 142Nd data for 16 martian meteorites and show that Mars also has a
non-chondritic composition. Meteorites belonging to the shergottite subgroup
define a planetary isochron yielding an age of differentiation of 40 +/- 18 Myr
for the martian mantle. This isochron does not pass through the chondritic
reference value (100 x epsilon(142)Nd = -21 +/- 3; 147Sm/144Nd = 0.1966). The
Earth, Moon and Mars all seem to have accreted in a portion of the inner Solar
System with approximately 5 per cent higher Sm/Nd ratios than material accreted
in the asteroid belt. Such chemical heterogeneities may have arisen from sorting 
of nebular solids or from impact erosion of crustal reservoirs in planetary
precursors. The 143Nd composition of the primitive mantle so defined by 142Nd is 
strikingly similar to the putative endmember component 'FOZO' characterized by
high 3He/4He ratios.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06760 
PMID: 18354479 


758. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):332-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06827.

Difference in direct charge-parity violation between charged and neutral B meson 
decays.

Belle Collaboration(1), Lin SW, Unno Y, Hou WS, Chang P, Adachi I, Aihara H, Akai
K, Arinstein K, Aulchenko V, Aushev T, Aziz T, Bakich AM, Balagura V, Barberio E,
Bay A, Bedny I, Bitenc U, Bondar A, Bozek A, Bracko M, Browder TE, Chang MC, Chao
Y, Chen A, Chen KF, Chen WT, Cheon BG, Chiang CC, Chistov R, Cho IS, Choi SK,
Choi Y, Choi YK, Cole S, Dalseno J, Danilov M, Dash M, Drutskoy A, Eidelman S,
Epifanov D, Fratina S, Fujikawa M, Furukawa K, Gabyshev N, Goldenzweig P, Golob
B, Ha H, Haba J, Hara T, Hayasaka K, Hayashii H, Hazumi M, Heffernan D, Hokuue T,
Hoshi Y, Hsiung YB, Hyun HJ, Iijima T, Ikado K, Inami K, Ishikawa A, Ishino H,
Itoh R, Iwabuchi M, Iwasaki M, Iwasaki Y, Kah DH, Kaji H, Kataoka SU, Kawai H,
Kawasaki T, Kibayashi A, Kichimi H, Kikutani E, Kim HJ, Kim SK, Kim YJ, Kinoshita
K, Korpar S, Kozakai Y, Krizan P, Krokovny P, Kumar R, Kuo CC, Kuzmin A, Kwon YJ,
Lee MJ, Lee SE, Lesiak T, Li J, Liu Y, Liventsev D, Mandl F, Marlow D, McOnie S, 
Medvedeva T, Mimashi T, Mitaroff W, Miyabayashi K, Miyake H, Miyazaki Y, Mizuk R,
Mori T, Nakamura TT, Nakano E, Nakao M, Nakazawa H, Nishida S, Nitoh O, Noguchi
S, Nozaki T, Ogawa S, Ogawa Y, Ohshima T, Okuno S, Olsen SL, Ozaki H, Pakhlova G,
Park CW, Park H, Peak LS, Pestotnik R, Peters M, Piilonen LE, Poluektov A, Sahoo 
H, Sakai Y, Schneider O, Schümann J, Schwartz AJ, Seidl R, Senyo K, Sevior ME,
Shapkin M, Shen CP, Shibuya H, Shidara T, Shinomiya S, Shiu JG, Shwartz B, Singh 
JB, Sokolov A, Somov A, Stanic S, Staric M, Sumisawa K, Sumiyoshi T, Suzuki S,
Tajima O, Takasaki F, Tamura N, Tanaka M, Tawada M, Taylor GN, Teramoto Y,
Tikhomirov I, Trabelsi K, Uehara S, Ueno K, Uglov T, Uno S, Urquijo P, Ushiroda
Y, Usov Y, Varner G, Varvell KE, Vervink K, Villa S, Wang CC, Wang CH, Wang MZ,
Watanabe Y, Wedd R, Wicht J, Won E, Yabsley BD, Yamaguchi A, Yamashita Y,
Yamauchi M, Yoshida M, Yuan CZ, Yusa Y, Zhang CC, Zhang ZP, Zhilich V, Zhulanov
V, Zupanc A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):293-4.

Equal amounts of matter and antimatter are predicted to have been produced in the
Big Bang, but our observable Universe is clearly matter-dominated. One of the
prerequisites for understanding this elimination of antimatter is the
nonconservation of charge-parity (CP) symmetry. So far, two types of CP violation
have been observed in the neutral K meson (K(0)) and B meson (B(0)) systems: CP
violation involving the mixing between K(0) and its antiparticle (and likewise
for B(0) and ), and direct CP violation in the decay of each meson. The observed 
effects for both types of CP violation are substantially larger for the B(0)
meson system. However, they are still consistent with the standard model of
particle physics, which has a unique source of CP violation that is known to be
too small to account for the matter-dominated Universe. Here we report that the
direct CP violation in charged B(+/-)-->K(+/-)pi(0) decay is different from that 
in the neutral B(0) counterpart. The direct CP-violating decay rate asymmetry,
(that is, the difference between the number of observed B(-)-->K(-)pi(0) event
versus B(+)-->K(+) pi(0) events, normalized to the sum of these events) is
measured to be about +7%, with an uncertainty that is reduced by a factor of 1.7 
from a previous measurement. However, the asymmetry for versus B(0)-->K(+)pi(-)
is at the -10% level. Although it is susceptible to strong interaction effects
that need further clarification, this large deviation in direct CP violation
between charged and neutral B meson decays could be an indication of new sources 
of CP violation-which would help to explain the dominance of matter in the
Universe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06827 
PMID: 18354478 


759. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):329-31. doi: 10.1038/nature06823.

The presence of methane in the atmosphere of an extrasolar planet.

Swain MR(1), Vasisht G, Tinetti G.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, 4800 Oak Grove 
Drive, Pasadena, California 91109-8099, USA. Mark.R.Swain@jpl.nasa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):296-7.

Molecules present in the atmospheres of extrasolar planets are expected to
influence strongly the balance of atmospheric radiation, to trace dynamical and
chemical processes, and to indicate the presence of disequilibrium effects. As
molecules have the potential to reveal atmospheric conditions and chemistry,
searching for them is a high priority. The rotational-vibrational transition
bands of water, carbon monoxide and methane are anticipated to be the primary
sources of non-continuum opacity in hot-Jupiter planets. As these bands can
overlap in wavelength, and the corresponding signatures from them are weak,
decisive identification requires precision infrared spectroscopy. Here we report 
a near-infrared transmission spectrum of the planet HD 189733b that shows the
presence of methane. Additionally, a resolved water vapour band at 1.9 mum
confirms the recent claim of water in this object. On thermochemical grounds,
carbon monoxide is expected to be abundant in the upper atmosphere of hot-Jupiter
planets, but is not identifiable here; therefore the detection of methane rather 
than carbon monoxide in such a hot planet could signal the presence of a
horizontal chemical gradient away from the permanent dayside, or it may imply an 
ill-understood photochemical mechanism that leads to an enhancement of methane.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06823 
PMID: 18354477 


760. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):317-22. doi: 10.1038/nature06738.

Thyrotrophin in the pars tuberalis triggers photoperiodic response.

Nakao N(1), Ono H, Yamamura T, Anraku T, Takagi T, Higashi K, Yasuo S, Katou Y,
Kageyama S, Uno Y, Kasukawa T, Iigo M, Sharp PJ, Iwasawa A, Suzuki Y, Sugano S,
Niimi T, Mizutani M, Namikawa T, Ebihara S, Ueda HR, Yoshimura T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomodelling, Graduate School of Bioagricultural Sciences, Nagoya 
University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):294-5.

Molecular mechanisms regulating animal seasonal breeding in response to changing 
photoperiod are not well understood. Rapid induction of gene expression of
thyroid-hormone-activating enzyme (type 2 deiodinase, DIO2) in the mediobasal
hypothalamus (MBH) of the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) is the earliest
event yet recorded in the photoperiodic signal transduction pathway. Here we show
cascades of gene expression in the quail MBH associated with the initiation of
photoinduced secretion of luteinizing hormone. We identified two waves of gene
expression. The first was initiated about 14 h after dawn of the first long day
and included increased thyrotrophin (TSH) beta-subunit expression in the pars
tuberalis; the second occurred approximately 4 h later and included increased
expression of DIO2. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of TSH to
short-day quail stimulated gonadal growth and expression of DIO2 which was shown 
to be mediated through a TSH receptor-cyclic AMP (cAMP) signalling pathway.
Increased TSH in the pars tuberalis therefore seems to trigger long-day
photoinduced seasonal breeding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06738 
PMID: 18354476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):311-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06688.

Ancient, highly heterogeneous mantle beneath Gakkel ridge, Arctic Ocean.

Liu CZ(1), Snow JE, Hellebrand E, Brügmann G, von der Handt A, Büchl A, Hofmann
AW.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Lithospheric Evolution, Institute of Geology and
Geophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100029, China.
chzliu@mail.iggcas.ac.cn

The Earth's mantle beneath ocean ridges is widely thought to be depleted by
previous melt extraction, but well homogenized by convective stirring. This
inference of homogeneity has been complicated by the occurrence of portions
enriched in incompatible elements. Here we show that some refractory abyssal
peridotites from the ultraslow-spreading Gakkel ridge (Arctic Ocean) have very
depleted 187Os/188Os ratios with model ages up to 2 billion years, implying the
long-term preservation of refractory domains in the asthenospheric mantle rather 
than their erasure by mantle convection. The refractory domains would not be
sampled by mid-ocean-ridge basalts because they contribute little to the genesis 
of magmas. We thus suggest that the upwelling mantle beneath mid-ocean ridges is 
highly heterogeneous, which makes it difficult to constrain its composition by
mid-ocean-ridge basalts alone. Furthermore, the existence of ancient domains in
oceanic mantle suggests that using osmium model ages to constrain the evolution
of continental lithosphere should be approached with caution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06688 
PMID: 18354475 


762. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):301-10. doi: 10.1038/nature06599.

Science and technology for water purification in the coming decades.

Shannon MA(1), Bohn PW, Elimelech M, Georgiadis JG, Mariñas BJ, Mayes AM.

Author information: 
(1)NSF STC WaterCAMPWS, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA. mshannon@uiuc.edu

One of the most pervasive problems afflicting people throughout the world is
inadequate access to clean water and sanitation. Problems with water are expected
to grow worse in the coming decades, with water scarcity occurring globally, even
in regions currently considered water-rich. Addressing these problems calls out
for a tremendous amount of research to be conducted to identify robust new
methods of purifying water at lower cost and with less energy, while at the same 
time minimizing the use of chemicals and impact on the environment. Here we
highlight some of the science and technology being developed to improve the
disinfection and decontamination of water, as well as efforts to increase water
supplies through the safe re-use of wastewater and efficient desalination of sea 
and brackish water.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06599 
PMID: 18354474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):E5; author reply E5-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06785.

Do abnormal responses show utilitarian bias?

Kahane G(1), Shackel N.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1
1PT, UK.

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Apr 19;446(7138):908-11.

Neuroscience has recently turned to the study of utilitarian and non-utilitarian 
moral judgement. Koenigs et al. examine the responses of normal subjects and
those with ventromedial-prefrontal-cortex (VMPC) damage to moral scenarios drawn 
from functional magnetic resonance imaging studies by Greene et al., and claim
that patients with VMPC damage have an abnormally "utilitarian" pattern of moral 
judgement. It is crucial to the claims of Koenigs et al. that the scenarios of
Greene et al. pose a conflict between utilitarian consequence and duty: however, 
many of them do not meet this condition. Because of this methodological problem, 
it is too early to claim that VMPC patients have a utilitarian bias.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06785 
PMCID: PMC2922719
PMID: 18354427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):356-60. doi: 10.1038/nature06672. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

Memory CD4 T cells emerge from effector T-cell progenitors.

Harrington LE(1), Janowski KM, Oliver JR, Zajac AJ, Weaver CT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 845 19th Street 
South, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.

A hallmark of adaptive immunity is the generation of memory T cells that confer
long-lived, antigen-specific protection against repeat challenges by pathogens.
Understanding the mechanisms by which memory T cells arise is important for
rational vaccination strategies and improved therapeutic interventions for
chronic infections and autoimmune disorders. The large clonal expansion of CD8 T 
cells in response to some infections has made the development of CD8 T-cell
memory more amenable to study, giving rise to a model of memory cell
differentiation in which a fraction of fully competent effector T cells
transition into long-lived memory T cells. Delineation of CD4 T-cell memory
development has proved more difficult as a result of limitations on tracking the 
smaller populations of CD4 effector T cells generated during a pathogenic
challenge, complicating efforts to determine whether CD4 memory T cells are
direct descendants of effector T cells or whether they develop by alternative
pathways. Here, using two complementary cytokine reporter mouse models to
identify interferon (IFN)-gamma-positive effector T cells and track their fate,
we show that the lineage relationship between effector and memory CD4 T cells
resembles that for CD8 T cells responding to the same pathogen. We find that, in 
parallel with effector CD8 T cells, IFN-gamma-positive effector CD4 T cells give 
rise to long-lived memory T cells capable of anamnestic responses to antigenic
rechallenge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06672 
PMID: 18322463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):352-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06713. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

Identifying natural images from human brain activity.

Kay KN(1), Naselaris T, Prenger RJ, Gallant JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

A challenging goal in neuroscience is to be able to read out, or decode, mental
content from brain activity. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) 
studies have decoded orientation, position and object category from activity in
visual cortex. However, these studies typically used relatively simple stimuli
(for example, gratings) or images drawn from fixed categories (for example,
faces, houses), and decoding was based on previous measurements of brain activity
evoked by those same stimuli or categories. To overcome these limitations, here
we develop a decoding method based on quantitative receptive-field models that
characterize the relationship between visual stimuli and fMRI activity in early
visual areas. These models describe the tuning of individual voxels for space,
orientation and spatial frequency, and are estimated directly from responses
evoked by natural images. We show that these receptive-field models make it
possible to identify, from a large set of completely novel natural images, which 
specific image was seen by an observer. Identification is not a mere consequence 
of the retinotopic organization of visual areas; simpler receptive-field models
that describe only spatial tuning yield much poorer identification performance.
Our results suggest that it may soon be possible to reconstruct a picture of a
person's visual experience from measurements of brain activity alone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06713 
PMCID: PMC3556484
PMID: 18322462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):375-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06717. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

X-ray structure of a prokaryotic pentameric ligand-gated ion channel.

Hilf RJ(1), Dutzler R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zürich, Winterthurer Strasse 190,
CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) are key players in the early events
of electrical signal transduction at chemical synapses. The family codes for a
structurally conserved scaffold of channel proteins that open in response to the 
binding of neurotransmitter molecules. All proteins share a pentameric
organization of identical or related subunits that consist of an extracellular
ligand-binding domain followed by a transmembrane channel domain. The nicotinic
acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is the most thoroughly studied member of the pLGIC
family (for recent reviews see refs 1-3). Two sources of structural information
provided an architectural framework for the family. The structure of the soluble 
acetylcholine-binding protein (AChBP) defined the organization of the
extracellular domain and revealed the chemical basis of ligand interaction.
Electron microscopy studies of the nAChR from Torpedo electric ray have yielded a
picture of the full-length protein and have recently led to the interpretation of
an electron density map at 4.0 A resolution. Despite the wealth of experimental
information, high-resolution structures of any family member have so far not been
available. Until recently, the pLGICs were believed to be only expressed in
multicellular eukaryotic organisms. The abundance of prokaryotic genome
sequences, however, allowed the identification of several homologous proteins in 
bacterial sources. Here we present the X-ray structure of a prokaryotic pLGIC
from the bacterium Erwinia chrysanthemi (ELIC) at 3.3 A resolution. Our study
reveals the first structure of a pLGIC at high resolution and provides an
important model system for the investigation of the general mechanisms of ion
permeation and gating within the family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06717 
PMID: 18322461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):340-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06735. Epub 2008 Mar 2.

Biodiversity and biogeography of phages in modern stromatolites and thrombolites.

Desnues C(1), Rodriguez-Brito B, Rayhawk S, Kelley S, Tran T, Haynes M, Liu H,
Furlan M, Wegley L, Chau B, Ruan Y, Hall D, Angly FE, Edwards RA, Li L, Thurber
RV, Reid RP, Siefert J, Souza V, Valentine DL, Swan BK, Breitbart M, Rohwer F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, San Diego, California
92182, USA. cdesnues@yahoo.fr

Viruses, and more particularly phages (viruses that infect bacteria), represent
one of the most abundant living entities in aquatic and terrestrial environments.
The biogeography of phages has only recently been investigated and so far reveals
a cosmopolitan distribution of phage genetic material (or genotypes). Here we
address this cosmopolitan distribution through the analysis of phage communities 
in modern microbialites, the living representatives of one of the most ancient
life forms on Earth. On the basis of a comparative metagenomic analysis of viral 
communities associated with marine (Highborne Cay, Bahamas) and freshwater (Pozas
Azules II and Rio Mesquites, Mexico) microbialites, we show that some phage
genotypes are geographically restricted. The high percentage of unknown sequences
recovered from the three metagenomes (>97%), the low percentage similarities with
sequences from other environmental viral (n = 42) and microbial (n = 36)
metagenomes, and the absence of viral genotypes shared among microbialites
indicate that viruses are genetically unique in these environments. Identifiable 
sequences in the Highborne Cay metagenome were dominated by single-stranded DNA
microphages that were not detected in any other samples examined, including sea
water, fresh water, sediment, terrestrial, extreme, metazoan-associated and
marine microbial mats. Finally, a marine signature was present in the phage
community of the Pozas Azules II microbialites, even though this environment has 
not been in contact with the ocean for tens of millions of years. Taken together,
these results prove that viruses in modern microbialites display biogeographical 
variability and suggest that they may be derived from an ancient community.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06735 
PMID: 18311127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):361-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06603. Epub 2008 Feb 24.

Preserving cell shape under environmental stress.

Cook B(1), Hardy RW, McConnaughey WB, Zuker CS.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Departments of Neurobiology and
Neurosciences, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0649, USA.

Maintaining cell shape and tone is crucial for the function and survival of cells
and tissues. Mechanotransduction relies on the transformation of minuscule
mechanical forces into high-fidelity electrical responses. When mechanoreceptors 
are stimulated, mechanically sensitive cation channels open and produce an inward
transduction current that depolarizes the cell. For this process to operate
effectively, the transduction machinery has to retain integrity and remain
unfailingly independent of environmental changes. This is particularly
challenging for poikilothermic organisms, where changes in temperature in the
environment may impact the function of mechanoreceptor neurons. Thus, we wondered
how insects whose habitat might quickly vary over several tens of degrees of
temperature manage to maintain highly effective mechanical senses. We screened
for Drosophila mutants with defective mechanical responses at elevated ambient
temperatures, and identified a gene, spam, whose role is to protect the
mechanosensory organ from massive cellular deformation caused by heat-induced
osmotic imbalance. Here we show that Spam protein forms an extracellular shield
that guards mechanosensory neurons from environmental insult. Remarkably,
heterologously expressed Spam protein also endowed other cells with superb
defence against physically and chemically induced deformation. We studied the
mechanical impact of Spam coating and show that spam-coated cells are up to ten
times stiffer than uncoated controls. Together, these results help explain how
poikilothermic organisms preserve the architecture of critical cells during
environmental stress, and illustrate an elegant and simple solution to such
challenge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06603 
PMCID: PMC2387185
PMID: 18297055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):323-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06730. Epub 2008 Feb 13.

Translational control of the innate immune response through IRF-7.

Colina R(1), Costa-Mattioli M, Dowling RJ, Jaramillo M, Tai LH, Breitbach CJ,
Martineau Y, Larsson O, Rong L, Svitkin YV, Makrigiannis AP, Bell JC, Sonenberg
N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and McGill Cancer Center, McGill University,
Montreal, Quebec H3G 1Y6, Canada.

Transcriptional activation of cytokines, such as type-I interferons (interferon
(IFN)-alpha and IFN-beta), constitutes the first line of antiviral defence. Here 
we show that translational control is critical for induction of type-I IFN
production. In mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking the translational repressors
4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2, the threshold for eliciting type-I IFN production is lowered. 
Consequently, replication of encephalomyocarditis virus, vesicular stomatitis
virus, influenza virus and Sindbis virus is markedly suppressed. Furthermore,
mice with both 4E- and 4E-BP2 genes (also known as Eif4ebp1 and Eif4ebp2,
respectively) knocked out are resistant to vesicular stomatitis virus infection, 
and this correlates with an enhanced type-I IFN production in plasmacytoid
dendritic cells and the expression of IFN-regulated genes in the lungs. The
enhanced type-I IFN response in 4E-BP1-/- 4E-BP2-/- double knockout mouse
embryonic fibroblasts is caused by upregulation of interferon regulatory factor 7
(Irf7) messenger RNA translation. These findings highlight the role of 4E-BPs as 
negative regulators of type-I IFN production, via translational repression of
Irf7 mRNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06730 
PMID: 18272964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):239-42. doi: 10.1038/nature06637.

An allylic ketyl radical intermediate in clostridial amino-acid fermentation.

Kim J(1), Darley DJ, Buckel W, Pierik AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium für Mikrobiologie, Fachbereich Biologie, Philipps-Universität,
D35032 Marburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):163-4.

The human pathogenic bacterium Clostridium difficile thrives by the fermentation 
of l-leucine to ammonia, CO(2), 3-methylbutanoate and 4-methylpentanoate under
anaerobic conditions. The reductive branch to 4-methylpentanoate proceeds by
means of the dehydration of (R)-2-hydroxy-4-methylpentanoyl-CoA to
4-methylpent-2-enoyl-CoA, which is chemically the most demanding step. Ketyl
radicals have been proposed to mediate this reaction catalysed by an
iron-sulphur-cluster-containing dehydratase, which requires activation by
ATP-dependent electron transfer from a second iron-sulphur protein functionally
similar to the iron protein of nitrogenase. Here we identify a kinetically
competent product-related allylic ketyl radical bound to the enzyme by electron
paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy employing isotope-labelled
(R)-2-hydroxy-4-methylpentanoyl-CoA species. We also found that the enzyme
generated the stabilized pentadienoyl ketyl radical from the substrate analogue
2-hydroxypent-4-enoyl-CoA, supporting the proposed mechanism. Our results imply
that also other 2-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydratases and the related benzoyl-CoA
reductases-present in anaerobically living bacteria-employ ketyl radical
intermediates. The absence of radical generators such as coenzyme B12,
S-adenosylmethionine or oxygen makes these enzymes unprecedented in biochemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06637 
PMID: 18337824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):230-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06734.

The M2 splice isoform of pyruvate kinase is important for cancer metabolism and
tumour growth.

Christofk HR(1), Vander Heiden MG, Harris MH, Ramanathan A, Gerszten RE, Wei R,
Fleming MD, Schreiber SL, Cantley LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Many tumour cells have elevated rates of glucose uptake but reduced rates of
oxidative phosphorylation. This persistence of high lactate production by tumours
in the presence of oxygen, known as aerobic glycolysis, was first noted by Otto
Warburg more than 75 yr ago. How tumour cells establish this altered metabolic
phenotype and whether it is essential for tumorigenesis is as yet unknown. Here
we show that a single switch in a splice isoform of the glycolytic enzyme
pyruvate kinase is necessary for the shift in cellular metabolism to aerobic
glycolysis and that this promotes tumorigenesis. Tumour cells have been shown to 
express exclusively the embryonic M2 isoform of pyruvate kinase. Here we use
short hairpin RNA to knockdown pyruvate kinase M2 expression in human cancer cell
lines and replace it with pyruvate kinase M1. Switching pyruvate kinase
expression to the M1 (adult) isoform leads to reversal of the Warburg effect, as 
judged by reduced lactate production and increased oxygen consumption, and this
correlates with a reduced ability to form tumours in nude mouse xenografts. These
results demonstrate that M2 expression is necessary for aerobic glycolysis and
that this metabolic phenotype provides a selective growth advantage for tumour
cells in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06734 
PMID: 18337823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):220-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06563.

Adaptive coding of visual information in neural populations.

Gutnisky DA(1), Dragoi V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Texas-Houston Medical
School, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. v.dragoi@uth.tmc.edu

Our perception of the environment relies on the capacity of neural networks to
adapt rapidly to changes in incoming stimuli. It is increasingly being realized
that the neural code is adaptive, that is, sensory neurons change their responses
and selectivity in a dynamic manner to match the changes in input stimuli.
Understanding how rapid exposure, or adaptation, to a stimulus of fixed structure
changes information processing by cortical networks is essential for
understanding the relationship between sensory coding and behaviour.
Physiological investigations of adaptation have contributed greatly to our
understanding of how individual sensory neurons change their responses to
influence stimulus coding, yet whether and how adaptation affects information
coding in neural populations is unknown. Here we examine how brief adaptation (on
the timescale of visual fixation) influences the structure of interneuronal
correlations and the accuracy of population coding in the macaque (Macaca
mulatta) primary visual cortex (V1). We find that brief adaptation to a stimulus 
of fixed structure reorganizes the distribution of correlations across the entire
network by selectively reducing their mean and variability. The post-adaptation
changes in neuronal correlations are associated with specific, stimulus-dependent
changes in the efficiency of the population code, and are consistent with changes
in perceptual performance after adaptation. Our results have implications beyond 
the predictions of current theories of sensory coding, suggesting that brief
adaptation improves the accuracy of population coding to optimize neuronal
performance during natural viewing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06563 
PMID: 18337822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):210-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06554.

Diversity and productivity peak at intermediate dispersal rate in evolving
metacommunities.

Venail PA(1), MacLean RC, Bouvier T, Brockhurst MA, Hochberg ME, Mouquet N.

Author information: 
(1)Université Montpellier 2, CNRS, UMR 5554 Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution,
CC065 Place Eugène Bataillon, Montpellier cedex 05, France.
pvenail@univ-montp2.fr

Positive relationships between species diversity and productivity have been
reported for a number of ecosystems. Theoretical and experimental studies have
attempted to determine the mechanisms that generate this pattern over short
timescales, but little attention has been given to the problem of understanding
how diversity and productivity are linked over evolutionary timescales. Here, we 
investigate the role of dispersal in determining both diversity and productivity 
over evolutionary timescales, using experimental metacommunities of the bacterium
Pseudomonas fluorescens assembled by divergent natural selection. We show that
both regional diversity and productivity peak at an intermediate dispersal rate. 
Moreover, we demonstrate that these two patterns are linked: selection at
intermediate rates of dispersal leads to high niche differentiation between
genotypes, allowing greater coverage of the heterogeneous environment and a
higher regional productivity. We argue that processes that operate over both
ecological and evolutionary timescales should be jointly considered when
attempting to understand the emergence of ecosystem-level properties such as
diversity-function relationships.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06554 
PMID: 18337821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):206-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06690.

Influence of the Gulf Stream on the troposphere.

Minobe S(1), Kuwano-Yoshida A, Komori N, Xie SP, Small RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural History Sciences, Graduate School of Science, Hokkaido
University, Sapporo 060-0810, Japan. minobe@sci.hokudai.ac.jp

The Gulf Stream transports large amounts of heat from the tropics to middle and
high latitudes, and thereby affects weather phenomena such as cyclogenesis and
low cloud formation. But its climatic influence, on monthly and longer
timescales, remains poorly understood. In particular, it is unclear how the warm 
current affects the free atmosphere above the marine atmospheric boundary layer. 
Here we consider the Gulf Stream's influence on the troposphere, using a
combination of operational weather analyses, satellite observations and an
atmospheric general circulation model. Our results reveal that the Gulf Stream
affects the entire troposphere. In the marine boundary layer, atmospheric
pressure adjustments to sharp sea surface temperature gradients lead to surface
wind convergence, which anchors a narrow band of precipitation along the Gulf
Stream. In this rain band, upward motion and cloud formation extend into the
upper troposphere, as corroborated by the frequent occurrence of very low
cloud-top temperatures. These mechanisms provide a pathway by which the Gulf
Stream can affect the atmosphere locally, and possibly also in remote regions by 
forcing planetary waves. The identification of this pathway may have implications
for our understanding of the processes involved in climate change, because the
Gulf Stream is the upper limb of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation,
which has varied in strength in the past and is predicted to weaken in response
to human-induced global warming in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06690 
PMID: 18337820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):202-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06686.

Stream denitrification across biomes and its response to anthropogenic nitrate
loading.

Mulholland PJ(1), Helton AM, Poole GC, Hall RO, Hamilton SK, Peterson BJ, Tank
JL, Ashkenas LR, Cooper LW, Dahm CN, Dodds WK, Findlay SE, Gregory SV, Grimm NB, 
Johnson SL, McDowell WH, Meyer JL, Valett HM, Webster JR, Arango CP, Beaulieu JJ,
Bernot MJ, Burgin AJ, Crenshaw CL, Johnson LT, Niederlehner BR, O'Brien JM,
Potter JD, Sheibley RW, Sobota DJ, Thomas SM.

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831, USA. mulhollandpj@ornl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):162-3.

Anthropogenic addition of bioavailable nitrogen to the biosphere is increasing
and terrestrial ecosystems are becoming increasingly nitrogen-saturated, causing 
more bioavailable nitrogen to enter groundwater and surface waters. Large-scale
nitrogen budgets show that an average of about 20-25 per cent of the nitrogen
added to the biosphere is exported from rivers to the ocean or inland basins,
indicating that substantial sinks for nitrogen must exist in the landscape.
Streams and rivers may themselves be important sinks for bioavailable nitrogen
owing to their hydrological connections with terrestrial systems, high rates of
biological activity, and streambed sediment environments that favour microbial
denitrification. Here we present data from nitrogen stable isotope tracer
experiments across 72 streams and 8 regions representing several biomes. We show 
that total biotic uptake and denitrification of nitrate increase with stream
nitrate concentration, but that the efficiency of biotic uptake and
denitrification declines as concentration increases, reducing the proportion of
in-stream nitrate that is removed from transport. Our data suggest that the total
uptake of nitrate is related to ecosystem photosynthesis and that denitrification
is related to ecosystem respiration. In addition, we use a stream network model
to demonstrate that excess nitrate in streams elicits a disproportionate increase
in the fraction of nitrate that is exported to receiving waters and reduces the
relative role of small versus large streams as nitrate sinks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06686 
PMID: 18337819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):198-201. doi: 10.1038/nature06597.

Hierarchical self-assembly of DNA into symmetric supramolecular polyhedra.

He Y(1), Ye T, Su M, Zhang C, Ribbe AE, Jiang W, Mao C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907,
USA.

DNA is renowned for its double helix structure and the base pairing that enables 
the recognition and highly selective binding of complementary DNA strands. These 
features, and the ability to create DNA strands with any desired sequence of
bases, have led to the use of DNA rationally to design various nanostructures and
even execute molecular computations. Of the wide range of self-assembled DNA
nanostructures reported, most are one- or two-dimensional. Examples of
three-dimensional DNA structures include cubes, truncated octahedra, octohedra
and tetrahedra, which are all comprised of many different DNA strands with unique
sequences. When aiming for large structures, the need to synthesize large numbers
(hundreds) of unique DNA strands poses a challenging design problem. Here, we
demonstrate a simple solution to this problem: the design of basic DNA building
units in such a way that many copies of identical units assemble into larger
three-dimensional structures. We test this hierarchical self-assembly concept
with DNA molecules that form three-point-star motifs, or tiles. By controlling
the flexibility and concentration of the tiles, the one-pot assembly yields
tetrahedra, dodecahedra or buckyballs that are tens of nanometres in size and
comprised of four, twenty or sixty individual tiles, respectively. We expect that
our assembly strategy can be adapted to allow the fabrication of a range of
relatively complex three-dimensional structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06597 
PMID: 18337818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06671.

Reflected light from sand grains in the terrestrial zone of a protoplanetary
disk.

Herbst W(1), Hamilton CM, LeDuc K, Winn JN, Johns-Krull CM, Mundt R, Ibrahimov M.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut 06459, USA.
wherbst@wesleyan.edu

In the standard model of terrestrial planet formation, the first step in the
process is for interstellar dust to coagulate within a protoplanetary disk
surrounding a young star, forming large grains that settle towards the disk
plane. Interstellar grains of typical size approximately 0.1 microm are expected 
to grow to millimetre- (sand), centimetre- (pebble) or even metre-sized (boulder)
objects rather quickly. Unfortunately, such evolved disks are hard to observe
because the ratio of surface area to volume of their constituents is small. We
readily detect dust around young objects known as 'classical' T Tauri stars, but 
there is little or no evidence of it in the slightly more evolved 'weak-line'
systems. Here we report observations of a 3-Myr-old star, which show that grains 
have grown to about millimetre size or larger in the terrestrial zone (within
approximately 3 au) of this star. The fortuitous geometry of the KH 15D binary
star system allows us to infer that, when both stars are occulted by the
surrounding disk, it appears as a nearly edge-on ring illuminated by one of the
central binary components. This work complements the study of terrestrial zones
of younger disks that have been recently resolved by interferometry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06671 
PMID: 18337817 


778. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):187-93. doi: 10.1038/nature06781.

SATB1 reprogrammes gene expression to promote breast tumour growth and
metastasis.

Han HJ(1), Russo J, Kohwi Y, Kohwi-Shigematsu T.

Author information: 
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Mechanisms underlying global changes in gene expression during tumour progression
are poorly understood. SATB1 is a genome organizer that tethers multiple genomic 
loci and recruits chromatin-remodelling enzymes to regulate chromatin structure
and gene expression. Here we show that SATB1 is expressed by aggressive breast
cancer cells and its expression level has high prognostic significance (P <
0.0001), independent of lymph-node status. RNA-interference-mediated knockdown of
SATB1 in highly aggressive (MDA-MB-231) cancer cells altered the expression of
>1,000 genes, reversing tumorigenesis by restoring breast-like acinar polarity
and inhibiting tumour growth and metastasis in vivo. Conversely, ectopic SATB1
expression in non-aggressive (SKBR3) cells led to gene expression patterns
consistent with aggressive-tumour phenotypes, acquiring metastatic activity in
vivo. SATB1 delineates specific epigenetic modifications at target gene loci,
directly upregulating metastasis-associated genes while downregulating
tumour-suppressor genes. SATB1 reprogrammes chromatin organization and the
transcription profiles of breast tumours to promote growth and metastasis; this
is a new mechanism of tumour progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06781 
PMID: 18337816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):181-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06667.

Pyruvate kinase M2 is a phosphotyrosine-binding protein.

Christofk HR(1), Vander Heiden MG, Wu N, Asara JM, Cantley LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Biology.

Growth factors stimulate cells to take up excess nutrients and to use them for
anabolic processes. The biochemical mechanism by which this is accomplished is
not fully understood but it is initiated by phosphorylation of signalling
proteins on tyrosine residues. Using a novel proteomic screen for
phosphotyrosine-binding proteins, we have made the observation that an enzyme
involved in glycolysis, the human M2 (fetal) isoform of pyruvate kinase (PKM2),
binds directly and selectively to tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides. We show that 
binding of phosphotyrosine peptides to PKM2 results in release of the allosteric 
activator fructose-1,6-bisphosphate, leading to inhibition of PKM2 enzymatic
activity. We also provide evidence that this regulation of PKM2 by
phosphotyrosine signalling diverts glucose metabolites from energy production to 
anabolic processes when cells are stimulated by certain growth factors.
Collectively, our results indicate that expression of this
phosphotyrosine-binding form of pyruvate kinase is critical for rapid growth in
cancer cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06667 
PMID: 18337815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):176-80. doi: 10.1038/nature06722.

A new class of anthelmintics effective against drug-resistant nematodes.

Kaminsky R(1), Ducray P, Jung M, Clover R, Rufener L, Bouvier J, Weber SS, Wenger
A, Wieland-Berghausen S, Goebel T, Gauvry N, Pautrat F, Skripsky T, Froelich O,
Komoin-Oka C, Westlund B, Sluder A, Mäser P.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Centre de Recherche Santé Animale, CH-1566 St Aubin (FR),
Switzerland. ronald.kaminsky@novartis.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):157-8.

Anthelmintic resistance in human and animal pathogenic helminths has been
spreading in prevalence and severity to a point where multidrug resistance
against the three major classes of anthelmintics--the benzimidazoles,
imidazothiazoles and macrocyclic lactones--has become a global phenomenon in
gastrointestinal nematodes of farm animals. Hence, there is an urgent need for an
anthelmintic with a new mode of action. Here we report the discovery of the
amino-acetonitrile derivatives (AADs) as a new chemical class of synthetic
anthelmintics and describe the development of drug candidates that are
efficacious against various species of livestock-pathogenic nematodes. These drug
candidates seem to have a novel mode of action involving a unique,
nematode-specific clade of acetylcholine receptor subunits. The AADs are well
tolerated and of low toxicity to mammals, and overcome existing resistances to
the currently available anthelmintics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06722 
PMID: 18337814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):169-75. doi: 10.1038/nature06737.

Genetic basis of fitness differences in natural populations.

Ellegren H(1), Sheldon BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala
University, Norbyvägen 18D, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se

Genomics profoundly influences current biology. One of many exciting consequences
of this revolution is the potential for identifying and studying the genetic
basis of those traits affecting fitness that are key to natural selection. Recent
studies using a multitude of genomic approaches have established such
genotype-phenotype relationships in natural populations, giving new insight into 
the genetic architecture of quantitative variation. In parallel, an emerging
understanding of the quantitative genetics of fitness variation in the wild means
that we are poised to see a synthesis of ecological and molecular approaches in
evolutionary biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06737 
PMID: 18337813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):E3-4; discussion E4. doi: 10.1038/nature06805.

Complex speciation of humans and chimpanzees.

Wakeley J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 16
Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. wakeley@fas.harvard.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2006 Jun 29;441(7097):1103-8.

Genetic data from two or more species provide information about the process of
speciation. In their analysis of DNA from humans, chimpanzees, gorillas,
orangutans and macaques (HCGOM), Patterson et al. suggest that the apparently
short divergence time between humans and chimpanzees on the X chromosome is
explained by a massive interspecific hybridization event in the ancestry of these
two species. However, Patterson et al. do not statistically test their own null
model of simple speciation before concluding that speciation was complex,
and--even if the null model could be rejected--they do not consider other
explanations of a short divergence time on the X chromosome. These include
natural selection on the X chromosome in the common ancestor of humans and
chimpanzees, changes in the ratio of male-to-female mutation rates over time, and
less extreme versions of divergence with gene flow (see ref. 2, for example). I
therefore believe that their claim of hybridization is unwarranted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06805 
PMID: 18337768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):225-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06642. Epub 2008 Mar 2.

A skin microRNA promotes differentiation by repressing 'stemness'.

Yi R(1), Poy MN, Stoffel M, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Rockefeller University, New York City,
New York 10065, USA.

In stratified epithelial tissues, homeostasis relies on the self-renewing
capacity of stem cells located within the innermost basal layer. As basal cells
become suprabasal, they lose proliferative potential and embark on a terminal
differentiation programme. Here, we show that microRNA-203 is induced in the skin
concomitantly with stratification and differentiation. By altering miR-203's
spatiotemporal expression in vivo, we show that miR-203 promotes epidermal
differentiation by restricting proliferative potential and inducing cell-cycle
exit. We identify p63 as one of the conserved targets of miR-203 across
vertebrates. Notably, p63 is an essential regulator of stem-cell maintenance in
stratified epithelial tissues. We show that miR-203 directly represses the
expression of p63: it fails to switch off suprabasally when either Dicer1 or
miR-203 is absent and it becomes repressed basally when miR-203 is prematurely
expressed. Our findings suggest that miR-203 defines a molecular boundary between
proliferative basal progenitors and terminally differentiating suprabasal cells, 
ensuring proper identity of neighbouring layers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06642 
PMCID: PMC4346711
PMID: 18311128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):234-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06726. Epub 2008 Feb 27.

UNC93B1 delivers nucleotide-sensing toll-like receptors to endolysosomes.

Kim YM(1), Brinkmann MM, Paquet ME, Ploegh HL.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA. ykim@wi.mit.edu

Signalling by means of toll-like receptors (TLRs) is essential for the
development of innate and adaptive immune responses. UNC93B1, essential for
signalling of TLR3, TLR7 and TLR9 in both humans and mice, physically interacts
with these TLRs in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here we show that the function
of the polytopic membrane protein UNC93B1 is to deliver the nucleotide-sensing
receptors TLR7 and TLR9 from the ER to endolysosomes. In dendritic cells of 3d
mice, which express an UNC93B1 missense mutant (H412R) incapable of TLR binding, 
neither TLR7 nor TLR9 exits the ER. Furthermore, the trafficking and signalling
defects of the nucleotide-sensing TLRs in 3d dendritic cells are corrected by
expression of wild-type UNC93B1. However, UNC93B1 is dispensable for ligand
recognition and signal initiation by TLRs. To our knowledge, UNC93B1 is the first
protein to be identified as a molecule specifically involved in trafficking of
nucleotide-sensing TLRs. By inhibiting the interaction between UNC93B1 and TLRs
it should be possible to achieve specific regulation of the nucleotide-sensing
TLRs without compromising signalling via the cell-surface-disposed TLRs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06726 
PMID: 18305481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):215-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06745. Epub 2008 Feb 17.

Shotgun bisulphite sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome reveals DNA methylation
patterning.

Cokus SJ(1), Feng S, Zhang X, Chen Z, Merriman B, Haudenschild CD, Pradhan S,
Nelson SF, Pellegrini M, Jacobsen SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology, University of
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Cytosine DNA methylation is important in regulating gene expression and in
silencing transposons and other repetitive sequences. Recent genomic studies in
Arabidopsis thaliana have revealed that many endogenous genes are methylated
either within their promoters or within their transcribed regions, and that gene 
methylation is highly correlated with transcription levels. However, plants have 
different types of methylation controlled by different genetic pathways, and
detailed information on the methylation status of each cytosine in any given
genome is lacking. To this end, we generated a map at single-base-pair resolution
of methylated cytosines for Arabidopsis, by combining bisulphite treatment of
genomic DNA with ultra-high-throughput sequencing using the Illumina 1G Genome
Analyser and Solexa sequencing technology. This approach, termed BS-Seq, unlike
previous microarray-based methods, allows one to sensitively measure cytosine
methylation on a genome-wide scale within specific sequence contexts. Here we
describe methylation on previously inaccessible components of the genome and
analyse the DNA methylation sequence composition and distribution. We also
describe the effect of various DNA methylation mutants on genome-wide methylation
patterns, and demonstrate that our newly developed library construction and
computational methods can be applied to large genomes such as that of mouse.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06745 
PMCID: PMC2377394
PMID: 18278030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):243-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06727. Epub 2008 Feb 13.

Transcriptional repression mediated by repositioning of genes to the nuclear
lamina.

Reddy KL(1), Zullo JM, Bertolino E, Singh H.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The University of Chicago, GCIS W522, 929
East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Nuclear compartmentalization seems to have an important role in regulating
metazoan genes. Although studies on immunoglobulin and other loci have shown a
correlation between positioning at the nuclear lamina and gene repression, the
functional consequences of this compartmentalization remain untested. We devised 
an approach for inducible tethering of genes to the inner nuclear membrane (INM),
and tested the consequences of such repositioning on gene activity in mouse
fibroblasts. Here, using three-dimensional DNA-immunoFISH, we demonstrate
repositioning of chromosomal regions to the nuclear lamina that is dependent on
breakdown and reformation of the nuclear envelope during mitosis. Moreover,
tethering leads to the accumulation of lamin and INM proteins, but not to
association with pericentromeric heterochromatin or nuclear pore complexes.
Recruitment of genes to the INM can result in their transcriptional repression.
Finally, we use targeted adenine methylation (DamID) to show that, as is the case
for our model system, inactive immunoglobulin loci at the nuclear periphery are
contacted by INM and lamina proteins. We propose that these molecular
interactions may be used to compartmentalize and to limit the accessibility of
immunoglobulin loci to transcription and recombination factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06727 
PMID: 18272965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06640.

Transient cyclical methylation of promoter DNA.

Kangaspeska S(1), Stride B, Métivier R, Polycarpou-Schwarz M, Ibberson D,
Carmouche RP, Benes V, Gannon F, Reid G.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, D-69117 Heidelberg, 
Germany.

Methylation of CpG dinucleotides is generally associated with epigenetic
silencing of transcription and is maintained through cellular division. Multiple 
CpG sequences are rare in mammalian genomes, but frequently occur at the
transcriptional start site of active genes, with most clusters of CpGs being
hypomethylated. We reported previously that the proximal region of the trefoil
factor 1 (TFF1, also known as pS2) and oestrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)
promoters could be partially methylated by treatment with deacetylase inhibitors,
suggesting the possibility of dynamic changes in DNA methylation. Here we show
that cyclical methylation and demethylation of CpG dinucleotides, with a
periodicity of around 100 min, is characteristic for five selected promoters,
including the oestrogen (E2)-responsive pS2 gene, in human cells. When the pS2
gene is actively transcribed, DNA methylation occurs after the cyclical occupancy
of ERalpha and RNA polymerase II (polII). Moreover, we report conditions that
provoke methylation cycling of the pS2 promoter in cell lines in which pS2
expression is quiescent and the proximal promoter is methylated. This coincides
with a low-level re-expression of ERalpha and of pS2 transcripts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06640 
PMID: 18322535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):88-92. doi: 10.1038/nature06556.

The genome of Laccaria bicolor provides insights into mycorrhizal symbiosis.

Martin F(1), Aerts A, Ahrén D, Brun A, Danchin EG, Duchaussoy F, Gibon J, Kohler 
A, Lindquist E, Pereda V, Salamov A, Shapiro HJ, Wuyts J, Blaudez D, Buée M,
Brokstein P, Canbäck B, Cohen D, Courty PE, Coutinho PM, Delaruelle C, Detter JC,
Deveau A, DiFazio S, Duplessis S, Fraissinet-Tachet L, Lucic E, Frey-Klett P,
Fourrey C, Feussner I, Gay G, Grimwood J, Hoegger PJ, Jain P, Kilaru S, Labbé J, 
Lin YC, Legué V, Le Tacon F, Marmeisse R, Melayah D, Montanini B, Muratet M,
Nehls U, Niculita-Hirzel H, Oudot-Le Secq MP, Peter M, Quesneville H, Rajashekar 
B, Reich M, Rouhier N, Schmutz J, Yin T, Chalot M, Henrissat B, Kües U, Lucas S, 
Van de Peer Y, Podila GK, Polle A, Pukkila PJ, Richardson PM, Rouzé P, Sanders
IR, Stajich JE, Tunlid A, Tuskan G, Grigoriev IV.

Author information: 
(1)UMR 1136, INRA-Nancy Université, Interactions Arbres/Microorganismes,
INRA-Nancy, 54280 Champenoux, France. fmartin@nancy.inra.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):42-3.

Mycorrhizal symbioses--the union of roots and soil fungi--are universal in
terrestrial ecosystems and may have been fundamental to land colonization by
plants. Boreal, temperate and montane forests all depend on ectomycorrhizae.
Identification of the primary factors that regulate symbiotic development and
metabolic activity will therefore open the door to understanding the role of
ectomycorrhizae in plant development and physiology, allowing the full ecological
significance of this symbiosis to be explored. Here we report the genome sequence
of the ectomycorrhizal basidiomycete Laccaria bicolor (Fig. 1) and highlight gene
sets involved in rhizosphere colonization and symbiosis. This 65-megabase genome 
assembly contains approximately 20,000 predicted protein-encoding genes and a
very large number of transposons and repeated sequences. We detected unexpected
genomic features, most notably a battery of effector-type small secreted proteins
(SSPs) with unknown function, several of which are only expressed in symbiotic
tissues. The most highly expressed SSP accumulates in the proliferating hyphae
colonizing the host root. The ectomycorrhizae-specific SSPs probably have a
decisive role in the establishment of the symbiosis. The unexpected observation
that the genome of L. bicolor lacks carbohydrate-active enzymes involved in
degradation of plant cell walls, but maintains the ability to degrade non-plant
cell wall polysaccharides, reveals the dual saprotrophic and biotrophic lifestyle
of the mycorrhizal fungus that enables it to grow within both soil and living
plant roots. The predicted gene inventory of the L. bicolor genome, therefore,
points to previously unknown mechanisms of symbiosis operating in biotrophic
mycorrhizal fungi. The availability of this genome provides an unparalleled
opportunity to develop a deeper understanding of the processes by which symbionts
interact with plants within their ecosystem to perform vital functions in the
carbon and nitrogen cycles that are fundamental to sustainable plant
productivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06556 
PMID: 18322534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06610.

High-amplitude fluctuations and alternative dynamical states of midges in Lake
Myvatn.

Ives AR(1), Einarsson A, Jansen VA, Gardarsson A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
53706, USA. arives@wisc.edu

Complex dynamics are often shown by simple ecological models and have been
clearly demonstrated in laboratory and natural systems. Yet many classes of
theoretically possible dynamics are still poorly documented in nature. Here we
study long-term time-series data of a midge, Tanytarsus gracilentus (Diptera:
Chironomidae), in Lake Myvatn, Iceland. The midge undergoes density fluctuations 
of almost six orders of magnitude. Rather than regular cycles, however, these
fluctuations have irregular periods of 4-7 years, indicating complex dynamics. We
fit three consumer-resource models capable of qualitatively distinct dynamics to 
the data. Of these, the best-fitting model shows alternative dynamical states in 
the absence of environmental variability; depending on the initial midge
densities, the model shows either fluctuations around a fixed point or
high-amplitude cycles. This explains the observed complex population dynamics:
high-amplitude but irregular fluctuations occur because stochastic variability
causes the dynamics to switch between domains of attraction to the alternative
states. In the model, the amplitude of fluctuations depends strongly on minute
resource subsidies into the midge habitat. These resource subsidies may be
sensitive to human-caused changes in the hydrology of the lake, with human
impacts such as dredging leading to higher-amplitude fluctuations. Tanytarsus
gracilentus is a key component of the Myvatn ecosystem, representing two-thirds
of the secondary productivity of the lake and providing vital food resources to
fish and to breeding bird populations. Therefore the high-amplitude, irregular
fluctuations in midge densities generated by alternative dynamical states
dominate much of the ecology of the lake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06610 
PMID: 18322533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06689.

Near-isothermal conditions in the middle and lower crust induced by melt
migration.

Depine GV(1), Andronicos CL, Phipps-Morgan J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Snee Hall, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York 14853, USA. gvd2@cornell.edu

The thermal structure of the crust strongly influences deformation, metamorphism 
and plutonism. Models for the geothermal gradient in stable crust predict a
steady increase of temperature with depth. This thermal structure, however, is
incompatible with observations from high-temperature metamorphic terranes exhumed
in orogens. Global compilations of peak conditions in high-temperature
metamorphic terranes define relatively narrow ranges of peak temperatures over a 
wide range in pressure, for both isothermal decompression and isobaric cooling
paths. Here we develop simple one-dimensional thermal models that include the
effects of melt migration. These models show that long-lived plutonism results in
a quasi-steady-state geotherm with a rapid temperature increase in the upper
crust and nearly isothermal conditions in the middle and lower crust. The models 
also predict that the upward advection of heat by melt generates granulite facies
metamorphism, and widespread andalusite-sillimanite metamorphism in the upper
crust. Once the quasi-steady-state thermal profile is reached, the middle and
lower crust are greatly weakened due to high temperatures and anatectic
conditions, thus setting the stage for gravitational collapse, exhumation and
isothermal decompression after the onset of plutonism. Near-isothermal conditions
in the middle and lower crust result from the thermal buffering effect of
dehydration melting reactions that, in part, control the shape of the geotherm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06689 
PMID: 18322532 


791. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06619.

Multi-membrane hydrogels.

Ladet S(1), David L, Domard A.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, UMR CNRS 5223, Ingénierie des Matériaux
Polymères (IMP), Laboratoire des Matériaux Polymères et des Biomatériaux, 15
Boulevard A. Latarjet, Bâtiment ISTIL, F-69622 Villeurbanne Cedex, France.

Polysaccharide-based hydrogels are useful for numerous applications, from food
and cosmetic processing to drug delivery and tissue engineering. The formation of
hydrogels from polyelectrolyte solutions is complex, involving a variety of
molecular interactions. The physical gelation of polysaccharides can be achieved 
by balancing solvophobic and solvophilic interactions. Polymer chain
reorganization can be obtained by solvent exchange, one of the processing routes 
forming a simple hydrogel assembly. Nevertheless, many studies on hydrogel
formation are empirical with a limited understanding of the mechanisms involved, 
delaying the processing of more complex structures. Here we use a multi-step
interrupted gelation process in controlled physico-chemical conditions to
generate complex hydrogels with multi-membrane 'onion-like' architectures. Our
approach greatly simplifies the processing of gels with complex shapes and a
multi-membrane organization. In contrast with existing assemblies described in
the literature, our method allows the formation of free 'inter-membrane' spaces
well suited for cell or drug introduction. These architectures, potentially
useful in biomedical applications, open interesting perspectives by taking
advantage of tailor-made three-dimensional multi-membrane tubular or spherical
structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06619 
PMID: 18322531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06715.

Strong dispersive coupling of a high-finesse cavity to a micromechanical
membrane.

Thompson JD(1), Zwickl BM, Jayich AM, Marquardt F, Girvin SM, Harris JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yale University, 217 Prospect Street, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):900.

Macroscopic mechanical objects and electromagnetic degrees of freedom can couple 
to each other through radiation pressure. Optomechanical systems in which this
coupling is sufficiently strong are predicted to show quantum effects and are a
topic of considerable interest. Devices in this regime would offer new types of
control over the quantum state of both light and matter, and would provide a new 
arena in which to explore the boundary between quantum and classical physics.
Experiments so far have achieved sufficient optomechanical coupling to laser-cool
mechanical devices, but have not yet reached the quantum regime. The outstanding 
technical challenge in this field is integrating sensitive micromechanical
elements (which must be small, light and flexible) into high-finesse cavities
(which are typically rigid and massive) without compromising the mechanical or
optical properties of either. A second, and more fundamental, challenge is to
read out the mechanical element's energy eigenstate. Displacement measurements
(no matter how sensitive) cannot determine an oscillator's energy eigenstate, and
measurements coupling to quantities other than displacement have been difficult
to realize in practice. Here we present an optomechanical system that has the
potential to resolve both of these challenges. We demonstrate a cavity which is
detuned by the motion of a 50-nm-thick dielectric membrane placed between two
macroscopic, rigid, high-finesse mirrors. This approach segregates optical and
mechanical functionality to physically distinct structures and avoids
compromising either. It also allows for direct measurement of the square of the
membrane's displacement, and thus in principle the membrane's energy eigenstate. 
We estimate that it should be practical to use this scheme to observe quantum
jumps of a mechanical system, an important goal in the field of quantum
measurement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06715 
PMID: 18322530 


793. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):67-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06670.

Mapping photonic entanglement into and out of a quantum memory.

Choi KS(1), Deng H, Laurat J, Kimble HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics 12-33, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):37-8.

Developments in quantum information science rely critically on entanglement-a
fundamental aspect of quantum mechanics that causes parts of a composite system
to show correlations stronger than can be explained classically. In particular,
scalable quantum networks require the capability to create, store and distribute 
entanglement among distant matter nodes by means of photonic channels. Atomic
ensembles can play the role of such nodes. So far, in the photon-counting regime,
heralded entanglement between atomic ensembles has been successfully demonstrated
through probabilistic protocols. But an inherent drawback of this approach is the
compromise between the amount of entanglement and its preparation probability,
leading to intrinsically low count rates for high entanglement. Here we report a 
protocol where entanglement between two atomic ensembles is created by coherent
mapping of an entangled state of light. By splitting a single photon and
performing subsequent state transfer, we separate the generation of entanglement 
and its storage. After a programmable delay, the stored entanglement is mapped
back into photonic modes with overall efficiency of 17%. Together with
improvements in single-photon sources, our protocol will allow 'on-demand'
entanglement of atomic ensembles, a powerful resource for quantum information
science.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06670 
PMID: 18322529 


794. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):62-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06741.

The unexpected origin of plasmaspheric hiss from discrete chorus emissions.

Bortnik J(1), Thorne RM, Meredith NP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of California, Los 
Angeles, 405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
jbortnik@gmail.com

Plasmaspheric hiss is a type of electromagnetic wave found ubiquitously in the
dense plasma region that encircles the Earth, known as the plasmasphere. This
important wave is known to remove the high-energy electrons that are trapped
along the Earth's magnetic field lines, and therefore helps to reduce the
radiation hazards to satellites and humans in space. Numerous theories to explain
the origin of hiss have been proposed over the past four decades, but none have
been able to account fully for its observed properties. Here we show that a
different wave type called chorus, previously thought to be unrelated to hiss,
can propagate into the plasmasphere from tens of thousands of kilometres away,
and evolve into hiss. Our new model naturally accounts for the observed frequency
band of hiss, its incoherent nature, its day-night asymmetry in intensity, its
association with solar activity and its spatial distribution. The connection
between chorus and hiss is very interesting because chorus is instrumental in the
formation of high-energy electrons outside the plasmasphere, whereas hiss
depletes these electrons at lower equatorial altitudes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06741 
PMID: 18322528 


795. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):56-61. doi: 10.1038/nature06636.

Structure and metal exchange in the cadmium carbonic anhydrase of marine diatoms.

Xu Y(1), Feng L, Jeffrey PD, Shi Y, Morel FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, New
Jersey 08544, USA.

Carbonic anhydrase, a zinc enzyme found in organisms from all kingdoms, catalyses
the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide and is used for inorganic carbon
acquisition by phytoplankton. In the oceans, where zinc is nearly depleted,
diatoms use cadmium as a catalytic metal atom in cadmium carbonic anhydrase
(CDCA). Here we report the crystal structures of CDCA in four distinct forms:
cadmium-bound, zinc-bound, metal-free and acetate-bound. Despite lack of sequence
homology, CDCA is a structural mimic of a functional beta-carbonic anhydrase
dimer, with striking similarity in the spatial organization of the active site
residues. CDCA readily exchanges cadmium and zinc at its active site--an
apparently unique adaptation to oceanic life that is explained by a stable
opening of the metal coordinating site in the absence of metal. Given the central
role of diatoms in exporting carbon to the deep sea, their use of cadmium in an
enzyme critical for carbon acquisition establishes a remarkable link between the 
global cycles of cadmium and carbon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06636 
PMID: 18322527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):51-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06684.

The MC-Fold and MC-Sym pipeline infers RNA structure from sequence data.

Parisien M(1), Major F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer, Department of Computer
Science and Operations Research, Université de Montréal, PO Box 6128, Downtown
Station, Montréal, Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.

The classical RNA secondary structure model considers A.U and G.C Watson-Crick as
well as G.U wobble base pairs. Here we substitute it for a new one, in which sets
of nucleotide cyclic motifs define RNA structures. This model allows us to unify 
all base pairing energetic contributions in an effective scoring function to
tackle the problem of RNA folding. We show how pipelining two computer algorithms
based on nucleotide cyclic motifs, MC-Fold and MC-Sym, reproduces a series of
experimentally determined RNA three-dimensional structures from the sequence.
This demonstrates how crucial the consideration of all base-pairing interactions 
is in filling the gap between sequence and structure. We use the pipeline to
define rules of precursor microRNA folding in double helices, despite the
presence of a number of presumed mismatches and bulges, and to propose a new
model of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 -1 frame-shifting element.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06684 
PMID: 18322526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):45-50. doi: 10.1038/nature06544.

Cyclical DNA methylation of a transcriptionally active promoter.

Métivier R(1), Gallais R, Tiffoche C, Le Péron C, Jurkowska RZ, Carmouche RP,
Ibberson D, Barath P, Demay F, Reid G, Benes V, Jeltsch A, Gannon F, Salbert G.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Rennes I, CNRS, UMR 6026 Equipe SPARTE, IFR 140 GFAS, Campus de 
Beaulieu, 35042 Rennes cedex, France. Raphael.Metivier@univ-rennes1.fr

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):384.

Processes that regulate gene transcription are directly under the influence of
the genome organization. The epigenome contains additional information that is
not brought by DNA sequence, and generates spatial and functional constraints
that complement genetic instructions. DNA methylation on CpGs constitutes an
epigenetic mark generally correlated with transcriptionally silent condensed
chromatin. Replication of methylation patterns by DNA methyltransferases
maintains genome stability through cell division. Here we present evidence of an 
unanticipated dynamic role for DNA methylation in gene regulation in human cells.
Periodic, strand-specific methylation/demethylation occurs during transcriptional
cycling of the pS2/TFF1 gene promoter on activation by oestrogens. DNA
methyltransferases exhibit dual actions during these cycles, being involved in
CpG methylation and active demethylation of 5mCpGs through deamination.
Inhibition of this process precludes demethylation of the pS2 gene promoter and
its subsequent transcriptional activation. Cyclical changes in the methylation
status of promoter CpGs may thus represent a critical event in transcriptional
achievement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06544 
PMID: 18322525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):E1; discussion E1-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06574.

Arousal by stimulation of deep-brain nuclei.

Staunton H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, Royal College of Surgeons in
Ireland, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin 9, Ireland. hugh@iol.ie.

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Aug 2;448(7153):600-3.

Schiff et al. show that deep-brain stimulation of the unspecific thalamocortical 
system through certain midline thalamic nuclei produces an alerting effect in a
patient in a minimally conscious state. Such nuclei include the central lateral
nucleus, paralaminar regions of the median dorsalis, and the posterior-medial
aspect of the centromedian/parafascicularis nucleus complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06574 
PMID: 18322474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06612. Epub 2008 Feb 24.

Identification of a serotonin/glutamate receptor complex implicated in psychosis.

González-Maeso J(1), Ang RL, Yuen T, Chan P, Weisstaub NV, López-Giménez JF, Zhou
M, Okawa Y, Callado LF, Milligan G, Gingrich JA, Filizola M, Meana JJ, Sealfon
SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York
10029, USA. javier.maeso@mssm.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):38-9.

The psychosis associated with schizophrenia is characterized by alterations in
sensory processing and perception. Some antipsychotic drugs were identified by
their high affinity for serotonin 5-HT2A receptors (2AR). Drugs that interact
with metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) also have potential for the
treatment of schizophrenia. The effects of hallucinogenic drugs, such as
psilocybin and lysergic acid diethylamide, require the 2AR and resemble some of
the core symptoms of schizophrenia. Here we show that the mGluR2 interacts
through specific transmembrane helix domains with the 2AR, a member of an
unrelated G-protein-coupled receptor family, to form functional complexes in
brain cortex. The 2AR-mGluR2 complex triggers unique cellular responses when
targeted by hallucinogenic drugs, and activation of mGluR2 abolishes
hallucinogen-specific signalling and behavioural responses. In post-mortem human 
brain from untreated schizophrenic subjects, the 2AR is upregulated and the
mGluR2 is downregulated, a pattern that could predispose to psychosis. These
regulatory changes indicate that the 2AR-mGluR2 complex may be involved in the
altered cortical processes of schizophrenia, and this complex is therefore a
promising new target for the treatment of psychosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06612 
PMCID: PMC2743172
PMID: 18297054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature06604. Epub 2008 Feb 20.

Hax1-mediated processing of HtrA2 by Parl allows survival of lymphocytes and
neurons.

Chao JR(1), Parganas E, Boyd K, Hong CY, Opferman JT, Ihle JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):900.

Cytokines affect a variety of cellular functions, including regulation of cell
numbers by suppression of programmed cell death. Suppression of apoptosis
requires receptor signalling through the activation of Janus kinases and the
subsequent regulation of members of the B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) family. Here we
demonstrate that a Bcl-2-family-related protein, Hax1, is required to suppress
apoptosis in lymphocytes and neurons. Suppression requires the interaction of
Hax1 with the mitochondrial proteases Parl (presenilin-associated, rhomboid-like)
and HtrA2 (high-temperature-regulated A2, also known as Omi). These interactions 
allow Hax1 to present HtrA2 to Parl, and thereby facilitates the processing of
HtrA2 to the active protease localized in the mitochondrial intermembrane space. 
In mouse lymphocytes, the presence of processed HtrA2 prevents the accumulation
of mitochondrial-outer-membrane-associated activated Bax, an event that initiates
apoptosis. Together, the results identify a previously unknown sequence of
interactions involving a Bcl-2-family-related protein and mitochondrial proteases
in the ability to resist the induction of apoptosis when cytokines are limiting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06604 
PMID: 18288109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):116-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06638. Epub 2008 Feb 20.

Structure of the DNA deaminase domain of the HIV-1 restriction factor APOBEC3G.

Chen KM(1), Harjes E, Gross PJ, Fahmy A, Lu Y, Shindo K, Harris RS, Matsuo H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Biophysics, [of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

The human APOBEC3G (apolipoprotein B messenger-RNA-editing enzyme, catalytic
polypeptide-like 3G) protein is a single-strand DNA deaminase that inhibits the
replication of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), other retroviruses and
retrotransposons. APOBEC3G anti-viral activity is circumvented by most
retroelements, such as through degradation by HIV-1 Vif. APOBEC3G is a member of 
a family of polynucleotide cytosine deaminases, several of which also target
distinct physiological substrates. For instance, APOBEC1 edits APOB mRNA and AID 
deaminates antibody gene DNA. Although structures of other family members exist, 
none of these proteins has elicited polynucleotide cytosine deaminase or
anti-viral activity. Here we report a solution structure of the human APOBEC3G
catalytic domain. Five alpha-helices, including two that form the
zinc-coordinating active site, are arranged over a hydrophobic platform
consisting of five beta-strands. NMR DNA titration experiments, computational
modelling, phylogenetic conservation and Escherichia coli-based activity assays
combine to suggest a DNA-binding model in which a brim of positively charged
residues positions the target cytosine for catalysis. The structure of the
APOBEC3G catalytic domain will help us to understand functions of other family
members and interactions that occur with pathogenic proteins such as HIV-1 Vif.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06638 
PMID: 18288108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06664. Epub 2008 Feb 20.

The inflammasome recognizes cytosolic microbial and host DNA and triggers an
innate immune response.

Muruve DA(1), Pétrilli V, Zaiss AK, White LR, Clark SA, Ross PJ, Parks RJ,
Tschopp J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1, Canada.

The innate immune system recognizes nucleic acids during infection and tissue
damage. Whereas viral RNA is detected by endosomal toll-like receptors (TLR3,
TLR7, TLR8) and cytoplasmic RIG-I and MDA5, endosomal TLR9 and cytoplasmic DAI
bind DNA, resulting in the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB and interferon
regulatory factor transcription factors. However, viruses also trigger
pro-inflammatory responses, which remain poorly defined. Here we show that
internalized adenoviral DNA induces maturation of pro-interleukin-1beta in
macrophages, which is dependent on NALP3 and ASC, components of the innate
cytosolic molecular complex termed the inflammasome. Correspondingly, NALP3- and 
ASC-deficient mice display reduced innate inflammatory responses to adenovirus
particles. Inflammasome activation also occurs as a result of transfected
cytosolic bacterial, viral and mammalian (host) DNA, but in this case sensing is 
dependent on ASC but not NALP3. The DNA-sensing pro-inflammatory pathway
functions independently of TLRs and interferon regulatory factors. Thus, in
addition to viral and bacterial components or danger signals in general,
inflammasomes sense potentially dangerous cytoplasmic DNA, strengthening their
central role in innate immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06664 
PMID: 18288107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Nature. 2008 Mar 6;452(7183):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature06683. Epub 2008 Feb 20.

A peptide deformylase-ribosome complex reveals mechanism of nascent chain
processing.

Bingel-Erlenmeyer R(1), Kohler R, Kramer G, Sandikci A, Antolić S, Maier T,
Schaffitzel C, Wiedmann B, Bukau B, Ban N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland.

Messenger-RNA-directed protein synthesis is accomplished by the ribosome. In
eubacteria, this complex process is initiated by a specialized transfer RNA
charged with formylmethionine (tRNA(fMet)). The amino-terminal formylated
methionine of all bacterial nascent polypeptides blocks the reactive amino group 
to prevent unfavourable side-reactions and to enhance the efficiency of
translation initiation. The first enzymatic factor that processes nascent chains 
is peptide deformylase (PDF); it removes this formyl group as polypeptides emerge
from the ribosomal tunnel and before the newly synthesized proteins can adopt
their native fold, which may bury the N terminus. Next, the N-terminal methionine
is excised by methionine aminopeptidase. Bacterial PDFs are metalloproteases
sharing a conserved N-terminal catalytic domain. All Gram-negative bacteria,
including Escherichia coli, possess class-1 PDFs characterized by a
carboxy-terminal alpha-helical extension. Studies focusing on PDF as a target for
antibacterial drugs have not revealed the mechanism of its co-translational mode 
of action despite indications in early work that it co-purifies with ribosomes.
Here we provide biochemical evidence that E. coli PDF interacts directly with the
ribosome via its C-terminal extension. Crystallographic analysis of the complex
between the ribosome-interacting helix of PDF and the ribosome at 3.7 A
resolution reveals that the enzyme orients its active site towards the ribosomal 
tunnel exit for efficient co-translational processing of emerging nascent chains.
Furthermore, we have found that the interaction of PDF with the ribosome enhances
cell viability. These results provide the structural basis for understanding the 
coupling between protein synthesis and enzymatic processing of nascent chains,
and offer insights into the interplay of PDF with the ribosome-associated
chaperone trigger factor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06683 
PMID: 18288106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1130-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06665.

Backbone structure of the infectious epsilon15 virus capsid revealed by electron 
cryomicroscopy.

Jiang W(1), Baker ML, Jakana J, Weigele PR, King J, Chiu W.

Author information: 
(1)Markey Center for Structural Biology, Department of Biological Sciences,
Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA. jiang12@purdue.edu

A half-century after the determination of the first three-dimensional crystal
structure of a protein, more than 40,000 structures ranging from single
polypeptides to large assemblies have been reported. The challenge for
crystallographers, however, remains the growing of a diffracting crystal. Here we
report the 4.5-A resolution structure of a 22-MDa macromolecular assembly, the
capsid of the infectious epsilon15 (epsilon15) particle, by single-particle
electron cryomicroscopy. From this density map we constructed a complete backbone
trace of its major capsid protein, gene product 7 (gp7). The structure reveals a 
similar protein architecture to that of other tailed double-stranded DNA viruses,
even in the absence of detectable sequence similarity. However, the connectivity 
of the secondary structure elements (topology) in gp7 is unique. Protruding
densities are observed around the two-fold axes that cannot be accounted for by
gp7. A subsequent proteomic analysis of the whole virus identifies these
densities as gp10, a 12-kDa protein. Its structure, location and high binding
affinity to the capsid indicate that the gp10 dimer functions as a molecular
staple between neighbouring capsomeres to ensure the particle's stability. Beyond
epsilon15, this method potentially offers a new approach for modelling the
backbone conformations of the protein subunits in other macromolecular assemblies
at near-native solution states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06665 
PMID: 18305544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1103-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06532.

Selection overrides gene flow to break down maladaptive mimicry.

Harper GR Jr(1), Pfennig DW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599, USA.

Predators typically avoid dangerous species, and batesian mimicry evolves when a 
palatable species (the 'mimic') co-opts a warning signal from a dangerous species
(the 'model') and thereby deceives its potential predators. Because predators
would not be under selection to avoid the model and any of its look-alikes in
areas where the model is absent (that is, allopatry), batesian mimics should
occur only in sympatry with their model. However, contrary to this expectation,
batesian mimics often occur in allopatry. Here we focus on one such example--a
coral snake mimic. Using indirect DNA-based methods, we provide evidence
suggesting that mimics migrate from sympatry, where mimicry is favoured, to
allopatry, where it is disfavoured. Such gene flow is much stronger in nuclear
genes than in maternally inherited mitochondrial genes, indicating that dispersal
by males may explain the presence of mimetic phenotypes in allopatry. Despite
this gene flow, however, individuals from allopatry resemble the model less than 
do individuals from sympatry. We show that this breakdown of mimicry probably
reflects predator-mediated selection acting against individuals expressing the
more conspicuous mimetic phenotype in allopatry. Thus, although gene flow may
explain why batesian mimics occur in allopatry, natural selection may often
override such gene flow and promote the evolution of non-mimetic phenotypes in
such areas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06532 
PMID: 18305543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1098-102. doi: 10.1038/nature06518.

Scaling laws of marine predator search behaviour.

Sims DW(1), Southall EJ, Humphries NE, Hays GC, Bradshaw CJ, Pitchford JW, James 
A, Ahmed MZ, Brierley AS, Hindell MA, Morritt D, Musyl MK, Righton D, Shepard EL,
Wearmouth VJ, Wilson RP, Witt MJ, Metcalfe JD.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom, The Laboratory, Citadel
Hill, Plymouth PL1 2PB, UK. dws@mba.ac.uk

Many free-ranging predators have to make foraging decisions with little, if any, 
knowledge of present resource distribution and availability. The optimal search
strategy they should use to maximize encounter rates with prey in heterogeneous
natural environments remains a largely unresolved issue in ecology. Lévy walks
are specialized random walks giving rise to fractal movement trajectories that
may represent an optimal solution for searching complex landscapes. However, the 
adaptive significance of this putative strategy in response to natural prey
distributions remains untested. Here we analyse over a million movement
displacements recorded from animal-attached electronic tags to show that diverse 
marine predators-sharks, bony fishes, sea turtles and penguins-exhibit
Lévy-walk-like behaviour close to a theoretical optimum. Prey density
distributions also display Lévy-like fractal patterns, suggesting response
movements by predators to prey distributions. Simulations show that predators
have higher encounter rates when adopting Lévy-type foraging in natural-like prey
fields compared with purely random landscapes. This is consistent with the
hypothesis that observed search patterns are adapted to observed statistical
patterns of the landscape. This may explain why Lévy-like behaviour seems to be
widespread among diverse organisms, from microbes to humans, as a 'rule' that
evolved in response to patchy resource distributions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06518 
PMID: 18305542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1090-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06692.

Millennial- and orbital-scale changes in the East Asian monsoon over the past
224,000 years.

Wang Y(1), Cheng H, Edwards RL, Kong X, Shao X, Chen S, Wu J, Jiang X, Wang X, An
Z.

Author information: 
(1)College of Geography Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, Jiangsu
210097, China. yjwang@njnu.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1061-3.

High-resolution speleothem records from China have provided insights into the
factors that control the strength of the East Asian monsoon. Our understanding of
these factors remains incomplete, however, owing to gaps in the record of monsoon
history over the past two interglacial-glacial cycles. In particular, missing
sections have hampered our ability to test ideas about orbital-scale controls on 
the monsoon, the causes of millennial-scale events and relationships between
changes in the monsoon and climate in other regions. Here we present an
absolute-dated oxygen isotope record from Sanbao cave, central China, that
completes a Chinese-cave-based record of the strength of the East Asian monsoon
that covers the past 224,000 years. The record is dominated by 23,000-year-long
cycles that are synchronous within dating errors with summer insolation at 65
degrees N (ref. 10), supporting the idea that tropical/subtropical monsoons
respond dominantly and directly to changes in Northern Hemisphere summer
insolation on orbital timescales. The cycles are punctuated by millennial-scale
strong-summer-monsoon events (Chinese interstadials), and the new record allows
us to identify the complete series of these events over the past two
interglacial-glacial cycles. Their duration decreases and their frequency
increases during glacial build-up in both the last and penultimate glacial
periods, indicating that ice sheet size affects their character and pacing. The
ages of the events are exceptionally well constrained and may thus serve as
benchmarks for correlating and calibrating climate records.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06692 
PMID: 18305541 


808. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1085-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06598.

Designing metallic glass matrix composites with high toughness and tensile
ductility.

Hofmann DC(1), Suh JY, Wiest A, Duan G, Lind ML, Demetriou MD, Johnson WL.

Author information: 
(1)Keck Laboratory of Engineering Materials, California Institute of Technology, 
Pasadena, California 91125, USA. dch@caltech.edu

The selection and design of modern high-performance structural engineering
materials is driven by optimizing combinations of mechanical properties such as
strength, ductility, toughness, elasticity and requirements for predictable and
graceful (non-catastrophic) failure in service. Highly processable bulk metallic 
glasses (BMGs) are a new class of engineering materials and have attracted
significant technological interest. Although many BMGs exhibit high strength and 
show substantial fracture toughness, they lack ductility and fail in an
apparently brittle manner in unconstrained loading geometries. For instance, some
BMGs exhibit significant plastic deformation in compression or bending tests, but
all exhibit negligible plasticity (<0.5% strain) in uniaxial tension. To overcome
brittle failure in tension, BMG-matrix composites have been introduced. The
inhomogeneous microstructure with isolated dendrites in a BMG matrix stabilizes
the glass against the catastrophic failure associated with unlimited extension of
a shear band and results in enhanced global plasticity and more graceful failure.
Tensile strengths of approximately 1 GPa, tensile ductility of approximately 2-3 
per cent, and an enhanced mode I fracture toughness of K(1C) approximately 40 MPa
m(1/2) were reported. Building on this approach, we have developed 'designed
composites' by matching fundamental mechanical and microstructural length scales.
Here, we report titanium-zirconium-based BMG composites with room-temperature
tensile ductility exceeding 10 per cent, yield strengths of 1.2-1.5 GPa, K(1C) up
to approximately 170 MPa m(1/2), and fracture energies for crack propagation as
high as G(1C) approximately 340 kJ m(-2). The K(1C) and G(1C) values equal or
surpass those achievable in the toughest titanium or steel alloys, placing BMG
composites among the toughest known materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06598 
PMID: 18305540 


809. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1082-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06620.

A minimum column density of 1 g cm(-2) for massive star formation.

Krumholz MR(1), McKee CF.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysics Department, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
USA. krumholz@astro.princeton.edu

Massive stars are very rare, but their extreme luminosities make them both the
only type of young star we can observe in distant galaxies and the dominant
energy sources in the Universe today. They form rarely because efficient
radiative cooling keeps most star--forming gas clouds close to isothermal as they
collapse, and this favours fragmentation into stars of one solar mass or lower.
Heating of a cloud by accreting low-mass stars within it can prevent
fragmentation and allow formation of massive stars, but the necessary properties 
for a cloud to form massive stars-and therefore where massive stars form in a
galaxy--have not yet been determined. Here we show that only clouds with column
densities of at least 1 g cm(-2) can avoid fragmentation and form massive stars. 
This threshold, and the environmental variation of the stellar initial mass
function that it implies, naturally explain the characteristic column densities
associated with massive star clusters and the difference between the radial
profiles of Halpha and ultraviolet emission in galactic disks. The existence of a
threshold also implies that the initial mass function should show detectable
variation with environment within the Galaxy, that the characteristic column
densities of clusters containing massive stars should vary between galaxies, and 
that star formation rates in some galactic environments may have been
systematically underestimated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06620 
PMID: 18305539 


810. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1069-75. doi: 10.1038/nature06639.

Autophagy fights disease through cellular self-digestion.

Mizushima N(1), Levine B, Cuervo AM, Klionsky DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Cell Biology, Tokyo Medical and Dental
University, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan.

Autophagy, or cellular self-digestion, is a cellular pathway involved in protein 
and organelle degradation, with an astonishing number of connections to human
disease and physiology. For example, autophagic dysfunction is associated with
cancer, neurodegeneration, microbial infection and ageing. Paradoxically,
although autophagy is primarily a protective process for the cell, it can also
play a role in cell death. Understanding autophagy may ultimately allow
scientists and clinicians to harness this process for the purpose of improving
human health.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06639 
PMCID: PMC2670399
PMID: 18305538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):E8-9; discussion E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature06743.

Do animal personalities emerge?

Massol F(1), Crochet PA.

Author information: 
(1)UMR 5175 CEFE-Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CNRS), 1919 Route 
de Mende, F-34293 Montpellier cedex 05, France. francois.massol@cefe.cnrs.fr

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 May 31;447(7144):581-4.

The evolution of animal personalities is a topic of primary importance in
behavioural ecology. An intriguing empirical fact is the consistency of animal
responses to repeated stresses or threats. Wolf et al. propose an evolutionary
model to explain the emergence of consistent personalities. They show that a
population dimorphism for an exploration trait implies the existence of
behavioural syndromes, such as decreased aggressiveness and the boldness of
'thorough explorers'. This finding helps explain how animal responses can be
consistent, despite the seeming advantages of flexible responses. However, we
contend that the emergence of a dimorphism depends critically on the intensity of
the trade-off between exploration investment and first-year fecundity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06743 
PMID: 18305490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1076-81. doi: 10.1038/nature06559. Epub 2008 Feb
17.

Proteomic analysis of active multiple sclerosis lesions reveals therapeutic
targets.

Han MH(1), Hwang SI, Roy DB, Lundgren DH, Price JV, Ousman SS, Fernald GH,
Gerlitz B, Robinson WH, Baranzini SE, Grinnell BW, Raine CS, Sobel RA, Han DK,
Steinman L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Understanding the neuropathology of multiple sclerosis (MS) is essential for
improved therapies. Therefore, identification of targets specific to pathological
types of MS may have therapeutic benefits. Here we identify, by laser-capture
microdissection and proteomics, proteins unique to three major types of MS
lesions: acute plaque, chronic active plaque and chronic plaque. Comparative
proteomic profiles identified tissue factor and protein C inhibitor within
chronic active plaque samples, suggesting dysregulation of molecules associated
with coagulation. In vivo administration of hirudin or recombinant activated
protein C reduced disease severity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
and suppressed Th1 and Th17 cytokines in astrocytes and immune cells.
Administration of mutant forms of recombinant activated protein C showed that
both its anticoagulant and its signalling functions were essential for optimal
amelioration of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. A proteomic approach
illuminated potential therapeutic targets selective for specific pathological
stages of MS and implicated participation of the coagulation cascade.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06559 
PMID: 18278032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1125-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06607. Epub 2008 Feb 17.

Regulation of progenitor cell proliferation and granulocyte function by
microRNA-223.

Johnnidis JB(1), Harris MH, Wheeler RT, Stehling-Sun S, Lam MH, Kirak O,
Brummelkamp TR, Fleming MD, Camargo FD.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.

MicroRNAs are abundant in animal genomes and have been predicted to have
important roles in a broad range of gene expression programmes. Despite this
prominence, there is a dearth of functional knowledge regarding individual
mammalian microRNAs. Using a loss-of-function allele in mice, we report here that
the myeloid-specific microRNA-223 (miR-223) negatively regulates progenitor
proliferation and granulocyte differentiation and activation. miR-223 (also
called Mirn223) mutant mice have an expanded granulocytic compartment resulting
from a cell-autonomous increase in the number of granulocyte progenitors. We show
that Mef2c, a transcription factor that promotes myeloid progenitor
proliferation, is a target of miR-223, and that genetic ablation of Mef2c
suppresses progenitor expansion and corrects the neutrophilic phenotype in
miR-223 null mice. In addition, granulocytes lacking miR-223 are hypermature,
hypersensitive to activating stimuli and display increased fungicidal activity.
As a consequence of this neutrophil hyperactivity, miR-223 mutant mice
spontaneously develop inflammatory lung pathology and exhibit exaggerated tissue 
destruction after endotoxin challenge. Our data support a model in which miR-223 
acts as a fine-tuner of granulocyte production and the inflammatory response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06607 
PMID: 18278031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1121-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06557. Epub 2008 Feb 13.

Gamete formation without meiosis in Arabidopsis.

Ravi M(1), Marimuthu MP, Siddiqi I.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Uppal Road, Hyderabad 500007,
India.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1063-4.

Apomixis, the formation of asexual seeds in plants, leads to populations that are
genetically uniform maternal clones. The transfer of apomixis to crop plants
holds great promise in plant breeding for fixation of heterozygosity and hybrid
vigour because it would allow the propagation of hybrids over successive
generations. Apomixis involves the production of unreduced (diploid) female
gametes that retain the genotype of the parent plant (apomeiosis), followed by
parthenogenetic development of the egg cell into an embryo and the formation of
functional endosperm. The molecular mechanisms underlying apomixis are unknown.
Here we show that mutation of the Arabidopsis gene DYAD/SWITCH1 (SWI1), a
regulator of meiotic chromosome organization, leads to apomeiosis. We found that 
most fertile ovules in dyad plants form seeds that are triploid and that arise
from the fertilization of an unreduced female gamete by a haploid male gamete.
The unreduced female gametes fully retain parental heterozygosity across the
genome, which is characteristic of apomeiosis. Our results show that the
alteration of a single gene in a sexual plant can bring about functional
apomeiosis, a major component of apomixis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06557 
PMID: 18272967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature06558. Epub 2008 Feb
13.

Facultative cheater mutants reveal the genetic complexity of cooperation in
social amoebae.

Santorelli LA(1), Thompson CR, Villegas E, Svetz J, Dinh C, Parikh A, Sucgang R, 
Kuspa A, Strassmann JE, Queller DC, Shaulsky G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Rice University, Houston,
Texas 77005, USA.

Cooperation is central to many major transitions in evolution, including the
emergence of eukaryotic cells, multicellularity and eusociality. Cooperation can 
be destroyed by the spread of cheater mutants that do not cooperate but gain the 
benefits of cooperation from others. However, cooperation can be preserved if
cheaters are facultative, cheating others but cooperating among themselves.
Several cheater mutants have been studied before, but no study has attempted a
genome-scale investigation of the genetic opportunities for cheating. Here we
describe such a screen in a social amoeba and show that cheating is multifaceted 
by revealing cheater mutations in well over 100 genes of diverse types. Many of
these mutants cheat facultatively, producing more than their fair share of spores
in chimaeras, but cooperating normally when clonal. These findings indicate that 
phenotypically stable cooperative systems may nevertheless harbour genetic
conflicts. The opportunities for evolutionary moves and countermoves in such
conflicts may select for the involvement of multiple pathways and numerous genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06558 
PMID: 18272966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1111-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06548. Epub 2008 Feb 10.

Resistance to therapy caused by intragenic deletion in BRCA2.

Edwards SL(1), Brough R, Lord CJ, Natrajan R, Vatcheva R, Levine DA, Boyd J,
Reis-Filho JS, Ashworth A.

Author information: 
(1)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, The Institute of Cancer
Research, Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1066-7.

Cells with loss of BRCA2 function are defective in homologous recombination (HR) 
and are highly sensitive to inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP),
which provides the basis for a new therapeutic approach. Here we show that
resistance to PARP inhibition can be acquired by deletion of a mutation in BRCA2.
We derived PARP-inhibitor-resistant (PIR) clones from the human CAPAN1 pancreatic
cancer cell line, which carries the protein-truncating c.6174delT frameshift
mutation. PIR clones could form DNA-damage-induced RAD51 nuclear foci and were
able to limit genotoxin-induced genomic instability, both hallmarks of a
competent HR pathway. New BRCA2 isoforms were expressed in the resistant lines as
a result of intragenic deletion of the c.6174delT mutation and restoration of the
open reading frame (ORF). Reconstitution of BRCA2-deficient cells with these
revertant BRCA2 alleles rescued PARP inhibitor sensitivity and HR deficiency.
Most of the deletions in BRCA2 were associated with small tracts of homology, and
possibly arose from error-prone repair caused by BRCA2 deficiency. Similar
ORF-restoring mutations were present in carboplatin-resistant ovarian tumours
from c.6174delT mutation carriers. These observations have implications for
understanding drug resistance in BRCA mutation carriers as well as in defining
functionally important domains within BRCA2.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06548 
PMID: 18264088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature06633. Epub 2008 Feb
10.

Secondary mutations as a mechanism of cisplatin resistance in BRCA2-mutated
cancers.

Sakai W(1), Swisher EM, Karlan BY, Agarwal MK, Higgins J, Friedman C, Villegas E,
Jacquemont C, Farrugia DJ, Couch FJ, Urban N, Taniguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Biology, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109-1024, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1066-7.

Ovarian carcinomas with mutations in the tumour suppressor BRCA2 are particularly
sensitive to platinum compounds. However, such carcinomas ultimately develop
cisplatin resistance. The mechanism of that resistance is largely unknown. Here
we show that acquired resistance to cisplatin can be mediated by secondary
intragenic mutations in BRCA2 that restore the wild-type BRCA2 reading frame.
First, in a cisplatin-resistant BRCA2-mutated breast-cancer cell line, HCC1428, a
secondary genetic change in BRCA2 rescued BRCA2 function. Second, cisplatin
selection of a BRCA2-mutated pancreatic cancer cell line, Capan-1 (refs 3, 4),
led to five different secondary mutations that restored the wild-type BRCA2
reading frame. All clones with secondary mutations were resistant both to
cisplatin and to a poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor (AG14361).
Finally, we evaluated recurrent cancers from patients whose primary BRCA2-mutated
ovarian carcinomas were treated with cisplatin. The recurrent tumour that
acquired cisplatin resistance had undergone reversion of its BRCA2 mutation. Our 
results suggest that secondary mutations that restore the wild-type BRCA2 reading
frame may be a major clinical mediator of acquired resistance to platinum-based
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06633 
PMCID: PMC2577037
PMID: 18264087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Nature. 2008 Feb 28;451(7182):1094-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06550. Epub 2008 Jan 27.

Arc-parallel flow in the mantle wedge beneath Costa Rica and Nicaragua.

Hoernle K(1), Abt DL, Fischer KM, Nichols H, Hauff F, Abers GA, van den Bogaard
P, Heydolph K, Alvarado G, Protti M, Strauch W.

Author information: 
(1)SFB 574, University of Kiel, Wischhofstrasse 1-3, Kiel 24148, Germany.
khoernle@ifm-geomar.de

Resolving flow geometry in the mantle wedge is central to understanding the
thermal and chemical structure of subduction zones, subducting plate dehydration,
and melting that leads to arc volcanism, which can threaten large populations and
alter climate through gas and particle emission. Here we show that isotope
geochemistry and seismic velocity anisotropy provide strong evidence for
trench-parallel flow in the mantle wedge beneath Costa Rica and Nicaragua. This
finding contradicts classical models, which predict trench-normal flow owing to
the overlying wedge mantle being dragged downwards by the subducting plate. The
isotopic signature of central Costa Rican volcanic rocks is not consistent with
its derivation from the mantle wedge or eroded fore-arc complexes but instead
from seamounts of the Galapagos hotspot track on the subducting Cocos plate. This
isotopic signature decreases continuously from central Costa Rica to northwestern
Nicaragua. As the age of the isotopic signature beneath Costa Rica can be
constrained and its transport distance is known, minimum northwestward flow rates
can be estimated (63-190 mm yr(-1)) and are comparable to the magnitude of
subducting Cocos plate motion (approximately 85 mm yr(-1)). Trench-parallel flow 
needs to be taken into account in models evaluating thermal and chemical
structure and melt generation in subduction zones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06550 
PMID: 18223639 


819. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):1013-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06666.

A PtdIns4,5P2-regulated nuclear poly(A) polymerase controls expression of select 
mRNAs.

Mellman DL(1), Gonzales ML, Song C, Barlow CA, Wang P, Kendziorski C, Anderson
RA.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology, University of Wisconsin
Medical School, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1300 University Avenue, Madison,
Wisconsin 53706, USA.

Phosphoinositides are a family of lipid signalling molecules that regulate many
cellular functions in eukaryotes. Phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate
(PtdIns4,5P2), the central component in the phosphoinositide signalling
circuitry, is generated primarily by type I phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate
5-kinases (PIPKIalpha, PIPKIbeta and PIPKIgamma). In addition to functions in the
cytosol, phosphoinositides are present in the nucleus, where they modulate
several functions; however, the mechanism by which they directly regulate nuclear
functions remains unknown. PIPKIs regulate cellular functions through
interactions with protein partners, often PtdIns4,5P2 effectors, that target
PIPKIs to discrete subcellular compartments, resulting in the spatial and
temporal generation of PtdIns4,5P2 required for the regulation of specific
signalling pathways. Therefore, to determine roles for nuclear PtdIns4,5P2 we set
out to identify proteins that interacted with the nuclear PIPK, PIPKIalpha. Here 
we show that PIPKIalpha co-localizes at nuclear speckles and interacts with a
newly identified non-canonical poly(A) polymerase, which we have termed Star-PAP 
(nuclear speckle targeted PIPKIalpha regulated-poly(A) polymerase) and that the
activity of Star-PAP can be specifically regulated by PtdIns4,5P2. Star-PAP and
PIPKIalpha function together in a complex to control the expression of select
mRNAs, including the transcript encoding the key cytoprotective enzyme haem
oxygenase-1 (refs 8, 9) and other oxidative stress response genes by regulating
the 3'-end formation of their mRNAs. Taken together, the data demonstrate a model
by which phosphoinositide signalling works in tandem with complement pathways to 
regulate the activity of Star-PAP and the subsequent biosynthesis of its target
mRNA. The results reveal a mechanism for the integration of nuclear
phosphoinositide signals and a method for regulating gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06666 
PMID: 18288197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):1008-12. doi: 10.1038/nature06613.

HIF-independent regulation of VEGF and angiogenesis by the transcriptional
coactivator PGC-1alpha.

Arany Z(1), Foo SY, Ma Y, Ruas JL, Bommi-Reddy A, Girnun G, Cooper M, Laznik D,
Chinsomboon J, Rangwala SM, Baek KH, Rosenzweig A, Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. zarany1@partners.org

Ischaemia of the heart, brain and limbs is a leading cause of morbidity and
mortality worldwide. Hypoxia stimulates the secretion of vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF) and other angiogenic factors, leading to neovascularization 
and protection against ischaemic injury. Here we show that the transcriptional
coactivator PGC-1alpha (peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor-gamma
coactivator-1alpha), a potent metabolic sensor and regulator, is induced by a
lack of nutrients and oxygen, and PGC-1alpha powerfully regulates VEGF expression
and angiogenesis in cultured muscle cells and skeletal muscle in vivo.
PGC-1alpha-/- mice show a striking failure to reconstitute blood flow in a normal
manner to the limb after an ischaemic insult, whereas transgenic expression of
PGC-1alpha in skeletal muscle is protective. Surprisingly, the induction of VEGF 
by PGC-1alpha does not involve the canonical hypoxia response pathway and hypoxia
inducible factor (HIF). Instead, PGC-1alpha coactivates the orphan nuclear
receptor ERR-alpha (oestrogen-related receptor-alpha) on conserved binding sites 
found in the promoter and in a cluster within the first intron of the VEGF gene. 
Thus, PGC-1alpha and ERR-alpha, major regulators of mitochondrial function in
response to exercise and other stimuli, also control a novel angiogenic pathway
that delivers needed oxygen and substrates. PGC-1alpha may provide a novel
therapeutic target for treating ischaemic diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06613 
PMID: 18288196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):998-1003. doi: 10.1038/nature06742.

Genotype, haplotype and copy-number variation in worldwide human populations.

Jakobsson M(1), Scholz SW, Scheet P, Gibbs JR, VanLiere JM, Fung HC, Szpiech ZA, 
Degnan JH, Wang K, Guerreiro R, Bras JM, Schymick JC, Hernandez DG, Traynor BJ,
Simon-Sanchez J, Matarin M, Britton A, van de Leemput J, Rafferty I, Bucan M,
Cann HM, Hardy JA, Rosenberg NA, Singleton AB.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Computational Medicine and Biology, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Genome-wide patterns of variation across individuals provide a powerful source of
data for uncovering the history of migration, range expansion, and adaptation of 
the human species. However, high-resolution surveys of variation in genotype,
haplotype and copy number have generally focused on a small number of population 
groups. Here we report the analysis of high-quality genotypes at 525,910
single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 396 copy-number-variable loci in a
worldwide sample of 29 populations. Analysis of SNP genotypes yields strongly
supported fine-scale inferences about population structure. Increasing linkage
disequilibrium is observed with increasing geographic distance from Africa, as
expected under a serial founder effect for the out-of-Africa spread of human
populations. New approaches for haplotype analysis produce inferences about
population structure that complement results based on unphased SNPs. Despite a
difference from SNPs in the frequency spectrum of the copy-number variants (CNVs)
detected--including a comparatively large number of CNVs in previously unexamined
populations from Oceania and the Americas--the global distribution of CNVs
largely accords with population structure analyses for SNP data sets of similar
size. Our results produce new inferences about inter-population variation,
support the utility of CNVs in human population-genetic research, and serve as a 
genomic resource for human-genetic studies in diverse worldwide populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06742 
PMID: 18288195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):994-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06611.

Proportionally more deleterious genetic variation in European than in African
populations.

Lohmueller KE(1), Indap AR, Schmidt S, Boyko AR, Hernandez RD, Hubisz MJ, Sninsky
JJ, White TJ, Sunyaev SR, Nielsen R, Clark AG, Bustamante CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Quantifying the number of deleterious mutations per diploid human genome is of
crucial concern to both evolutionary and medical geneticists. Here we combine
genome-wide polymorphism data from PCR-based exon resequencing, comparative
genomic data across mammalian species, and protein structure predictions to
estimate the number of functionally consequential single-nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) carried by each of 15 African American (AA) and 20 European American (EA) 
individuals. We find that AAs show significantly higher levels of nucleotide
heterozygosity than do EAs for all categories of functional SNPs considered,
including synonymous, non-synonymous, predicted 'benign', predicted 'possibly
damaging' and predicted 'probably damaging' SNPs. This result is wholly
consistent with previous work showing higher overall levels of nucleotide
variation in African populations than in Europeans. EA individuals, in contrast, 
have significantly more genotypes homozygous for the derived allele at synonymous
and non-synonymous SNPs and for the damaging allele at 'probably damaging' SNPs
than AAs do. For SNPs segregating only in one population or the other, the
proportion of non-synonymous SNPs is significantly higher in the EA sample
(55.4%) than in the AA sample (47.0%; P < 2.3 x 10(-37)). We observe a similar
proportional excess of SNPs that are inferred to be 'probably damaging' (15.9% in
EA; 12.1% in AA; P < 3.3 x 10(-11)). Using extensive simulations, we show that
this excess proportion of segregating damaging alleles in Europeans is probably a
consequence of a bottleneck that Europeans experienced at about the time of the
migration out of Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06611 
PMCID: PMC2923434
PMID: 18288194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):990-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06536.

Global trends in emerging infectious diseases.

Jones KE(1), Patel NG, Levy MA, Storeygard A, Balk D, Gittleman JL, Daszak P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regents Park, London NW1
4RY, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):898-9.
    Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):282.

Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) are a significant burden on global economies 
and public health. Their emergence is thought to be driven largely by
socio-economic, environmental and ecological factors, but no comparative study
has explicitly analysed these linkages to understand global temporal and spatial 
patterns of EIDs. Here we analyse a database of 335 EID 'events' (origins of
EIDs) between 1940 and 2004, and demonstrate non-random global patterns. EID
events have risen significantly over time after controlling for reporting bias,
with their peak incidence (in the 1980s) concomitant with the HIV pandemic. EID
events are dominated by zoonoses (60.3% of EIDs): the majority of these (71.8%)
originate in wildlife (for example, severe acute respiratory virus, Ebola virus),
and are increasing significantly over time. We find that 54.3% of EID events are 
caused by bacteria or rickettsia, reflecting a large number of drug-resistant
microbes in our database. Our results confirm that EID origins are significantly 
correlated with socio-economic, environmental and ecological factors, and provide
a basis for identifying regions where new EIDs are most likely to originate
(emerging disease 'hotspots'). They also reveal a substantial risk of wildlife
zoonotic and vector-borne EIDs originating at lower latitudes where reporting
effort is low. We conclude that global resources to counter disease emergence are
poorly allocated, with the majority of the scientific and surveillance effort
focused on countries from where the next important EID is least likely to
originate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06536 
PMCID: PMC5960580
PMID: 18288193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):981-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06691.

Evidence of lower-mantle slab penetration phases in plate motions.

Goes S(1), Capitanio FA, Morra G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science and Engineering, Imperial College London, London
SW7 2AZ, UK. s.goes@imperial.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):899-900.

It is well accepted that subduction of the cold lithosphere is a crucial
component of the Earth's plate tectonic style of mantle convection. But whether
and how subducting plates penetrate into the lower mantle is the subject of
continuing debate, which has substantial implications for the chemical and
thermal evolution of the mantle. Here we identify lower-mantle slab penetration
events by comparing Cenozoic plate motions at the Earth's main subduction zones
with motions predicted by fully dynamic models of the upper-mantle phase of
subduction, driven solely by downgoing plate density. Whereas subduction of
older, intrinsically denser, lithosphere occurs at rates consistent with the
model, younger lithosphere (of ages less than about 60 Myr) often subducts up to 
two times faster, while trench motions are very low. We conclude that the most
likely explanation is that older lithosphere, subducting under significant trench
retreat, tends to lie down flat above the transition to the high-viscosity lower 
mantle, whereas younger lithosphere, which is less able to drive trench retreat
and deforms more readily, buckles and thickens. Slab thickening enhances buoyancy
(volume times density) and thereby Stokes sinking velocity, thus facilitating
fast lower-mantle penetration. Such an interpretation is consistent with seismic 
images of the distribution of subducted material in upper and lower mantle. Thus 
we identify a direct expression of time-dependent flow between the upper and
lower mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06691 
PMID: 18288192 


825. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):977-80. doi: 10.1038/nature06669.

Self-healing and thermoreversible rubber from supramolecular assembly.

Cordier P(1), Tournilhac F, Soulié-Ziakovic C, Leibler L.

Author information: 
(1)Matière Molle et Chimie, UMR 7167 CNRS-ESPCI, Ecole Supérieure de Physique et 
Chimie Industrielles, 10 rue Vauquelin, 75005 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):895-6.

Rubbers exhibit enormous extensibility up to several hundred per cent, compared
with a few per cent for ordinary solids, and have the ability to recover their
original shape and dimensions on release of stress. Rubber elasticity is a
property of macromolecules that are either covalently cross-linked or connected
in a network by physical associations such as small glassy or crystalline
domains, ionic aggregates or multiple hydrogen bonds. Covalent cross-links or
strong physical associations prevent flow and creep. Here we design and
synthesize molecules that associate together to form both chains and cross-links 
via hydrogen bonds. The system shows recoverable extensibility up to several
hundred per cent and little creep under load. In striking contrast to
conventional cross-linked or thermoreversible rubbers made of macromolecules,
these systems, when broken or cut, can be simply repaired by bringing together
fractured surfaces to self-heal at room temperature. Repaired samples recuperate 
their enormous extensibility. The process of breaking and healing can be repeated
many times. These materials can be easily processed, re-used and recycled. Their 
unique self-repairing properties, the simplicity of their synthesis, their
availability from renewable resources and the low cost of raw ingredients (fatty 
acids and urea) bode well for future applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06669 
PMID: 18288191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):973-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06615.

Martian stepped-delta formation by rapid water release.

Kraal ER(1), van Dijk M, Postma G, Kleinhans MG.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Geosciences, Utrecht University, Postbus 80115, 3508 TC, Utrecht,
The Netherlands. ekraal@vt.edu

Deltas and alluvial fans preserved on the surface of Mars provide an important
record of surface water flow. Understanding how surface water flow could have
produced the observed morphology is fundamental to understanding the history of
water on Mars. To date, morphological studies have provided only minimum time
estimates for the longevity of martian hydrologic events, which range from
decades to millions of years. Here we use sand flume studies to show that the
distinct morphology of martian stepped (terraced) deltas could only have
originated from a single basin-filling event on a timescale of tens of years.
Stepped deltas therefore provide a minimum and maximum constraint on the duration
and magnitude of some surface flows on Mars. We estimate that the amount of water
required to fill the basin and deposit the delta is comparable to the amount of
water discharged by large terrestrial rivers, such as the Mississippi. The
massive discharge, short timescale, and the associated short canyon lengths
favour the hypothesis that stepped fans are terraced delta deposits draped over
an alluvial fan and formed by water released suddenly from subsurface storage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06615 
PMID: 18288190 


827. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):970-2. doi: 10.1038/nature06600.

Energetic neutral atoms as the explanation for the high-velocity hydrogen around 
HD 209458b.

Holmström M(1), Ekenbäck A, Selsis F, Penz T, Lammer H, Wurz P.

Author information: 
(1)Swedish Institute of Space Physics, PO Box 812, SE-98128 Kiruna, Sweden.
matsh@irf.se

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Nov 13;456(7219):E1; discussion E1-2.

Absorption in the stellar Lyman-alpha (Lyalpha) line observed during the transit 
of the extrasolar planet HD 209458b in front of its host star reveals
high-velocity atomic hydrogen at great distances from the planet. This has been
interpreted as hydrogen atoms escaping from the planet's exosphere, possibly
undergoing hydrodynamic blow-off, and being accelerated by stellar radiation
pressure. Energetic neutral atoms around Solar System planets have been observed 
to form from charge exchange between solar wind protons and neutral hydrogen from
the planetary exospheres, however, and this process also should occur around
extrasolar planets. Here we show that the measured transit-associated Lyalpha
absorption can be explained by the interaction between the exosphere of HD
209458b and the stellar wind, and that radiation pressure alone cannot explain
the observations. As the stellar wind protons are the source of the observed
energetic neutral atoms, this provides a way of probing stellar wind conditions, 
and our model suggests a slow and hot stellar wind near HD 209458b at the time of
the observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06600 
PMID: 18288189 


828. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):964-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06668.

Phosphoinositide signalling links O-GlcNAc transferase to insulin resistance.

Yang X(1), Ongusaha PP, Miles PD, Havstad JC, Zhang F, So WV, Kudlow JE, Michell 
RH, Olefsky JM, Field SJ, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Gene Expression Laboratory, The Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Glucose flux through the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway leads to the
post-translational modification of cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins by O-linked
beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc). This tandem system serves as a nutrient
sensor to couple systemic metabolic status to cellular regulation of signal
transduction, transcription, and protein degradation. Here we show that O-GlcNAc 
transferase (OGT) harbours a previously unrecognized type of
phosphoinositide-binding domain. After induction with insulin,
phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate recruits OGT from the nucleus to the
plasma membrane, where the enzyme catalyses dynamic modification of the insulin
signalling pathway by O-GlcNAc. This results in the alteration in phosphorylation
of key signalling molecules and the attenuation of insulin signal transduction.
Hepatic overexpression of OGT impairs the expression of insulin-responsive genes 
and causes insulin resistance and dyslipidaemia. These findings identify a
molecular mechanism by which nutritional cues regulate insulin signalling through
O-GlcNAc, and underscore the contribution of this modification to the aetiology
of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06668 
PMID: 18288188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):959-63. doi: 10.1038/nature06635.

A photosynthetic alveolate closely related to apicomplexan parasites.

Moore RB(1), Oborník M, Janouskovec J, Chrudimský T, Vancová M, Green DH, Wright 
SW, Davies NW, Bolch CJ, Heimann K, Slapeta J, Hoegh-Guldberg O, Logsdon JM,
Carter DA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Molecular and Microbial Biosciences, University of Sydney,
Darlington, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Apr 17;452(7189):900.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):896-7.

Many parasitic Apicomplexa, such as Plasmodium falciparum, contain an unpigmented
chloroplast remnant termed the apicoplast, which is a target for malaria
treatment. However, no close relative of apicomplexans with a functional
photosynthetic plastid has yet been described. Here we describe a newly cultured 
organism that has ultrastructural features typical for alveolates, is
phylogenetically related to apicomplexans, and contains a photosynthetic plastid.
The plastid is surrounded by four membranes, is pigmented by chlorophyll a, and
uses the codon UGA to encode tryptophan in the psbA gene. This genetic feature
has been found only in coccidian apicoplasts and various mitochondria. The
UGA-Trp codon and phylogenies of plastid and nuclear ribosomal RNA genes indicate
that the organism is the closest known photosynthetic relative to apicomplexan
parasites and that its plastid shares an origin with the apicoplasts. The
discovery of this organism provides a powerful model with which to study the
evolution of parasitism in Apicomplexa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06635 
PMID: 18288187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):953-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06803.

Imaging of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

Sanz J(1), Fayad ZA.

Author information: 
(1)The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and Marie-Josee and
Henry R. Kravis Center for Cardiovascular Health, Mount Sinai School of Medicine,
One Gustave L. Levy Place, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by thickening of the walls of the arteries, a
process that occurs slowly and 'silently' over decades. This prolonged course of 
disease provides a window of opportunity for diagnosis before symptoms occur.
But, until recently, only advanced atherosclerotic disease could be observed.
Now, developments in imaging technology offer many enticing prospects, including 
detecting atherosclerosis early, grouping individuals by the probability that
they will develop symptoms of atherosclerosis, assessing the results of treatment
and improving the current understanding of the biology of atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06803 
PMID: 18288186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):949-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06802.

The search for new cardiovascular biomarkers.

Gerszten RE(1), Wang TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Cardiology Division, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA. rgerszten@partners.org

Despite considerable advances in the treatment of cardiovascular disease, it
remains the leading cause of death in developed countries. Assessment of classic 
cardiovascular risk factors--including high blood pressure, diabetes and
smoking--has a central role in disease prevention. However, many individuals with
coronary heart disease (a narrowing of the blood vessels that supply the heart)
have only one, or none, of the classic risk factors. Thus, new biomarkers are
needed to augment the information obtained from traditional indicators and to
illuminate disease mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06802 
PMID: 18288185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):943-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06801.

The developmental genetics of congenital heart disease.

Bruneau BG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, and Department of Pediatrics,
University of California San Francisco, 1650 Owens Street, San Francisco,
California 94158, USA. bbruneau@gladstone.ucsf.edu

Congenital heart disease is the leading cause of infant morbidity in the Western 
world, but only in the past ten years has its aetiology been understood. Recent
studies have uncovered the genetic basis for some common forms of the disease and
provide new insight into how the heart develops and how dysregulation of heart
development leads to disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06801 
PMID: 18288184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):937-42. doi: 10.1038/nature06800.

Stem-cell therapy for cardiac disease.

Segers VF(1), Lee RT.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Partners Research Facility, 65 Landsdowne Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Heart failure is the leading cause of death worldwide, and current therapies only
delay progression of the disease. Laboratory experiments and recent clinical
trials suggest that cell-based therapies can improve cardiac function, and the
implications of this for cardiac regeneration are causing great excitement.
Bone-marrow-derived progenitor cells and other progenitor cells can differentiate
into vascular cell types, restoring blood flow. More recently, resident cardiac
stem cells have been shown to differentiate into multiple cell types present in
the heart, including cardiac muscle cells, indicating that the heart is not
terminally differentiated. These new findings have stimulated optimism that the
progression of heart failure can be prevented or even reversed with cell-based
therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06800 
PMID: 18288183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):929-36. doi: 10.1038/nature06799.

A genetic framework for improving arrhythmia therapy.

Knollmann BC(1), Roden DM.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 1285 Medical Research Building IV,
Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.

Abnormalities in heart rhythm continue to cause high rates of illness and death. 
Better treatment could be provided by solving two main challenges: the early
identification of patients who are at risk, and the characterization of molecular
pathways that culminate in arrhythmias. By analysing mechanisms that increase
susceptibility to arrhythmia in individuals with genetic syndromes, it might be
possible to improve current therapies and to develop new ways to treat and
prevent common arrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06799 
PMID: 18288182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):919-28. doi: 10.1038/nature06798.

Tackling heart failure in the twenty-first century.

Mudd JO(1), Kass DA.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, 720 Rutland Avenue, Ross 835, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.

Heart failure, or congestive heart failure, is a condition in which the heart
cannot supply the body's tissues with enough blood. The result is a cascade of
changes that lead to severe fatigue, breathlessness and, ultimately, death. In
the past quarter century, much progress has been made in understanding the
molecular and cellular processes that contribute to heart failure, leading to the
development of effective therapies. Despite this, chronic heart failure remains a
major cause of illness and death. And because the condition becomes more common
with increasing age, the number of affected individuals is rising with the
rapidly ageing global population. New treatments that target disease mechanisms
at the cellular and whole-organ level are needed to halt and reverse the
devastating consequences of this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06798 
PMID: 18288181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):914-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06797.

Triggers, targets and treatments for thrombosis.

Mackman N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA. nmackman@med.unc.edu

Thrombosis--localized clotting of the blood--can occur in the arterial or the
venous circulation and has a major medical impact. Acute arterial thrombosis is
the proximal cause of most cases of myocardial infarction (heart attack) and of
about 80% of strokes, collectively the most common cause of death in the
developed world. Venous thromboembolism is the third leading cause of
cardiovascular-associated death. The pathogenic changes that occur in the blood
vessel wall and in the blood itself resulting in thrombosis are not fully
understood. Understanding these processes is crucial for developing safer and
more effective antithrombotic drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06797 
PMCID: PMC2848509
PMID: 18288180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):904-13. doi: 10.1038/nature06796.

Translating molecular discoveries into new therapies for atherosclerosis.

Rader DJ(1), Daugherty A.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Institute and Institute for Translational Medicine and
Therapeutics, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 654 BRBII/III, 421
Curie Boulevard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. rader@mail.med.upenn.edu

Atherosclerosis is characterized by the thickening of the arterial wall and is
the primary cause of coronary artery disease and cerebrovascular disease, two of 
the most common causes of illness and death worldwide. Clinical trials have
confirmed that certain lipoproteins and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system 
are important in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, and 
that interventions targeted towards these are beneficial. Furthermore, efforts to
understand how risk factors such as high blood pressure, dysregulated blood
lipids and diabetes contribute to atherosclerotic disease, as well as to
understand the molecular pathogenesis of atherosclerotic plaques, are leading to 
new targets for therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06796 
PMID: 18288179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):E5; discussion E6. doi: 10.1038/nature06576.

Is recent major hurricane activity normal?

Neu U(1).

Author information: 
(1)ProClim, Swiss Academy of Sciences, Schwarztorstrasse 9, CH-3007 Bern,
Switzerland. neu@scnat.ch

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Jun 7;447(7145):698-701.

The anomaly of the recent increase in Atlantic major hurricane activity (MHA) is 
controversial. From a reconstruction of past MHA, Nyberg et al. conclude that the
present activity is not unusual by comparison with that of the past 270 years.
However, here I estimate the uncertainty of average MHA in the hurricane record
before 1945 and show that the reconstruction of Nyberg et al. differs strongly
from that record, and probably overestimates past MHA. Owing to this and further 
reasons, I question whether their reconstruction provides an accurate basis for
conclusions about past MHA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06576 
PMID: 18288135 


839. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):1018-21. doi: 10.1038/nature06609. Epub 2008 Feb 6.

Formation and branch migration of Holliday junctions mediated by eukaryotic
recombinases.

Murayama Y(1), Kurokawa Y, Mayanagi K, Iwasaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Cellular Biology, International Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences, Yokohama City University, 1-7-29, Suehirocho, Tsurumi,
Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan.

Holliday junctions (HJs) are key intermediates in homologous recombination and
are especially important for the production of crossover recombinants. Bacterial 
RecA family proteins promote the formation and branch migration of HJs in vitro
by catalysing a reciprocal DNA-strand exchange reaction between two duplex DNA
molecules, one of which contains a single-stranded DNA region that is essential
for initial nucleoprotein filament formation. This activity has been reported
only for prokaryotic RecA family recombinases, although eukaryotic homologues are
also essential for HJ production in vivo. Here we show that fission yeast (Rhp51)
and human (hRad51) RecA homologues promote duplex-duplex DNA-strand exchange in
vitro. As with RecA, a HJ is formed between the two duplex DNA molecules, and
reciprocal strand exchange proceeds through branch migration of the HJ. In
contrast to RecA, however, strand exchange mediated by eukaryotic recombinases
proceeds in the 3'-->5' direction relative to the single-stranded DNA region of
the substrate DNA. The opposite polarity of Rhp51 makes it especially suitable
for the repair of DNA double-strand breaks, whose repair is initiated at the
processed ends of breaks that have protruding 3' termini.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06609 
PMID: 18256600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):1004-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06562. Epub 2008 Jan 30.

A role for adult TLX-positive neural stem cells in learning and behaviour.

Zhang CL(1), Zou Y, He W, Gage FH, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Neurogenesis persists in the adult brain and can be regulated by a plethora of
external stimuli, such as learning, memory, exercise, environment and stress.
Although newly generated neurons are able to migrate and preferentially
incorporate into the neural network, how these cells are molecularly regulated
and whether they are required for any normal brain function are unresolved
questions. The adult neural stem cell pool is composed of orphan nuclear receptor
TLX-positive cells. Here, using genetic approaches in mice, we demonstrate that
TLX (also called NR2E1) regulates adult neural stem cell proliferation in a
cell-autonomous manner by controlling a defined genetic network implicated in
cell proliferation and growth. Consequently, specific removal of TLX from the
adult mouse brain through inducible recombination results in a significant
reduction of stem cell proliferation and a marked decrement in spatial learning. 
In contrast, the resulting suppression of adult neurogenesis does not affect
contextual fear conditioning, locomotion or diurnal rhythmic activities,
indicating a more selective contribution of newly generated neurons to specific
cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06562 
PMID: 18235445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):985-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06517. Epub 2008 Jan 23.

A fundamental avian wing-stroke provides a new perspective on the evolution of
flight.

Dial KP(1), Jackson BE, Segre P.

Author information: 
(1)Flight Laboratory, Division of Biological Sciences, University of Montana, 32 
Campus Drive, Missoula, Montana 59812, USA. kdial@mso.umt.edu

The evolution of avian flight remains one of biology's major controversies, with 
a long history of functional interpretations of fossil forms given as evidence
for either an arboreal or cursorial origin of flight. Despite repeated emphasis
on the 'wing-stroke' as a necessary avenue of investigation for addressing the
evolution of flight, no empirical data exist on wing-stroke dynamics in an
experimental evolutionary context. Here we present the first comparison of
wing-stroke kinematics of the primary locomotor modes (descending flight and
incline flap-running) that lead to level-flapping flight in juvenile ground birds
throughout development. We offer results that are contrary both to popular
perception and inferences from other studies. Starting shortly after hatching and
continuing through adulthood, ground birds use a wing-stroke confined to a narrow
range of less than 20 degrees , when referenced to gravity, that directs
aerodynamic forces about 40 degrees above horizontal, permitting a 180 degrees
range in the direction of travel. Based on our results, we put forth an
ontogenetic-transitional wing hypothesis that posits that the incremental
adaptive stages leading to the evolution of avian flight correspond behaviourally
and morphologically to transitional stages observed in ontogenetic forms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06517 
PMID: 18216784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):846-50. doi: 10.1038/nature06546.

The structural basis of protein acetylation by the p300/CBP transcriptional
coactivator.

Liu X(1), Wang L, Zhao K, Thompson PR, Hwang Y, Marmorstein R, Cole PA.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Gene Expression and Regulation, The Wistar Institute, 3601 Spruce
Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

The transcriptional coactivator p300/CBP (CREBBP) is a histone acetyltransferase 
(HAT) that regulates gene expression by acetylating histones and other
transcription factors. Dysregulation of p300/CBP HAT activity contributes to
various diseases including cancer. Sequence alignments, enzymology experiments
and inhibitor studies on p300/CBP have led to contradictory results about its
catalytic mechanism and its structural relation to the Gcn5/PCAF and MYST HATs.
Here we describe a high-resolution X-ray crystal structure of a semi-synthetic
heterodimeric p300 HAT domain in complex with a bi-substrate inhibitor, Lys-CoA. 
This structure shows that p300/CBP is a distant cousin of other structurally
characterized HATs, but reveals several novel features that explain the broad
substrate specificity and preference for nearby basic residues. Based on this
structure and accompanying biochemical data, we propose that p300/CBP uses an
unusual 'hit-and-run' (Theorell-Chance) catalytic mechanism that is distinct from
other characterized HATs. Several disease-associated mutations can also be
readily accounted for by the p300 HAT structure. These studies pave the way for
new epigenetic therapies involving modulation of p300/CBP HAT activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06546 
PMID: 18273021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):841-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06547.

Two levels of protection for the B cell genome during somatic hypermutation.

Liu M(1), Duke JL, Richter DJ, Vinuesa CG, Goodnow CC, Kleinstein SH, Schatz DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA.

Somatic hypermutation introduces point mutations into immunoglobulin genes in
germinal centre B cells during an immune response. The reaction is initiated by
cytosine deamination by the activation-induced deaminase (AID) and completed by
error-prone processing of the resulting uracils by mismatch and base excision
repair factors. Somatic hypermutation represents a threat to genome integrity and
it is not known how the B cell genome is protected from the mutagenic effects of 
somatic hypermutation nor how often these protective mechanisms fail. Here we
show, by extensive sequencing of murine B cell genes, that the genome is
protected by two distinct mechanisms: selective targeting of AID and
gene-specific, high-fidelity repair of AID-generated uracils. Numerous genes
linked to B cell tumorigenesis, including Myc, Pim1, Pax5, Ocab (also called
Pou2af1), H2afx, Rhoh and Ebf1, are deaminated by AID but escape acquisition of
most mutations through the combined action of mismatch and base excision repair. 
However, approximately 25% of expressed genes analysed were not fully protected
by either mechanism and accumulated mutations in germinal centre B cells. Our
results demonstrate that AID acts broadly on the genome, with the ultimate
distribution of mutations determined by a balance between high-fidelity and
error-prone DNA repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06547 
PMID: 18273020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):835-40. doi: 10.1038/nature06545.

Co-option of a default secretory pathway for plant immune responses.

Kwon C(1), Neu C, Pajonk S, Yun HS, Lipka U, Humphry M, Bau S, Straus M,
Kwaaitaal M, Rampelt H, El Kasmi F, Jürgens G, Parker J, Panstruga R, Lipka V,
Schulze-Lefert P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Microbe Interactions, Max-Planck-Institut für
Züchtungsforschung, Carl-von-Linné-Weg 10, D-50829 Köln, Germany.

Cell-autonomous immunity is widespread in plant-fungus interactions and
terminates fungal pathogenesis either at the cell surface or after pathogen
entry. Although post-invasive resistance responses typically coincide with a
self-contained cell death of plant cells undergoing attack by parasites, these
cells survive pre-invasive defence. Mutational analysis in Arabidopsis identified
PEN1 syntaxin as one component of two pre-invasive resistance pathways against
ascomycete powdery mildew fungi. Here we show that plasma-membrane-resident PEN1 
promiscuously forms SDS-resistant soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor
attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes together with the SNAP33 adaptor
and a subset of vesicle-associated membrane proteins (VAMPs). PEN1-dependent
disease resistance acts in vivo mainly through two functionally redundant VAMP72 
subfamily members, VAMP721 and VAMP722. Unexpectedly, the same two VAMP proteins 
also operate redundantly in a default secretory pathway, suggesting dual
functions in separate biological processes owing to evolutionary co-option of the
default pathway for plant immunity. The disease resistance function of the
secretory PEN1-SNAP33-VAMP721/722 complex and the pathogen-induced subcellular
dynamics of its components are mechanistically reminiscent of immunological
synapse formation in vertebrates, enabling execution of immune responses through 
focal secretion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06545 
PMID: 18273019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):826-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06618.

Removal of phospho-head groups of membrane lipids immobilizes voltage sensors of 
K+ channels.

Xu Y(1), Ramu Y, Lu Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Pennsylvania, 3700 Hamilton Walk,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

A fundamental question about the gating mechanism of voltage-activated K+ (Kv)
channels is how five positively charged voltage-sensing residues in the fourth
transmembrane segment are energetically stabilized, because they operate in a
low-dielectric cell membrane. The simplest solution would be to pair them with
negative charges. However, too few negatively charged channel residues are
positioned for such a role. Recent studies suggest that some of the channel's
positively charged residues are exposed to cell membrane phospholipids and
interact with their head groups. A key question nevertheless remains: is the
phospho-head of membrane lipids necessary for the proper function of the voltage 
sensor itself? Here we show that a given type of Kv channel may interact with
several species of phospholipid and that enzymatic removal of their phospho-head 
creates an insuperable energy barrier for the positively charged voltage sensor
to move through the initial gating step(s), thus immobilizing it, and also raises
the energy barrier for the downstream step(s).

DOI: 10.1038/nature06618 
PMCID: PMC4026191
PMID: 18273018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):822-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06512.

Chaos in a long-term experiment with a plankton community.

Benincà E(1), Huisman J, Heerkloss R, Jöhnk KD, Branco P, Van Nes EH, Scheffer M,
Ellner SP.

Author information: 
(1)Aquatic Microbiology, Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics,
University of Amsterdam, Nieuwe Achtergracht 127, 1018 WS Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

Mathematical models predict that species interactions such as competition and
predation can generate chaos. However, experimental demonstrations of chaos in
ecology are scarce, and have been limited to simple laboratory systems with a
short duration and artificial species combinations. Here, we present the first
experimental demonstration of chaos in a long-term experiment with a complex food
web. Our food web was isolated from the Baltic Sea, and consisted of bacteria,
several phytoplankton species, herbivorous and predatory zooplankton species, and
detritivores. The food web was cultured in a laboratory mesocosm, and sampled
twice a week for more than 2,300 days. Despite constant external conditions, the 
species abundances showed striking fluctuations over several orders of magnitude.
These fluctuations displayed a variety of different periodicities, which could be
attributed to different species interactions in the food web. The population
dynamics were characterized by positive Lyapunov exponents of similar magnitude
for each species. Predictability was limited to a time horizon of 15-30 days,
only slightly longer than the local weather forecast. Hence, our results
demonstrate that species interactions in food webs can generate chaos. This
implies that stability is not required for the persistence of complex food webs, 
and that the long-term prediction of species abundances can be fundamentally
impossible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06512 
PMID: 18273017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):814-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06551.

Sound velocities of majorite garnet and the composition of the mantle transition 
region.

Irifune T(1), Higo Y, Inoue T, Kono Y, Ohfuji H, Funakoshi K.

Author information: 
(1)Geodynamics Research Center, Ehime University, Matsuyama 790-8577, Japan.
irifune@dpc.ehime-u.ac.jp

The composition of the mantle transition region, characterized by anomalous
seismic-wave velocity and density changes at depths of approximately 400 to 700
km, has remained controversial. Some have proposed that the mantle transition
region has an olivine-rich 'pyrolite' composition, whereas others have inferred
that it is characterized by pyroxene- and garnet-rich compositions ('piclogite'),
because the sound velocities in pyrolite estimated from laboratory data are
substantially higher than those seismologically observed. Although the velocities
of the olivine polymorphs at these pressures (wadsleyite and ringwoodite) have
been well documented, those of majorite (another significant high-pressure phase 
in the mantle transition region) with realistic mantle compositions have never
been measured. Here we use combined in situ X-ray and ultrasonic measurements
under the pressure and temperature conditions of the mantle transition region to 
show that majorite in a pyrolite composition has sound velocities substantially
lower than those of earlier estimates, owing to strong nonlinear decreases at
high temperature, particularly for shear-wave velocity. We found that pyrolite
yields seismic velocities more consistent with typical seismological models than 
those of piclogite in the upper to middle parts of the region, except for the
potentially larger velocity jumps in pyrolite relative to those observed at a
depth of 410 km. In contrast, both of these compositions lead to significantly
low shear-wave velocities in the lower part of the region, suggesting possible
subadiabatic temperatures or the existence of a layer of harzburgite-rich
material supplied by the subducted slabs stagnant at these depths.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06551 
PMID: 18273016 


848. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):809-13. doi: 10.1038/nature06601.

Microfibre-nanowire hybrid structure for energy scavenging.

Qin Y(1), Wang X, Wang ZL.

Author information: 
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0245, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):340.

A self-powering nanosystem that harvests its operating energy from the
environment is an attractive proposition for sensing, personal electronics and
defence technologies. This is in principle feasible for nanodevices owing to
their extremely low power consumption. Solar, thermal and mechanical (wind,
friction, body movement) energies are common and may be scavenged from the
environment, but the type of energy source to be chosen has to be decided on the 
basis of specific applications. Military sensing/surveillance node placement, for
example, may involve difficult-to-reach locations, may need to be hidden, and may
be in environments that are dusty, rainy, dark and/or in deep forest. In a moving
vehicle or aeroplane, harvesting energy from a rotating tyre or wind blowing on
the body is a possible choice to power wireless devices implanted in the surface 
of the vehicle. Nanowire nanogenerators built on hard substrates were
demonstrated for harvesting local mechanical energy produced by high-frequency
ultrasonic waves. To harvest the energy from vibration or disturbance originating
from footsteps, heartbeats, ambient noise and air flow, it is important to
explore innovative technologies that work at low frequencies (such as <10 Hz) and
that are based on flexible soft materials. Here we present a simple, low-cost
approach that converts low-frequency vibration/friction energy into electricity
using piezoelectric zinc oxide nanowires grown radially around textile fibres. By
entangling two fibres and brushing the nanowires rooted on them with respect to
each other, mechanical energy is converted into electricity owing to a coupled
piezoelectric-semiconductor process. This work establishes a methodology for
scavenging light-wind energy and body-movement energy using fabrics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06601 
PMID: 18273015 


849. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):805-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06507.

Giant magneto-elastic coupling in multiferroic hexagonal manganites.

Lee S(1), Pirogov A, Kang M, Jang KH, Yonemura M, Kamiyama T, Cheong SW, Gozzo F,
Shin N, Kimura H, Noda Y, Park JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, SungKyunKwan University, Suwon 440-746, Korea.

The motion of atoms in a solid always responds to cooling or heating in a way
that is consistent with the symmetry of the given space group of the solid to
which they belong. When the atoms move, the electronic structure of the solid
changes, leading to different physical properties. Therefore, the determination
of where atoms are and what atoms do is a cornerstone of modern solid-state
physics. However, experimental observations of atomic displacements measured as a
function of temperature are very rare, because those displacements are, in almost
all cases, exceedingly small. Here we show, using a combination of diffraction
techniques, that the hexagonal manganites RMnO3 (where R is a rare-earth element)
undergo an isostructural transition with exceptionally large atomic
displacements: two orders of magnitude larger than those seen in any other
magnetic material, resulting in an unusually strong magneto-elastic coupling. We 
follow the exact atomic displacements of all the atoms in the unit cell as a
function of temperature and find consistency with theoretical predictions based
on group theories. We argue that this gigantic magneto-elastic coupling in RMnO3 
holds the key to the recently observed magneto-electric phenomenon in this
intriguing class of materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06507 
PMID: 18273014 


850. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):802-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06602.

Discovery of the progenitor of the type Ia supernova 2007on.

Voss R(1), Nelemans G.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics, Giessenbachstrasse, 85748, 
Garching, Germany. rvoss@mpe.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):775-7.

Type Ia supernovae are exploding stars that are used to measure the accelerated
expansion of the Universe and are responsible for most of the iron ever produced.
Although there is general agreement that the exploding star is a white dwarf in a
binary system, the exact configuration and trigger of the explosion is unclear,
which could hamper their use for precision cosmology. Two families of progenitor 
models have been proposed. In the first, a white dwarf accretes material from a
companion until it exceeds the Chandrasekhar mass, collapses and explodes.
Alternatively, two white dwarfs merge, again causing catastrophic collapse and an
explosion. It has hitherto been impossible to determine if either model is
correct. Here we report the discovery of an object in pre-supernova archival
X-ray images at the position of the recent type Ia supernova (2007on) in the
elliptical galaxy NGC 1404. Deep optical images (also archival) show no sign of
this object. From this we conclude that the X-ray source is the progenitor of the
supernova, which favours the accretion model for this supernova, although the
host galaxy is older (6-9 Gyr) than the age at which the explosions are predicted
in the accreting models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06602 
PMID: 18273013 


851. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):789-95. doi: 10.1038/nature06543.

Dual control of nuclear EIN3 by bifurcate MAPK cascades in C2H4 signalling.

Yoo SD(1), Cho YH, Tena G, Xiong Y, Sheen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Department of
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
yoo@molbio.mgh.harvard.edu

A principal question in MAP kinase (MAPK/MPK) cascade signalling is how similar
components dictate different specificity in the information-processing
machineries from yeast to humans and plants. In Arabidopsis, how MPK3/6 modulates
distinct outputs in diverse signal transduction pathways remains elusive. By
combining systematic cellular and genetic screens, here we uncover a previously
unexpected MKK9-MPK3/MPK6 cascade promoting ethylene-insensitive 3
(EIN3)-mediated transcription in ethylene signalling. The mkk9 mutant exhibits a 
broad spectrum of moderate ethylene-insensitive phenotypes, and translocated MKK9
governs nuclear signalling downstream of receptors. Breaking a linear model and
conventional MAPK signalling, ethylene inactivates the negative regulator
constitutive triple response 1 (CTR1, a Raf-like MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK)) to 
activate the positive MKK9-MPK3/6 cascade. The bifurcate and antagonistic CTR1
and MKK9 pathways are both critical in determining ethylene-signalling
specificity through two MAPK phosphorylation sites with opposite effects on EIN3 
stability. The results suggest a new paradigm for linking intertwined MAPK
cascades to control quantitative responses and specificity in signalling
networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06543 
PMCID: PMC3488589
PMID: 18273012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):783-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06617.

The genome of the choanoflagellate Monosiga brevicollis and the origin of
metazoans.

King N(1), Westbrook MJ, Young SL, Kuo A, Abedin M, Chapman J, Fairclough S,
Hellsten U, Isogai Y, Letunic I, Marr M, Pincus D, Putnam N, Rokas A, Wright KJ, 
Zuzow R, Dirks W, Good M, Goodstein D, Lemons D, Li W, Lyons JB, Morris A,
Nichols S, Richter DJ, Salamov A, Sequencing JG, Bork P, Lim WA, Manning G,
Miller WT, McGinnis W, Shapiro H, Tjian R, Grigoriev IV, Rokhsar D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology and the Center for Integrative
Genomics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
nking@berkeley.edu

Choanoflagellates are the closest known relatives of metazoans. To discover
potential molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of metazoan
multicellularity, we sequenced and analysed the genome of the unicellular
choanoflagellate Monosiga brevicollis. The genome contains approximately 9,200
intron-rich genes, including a number that encode cell adhesion and signalling
protein domains that are otherwise restricted to metazoans. Here we show that the
physical linkages among protein domains often differ between M. brevicollis and
metazoans, suggesting that abundant domain shuffling followed the separation of
the choanoflagellate and metazoan lineages. The completion of the M. brevicollis 
genome allows us to reconstruct with increasing resolution the genomic changes
that accompanied the origin of metazoans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06617 
PMCID: PMC2562698
PMID: 18273011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):E1; discussion E3-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06578.

Nitrogen saturation and net ecosystem production.

De Schrijver A(1), Verheyen K, Mertens J, Staelens J, Wuyts K, Muys B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Forestry, Ghent University, Geraardsbergse Steenweg 267, 9090
Gontrode, Belgium. An.Deschrijver@Ugent.be

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Jun 14;447(7146):848-50.

Magnani et al. found that net carbon (C) sequestration of temperate and boreal
forests is clearly driven by nitrogen (N) deposition. From the positive
relationship between average net ecosystem production (NEP) and wet N deposition,
the authors further conclude that "no signs of N saturation were apparent" in the
studied forests and that this is "casting doubts on the risk of widespread
ecosystem nitrogen saturation". Nitrogen additions can clearly alter net
ecosystem production, but net ecosystem production cannot be used as an indicator
of N saturation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06578 
PMID: 18272969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):E1-3; discussion E3-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06579.

Ecologically implausible carbon response?

de Vries W(1), Solberg S, Dobbertin M, Sterba H, Laubhahn D, Reinds GJ, Nabuurs
GJ, Gundersen P, Sutton MA.

Author information: 
(1)Alterra, Wageningen University and Research Centre, PO Box 47, 6700 AA
Wageningen, The Netherlands. wim.devries@wur.nl

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Jun 14;447(7146):848-50.

Magnani et al. present a very strong correlation between mean lifetime net
ecosystem production (NEP, defined as the net rate of carbon (C) accumulation in 
ecosystems) and wet nitrogen (N) deposition. For their data in the range 4.9-9.8 
kg N ha(-1) yr(-1), on which the correlation largely depends, the response is
approximately 725 kg C per kg N in wet deposition. According to the authors, the 
maximum N wet deposition level of 9.8 kg N ha(-1) yr(-1) is equivalent to a total
deposition of 15 kg N ha(-1 )yr(-1), implying a net sequestration near 470 kg C
per kg N of total deposition. We question the ecological plausibility of the
relationship and show, from a multi-factor analysis of European forest
measurements, how interactions with site productivity and environment imply a
much smaller NEP response to N deposition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06579 
PMID: 18272968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):818-21. doi: 10.1038/nature06549.

Primitive Early Eocene bat from Wyoming and the evolution of flight and
echolocation.

Simmons NB(1), Seymour KL, Habersetzer J, Gunnell GF.

Author information: 
(1)American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, New
York, New York 10024, USA. simmons@amnh.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):774-5.
    Nature. 2016;537(7620):307.

Bats (Chiroptera) represent one of the largest and most diverse radiations of
mammals, accounting for one-fifth of extant species. Although recent studies
unambiguously support bat monophyly and consensus is rapidly emerging about
evolutionary relationships among extant lineages, the fossil record of bats
extends over 50 million years, and early evolution of the group remains poorly
understood. Here we describe a new bat from the Early Eocene Green River
Formation of Wyoming, USA, with features that are more primitive than seen in any
previously known bat. The evolutionary pathways that led to flapping flight and
echolocation in bats have been in dispute, and until now fossils have been of
limited use in documenting transitions involved in this marked change in
lifestyle. Phylogenetically informed comparisons of the new taxon with other bats
and non-flying mammals reveal that critical morphological and functional changes 
evolved incrementally. Forelimb anatomy indicates that the new bat was capable of
powered flight like other Eocene bats, but ear morphology suggests that it lacked
their echolocation abilities, supporting a 'flight first' hypothesis for
chiropteran evolution. The shape of the wings suggests that an undulating
gliding-fluttering flight style may be primitive for bats, and the presence of a 
long calcar indicates that a broad tail membrane evolved early in Chiroptera,
probably functioning as an additional airfoil rather than as a prey-capture
device. Limb proportions and retention of claws on all digits indicate that the
new bat may have been an agile climber that employed quadrupedal locomotion and
under-branch hanging behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06549 
PMID: 18270539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):830-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06529. Epub 2008 Jan 30.

A modular switch for spatial Ca2+ selectivity in the calmodulin regulation of CaV
channels.

Dick IE(1), Tadross MR, Liang H, Tay LH, Yang W, Yue DT.

Author information: 
(1)Calcium Signals Laboratory, Departments of Biomedical Engineering and
Neuroscience, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Ross Building,
Room 713, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Med. 2009 Jan;15(1):25-6.

Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent regulation of voltage-gated CaV1-2 Ca2+ channels shows 
extraordinary modes of spatial Ca2+ decoding and channel modulation, vital for
many biological functions. A single calmodulin (CaM) molecule associates
constitutively with the channel's carboxy-terminal tail, and Ca2+ binding to the 
C-terminal and N-terminal lobes of CaM can each induce distinct channel
regulations. As expected from close channel proximity, the C-lobe responds to the
roughly 100-microM Ca2+ pulses driven by the associated channel, a behaviour
defined as 'local Ca2+ selectivity'. Conversely, all previous observations have
indicated that the N-lobe somehow senses the far weaker signals from distant Ca2+
sources. This 'global Ca2+ selectivity' satisfies a general signalling
requirement, enabling a resident molecule to remotely sense cellular Ca2+
activity, which would otherwise be overshadowed by Ca2+ entry through the host
channel. Here we show that the spatial Ca2+ selectivity of N-lobe CaM regulation 
is not invariably global but can be switched by a novel Ca2+/CaM-binding site
within the amino terminus of channels (NSCaTE, for N-terminal spatial Ca2+
transforming element). Native CaV2.2 channels lack this element and show N-lobe
regulation with a global selectivity. On the introduction of NSCaTE into these
channels, spatial Ca2+ selectivity transforms from a global to local profile.
Given this effect, we examined CaV1.2/CaV1.3 channels, which naturally contain
NSCaTE, and found that their N-lobe selectivity is indeed local. Disruption of
this element produces a global selectivity, confirming the native function of
NSCaTE. Thus, differences in spatial selectivity between advanced CaV1 and CaV2
channel isoforms are explained by the presence or absence of NSCaTE. Beyond
functional effects, the position of NSCaTE on the channel's amino terminus
indicates that CaM can bridge the amino terminus and carboxy terminus of
channels. Finally, the modularity of NSCaTE offers practical means for
understanding the basis of global Ca2+ selectivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06529 
PMCID: PMC4262256
PMID: 18235447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):851-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06530. Epub 2008 Jan 30.

The X-ray crystal structure of RNA polymerase from Archaea.

Hirata A(1), Klein BJ, Murakami KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 13;452(7184):248.

Comment in
    Trends Microbiol. 2008 Jun;16(6):247-50.

The transcription apparatus in Archaea can be described as a simplified version
of its eukaryotic RNA polymerase (RNAP) II counterpart, comprising an RNAPII-like
enzyme as well as two general transcription factors, the TATA-binding protein
(TBP) and the eukaryotic TFIIB orthologue TFB. It has been widely understood that
precise comparisons of cellular RNAP crystal structures could reveal structural
elements common to all enzymes and that these insights would be useful in
analysing components of each enzyme that enable it to perform domain-specific
gene expression. However, the structure of archaeal RNAP has been limited to
individual subunits. Here we report the first crystal structure of the archaeal
RNAP from Sulfolobus solfataricus at 3.4 A resolution, completing the suite of
multi-subunit RNAP structures from all three domains of life. We also report the 
high-resolution (at 1.76 A) crystal structure of the D/L subcomplex of archaeal
RNAP and provide the first experimental evidence of any RNAP possessing an
iron-sulphur (Fe-S) cluster, which may play a structural role in a key subunit of
RNAP assembly. The striking structural similarity between archaeal RNAP and
eukaryotic RNAPII highlights the simpler archaeal RNAP as an ideal model system
for dissecting the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06530 
PMCID: PMC2805805
PMID: 18235446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):796-801. doi: 10.1038/nature06634. Epub 2008 Jan
30.

Cohesin mediates transcriptional insulation by CCCTC-binding factor.

Wendt KS(1), Yoshida K, Itoh T, Bando M, Koch B, Schirghuber E, Tsutsumi S, Nagae
G, Ishihara K, Mishiro T, Yahata K, Imamoto F, Aburatani H, Nakao M, Imamoto N,
Maeshima K, Shirahige K, Peters JM.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, Dr. Bohr Gasse 7, 1030 Vienna,
Austria.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 May;13(5):282.
    Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):777-8.

Cohesin complexes mediate sister-chromatid cohesion in dividing cells but may
also contribute to gene regulation in postmitotic cells. How cohesin regulates
gene expression is not known. Here we describe cohesin-binding sites in the human
genome and show that most of these are associated with the CCCTC-binding factor
(CTCF), a zinc-finger protein required for transcriptional insulation. CTCF is
dispensable for cohesin loading onto DNA, but is needed to enrich cohesin at
specific binding sites. Cohesin enables CTCF to insulate promoters from distant
enhancers and controls transcription at the H19/IGF2 (insulin-like growth factor 
2) locus. This role of cohesin seems to be independent of its role in cohesion.
We propose that cohesin functions as a transcriptional insulator, and speculate
that subtle deficiencies in this function contribute to 'cohesinopathies' such as
Cornelia de Lange syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06634 
PMID: 18235444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):725-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06537.

TANK-binding kinase-1 delineates innate and adaptive immune responses to DNA
vaccines.

Ishii KJ(1), Kawagoe T, Koyama S, Matsui K, Kumar H, Kawai T, Uematsu S, Takeuchi
O, Takeshita F, Coban C, Akira S.

Author information: 
(1)Exploratory Research for Advanced Technology (ERATO), Japan Science and
Technology Agency (JST). kenishii@biken.osaka-u.ac.jp

Successful vaccines contain not only protective antigen(s) but also an adjuvant
component that triggers innate immune activation and is necessary for their
optimal immunogenicity. In the case of DNA vaccines, this consists of plasmid
DNA; however, the adjuvant element(s) as well as its intra- and inter-cellular
innate immune signalling pathway(s) leading to the encoded antigen-specific T-
and B-cell responses remain unclear. Here we demonstrate in vivo that
TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), a non-canonical IkappaB kinase, mediates the
adjuvant effect of DNA vaccines and is essential for its immunogenicity in mice. 
Plasmid-DNA-activated, TBK1-dependent signalling and the resultant type-I
interferon receptor-mediated signalling was required for induction of
antigen-specific B and T cells, which occurred even in the absence of innate
immune signalling through a well known CpG DNA sensor-Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9)
or Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZBP1, also known as DAI, which was recently reported 
as a potential B-form DNA sensor). Moreover, bone-marrow-transfer experiments
revealed that TBK1-mediated signalling in haematopoietic cells was critical for
the induction of antigen-specific B and CD4(+) T cells, whereas in
non-haematopoietic cells TBK1 was required for CD8(+) T-cell induction. These
data suggest that TBK1 is a key signalling molecule for DNA-vaccine-induced
immunogenicity, by differentially controlling DNA-activated innate immune
signalling through haematopoietic and non-haematopoietic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06537 
PMID: 18256672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):720-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06616.

Rapid appearance and local toxicity of amyloid-beta plaques in a mouse model of
Alzheimer's disease.

Meyer-Luehmann M(1), Spires-Jones TL, Prada C, Garcia-Alloza M, de Calignon A,
Rozkalne A, Koenigsknecht-Talboo J, Holtzman DM, Bacskai BJ, Hyman BT.

Author information: 
(1)Alzheimer's Disease Research Laboratory, Department of Neurology, MassGeneral 
Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):638-9.

Senile plaques accumulate over the course of decades in the brains of patients
with Alzheimer's disease. A fundamental tenet of the amyloid hypothesis of
Alzheimer's disease is that the deposition of amyloid-beta precedes and induces
the neuronal abnormalities that underlie dementia. This idea has been challenged,
however, by the suggestion that alterations in axonal trafficking and
morphological abnormalities precede and lead to senile plaques. The role of
microglia in accelerating or retarding these processes has been uncertain. To
investigate the temporal relation between plaque formation and the changes in
local neuritic architecture, we used longitudinal in vivo multiphoton microscopy 
to sequentially image young APPswe/PS1d9xYFP (B6C3-YFP) transgenic mice. Here we 
show that plaques form extraordinarily quickly, over 24 h. Within 1-2 days of a
new plaque's appearance, microglia are activated and recruited to the site.
Progressive neuritic changes ensue, leading to increasingly dysmorphic neurites
over the next days to weeks. These data establish plaques as a critical mediator 
of neuritic pathology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06616 
PMCID: PMC3264491
PMID: 18256671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):712-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06503.

Loss of plant species after chronic low-level nitrogen deposition to prairie
grasslands.

Clark CM(1), Tilman D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, 100 Ecology, 1987 Upper Buford 
Circle, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA. clark134@umn.edu

Rates of atmospheric deposition of biologically active nitrogen (N) are two to
seven times the pre-industrial rates in many developed nations because of
combustion of fossil fuels and agricultural fertilization. They are expected to
increase similarly over the next 50 years in industrializing nations of Asia and 
South America. Although the environmental impacts of high rates of nitrogen
addition have been well studied, this is not so for the lower, chronic rates that
characterize much of the globe. Here we present results of the first
multi-decadal experiment to examine the impacts of chronic, experimental nitrogen
addition as low as 10 kg N ha(-1) yr(-1) above ambient atmospheric nitrogen
deposition (6 kg N ha(-1) yr(-1) at our site). This total input rate is
comparable to terrestrial nitrogen deposition in many industrialized nations. We 
found that this chronic low-level nitrogen addition rate reduced plant species
numbers by 17% relative to controls receiving ambient N deposition. Moreover,
species numbers were reduced more per unit of added nitrogen at lower addition
rates, suggesting that chronic but low-level nitrogen deposition may have a
greater impact on diversity than previously thought. A second experiment showed
that a decade after cessation of nitrogen addition, relative plant species
number, although not species abundances, had recovered, demonstrating that some
effects of nitrogen addition are reversible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06503 
PMID: 18256670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):704-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06510.

Palaeotemperature trend for Precambrian life inferred from resurrected proteins.

Gaucher EA(1), Govindarajan S, Ganesh OK.

Author information: 
(1)Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution, Gainesville, Florida 32601, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):635-6.

Biosignatures and structures in the geological record indicate that microbial
life has inhabited Earth for the past 3.5 billion years or so. Research in the
physical sciences has been able to generate statements about the ancient
environment that hosted this life. These include the chemical compositions and
temperatures of the early ocean and atmosphere. Only recently have the natural
sciences been able to provide experimental results describing the environments of
ancient life. Our previous work with resurrected proteins indicated that ancient 
life lived in a hot environment. Here we expand the timescale of resurrected
proteins to provide a palaeotemperature trend of the environments that hosted
life from 3.5 to 0.5 billion years ago. The thermostability of more than 25
phylogenetically dispersed ancestral elongation factors suggest that the
environment supporting ancient life cooled progressively by 30 degrees C during
that period. Here we show that our results are robust to potential statistical
bias associated with the posterior distribution of inferred character states,
phylogenetic ambiguity, and uncertainties in the amino-acid equilibrium
frequencies used by evolutionary models. Our results are further supported by a
nearly identical cooling trend for the ancient ocean as inferred from the
deposition of oxygen isotopes. The convergence of results from natural and
physical sciences suggest that ancient life has continually adapted to changes in
environmental temperatures throughout its evolutionary history.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06510 
PMID: 18256669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):699-703. doi: 10.1038/nature06486.

Geological record of fluid flow and seismogenesis along an erosive subducting
plate boundary.

Vannucchi P(1), Remitti F, Bettelli G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze della Terra, Università di Firenze, Via La Pira, 4,
50121 Firenze, Italy. paola.vannucchi@unifi.it

Tectonic erosion of the overriding plate by the downgoing slab is believed to
occur at half the Earth's subduction zones. In situ investigation of the
geological processes at active erosive margins is extremely difficult owing to
the deep marine environment and the net loss of forearc crust to deeper levels in
the subduction zone. Until now, a fossil erosive subduction channel-the shear
zone marking the plate boundary-has not been recognized in the field, so that
seismic observations have provided the only information on plate boundary
processes at erosive margins. Here we show that a fossil erosive margin is
preserved in the Northern Apennines of Italy. It formed during the Tertiary
transition from oceanic subduction to continental collision, and was preserved by
the late deactivation and fossilization of the plate boundary. The outcropping
erosive subduction channel is approximately 500 m thick. It is representative of 
the first 5 km of depth, with its deeper portions reaching approximately 150
degrees C. The fossil zone records several surprises. Two décollements were
simultaneously active at the top and base of the subduction channel. Both deeper 
basal erosion and near-surface frontal erosion occurred. At shallow depths
extension was a key deformation component within this erosive convergent plate
boundary, and slip occurred without an observable fluid pressure cycle. At depths
greater than about 3 km a fluid cycle is clearly shown by the development of
veins and the alternation of fast (co-seismic) and slow (inter-seismic) slip. In 
the deepest portions of the outcropping subduction channel, extension is finally 
overprinted by compressional structures. In modern subduction zones the onset of 
seismic activity is believed to occur at approximately 150 degrees C, but in the 
fossil channel the onset occurred at cooler palaeo-temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06486 
PMID: 18256668 


864. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):694-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06596.

An updatable holographic three-dimensional display.

Tay S(1), Blanche PA, Voorakaranam R, Tunç AV, Lin W, Rokutanda S, Gu T, Flores
D, Wang P, Li G, St Hilaire P, Thomas J, Norwood RA, Yamamoto M, Peyghambarian N.

Author information: 
(1)College of Optical Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721,
USA. savas.tay@optics.arizona.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):636-7.

Holographic three-dimensional (3D) displays provide realistic images without the 
need for special eyewear, making them valuable tools for applications that
require situational awareness, such as medical, industrial and military imaging. 
Currently commercially available holographic 3D displays use photopolymers that
lack image-updating capability, resulting in restricted use and high cost.
Photorefractive polymers are dynamic holographic recording materials that allow
updating of images and have a wide range of applications, including optical
correlation, imaging through scattering media and optical communication. To be
suitable for 3D displays, photorefractive polymers need to have nearly 100%
diffraction efficiency, fast writing time, hours of image persistence, rapid
erasure, and large area-a combination of properties that has not been shown
before. Here, we report an updatable holographic 3D display based on
photorefractive polymers with such properties, capable of recording and
displaying new images every few minutes. This is the largest photorefractive 3D
display to date (4 x 4 inches in size); it can be recorded within a few minutes, 
viewed for several hours without the need for refreshing, and can be completely
erased and updated with new images when desired.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06596 
PMID: 18256667 


865. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):689-93. doi: 10.1038/nature06473.

Phase diagram of a two-component Fermi gas with resonant interactions.

Shin YI(1), Schunck CH, Schirotzek A, Ketterle W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, MIT-Harvard Center for Ultracold Atoms, and Research
Laboratory of Electronics, MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02139, USA.
yishin@mit.edu

The pairing of fermions lies at the heart of superconductivity and superfluidity.
The stability of these pairs determines the robustness of the superfluid state,
and the quest for superconductors with high critical temperature equates to a
search for systems with strong pairing mechanisms. Ultracold atomic Fermi gases
present a highly controllable model system for studying strongly interacting
fermions. Tunable interactions (through Feshbach collisional resonances) and the 
control of population or mass imbalance among the spin components provide unique 
opportunities to investigate the stability of pairing-and possibly to search for 
exotic forms of superfluidity. A major controversy has surrounded the stability
of superfluidity against an imbalance between the two spin components when the
fermions interact resonantly (that is, at unitarity). Here we present the phase
diagram of a spin-polarized Fermi gas of (6)Li atoms at unitarity, experimentally
mapping out the superfluid phases versus temperature and density imbalance. Using
tomographic techniques, we reveal spatial discontinuities in the spin
polarization; this is the signature of a first-order superfluid-to-normal phase
transition, and disappears at a tricritical point where the nature of the phase
transition changes from first-order to second-order. At zero temperature, there
is a quantum phase transition from a fully paired superfluid to a partially
polarized normal gas. These observations and the implementation of an in situ
ideal gas thermometer provide quantitative tests of theoretical calculations on
the stability of resonant superfluidity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06473 
PMID: 18256666 


866. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):685-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06491.

Slow dust in Enceladus' plume from condensation and wall collisions in tiger
stripe fractures.

Schmidt J(1), Brilliantov N, Spahn F, Kempf S.

Author information: 
(1)Nichtlineare Dynamik, Universität Potsdam, Am Neuen Palais 10, 14469 Potsdam, 
Germany. jschmidt@agnld.uni-potsdam.de

One of the spectacular discoveries of the Cassini spacecraft was the plume of
water vapour and icy particles (dust) originating near the south pole of Saturn's
moon Enceladus. The data imply considerably smaller velocities for the grains
than for the vapour, which has been difficult to understand. The gas and dust are
too dilute in the plume to interact, so the difference must arise below the
surface. Here we report a model for grain condensation and growth in channels of 
variable width. We show that repeated wall collisions of grains, with
re-acceleration by the gas, induce an effective friction, offering a natural
explanation for the reduced grain velocity. We derive particle speed and size
distributions that reproduce the observed and inferred properties of the dust
plume. The gas seems to form near the triple point of water; gas densities
corresponding to sublimation from ice at temperatures less than 260 K are
generally too low to support the measured particle fluxes. This in turn suggests 
liquid water below Enceladus' south pole.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06491 
PMID: 18256665 


867. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):679-84. doi: 10.1038/nature06509.

The dynamics of measles in sub-Saharan Africa.

Ferrari MJ(1), Grais RF, Bharti N, Conlan AJ, Bjørnstad ON, Wolfson LJ, Guerin
PJ, Djibo A, Grenfell BT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics, The Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA. mferrari@psu.edu

Although vaccination has almost eliminated measles in parts of the world, the
disease remains a major killer in some high birth rate countries of the Sahel. On
the basis of measles dynamics for industrialized countries, high birth rate
regions should experience regular annual epidemics. Here, however, we show that
measles epidemics in Niger are highly episodic, particularly in the capital
Niamey. Models demonstrate that this variability arises from powerful seasonality
in transmission-generating high amplitude epidemics-within the chaotic domain of 
deterministic dynamics. In practice, this leads to frequent stochastic fadeouts, 
interspersed with irregular, large epidemics. A metapopulation model illustrates 
how increased vaccine coverage, but still below the local elimination threshold, 
could lead to increasingly variable major outbreaks in highly seasonally forced
contexts. Such erratic dynamics emphasize the importance both of control
strategies that address build-up of susceptible individuals and efforts to
mitigate the impact of large outbreaks when they occur.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06509 
PMID: 18256664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):671-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06552.

Towards a molecular understanding of shape selectivity.

Smit B(1), Maesen TL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Européen de Calcul Atomique Moléculaire (CECAM), Ecole Normale
Supérieure, 46 Allée d'Italie, 69364 Lyon Cedex 7, France.
berend-smit@berkeley.edu

Shape selectivity is a simple concept: the transformation of reactants into
products depends on how the processed molecules fit the active site of the
catalyst. Nature makes abundant use of this concept, in that enzymes usually
process only very few molecules, which fit their active sites. Industry has also 
exploited shape selectivity in zeolite catalysis for almost 50 years, yet our
mechanistic understanding remains rather limited. Here we review shape
selectivity in zeolite catalysis, and argue that a simple thermodynamic analysis 
of the molecules adsorbed inside the zeolite pores can explain which products
form and guide the identification of zeolite structures that are particularly
suitable for desired catalytic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06552 
PMID: 18256663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):708-11. doi: 10.1038/nature06513. Epub 2008 Jan 27.

Bacterial carbon processing by generalist species in the coastal ocean.

Mou X(1), Sun S, Edwards RA, Hodson RE, Moran MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marine Sciences, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602,
USA.

The assimilation and mineralization of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) by marine
bacterioplankton is a major process in the ocean carbon cycle. However, little
information exists on the specific metabolic functions of participating bacteria 
and on whether individual taxa specialize on particular components of the marine 
DOC pool. Here we use experimental metagenomics to show that coastal communities 
are populated by taxa capable of metabolizing a wide variety of organic carbon
compounds. Genomic DNA captured from bacterial community subsets metabolizing a
single model component of the DOC pool (either dimethylsulphoniopropionate or
vanillate) showed substantial overlap in gene composition as well as a diversity 
of carbon-processing capabilities beyond the selected phenotypes. Our direct
measure of niche breadth for bacterial functional assemblages indicates that, in 
accordance with ecological theory, heterogeneity in the composition and supply of
organic carbon to coastal oceans may favour generalist bacteria. In the important
interplay between microbial community structure and biogeochemical cycling,
coastal heterotrophic communities may be controlled less by transient changes in 
the carbon reservoir that they process and more by factors such as trophic
interactions and physical conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06513 
PMID: 18223640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):734-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06561. Epub 2008 Jan 23.

Cell cycle control of centromeric repeat transcription and heterochromatin
assembly.

Chen ES(1), Zhang K, Nicolas E, Cam HP, Zofall M, Grewal SI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2008 May 6;18(9):R380-2.

Heterochromatin in eukaryotic genomes regulates diverse chromosomal processes
including transcriptional silencing. However, in Schizosaccharomyces pombe RNA
polymerase II (RNAPII) transcription of centromeric repeats is essential for
RNA-interference-mediated heterochromatin assembly. Here we study heterochromatin
dynamics during the cell cycle and its effect on RNAPII transcription. We
describe a brief period during the S phase of the cell cycle in which RNAPII
preferentially transcribes centromeric repeats. This period is enforced by
heterochromatin, which restricts RNAPII accessibility at centromeric repeats for 
most of the cell cycle. RNAPII transcription during S phase is linked to loading 
of RNA interference and heterochromatin factors such as the Ago1 subunit of the
RITS complex and the Clr4 methyltransferase complex subunit Rik1 (ref. 7).
Moreover, Set2, an RNAPII-associated methyltransferase that methylates histone H3
lysine 36 at repeat loci during S phase, acts in a pathway parallel to Clr4 to
promote heterochromatin assembly. We also show that phosphorylation of histone H3
serine 10 alters heterochromatin during mitosis, correlating with recruitment of 
condensin that affects silencing of centromeric repeats. Our analyses suggest at 
least two distinct modes of heterochromatin targeting to centromeric repeats,
whereby RNAPII transcription of repeats and chromodomain proteins bound to
methylated histone H3 lysine 9 mediate recruitment of silencing factors.
Together, these processes probably facilitate heterochromatin maintenance through
successive cell divisions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06561 
PMID: 18216783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):716-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06516. Epub 2008 Jan 20.

The coming acceleration of global population ageing.

Lutz W(1), Sanderson W, Scherbov S.

Author information: 
(1)World Population Program, International Institute for Applied Systems
Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, A-2361 Laxenburg, Austria. lutz@iiasa.ac.at

The future paths of population ageing result from specific combinations of
declining fertility and increasing life expectancies in different parts of the
world. Here we measure the speed of population ageing by using conventional
measures and new ones that take changes in longevity into account for the world
as a whole and for 13 major regions. We report on future levels of indicators of 
ageing and the speed at which they change. We show how these depend on whether
changes in life expectancy are taken into account. We also show that the speed of
ageing is likely to increase over the coming decades and to decelerate in most
regions by mid-century. All our measures indicate a continuous ageing of the
world's population throughout the century. The median age of the world's
population increases from 26.6 years in 2000 to 37.3 years in 2050 and then to
45.6 years in 2100, when it is not adjusted for longevity increase. When
increases in life expectancy are taken into account, the adjusted median age
rises from 26.6 in 2000 to 31.1 in 2050 and only to 32.9 in 2100, slightly less
than what it was in the China region in 2005. There are large differences in the 
regional patterns of ageing. In North America, the median age adjusted for life
expectancy change falls throughout almost the entire century, whereas the
conventional median age increases significantly. Our assessment of trends in
ageing is based on new probabilistic population forecasts. The probability that
growth in the world's population will end during this century is 88%, somewhat
higher than previously assessed. After mid-century, lower rates of population
growth are likely to coincide with slower rates of ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06516 
PMID: 18204438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):730-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06498. Epub 2008 Jan 16.

Drosophila Pgc protein inhibits P-TEFb recruitment to chromatin in primordial
germ cells.

Hanyu-Nakamura K(1), Sonobe-Nojima H, Tanigawa A, Lasko P, Nakamura A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Germline Development, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology,
Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan.

Germ cells are the only cells that transmit genetic information to the next
generation, and they therefore must be prevented from differentiating
inappropriately into somatic cells. A common mechanism by which germline
progenitors are protected from differentiation-inducing signals is a transient
and global repression of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII)-dependent transcription. In
both Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans embryos, the repression of messenger
RNA transcription during germ cell specification correlates with an absence of
phosphorylation of Ser 2 residues in the carboxy-terminal domain of RNAPII
(hereafter called CTD), a critical modification for transcriptional elongation.
Here we show that, in Drosophila embryos, a small protein encoded by polar
granule component (pgc) is essential for repressing CTD Ser 2 phosphorylation in 
newly formed pole cells, the germline progenitors. Ectopic Pgc expression in
somatic cells is sufficient to repress CTD Ser 2 phosphorylation. Furthermore,
Pgc interacts, physically and genetically, with positive transcription elongation
factor b (P-TEFb), the CTD Ser 2 kinase complex, and prevents its recruitment to 
transcription sites. These results indicate that Pgc is a cell-type-specific
P-TEFb inhibitor that has a fundamental role in Drosophila germ cell
specification. In C. elegans embryos, PIE-1 protein segregates to germline
blastomeres, and is thought to repress mRNA transcription through interaction
with P-TEFb. Thus, inhibition of P-TEFb is probably a common mechanism during
germ cell specification in the disparate organisms C. elegans and Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06498 
PMCID: PMC2719856
PMID: 18200011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):596-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06528.

Structural basis for the function and inhibition of an influenza virus proton
channel.

Stouffer AL(1), Acharya R, Salom D, Levine AS, Di Costanzo L, Soto CS, Tereshko
V, Nanda V, Stayrook S, DeGrado WF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Mar 20;452(7185):380.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):532-3.

The M2 protein from influenza A virus is a pH-activated proton channel that
mediates acidification of the interior of viral particles entrapped in endosomes.
M2 is the target of the anti-influenza drugs amantadine and rimantadine;
recently, resistance to these drugs in humans, birds and pigs has reached more
than 90% (ref. 1). Here we describe the crystal structure of the
transmembrane-spanning region of the homotetrameric protein in the presence and
absence of the channel-blocking drug amantadine. pH-dependent structural changes 
occur near a set of conserved His and Trp residues that are involved in proton
gating. The drug-binding site is lined by residues that are mutated in
amantadine-resistant viruses. Binding of amantadine physically occludes the pore,
and might also perturb the pK(a) of the critical His residue. The structure
provides a starting point for solving the problem of resistance to M2-channel
blockers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06528 
PMCID: PMC3889492
PMID: 18235504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):591-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06531.

Structure and mechanism of the M2 proton channel of influenza A virus.

Schnell JR(1), Chou JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):532-3.

The integral membrane protein M2 of influenza virus forms pH-gated proton
channels in the viral lipid envelope. The low pH of an endosome activates the M2 
channel before haemagglutinin-mediated fusion. Conductance of protons acidifies
the viral interior and thereby facilitates dissociation of the matrix protein
from the viral nucleoproteins--a required process for unpacking of the viral
genome. In addition to its role in release of viral nucleoproteins, M2 in the
trans-Golgi network (TGN) membrane prevents premature conformational
rearrangement of newly synthesized haemagglutinin during transport to the cell
surface by equilibrating the pH of the TGN with that of the host cell cytoplasm. 
Inhibiting the proton conductance of M2 using the anti-viral drug amantadine or
rimantadine inhibits viral replication. Here we present the structure of the
tetrameric M2 channel in complex with rimantadine, determined by NMR. In the
closed state, four tightly packed transmembrane helices define a narrow channel, 
in which a 'tryptophan gate' is locked by intermolecular interactions with
aspartic acid. A carboxy-terminal, amphipathic helix oriented nearly
perpendicular to the transmembrane helix forms an inward-facing base. Lowering
the pH destabilizes the transmembrane helical packing and unlocks the gate,
admitting water to conduct protons, whereas the C-terminal base remains intact,
preventing dissociation of the tetramer. Rimantadine binds at four equivalent
sites near the gate on the lipid-facing side of the channel and stabilizes the
closed conformation of the pore. Drug-resistance mutations are predicted to
counter the effect of drug binding by either increasing the hydrophilicity of the
pore or weakening helix-helix packing, thus facilitating channel opening.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06531 
PMCID: PMC3108054
PMID: 18235503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):587-90. doi: 10.1038/nature06515.

Negative regulation of the deacetylase SIRT1 by DBC1.

Zhao W(1), Kruse JP, Tang Y, Jung SY, Qin J, Gu W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics, and Department of Pathology College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 1130 St Nicholas Avenue, New York, 
New York 10032, USA.

SIRT1 is an NAD-dependent deacetylase critically involved in stress responses,
cellular metabolism and, possibly, ageing. The tumour suppressor p53 represents
the first non-histone substrate functionally regulated by acetylation and
deacetylation; we and others previously found that SIRT1 promotes cell survival
by deacetylating p53 (refs 4-6). These results were further supported by the fact
that p53 hyperacetylation and increased radiation-induced apoptosis were observed
in Sirt1-deficient mice. Nevertheless, SIRT1-mediated deacetylase function is
also implicated in p53-independent pathways under different cellular contexts,
and its effects on transcriptional factors such as members of the FOXO family and
PGC-1alpha directly modulate metabolic responses. These studies validate the
importance of the deacetylase activity of SIRT1, but how SIRT1 activity is
regulated in vivo is not well understood. Here we show that DBC1 (deleted in
breast cancer 1) acts as a native inhibitor of SIRT1 in human cells.
DBC1-mediated repression of SIRT1 leads to increasing levels of p53 acetylation
and upregulation of p53-mediated function. In contrast, depletion of endogenous
DBC1 by RNA interference (RNAi) stimulates SIRT1-mediated deacetylation of p53
and inhibits p53-dependent apoptosis. Notably, these effects can be reversed in
cells by concomitant knockdown of endogenous SIRT1. Our study demonstrates that
DBC1 promotes p53-mediated apoptosis through specific inhibition of SIRT1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06515 
PMCID: PMC2866287
PMID: 18235502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):583-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06500.

DBC1 is a negative regulator of SIRT1.

Kim JE(1), Chen J, Lou Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

The NAD-dependent protein deacetylase Sir2 (silent information regulator 2)
regulates lifespan in several organisms. SIRT1, the mammalian orthologue of yeast
Sir2, participates in various cellular functions and possibly tumorigenesis.
Whereas the cellular functions of SIRT1 have been extensively investigated, less 
is known about the regulation of SIRT1 activity. Here we show that Deleted in
Breast Cancer-1 (DBC1), initially cloned from a region (8p21) homozygously
deleted in breast cancers, forms a stable complex with SIRT1. DBC1 directly
interacts with SIRT1 and inhibits SIRT1 activity in vitro and in vivo.
Downregulation of DBC1 expression potentiates SIRT1-dependent inhibition of
apoptosis induced by genotoxic stress. Our results shed new light on the
regulation of SIRT1 and have important implications in understanding the
molecular mechanism of ageing and cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06500 
PMID: 18235501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):578-82. doi: 10.1038/nature06504.

Macrophage migration inhibitory factor stimulates AMP-activated protein kinase in
the ischaemic heart.

Miller EJ(1), Li J, Leng L, McDonald C, Atsumi T, Bucala R, Young LH.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Medicine Section of the Department of Internal Medicine, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Understanding cellular response to environmental stress has broad implications
for human disease. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) orchestrates the
regulation of energy-generating and -consuming pathways, and protects the heart
against ischaemic injury and apoptosis. A role for circulating hormones such as
adiponectin and leptin in the activation of AMPK has received recent attention.
Whether local autocrine and paracrine factors within target organs such as the
heart modulate AMPK is unknown. Here we show that macrophage migration inhibitory
factor (MIF), an upstream regulator of inflammation, is released in the ischaemic
heart, where it stimulates AMPK activation through CD74, promotes glucose uptake 
and protects the heart during ischaemia-reperfusion injury. Germline deletion of 
the Mif gene impairs ischaemic AMPK signalling in the mouse heart. Human
fibroblasts with a low-activity MIF promoter polymorphism have diminished MIF
release and AMPK activation during hypoxia. Thus, MIF modulates the activation of
the cardioprotective AMPK pathway during ischaemia, functionally linking
inflammation and metabolism in the heart. We anticipate that genetic variation in
MIF expression may impact on the response of the human heart to ischaemia by the 
AMPK pathway, and that diagnostic MIF genotyping might predict risk in patients
with coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06504 
PMID: 18235500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):561-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06521.

A great earthquake doublet and seismic stress transfer cycle in the central Kuril
islands.

Ammon CJ(1), Kanamori H, Lay T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 440 Deike
Building, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Temporal variations of the frictional resistance on subduction-zone plate
boundary faults associated with the stick-slip cycle of large interplate
earthquakes are thought to modulate the stress regime and earthquake activity
within the subducting oceanic plate. Here we report on two great earthquakes that
occurred near the Kuril islands, which shed light on this process and demonstrate
the enhanced seismic hazard accompanying triggered faulting. On 15 November 2006,
an event of moment magnitude 8.3 ruptured the shallow-dipping plate boundary
along which the Pacific plate descends beneath the central Kuril arc. The thrust 
ruptured a seismic gap that previously had uncertain seismogenic potential,
although the earlier occurrence of outer-rise compressional events had suggested 
the presence of frictional resistance. Within minutes of this large
underthrusting event, intraplate extensional earthquakes commenced in the outer
rise region seaward of the Kuril trench, and on 13 January 2007, an event of
moment magnitude 8.1 ruptured a normal fault extending through the upper portion 
of the Pacific plate, producing one of the largest recorded shallow extensional
earthquakes. This energetic earthquake sequence demonstrates the stress transfer 
process within the subducting lithosphere, and the distinct rupture
characteristics of these great earthquakes illuminate differences in seismogenic 
properties and seismic hazard of such interplate and intraplate faults.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06521 
PMID: 18235499 


879. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):557-60. doi: 10.1038/nature06422.

Large contribution of sea surface warming to recent increase in Atlantic
hurricane activity.

Saunders MA(1), Lea AS.

Author information: 
(1)Benfield UCL Hazard Research Centre, Department of Space and Climate Physics, 
University College London, Holmbury St Mary, Dorking, Surrey RH5 6NT, UK.
mas@mssl.ucl.ac.uk

Atlantic hurricane activity has increased significantly since 1995 (refs 1-4),
but the underlying causes of this increase remain uncertain. It is widely thought
that rising Atlantic sea surface temperatures have had a role in this, but the
magnitude of this contribution is not known. Here we quantify this contribution
for storms that formed in the tropical North Atlantic, Caribbean Sea and Gulf of 
Mexico; these regions together account for most of the hurricanes that make
landfall in the United States. We show that a statistical model based on two
environmental variables--local sea surface temperature and an atmospheric wind
field--can replicate a large proportion of the variance in tropical Atlantic
hurricane frequency and activity between 1965 and 2005. We then remove the
influence of the atmospheric wind field to assess the contribution of sea surface
temperature. Our results indicate that the sensitivity of tropical Atlantic
hurricane activity to August-September sea surface temperature over the period we
consider is such that a 0.5 degrees C increase in sea surface temperature is
associated with a approximately 40% increase in hurricane frequency and activity.
The results also indicate that local sea surface warming was responsible for
approximately 40% of the increase in hurricane activity relative to the 1950-2000
average between 1996 and 2005. Our analysis does not identify whether warming
induced by greenhouse gases contributed to the increase in hurricane activity,
but the ability of climate models to reproduce the observed relationship between 
hurricanes and sea surface temperature will serve as a useful means of assessing 
whether they are likely to provide reliable projections of future changes in
Atlantic hurricane activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06422 
PMID: 18235498 


880. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):553-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06508.

DNA-programmable nanoparticle crystallization.

Park SY(1), Lytton-Jean AK, Lee B, Weigand S, Schatz GC, Mirkin CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and International Institute for Nanotechnology,
Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois 60208-3113, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):528-9.

It was first shown more than ten years ago that DNA oligonucleotides can be
attached to gold nanoparticles rationally to direct the formation of larger
assemblies. Since then, oligonucleotide-functionalized nanoparticles have been
developed into powerful diagnostic tools for nucleic acids and proteins, and into
intracellular probes and gene regulators. In contrast, the conceptually simple
yet powerful idea that functionalized nanoparticles might serve as basic building
blocks that can be rationally assembled through programmable base-pairing
interactions into highly ordered macroscopic materials remains poorly developed. 
So far, the approach has mainly resulted in polymerization, with modest control
over the placement of, the periodicity in, and the distance between particles
within the assembled material. That is, most of the materials obtained thus far
are best classified as amorphous polymers, although a few examples of colloidal
crystal formation exist. Here, we demonstrate that DNA can be used to control the
crystallization of nanoparticle-oligonucleotide conjugates to the extent that
different DNA sequences guide the assembly of the same type of inorganic
nanoparticle into different crystalline states. We show that the choice of DNA
sequences attached to the nanoparticle building blocks, the DNA linking molecules
and the absence or presence of a non-bonding single-base flexor can be adjusted
so that gold nanoparticles assemble into micrometre-sized face-centred-cubic or
body-centred-cubic crystal structures. Our findings thus clearly demonstrate that
synthetically programmable colloidal crystallization is possible, and that a
single-component system can be directed to form different structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06508 
PMID: 18235497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):549-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06560.

DNA-guided crystallization of colloidal nanoparticles.

Nykypanchuk D(1), Maye MM, van der Lelie D, Gang O.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Functional Nanomaterials, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton,
New York 11973, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):528-9.

Many nanometre-sized building blocks will readily assemble into macroscopic
structures. If the process is accompanied by effective control over the
interactions between the blocks and all entropic effects, then the resultant
structures will be ordered with a precision hard to achieve with other
fabrication methods. But it remains challenging to use self-assembly to design
systems comprised of different types of building blocks-to realize novel
magnetic, plasmonic and photonic metamaterials, for example. A conceptually
simple idea for overcoming this problem is the use of 'encodable' interactions
between building blocks; this can in principle be straightforwardly implemented
using biomolecules. Strategies that use DNA programmability to control the
placement of nanoparticles in one and two dimensions have indeed been
demonstrated. However, our theoretical understanding of how to extend this
approach to three dimensions is limited, and most experiments have yielded
amorphous aggregates and only occasionally crystallites of close-packed
micrometre-sized particles. Here, we report the formation of three-dimensional
crystalline assemblies of gold nanoparticles mediated by interactions between
complementary DNA molecules attached to the nanoparticles' surface. We find that 
the nanoparticle crystals form reversibly during heating and cooling cycles.
Moreover, the body-centred-cubic lattice structure is temperature-tuneable and
structurally open, with particles occupying only approximately 4% of the unit
cell volume. We expect that our DNA-mediated crystallization approach, and the
insight into DNA design requirements it has provided, will facilitate both the
creation of new classes of ordered multicomponent metamaterials and the
exploration of the phase behaviour of hybrid systems with addressable
interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06560 
PMID: 18235496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):545-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06459.

Origin of morphotropic phase boundaries in ferroelectrics.

Ahart M(1), Somayazulu M, Cohen RE, Ganesh P, Dera P, Mao HK, Hemley RJ, Ren Y,
Liermann P, Wu Z.

Author information: 
(1)Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, 5251 Broad Branch 
Road, Washington, DC 20015, USA.

A piezoelectric material is one that generates a voltage in response to a
mechanical strain (and vice versa). The most useful piezoelectric materials
display a transition region in their composition phase diagrams, known as a
morphotropic phase boundary, where the crystal structure changes abruptly and the
electromechanical properties are maximal. As a result, modern piezoelectric
materials for technological applications are usually complex, engineered, solid
solutions, which complicates their manufacture as well as introducing complexity 
in the study of the microscopic origins of their properties. Here we show that
even a pure compound, in this case lead titanate, can display a morphotropic
phase boundary under pressure. The results are consistent with first-principles
theoretical predictions, but show a richer phase diagram than anticipated;
moreover, the predicted electromechanical coupling at the transition is larger
than any known. Our results show that the high electromechanical coupling in
solid solutions with lead titanate is due to tuning of the high-pressure
morphotropic phase boundary in pure lead titanate to ambient pressure. We also
find that complex microstructures or compositions are not necessary to obtain
strong piezoelectricity. This opens the door to the possible discovery of
high-performance, pure-compound electromechanical materials, which could greatly 
decrease costs and expand the utility of piezoelectric materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06459 
PMID: 18235495 


883. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):541-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06555.

A test of the nature of cosmic acceleration using galaxy redshift distortions.

Guzzo L(1), Pierleoni M, Meneux B, Branchini E, Le Fèvre O, Marinoni C, Garilli
B, Blaizot J, De Lucia G, Pollo A, McCracken HJ, Bottini D, Le Brun V, Maccagni
D, Picat JP, Scaramella R, Scodeggio M, Tresse L, Vettolani G, Zanichelli A,
Adami C, Arnouts S, Bardelli S, Bolzonella M, Bongiorno A, Cappi A, Charlot S,
Ciliegi P, Contini T, Cucciati O, de la Torre S, Dolag K, Foucaud S, Franzetti P,
Gavignaud I, Ilbert O, Iovino A, Lamareille F, Marano B, Mazure A, Memeo P,
Merighi R, Moscardini L, Paltani S, Pellò R, Perez-Montero E, Pozzetti L,
Radovich M, Vergani D, Zamorani G, Zucca E.

Author information: 
(1)INAF-Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate, LC,
Italy. luigi.guzzo@brera.inaf.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):531-2.

Observations of distant supernovae indicate that the Universe is now in a phase
of accelerated expansion the physical cause of which is a mystery. Formally, this
requires the inclusion of a term acting as a negative pressure in the equations
of cosmic expansion, accounting for about 75 per cent of the total energy density
in the Universe. The simplest option for this 'dark energy' corresponds to a
'cosmological constant', perhaps related to the quantum vacuum energy. Physically
viable alternatives invoke either the presence of a scalar field with an evolving
equation of state, or extensions of general relativity involving higher-order
curvature terms or extra dimensions. Although they produce similar expansion
rates, different models predict measurable differences in the growth rate of
large-scale structure with cosmic time. A fingerprint of this growth is provided 
by coherent galaxy motions, which introduce a radial anisotropy in the clustering
pattern reconstructed by galaxy redshift surveys. Here we report a measurement of
this effect at a redshift of 0.8. Using a new survey of more than 10,000 faint
galaxies, we measure the anisotropy parameter beta = 0.70 +/- 0.26, which
corresponds to a growth rate of structure at that time of f = 0.91 +/- 0.36. This
is consistent with the standard cosmological-constant model with low matter
density and flat geometry, although the error bars are still too large to
distinguish among alternative origins for the accelerated expansion. The correct 
origin could be determined with a further factor-of-ten increase in the sampled
volume at similar redshift.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06555 
PMID: 18235494 


884. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):566-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06519. Epub 2008 Jan 20.

The adaptive significance of temperature-dependent sex determination in a
reptile.

Warner DA(1), Shine R.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales
2006, Australia. dwarner@iastate.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):527-8.

Understanding the mechanisms that determine an individual's sex remains a primary
challenge for evolutionary biology. Chromosome-based systems (genotypic sex
determination) that generate roughly equal numbers of sons and daughters accord
with theory, but the adaptive significance of environmental sex determination
(that is, when embryonic environmental conditions determine offspring sex, ESD)
is a major unsolved problem. Theoretical models predict that selection should
favour ESD over genotypic sex determination when the developmental environment
differentially influences male versus female fitness (that is, the Charnov-Bull
model), but empirical evidence for this hypothesis remains elusive in amniote
vertebrates--the clade in which ESD is most prevalent. Here we provide the first 
substantial empirical support for this model by showing that incubation
temperatures influence reproductive success of males differently than that of
females in a short-lived lizard (Amphibolurus muricatus, Agamidae) with
temperature-dependent sex determination. We incubated eggs at a variety of
temperatures, and de-confounded sex and incubation temperature by using hormonal 
manipulations to embryos. We then raised lizards in field enclosures and
quantified their lifetime reproductive success. Incubation temperature affected
reproductive success differently in males versus females in exactly the way
predicted by theory: the fitness of each sex was maximized by the incubation
temperature that produces that sex. Our results provide unequivocal empirical
support for the Charnov-Bull model for the adaptive significance of
temperature-dependent sex determination in amniote vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06519 
PMID: 18204437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):573-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06501. Epub 2008 Jan 16.

NLRX1 is a regulator of mitochondrial antiviral immunity.

Moore CB(1), Bergstralh DT, Duncan JA, Lei Y, Morrison TE, Zimmermann AG,
Accavitti-Loper MA, Madden VJ, Sun L, Ye Z, Lich JD, Heise MT, Chen Z, Ting JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.

The RIG-like helicase (RLH) family of intracellular receptors detect viral
nucleic acid and signal through the mitochondrial antiviral signalling adaptor
MAVS (also known as Cardif, VISA and IPS-1) during a viral infection. MAVS
activation leads to the rapid production of antiviral cytokines, including type 1
interferons. Although MAVS is vital to antiviral immunity, its regulation from
within the mitochondria remains unknown. Here we describe human NLRX1, a highly
conserved nucleotide-binding domain (NBD)- and leucine-rich-repeat
(LRR)-containing family member (known as NLR) that localizes to the mitochondrial
outer membrane and interacts with MAVS. Expression of NLRX1 results in the potent
inhibition of RLH- and MAVS-mediated interferon-beta promoter activity and in the
disruption of virus-induced RLH-MAVS interactions. Depletion of NLRX1 with small 
interference RNA promotes virus-induced type I interferon production and
decreases viral replication. This work identifies NLRX1 as a check against
mitochondrial antiviral responses and represents an intersection of three ancient
cellular processes: NLR signalling, intracellular virus detection and the use of 
mitochondria as a platform for anti-pathogen signalling. This represents a
conceptual advance, in that NLRX1 is a modulator of pathogen-associated molecular
pattern receptors rather than a receptor, and identifies a key therapeutic target
for enhancing antiviral responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06501 
PMID: 18200010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):569-72. doi: 10.1038/nature06535. Epub 2008 Jan 9.

Lethargus is a Caenorhabditis elegans sleep-like state.

Raizen DM(1), Zimmerman JE, Maycock MH, Ta UD, You YJ, Sundaram MV, Pack AI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sleep and Respiratory Neurobiology, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
raizen@mail.med.upenn.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Jun 12;453(7197):952.

There are fundamental similarities between sleep in mammals and quiescence in the
arthropod Drosophila melanogaster, suggesting that sleep-like states are
evolutionarily ancient. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans also has a quiescent 
behavioural state during a period called lethargus, which occurs before each of
the four moults. Like sleep, lethargus maintains a constant temporal relationship
with the expression of the C. elegans Period homologue LIN-42 (ref. 5). Here we
show that quiescence associated with lethargus has the additional sleep-like
properties of reversibility, reduced responsiveness and homeostasis. We identify 
the cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) gene egl-4 as a regulator of sleep-like
behaviour, and show that egl-4 functions in sensory neurons to promote the C.
elegans sleep-like state. Conserved effects on sleep-like behaviour of homologous
genes in C. elegans and Drosophila suggest a common genetic regulation of
sleep-like states in arthropods and nematodes. Our results indicate that C.
elegans is a suitable model system for the study of sleep regulation. The
association of this C. elegans sleep-like state with developmental changes that
occur with larval moults suggests that sleep may have evolved to allow for
developmental changes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06535 
PMID: 18185515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Nature. 2008 Jan 31;451(7178):535-40. doi: 10.1038/nature06496. Epub 2008 Jan 2.

Predicting expression patterns from regulatory sequence in Drosophila
segmentation.

Segal E(1), Raveh-Sadka T, Schroeder M, Unnerstall U, Gaul U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. eran@weizmann.ac.il

The establishment of complex expression patterns at precise times and locations
is key to metazoan development, yet a mechanistic understanding of the underlying
transcription control networks is still missing. Here we describe a novel
thermodynamic model that computes expression patterns as a function of
cis-regulatory sequence and of the binding-site preferences and expression of
participating transcription factors. We apply this model to the segmentation gene
network of Drosophila melanogaster and find that it predicts expression patterns 
of cis-regulatory modules with remarkable accuracy, demonstrating that positional
information is encoded in the regulatory sequence and input factor distribution. 
Our analysis reveals that both strong and weaker binding sites contribute,
leading to high occupancy of the module DNA, and conferring robustness against
mutation; short-range homotypic clustering of weaker sites facilitates
cooperative binding, which is necessary to sharpen the patterns. Our
computational framework is generally applicable to most protein-DNA interaction
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06496 
PMID: 18172436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature06497.

Energy source of flagellar type III secretion.

Paul K(1), Erhardt M, Hirano T, Blair DF, Hughes KT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, 257 South 1400 East, Salt Lake
City, Utah 84112, USA.

Bacterial flagella contain a specialized secretion apparatus that functions to
deliver the protein subunits that form the filament and other structures to
outside the membrane. This apparatus is related to the injectisome used by many
gram-negative pathogens and symbionts to transfer effector proteins into host
cells; in both systems this export mechanism is termed 'type III' secretion. The 
flagellar secretion apparatus comprises a membrane-embedded complex of about five
proteins, and soluble factors, which include export-dedicated chaperones and an
ATPase, FliI, that was thought to provide the energy for export. Here we show
that flagellar secretion in Salmonella enterica requires the proton motive force 
(PMF) and does not require ATP hydrolysis by FliI. The export of several
flagellar export substrates was prevented by treatment with the protonophore
CCCP, with no accompanying decrease in cellular ATP levels. Weak swarming
motility and rare flagella were observed in a mutant deleted for FliI and for the
non-flagellar type-III secretion ATPases InvJ and SsaN. These findings show that 
the flagellar secretion apparatus functions as a proton-driven protein exporter
and that ATP hydrolysis is not essential for type III secretion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06497 
PMID: 18216859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):485-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06449.

Distinct roles of the FliI ATPase and proton motive force in bacterial flagellar 
protein export.

Minamino T(1), Namba K.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, 1-3 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Translocation of many soluble proteins across cell membranes occurs in an
ATPase-driven manner. For construction of the bacterial flagellum responsible for
motility, most of the components are exported by the flagellar protein export
apparatus. The FliI ATPase is required for this export, and its ATPase activity
is regulated by FliH; however, it is unclear how the chemical energy derived from
ATP hydrolysis is used for the export process. Here we report that flagellar
proteins of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium are exported even in the
absence of FliI. A fliH fliI double null mutant was weakly motile. Certain
mutations in FlhA or FlhB, which form the core of the export gate, substantially 
improved protein export and motility of the double null mutant. Furthermore,
proton motive force was essential for the export process. These results suggest
that the FliH-FliI complex facilitates only the initial entry of export
substrates into the gate, with the energy of ATP hydrolysis being used to
disassemble and release the FliH-FliI complex from the protein about to be
exported. The rest of the successive unfolding/translocation process of the
substrates is driven by proton motive force.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06449 
PMID: 18216858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):480-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06520.

A molecular framework for light and gibberellin control of cell elongation.

de Lucas M(1), Davière JM, Rodríguez-Falcón M, Pontin M, Iglesias-Pedraz JM,
Lorrain S, Fankhauser C, Blázquez MA, Titarenko E, Prat S.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética Molecular de Plantas, Centro Nacional de
Biotecnología-CSIC, Campus Univ. Autónoma de Madrid, Cantoblanco. c/ Darwin 3,
28049 Madrid, Spain.

Cell elongation during seedling development is antagonistically regulated by
light and gibberellins (GAs). Light induces photomorphogenesis, leading to
inhibition of hypocotyl growth, whereas GAs promote etiolated growth,
characterized by increased hypocotyl elongation. The mechanism underlying this
antagonistic interaction remains unclear. Here we report on the central role of
the Arabidopsis thaliana nuclear transcription factor PIF4 (encoded by
PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING FACTOR 4) in the positive control of genes mediating cell
elongation and show that this factor is negatively regulated by the light
photoreceptor phyB (ref. 4) and by DELLA proteins that have a key repressor
function in GA signalling. Our results demonstrate that PIF4 is destabilized by
phyB in the light and that DELLAs block PIF4 transcriptional activity by binding 
the DNA-recognition domain of this factor. We show that GAs abrogate such
repression by promoting DELLA destabilization, and therefore cause a concomitant 
accumulation of free PIF4 in the nucleus. Consistent with this model,
intermediate hypocotyl lengths were observed in transgenic plants
over-accumulating both DELLAs and PIF4. Destabilization of this factor by phyB,
together with its inactivation by DELLAs, constitutes a protein interaction
framework that explains how plants integrate both light and GA signals to
optimize growth and development in response to changing environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06520 
PMID: 18216857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):475-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06448.

Coordinated regulation of Arabidopsis thaliana development by light and
gibberellins.

Feng S(1), Martinez C, Gusmaroli G, Wang Y, Zhou J, Wang F, Chen L, Yu L,
Iglesias-Pedraz JM, Kircher S, Schäfer E, Fu X, Fan LM, Deng XW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8104, USA.

Light and gibberellins (GAs) mediate many essential and partially overlapping
plant developmental processes. DELLA proteins are GA-signalling repressors that
block GA-induced development. GA induces degradation of DELLA proteins via the
ubiquitin/proteasome pathway, but light promotes accumulation of DELLA proteins
by reducing GA levels. It was proposed that DELLA proteins restrain plant growth 
largely through their effect on gene expression. However, the precise mechanism
of their function in coordinating GA signalling and gene expression remains
unknown. Here we characterize a nuclear protein interaction cascade mediating
transduction of GA signals to the activity regulation of a light-responsive
transcription factor. In the absence of GA, nuclear-localized DELLA proteins
accumulate to higher levels, interact with phytochrome-interacting factor 3
(PIF3, a bHLH-type transcription factor) and prevent PIF3 from binding to its
target gene promoters and regulating gene expression, and therefore abrogate
PIF3-mediated light control of hypocotyl elongation. In the presence of GA, GID1 
proteins (GA receptors) elevate their direct interaction with DELLA proteins in
the nucleus, trigger DELLA protein's ubiquitination and proteasome-mediated
degradation, and thus release PIF3 from the negative effect of DELLA proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06448 
PMCID: PMC2562044
PMID: 18216856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):470-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06514.

Neurite arborization and mosaic spacing in the mouse retina require DSCAM.

Fuerst PG(1), Koizumi A, Masland RH, Burgess RW.

Author information: 
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine 04609, USA.

To establish functional circuitry, retinal neurons occupy spatial domains by
arborizing their processes, which requires the self-avoidance of neurites from an
individual cell, and by spacing their cell bodies, which requires positioning the
soma and establishing a zone within which other cells of the same type are
excluded. The mosaic patterns of distinct cell types form independently and
overlap. The cues that direct these processes in the vertebrate retina are not
known. Here we show that some types of retinal amacrine cells from mice with a
spontaneous mutation in Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (Dscam), a gene
encoding an immunoglobulin-superfamily member adhesion molecule, have defects in 
the arborization of processes and in the spacing of cell bodies. In the mutant
retina, cells that would normally express Dscam have hyperfasciculated processes,
preventing them from creating an orderly arbor. Also, their cell bodies are
randomly distributed or pulled into clumps rather than being regularly spaced
mosaics. Our results indicate that mouse DSCAM mediates isoneuronal
self-avoidance for arborization and heteroneuronal self-avoidance within specific
cell types to prevent fasciculation and to preserve mosaic spacing. These
functions are analogous to those of Drosophila DSCAM (ref. 6) and DSCAM2 (ref.
7). DSCAM may function similarly in other regions of the mammalian nervous
system, and this role may extend to other members of the mammalian Dscam gene
family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06514 
PMCID: PMC2259282
PMID: 18216855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):465-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06469.

Dscam and Sidekick proteins direct lamina-specific synaptic connections in
vertebrate retina.

Yamagata M(1), Sanes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Synaptic circuits in the retina transform visual input gathered by photoreceptors
into messages that retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) send to the brain. Processes of 
retinal interneurons (amacrine and bipolar cells) form synapses on dendrites of
RGCs in the inner plexiform layer (IPL). The IPL is divided into at least 10
parallel sublaminae; subsets of interneurons and RGCs arborize and form synapses 
in just one or a few of them. These lamina-specific circuits determine the visual
features to which RGC subtypes respond. Here we show that four closely related
immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) adhesion molecules--Dscam (Down's syndrome cell
adhesion molecule), DscamL (refs 6-9), Sidekick-1 and Sidekick-2 (ref. 10)--are
expressed in chick by non-overlapping subsets of interneurons and RGCs that form 
synapses in distinct IPL sublaminae. Moreover, each protein is concentrated
within the appropriate sublaminae and each mediates homophilic adhesion. Loss-
and gain-of-function studies in vivo indicate that these IgSF members participate
in determining the IPL sublaminae in which synaptic partners arborize and
connect. Thus, vertebrate Dscams, like Drosophila Dscams, play roles in neural
connectivity. Together, our results on Dscams and Sidekicks suggest the existence
of an IgSF code for laminar specificity in retina and, by implication, in other
parts of the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06469 
PMID: 18216854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):457-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06477.

Clusters of ant colonies and robust criticality in a tropical agroecosystem.

Vandermeer J(1), Perfecto I, Philpott SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Kraus Natural Science
Building, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
jvander@umich.edu

Although sometimes difficult to measure at large scales, spatial pattern is
important in natural biological spaces as a determinant of key ecological
properties such as species diversity, stability, resiliency and others. Here we
demonstrate, at a large spatial scale, that a common species of tropical arboreal
ant forms clusters of nests through a combination of local satellite colony
formation and density-dependent control by natural enemies, mainly a parasitic
fly. Cluster sizes fall off as a power law consistent with a so-called robust
critical state. This endogenous cluster formation at a critical state is a unique
example of an insect population forming a non-random pattern at a large spatial
scale. Furthermore, because the species is a keystone of a larger network that
contributes to the ecosystem function of pest control, this is an example of how 
spatial dynamics at a large scale can affect ecosystem service at a local level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06477 
PMID: 18216853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):453-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06481.

Deformation and rupture of the oceanic crust may control growth of Hawaiian
volcanoes.

Got JL(1), Monteiller V, Monteux J, Hassani R, Okubo P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géophysique Interne et Tectonophysique, Université de Savoie,
73376, Le Bourget-du-Lac, France. jlgot@univ-savoie.fr

Hawaiian volcanoes are formed by the eruption of large quantities of basaltic
magma related to hot-spot activity below the Pacific Plate. Despite the apparent 
simplicity of the parent process--emission of magma onto the oceanic crust--the
resulting edifices display some topographic complexity. Certain features, such as
rift zones and large flank slides, are common to all Hawaiian volcanoes,
indicating similarities in their genesis; however, the underlying mechanism
controlling this process remains unknown. Here we use seismological
investigations and finite-element mechanical modelling to show that the load
exerted by large Hawaiian volcanoes can be sufficient to rupture the oceanic
crust. This intense deformation, combined with the accelerated subsidence of the 
oceanic crust and the weakness of the volcanic edifice/oceanic crust interface,
may control the surface morphology of Hawaiian volcanoes, especially the
existence of their giant flank instabilities. Further studies are needed to
determine whether such processes occur in other active intraplate volcanoes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06481 
PMID: 18216852 


896. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):449-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06505.

Anthropogenically enhanced fluxes of water and carbon from the Mississippi River.

Raymond PA(1), Oh NH, Turner RE, Broussard W.

Author information: 
(1)Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, 21 Sachem Street, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA. peter.raymond@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):405-6.

The water and dissolved inorganic carbon exported by rivers are important net
fluxes that connect terrestrial and oceanic water and carbon reservoirs. For most
rivers, the majority of dissolved inorganic carbon is in the form of bicarbonate.
The riverine bicarbonate flux originates mainly from the dissolution of rock
minerals by soil water carbon dioxide, a process called chemical weathering,
which controls the buffering capacity and mineral content of receiving streams
and rivers. Here we introduce an unprecedented high-temporal-resolution, 100-year
data set from the Mississippi River and couple it with sub-watershed and
precipitation data to reveal that the large increase in bicarbonate flux that has
occurred over the past 50 years (ref. 3) is clearly anthropogenically driven. We 
show that the increase in bicarbonate and water fluxes is caused mainly by an
increase in discharge from agricultural watersheds that has not been balanced by 
a rise in precipitation, which is also relevant to nutrient and pesticide fluxes 
to the Gulf of Mexico. These findings demonstrate that alterations in chemical
weathering are relevant to improving contemporary biogeochemical budgets.
Furthermore, land use change and management were arguably more important than
changes in climate and plant CO2 fertilization to increases in riverine water and
carbon export from this large region over the past 50 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06505 
PMID: 18216851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):445-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06442.

Emergent reduction of electronic state dimensionality in dense ordered Li-Be
alloys.

Feng J(1), Hennig RG, Ashcroft NW, Hoffmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University, Baker
Laboratory, Ithaca, New York 14853-1301, USA.

High pressure is known to influence electronic structure and crystal packing, and
can in some cases even induce compound formation between elements that do not
bond under ambient conditions. Here we present a computational study showing that
high pressure fundamentally alters the reactivity of the light elements lithium
(Li) and beryllium (Be), which are the first of the metals in the condensed state
and immiscible under normal conditions. We identify four stoichiometric
Li(x)Be(1-x) compounds that are stable over a range of pressures, and find that
the electronic density of states of one of them displays a remarkable step-like
feature near the bottom of the valence band and then remains almost constant with
increasing energy. These characteristics are typical of a quasi-two-dimensional
electronic structure, the emergence of which in a three-dimensional environment
is rather unexpected. We attribute this observation to large size differences
between the ionic cores of Li and Be: as the density increases, the Li cores
start to overlap and thereby expel valence electrons into quasi-two-dimensional
layers characterized by delocalized free-particle-like states in the vicinity of 
Be ions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06442 
PMID: 18216850 


898. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):441-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06472.

Optical pumping of a single hole spin in a quantum dot.

Gerardot BD(1), Brunner D, Dalgarno PA, Ohberg P, Seidl S, Kroner M, Karrai K,
Stoltz NG, Petroff PM, Warburton RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Physical Sciences, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh
EH14 4AS, UK. b.d.gerardot@hw.ac.uk

The spin of an electron is a natural two-level system for realizing a quantum bit
in the solid state. For an electron trapped in a semiconductor quantum dot,
strong quantum confinement highly suppresses the detrimental effect of
phonon-related spin relaxation. However, this advantage is offset by the
hyperfine interaction between the electron spin and the 10(4) to 10(6) spins of
the host nuclei in the quantum dot. Random fluctuations in the nuclear spin
ensemble lead to fast spin decoherence in about ten nanoseconds. Spin-echo
techniques have been used to mitigate the hyperfine interaction, but completely
cancelling the effect is more attractive. In principle, polarizing all the
nuclear spins can achieve this but is very difficult to realize in practice.
Exploring materials with zero-spin nuclei is another option, and carbon
nanotubes, graphene quantum dots and silicon have been proposed. An alternative
is to use a semiconductor hole. Unlike an electron, a valence hole in a quantum
dot has an atomic p orbital which conveniently goes to zero at the location of
all the nuclei, massively suppressing the interaction with the nuclear spins.
Furthermore, in a quantum dot with strong strain and strong quantization, the
heavy hole with spin-3/2 behaves as a spin-1/2 system and spin decoherence
mechanisms are weak. We demonstrate here high fidelity (about 99 per cent)
initialization of a single hole spin confined to a self-assembled quantum dot by 
optical pumping. Our scheme works even at zero magnetic field, demonstrating a
negligible hole spin hyperfine interaction. We determine a hole spin relaxation
time at low field of about one millisecond. These results suggest a route to the 
realization of solid-state quantum networks that can intra-convert the spin state
with the polarization of a photon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06472 
PMID: 18216849 


899. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):437-40. doi: 10.1038/nature06533.

Depth of a strong jovian jet from a planetary-scale disturbance driven by storms.

Sánchez-Lavega A(1), Orton GS, Hueso R, García-Melendo E, Pérez-Hoyos S,
Simon-Miller A, Rojas JF, Gómez JM, Yanamandra-Fisher P, Fletcher L, Joels J,
Kemerer J, Hora J, Karkoschka E, de Pater I, Wong MH, Marcus PS, Pinilla-Alonso
N, Carvalho F, Go C, Parker D, Salway M, Valimberti M, Wesley A, Pujic Z.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física Aplicada I, ETS Ingenieros, Universidad del País Vasco,
Alameda Urquijo s/n, 48013 Bilbao, Spain. agustin.sanchez@ehu.es

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):1022.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):409-10.

The atmospheres of the gas giant planets (Jupiter and Saturn) contain jets that
dominate the circulation at visible levels. The power source for these jets
(solar radiation, internal heat, or both) and their vertical structure below the 
upper cloud are major open questions in the atmospheric circulation and
meteorology of giant planets. Several observations and in situ measurements found
intense winds at a depth of 24 bar, and have been interpreted as supporting an
internal heat source. This issue remains controversial, in part because of
effects from the local meteorology. Here we report observations and modelling of 
two plumes in Jupiter's atmosphere that erupted at the same latitude as the
strongest jet (23 degrees N). The plumes reached a height of 30 km above the
surrounding clouds, moved faster than any other feature (169 m s(-1)), and left
in their wake a turbulent planetary-scale disturbance containing red aerosols. On
the basis of dynamical modelling, we conclude that the data are consistent only
with a wind that extends well below the level where solar radiation is deposited.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06533 
PMID: 18216848 


900. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):417-24. doi: 10.1038/nature06485.

Catalytic C-H functionalization by metal carbenoid and nitrenoid insertion.

Davies HM(1), Manning JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University at Buffalo, the State University of New
York, Buffalo, New York 14260-3000, USA. hdavies@buffalo.edu

Novel reactions that can selectively functionalize carbon-hydrogen bonds are of
intense interest to the chemical community because they offer new strategic
approaches for synthesis. A very promising 'carbon-hydrogen functionalization'
method involves the insertion of metal carbenes and nitrenes into C-H bonds. This
area has experienced considerable growth in the past decade, particularly in the 
area of enantioselective intermolecular reactions. Here we discuss several facets
of these kinds of C-H functionalization reactions and provide a perspective on
how this methodology has affected the synthesis of complex natural products and
potential pharmaceutical agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06485 
PMCID: PMC3033428
PMID: 18216847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):425-30. doi: 10.1038/nature06553. Epub 2008 Jan 16.

Tetherin inhibits retrovirus release and is antagonized by HIV-1 Vpu.

Neil SJ(1), Zang T, Bieniasz PD.

Author information: 
(1)Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center and Laboratory of Retrovirology, The
Rockefeller University, 455 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):406-8.

Human cells possess an antiviral activity that inhibits the release of retrovirus
particles, and other enveloped virus particles, and is antagonized by the HIV-1
accessory protein, Vpu. This antiviral activity can be constitutively expressed
or induced by interferon-alpha, and it consists of protein-based tethers, which
we term 'tetherins', that cause retention of fully formed virions on infected
cell surfaces. Using deductive constraints and gene expression analyses, we
identify CD317 (also called BST2 or HM1.24), a membrane protein of previously
unknown function, as a tetherin. Specifically, CD317 expression correlated with, 
and induced, a requirement for Vpu during HIV-1 and murine leukaemia virus
particle release. Furthermore, in cells where HIV-1 virion release requires Vpu
expression, depletion of CD317 abolished this requirement. CD317 caused retention
of virions on cell surfaces and, after endocytosis, in CD317-positive
compartments. Vpu co-localized with CD317 and inhibited these effects. Inhibition
of Vpu function and consequent mobilization of tetherin's antiviral activity is a
potential therapeutic strategy in HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06553 
PMID: 18200009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):460-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06488. Epub 2008 Jan 9.

Histone H2AX-dependent GABA(A) receptor regulation of stem cell proliferation.

Andäng M(1), Hjerling-Leffler J, Moliner A, Lundgren TK, Castelo-Branco G, Nanou 
E, Pozas E, Bryja V, Halliez S, Nishimaru H, Wilbertz J, Arenas E, Koltzenburg M,
Charnay P, El Manira A, Ibañez CF, Ernfors P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Epilepsy Curr. 2008 Sep-Oct;8(5):137-9.

Stem cell self-renewal implies proliferation under continued maintenance of
multipotency. Small changes in numbers of stem cells may lead to large
differences in differentiated cell numbers, resulting in significant
physiological consequences. Proliferation is typically regulated in the G1 phase,
which is associated with differentiation and cell cycle arrest. However,
embryonic stem (ES) cells may lack a G1 checkpoint. Regulation of proliferation
in the 'DNA damage' S/G2 cell cycle checkpoint pathway is known for its role in
the maintenance of chromatin structural integrity. Here we show that
autocrine/paracrine gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) signalling by means of GABA(A)
receptors negatively controls ES cell and peripheral neural crest stem (NCS) cell
proliferation, preimplantation embryonic growth and proliferation in the
boundary-cap stem cell niche, resulting in an attenuation of neuronal progenies
from this stem cell niche. Activation of GABA(A) receptors leads to
hyperpolarization, increased cell volume and accumulation of stem cells in S
phase, thereby causing a rapid decrease in cell proliferation. GABA(A) receptors 
signal through S-phase checkpoint kinases of the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH
kinase-related kinase family and the histone variant H2AX. This signalling
pathway critically regulates proliferation independently of differentiation,
apoptosis and overt damage to DNA. These results indicate the presence of a
fundamentally different mechanism of proliferation control in these stem cells,
in comparison with most somatic cells, involving proteins in the DNA damage
checkpoint pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06488 
PMID: 18185516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):431-6. Epub 2007 Dec 19.

Host genome surveillance for retrotransposons by transposon-derived proteins.

Cam HP(1), Noma K, Ebina H, Levin HL, Grewal SI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 24;451(7177):412-3.

Transposable elements and their remnants constitute a substantial fraction of
eukaryotic genomes. Host genomes have evolved defence mechanisms, including
chromatin modifications and RNA interference, to regulate transposable elements. 
Here we describe a genome surveillance mechanism for retrotransposons by
transposase-derived centromeric protein CENP-B homologues of the fission yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe. CENP-B homologues of S. pombe localize at and recruit 
histone deacetylases to silence Tf2 retrotransposons. CENP-Bs also repress solo
long terminal repeats (LTRs) and LTR-associated genes. Tf2 elements are clustered
into 'Tf' bodies, the organization of which depends on CENP-Bs that display
discrete nuclear structures. Furthermore, CENP-Bs prevent an 'extinct' Tf1
retrotransposon from re-entering the host genome by blocking its recombination
with extant Tf2, and silence and immobilize a Tf1 integrant that becomes
sequestered into Tf bodies. Our results reveal a probable ancient retrotransposon
surveillance pathway important for host genome integrity, and highlight potential
conflicts between DNA transposons and retrotransposons, major transposable
elements believed to have greatly moulded the evolution of genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06499 
PMID: 18094683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):363-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06482.

Structural basis of microtubule severing by the hereditary spastic paraplegia
protein spastin.

Roll-Mecak A(1), Vale RD.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cellular and Molecular
Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, 600 16th Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Spastin, the most common locus for mutations in hereditary spastic paraplegias,
and katanin are related microtubule-severing AAA ATPases involved in constructing
neuronal and non-centrosomal microtubule arrays and in segregating chromosomes.
The mechanism by which spastin and katanin break and destabilize microtubules is 
unknown, in part owing to the lack of structural information on these enzymes.
Here we report the X-ray crystal structure of the Drosophila spastin AAA domain
and provide a model for the active spastin hexamer generated using small-angle
X-ray scattering combined with atomic docking. The spastin hexamer forms a ring
with a prominent central pore and six radiating arms that may dock onto the
microtubule. Helices unique to the microtubule-severing AAA ATPases surround the 
entrances to the pore on either side of the ring, and three highly conserved
loops line the pore lumen. Mutagenesis reveals essential roles for these
structural elements in the severing reaction. Peptide and antibody inhibition
experiments further show that spastin may dismantle microtubules by recognizing
specific features in the carboxy-terminal tail of tubulin. Collectively, our data
support a model in which spastin pulls the C terminus of tubulin through its
central pore, generating a mechanical force that destabilizes tubulin-tubulin
interactions within the microtubule lattice. Our work also provides insights into
the structural defects in spastin that arise from mutations identified in
hereditary spastic paraplegia patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06482 
PMCID: PMC2882799
PMID: 18202664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):359-62. doi: 10.1038/nature06495.

Translational control of intron splicing in eukaryotes.

Jaillon O(1), Bouhouche K, Gout JF, Aury JM, Noel B, Saudemont B, Nowacki M,
Serrano V, Porcel BM, Ségurens B, Le Mouël A, Lepère G, Schächter V, Bétermier M,
Cohen J, Wincker P, Sperling L, Duret L, Meyer E.

Author information: 
(1)Genoscope (CEA), 2 rue Gaston Crémieux CP5706, 91057 Evry, France.

Most eukaryotic genes are interrupted by non-coding introns that must be
accurately removed from pre-messenger RNAs to produce translatable mRNAs.
Splicing is guided locally by short conserved sequences, but genes typically
contain many potential splice sites, and the mechanisms specifying the correct
sites remain poorly understood. In most organisms, short introns recognized by
the intron definition mechanism cannot be efficiently predicted solely on the
basis of sequence motifs. In multicellular eukaryotes, long introns are
recognized through exon definition and most genes produce multiple mRNA variants 
through alternative splicing. The nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway may 
further shape the observed sets of variants by selectively degrading those
containing premature termination codons, which are frequently produced in
mammals. Here we show that the tiny introns of the ciliate Paramecium tetraurelia
are under strong selective pressure to cause premature termination of mRNA
translation in the event of intron retention, and that the same bias is observed 
among the short introns of plants, fungi and animals. By knocking down the two P.
tetraurelia genes encoding UPF1, a protein that is crucial in NMD, we show that
the intrinsic efficiency of splicing varies widely among introns and that NMD
activity can significantly reduce the fraction of unspliced mRNAs. The results
suggest that, independently of alternative splicing, species with large intron
numbers universally rely on NMD to compensate for suboptimal splicing efficiency 
and accuracy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06495 
PMID: 18202663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06475.

The bacterial enzyme RppH triggers messenger RNA degradation by 5' pyrophosphate 
removal.

Deana A(1), Celesnik H, Belasco JG.

Author information: 
(1)Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine at the Skirball Institute, and
Department of Microbiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

The long-standing assumption that messenger RNA (mRNA) degradation in Escherichia
coli begins with endonucleolytic cleavage has been challenged by the recent
discovery that RNA decay can be triggered by a prior non-nucleolytic event that
marks transcripts for rapid turnover: the rate-determining conversion of the 5'
terminus from a triphosphate to a monophosphate. This modification creates better
substrates for the endonuclease RNase E, whose cleavage activity at internal
sites is greatly enhanced when the RNA 5' end is monophosphorylated. Moreover, it
suggests an explanation for the influence of 5' termini on the endonucleolytic
cleavage of primary transcripts, which are triphosphorylated. However, no enzyme 
capable of removing pyrophosphate from RNA 5' ends has been identified in any
bacterial species. Here we show that the E. coli protein RppH (formerly
NudH/YgdP) is the RNA pyrophosphohydrolase that initiates mRNA decay by this
5'-end-dependent pathway. In vitro, RppH efficiently removes pyrophosphate from
the 5' end of triphosphorylated RNA, irrespective of the identity of the
5'-terminal nucleotide. In vivo, it accelerates the degradation of hundreds of E.
coli transcripts by converting their triphosphorylated 5' ends to a more labile
monophosphorylated state that can stimulate subsequent ribonuclease cleavage.
That the action of the pyrophosphohydrolase is impeded when the 5' end is
structurally sequestered by a stem-loop helps to explain the stabilizing
influence of 5'-terminal base pairing on mRNA lifetimes. Together, these findings
suggest a possible basis for the effect of RppH and its orthologues on the
invasiveness of bacterial pathogens. Interestingly, this master regulator of
5'-end-dependent mRNA degradation in E. coli not only catalyses a process
functionally reminiscent of eukaryotic mRNA decapping but also bears an
evolutionary relationship to the eukaryotic decapping enzyme Dcp2.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06475 
PMID: 18202662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):350-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06479.

Listeriolysin O allows Listeria monocytogenes replication in macrophage vacuoles.

Birmingham CL(1), Canadien V, Kaniuk NA, Steinberg BE, Higgins DE, Brumell JH.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8,
Canada.

Listeria monocytogenes is an intracellular bacterial pathogen that replicates
rapidly in the cytosol of host cells during acute infection. Surprisingly, these 
bacteria were found to occupy vacuoles in liver granuloma macrophages during
persistent infection of severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice. Here we show
that L. monocytogenes can replicate in vacuoles within macrophages. In livers of 
SCID mice infected for 21 days, we observed bacteria in large LAMP1(+)
compartments that we termed spacious Listeria-containing phagosomes (SLAPs).
SLAPs were also observed in vitro, and were found to be non-acidic and
non-degradative compartments that are generated in an autophagy-dependent manner.
The replication rate of bacteria in SLAPs was found to be reduced compared to the
rate of those in the cytosol. Listeriolysin O (LLO, encoded by hly), a
pore-forming toxin essential for L. monocytogenes virulence, was necessary and
sufficient for SLAP formation. A L. monocytogenes mutant with low LLO expression 
was impaired for phagosome escape but replicated slowly in SLAPs over a 72 h
period. Therefore, our studies reveal a role for LLO in promoting L.
monocytogenes replication in vacuoles and suggest a mechanism by which this
pathogen can establish persistent infection in host macrophages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06479 
PMID: 18202661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):345-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06489.

Identification of cells initiating human melanomas.

Schatton T(1), Murphy GF, Frank NY, Yamaura K, Waaga-Gasser AM, Gasser M, Zhan Q,
Jordan S, Duncan LM, Weishaupt C, Fuhlbrigge RC, Kupper TS, Sayegh MH, Frank MH.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Research Center, Children's Hospital Boston and Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Tumour-initiating cells capable of self-renewal and differentiation, which are
responsible for tumour growth, have been identified in human haematological
malignancies and solid cancers. If such minority populations are associated with 
tumour progression in human patients, specific targeting of tumour-initiating
cells could be a strategy to eradicate cancers currently resistant to systemic
therapy. Here we identify a subpopulation enriched for human
malignant-melanoma-initiating cells (MMIC) defined by expression of the
chemoresistance mediator ABCB5 (refs 7, 8) and show that specific targeting of
this tumorigenic minority population inhibits tumour growth. ABCB5+ tumour cells 
detected in human melanoma patients show a primitive molecular phenotype and
correlate with clinical melanoma progression. In serial human-to-mouse
xenotransplantation experiments, ABCB5+ melanoma cells possess greater
tumorigenic capacity than ABCB5- bulk populations and re-establish clinical
tumour heterogeneity. In vivo genetic lineage tracking demonstrates a specific
capacity of ABCB5+ subpopulations for self-renewal and differentiation, because
ABCB5+ cancer cells generate both ABCB5+ and ABCB5- progeny, whereas ABCB5-
tumour populations give rise, at lower rates, exclusively to ABCB5- cells. In an 
initial proof-of-principle analysis, designed to test the hypothesis that MMIC
are also required for growth of established tumours, systemic administration of a
monoclonal antibody directed at ABCB5, shown to be capable of inducing
antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity in ABCB5+ MMIC, exerted
tumour-inhibitory effects. Identification of tumour-initiating cells with
enhanced abundance in more advanced disease but susceptibility to specific
targeting through a defining chemoresistance determinant has important
implications for cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06489 
PMCID: PMC3660705
PMID: 18202660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):340-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06457.

Cyclic dermal BMP signalling regulates stem cell activation during hair
regeneration.

Plikus MV(1), Mayer JA, de la Cruz D, Baker RE, Maini PK, Maxson R, Chuong CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

In the age of stem cell engineering it is critical to understand how stem cell
activity is regulated during regeneration. Hairs are mini-organs that undergo
cyclic regeneration throughout adult life, and are an important model for organ
regeneration. Hair stem cells located in the follicle bulge are regulated by the 
surrounding microenvironment, or niche. The activation of such stem cells is
cyclic, involving periodic beta-catenin activity. In the adult mouse,
regeneration occurs in waves in a follicle population, implying coordination
among adjacent follicles and the extrafollicular environment. Here we show that
unexpected periodic expression of bone morphogenetic protein 2 (Bmp2) and Bmp4 in
the dermis regulates this process. This BMP cycle is out of phase with the
WNT/beta-catenin cycle, thus dividing the conventional telogen into new
functional phases: one refractory and the other competent for hair regeneration, 
characterized by high and low BMP signalling, respectively. Overexpression of
noggin, a BMP antagonist, in mouse skin resulted in a markedly shortened
refractory phase and faster propagation of the regenerative wave. Transplantation
of skin from this mutant onto a wild-type host showed that follicles in donor and
host can affect their cycling behaviours mutually, with the outcome depending on 
the equilibrium of BMP activity in the dermis. Administration of BMP4 protein
caused the competent region to become refractory. These results show that BMPs
may be the long-sought 'chalone' inhibitors of hair growth postulated by
classical experiments. Taken together, results presented in this study provide an
example of hierarchical regulation of local organ stem cell homeostasis by the
inter-organ macroenvironment. The expression of Bmp2 in subcutaneous adipocytes
indicates physiological integration between these two thermo-regulatory organs.
Our findings have practical importance for studies using mouse skin as a model
for carcinogenesis, intra-cutaneous drug delivery and stem cell engineering
studies, because they highlight the acute need to differentiate supportive versus
inhibitory regions in the host skin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06457 
PMCID: PMC2696201
PMID: 18202659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):335-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06494.

Identification of RPS14 as a 5q- syndrome gene by RNA interference screen.

Ebert BL(1), Pretz J, Bosco J, Chang CY, Tamayo P, Galili N, Raza A, Root DE,
Attar E, Ellis SR, Golub TR.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):252-3.

Somatic chromosomal deletions in cancer are thought to indicate the location of
tumour suppressor genes, by which a complete loss of gene function occurs through
biallelic deletion, point mutation or epigenetic silencing, thus fulfilling
Knudson's two-hit hypothesis. In many recurrent deletions, however, such
biallelic inactivation has not been found. One prominent example is the 5q-
syndrome, a subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by a defect in
erythroid differentiation. Here we describe an RNA-mediated interference
(RNAi)-based approach to discovery of the 5q- disease gene. We found that partial
loss of function of the ribosomal subunit protein RPS14 phenocopies the disease
in normal haematopoietic progenitor cells, and also that forced expression of
RPS14 rescues the disease phenotype in patient-derived bone marrow cells. In
addition, we identified a block in the processing of pre-ribosomal RNA in
RPS14-deficient cells that is functionally equivalent to the defect in
Diamond-Blackfan anaemia, linking the molecular pathophysiology of the 5q-
syndrome to a congenital syndrome causing bone marrow failure. These results
indicate that the 5q- syndrome is caused by a defect in ribosomal protein
function and suggest that RNAi screening is an effective strategy for identifying
causal haploinsufficiency disease genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06494 
PMCID: PMC3771855
PMID: 18202658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):330-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06493.

Reversal of pathological pain through specific spinal GABAA receptor subtypes.

Knabl J(1), Witschi R, Hösl K, Reinold H, Zeilhofer UB, Ahmadi S, Brockhaus J,
Sergejeva M, Hess A, Brune K, Fritschy JM, Rudolph U, Möhler H, Zeilhofer HU.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, University
of Erlangen-Nürnberg, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany.

Inflammatory diseases and neuropathic insults are frequently accompanied by
severe and debilitating pain, which can become chronic and often unresponsive to 
conventional analgesic treatment. A loss of synaptic inhibition in the spinal
dorsal horn is considered to contribute significantly to this pain pathology.
Facilitation of spinal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurotransmission
through modulation of GABA(A) receptors should be able to compensate for this
loss. With the use of GABA(A)-receptor point-mutated knock-in mice in which
specific GABA(A) receptor subtypes have been selectively rendered insensitive to 
benzodiazepine-site ligands, we show here that pronounced analgesia can be
achieved by specifically targeting spinal GABA(A) receptors containing the alpha2
and/or alpha3 subunits. We show that their selective activation by the
non-sedative ('alpha1-sparing') benzodiazepine-site ligand L-838,417 (ref. 13) is
highly effective against inflammatory and neuropathic pain yet devoid of unwanted
sedation, motor impairment and tolerance development. L-838,417 not only
diminished the nociceptive input to the brain but also reduced the activity of
brain areas related to the associative-emotional components of pain, as shown by 
functional magnetic resonance imaging in rats. These results provide a rational
basis for the development of subtype-selective GABAergic drugs for the treatment 
of chronic pain, which is often refractory to classical analgesics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06493 
PMID: 18202657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):326-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06427.

Dry mantle transition zone inferred from the conductivity of wadsleyite and
ringwoodite.

Yoshino T(1), Manthilake G, Matsuzaki T, Katsura T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Study of the Earth's Interior, Okayama University, Misasa,
Tottori 682-0193, Japan. tyoshino@misasa.okayama-u.ac.jp

The Earth's mantle transition zone could potentially store a large amount of
water, as the minerals wadsleyite and ringwoodite incorporate a significant
amount of water in their crystal structure. The water content in the transition
zone can be estimated from the electrical conductivities of hydrous wadsleyite
and ringwoodite, although such estimates depend on accurate knowledge of the two 
conduction mechanisms in these minerals (small polaron and proton conductions),
which early studies have failed to distinguish between. Here we report the
electrical conductivity of these two minerals obtained by high-pressure
multi-anvil experiments. We found that the small polaron conductions of these
minerals are substantially lower than previously estimated. The contributions of 
proton conduction are small at temperatures corresponding to the mantle
transition zone and the conductivity of wadsleyite is considerably lower than
that of ringwoodite for both mechanisms. The dry model mantle shows considerable 
conductivity jumps associated with the olivine-wadsleyite, wadsleyite-ringwoodite
and post-spinel transitions. Such a dry model explains well the currently
available conductivity-depth profiles obtained from geoelectromagnetic studies.
We therefore conclude that there is no need to introduce a significant amount of 
water in the mantle transition to satisfy electrical conductivity constraints.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06427 
PMID: 18202656 


913. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):323-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06441.

Net production of oxygen in the subtropical ocean.

Riser SC(1), Johnson KS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA. riser@ocean.washington.edu

The question of whether the plankton communities in low-nutrient regions of the
ocean, comprising 80% of the global ocean surface area, are net producers or
consumers of oxygen and fixed carbon is a key uncertainty in the global carbon
cycle. Direct measurements in bottle experiments indicate net oxygen consumption 
in the sunlit zone, whereas geochemical evidence suggests that the upper ocean is
a net source of oxygen. One possible resolution to this conflict is that primary 
production in the gyres is episodic and thus difficult to observe: in this model,
oligotrophic regions would be net consumers of oxygen during most of the year,
but strong, brief events with high primary production rates might produce enough 
fixed carbon and dissolved oxygen to yield net production as an average over the 
annual cycle. Here we examine the balance of oxygen production over three years
at sites in the North and South Pacific subtropical gyres using the new technique
of oxygen sensors deployed on profiling floats. We find that mixing events during
early winter homogenize the upper water column and cause low oxygen
concentrations. Oxygen then increases below the mixed layer at a nearly constant 
rate that is similar to independent measures of net community production. This
continuous oxygen increase is consistent with an ecosystem that is a net producer
of fixed carbon (net autotrophic) throughout the year, with episodic events not
required to sustain positive oxygen production.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06441 
PMID: 18202655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):318-22. doi: 10.1038/nature06451.

Programming biomolecular self-assembly pathways.

Yin P(1), Choi HM, Calvert CR, Pierce NA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.

In nature, self-assembling and disassembling complexes of proteins and nucleic
acids bound to a variety of ligands perform intricate and diverse dynamic
functions. In contrast, attempts to rationally encode structure and function into
synthetic amino acid and nucleic acid sequences have largely focused on
engineering molecules that self-assemble into prescribed target structures,
rather than on engineering transient system dynamics. To design systems that
perform dynamic functions without human intervention, it is necessary to encode
within the biopolymer sequences the reaction pathways by which self-assembly
occurs. Nucleic acids show promise as a design medium for engineering dynamic
functions, including catalytic hybridization, triggered self-assembly and
molecular computation. Here, we program diverse molecular self-assembly and
disassembly pathways using a 'reaction graph' abstraction to specify
complementarity relationships between modular domains in a versatile DNA hairpin 
motif. Molecular programs are executed for a variety of dynamic functions:
catalytic formation of branched junctions, autocatalytic duplex formation by a
cross-catalytic circuit, nucleated dendritic growth of a binary molecular 'tree',
and autonomous locomotion of a bipedal walker.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06451 
PMID: 18202654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):315-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06467.

Reduction and selective oxo group silylation of the uranyl dication.

Arnold PL(1), Patel D, Wilson C, Love JB.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Edinburgh, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9
3JJ, UK. Polly.Arnold@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):250-2.

Uranium occurs in the environment predominantly as the uranyl dication [UO2]2+.
Its solubility renders this species a problematic contaminant which is, moreover,
chemically extraordinarily robust owing to strongly covalent U-O bonds. This
feature manifests itself in the uranyl dication showing little propensity to
partake in the many oxo group functionalizations and redox reactions typically
seen with [CrO2]2+, [MoO2]2+ and other transition metal analogues. As a result,
only a few examples of [UO2]2+ with functionalized oxo groups are known.
Similarly, it is only very recently that the isolation and characterization of
the singly reduced, pentavalent uranyl cation [UO2]+ has been reported. Here we
show that placing the uranyl dication within a rigid and well-defined molecular
framework while keeping the environment anaerobic allows simultaneous
single-electron reduction and selective covalent bond formation at one of the two
uranyl oxo groups. The product of this reaction is a pentavalent and
monofunctionalized [O = U...OR]+ cation that can be isolated in the presence of
transition metal cations. This finding demonstrates that under appropriate
reaction conditions, the uranyl oxo group will readily undergo radical reactions 
commonly associated only with transition metal oxo groups. We expect that this
work might also prove useful in probing the chemistry of the related but highly
radioactive plutonyl and neptunyl analogues found in nuclear waste.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06467 
PMID: 18202653 


916. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):311-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06506.

The nonlinear Fano effect.

Kroner M(1), Govorov AO, Remi S, Biedermann B, Seidl S, Badolato A, Petroff PM,
Zhang W, Barbour R, Gerardot BD, Warburton RJ, Karrai K.

Author information: 
(1)Center for NanoScience and Department für Physik,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, 80539 München, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 21;451(7181):1022.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):256.

The Fano effect is ubiquitous in the spectroscopy of, for instance, atoms, bulk
solids and semiconductor heterostructures. It arises when quantum interference
takes place between two competing optical pathways, one connecting the energy
ground state and an excited discrete state, the other connecting the ground state
with a continuum of energy states. The nature of the interference changes rapidly
as a function of energy, giving rise to characteristically asymmetric lineshapes.
The Fano effect is particularly important in the interpretation of electronic
transport and optical spectra in semiconductors. Whereas Fano's original theory
applies to the linear regime at low power, at higher power a laser field strongly
admixes the states and the physics becomes rich, leading, for example, to a
remarkable interplay of coherent nonlinear transitions. Despite the general
importance of Fano physics, this nonlinear regime has received very little
attention experimentally, presumably because the classic autoionization
processes, the original test-bed of Fano's ideas, occur in an inconvenient
spectral region, the deep ultraviolet. Here we report experiments that access the
nonlinear Fano regime by using semiconductor quantum dots, which allow both the
continuum states to be engineered and the energies to be rescaled to the near
infrared. We measure the absorption cross-section of a single quantum dot and
discover clear Fano resonances that we can tune with the device design or even in
situ with a voltage bias. In parallel, we develop a nonlinear theory applicable
to solid-state systems with fast relaxation of carriers. In the nonlinear regime,
the visibility of the Fano quantum interferences increases dramatically,
affording a sensitive probe of continuum coupling. This could be a unique method 
to detect weak couplings of a two-level quantum system (qubits), which should
ideally be decoupled from all other states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06506 
PMID: 18202652 


917. Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):305-10. doi: 10.1038/nature06492.

Precise auditory-vocal mirroring in neurons for learned vocal communication.

Prather JF(1), Peters S, Nowicki S, Mooney R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, North Carolina
27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 17;451(7176):249-50.

Brain mechanisms for communication must establish a correspondence between
sensory and motor codes used to represent the signal. One idea is that this
correspondence is established at the level of single neurons that are active when
the individual performs a particular gesture or observes a similar gesture
performed by another individual. Although neurons that display a precise
auditory-vocal correspondence could facilitate vocal communication, they have yet
to be identified. Here we report that a certain class of neurons in the swamp
sparrow forebrain displays a precise auditory-vocal correspondence. We show that 
these neurons respond in a temporally precise fashion to auditory presentation of
certain note sequences in this songbird's repertoire and to similar note
sequences in other birds' songs. These neurons display nearly identical patterns 
of activity when the bird sings the same sequence, and disrupting auditory
feedback does not alter this singing-related activity, indicating it is motor in 
nature. Furthermore, these neurons innervate striatal structures important for
song learning, raising the possibility that singing-related activity in these
cells is compared to auditory feedback to guide vocal learning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06492 
PMID: 18202651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):211-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06471.

Defective tryptophan catabolism underlies inflammation in mouse chronic
granulomatous disease.

Romani L(1), Fallarino F, De Luca A, Montagnoli C, D'Angelo C, Zelante T, Vacca
C, Bistoni F, Fioretti MC, Grohmann U, Segal BH, Puccetti P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, 06126 Perugia,
Italy. lromani@unipg.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):E18.
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):E16-7.

Half a century ago, chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) was first described as a 
disease fatally affecting the ability of children to survive infections. Various 
milestone discoveries have since been made, from an insufficient ability of
patients' leucocytes to kill microbes to the underlying genetic abnormalities. In
this inherited disorder, phagocytes lack NADPH oxidase activity and do not
generate reactive oxygen species, most notably superoxide anion, causing
recurrent bacterial and fungal infections. Patients with CGD also suffer from
chronic inflammatory conditions, most prominently granuloma formation in hollow
viscera. The precise mechanisms of the increased microbial pathogenicity have
been unclear, and more so the reasons for the exaggerated inflammatory response. 
Here we show that a superoxide-dependent step in tryptophan metabolism along the 
kynurenine pathway is blocked in CGD mice with lethal pulmonary aspergillosis,
leading to unrestrained Vgamma1(+) gammadelta T-cell reactivity, dominant
production of interleukin (IL)-17, defective regulatory T-cell activity and acute
inflammatory lung injury. Although beneficial effects are induced by IL-17
neutralization or gammadelta T-cell contraction, complete cure and reversal of
the hyperinflammatory phenotype are achieved by replacement therapy with a
natural kynurenine distal to the blockade in the pathway. Effective therapy,
which includes co-administration of recombinant interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma),
restores production of downstream immunoactive metabolites and enables the
emergence of regulatory Vgamma4(+) gammadelta and Foxp3(+) alphabeta T cells.
Therefore, paradoxically, the lack of reactive oxygen species contributes to the 
hyperinflammatory phenotype associated with NADPH oxidase deficiencies, through a
dysfunctional kynurenine pathway of tryptophan catabolism. Yet, this condition
can be reverted by reactivating the pathway downstream of the
superoxide-dependent step.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06471 
PMID: 18185592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):207-10. doi: 10.1038/nature06478.

Abscisic acid controls calcium-dependent egress and development in Toxoplasma
gondii.

Nagamune K(1), Hicks LM, Fux B, Brossier F, Chini EN, Sibley LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Calcium controls a number of critical events, including motility, secretion, cell
invasion and egress by apicomplexan parasites. Compared to animal and plant
cells, the molecular mechanisms that govern calcium signalling in parasites are
poorly understood. Here we show that the production of the phytohormone abscisic 
acid (ABA) controls calcium signalling within the apicomplexan parasite
Toxoplasma gondii, an opportunistic human pathogen. In plants, ABA controls a
number of important events, including environmental stress responses, embryo
development and seed dormancy. ABA induces production of the second-messenger
cyclic ADP ribose (cADPR), which controls release of intracellular calcium stores
in plants. cADPR also controls intracellular calcium release in the protozoan
parasite T. gondii; however, previous studies have not revealed the molecular
basis of this pathway. We found that addition of exogenous ABA induced formation 
of cADPR in T. gondii, stimulated calcium-dependent protein secretion, and
induced parasite egress from the infected host cell in a density-dependent
manner. Production of endogenous ABA within the parasite was confirmed by
purification (using high-performance liquid chromatography) and analysis (by gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry). Selective disruption of ABA synthesis by the
inhibitor fluridone delayed egress and induced development of the slow-growing,
dormant cyst stage of the parasite. Thus, ABA-mediated calcium signalling
controls the decision between lytic and chronic stage growth, a developmental
switch that is central in pathogenesis and transmission. The pathway for ABA
production was probably acquired with an algal endosymbiont that was retained as 
a non-photosynthetic plastid known as the apicoplast. The plant-like nature of
this pathway may be exploited therapeutically, as shown by the ability of a
specific inhibitor of ABA synthesis to prevent toxoplasmosis in the mouse model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06478 
PMCID: PMC2877910
PMID: 18185591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):202-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06468.

Epigenetic silencing of tumour suppressor gene p15 by its antisense RNA.

Yu W(1), Gius D, Onyango P, Muldoon-Jacobs K, Karp J, Feinberg AP, Cui H.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Epigenetics and Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Tumour suppressor genes (TSGs) inhibiting normal cellular growth are frequently
silenced epigenetically in cancer. DNA methylation is commonly associated with
TSG silencing, yet mutations in the DNA methylation initiation and recognition
machinery in carcinogenesis are unknown. An intriguing possible mechanism for
gene regulation involves widespread non-coding RNAs such as microRNA,
Piwi-interacting RNA and antisense RNAs. Widespread sense-antisense transcripts
have been systematically identified in mammalian cells, and global transcriptome 
analysis shows that up to 70% of transcripts have antisense partners and that
perturbation of antisense RNA can alter the expression of the sense gene. For
example, it has been shown that an antisense transcript not naturally occurring
but induced by genetic mutation leads to gene silencing and DNA methylation,
causing thalassaemia in a patient. Here we show that many TSGs have nearby
antisense RNAs, and we focus on the role of one RNA in silencing p15, a
cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor implicated in leukaemia. We found an inverse
relation between p15 antisense (p15AS) and p15 sense expression in leukaemia. A
p15AS expression construct induced p15 silencing in cis and in trans through
heterochromatin formation but not DNA methylation; the silencing persisted after 
p15AS was turned off, although methylation and heterochromatin inhibitors
reversed this process. The p15AS-induced silencing was Dicer-independent.
Expression of exogenous p15AS in mouse embryonic stem cells caused p15 silencing 
and increased growth, through heterochromatin formation, as well as DNA
methylation after differentiation of the embryonic stem cells. Thus, natural
antisense RNA may be a trigger for heterochromatin formation and DNA methylation 
in TSG silencing in tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06468 
PMCID: PMC2743558
PMID: 18185590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):197-201. doi: 10.1038/nature06476.

Ultra-fine frequency tuning revealed in single neurons of human auditory cortex.

Bitterman Y(1), Mukamel R, Malach R, Fried I, Nelken I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Life Science Institute, Hebrew University,
Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2008 May 6;18(9):R382-5.

Just-noticeable differences of physical parameters are often limited by the
resolution of the peripheral sensory apparatus. Thus, two-point discrimination in
vision is limited by the size of individual photoreceptors. Frequency selectivity
is a basic property of neurons in the mammalian auditory pathway. However,
just-noticeable differences of frequency are substantially smaller than the
bandwidth of the peripheral sensors. Here we report that frequency tuning in
single neurons recorded from human auditory cortex in response to random-chord
stimuli is far narrower than that typically described in any other mammalian
species (besides bats), and substantially exceeds that attributed to the human
auditory periphery. Interestingly, simple spectral filter models failed to
predict the neuronal responses to natural stimuli, including speech and music.
Thus, natural sounds engage additional processing mechanisms beyond the exquisite
frequency tuning probed by the random-chord stimuli.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06476 
PMCID: PMC2676858
PMID: 18185589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):193-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06453.

Identification of the sex genes in an early diverged fungus.

Idnurm A(1), Walton FJ, Floyd A, Heitman J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Sex determination in fungi is controlled by a small, specialized region of the
genome in contrast to the large sex-specific chromosomes of animals and some
plants. Different gene combinations reside at these mating-type (MAT) loci and
confer sexual identity; invariably they encode homeodomain, alpha-box, or high
mobility group (HMG)-domain transcription factors. So far, MAT loci have been
characterized from a single monophyletic clade of fungi, the Dikarya (the
ascomycetes and basidiomycetes), and the ancestral state and evolutionary history
of these loci have remained a mystery. Mating in the basal members of the kingdom
has been less well studied, and even their precise taxonomic inter-relationships 
are still obscure. Here we apply bioinformatic and genetic mapping to identify
the sex-determining (sex) region in Phycomyces blakesleeanus (Zygomycota), which 
represents an early branch within the fungi. Each sex allele contains a single
gene that encodes an HMG-domain protein, implicating the HMG-domain proteins as
an earlier form of fungal MAT loci. Additionally, one allele also contains a copy
of a unique, chromosome-specific repetitive element, suggesting a generalized
mechanism for the earliest steps in the evolution of sex determination and sex
chromosome structure in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06453 
PMID: 18185588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):189-92. doi: 10.1038/nature06455.

The coevolution of choosiness and cooperation.

McNamara JM(1), Barta Z, Fromhage L, Houston AI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of Bristol, University Walk, Bristol BS8
1TW, UK.

Explaining the rise and maintenance of cooperation is central to our
understanding of biological systems and human societies. When an individual's
cooperativeness is used by other individuals as a choice criterion, there can be 
competition to be more generous than others, a situation called competitive
altruism. The evolution of cooperation between non-relatives can then be driven
by a positive feedback between increasing levels of cooperativeness and
choosiness. Here we use evolutionary simulations to show that, in a situation
where individuals have the opportunity to engage in repeated pairwise
interactions, the equilibrium degree of cooperativeness depends critically on the
amount of behavioural variation that is being maintained in the population by
processes such as mutation. Because our model does not invoke complex mechanisms 
such as negotiation behaviour, it can be applied to a wide range of species. The 
results suggest an important role of lifespan in the evolution of cooperation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06455 
PMID: 18185587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):185-8. doi: 10.1038/nature06474.

Machaeridians are Palaeozoic armoured annelids.

Vinther J(1), Van Roy P, Briggs DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, PO Box 208109, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):133-4.

The systematic affinities of several Palaeozoic skeletal taxa were only resolved 
when their soft-tissue morphology was revealed by the discovery of exceptionally 
preserved specimens. The conodonts provide a classic example, their tooth-like
elements having been assigned to various invertebrate and vertebrate groups for
more than 125 years until the discovery of their soft tissues revealed them to be
crown-group vertebrates. Machaeridians, which are virtually ubiquitous as shell
plates in benthic marine shelly assemblages ranging from Early Ordovician (Late
Tremadoc) to Carboniferous, have proved no less enigmatic. The Machaeridia
comprise three distinct families of worm-like animals, united by the possession
of a dorsal skeleton of calcite plates that is rarely found articulated. Since
they were first described 150 years ago machaeridians have been allied with
barnacles, echinoderms, molluscs or annelids. Here we describe a new machaeridian
with preserved soft parts, including parapodia and chaetae, from the Upper
Tremadoc of Morocco, demonstrating the annelid affinity of the group. This
discovery shows that a lineage of annelids evolved a dorsal skeleton of
calcareous plates early in their history; it also resolves the affinities of a
group of problematic Palaeozoic invertebrates previously known only from isolated
elements and occasional skeletal assemblages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06474 
PMID: 18185586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):181-4. doi: 10.1038/nature06424.

Seismic identification of along-axis hydrothermal flow on the East Pacific Rise.

Tolstoy M(1), Waldhauser F, Bohnenstiehl DR, Weekly RT, Kim WY.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, 61 Route 9W,
Palisades, New York 10964-8000, USA. tolstoy@ldeo.columbia.edu

Hydrothermal circulation at the axis of mid-ocean ridges affects the chemistry of
the lithosphere and overlying ocean, supports chemosynthetic biological
communities and is responsible for significant heat transfer from the lithosphere
to the ocean. It is commonly thought that flow in these systems is oriented
across the ridge axis, with recharge occurring along off-axis faults, but the
structure and scale of hydrothermal systems are usually inferred from thermal and
geochemical models constrained by the geophysical setting, rather than direct
observations. The presence of microearthquakes may shed light on hydrothermal
pathways by revealing zones of thermal cracking where cold sea water extracts
heat from hot crustal rocks, as well as regions where magmatic and tectonic
stresses create fractures that increase porosity and permeability. Here we show
that hypocentres beneath a well-studied hydrothermal vent field on the East
Pacific Rise cluster in a vertical pipe-like zone near a small axial
discontinuity, and in a band that lies directly above the axial magma chamber.
The location of the shallow pipe-like cluster relative to the distribution and
temperature of hydrothermal vents along this section of the ridge suggests that
hydrothermal recharge may be concentrated there as a consequence of the
permeability generated by tectonic fracturing. Furthermore, we interpret the band
of seismicity above the magma chamber as a zone of hydrothermal cracking, which
suggests that hydrothermal circulation may be strongly aligned along the ridge
axis. We conclude that models that suggest that hydrothermal cells are oriented
across-axis, with diffuse off-axis recharge zones, may not apply to the
fast-spreading East Pacific Rise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06424 
PMID: 18185585 


926. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):172-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06443.

Direct measurement of critical Casimir forces.

Hertlein C(1), Helden L, Gambassi A, Dietrich S, Bechinger C.

Author information: 
(1)2. Physikalisches Institut, Universität Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):136-7.

When fluctuating fields are confined between two surfaces, long-range forces
arise. A famous example is the quantum-electrodynamical Casimir force that
results from zero-point vacuum fluctuations confined between two conducting metal
plates. A thermodynamic analogue is the critical Casimir force: it acts between
surfaces immersed in a binary liquid mixture close to its critical point and
arises from the confinement of concentration fluctuations within the thin film of
fluid separating the surfaces. So far, all experimental evidence for the
existence of this effect has been indirect. Here we report the direct measurement
of critical Casimir force between a single colloidal sphere and a flat silica
surface immersed in a mixture of water and 2,6-lutidine near its critical point. 
We use total internal reflection microscopy to determine in situ the forces
between the sphere and the surface, with femtonewton resolution. Depending on
whether the adsorption preferences of the sphere and the surface for water and
2,6-lutidine are identical or opposite, we measure attractive and repulsive
forces, respectively, that agree quantitatively with theoretical predictions and 
exhibit exquisite dependence on the temperature of the system. We expect that
these features of critical Casimir forces may result in novel uses of colloids as
model systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06443 
PMID: 18185584 


927. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):168-71. doi: 10.1038/nature06458.

Silicon nanowires as efficient thermoelectric materials.

Boukai AI(1), Bunimovich Y, Tahir-Kheli J, Yu JK, Goddard WA 3rd, Heath JR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, MC 127-72, 1200 East
California Blvd, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):132-3.

Thermoelectric materials interconvert thermal gradients and electric fields for
power generation or for refrigeration. Thermoelectrics currently find only niche 
applications because of their limited efficiency, which is measured by the
dimensionless parameter ZT-a function of the Seebeck coefficient or
thermoelectric power, and of the electrical and thermal conductivities.
Maximizing ZT is challenging because optimizing one physical parameter often
adversely affects another. Several groups have achieved significant improvements 
in ZT through multi-component nanostructured thermoelectrics, such as
Bi(2)Te(3)/Sb(2)Te(3) thin-film superlattices, or embedded PbSeTe quantum dot
superlattices. Here we report efficient thermoelectric performance from the
single-component system of silicon nanowires for cross-sectional areas of 10 nm x
20 nm and 20 nm x 20 nm. By varying the nanowire size and impurity doping levels,
ZT values representing an approximately 100-fold improvement over bulk Si are
achieved over a broad temperature range, including ZT approximately 1 at 200 K.
Independent measurements of the Seebeck coefficient, the electrical conductivity 
and the thermal conductivity, combined with theory, indicate that the improved
efficiency originates from phonon effects. These results are expected to apply to
other classes of semiconductor nanomaterials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06458 
PMID: 18185583 


928. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):163-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06381.

Enhanced thermoelectric performance of rough silicon nanowires.

Hochbaum AI(1), Chen R, Delgado RD, Liang W, Garnett EC, Najarian M, Majumdar A, 
Yang P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):132-3.

Approximately 90 per cent of the world's power is generated by heat engines that 
use fossil fuel combustion as a heat source and typically operate at 30-40 per
cent efficiency, such that roughly 15 terawatts of heat is lost to the
environment. Thermoelectric modules could potentially convert part of this
low-grade waste heat to electricity. Their efficiency depends on the
thermoelectric figure of merit ZT of their material components, which is a
function of the Seebeck coefficient, electrical resistivity, thermal conductivity
and absolute temperature. Over the past five decades it has been challenging to
increase ZT > 1, since the parameters of ZT are generally interdependent. While
nanostructured thermoelectric materials can increase ZT > 1 (refs 2-4), the
materials (Bi, Te, Pb, Sb, and Ag) and processes used are not often easy to scale
to practically useful dimensions. Here we report the electrochemical synthesis of
large-area, wafer-scale arrays of rough Si nanowires that are 20-300 nm in
diameter. These nanowires have Seebeck coefficient and electrical resistivity
values that are the same as doped bulk Si, but those with diameters of about 50
nm exhibit 100-fold reduction in thermal conductivity, yielding ZT = 0.6 at room 
temperature. For such nanowires, the lattice contribution to thermal conductivity
approaches the amorphous limit for Si, which cannot be explained by current
theories. Although bulk Si is a poor thermoelectric material, by greatly reducing
thermal conductivity without much affecting the Seebeck coefficient and
electrical resistivity, Si nanowire arrays show promise as high-performance,
scalable thermoelectric materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06381 
PMID: 18185582 


929. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):159-62. doi: 10.1038/nature06490.

An asymmetric distribution of positrons in the Galactic disk revealed by
gamma-rays.

Weidenspointner G(1), Skinner G, Jean P, Knödlseder J, von Ballmoos P, Bignami G,
Diehl R, Strong AW, Cordier B, Schanne S, Winkler C.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Etude Spatiale des Rayonnements, CNRS/UPS, BP 44346, Toulouse Cedex
4, France. Georg.Weidenspointner@hll.mpg.de

Gamma-ray line radiation at 511 keV is the signature of electron-positron
annihilation. Such radiation has been known for 30 years to come from the general
direction of the Galactic Centre, but the origin of the positrons has remained a 
mystery. Stellar nucleosynthesis, accreting compact objects, and even the
annihilation of exotic dark-matter particles have all been suggested. Here we
report a distinct asymmetry in the 511-keV line emission coming from the inner
Galactic disk ( approximately 10-50 degrees from the Galactic Centre). This
asymmetry resembles an asymmetry in the distribution of low mass X-ray binaries
with strong emission at photon energies >20 keV ('hard' LMXBs), indicating that
they may be the dominant origin of the positrons. Although it had long been
suspected that electron-positron pair plasmas may exist in X-ray binaries, it was
not evident that many of the positrons could escape to lose energy and ultimately
annihilate with electrons in the interstellar medium and thus lead to the
emission of a narrow 511-keV line. For these models, our result implies that up
to a few times 10(41) positrons escape per second from a typical hard LMXB.
Positron production at this level from hard LMXBs in the Galactic bulge would
reduce (and possibly eliminate) the need for more exotic explanations, such as
those involving dark matter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06490 
PMID: 18185581 


930. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):147-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06487.

Endogenous human microRNAs that suppress breast cancer metastasis.

Tavazoie SF(1), Alarcón C, Oskarsson T, Padua D, Wang Q, Bos PD, Gerald WL,
Massagué J.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10021, USA.

A search for general regulators of cancer metastasis has yielded a set of
microRNAs for which expression is specifically lost as human breast cancer cells 
develop metastatic potential. Here we show that restoring the expression of these
microRNAs in malignant cells suppresses lung and bone metastasis by human cancer 
cells in vivo. Of these microRNAs, miR-126 restoration reduces overall tumour
growth and proliferation, whereas miR-335 inhibits metastatic cell invasion.
miR-335 regulates a set of genes whose collective expression in a large cohort of
human tumours is associated with risk of distal metastasis. miR-335 suppresses
metastasis and migration through targeting of the progenitor cell transcription
factor SOX4 and extracellular matrix component tenascin C. Expression of miR-126 
and miR-335 is lost in the majority of primary breast tumours from patients who
relapse, and the loss of expression of either microRNA is associated with poor
distal metastasis-free survival. miR-335 and miR-126 are thus identified as
metastasis suppressor microRNAs in human breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06487 
PMCID: PMC2782491
PMID: 18185580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):141-6. Epub 2007 Dec 23.

Reprogramming of human somatic cells to pluripotency with defined factors.

Park IH(1), Zhao R, West JA, Yabuuchi A, Huo H, Ince TA, Lerou PH, Lensch MW,
Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston and Dana
Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):135-6.

Pluripotency pertains to the cells of early embryos that can generate all of the 
tissues in the organism. Embryonic stem cells are embryo-derived cell lines that 
retain pluripotency and represent invaluable tools for research into the
mechanisms of tissue formation. Recently, murine fibroblasts have been
reprogrammed directly to pluripotency by ectopic expression of four transcription
factors (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and Myc) to yield induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells.
Using these same factors, we have derived iPS cells from fetal, neonatal and
adult human primary cells, including dermal fibroblasts isolated from a skin
biopsy of a healthy research subject. Human iPS cells resemble embryonic stem
cells in morphology and gene expression and in the capacity to form teratomas in 
immune-deficient mice. These data demonstrate that defined factors can
reprogramme human cells to pluripotency, and establish a method whereby
patient-specific cells might be established in culture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06534 
PMID: 18157115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):176-80. Epub 2007 Dec 12.

Crude-oil biodegradation via methanogenesis in subsurface petroleum reservoirs.

Jones DM(1), Head IM, Gray ND, Adams JJ, Rowan AK, Aitken CM, Bennett B, Huang H,
Brown A, Bowler BF, Oldenburg T, Erdmann M, Larter SR.

Author information: 
(1)School of Civil Engineering and Geosciences, University of Newcastle,
Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 7RU, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Feb 14;451(7180):768.

Biodegradation of crude oil in subsurface petroleum reservoirs has adversely
affected the majority of the world's oil, making recovery and refining of that
oil more costly. The prevalent occurrence of biodegradation in shallow subsurface
petroleum reservoirs has been attributed to aerobic bacterial hydrocarbon
degradation stimulated by surface recharge of oxygen-bearing meteoric waters.
This hypothesis is empirically supported by the likelihood of encountering
biodegraded oils at higher levels of degradation in reservoirs near the surface. 
More recent findings, however, suggest that anaerobic degradation processes
dominate subsurface sedimentary environments, despite slow reaction kinetics and 
uncertainty as to the actual degradation pathways occurring in oil reservoirs.
Here we use laboratory experiments in microcosms monitoring the hydrocarbon
composition of degraded oils and generated gases, together with the carbon
isotopic compositions of gas and oil samples taken at wellheads and a Rayleigh
isotope fractionation box model, to elucidate the probable mechanisms of
hydrocarbon degradation in reservoirs. We find that crude-oil hydrocarbon
degradation under methanogenic conditions in the laboratory mimics the
characteristic sequential removal of compound classes seen in reservoir-degraded 
petroleum. The initial preferential removal of n-alkanes generates close to
stoichiometric amounts of methane, principally by hydrogenotrophic
methanogenesis. Our data imply a common methanogenic biodegradation mechanism in 
subsurface degraded oil reservoirs, resulting in consistent patterns of
hydrocarbon alteration, and the common association of dry gas with severely
degraded oils observed worldwide. Energy recovery from oilfields in the form of
methane, based on accelerating natural methanogenic biodegradation, may offer a
route to economic production of difficult-to-recover energy from oilfields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06484 
PMID: 18075503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):153-8. Epub 2007 Nov 28.

RNA-mediated epigenetic programming of a genome-rearrangement pathway.

Nowacki M(1), Vijayan V, Zhou Y, Schotanus K, Doak TG, Landweber LF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 10;451(7175):131-2.

Genome-wide DNA rearrangements occur in many eukaryotes but are most exaggerated 
in ciliates, making them ideal model systems for epigenetic phenomena. During
development of the somatic macronucleus, Oxytricha trifallax destroys 95% of its 
germ line, severely fragmenting its chromosomes, and then unscrambles hundreds of
thousands of remaining fragments by permutation or inversion. Here we demonstrate
that DNA or RNA templates can orchestrate these genome rearrangements in
Oxytricha, supporting an epigenetic model for sequence-dependent comparison
between germline and somatic genomes. A complete RNA cache of the maternal
somatic genome may be available at a specific stage during development to provide
a template for correct and precise DNA rearrangement. We show the existence of
maternal RNA templates that could guide DNA assembly, and that disruption of
specific RNA molecules disables rearrangement of the corresponding gene.
Injection of artificial templates reprogrammes the DNA rearrangement pathway,
suggesting that RNA molecules guide genome rearrangement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06452 
PMCID: PMC2647009
PMID: 18046331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature06415.

Structure of the sulphiredoxin-peroxiredoxin complex reveals an essential repair 
embrace.

Jönsson TJ(1), Johnson LC, Lowther WT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Structural Biology and Department of Biochemistry, Wake Forest
University School of Medicine, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, North
Carolina 27157, USA.

Typical 2-Cys peroxiredoxins (Prxs) have an important role in regulating hydrogen
peroxide-mediated cell signalling. In this process, Prxs can become inactivated
through the hyperoxidation of an active site Cys residue to Cys sulphinic acid.
The unique repair of this moiety by sulphiredoxin (Srx) restores peroxidase
activity and terminates the signal. The hyperoxidized form of Prx exists as a
stable decameric structure with each active site buried. Therefore, it is unclear
how Srx can access the sulphinic acid moiety. Here we present the 2.6 A crystal
structure of the human Srx-PrxI complex. This complex reveals the complete
unfolding of the carboxy terminus of Prx, and its unexpected packing onto the
backside of Srx away from the Srx active site. Binding studies and activity
analyses of site-directed mutants at this interface show that the interaction is 
required for repair to occur. Moreover, rearrangements in the Prx active site
lead to a juxtaposition of the Prx Gly-Gly-Leu-Gly and Srx ATP-binding motifs,
providing a structural basis for the first step of the catalytic mechanism. The
results also suggest that the observed interactions may represent a common mode
for other proteins to bind to Prxs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06415 
PMCID: PMC2646140
PMID: 18172504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature06413.

Structure of a tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase splicing factor bound to a group I intron 
RNA.

Paukstelis PJ(1), Chen JH, Chase E, Lambowitz AM, Golden BL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Department of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, and Section of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

The 'RNA world' hypothesis holds that during evolution the structural and
enzymatic functions initially served by RNA were assumed by proteins, leading to 
the latter's domination of biological catalysis. This progression can still be
seen in modern biology, where ribozymes, such as the ribosome and RNase P, have
evolved into protein-dependent RNA catalysts ('RNPzymes'). Similarly, group I
introns use RNA-catalysed splicing reactions, but many function as RNPzymes bound
to proteins that stabilize their catalytically active RNA structure. One such
protein, the Neurospora crassa mitochondrial tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase (TyrRS;
CYT-18), is bifunctional and both aminoacylates mitochondrial tRNA(Tyr) and
promotes the splicing of mitochondrial group I introns. Here we determine a 4.5-A
co-crystal structure of the Twort orf142-I2 group I intron ribozyme bound to
splicing-active, carboxy-terminally truncated CYT-18. The structure shows that
the group I intron binds across the two subunits of the homodimeric protein with 
a newly evolved RNA-binding surface distinct from that which binds tRNA(Tyr).
This RNA binding surface provides an extended scaffold for the phosphodiester
backbone of the conserved catalytic core of the intron RNA, allowing the protein 
to promote the splicing of a wide variety of group I introns. The group I
intron-binding surface includes three small insertions and additional structural 
adaptations relative to non-splicing bacterial TyrRSs, indicating a multistep
adaptation for splicing function. The co-crystal structure provides insight into 
how CYT-18 promotes group I intron splicing, how it evolved to have this
function, and how proteins could have incrementally replaced RNA structures
during the transition from an RNA world to an RNP world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06413 
PMID: 18172503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature06454.

Distinct domains of tRNA synthetase recognize the same base pair.

Beebe K(1), Mock M, Merriman E, Schimmel P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Chemistry and The Skaggs Institute for
Chemical Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, 
La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Synthesis of proteins containing errors (mistranslation) is prevented by
aminoacyl transfer RNA synthetases through their accurate aminoacylation of
cognate tRNAs and their ability to correct occasional errors of aminoacylation by
editing reactions. A principal source of mistranslation comes from mistaking
glycine or serine for alanine, which can lead to serious cell and animal
pathologies, including neurodegeneration. A single specific G.U base pair
(G3.U70) marks a tRNA for aminoacylation by alanyl-tRNA synthetase.
Mistranslation occurs when glycine or serine is joined to the G3.U70-containing
tRNAs, and is prevented by the editing activity that clears the mischarged amino 
acid. Previously it was assumed that the specificity for recognition of tRNA(Ala)
for editing was provided by the same structural determinants as used for
aminoacylation. Here we show that the editing site of alanyl-tRNA synthetase, as 
an artificial recombinant fragment, targets mischarged tRNA(Ala) using a
structural motif unrelated to that for aminoacylation so that, remarkably, two
motifs (one for aminoacylation and one for editing) in the same enzyme
independently can provide determinants for tRNA(Ala) recognition. The structural 
motif for editing is also found naturally in genome-encoded protein fragments
that are widely distributed in evolution. These also recognize mischarged
tRNA(Ala). Thus, through evolution, three different complexes with the same tRNA 
can guard against mistaking glycine or serine for alanine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06454 
PMID: 18172502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06450.

Non-fermentative pathways for synthesis of branched-chain higher alcohols as
biofuels.

Atsumi S(1), Hanai T, Liao JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of California,
Los Angeles, 5531 Boelter Hall, 420 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA.

Global energy and environmental problems have stimulated increased efforts
towards synthesizing biofuels from renewable resources. Compared to the
traditional biofuel, ethanol, higher alcohols offer advantages as gasoline
substitutes because of their higher energy density and lower hygroscopicity. In
addition, branched-chain alcohols have higher octane numbers compared with their 
straight-chain counterparts. However, these alcohols cannot be synthesized
economically using native organisms. Here we present a metabolic engineering
approach using Escherichia coli to produce higher alcohols including isobutanol, 
1-butanol, 2-methyl-1-butanol, 3-methyl-1-butanol and 2-phenylethanol from
glucose, a renewable carbon source. This strategy uses the host's highly active
amino acid biosynthetic pathway and diverts its 2-keto acid intermediates for
alcohol synthesis. In particular, we have achieved high-yield, high-specificity
production of isobutanol from glucose. The strategy enables the exploration of
biofuels beyond those naturally accumulated to high quantities in microbial
fermentation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06450 
PMID: 18172501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):81-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06420.

Poly(ADP-ribose)-binding zinc finger motifs in DNA repair/checkpoint proteins.

Ahel I(1), Ahel D, Matsusaka T, Clark AJ, Pines J, Boulton SJ, West SC.

Author information: 
(1)Genetic Recombination and, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, Clare
Hall Laboratories, South Mimms, Herts EN6 3LD, UK.

Post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins plays an important part in
mediating protein interactions and/or the recruitment of specific protein
targets. PTM can be mediated by the addition of functional groups (for example,
acetylation or phosphorylation), peptides (for example, ubiquitylation or
sumoylation), or nucleotides (for example, poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation).
Poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation often involves the addition of long chains of ADP-ribose
units, linked by glycosidic ribose-ribose bonds, and is critical for a wide range
of processes, including DNA repair, regulation of chromosome structure,
transcriptional regulation, mitosis and apoptosis. Here we identify a novel
poly(ADP-ribose)-binding zinc finger (PBZ) motif in a number of eukaryotic
proteins involved in the DNA damage response and checkpoint regulation. The PBZ
motif is also required for post-translational poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. We
demonstrate interaction of poly(ADP-ribose) with this motif in two representative
human proteins, APLF (aprataxin PNK-like factor) and CHFR (checkpoint protein
with FHA and RING domains), and show that the actions of CHFR in the antephase
checkpoint are abrogated by mutations in PBZ or by inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose)
synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06420 
PMID: 18172500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):76-80. doi: 10.1038/nature06412.

NUMB controls p53 tumour suppressor activity.

Colaluca IN(1), Tosoni D, Nuciforo P, Senic-Matuglia F, Galimberti V, Viale G,
Pece S, Di Fiore PP.

Author information: 
(1)IFOM, the FIRC Institute for Molecular Oncology Foundation, Via Adamello 16,
20139, Milan, Italy.

NUMB is a cell fate determinant, which, by asymmetrically partitioning at
mitosis, controls cell fate choices by antagonising the activity of the plasma
membrane receptor of the NOTCH family. NUMB is also an endocytic protein, and the
NOTCH-NUMB counteraction has been linked to this function. There might be,
however, additional functions of NUMB, as witnessed by its proposed role as a
tumour suppressor in breast cancer. Here we describe a previously unknown
function for human NUMB as a regulator of tumour protein p53 (also known as
TP53). NUMB enters in a tricomplex with p53 and the E3 ubiquitin ligase HDM2
(also known as MDM2), thereby preventing ubiquitination and degradation of p53.
This results in increased p53 protein levels and activity, and in regulation of
p53-dependent phenotypes. In breast cancers there is frequent loss of NUMB
expression. We show that, in primary breast tumour cells, this event causes
decreased p53 levels and increased chemoresistance. In breast cancers, loss of
NUMB expression causes increased activity of the receptor NOTCH. Thus, in these
cancers, a single event-loss of NUMB expression-determines activation of an
oncogene (NOTCH) and attenuation of the p53 tumour suppressor pathway.
Biologically, this results in an aggressive tumour phenotype, as witnessed by
findings that NUMB-defective breast tumours display poor prognosis. Our results
uncover a previously unknown tumour suppressor circuitry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06412 
PMID: 18172499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):73-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06446.

Trisomy represses Apc(Min)-mediated tumours in mouse models of Down's syndrome.

Sussan TE(1), Yang A, Li F, Ostrowski MC, Reeves RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and The Institute for Genetic Medicine, The Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):21-2.

Epidemiological studies spanning more than 50 yr reach conflicting conclusions as
to whether there is a lower incidence of solid tumours in people with trisomy 21 
(Down's syndrome). We used mouse models of Down's syndrome and of cancer in a
biological approach to investigate the relationship between trisomy and the
incidence of intestinal tumours. Apc(Min)-mediated tumour number was determined
in aneuploid mouse models Ts65Dn, Ts1Rhr and Ms1Rhr. Trisomy for orthologues of
about half of the genes on chromosome 21 (Hsa21) in Ts65Dn mice or just 33 of
these genes in Ts1Rhr mice resulted in a significant reduction in the number of
intestinal tumours. In Ms1Rhr, segmental monosomy for the same 33 genes that are 
triplicated in Ts1Rhr resulted in an increased number of tumours. Further studies
demonstrated that the Ets2 gene contributed most of the dosage-sensitive effect
on intestinal tumour number. The action of Ets2 as a repressor when it is
overexpressed differs from tumour suppression, which requires normal gene
function to prevent cellular transformation. Upregulation of Ets2 and,
potentially, other genes involved in this kind of protective effect may provide a
prophylactic effect in all individuals, regardless of ploidy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06446 
PMID: 18172498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):69-72. doi: 10.1038/nature06414.

TRPC channel activation by extracellular thioredoxin.

Xu SZ(1), Sukumar P, Zeng F, Li J, Jairaman A, English A, Naylor J, Ciurtin C,
Majeed Y, Milligan CJ, Bahnasi YM, Al-Shawaf E, Porter KE, Jiang LH, Emery P,
Sivaprasadarao A, Beech DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Membrane and Systems Biology, Garstang Building, Faculty of
Biological Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.

Mammalian homologues of Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential
(TRP) are a large family of multimeric cation channels that act, or putatively
act, as sensors of one or more chemical factor. Major research objectives are the
identification of endogenous activators and the determination of cellular and
tissue functions of these channels. Here we show the activation of TRPC5
(canonical TRP 5) homomultimeric and TRPC5-TRPC1 heteromultimeric channels by
extracellular reduced thioredoxin, which acts by breaking a disulphide bridge in 
the predicted extracellular loop adjacent to the ion-selectivity filter of TRPC5.
Thioredoxin is an endogenous redox protein with established intracellular
functions, but it is also secreted and its extracellular targets are largely
unknown. Particularly high extracellular concentrations of thioredoxin are
apparent in rheumatoid arthritis, an inflammatory joint disease that disables
millions of people worldwide. We show that TRPC5 and TRPC1 are expressed in
secretory fibroblast-like synoviocytes from patients with rheumatoid arthritis,
that endogenous TRPC5-TRPC1 channels of the cells are activated by reduced
thioredoxin, and that blockade of the channels enhances secretory activity and
prevents the suppression of secretion by thioredoxin. The data indicate the
presence of a previously unrecognized ion-channel activation mechanism that
couples extracellular thioredoxin to cell function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06414 
PMCID: PMC2645077
PMID: 18172497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):57-60. doi: 10.1038/nature06440.

Effects of acoustic waves on stick-slip in granular media and implications for
earthquakes.

Johnson PA(1), Savage H, Knuth M, Gomberg J, Marone C.

Author information: 
(1)Geophysics Group EES-11, Los Alamos National Laboratory of the University of
California, MS D443, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA. paj@lanl.gov

It remains unknown how the small strains induced by seismic waves can trigger
earthquakes at large distances, in some cases thousands of kilometres from the
triggering earthquake, with failure often occurring long after the waves have
passed. Earthquake nucleation is usually observed to take place at depths of
10-20 km, and so static overburden should be large enough to inhibit triggering
by seismic-wave stress perturbations. To understand the physics of dynamic
triggering better, as well as the influence of dynamic stressing on earthquake
recurrence, we have conducted laboratory studies of stick-slip in granular media 
with and without applied acoustic vibration. Glass beads were used to simulate
granular fault zone material, sheared under constant normal stress, and subject
to transient or continuous perturbation by acoustic waves. Here we show that
small-magnitude failure events, corresponding to triggered aftershocks, occur
when applied sound-wave amplitudes exceed several microstrain. These events are
frequently delayed or occur as part of a cascade of small events. Vibrations also
cause large slip events to be disrupted in time relative to those without wave
perturbation. The effects are observed for many large-event cycles after
vibrations cease, indicating a strain memory in the granular material. Dynamic
stressing of tectonic faults may play a similar role in determining the
complexity of earthquake recurrence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06440 
PMID: 18172496 


943. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):53-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06502.

Vertical structure of recent Arctic warming.

Graversen RG(1), Mauritsen T, Tjernström M, Källén E, Svensson G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Meteorology, Stockholm University, S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
rune@misu.su.se

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):E1-2; discussion E4-5.
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):E3-4; discussion E4-5.
    Nature. 2008 Sep 11;455(7210):E2-3; discussion E4-5.

Near-surface warming in the Arctic has been almost twice as large as the global
average over recent decades-a phenomenon that is known as the 'Arctic
amplification'. The underlying causes of this temperature amplification remain
uncertain. The reduction in snow and ice cover that has occurred over recent
decades may have played a role. Climate model experiments indicate that when
global temperature rises, Arctic snow and ice cover retreats, causing excessive
polar warming. Reduction of the snow and ice cover causes albedo changes, and
increased refreezing of sea ice during the cold season and decreases in sea-ice
thickness both increase heat flux from the ocean to the atmosphere. Changes in
oceanic and atmospheric circulation, as well as cloud cover, have also been
proposed to cause Arctic temperature amplification. Here we examine the vertical 
structure of temperature change in the Arctic during the late twentieth century
using reanalysis data. We find evidence for temperature amplification well above 
the surface. Snow and ice feedbacks cannot be the main cause of the warming aloft
during the greater part of the year, because these feedbacks are expected to
primarily affect temperatures in the lowermost part of the atmosphere, resulting 
in a pattern of warming that we only observe in spring. A significant proportion 
of the observed temperature amplification must therefore be explained by
mechanisms that induce warming above the lowermost part of the atmosphere. We
regress the Arctic temperature field on the atmospheric energy transport into the
Arctic and find that, in the summer half-year, a significant proportion of the
vertical structure of warming can be explained by changes in this variable. We
conclude that changes in atmospheric heat transport may be an important cause of 
the recent Arctic temperature amplification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06502 
PMID: 18172495 


944. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):49-52. doi: 10.1038/nature06444.

Net carbon dioxide losses of northern ecosystems in response to autumn warming.

Piao S(1), Ciais P, Friedlingstein P, Peylin P, Reichstein M, Luyssaert S,
Margolis H, Fang J, Barr A, Chen A, Grelle A, Hollinger DY, Laurila T, Lindroth
A, Richardson AD, Vesala T.

Author information: 
(1)LSCE, UMR CEA-CNRS, Bâtiment 709, CE, L'Orme des Merisiers, F-91191
Gif-sur-Yvette, France. slpiao@lsce.ipsl.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):26-7.

The carbon balance of terrestrial ecosystems is particularly sensitive to
climatic changes in autumn and spring, with spring and autumn temperatures over
northern latitudes having risen by about 1.1 degrees C and 0.8 degrees C,
respectively, over the past two decades. A simultaneous greening trend has also
been observed, characterized by a longer growing season and greater
photosynthetic activity. These observations have led to speculation that spring
and autumn warming could enhance carbon sequestration and extend the period of
net carbon uptake in the future. Here we analyse interannual variations in
atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration data and ecosystem carbon dioxide
fluxes. We find that atmospheric records from the past 20 years show a trend
towards an earlier autumn-to-winter carbon dioxide build-up, suggesting a shorter
net carbon uptake period. This trend cannot be explained by changes in
atmospheric transport alone and, together with the ecosystem flux data, suggest
increasing carbon losses in autumn. We use a process-based terrestrial biosphere 
model and satellite vegetation greenness index observations to investigate
further the observed seasonal response of northern ecosystems to autumnal
warming. We find that both photosynthesis and respiration increase during autumn 
warming, but the increase in respiration is greater. In contrast, warming
increases photosynthesis more than respiration in spring. Our simulations and
observations indicate that northern terrestrial ecosystems may currently lose
carbon dioxide in response to autumn warming, with a sensitivity of about 0.2 PgC
degrees C(-1), offsetting 90% of the increased carbon dioxide uptake during
spring. If future autumn warming occurs at a faster rate than in spring, the
ability of northern ecosystems to sequester carbon may be diminished earlier than
previously suggested.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06444 
PMID: 18172494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):42-5. doi: 10.1038/nature06433.

Magnetic monopoles in spin ice.

Castelnovo C(1), Moessner R, Sondhi SL.

Author information: 
(1)Rudolf Peierls Centre for Theoretical Physics, Oxford University, Oxford OX1
3NP, UK. castel@physics.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):22-3.

Electrically charged particles, such as the electron, are ubiquitous. In
contrast, no elementary particles with a net magnetic charge have ever been
observed, despite intensive and prolonged searches (see ref. 1 for example). We
pursue an alternative strategy, namely that of realizing them not as elementary
but rather as emergent particles-that is, as manifestations of the correlations
present in a strongly interacting many-body system. The most prominent examples
of emergent quasiparticles are the ones with fractional electric charge e/3 in
quantum Hall physics. Here we propose that magnetic monopoles emerge in a class
of exotic magnets known collectively as spin ice: the dipole moment of the
underlying electronic degrees of freedom fractionalises into monopoles. This
would account for a mysterious phase transition observed experimentally in spin
ice in a magnetic field, which is a liquid-gas transition of the magnetic
monopoles. These monopoles can also be detected by other means, for example, in
an experiment modelled after the Stanford magnetic monopole search.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06433 
PMID: 18172493 


946. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):38-41. doi: 10.1038/nature06426.

A young massive planet in a star-disk system.

Setiawan J(1), Henning T, Launhardt R, Müller A, Weise P, Kürster M.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Heidelberg, D-69117, Germany.

There is a general consensus that planets form within disks of dust and gas
around newly born stars. Details of their formation process, however, are still a
matter of ongoing debate. The timescale of planet formation remains unclear, so
the detection of planets around young stars with protoplanetary disks is
potentially of great interest. Hitherto, no such planet has been found. Here we
report the detection of a planet of mass (9.8+/-3.3)M(Jupiter) around TW Hydrae
(TW Hya), a nearby young star with an age of only 8-10 Myr that is surrounded by 
a well-studied circumstellar disk. It orbits the star with a period of 3.56 days 
at 0.04 au, inside the inner rim of the disk. This demonstrates that planets can 
form within 10 Myr, before the disk has been dissipated by stellar winds and
radiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06426 
PMID: 18172492 


947. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):61-4.

Sparse optical microstimulation in barrel cortex drives learned behaviour in
freely moving mice.

Huber D(1), Petreanu L, Ghitani N, Ranade S, Hromádka T, Mainen Z, Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia Farm Research Campus, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147, USA.

Electrical microstimulation can establish causal links between the activity of
groups of neurons and perceptual and cognitive functions. However, the number and
identities of neurons microstimulated, as well as the number of action potentials
evoked, are difficult to ascertain. To address these issues we introduced the
light-gated algal channel channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) specifically into a small
fraction of layer 2/3 neurons of the mouse primary somatosensory cortex. ChR2
photostimulation in vivo reliably generated stimulus-locked action potentials at 
frequencies up to 50 Hz. Here we show that naive mice readily learned to detect
brief trains of action potentials (five light pulses, 1 ms, 20 Hz). After
training, mice could detect a photostimulus firing a single action potential in
approximately 300 neurons. Even fewer neurons (approximately 60) were required
for longer stimuli (five action potentials, 250 ms). Our results show that
perceptual decisions and learning can be driven by extremely brief epochs of
cortical activity in a sparse subset of supragranular cortical pyramidal neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06445 
PMCID: PMC3425380
PMID: 18094685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):65-8. Epub 2007 Dec 19.

Behavioural report of single neuron stimulation in somatosensory cortex.

Houweling AR(1), Brecht M.

Author information: 
(1)Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience and Humboldt University
Berlin, Philippstrasse 13, House 6, 10115 Berlin, Germany.
arthur.houweling@bccn-berlin.de

Understanding how neural activity in sensory cortices relates to perception is a 
central theme of neuroscience. Action potentials of sensory cortical neurons can 
be strongly correlated to properties of sensory stimuli and reflect the
subjective judgements of an individual about stimuli. Microstimulation
experiments have established a direct link from sensory activity to behaviour,
suggesting that small neuronal populations can influence sensory decisions.
However, microstimulation does not allow identification and quantification of the
stimulated cellular elements. The sensory impact of individual cortical neurons
therefore remains unknown. Here we show that stimulation of single neurons in
somatosensory cortex affects behavioural responses in a detection task. We
trained rats to respond to microstimulation of barrel cortex at low current
intensities. We then initiated short trains of action potentials in single
neurons by juxtacellular stimulation. Animals responded significantly more often 
in single-cell stimulation trials than in catch trials without stimulation.
Stimulation effects varied greatly between cells, and on average in 5% of trials 
a response was induced. Whereas stimulation of putative excitatory neurons led to
weak biases towards responding, stimulation of putative inhibitory neurons led to
more variable and stronger sensory effects. Reaction times for single-cell
stimulation were long and variable. Our results demonstrate that single neuron
activity can cause a change in the animal's detection behaviour, suggesting a
much sparser cortical code for sensations than previously anticipated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06447 
PMID: 18094684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):46-8.

Three-dimensional atomic-scale structure of size-selected gold nanoclusters.

Li ZY(1), Young NP, Di Vece M, Palomba S, Palmer RE, Bleloch AL, Curley BC,
Johnston RL, Jiang J, Yuan J.

Author information: 
(1)Nanoscale Physics Research Laboratory, School of Physics and Astronomy,
University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK. ziyouli@nprl.ph.bham.ac.uk

An unambiguous determination of the three-dimensional structure of nanoparticles 
is challenging. Electron tomography requires a series of images taken for many
different specimen orientations. This approach is ideal for stable and stationary
structures. But ultrasmall nanoparticles are intrinsically structurally unstable 
and may interact with the incident electron beam, constraining the electron beam 
density that can be used and the duration of the observation. Here we use
aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy, coupled with
simple imaging simulation, to determine with atomic resolution the size,
three-dimensional shape, orientation and atomic arrangement of size-selected gold
nanoclusters that are preformed in the gas phase and soft-landed on an amorphous 
carbon substrate. The structures of gold nanoclusters containing 3096 atoms can
be identified with either Ino-decahedral, cuboctahedral or icosahedral
geometries. Comparison with theoretical modelling of the system suggests that the
structures are consistent with energetic considerations. The discovery that
nanoscale gold particles function as active and selective catalysts for a variety
of important chemical reactions has provoked much research interest in recent
years. We believe that the detailed structure information we provide will help to
unravel the role of these nanoclusters in size- and structure-specific catalytic 
reactions. We note that the technique will be of use in investigations of other
supported ultrasmall metal cluster systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06470 
PMID: 18066049 


950. Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):33-7.

A receptor that mediates the post-mating switch in Drosophila reproductive
behaviour.

Yapici N(1), Kim YJ, Ribeiro C, Dickson BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP), Dr. Bohr-Gasse 7, A-1030
Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2008 Jan 3;451(7174):24-5.

Mating in many species induces a dramatic switch in female reproductive
behaviour. In most insects, this switch is triggered by factors present in the
male's seminal fluid. How these factors exert such profound effects in females is
unknown. Here we identify a receptor for the Drosophila melanogaster sex peptide 
(SP, also known as Acp70A), the primary trigger of post-mating responses in this 
species. Females that lack the sex peptide receptor (SPR, also known as CG16752),
either entirely or only in the nervous system, fail to respond to SP and continue
to show virgin behaviours even after mating. SPR is expressed in the female's
reproductive tract and central nervous system. The behavioural functions of SPR
map to the subset of neurons that also express the fruitless gene, a key
determinant of sex-specific reproductive behaviour. SPR is highly conserved
across insects, opening up the prospect of new strategies to control the
reproductive and host-seeking behaviours of agricultural pests and human disease 
vectors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06483 
PMID: 18066048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

