
1. Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):704-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08516. Epub 2009 Oct 7.

Origins and functional impact of copy number variation in the human genome.

Conrad DF(1), Pinto D, Redon R, Feuk L, Gokcumen O, Zhang Y, Aerts J, Andrews TD,
Barnes C, Campbell P, Fitzgerald T, Hu M, Ihm CH, Kristiansson K, Macarthur DG,
Macdonald JR, Onyiah I, Pang AW, Robson S, Stirrups K, Valsesia A, Walter K, Wei 
J; Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, Tyler-Smith C, Carter NP, Lee C,
Scherer SW, Hurles ME.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge, CB10 1SA UK.

Structural variations of DNA greater than 1 kilobase in size account for most
bases that vary among human genomes, but are still relatively under-ascertained. 
Here we use tiling oligonucleotide microarrays, comprising 42 million probes, to 
generate a comprehensive map of 11,700 copy number variations (CNVs) greater than
443 base pairs, of which most (8,599) have been validated independently. For
4,978 of these CNVs, we generated reference genotypes from 450 individuals of
European, African or East Asian ancestry. The predominant mutational mechanisms
differ among CNV size classes. Retrotransposition has duplicated and inserted
some coding and non-coding DNA segments randomly around the genome. Furthermore, 
by correlation with known trait-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs), we identified 30 loci with CNVs that are candidates for influencing
disease susceptibility. Despite this, having assessed the completeness of our map
and the patterns of linkage disequilibrium between CNVs and SNPs, we conclude
that, for complex traits, the heritability void left by genome-wide association
studies will not be accounted for by common CNVs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08516 
PMCID: PMC3330748
PMID: 19812545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2010 Feb 4;463(7281):666-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08689. Epub 2009 Dec 6.

Large, rare chromosomal deletions associated with severe early-onset obesity.

Bochukova EG(1), Huang N, Keogh J, Henning E, Purmann C, Blaszczyk K, Saeed S,
Hamilton-Shield J, Clayton-Smith J, O'Rahilly S, Hurles ME, Farooqi IS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Institute of
Metabolic Science, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2010 Dec;78(6):521-3.

Obesity is a highly heritable and genetically heterogeneous disorder. Here we
investigated the contribution of copy number variation to obesity in 300
Caucasian patients with severe early-onset obesity, 143 of whom also had
developmental delay. Large (>500 kilobases), rare (<1%) deletions were
significantly enriched in patients compared to 7,366 controls (P < 0.001). We
identified several rare copy number variants that were recurrent in patients but 
absent or at much lower prevalence in controls. We identified five patients with 
overlapping deletions on chromosome 16p11.2 that were found in 2 out of 7,366
controls (P < 5 x 10(-5)). In three patients the deletion co-segregated with
severe obesity. Two patients harboured a larger de novo 16p11.2 deletion,
extending through a 593-kilobase region previously associated with autism and
mental retardation; both of these patients had mild developmental delay in
addition to severe obesity. In an independent sample of 1,062 patients with
severe obesity alone, the smaller 16p11.2 deletion was found in an additional two
patients. All 16p11.2 deletions encompass several genes but include SH2B1, which 
is known to be involved in leptin and insulin signalling. Deletion carriers
exhibited hyperphagia and severe insulin resistance disproportionate for the
degree of obesity. We show that copy number variation contributes significantly
to the genetic architecture of human obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08689 
PMCID: PMC3108883
PMID: 19966786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):540-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08636. Epub 2009 Dec 20.

Innate production of T(H)2 cytokines by adipose tissue-associated
c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) lymphoid cells.

Moro K(1), Yamada T, Tanabe M, Takeuchi T, Ikawa T, Kawamoto H, Furusawa J,
Ohtani M, Fujii H, Koyasu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Keio University School of Medicine,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 28;463(7280):434-5.

Innate immune responses are important in combating various microbes during the
early phases of infection. Natural killer (NK) cells are innate lymphocytes that,
unlike T and B lymphocytes, do not express antigen receptors but rapidly exhibit 
cytotoxic activities against virus-infected cells and produce various cytokines. 
Here we report a new type of innate lymphocyte present in a novel lymphoid
structure associated with adipose tissues in the peritoneal cavity. These cells
do not express lineage (Lin) markers but do express c-Kit, Sca-1 (also known as
Ly6a), IL7R and IL33R. Similar lymphoid clusters were found in both human and
mouse mesentery and we term this tissue 'FALC' (fat-associated lymphoid cluster).
FALC Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells are distinct from lymphoid progenitors and
lymphoid tissue inducer cells. These cells proliferate in response to IL2 and
produce large amounts of T(H)2 cytokines such as IL5, IL6 and IL13. IL5 and IL6
regulate B-cell antibody production and self-renewal of B1 cells. Indeed, FALC
Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells support the self-renewal of B1 cells and enhance IgA
production. IL5 and IL13 mediate allergic inflammation and protection against
helminth infection. After helminth infection and in response to IL33, FALC
Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells produce large amounts of IL13, which leads to goblet
cell hyperplasia-a critical step for helminth expulsion. In mice devoid of FALC
Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells, such goblet cell hyperplasia was not induced. Thus,
FALC Lin(-)c-Kit(+)Sca-1(+) cells are T(H)2-type innate lymphocytes, and we
propose that these cells be called 'natural helper cells'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08636 
PMID: 20023630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):318-25. doi: 10.1038/nature08712. Epub 2009 Dec 23.

The transcriptional network for mesenchymal transformation of brain tumours.

Carro MS(1), Lim WK, Alvarez MJ, Bollo RJ, Zhao X, Snyder EY, Sulman EP, Anne SL,
Doetsch F, Colman H, Lasorella A, Aldape K, Califano A, Iavarone A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York,
New York 10032, USA.

The inference of transcriptional networks that regulate transitions into
physiological or pathological cellular states remains a central challenge in
systems biology. A mesenchymal phenotype is the hallmark of tumour aggressiveness
in human malignant glioma, but the regulatory programs responsible for
implementing the associated molecular signature are largely unknown. Here we show
that reverse-engineering and an unbiased interrogation of a glioma-specific
regulatory network reveal the transcriptional module that activates expression of
mesenchymal genes in malignant glioma. Two transcription factors (C/EBPbeta and
STAT3) emerge as synergistic initiators and master regulators of mesenchymal
transformation. Ectopic co-expression of C/EBPbeta and STAT3 reprograms neural
stem cells along the aberrant mesenchymal lineage, whereas elimination of the two
factors in glioma cells leads to collapse of the mesenchymal signature and
reduces tumour aggressiveness. In human glioma, expression of C/EBPbeta and STAT3
correlates with mesenchymal differentiation and predicts poor clinical outcome.
These results show that the activation of a small regulatory module is necessary 
and sufficient to initiate and maintain an aberrant phenotypic state in cancer
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08712 
PMCID: PMC4011561
PMID: 20032975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):311-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08696. Epub 2009 Dec 13.

The sequence and de novo assembly of the giant panda genome.

Li R(1), Fan W, Tian G, Zhu H, He L, Cai J, Huang Q, Cai Q, Li B, Bai Y, Zhang Z,
Zhang Y, Wang W, Li J, Wei F, Li H, Jian M, Li J, Zhang Z, Nielsen R, Li D, Gu W,
Yang Z, Xuan Z, Ryder OA, Leung FC, Zhou Y, Cao J, Sun X, Fu Y, Fang X, Guo X,
Wang B, Hou R, Shen F, Mu B, Ni P, Lin R, Qian W, Wang G, Yu C, Nie W, Wang J, Wu
Z, Liang H, Min J, Wu Q, Cheng S, Ruan J, Wang M, Shi Z, Wen M, Liu B, Ren X,
Zheng H, Dong D, Cook K, Shan G, Zhang H, Kosiol C, Xie X, Lu Z, Zheng H, Li Y,
Steiner CC, Lam TT, Lin S, Zhang Q, Li G, Tian J, Gong T, Liu H, Zhang D, Fang L,
Ye C, Zhang J, Hu W, Xu A, Ren Y, Zhang G, Bruford MW, Li Q, Ma L, Guo Y, An N,
Hu Y, Zheng Y, Shi Y, Li Z, Liu Q, Chen Y, Zhao J, Qu N, Zhao S, Tian F, Wang X, 
Wang H, Xu L, Liu X, Vinar T, Wang Y, Lam TW, Yiu SM, Liu S, Zhang H, Li D, Huang
Y, Wang X, Yang G, Jiang Z, Wang J, Qin N, Li L, Li J, Bolund L, Kristiansen K,
Wong GK, Olson M, Zhang X, Li S, Yang H, Wang J, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 25;463(7284):1106.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):303-4.

Using next-generation sequencing technology alone, we have successfully generated
and assembled a draft sequence of the giant panda genome. The assembled contigs
(2.25 gigabases (Gb)) cover approximately 94% of the whole genome, and the
remaining gaps (0.05 Gb) seem to contain carnivore-specific repeats and tandem
repeats. Comparisons with the dog and human showed that the panda genome has a
lower divergence rate. The assessment of panda genes potentially underlying some 
of its unique traits indicated that its bamboo diet might be more dependent on
its gut microbiome than its own genetic composition. We also identified more than
2.7 million heterozygous single nucleotide polymorphisms in the diploid genome.
Our data and analyses provide a foundation for promoting mammalian genetic
research, and demonstrate the feasibility for using next-generation sequencing
technologies for accurate, cost-effective and rapid de novo assembly of large
eukaryotic genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08696 
PMCID: PMC3951497
PMID: 20010809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):364-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08697. Epub 2009 Dec 13.

HnRNP proteins controlled by c-Myc deregulate pyruvate kinase mRNA splicing in
cancer.

David CJ(1), Chen M, Assanah M, Canoll P, Manley JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

When oxygen is abundant, quiescent cells efficiently extract energy from glucose 
primarily by oxidative phosphorylation, whereas under the same conditions tumour 
cells consume glucose more avidly, converting it to lactate. This long-observed
phenomenon is known as aerobic glycolysis, and is important for cell growth.
Because aerobic glycolysis is only useful to growing cells, it is tightly
regulated in a proliferation-linked manner. In mammals, this is partly achieved
through control of pyruvate kinase isoform expression. The embryonic pyruvate
kinase isoform, PKM2, is almost universally re-expressed in cancer, and promotes 
aerobic glycolysis, whereas the adult isoform, PKM1, promotes oxidative
phosphorylation. These two isoforms result from mutually exclusive alternative
splicing of the PKM pre-mRNA, reflecting inclusion of either exon 9 (PKM1) or
exon 10 (PKM2). Here we show that three heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein
(hnRNP) proteins, polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB, also known as
hnRNPI), hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2, bind repressively to sequences flanking exon 9,
resulting in exon 10 inclusion. We also demonstrate that the oncogenic
transcription factor c-Myc upregulates transcription of PTB, hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2,
ensuring a high PKM2/PKM1 ratio. Establishing a relevance to cancer, we show that
human gliomas overexpress c-Myc, PTB, hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2 in a manner that
correlates with PKM2 expression. Our results thus define a pathway that regulates
an alternative splicing event required for tumour cell proliferation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08697 
PMCID: PMC2950088
PMID: 20010808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):349-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08630. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Phylogenies reveal new interpretation of speciation and the Red Queen.

Venditti C(1), Meade A, Pagel M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Reading, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 
6BX, UK.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):306-7.

The Red Queen describes a view of nature in which species continually evolve but 
do not become better adapted. It is one of the more distinctive metaphors of
evolutionary biology, but no test of its claim that speciation occurs at a
constant rate has ever been made against competing models that can predict
virtually identical outcomes, nor has any mechanism been proposed that could
cause the constant-rate phenomenon. Here we use 101 phylogenies of animal, plant 
and fungal taxa to test the constant-rate claim against four competing models.
Phylogenetic branch lengths record the amount of time or evolutionary change
between successive events of speciation. The models predict the distribution of
these lengths by specifying how factors combine to bring about speciation, or by 
describing how rates of speciation vary throughout a tree. We find that the
hypotheses that speciation follows the accumulation of many small events that act
either multiplicatively or additively found support in 8% and none of the trees, 
respectively. A further 8% of trees hinted that the probability of speciation
changes according to the amount of divergence from the ancestral species, and 6% 
suggested speciation rates vary among taxa. By comparison, 78% of the trees fit
the simplest model in which new species emerge from single events, each rare but 
individually sufficient to cause speciation. This model predicts a constant rate 
of speciation, and provides a new interpretation of the Red Queen: the metaphor
of species losing a race against a deteriorating environment is replaced by a
view linking speciation to rare stochastic events that cause reproductive
isolation. Attempts to understand species-radiations or why some groups have more
or fewer species should look to the size of the catalogue of potential causes of 
speciation shared by a group of closely related organisms rather than to how
those causes combine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08630 
PMID: 20010607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):184-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08629. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

A small-cell lung cancer genome with complex signatures of tobacco exposure.

Pleasance ED(1), Stephens PJ, O'Meara S, McBride DJ, Meynert A, Jones D, Lin ML, 
Beare D, Lau KW, Greenman C, Varela I, Nik-Zainal S, Davies HR, Ordoñez GR, Mudie
LJ, Latimer C, Edkins S, Stebbings L, Chen L, Jia M, Leroy C, Marshall J, Menzies
A, Butler A, Teague JW, Mangion J, Sun YA, McLaughlin SF, Peckham HE, Tsung EF,
Costa GL, Lee CC, Minna JD, Gazdar A, Birney E, Rhodes MD, McKernan KJ, Stratton 
MR, Futreal PA, Campbell PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Cancer is driven by mutation. Worldwide, tobacco smoking is the principal
lifestyle exposure that causes cancer, exerting carcinogenicity through >60
chemicals that bind and mutate DNA. Using massively parallel sequencing
technology, we sequenced a small-cell lung cancer cell line, NCI-H209, to explore
the mutational burden associated with tobacco smoking. A total of 22,910 somatic 
substitutions were identified, including 134 in coding exons. Multiple mutation
signatures testify to the cocktail of carcinogens in tobacco smoke and their
proclivities for particular bases and surrounding sequence context. Effects of
transcription-coupled repair and a second, more general, expression-linked repair
pathway were evident. We identified a tandem duplication that duplicates exons
3-8 of CHD7 in frame, and another two lines carrying PVT1-CHD7 fusion genes,
indicating that CHD7 may be recurrently rearranged in this disease. These
findings illustrate the potential for next-generation sequencing to provide
unprecedented insights into mutational processes, cellular repair pathways and
gene networks associated with cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08629 
PMCID: PMC2880489
PMID: 20016488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):223-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08655. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Coots use hatch order to learn to recognize and reject conspecific brood
parasitic chicks.

Shizuka D(1), Lyon BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California,
Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA. shizuka@biology.ucsc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):165-7.

Avian brood parasites and their hosts provide model systems for investigating
links between recognition, learning, and their fitness consequences. One major
evolutionary puzzle has continued to capture the attention of naturalists for
centuries: why do hosts of brood parasites generally fail to recognize parasitic 
offspring after they have hatched from the egg, even when the host and parasitic 
chicks differ to almost comic degrees? One prominent theory to explain this
pattern proposes that the costs of mistakenly learning to recognize the wrong
offspring make recognition maladaptive. Here we show that American coots, Fulica 
americana, can recognize and reject parasitic chicks in their brood by using
learned cues, despite the fact that the hosts and the brood parasites are of the 
same species. A series of chick cross-fostering experiments confirm that coots
use first-hatched chicks in a brood as referents to learn to recognize their own 
chicks and then discriminate against later-hatched parasitic chicks in the same
brood. When experimentally provided with the wrong reference chicks, coots can be
induced to discriminate against their own offspring, confirming that the learning
errors proposed by theory can exist. However, learning based on hatching order is
reliable in naturally parasitized coot nests because host eggs hatch predictably 
ahead of parasite eggs. Conversely, a lack of reliable information may help to
explain why the evolution of chick recognition is not more common in hosts of
most interspecific brood parasites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08655 
PMID: 20016486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):191-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08658. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

A comprehensive catalogue of somatic mutations from a human cancer genome.

Pleasance ED(1), Cheetham RK, Stephens PJ, McBride DJ, Humphray SJ, Greenman CD, 
Varela I, Lin ML, Ordóñez GR, Bignell GR, Ye K, Alipaz J, Bauer MJ, Beare D,
Butler A, Carter RJ, Chen L, Cox AJ, Edkins S, Kokko-Gonzales PI, Gormley NA,
Grocock RJ, Haudenschild CD, Hims MM, James T, Jia M, Kingsbury Z, Leroy C,
Marshall J, Menzies A, Mudie LJ, Ning Z, Royce T, Schulz-Trieglaff OB, Spiridou
A, Stebbings LA, Szajkowski L, Teague J, Williamson D, Chin L, Ross MT, Campbell 
PJ, Bentley DR, Futreal PA, Stratton MR.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

All cancers carry somatic mutations. A subset of these somatic alterations,
termed driver mutations, confer selective growth advantage and are implicated in 
cancer development, whereas the remainder are passengers. Here we have sequenced 
the genomes of a malignant melanoma and a lymphoblastoid cell line from the same 
person, providing the first comprehensive catalogue of somatic mutations from an 
individual cancer. The catalogue provides remarkable insights into the forces
that have shaped this cancer genome. The dominant mutational signature reflects
DNA damage due to ultraviolet light exposure, a known risk factor for malignant
melanoma, whereas the uneven distribution of mutations across the genome, with a 
lower prevalence in gene footprints, indicates that DNA repair has been
preferentially deployed towards transcribed regions. The results illustrate the
power of a cancer genome sequence to reveal traces of the DNA damage, repair,
mutation and selection processes that were operative years before the cancer
became symptomatic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08658 
PMCID: PMC3145108
PMID: 20016485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):214-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08705. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Three-dimensional structure determination from a single view.

Raines KS(1), Salha S, Sandberg RL, Jiang H, Rodríguez JA, Fahimian BP, Kapteyn
HC, Du J, Miao J.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, [2] California NanoSystems Institute.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):E2-3.
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):E1.

The ability to determine the structure of matter in three dimensions has
profoundly advanced our understanding of nature. Traditionally, the most widely
used schemes for three-dimensional (3D) structure determination of an object are 
implemented by acquiring multiple measurements over various sample orientations, 
as in the case of crystallography and tomography, or by scanning a series of thin
sections through the sample, as in confocal microscopy. Here we present a 3D
imaging modality, termed ankylography (derived from the Greek words ankylos
meaning 'curved' and graphein meaning 'writing'), which under certain
circumstances enables complete 3D structure determination from a single exposure 
using a monochromatic incident beam. We demonstrate that when the diffraction
pattern of a finite object is sampled at a sufficiently fine scale on the Ewald
sphere, the 3D structure of the object is in principle determined by the 2D
spherical pattern. We confirm the theoretical analysis by performing 3D numerical
reconstructions of a sodium silicate glass structure at 2 A resolution, and a
single poliovirus at 2-3 nm resolution, from 2D spherical diffraction patterns
alone. Using diffraction data from a soft X-ray laser, we also provide a
preliminary demonstration that ankylography is experimentally feasible by
obtaining a 3D image of a test object from a single 2D diffraction pattern. With 
further development, this approach of obtaining complete 3D structure information
from a single view could find broad applications in the physical and life
sciences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08705 
PMID: 20016484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08680. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Time-reversal symmetry breaking and spontaneous Hall effect without magnetic
dipole order.

Machida Y(1), Nakatsuji S, Onoda S, Tayama T, Sakakibara T.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa 277-8581, 
Japan [2] Present addresses: Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of
Technology, Meguro 152-8551, Japan (Y.M.); Department of Physics, University of
Toyama, Toyama 930-8555, Japan (T.T.).

Spin liquids are magnetically frustrated systems, in which spins are prevented
from ordering or freezing, owing to quantum or thermal fluctuations among
degenerate states induced by the frustration. Chiral spin liquids are a
hypothetical class of spin liquids in which the time-reversal symmetry is
macroscopically broken in the absence of an applied magnetic field or any
magnetic dipole long-range order. Even though such chiral spin-liquid states were
proposed more than two decades ago, an experimental realization and observation
of such states has remained a challenge. One of the characteristic order
parameters in such systems is a macroscopic average of the scalar spin chirality,
a solid angle subtended by three nearby spins. In previous experimental reports, 
however, the spin chirality was only parasitic to the non-coplanar spin structure
associated with a magnetic dipole long-range order or induced by the applied
magnetic field, and thus the chiral spin-liquid state has never been found. Here,
we report empirical evidence that the time-reversal symmetry can be broken
spontaneously on a macroscopic scale in the absence of magnetic dipole long-range
order. In particular, we employ the anomalous Hall effect to directly probe the
broken time-reversal symmetry for the metallic frustrated magnet Pr(2)Ir(2)O(7). 
An onset of the Hall effect is observed at zero field in the absence of uniform
magnetization, within the experimental accuracy, suggesting an emergence of a
chiral spin liquid. The origin of this spontaneous Hall effect is ascribed to
chiral spin textures, which are inferred from the magnetic measurements
indicating the spin ice-rule formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08680 
PMID: 20010605 


13. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08682. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Stomagen positively regulates stomatal density in Arabidopsis.

Sugano SS(1), Shimada T, Imai Y, Okawa K, Tamai A, Mori M, Hara-Nishimura I.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

Stomata in the epidermal tissues of leaves are valves through which passes CO(2),
and as such they influence the global carbon cycle. The two-dimensional pattern
and density of stomata in the leaf epidermis are genetically and environmentally 
regulated to optimize gas exchange. Two putative intercellular signalling
factors, EPF1 and EPF2, function as negative regulators of stomatal development
in Arabidopsis, possibly by interacting with the receptor-like protein TMM. One
or more positive intercellular signalling factors are assumed to be involved in
stomatal development, but their identities are unknown. Here we show that a novel
secretory peptide, which we designate as stomagen, is a positive intercellular
signalling factor that is conserved among vascular plants. Stomagen is a
45-amino-rich peptide that is generated from a 102-amino-acid precursor protein
designated as STOMAGEN. Both an in planta analysis and a semi-in-vitro analysis
with recombinant and chemically synthesized stomagen peptides showed that
stomagen has stomata-inducing activity in a dose-dependent manner. A genetic
analysis showed that TMM is epistatic to STOMAGEN (At4g12970), suggesting that
stomatal development is finely regulated by competitive binding of positive and
negative regulators to the same receptor. Notably, STOMAGEN is expressed in inner
tissues (the mesophyll) of immature leaves but not in the epidermal tissues where
stomata develop. This study provides evidence of a mesophyll-derived positive
regulator of stomatal density. Our findings provide a conceptual advancement in
understanding stomatal development: inner photosynthetic tissues optimize their
function by regulating stomatal density in the epidermis for efficient uptake of 
CO(2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08682 
PMID: 20010603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 2010 Jan 14;463(7278):227-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08678. Epub 2009 Dec 6.

Identification of an aggression-promoting pheromone and its receptor neurons in
Drosophila.

Wang L(1), Anderson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. lmwang@caltech.edu

Aggression is regulated by pheromones in many animal species. However, in no
system have aggression pheromones, their cognate receptors and corresponding
sensory neurons been identified. Here we show that 11-cis-vaccenyl acetate (cVA),
a male-specific volatile pheromone, robustly promotes male-male aggression in the
vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster. The aggression-promoting effect of synthetic
cVA requires olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) expressing the receptor Or67d, as
well as the receptor itself. Activation of Or67d-expressing OSNs, either by
genetic manipulation of their excitability or by exposure to male pheromones in
the absence of other classes of OSNs, is sufficient to promote aggression. High
densities of male flies can promote aggression by the release of volatile cVA. In
turn, cVA-promoted aggression can promote male fly dispersal from a food
resource, in a manner dependent on Or67d-expressing OSNs. These data indicate
that cVA may mediate negative-feedback control of male population density,
through its effect on aggression. Identification of a pheromone-OSN pair
controlling aggression in a genetic organism opens the way to unravelling the
neurobiology of this evolutionarily conserved behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08678 
PMCID: PMC2999963
PMID: 19966787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08646. Epub 2009 Dec 20.

Deubiquitinase USP9X stabilizes MCL1 and promotes tumour cell survival.

Schwickart M(1), Huang X, Lill JR, Liu J, Ferrando R, French DM, Maecker H,
O'Rourke K, Bazan F, Eastham-Anderson J, Yue P, Dornan D, Huang DC, Dixit VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

MCL1 is essential for the survival of stem and progenitor cells of multiple
lineages, and is unique among pro-survival BCL2 family members in that it is
rapidly turned over through the action of ubiquitin ligases. B- and mantle-cell
lymphomas, chronic myeloid leukaemia, and multiple myeloma, however, express
abnormally high levels of MCL1, contributing to chemoresistance and disease
relapse. The mechanism of MCL1 overexpression in cancer is not well understood.
Here we show that the deubiquitinase USP9X stabilizes MCL1 and thereby promotes
cell survival. USP9X binds MCL1 and removes the Lys 48-linked polyubiquitin
chains that normally mark MCL1 for proteasomal degradation. Increased USP9X
expression correlates with increased MCL1 protein in human follicular lymphomas
and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. Moreover, patients with multiple myeloma
overexpressing USP9X have a poor prognosis. Knockdown of USP9X increases MCL1
polyubiquitination, which enhances MCL1 turnover and cell killing by the BH3
mimetic ABT-737. These results identify USP9X as a prognostic and therapeutic
target, and they show that deubiquitinases may stabilize labile oncoproteins in
human malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08646 
PMID: 20023629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08648. Epub 2009 Dec 20.

Crystal structure of DNA-PKcs reveals a large open-ring cradle comprised of HEAT 
repeats.

Sibanda BL(1), Chirgadze DY, Blundell TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Old Addenbrooke's site,
80 Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1GA, UK. lynn@cryst.bioc.cam.ac.uk

Broken chromosomes arising from DNA double-strand breaks result from endogenous
events such as the production of reactive oxygen species during cellular
metabolism, as well as from exogenous sources such as ionizing radiation. Left
unrepaired or incorrectly repaired they can lead to genomic changes that may
result in cell death or cancer. DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK), a
holoenzyme that comprises the DNA-PK catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) and the
heterodimer Ku70/Ku80, has a major role in non-homologous end joining-the main
pathway in mammals used to repair double-strand breaks. DNA-PKcs is a
serine/threonine protein kinase comprising a single polypeptide chain of 4,128
amino acids and belonging to the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase
(PI(3)K)-related protein family. DNA-PKcs is involved in the sensing and
transmission of DNA damage signals to proteins such as p53, setting off events
that lead to cell cycle arrest. It phosphorylates a wide range of substrates in
vitro, including Ku70/Ku80, which is translocated along DNA. Here we present the 
crystal structure of human DNA-PKcs at 6.6 A resolution, in which the overall
fold is clearly visible, to our knowledge, for the first time. The many
alpha-helical HEAT repeats (helix-turn-helix motifs) facilitate bending and allow
the polypeptide chain to fold into a hollow circular structure. The
carboxy-terminal kinase domain is located on top of this structure, and a small
HEAT repeat domain that probably binds DNA is inside. The structure provides a
flexible cradle to promote DNA double-strand-break repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08648 
PMCID: PMC2811870
PMID: 20023628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08644. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Identification of sister chromatids by DNA template strand sequences.

Falconer E(1), Chavez EA, Henderson A, Poon SS, McKinney S, Brown L, Huntsman DG,
Lansdorp PM.

Author information: 
(1)Terry Fox Laboratory, B.C. Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3,
Canada.

It is generally assumed that sister chromatids are genetically and functionally
identical and that segregation to daughter cells is a random process. However,
functional differences between sister chromatids regulate daughter cell fate in
yeast and sister chromatid segregation is not random in Escherichia coli.
Differentiated sister chromatids, coupled with non-random segregation, have been 
proposed to regulate cell fate during the development of multicellular organisms.
This hypothesis has not been tested because molecular features to reliably
distinguish between sister chromatids are not obvious. Here we show that parental
'Watson' and 'Crick' DNA template strands can be identified in sister chromatids 
of murine metaphase chromosomes using CO-FISH (chromosome orientation
fluorescence in situ hybridization) with unidirectional probes specific for
centromeric and telomeric repeats. All chromosomes were found to have a uniform
orientation with the 5' end of the short arm on the same strand as T-rich major
satellite repeats. The invariable orientation of repetitive DNA was used to
differentially label sister chromatids and directly study mitotic segregation
patterns in different cell types. Whereas sister chromatids appeared to be
randomly distributed between daughter cells in cultured lung fibroblasts and
embryonic stem cells, significant non-random sister chromatid segregation was
observed in a subset of colon crypt epithelial cells, including cells outside
positions reported for colon stem cells. Our results establish that DNA template 
sequences can be used to distinguish sister chromatids and follow their mitotic
segregation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08644 
PMCID: PMC3757939
PMID: 20016487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):49-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08637. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Preventing the return of fear in humans using reconsolidation update mechanisms.

Schiller D(1), Monfils MH, Raio CM, Johnson DC, Ledoux JE, Phelps EA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):36-7.

Recent research on changing fears has examined targeting reconsolidation. During 
reconsolidation, stored information is rendered labile after being retrieved.
Pharmacological manipulations at this stage result in an inability to retrieve
the memories at later times, suggesting that they are erased or persistently
inhibited. Unfortunately, the use of these pharmacological manipulations in
humans can be problematic. Here we introduce a non-invasive technique to target
the reconsolidation of fear memories in humans. We provide evidence that old fear
memories can be updated with non-fearful information provided during the
reconsolidation window. As a consequence, fear responses are no longer expressed,
an effect that lasted at least a year and was selective only to reactivated
memories without affecting others. These findings demonstrate the adaptive role
of reconsolidation as a window of opportunity to rewrite emotional memories, and 
suggest a non-invasive technique that can be used safely in humans to prevent the
return of fear.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08637 
PMCID: PMC3640262
PMID: 20010606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08681. Epub 2009 Dec 9.

Preparation and detection of a mechanical resonator near the ground state of
motion.

Rocheleau T(1), Ndukum T, Macklin C, Hertzberg JB, Clerk AA, Schwab KC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Cold, macroscopic mechanical systems are expected to behave contrary to our usual
classical understanding of reality; the most striking and counterintuitive
predictions involve the existence of states in which the mechanical system is
located in two places simultaneously. Various schemes have been proposed to
generate and detect such states, and all require starting from mechanical states 
that are close to the lowest energy eigenstate, the mechanical ground state. Here
we report the cooling of the motion of a radio-frequency nanomechanical resonator
by parametric coupling to a driven, microwave-frequency superconducting
resonator. Starting from a thermal occupation of 480 quanta, we have observed
occupation factors as low as 3.8 +/- 1.3 and expect the mechanical resonator to
be found with probability 0.21 in the quantum ground state of motion. Further
cooling is limited by random excitation of the microwave resonator and heating of
the dissipative mechanical bath. This level of cooling is expected to make
possible a series of fundamental quantum mechanical observations including direct
measurement of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle and quantum entanglement with
qubits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08681 
PMID: 20010604 


20. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1070-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08622.

Novel mutant-selective EGFR kinase inhibitors against EGFR T790M.

Zhou W(1), Ercan D, Chen L, Yun CH, Li D, Capelletti M, Cortot AB, Chirieac L,
Iacob RE, Padera R, Engen JR, Wong KK, Eck MJ, Gray NS, Jänne PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The clinical efficacy of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase
inhibitors in EGFR-mutant non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is limited by the
development of drug-resistance mutations, including the gatekeeper T790M
mutation. Strategies targeting EGFR T790M with irreversible inhibitors have had
limited success and are associated with toxicity due to concurrent inhibition of 
wild-type EGFR. All current EGFR inhibitors possess a structurally related
quinazoline-based core scaffold and were identified as ATP-competitive inhibitors
of wild-type EGFR. Here we identify a covalent pyrimidine EGFR inhibitor by
screening an irreversible kinase inhibitor library specifically against EGFR
T790M. These agents are 30- to 100-fold more potent against EGFR T790M, and up to
100-fold less potent against wild-type EGFR, than quinazoline-based EGFR
inhibitors in vitro. They are also effective in murine models of lung cancer
driven by EGFR T790M. Co-crystallization studies reveal a structural basis for
the increased potency and mutant selectivity of these agents. These
mutant-selective irreversible EGFR kinase inhibitors may be clinically more
effective and better tolerated than quinazoline-based inhibitors. Our findings
demonstrate that functional pharmacological screens against clinically important 
mutant kinases represent a powerful strategy to identify new classes of
mutant-selective kinase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08622 
PMCID: PMC2879581
PMID: 20033049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1056-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08656.

A phylogeny-driven genomic encyclopaedia of Bacteria and Archaea.

Wu D(1), Hugenholtz P, Mavromatis K, Pukall R, Dalin E, Ivanova NN, Kunin V,
Goodwin L, Wu M, Tindall BJ, Hooper SD, Pati A, Lykidis A, Spring S, Anderson IJ,
D'haeseleer P, Zemla A, Singer M, Lapidus A, Nolan M, Copeland A, Han C, Chen F, 
Cheng JF, Lucas S, Kerfeld C, Lang E, Gronow S, Chain P, Bruce D, Rubin EM,
Kyrpides NC, Klenk HP, Eisen JA.

Author information: 
(1)DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, California 94598, USA.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2010;11(2):103.

Sequencing of bacterial and archaeal genomes has revolutionized our understanding
of the many roles played by microorganisms. There are now nearly 1,000 completed 
bacterial and archaeal genomes available, most of which were chosen for
sequencing on the basis of their physiology. As a result, the perspective
provided by the currently available genomes is limited by a highly biased
phylogenetic distribution. To explore the value added by choosing microbial
genomes for sequencing on the basis of their evolutionary relationships, we have 
sequenced and analysed the genomes of 56 culturable species of Bacteria and
Archaea selected to maximize phylogenetic coverage. Analysis of these genomes
demonstrated pronounced benefits (compared to an equivalent set of genomes
randomly selected from the existing database) in diverse areas including the
reconstruction of phylogenetic history, the discovery of new protein families and
biological properties, and the prediction of functions for known genes from other
organisms. Our results strongly support the need for systematic 'phylogenomic'
efforts to compile a phylogeny-driven 'Genomic Encyclopedia of Bacteria and
Archaea' in order to derive maximum knowledge from existing microbial genome data
as well as from genome sequences to come.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08656 
PMCID: PMC3073058
PMID: 20033048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1052-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08649.

The velocity of climate change.

Loarie SR(1), Duffy PB, Hamilton H, Asner GP, Field CB, Ackerly DD.

Author information: 
(1)Carnegie Institution for Science, Department of Global Ecology, Stanford,
California 94305, USA. loarie@stanford.edu

The ranges of plants and animals are moving in response to recent changes in
climate. As temperatures rise, ecosystems with 'nowhere to go', such as
mountains, are considered to be more threatened. However, species survival may
depend as much on keeping pace with moving climates as the climate's ultimate
persistence. Here we present a new index of the velocity of temperature change
(km yr(-1)), derived from spatial gradients ( degrees C km(-1)) and multimodel
ensemble forecasts of rates of temperature increase ( degrees C yr(-1)) in the
twenty-first century. This index represents the instantaneous local velocity
along Earth's surface needed to maintain constant temperatures, and has a global 
mean of 0.42 km yr(-1) (A1B emission scenario). Owing to topographic effects, the
velocity of temperature change is lowest in mountainous biomes such as tropical
and subtropical coniferous forests (0.08 km yr(-1)), temperate coniferous forest,
and montane grasslands. Velocities are highest in flooded grasslands (1.26 km
yr(-1)), mangroves and deserts. High velocities suggest that the climates of only
8% of global protected areas have residence times exceeding 100 years. Small
protected areas exacerbate the problem in Mediterranean-type and temperate
coniferous forest biomes. Large protected areas may mitigate the problem in
desert biomes. These results indicate management strategies for minimizing
biodiversity loss from climate change. Montane landscapes may effectively shelter
many species into the next century. Elsewhere, reduced emissions, a much expanded
network of protected areas, or efforts to increase species movement may be
necessary.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08649 
PMID: 20033047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1048-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08654.

Tremor-tide correlations and near-lithostatic pore pressure on the deep San
Andreas fault.

Thomas AM(1), Nadeau RM, Bürgmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, Berkeley Seismological Laboratory, 
University of California-Berkeley, 307 McCone Hall, Berkeley, California
94720-4767, USA. amthomas@berkeley.edu

Since its initial discovery nearly a decade ago, non-volcanic tremor has provided
information about a region of the Earth that was previously thought incapable of 
generating seismic radiation. A thorough explanation of the geologic process
responsible for tremor generation has, however, yet to be determined. Owing to
their location at the plate interface, temporal correlation with geodetically
measured slow-slip events and dominant shear wave energy, tremor observations in 
southwest Japan have been interpreted as a superposition of many low-frequency
earthquakes that represent slip on a fault surface. Fluids may also be
fundamental to the failure process in subduction zone environments, as
teleseismic and tidal modulation of tremor in Cascadia and Japan and high Poisson
ratios in both source regions are indicative of pressurized pore fluids. Here we 
identify a robust correlation between extremely small, tidally induced shear
stress parallel to the San Andreas fault and non-volcanic tremor activity near
Parkfield, California. We suggest that this tremor represents shear failure on a 
critically stressed fault in the presence of near-lithostatic pore pressure.
There are a number of similarities between tremor in subduction zone
environments, such as Cascadia and Japan, and tremor on the deep San Andreas
transform, suggesting that the results presented here may also be applicable in
other tectonic settings.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08654 
PMID: 20033046 


24. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1044-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08580.

Glaciers as a source of ancient and labile organic matter to the marine
environment.

Hood E(1), Fellman J, Spencer RG, Hernes PJ, Edwards R, D'Amore D, Scott D.

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Science and Geography Program, University of Alaska Southeast,
Juneau, Alaska 99801, USA. eran.hood@uas.alaska.edu

Riverine organic matter supports of the order of one-fifth of estuarine
metabolism. Coastal ecosystems are therefore sensitive to alteration of both the 
quantity and lability of terrigenous dissolved organic matter (DOM) delivered by 
rivers. The lability of DOM is thought to vary with age, with younger, relatively
unaltered organic matter being more easily metabolized by aquatic heterotrophs
than older, heavily modified material. This view is developed exclusively from
work in watersheds where terrestrial plant and soil sources dominate streamwater 
DOM. Here we characterize streamwater DOM from 11 coastal watersheds on the Gulf 
of Alaska that vary widely in glacier coverage (0-64 per cent). In contrast to
non-glacial rivers, we find that the bioavailability of DOM to marine
microorganisms is significantly correlated with increasing (14)C age. Moreover,
the most heavily glaciated watersheds are the source of the oldest (
approximately 4 kyr (14)C age) and most labile (66 per cent bioavailable) DOM.
These glacial watersheds have extreme runoff rates, in part because they are
subject to some of the highest rates of glacier volume loss on Earth. We estimate
the cumulative flux of dissolved organic carbon derived from glaciers
contributing runoff to the Gulf of Alaska at 0.13 +/- 0.01 Tg yr(-1) (1 Tg =
10(12) g), of which approximately 0.10 Tg is highly labile. This indicates that
glacial runoff is a quantitatively important source of labile reduced carbon to
marine ecosystems. Moreover, because glaciers and ice sheets represent the second
largest reservoir of water in the global hydrologic system, our findings indicate
that climatically driven changes in glacier volume could alter the age, quantity 
and reactivity of DOM entering coastal oceans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08580 
PMID: 20033045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1039-43. doi: 10.1038/nature08639.

Observation of molecular orbital gating.

Song H(1), Kim Y, Jang YH, Jeong H, Reed MA, Lee T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nanobio Materials and Electronics, Gwangju Institute of Science 
and Technology, Gwangju 500-712, South Korea.

The control of charge transport in an active electronic device depends intimately
on the modulation of the internal charge density by an external node. For
example, a field-effect transistor relies on the gated electrostatic modulation
of the channel charge produced by changing the relative position of the
conduction and valence bands with respect to the electrodes. In molecular-scale
devices, a longstanding challenge has been to create a true three-terminal device
that operates in this manner (that is, by modifying orbital energy). Here we
report the observation of such a solid-state molecular device, in which transport
current is directly modulated by an external gate voltage. Resonance-enhanced
coupling to the nearest molecular orbital is revealed by electron tunnelling
spectroscopy, demonstrating direct molecular orbital gating in an electronic
device. Our findings demonstrate that true molecular transistors can be created, 
and so enhance the prospects for molecularly engineered electronic devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08639 
PMID: 20033044 


26. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1036-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08567.

A strong, highly-tilted interstellar magnetic field near the Solar System.

Opher M(1), Bibi FA, Toth G, Richardson JD, Izmodenov VV, Gombosi TI.

Author information: 
(1)George Mason University, 4400 University Drive, Fairfax, Virginia 22030, USA. 
mopher@gmu.edu

Magnetic fields play an important (sometimes dominant) role in the evolution of
gas clouds in the Galaxy, but the strength and orientation of the field in the
interstellar medium near the heliosphere has been poorly constrained. Previous
estimates of the field strength range from 1.8-2.5 microG and the field was
thought to be parallel to the Galactic plane or inclined by 38-60 degrees (ref.
2) or 60-90 degrees (ref. 3) to this plane. These estimates relied either on
indirect observational inferences or modelling in which the interstellar neutral 
hydrogen was not taken into account. Here we report measurements of the
deflection of the solar wind plasma flows in the heliosheath to determine the
magnetic field strength and orientation in the interstellar medium. We find that 
the field strength in the local interstellar medium is 3.7-5.5 microG. The field 
is tilted approximately 20-30 degrees from the interstellar medium flow direction
(resulting from the peculiar motion of the Sun in the Galaxy) and is at an angle 
of about 30 degrees from the Galactic plane. We conclude that the interstellar
medium field is turbulent or has a distortion in the solar vicinity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08567 
PMID: 20033043 


27. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1032-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08568.

A binary star fraction of 76 per cent and unusual orbit parameters for the blue
stragglers of NGC 188.

Mathieu RD(1), Geller AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 475 North Charter
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA. mathieu@astro.wisc.edu

Blue straggler stars lie on or near the main sequences of star clusters (all
members of which formed around the same time), but typically are more luminous
than the turn-off stars and therefore long ago should have evolved off the main
sequence to become giants and white dwarfs. They are thought to derive from
normal main-sequence stars that have undergone a recent increase in mass.
Statistical evidence indicates that in globular star clusters the blue stragglers
probably form from binary stars. The specific formation processes, such as mass
transfer, mergers or stellar collisions during dynamical encounters of binary
stars, remain unresolved. Here we report that 16 of the 21 blue stragglers (76
per cent) in the old (7-Gyr; ref. 2) open cluster NGC 188 are currently in binary
systems, a frequency three times that found among normal solar-type main-sequence
stars. These blue straggler binaries have a remarkable period-eccentricity
distribution, with all but three having orbital periods of approximately 1,000
days. Moreover, these stars are rotating faster than normal main-sequence stars
of the same surface temperatures. These data show that most, and possibly all,
blue stragglers derive from multiple-star systems, and indicate that the several 
formation processes operate simultaneously. We suggest that rapid rotation of
blue stragglers may place upper limits on their ages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08568 
PMID: 20033042 


28. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1028-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08607.

Two distinct sequences of blue straggler stars in the globular cluster M 30.

Ferraro FR(1), Beccari G, Dalessandro E, Lanzoni B, Sills A, Rood RT, Pecci FF,
Karakas AI, Miocchi P, Bovinelli S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Bologna, Via Ranzani 1, 40127 Bologna, 
Italy. francesco.ferraro3@unibo.it

Stars in globular clusters are generally believed to have all formed at the same 
time, early in the Galaxy's history. 'Blue stragglers' are stars massive enough
that they should have evolved into white dwarfs long ago. Two possible mechanisms
have been proposed for their formation: mass transfer between binary companions
and stellar mergers resulting from direct collisions between two stars. Recently 
the binary explanation was claimed to be dominant. Here we report that there are 
two distinct parallel sequences of blue stragglers in M 30. This globular cluster
is thought to have undergone 'core collapse', during which both the collision
rate and the mass transfer activity in binary systems would have been enhanced.
We suggest that the two observed sequences are a consequence of cluster core
collapse, with the bluer population arising from direct stellar collisions and
the redder one arising from the evolution of close binaries that are probably
still experiencing an active phase of mass transfer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08607 
PMID: 20033041 


29. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1022-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08627.

Dynamics of nucleosome remodelling by individual ACF complexes.

Blosser TR(1), Yang JG, Stone MD, Narlikar GJ, Zhuang X.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

The ATP-dependent chromatin assembly and remodelling factor (ACF) functions to
generate regularly spaced nucleosomes, which are required for heritable gene
silencing. The mechanism by which ACF mobilizes nucleosomes remains poorly
understood. Here we report a single-molecule FRET study that monitors the
remodelling of individual nucleosomes by ACF in real time, revealing previously
unknown remodelling intermediates and dynamics. In the presence of ACF and ATP,
the nucleosomes exhibit gradual translocation along DNA interrupted by
well-defined kinetic pauses that occurred after approximately seven or three to
four base pairs of translocation. The binding of ACF, translocation of DNA and
exiting of translocation pauses are all ATP-dependent, revealing three distinct
functional roles of ATP during remodelling. At equilibrium, a continuously bound 
ACF complex can move the nucleosome back-and-forth many times before
dissociation, indicating that ACF is a highly processive and bidirectional
nucleosome translocase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08627 
PMCID: PMC2835771
PMID: 20033040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1016-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08621.

The chromatin remodeller ACF acts as a dimeric motor to space nucleosomes.

Racki LR(1), Yang JG, Naber N, Partensky PD, Acevedo A, Purcell TJ, Cooke R,
Cheng Y, Narlikar GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Evenly spaced nucleosomes directly correlate with condensed chromatin and gene
silencing. The ATP-dependent chromatin assembly factor (ACF) forms such
structures in vitro and is required for silencing in vivo. ACF generates and
maintains nucleosome spacing by constantly moving a nucleosome towards the longer
flanking DNA faster than the shorter flanking DNA. How the enzyme rapidly moves
back and forth between both sides of a nucleosome to accomplish bidirectional
movement is unknown. Here we show that nucleosome movement depends cooperatively 
on two ACF molecules, indicating that ACF functions as a dimer of ATPases.
Further, the nucleotide state determines whether the dimer closely engages one or
both sides of the nucleosome. Three-dimensional reconstruction by single-particle
electron microscopy of the ATPase-nucleosome complex in an activated ATP state
reveals a dimer architecture in which the two ATPases face each other. Our
results indicate a model in which the two ATPases work in a coordinated manner,
taking turns to engage either side of a nucleosome, thereby allowing processive
bidirectional movement. This novel dimeric motor mechanism differs from that of
dimeric motors such as kinesin and dimeric helicases that processively
translocate unidirectionally and reflects the unique challenges faced by motors
that move nucleosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08621 
PMCID: PMC2869534
PMID: 20033039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1005-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08645.

Complex landscapes of somatic rearrangement in human breast cancer genomes.

Stephens PJ(1), McBride DJ, Lin ML, Varela I, Pleasance ED, Simpson JT, Stebbings
LA, Leroy C, Edkins S, Mudie LJ, Greenman CD, Jia M, Latimer C, Teague JW, Lau
KW, Burton J, Quail MA, Swerdlow H, Churcher C, Natrajan R, Sieuwerts AM, Martens
JW, Silver DP, Langerød A, Russnes HE, Foekens JA, Reis-Filho JS, van 't Veer L, 
Richardson AL, Børresen-Dale AL, Campbell PJ, Futreal PA, Stratton MR.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.

Multiple somatic rearrangements are often found in cancer genomes; however, the
underlying processes of rearrangement and their contribution to cancer
development are poorly characterized. Here we use a paired-end sequencing
strategy to identify somatic rearrangements in breast cancer genomes. There are
more rearrangements in some breast cancers than previously appreciated.
Rearrangements are more frequent over gene footprints and most are
intrachromosomal. Multiple rearrangement architectures are present, but tandem
duplications are particularly common in some cancers, perhaps reflecting a
specific defect in DNA maintenance. Short overlapping sequences at most
rearrangement junctions indicate that these have been mediated by non-homologous 
end-joining DNA repair, although varying sequence patterns indicate that multiple
processes of this type are operative. Several expressed in-frame fusion genes
were identified but none was recurrent. The study provides a new perspective on
cancer genomes, highlighting the diversity of somatic rearrangements and their
potential contribution to cancer development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08645 
PMCID: PMC3398135
PMID: 20033038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):997-1004. doi: 10.1038/nature08690.

The first decade of science with Chandra and XMM-Newton.

Santos-Lleo M(1), Schartel N, Tananbaum H, Tucker W, Weisskopf MC.

Author information: 
(1)XMM-Newton Science Operations Centre, European Space Agency, Villanueva de la 
Cañada, 28691 Madrid, Spain.

NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory and the ESA's X-ray Multi-Mirror Mission
(XMM-Newton) made their first observations ten years ago. The complementary
capabilities of these observatories allow us to make high-resolution images and
precisely measure the energy of cosmic X-rays. Less than 50 years after the first
detection of an extrasolar X-ray source, these observatories have achieved an
increase in sensitivity comparable to going from naked-eye observations to the
most powerful optical telescopes over the past 400 years. We highlight some of
the many discoveries made by Chandra and XMM-Newton that have transformed
twenty-first century astronomy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08690 
PMID: 20033037 


33. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1065-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08628. Epub 2009 Dec 13.

Secreted semaphorins control spine distribution and morphogenesis in the
postnatal CNS.

Tran TS(1), Rubio ME, Clem RL, Johnson D, Case L, Tessier-Lavigne M, Huganir RL, 
Ginty DD, Kolodkin AL.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The majority of excitatory synapses in the mammalian CNS (central nervous system)
are formed on dendritic spines, and spine morphology and distribution are
critical for synaptic transmission, synaptic integration and plasticity. Here, we
show that a secreted semaphorin, Sema3F, is a negative regulator of spine
development and synaptic structure. Mice with null mutations in genes encoding
Sema3F, and its holoreceptor components neuropilin-2 (Npn-2, also known as Nrp2) 
and plexin A3 (PlexA3, also known as Plxna3), exhibit increased dentate gyrus
(DG) granule cell (GC) and cortical layer V pyramidal neuron spine number and
size, and also aberrant spine distribution. Moreover, Sema3F promotes loss of
spines and excitatory synapses in dissociated neurons in vitro, and in Npn-2(-/-)
brain slices cortical layer V and DG GCs exhibit increased mEPSC (miniature
excitatory postsynaptic current) frequency. In contrast, a distinct
Sema3A-Npn-1/PlexA4 signalling cascade controls basal dendritic arborization in
layer V cortical neurons, but does not influence spine morphogenesis or
distribution. These disparate effects of secreted semaphorins are reflected in
the restricted dendritic localization of Npn-2 to apical dendrites and of Npn-1
(also known as Nrp1) to all dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons. Therefore,
Sema3F signalling controls spine distribution along select dendritic processes,
and distinct secreted semaphorin signalling events orchestrate CNS connectivity
through the differential control of spine morphogenesis, synapse formation, and
the elaboration of dendritic morphology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08628 
PMCID: PMC2842559
PMID: 20010807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1075-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08626. Epub 2009 Dec 13.

DNA nanomechanics allows direct digital detection of complementary DNA and
microRNA targets.

Husale S(1), Persson HH, Sahin O.

Author information: 
(1)The Rowland Institute at Harvard, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.

Techniques to detect and quantify DNA and RNA molecules in biological samples
have had a central role in genomics research. Over the past decade, several
techniques have been developed to improve detection performance and reduce the
cost of genetic analysis. In particular, significant advances in label-free
methods have been reported. Yet detection of DNA molecules at concentrations
below the femtomolar level requires amplified detection schemes. Here we report a
unique nanomechanical response of hybridized DNA and RNA molecules that serves as
an intrinsic molecular label. Nanomechanical measurements on a microarray surface
have sufficient background signal rejection to allow direct detection and
counting of hybridized molecules. The digital response of the sensor provides a
large dynamic range that is critical for gene expression profiling. We have
measured differential expressions of microRNAs in tumour samples; such
measurements have been shown to help discriminate between the tissue origins of
metastatic tumours. Two hundred picograms of total RNA is found to be sufficient 
for this analysis. In addition, the limit of detection in pure samples is found
to be one attomolar. These results suggest that nanomechanical read-out of
microarrays promises attomolar-level sensitivity and large dynamic range for the 
analysis of gene expression, while eliminating biochemical manipulations,
amplification and labelling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08626 
PMCID: PMC2966338
PMID: 20010806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1061-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08619. Epub 2009 Dec 2.

Amino-acid imbalance explains extension of lifespan by dietary restriction in
Drosophila.

Grandison RC(1), Piper MD, Partridge L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Department of Genetics Evolution and Environment,
University College London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):989-90.

Dietary restriction extends healthy lifespan in diverse organisms and reduces
fecundity. It is widely assumed to induce adaptive reallocation of nutrients from
reproduction to somatic maintenance, aiding survival of food shortages in nature.
If this were the case, long life under dietary restriction and high fecundity
under full feeding would be mutually exclusive, through competition for the same 
limiting nutrients. Here we report a test of this idea in which we identified the
nutrients producing the responses of lifespan and fecundity to dietary
restriction in Drosophila. Adding essential amino acids to the dietary
restriction condition increased fecundity and decreased lifespan, similar to the 
effects of full feeding, with other nutrients having little or no effect.
However, methionine alone was necessary and sufficient to increase fecundity as
much as did full feeding, but without reducing lifespan. Reallocation of
nutrients therefore does not explain the responses to dietary restriction.
Lifespan was decreased by the addition of amino acids, with an interaction
between methionine and other essential amino acids having a key role. Hence, an
imbalance in dietary amino acids away from the ratio optimal for reproduction
shortens lifespan during full feeding and limits fecundity during dietary
restriction. Reduced activity of the insulin/insulin-like growth factor
signalling pathway extends lifespan in diverse organisms, and we find that it
also protects against the shortening of lifespan with full feeding. In other
organisms, including mammals, it may be possible to obtain the benefits to
lifespan of dietary restriction without incurring a reduction in fecundity,
through a suitable balance of nutrients in the diet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08619 
PMCID: PMC2798000
PMID: 19956092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1011-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08588. Epub 2009 Nov 29.

Structure of the outer membrane complex of a type IV secretion system.

Chandran V(1), Fronzes R, Duquerroy S, Cronin N, Navaza J, Waksman G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London and
Birkbeck College, Malet Street, London WC1E 7HX, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):992-4.

Type IV secretion systems are secretion nanomachines spanning the two membranes
of Gram-negative bacteria. Three proteins, VirB7, VirB9 and VirB10, assemble into
a 1.05 megadalton (MDa) core spanning the inner and outer membranes. This core
consists of 14 copies of each of the proteins and forms two layers, the I and O
layers, inserting in the inner and outer membrane, respectively. Here we present 
the crystal structure of a approximately 0.6 MDa outer-membrane complex
containing the entire O layer. This structure is the largest determined for an
outer-membrane channel and is unprecedented in being composed of three proteins. 
Unexpectedly, this structure identifies VirB10 as the outer-membrane channel with
a unique hydrophobic double-helical transmembrane region. This structure
establishes VirB10 as the only known protein crossing both membranes of
Gram-negative bacteria. Comparison of the cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) and 
crystallographic structures points to conformational changes regulating channel
opening and closing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08588 
PMCID: PMC2797999
PMID: 19946264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1079-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08620. Epub 2009 Nov
25.

Rational design of a structural and functional nitric oxide reductase.

Yeung N(1), Lin YW, Gao YG, Zhao X, Russell BS, Lei L, Miner KD, Robinson H, Lu
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA.

Protein design provides a rigorous test of our knowledge about proteins and
allows the creation of novel enzymes for biotechnological applications. Whereas
progress has been made in designing proteins that mimic native proteins
structurally, it is more difficult to design functional proteins. In comparison
to recent successes in designing non-metalloproteins, it is even more challenging
to rationally design metalloproteins that reproduce both the structure and
function of native metalloenzymes. This is because protein metal-binding sites
are much more varied than non-metal-containing sites, in terms of different metal
ion oxidation states, preferred geometry and metal ion ligand donor sets. Because
of their variability, it has been difficult to predict metal-binding site
properties in silico, as many of the parameters, such as force fields, are
ill-defined. Therefore, the successful design of a structural and functional
metalloprotein would greatly advance the field of protein design and our
understanding of enzymes. Here we report a successful, rational design of a
structural and functional model of a metalloprotein, nitric oxide reductase
(NOR), by introducing three histidines and one glutamate, predicted as ligands in
the active site of NOR, into the distal pocket of myoglobin. A crystal structure 
of the designed protein confirms that the minimized computer model contains a
haem/non-haem Fe(B) centre that is remarkably similar to that in the crystal
structure. This designed protein also exhibits NO reduction activity, and so
models both the structure and function of NOR, offering insight that the active
site glutamate is required for both iron binding and activity. These results show
that structural and functional metalloproteins can be rationally designed in
silico.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08620 
PMCID: PMC4297211
PMID: 19940850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):935-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08657.

Mammalian SUMO E3-ligases PIAS1 and PIAS4 promote responses to DNA double-strand 
breaks.

Galanty Y(1), Belotserkovskaya R, Coates J, Polo S, Miller KM, Jackson SP.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust and Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute, and Department of 
Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):857-8.

DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are highly cytotoxic lesions that are generated
by ionizing radiation and various DNA-damaging chemicals. Following DSB
formation, cells activate the DNA-damage response (DDR) protein kinases ATM, ATR 
and DNA-PK (also known as PRKDC). These then trigger histone H2AX (also known as 
H2AFX) phosphorylation and the accumulation of proteins such as MDC1, 53BP1 (also
known as TP53BP1), BRCA1, CtIP (also known as RBBP8), RNF8 and RNF168/RIDDLIN
into ionizing radiation-induced foci (IRIF) that amplify DSB signalling and
promote DSB repair. Attachment of small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) to
target proteins controls diverse cellular functions. Here, we show that SUMO1,
SUMO2 and SUMO3 accumulate at DSB sites in mammalian cells, with SUMO1 and
SUMO2/3 accrual requiring the E3 ligase enzymes PIAS4 and PIAS1. We also
establish that PIAS1 and PIAS4 are recruited to damage sites via mechanisms
requiring their SAP domains, and are needed for the productive association of
53BP1, BRCA1 and RNF168 with such regions. Furthermore, we show that PIAS1 and
PIAS4 promote DSB repair and confer ionizing radiation resistance. Finally, we
establish that PIAS1 and PIAS4 are required for effective ubiquitin-adduct
formation mediated by RNF8, RNF168 and BRCA1 at sites of DNA damage. These
findings thus identify PIAS1 and PIAS4 as components of the DDR and reveal how
protein recruitment to DSB sites is controlled by coordinated SUMOylation and
ubiquitylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08657 
PMCID: PMC2904806
PMID: 20016603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):930-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08677.

E2f1-3 switch from activators in progenitor cells to repressors in
differentiating cells.

Chong JL(1), Wenzel PL, Sáenz-Robles MT, Nair V, Ferrey A, Hagan JP, Gomez YM,
Sharma N, Chen HZ, Ouseph M, Wang SH, Trikha P, Culp B, Mezache L, Winton DJ,
Sansom OJ, Chen D, Bremner R, Cantalupo PG, Robinson ML, Pipas JM, Leone G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Virology, Immunology and Medical Genetics, College of 
Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

In the established model of mammalian cell cycle control, the retinoblastoma
protein (Rb) functions to restrict cells from entering S phase by binding and
sequestering E2f activators (E2f1, E2f2 and E2f3), which are invariably portrayed
as the ultimate effectors of a transcriptional program that commit cells to enter
and progress through S phase. Using a panel of tissue-specific cre-transgenic
mice and conditional E2f alleles we examined the effects of E2f1, E2f2 and E2f3
triple deficiency in murine embryonic stem cells, embryos and small intestines.
We show that in normal dividing progenitor cells E2f1-3 function as
transcriptional activators, but contrary to the current view, are dispensable for
cell division and instead are necessary for cell survival. In differentiating
cells E2f1-3 function in a complex with Rb as repressors to silence E2f targets
and facilitate exit from the cell cycle. The inactivation of Rb in
differentiating cells resulted in a switch of E2f1-3 from repressors to
activators, leading to the superactivation of E2f responsive targets and ectopic 
cell divisions. Loss of E2f1-3 completely suppressed these phenotypes caused by
Rb deficiency. This work contextualizes the activator versus repressor functions 
of E2f1-3 in vivo, revealing distinct roles in dividing versus differentiating
cells and in normal versus cancer-like cell cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08677 
PMCID: PMC2806193
PMID: 20016602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):925-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08544.

Division and apoptosis of E2f-deficient retinal progenitors.

Chen D(1), Pacal M, Wenzel P, Knoepfler PS, Leone G, Bremner R.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Department of
Ophthalmology, and Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

The activating E2f transcription factors (E2f1, E2f2 and E2f3) induce
transcription and are widely viewed as essential positive cell cycle regulators. 
Indeed, they drive cells out of quiescence, and the 'cancer cell cycle' in Rb1
null cells is E2f-dependent. Absence of activating E2fs in flies or mammalian
fibroblasts causes cell cycle arrest, but this block is alleviated by removing
repressive E2f or the tumour suppressor p53, respectively. Thus, whether
activating E2fs are indispensable for normal division is an area of debate.
Activating E2fs are also well known pro-apoptotic factors, providing a defence
against oncogenesis, yet E2f1 can limit irradiation-induced apoptosis. In flies
this occurs through repression of hid (also called Wrinkled; Smac/Diablo in
mammals). However, in mammals the mechanism is unclear because Smac/Diablo is
induced, not repressed, by E2f1, and in keratinocytes survival is promoted
indirectly through induction of DNA repair targets. Thus, a direct pro-survival
function for E2f1-3 and/or its relevance beyond irradiation has not been
established. To address E2f1-3 function in normal cells in vivo we focused on the
mouse retina, which is a relatively simple central nervous system component that 
can be manipulated genetically without compromising viability and has provided
considerable insight into development and cancer. Here we show that unlike
fibroblasts, E2f1-3 null retinal progenitor cells or activated Müller glia can
divide. We attribute this effect to functional interchangeability with Mycn.
However, loss of activating E2fs caused downregulation of the p53 deacetylase
Sirt1, p53 hyperacetylation and elevated apoptosis, establishing a novel
E2f-Sirt1-p53 survival axis in vivo. Thus, activating E2fs are not universally
required for normal mammalian cell division, but have an unexpected pro-survival 
role in development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08544 
PMCID: PMC2813224
PMID: 20016601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):911-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08631.

Common ecology quantifies human insurgency.

Bohorquez JC(1), Gourley S, Dixon AR, Spagat M, Johnson NF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering and CEIBA Complex Systems Research
Center, Universidad de Los Andes, Bogota, Colombia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):836.

Many collective human activities, including violence, have been shown to exhibit 
universal patterns. The size distributions of casualties both in whole wars from 
1816 to 1980 and terrorist attacks have separately been shown to follow
approximate power-law distributions. However, the possibility of universal
patterns ranging across wars in the size distribution or timing of
within-conflict events has barely been explored. Here we show that the sizes and 
timing of violent events within different insurgent conflicts exhibit remarkable 
similarities. We propose a unified model of human insurgency that reproduces
these commonalities, and explains conflict-specific variations quantitatively in 
terms of underlying rules of engagement. Our model treats each insurgent
population as an ecology of dynamically evolving, self-organized groups following
common decision-making processes. Our model is consistent with several recent
hypotheses about modern insurgency, is robust to many generalizations, and
establishes a quantitative connection between human insurgency, global terrorism 
and ecology. Its similarity to financial market models provides a surprising link
between violent and non-violent forms of human behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08631 
PMID: 20016600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):907-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08585.

Fault zone fabric and fault weakness.

Collettini C(1), Niemeijer A, Viti C, Marone C.

Author information: 
(1)Geologia Strutturale e Geofisica, Dipartimento di Scienze della Terra
Università degli Studi di Perugia, 06100, Perugia, Italy. colle@unipg.it

Geological and geophysical evidence suggests that some crustal faults are weak
compared to laboratory measurements of frictional strength. Explanations for
fault weakness include the presence of weak minerals, high fluid pressures within
the fault core and dynamic processes such as normal stress reduction, acoustic
fluidization or extreme weakening at high slip velocity. Dynamic weakening
mechanisms can explain some observations; however, creep and aseismic slip are
thought to occur on weak faults, and quasi-static weakening mechanisms are
required to initiate frictional slip on mis-oriented faults, at high angles to
the tectonic stress field. Moreover, the maintenance of high fluid pressures
requires specialized conditions and weak mineral phases are not present in
sufficient abundance to satisfy weak fault models, so weak faults remain largely 
unexplained. Here we provide laboratory evidence for a brittle, frictional
weakening mechanism based on common fault zone fabrics. We report on the
frictional strength of intact fault rocks sheared in their in situ geometry.
Samples with well-developed foliation are extremely weak compared to their
powdered equivalents. Micro- and nano-structural studies show that frictional
sliding occurs along very fine-grained foliations composed of phyllosilicates
(talc and smectite). When the same rocks are powdered, frictional strength is
high, consistent with cataclastic processes. Our data show that fault weakness
can occur in cases where weak mineral phases constitute only a small percentage
of the total fault rock and that low friction results from slip on a network of
weak phyllosilicate-rich surfaces that define the rock fabric. The widespread
documentation of foliated fault rocks along mature faults in different tectonic
settings and from many different protoliths suggests that this mechanism could be
a viable explanation for fault weakening in the brittle crust.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08585 
PMID: 20016599 


43. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):902-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08662.

Photon-induced near-field electron microscopy.

Barwick B(1), Flannigan DJ, Zewail AH.

Author information: 
(1)Physical Biology Center for Ultrafast Science and Technology, Arthur Amos
Noyes Laboratory of Chemical Physics, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

In materials science and biology, optical near-field microscopies enable spatial 
resolutions beyond the diffraction limit, but they cannot provide the
atomic-scale imaging capabilities of electron microscopy. Given the nature of
interactions between electrons and photons, and considering their connections
through nanostructures, it should be possible to achieve imaging of evanescent
electromagnetic fields with electron pulses when such fields are resolved in both
space (nanometre and below) and time (femtosecond). Here we report the
development of photon-induced near-field electron microscopy (PINEM), and the
associated phenomena. We show that the precise spatiotemporal overlap of
femtosecond single-electron packets with intense optical pulses at a
nanostructure (individual carbon nanotube or silver nanowire in this instance)
results in the direct absorption of integer multiples of photon quanta (nhomega) 
by the relativistic electrons accelerated to 200 keV. By energy-filtering only
those electrons resulting from this absorption, it is possible to image directly 
in space the near-field electric field distribution, obtain the temporal
behaviour of the field on the femtosecond timescale, and map its spatial
polarization dependence. We believe that the observation of the photon-induced
near-field effect in ultrafast electron microscopy demonstrates the potential for
many applications, including those of direct space-time imaging of localized
fields at interfaces and visualization of phenomena related to photonics,
plasmonics and nanostructures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08662 
PMID: 20016598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):898-901. doi: 10.1038/nature08563.

Photon-by-photon feedback control of a single-atom trajectory.

Kubanek A(1), Koch M, Sames C, Ourjoumtsev A, Pinkse PW, Murr K, Rempe G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany. alexander.kubanek@mpq.mpg.de

Feedback is one of the most powerful techniques for the control of classical
systems. An extension into the quantum domain is desirable as it could allow the 
production of non-trivial quantum states and protection against decoherence. The 
difficulties associated with quantum, as opposed to classical, feedback arise
from the quantum measurement process-in particular the quantum projection noise
and the limited measurement rate-as well as from quantum fluctuations perturbing 
the evolution in a driven open system. Here we demonstrate real-time feedback
control of the motion of a single atom trapped in an optical cavity. Individual
probe photons carrying information about the atomic position activate a dipole
laser that steers the atom on timescales 70 times shorter than the atom's
oscillation period in the trap. Depending on the specific implementation, the
trapping time is increased by a factor of more than four owing to feedback
cooling, which can remove almost all the kinetic energy of the atom in a quarter 
of an oscillation period. Our results show that the detected photon flux reflects
the atomic motion, and thus mark a step towards the exploration of the quantum
trajectory of a single atom at the standard quantum limit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08563 
PMID: 20016597 


45. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):895-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08608.

A single sub-kilometre Kuiper belt object from a stellar occultation in archival 
data.

Schlichting HE(1), Ofek EO, Wenz M, Sari R, Gal-Yam A, Livio M, Nelan E, Zucker
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, 249-17, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. hes@astro.caltech.edu

The Kuiper belt is a remnant of the primordial Solar System. Measurements of its 
size distribution constrain its accretion and collisional history, and the
importance of material strength of Kuiper belt objects. Small,
sub-kilometre-sized, Kuiper belt objects elude direct detection, but the
signature of their occultations of background stars should be detectable.
Observations at both optical and X-ray wavelengths claim to have detected such
occultations, but their implied abundances are inconsistent with each other and
far exceed theoretical expectations. Here we report an analysis of archival data 
that reveals an occultation by a body with an approximately 500-metre radius at a
distance of 45 astronomical units. The probability of this event arising from
random statistical fluctuations within our data set is about two per cent. Our
survey yields a surface density of Kuiper belt objects with radii exceeding 250
metres of 2.1(-1.7)(+4.8) x 10(7) deg(-2), ruling out inferred surface densities 
from previous claimed detections by more than 5sigma. The detection of only one
event reveals a deficit of sub-kilometre-sized Kuiper belt objects compared to a 
population extrapolated from objects with radii exceeding 50 kilometres. This
implies that sub-kilometre-sized objects are undergoing collisional erosion, just
like debris disks observed around other stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08608 
PMID: 20016596 


46. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):891-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08679.

A super-Earth transiting a nearby low-mass star.

Charbonneau D(1), Berta ZK, Irwin J, Burke CJ, Nutzman P, Buchhave LA, Lovis C,
Bonfils X, Latham DW, Udry S, Murray-Clay RA, Holman MJ, Falco EE, Winn JN,
Queloz D, Pepe F, Mayor M, Delfosse X, Forveille T.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. dcharbonneau@cfa.harvard.edu

A decade ago, the detection of the first transiting extrasolar planet provided a 
direct constraint on its composition and opened the door to spectroscopic
investigations of extrasolar planetary atmospheres. Because such characterization
studies are feasible only for transiting systems that are both nearby and for
which the planet-to-star radius ratio is relatively large, nearby small stars
have been surveyed intensively. Doppler studies and microlensing have uncovered a
population of planets with minimum masses of 1.9-10 times the Earth's mass
(M[symbol:see text]), called super-Earths. The first constraint on the bulk
composition of this novel class of planets was afforded by CoRoT-7b (refs 8, 9), 
but the distance and size of its star preclude atmospheric studies in the
foreseeable future. Here we report observations of the transiting planet GJ
1214b, which has a mass of 6.55M[symbol:see text]), and a radius 2.68 times
Earth's radius (R[symbol:see text]), indicating that it is intermediate in
stature between Earth and the ice giants of the Solar System. We find that the
planetary mass and radius are consistent with a composition of primarily water
enshrouded by a hydrogen-helium envelope that is only 0.05% of the mass of the
planet. The atmosphere is probably escaping hydrodynamically, indicating that it 
has undergone significant evolution during its history. The star is small and
only 13 parsecs away, so the planetary atmosphere is amenable to study with
current observatories.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08679 
PMID: 20016595 


47. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):886-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08593.

The SUMO modification pathway is involved in the BRCA1 response to genotoxic
stress.

Morris JR(1), Boutell C, Keppler M, Densham R, Weekes D, Alamshah A, Butler L,
Galanty Y, Pangon L, Kiuchi T, Ng T, Solomon E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, King's College London, Guy's
Medical School Campus, London SE1 9RT, UK. jo.morris@genetics.kcl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):857-8.

Mutations in BRCA1 are associated with a high risk of breast and ovarian cancer. 
BRCA1 participates in the DNA damage response and acts as a ubiquitin ligase.
However, its regulation remains poorly understood. Here we report that BRCA1 is
modified by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) in response to genotoxic stress,
and co-localizes at sites of DNA damage with SUMO1, SUMO2/3 and the
SUMO-conjugating enzyme Ubc9. PIAS SUMO E3 ligases co-localize with and modulate 
SUMO modification of BRCA1, and are required for BRCA1 ubiquitin ligase activity 
in cells. In vitro SUMO modification of the BRCA1/BARD1 heterodimer greatly
increases its ligase activity, identifying it as a SUMO-regulated ubiquitin
ligase (SRUbL). Further, PIAS SUMO ligases are required for complete accumulation
of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) damage-repair proteins subsequent to RNF8 accrual,
and for proficient double-strand break repair. These data demonstrate that the
SUMOylation pathway plays a significant role in mammalian DNA damage response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08593 
PMID: 20016594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):875-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08653.

Growth landscape formed by perception and import of glucose in yeast.

Youk H(1), van Oudenaarden A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

An important challenge in systems biology is to quantitatively describe microbial
growth using a few measurable parameters that capture the essence of this complex
phenomenon. Two key events at the cell membrane-extracellular glucose sensing and
uptake-initiate the budding yeast's growth on glucose. However, conventional
growth models focus almost exclusively on glucose uptake. Here we present results
from growth-rate experiments that cannot be explained by focusing on glucose
uptake alone. By imposing a glucose uptake rate independent of the sensed
extracellular glucose level, we show that despite increasing both the sensed
glucose concentration and uptake rate, the cell's growth rate can decrease or
even approach zero. We resolve this puzzle by showing that the interaction
between glucose perception and import, not their individual actions, determines
the central features of growth, and characterize this interaction using a
quantitative model. Disrupting this interaction by knocking out two key glucose
sensors significantly changes the cell's growth rate, yet uptake rates are
unchanged. This is due to a decrease in burden that glucose perception places on 
the cells. Our work shows that glucose perception and import are separate and
pivotal modules of yeast growth, the interaction of which can be precisely tuned 
and measured.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08653 
PMCID: PMC2796206
PMID: 20016593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):868-74. doi: 10.1038/nature08625.

Parental origin of sequence variants associated with complex diseases.

Kong A(1), Steinthorsdottir V, Masson G, Thorleifsson G, Sulem P, Besenbacher S, 
Jonasdottir A, Sigurdsson A, Kristinsson KT, Jonasdottir A, Frigge ML, Gylfason
A, Olason PI, Gudjonsson SA, Sverrisson S, Stacey SN, Sigurgeirsson B,
Benediktsdottir KR, Sigurdsson H, Jonsson T, Benediktsson R, Olafsson JH,
Johannsson OT, Hreidarsson AB, Sigurdsson G; DIAGRAM Consortium, Ferguson-Smith
AC, Gudbjartsson DF, Thorsteinsdottir U, Stefansson K.

Collaborators: Voight BF, Scott LJ, Steinthorsdottir V, Dina C, Zeggini E, Huth
C, Aulchenko YS, Welch RP, Thorleifsson G, McCulloch LJ, Ferreira T, Grallert H, 
Amin N, Wu G, Willer CJ, Raychaudhuri S, Purcell S, McCarroll SA, Langenberg C,
Hoffmann OM, Dupuis J, Qi L, Segrè AV, van Hoek M, Navarro P, Ardlie K, Balkau B,
Benediktsson R, Bennett AJ, Blagieva R, Boerwinkle E, Bonnycastle LL, Boström KB,
Bravenboer B, Bumpstead S, Burtt NP, Charpentier G, Chines PS, Cornelis M, Couper
DJ, Crawford G, Doney AS, Elliott KS, Elliott AL, Erdos MR, Fox CS, Franklin CS, 
Ganser M, Gieger C, Grarup N, Green T, Griffin S, Groves CJ, Guiducci C, Hadjadj 
S, Hassanali N, Herder C, Isomaa B, Jackson AU, Johnson PR, Jørgensen T, Kao WH, 
Klopp N, Kong A, Kraft P, Kuusisto J, Lauritzen T, Li M, Lieverse A, Lindgren CM,
Lyssenko V, Marre M, Meitinger T, Midthjell K, Morken MA, Narisu N, Nilsson P,
Owen KR, Payne F, Perry JR, Petersen AK, Platou C, Proença C, Prokopenko I,
Rathmann W, Rayner NW, Robertson NR, Rocheleau G, Roden M, Sampson MJ, Saxena R, 
Shields BM, Shrader P, Sigurdsson G, Smith N, Sparsø T, Strassburger K, Stringham
HM, Sun Q, Swift AJ, Thorand B, Tichet J, Tuomi T, van Dam R, van Herpt T,
Walters GB, Weedon MN, Witteman J, Bergman RN, Cauchi S, Collins FS, Gloyn AL,
Gyllensten U, Hansen T, Hide WA, Hitman GA, Hofman A, Hunter D, Hveem K, Laakso
M, Mohlke KL, Morris AD, Palmer CN, Pramstaller PP, Rudan I, Sijbrands E, Stein
LD, Tuomilehto J, Uitterlinden A, Walker M, Wareham NJ, Watanabe RM, Abecasis GR,
Barroso I, Boehm BO, Campbell H, Daly MJ, Florez JC, Frayling TM, Groop L,
Hattersley AT, Hu FB, Meigs JB, Morris AP, Pankow JS, Pedersen O, Sladek R,
Thorsteinsdottir U, Wichmann HE, Wilson JF, Illig T, Froguel P, van Duijn CM,
Stefansson K, Altshuler D, Boehnke M, McCarthy MI.

Author information: 
(1)deCODE genetics, Sturlugata 8, 101 Reykjavík, Iceland. kong@decode.is

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2010 Aug;139(2):689-90.

Effects of susceptibility variants may depend on from which parent they are
inherited. Although many associations between sequence variants and human traits 
have been discovered through genome-wide associations, the impact of parental
origin has largely been ignored. Here we show that for 38,167 Icelanders
genotyped using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chips, the parental origin
of most alleles can be determined. For this we used a combination of genealogy
and long-range phasing. We then focused on SNPs that associate with diseases and 
are within 500 kilobases of known imprinted genes. Seven independent SNP
associations were examined. Five-one with breast cancer, one with basal-cell
carcinoma and three with type 2 diabetes-have parental-origin-specific
associations. These variants are located in two genomic regions, 11p15 and 7q32, 
each harbouring a cluster of imprinted genes. Furthermore, we observed a novel
association between the SNP rs2334499 at 11p15 and type 2 diabetes. Here the
allele that confers risk when paternally inherited is protective when maternally 
transmitted. We identified a differentially methylated CTCF-binding site at 11p15
and demonstrated correlation of rs2334499 with decreased methylation of that
site.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08625 
PMCID: PMC3746295
PMID: 20016592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):863-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08686.

Probabilistic assessment of sea level during the last interglacial stage.

Kopp RE(1), Simons FJ, Mitrovica JX, Maloof AC, Oppenheimer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, 
USA. rkopp@alumni.caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):856-7.

With polar temperatures approximately 3-5 degrees C warmer than today, the last
interglacial stage (approximately 125 kyr ago) serves as a partial analogue for
1-2 degrees C global warming scenarios. Geological records from several sites
indicate that local sea levels during the last interglacial were higher than
today, but because local sea levels differ from global sea level, accurately
reconstructing past global sea level requires an integrated analysis of globally 
distributed data sets. Here we present an extensive compilation of local sea
level indicators and a statistical approach for estimating global sea level,
local sea levels, ice sheet volumes and their associated uncertainties. We find a
95% probability that global sea level peaked at least 6.6 m higher than today
during the last interglacial; it is likely (67% probability) to have exceeded 8.0
m but is unlikely (33% probability) to have exceeded 9.4 m. When global sea level
was close to its current level (>or=-10 m), the millennial average rate of global
sea level rise is very likely to have exceeded 5.6 m kyr(-1) but is unlikely to
have exceeded 9.2 m kyr(-1). Our analysis extends previous last interglacial sea 
level studies by integrating literature observations within a probabilistic
framework that accounts for the physics of sea level change. The results
highlight the long-term vulnerability of ice sheets to even relatively low levels
of sustained global warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08686 
PMID: 20016591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):915-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08389. Epub 2009 Nov 29.

Rapid formation and selective stabilization of synapses for enduring motor
memories.

Xu T(1), Yu X, Perlik AJ, Tobin WF, Zweig JA, Tennant K, Jones T, Zuo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):859-61.

Novel motor skills are learned through repetitive practice and, once acquired,
persist long after training stops. Earlier studies have shown that such learning 
induces an increase in the efficacy of synapses in the primary motor cortex, the 
persistence of which is associated with retention of the task. However, how motor
learning affects neuronal circuitry at the level of individual synapses and how
long-lasting memory is structurally encoded in the intact brain remain unknown.
Here we show that synaptic connections in the living mouse brain rapidly respond 
to motor-skill learning and permanently rewire. Training in a forelimb reaching
task leads to rapid (within an hour) formation of postsynaptic dendritic spines
on the output pyramidal neurons in the contralateral motor cortex. Although
selective elimination of spines that existed before training gradually returns
the overall spine density back to the original level, the new spines induced
during learning are preferentially stabilized during subsequent training and
endure long after training stops. Furthermore, we show that different motor
skills are encoded by different sets of synapses. Practice of novel, but not
previously learned, tasks further promotes dendritic spine formation in
adulthood. Our findings reveal that rapid, but long-lasting, synaptic
reorganization is closely associated with motor learning. The data also suggest
that stabilized neuronal connections are the foundation of durable motor memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08389 
PMCID: PMC2844762
PMID: 19946267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):920-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08577. Epub 2009 Nov 29.

Stably maintained dendritic spines are associated with lifelong memories.

Yang G(1), Pan F, Gan WB.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Program, The Helen and Martin Kimmel Center for Biology
and Medicine at the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, Department of
Physiology and Neuroscience, New York University School of Medicine, New York,
New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):859-61.

Changes in synaptic connections are considered essential for learning and memory 
formation. However, it is unknown how neural circuits undergo continuous synaptic
changes during learning while maintaining lifelong memories. Here we show, by
following postsynaptic dendritic spines over time in the mouse cortex, that
learning and novel sensory experience lead to spine formation and elimination by 
a protracted process. The extent of spine remodelling correlates with behavioural
improvement after learning, suggesting a crucial role of synaptic structural
plasticity in memory formation. Importantly, a small fraction of new spines
induced by novel experience, together with most spines formed early during
development and surviving experience-dependent elimination, are preserved and
provide a structural basis for memory retention throughout the entire life of an 
animal. These studies indicate that learning and daily sensory experience leave
minute but permanent marks on cortical connections and suggest that lifelong
memories are stored in largely stably connected synaptic networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08577 
PMCID: PMC4724802
PMID: 19946265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):940-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08611. Epub 2009 Nov 18.

Coordinating DNA replication by means of priming loop and differential synthesis 
rate.

Pandey M(1), Syed S, Donmez I, Patel G, Ha T, Patel SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New
Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):854-5.

Genomic DNA is replicated by two DNA polymerase molecules, one of which works in 
close association with the helicase to copy the leading-strand template in a
continuous manner while the second copies the already unwound lagging-strand
template in a discontinuous manner through the synthesis of Okazaki fragments.
Considering that the lagging-strand polymerase has to recycle after the
completion of every Okazaki fragment through the slow steps of primer synthesis
and hand-off to the polymerase, it is not understood how the two strands are
synthesized with the same net rate. Here we show, using the T7 replication
proteins, that RNA primers are made 'on the fly' during ongoing DNA synthesis and
that the leading-strand T7 replisome does not pause during primer synthesis,
contrary to previous reports. Instead, the leading-strand polymerase remains
limited by the speed of the helicase; it therefore synthesizes DNA more slowly
than the lagging-strand polymerase. We show that the primase-helicase T7 gp4
maintains contact with the priming sequence during ongoing DNA synthesis; the
nascent lagging-strand template therefore organizes into a priming loop that
keeps the primer in physical proximity to the replication complex. Our findings
provide three synergistic mechanisms of coordination: first, primers are made
concomitantly with DNA synthesis; second, the priming loop ensures efficient
primer use and hand-off to the polymerase; and third, the lagging-strand
polymerase copies DNA faster, which allows it to keep up with leading-strand DNA 
synthesis overall.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08611 
PMCID: PMC2896039
PMID: 19924126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):880-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08616. Epub 2009 Nov 18.

Transport mechanism of a bacterial homologue of glutamate transporters.

Reyes N(1), Ginter C, Boudker O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College, 1300
York Avenue, Box 75, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Glutamate transporters are integral membrane proteins that catalyse a
thermodynamically uphill uptake of the neurotransmitter glutamate from the
synaptic cleft into the cytoplasm of glia and neuronal cells by harnessing the
energy of pre-existing electrochemical gradients of ions. Crucial to the reaction
is the conformational transition of the transporters between outward and inward
facing states, in which the substrate binding sites are accessible from the
extracellular space and the cytoplasm, respectively. Here we describe the crystal
structure of a double cysteine mutant of a glutamate transporter homologue from
Pyrococcus horikoshii, Glt(Ph), which is trapped in the inward facing state by
cysteine crosslinking. Together with the previously determined crystal structures
of Glt(Ph) in the outward facing state, the structure of the crosslinked mutant
allows us to propose a molecular mechanism by which Glt(Ph) and, by analogy,
mammalian glutamate transporters mediate sodium-coupled substrate uptake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08616 
PMCID: PMC2934767
PMID: 19924125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):808-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08612.

Paradox of mistranslation of serine for alanine caused by AlaRS recognition
dilemma.

Guo M(1), Chong YE, Shapiro R, Beebe K, Yang XL, Schimmel P.

Author information: 
(1)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology and Department of Molecular Biology,
The Scripps Research Institute, BCC-379, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Mistranslation arising from confusion of serine for alanine by alanyl-tRNA
synthetases (AlaRSs) has profound functional consequences. Throughout evolution, 
two editing checkpoints prevent disease-causing mistranslation from confusing
glycine or serine for alanine at the active site of AlaRS. In both bacteria and
mice, Ser poses a bigger challenge than Gly. One checkpoint is the AlaRS editing 
centre, and the other is from widely distributed AlaXps-free-standing,
genome-encoded editing proteins that clear Ser-tRNA(Ala). The paradox of
misincorporating both a smaller (glycine) and a larger (serine) amino acid
suggests a deep conflict for nature-designed AlaRS. Here we show the chemical
basis for this conflict. Nine crystal structures, together with kinetic and
mutational analysis, provided snapshots of adenylate formation for each amino
acid. An inherent dilemma is posed by constraints of a structural design that
pins down the alpha-amino group of the bound amino acid by using an acidic
residue. This design, dating back more than 3 billion years, creates a
serendipitous interaction with the serine OH that is difficult to avoid.
Apparently because no better architecture for the recognition of alanine could be
found, the serine misactivation problem was solved through free-standing AlaXps, 
which appeared contemporaneously with early AlaRSs. The results reveal
unconventional problems and solutions arising from the historical design of the
protein synthesis machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08612 
PMCID: PMC2799227
PMID: 20010690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):803-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08633.

Long-range oncogenic activation of Igh-c-myc translocations by the Igh 3'
regulatory region.

Gostissa M(1), Yan CT, Bianco JM, Cogné M, Pinaud E, Alt FW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

B-cell malignancies, such as human Burkitt's lymphoma, often contain
translocations that link c-myc or other proto-oncogenes to the immunoglobulin
heavy chain locus (IgH, encoded by Igh). The nature of elements that activate
oncogenes within such translocations has been a long-standing question.
Translocations within Igh involve DNA double-strand breaks initiated either by
the RAG1/2 endonuclease during variable, diversity and joining gene segment
(V(D)J) recombination, or by activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID, also
known as AICDA) during class switch recombination (CSR). V(D)J recombination in
progenitor B (pro-B) cells assembles Igh variable region exons upstream of mu
constant region (Cmu) exons, which are the first of several sets of C(H) exons
('C(H) genes') within a C(H) locus that span several hundred kilobases (kb). In
mature B cells, CSR deletes Cmu and replaces it with a downstream C(H) gene. An
intronic enhancer (iEmu) between the variable region exons and Cmu promotes V(D)J
recombination in developing B cells. Furthermore, the Igh 3' regulatory region
(Igh3'RR) lies downstream of the C(H) locus and modulates CSR by long-range
transcriptional enhancement of C(H) genes. Transgenic mice bearing iEmu or
Igh3'RR sequences fused to c-myc are predisposed to B lymphomas, demonstrating
that such elements can confer oncogenic c-myc expression. However, in many B-cell
lymphomas, Igh-c-myc translocations delete iEmu and place c-myc up to 200 kb
upstream of the Igh3'RR. Here we address the oncogenic role of the Igh3'RR by
inactivating it in two distinct mouse models for B-cell lymphoma with Igh-c-myc
translocations. We show that the Igh3'RR is dispensable for pro-B-cell lymphomas 
with V(D)J recombination-initiated translocations, but is required for peripheral
B-cell lymphomas with CSR-associated translocations. As the Igh3'RR is not
required for CSR-associated Igh breaks or Igh-c-myc translocations in peripheral 
B-cell lymphoma progenitors, we conclude that this regulatory region confers
oncogenic activity by long-range and developmental stage-specific activation of
translocated c-myc genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08633 
PMCID: PMC2802177
PMID: 20010689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):799-802. doi: 10.1038/nature08618.

Cold-induced silencing by long antisense transcripts of an Arabidopsis Polycomb
target.

Swiezewski S(1), Liu F, Magusin A, Dean C.

Author information: 
(1)John Innes Centre, Colney, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK.

Transcription in eukaryotic genomes generates an extensive array of
non-protein-coding RNA, the functional significance of which is mostly unknown.
We are investigating the link between non-coding RNA and chromatin regulation
through analysis of FLC - a regulator of flowering time in Arabidopsis and a
target of several chromatin pathways. Here we use an unbiased strategy to
characterize non-coding transcripts of FLC and show that sense/antisense
transcript levels correlate in a range of mutants and treatments, but change
independently in cold-treated plants. Prolonged cold epigenetically silences FLC 
in a Polycomb-mediated process called vernalization. Our data indicate that
upregulation of long non-coding antisense transcripts covering the entire FLC
locus may be part of the cold-sensing mechanism. Induction of these antisense
transcripts occurs earlier than, and is independent of, other vernalization
markers and coincides with a reduction in sense transcription. We show that
addition of the FLC antisense promoter sequences to a reporter gene is sufficient
to confer cold-induced silencing of the reporter. Our data indicate that
cold-induced FLC antisense transcripts have an early role in the epigenetic
silencing of FLC, acting to silence FLC transcription transiently. Recruitment of
the Polycomb machinery then confers the epigenetic memory. Antisense
transcription events originating from 3' ends of genes might be a general
mechanism to regulate the corresponding sense transcription in a
condition/stage-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08618 
PMID: 20010688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):795-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08632.

Ecoenzymatic stoichiometry of microbial organic nutrient acquisition in soil and 
sediment.

Sinsabaugh RL(1), Hill BH, Follstad Shah JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico 871312, 
USA. rlsinsab@unm.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Nov 4;468(7320):122.

Biota can be described in terms of elemental composition, expressed as an atomic 
ratio of carbon:nitrogen:phosphorus (refs 1-3). The elemental stoichiometry of
microoorganisms is fundamental for understanding the production dynamics and
biogeochemical cycles of ecosystems because microbial biomass is the trophic base
of detrital food webs. Here we show that heterotrophic microbial communities of
diverse composition from terrestrial soils and freshwater sediments share a
common functional stoichiometry in relation to organic nutrient acquisition. The 
activities of four enzymes that catalyse the hydrolysis of assimilable products
from the principal environmental sources of C, N and P show similar scaling
relationships over several orders of magnitude, with a mean ratio for C:N:P
activities near 1:1:1 in all habitats. We suggest that these ecoenzymatic ratios 
reflect the equilibria between the elemental composition of microbial biomass and
detrital organic matter and the efficiencies of microbial nutrient assimilation
and growth. Because ecoenzymatic activities intersect the stoichiometric and
metabolic theories of ecology, they provide a functional measure of the threshold
at which control of community metabolism shifts from nutrient to energy flow.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08632 
PMID: 20010687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):786-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08614.

Reproductive skew and selection on female ornamentation in social species.

Rubenstein DR(1), Lovette IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University, Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Biology, 10th Floor Schermerhorn Extension, 1200 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, New 
York 10027, USA. dr2497@columbia.edu

Male animals are typically more elaborately ornamented than females. Classic
sexual selection theory notes that because sperm are cheaper to produce than
eggs, and because males generally compete more intensely for reproductive
opportunities and invest less in parental care than females, males can obtain
greater fitness benefits from mating multiply. Therefore, sexual selection
typically results in male-biased sex differences in secondary sexual characters. 
This generality has recently been questioned, because in cooperatively breeding
vertebrates, the strength of selection on traits used in intrasexual competition 
for access to mates (sexual selection) or other resources linked to reproduction 
(social selection) is similar in males and females. Because selection is acting
with comparable intensity in both sexes in cooperatively breeding species, the
degree of sexual dimorphism in traits used in intrasexual competition should be
reduced in cooperative breeders. Here we use the socially diverse African
starlings (Sturnidae) to demonstrate that the degree of sexual dimorphism in
plumage and body size is reduced in cooperatively breeding species as a result of
increased selection on females for traits that increase access to reproductive
opportunities, other resources, or higher social status. In cooperative breeders 
such as these, where there is unequal sharing of reproduction (reproductive skew)
among females, and where female dominance rank influences access to mates and
other resources, intrasexual competition among females may be intense and
ultimately select for female trait elaboration. Selection is thereby acting with 
different intensities on males and females in cooperatively versus
non-cooperatively breeding species, and female-female interactions in
group-living vertebrates will have important consequences for the evolution of
female morphological, physiological and behavioural traits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08614 
PMID: 20010686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):782-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08598.

Thickness and Clapeyron slope of the post-perovskite boundary.

Catalli K(1), Shim SH, Prakapenka V.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):384.

The thicknesses and Clapeyron slopes of mantle phase boundaries strongly
influence the seismic detectability of the boundaries and convection in the
mantle. The unusually large positive Clapeyron slope found for the boundary
between perovskite (Pv) and post-perovskite (pPv) (the 'pPv boundary') would
destabilize high-temperature anomalies in the lowermost mantle, in disagreement
with the seismic observations. Here we report the thickness of the pPv boundary
in (Mg(0.91)Fe(2+)(0.09))SiO(3) and (Mg(0.9)Fe(3+)(0.1))(Al(0.1)Si(0.9))O(3) as
determined in a laser-heated diamond-anvil cell under in situ high-pressure (up
to 145 GPa), high-temperature (up to 3,000 K) conditions. The measured Clapeyron 
slope is consistent with the D'' discontinuity. In both systems, however, the pPv
boundary thickness increases to 400-600 +/- 100 km, which is substantially
greater than the thickness of the D'' discontinuity (<30 km). Although the Fe(2+)
buffering effect of ferropericlase could decrease the pPv boundary thickness, the
boundary may remain thick in a pyrolitic composition because of the effects of Al
and the rapid temperature increase in the D'' layer. The pPv boundary would be
particularly thick in regions with an elevated Al content and/or a low Mg/Si
ratio, reducing the effects of the large positive Clapeyron slope on the buoyancy
of thermal anomalies and stabilizing compositional heterogeneities in the
lowermost mantle. If the pPv transition is the source of the D'' discontinuity,
regions with sharp discontinuities may require distinct compositions, such as a
higher Mg/Si ratio or a lower Al content.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08598 
PMID: 20010685 


61. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):778-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08555.

Catastrophic flood of the Mediterranean after the Messinian salinity crisis.

Garcia-Castellanos D(1), Estrada F, Jiménez-Munt I, Gorini C, Fernàndez M, Vergés
J, De Vicente R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Ciències de la Terra Jaume Almera, CSIC, Solé i Sabarís s/n,
Barcelona, Spain.

The Mediterranean Sea became disconnected from the world's oceans and mostly
desiccated by evaporation about 5.6 million years ago during the Messinian
salinity crisis. The Atlantic waters found a way through the present Gibraltar
Strait and rapidly refilled the Mediterranean 5.33 million years ago in an event 
known as the Zanclean flood. The nature, abruptness and evolution of this flood
remain poorly constrained. Borehole and seismic data show incisions over 250 m
deep on both sides of the Gibraltar Strait that have previously been attributed
to fluvial erosion during the desiccation. Here we show the continuity of this
200-km-long channel across the strait and explain its morphology as the result of
erosion by the flooding waters, adopting an incision model validated in mountain 
rivers. This model in turn allows us to estimate the duration of the flood.
Although the available data are limited, our findings suggest that the feedback
between water flow and incision in the early stages of flooding imply discharges 
of about 10(8) m(3) s(-1) (three orders of magnitude larger than the present
Amazon River) and incision rates above 0.4 m per day. Although the flood started 
at low water discharges that may have lasted for up to several thousand years,
our results suggest that 90 per cent of the water was transferred in a short
period ranging from a few months to two years. This extremely abrupt flood may
have involved peak rates of sea level rise in the Mediterranean of more than ten 
metres per day.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08555 
PMID: 20010684 


62. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):773-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08641.

Disordered, quasicrystalline and crystalline phases of densely packed tetrahedra.

Haji-Akbari A(1), Engel M, Keys AS, Zheng X, Petschek RG, Palffy-Muhoray P,
Glotzer SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.

All hard, convex shapes are conjectured by Ulam to pack more densely than
spheres, which have a maximum packing fraction of phi = pi/ radical18
approximately 0.7405. Simple lattice packings of many shapes easily surpass this 
packing fraction. For regular tetrahedra, this conjecture was shown to be true
only very recently; an ordered arrangement was obtained via geometric
construction with phi = 0.7786 (ref. 4), which was subsequently compressed
numerically to phi = 0.7820 (ref. 5), while compressing with different initial
conditions led to phi = 0.8230 (ref. 6). Here we show that tetrahedra pack even
more densely, and in a completely unexpected way. Following a conceptually
different approach, using thermodynamic computer simulations that allow the
system to evolve naturally towards high-density states, we observe that a fluid
of hard tetrahedra undergoes a first-order phase transition to a dodecagonal
quasicrystal, which can be compressed to a packing fraction of phi = 0.8324. By
compressing a crystalline approximant of the quasicrystal, the highest packing
fraction we obtain is phi = 0.8503. If quasicrystal formation is suppressed, the 
system remains disordered, jams and compresses to phi = 0.7858. Jamming and
crystallization are both preceded by an entropy-driven transition from a simple
fluid of independent tetrahedra to a complex fluid characterized by tetrahedra
arranged in densely packed local motifs of pentagonal dipyramids that form a
percolating network at the transition. The quasicrystal that we report represents
the first example of a quasicrystal formed from hard or non-spherical particles. 
Our results demonstrate that particle shape and entropy can produce highly
complex, ordered structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08641 
PMID: 20010683 


63. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):767-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08590.

Ten per cent polarized optical emission from GRB 090102.

Steele IA(1), Mundell CG, Smith RJ, Kobayashi S, Guidorzi C.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysics Research Institute, Liverpool John Moores University, CH41 1LD,
UK. ias@astro.livjm.ac.uk

The nature of the jets and the role of magnetic fields in gamma-ray bursts (GRBs)
remains unclear. In a baryon-dominated jet only weak, tangled fields generated in
situ through shocks would be present. In an alternative model, jets are threaded 
with large-scale magnetic fields that originate at the central engine and that
accelerate and collimate the material. To distinguish between the models the
degree of polarization in early-time emission must be measured; however, previous
claims of gamma-ray polarization have been controversial. Here we report that the
early optical emission from GRB 090102 was polarized at 10 +/- 1 per cent,
indicating the presence of large-scale fields originating in the expanding
fireball. If the degree of polarization and its position angle were variable on
timescales shorter than our 60-second exposure, then the peak polarization may
have been larger than ten per cent.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08590 
PMID: 20010682 


64. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):762-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08561.

Encounter and extrusion of an intrahelical lesion by a DNA repair enzyme.

Qi Y(1), Spong MC, Nam K, Banerjee A, Jiralerspong S, Karplus M, Verdine GL.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Biophysics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA.

How living systems detect the presence of genotoxic damage embedded in a
million-fold excess of undamaged DNA is an unresolved question in biology. Here
we have captured and structurally elucidated a base-excision DNA repair enzyme,
MutM, at the stage of initial encounter with a damaged nucleobase, 8-oxoguanine
(oxoG), nested within a DNA duplex. Three structures of intrahelical
oxoG-encounter complexes are compared with sequence-matched structures containing
a normal G base in place of an oxoG lesion. Although the protein-DNA interfaces
in the matched complexes differ by only two atoms-those that distinguish oxoG
from G-their pronounced structural differences indicate that MutM can detect a
lesion in DNA even at the earliest stages of encounter. All-atom computer
simulations show the pathway by which encounter of the enzyme with the lesion
causes extrusion from the DNA duplex, and they elucidate the critical free energy
difference between oxoG and G along the extrusion pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08561 
PMCID: PMC2951314
PMID: 20010681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):E1; discussion E2-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08663.

Evidence for escape from adaptive conflict?

Barkman T(1), Zhang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo,
Michigan 49008, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Aug 7;454(7205):762-5.

Gene duplication is the primary source of new genes, but the molecular
evolutionary mechanisms underlying functional divergence of duplicate genes are
not well understood. Des Marais and Rausher argued that data from plant
dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) genes support the model that gene duplication
allows the escape from adaptive conflict (EAC) among several functions of a
single-copy progenitor gene. As the authors indicated, the key predictions of
EAC, in comparison to other models, are that (i) adaptive changes occur in both
daughter genes after duplication, and (ii) these adaptive changes must improve
ancestral functions. Furthermore, EAC indicates that (iii) the improvement of
several ancestral functions is constrained before duplication, although this last
point was not explicitly stated. Here we show that contrary to the predictions of
EAC, only one of the duplicated DFR lineages exhibited adaptive sequence changes.
Owing to the lack of information on enzyme concentrations we question the
accuracy of enzyme activity comparisons, and it is thus not clear that any
ancestral function has been improved in either lineage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08663 
PMID: 20010636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):745-56. doi: 10.1038/nature08624.

X-ray structure, symmetry and mechanism of an AMPA-subtype glutamate receptor.

Sobolevsky AI(1), Rosconi MP, Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):729-31.

Ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate most excitatory neurotransmission in the
central nervous system and function by opening a transmembrane ion channel upon
binding of glutamate. Despite their crucial role in neurobiology, the
architecture and atomic structure of an intact ionotropic glutamate receptor are 
unknown. Here we report the crystal structure of the
alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-sensitive,
homotetrameric, rat GluA2 receptor at 3.6 A resolution in complex with a
competitive antagonist. The receptor harbours an overall axis of two-fold
symmetry with the extracellular domains organized as pairs of local dimers and
with the ion channel domain exhibiting four-fold symmetry. A symmetry mismatch
between the extracellular and ion channel domains is mediated by two pairs of
conformationally distinct subunits, A/C and B/D. Therefore, the stereochemical
manner in which the A/C subunits are coupled to the ion channel gate is different
from the B/D subunits. Guided by the GluA2 structure and site-directed cysteine
mutagenesis, we suggest that GluN1 and GluN2A NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate)
receptors have a similar architecture, with subunits arranged in a 1-2-1-2
pattern. We exploit the GluA2 structure to develop mechanisms of ion channel
activation, desensitization and inhibition by non-competitive antagonists and
pore blockers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08624 
PMCID: PMC2861655
PMID: 19946266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):790-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08597.

Chiral blastomere arrangement dictates zygotic left-right asymmetry pathway in
snails.

Kuroda R(1), Endo B, Abe M, Shimizu M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The
University of Tokyo, Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.
ckuroda@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):727-8.

Most animals display internal and/or external left-right asymmetry. Several
mechanisms for left-right asymmetry determination have been proposed for
vertebrates and invertebrates but they are still not well characterized,
particularly at the early developmental stage. The gastropods Lymnaea stagnalis
and the closely related Lymnaea peregra have both the sinistral (recessive) and
the dextral (dominant) snails within a species and the chirality is hereditary,
determined by a single locus that functions maternally. Intriguingly, the
handedness-determining gene(s) and the mechanisms are not yet identified. Here we
show that in L. stagnalis, the chiral blastomere arrangement at the eight-cell
stage (but not the two- or four-cell stage) determines the left-right asymmetry
throughout the developmental programme, and acts upstream of the Nodal signalling
pathway. Thus, we could demonstrate that mechanical micromanipulation of the
third cleavage chirality (from the four- to the eight-cell stage) leads to
reversal of embryonic handedness. These manipulated embryos grew to 'dextralized'
sinistral and 'sinistralized' dextral snails-that is, normal healthy fertile
organisms with all the usual left-right asymmetries reversed to that encoded by
the mothers' genetic information. Moreover, manipulation reversed the embryonic
nodal expression patterns. Using backcrossed F(7) congenic animals, we could
demonstrate a strong genetic linkage between the handedness-determining gene(s)
and the chiral cytoskeletal dynamics at the third cleavage that promotes the
dominant-type blastomere arrangement. These results establish the crucial
importance of the maternally determined blastomere arrangement at the eight-cell 
stage in dictating zygotic signalling pathways in the organismal
chiromorphogenesis. Similar chiral blastomere configuration mechanisms may also
operate upstream of the Nodal pathway in left-right patterning of
deuterostomes/vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08597 
PMID: 19940849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):739-44. doi: 10.1038/nature08617.

Cancer-associated IDH1 mutations produce 2-hydroxyglutarate.

Dang L(1), White DW, Gross S, Bennett BD, Bittinger MA, Driggers EM, Fantin VR,
Jang HG, Jin S, Keenan MC, Marks KM, Prins RM, Ward PS, Yen KE, Liau LM,
Rabinowitz JD, Cantley LC, Thompson CB, Vander Heiden MG, Su SM.

Author information: 
(1)Agios Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Mutations in the enzyme cytosolic isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) are a common 
feature of a major subset of primary human brain cancers. These mutations occur
at a single amino acid residue of the IDH1 active site, resulting in loss of the 
enzyme's ability to catalyse conversion of isocitrate to alpha-ketoglutarate.
However, only a single copy of the gene is mutated in tumours, raising the
possibility that the mutations do not result in a simple loss of function. Here
we show that cancer-associated IDH1 mutations result in a new ability of the
enzyme to catalyse the NADPH-dependent reduction of alpha-ketoglutarate to
R(-)-2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG). Structural studies demonstrate that when arginine 
132 is mutated to histidine, residues in the active site are shifted to produce
structural changes consistent with reduced oxidative decarboxylation of
isocitrate and acquisition of the ability to convert alpha-ketoglutarate to 2HG. 
Excess accumulation of 2HG has been shown to lead to an elevated risk of
malignant brain tumours in patients with inborn errors of 2HG metabolism.
Similarly, in human malignant gliomas harbouring IDH1 mutations, we find markedly
elevated levels of 2HG. These data demonstrate that the IDH1 mutations result in 
production of the onco-metabolite 2HG, and indicate that the excess 2HG which
accumulates in vivo contributes to the formation and malignant progression of
gliomas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08617 
PMCID: PMC2818760
PMID: 19935646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):770-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08557.

A connection between star formation activity and cosmic rays in the starburst
galaxy M82.

VERITAS Collaboration.

Collaborators: Acciari VA, Aliu E, Arlen T, Aune T, Bautista M, Beilicke M,
Benbow W, Boltuch D, Bradbury SM, Buckley JH, Bugaev V, Byrum K, Cannon A, Celik 
O, Cesarini A, Chow YC, Ciupik L, Cogan P, Colin P, Cui W, Dickherber R, Duke C, 
Fegan SJ, Finley JP, Finnegan G, Fortin P, Fortson L, Furniss A, Galante N, Gall 
D, Gibbs K, Gillanders GH, Godambe S, Grube J, Guenette R, Gyuk G, Hanna D,
Holder J, Horan D, Hui CM, Humensky TB, Imran A, Kaaret P, Karlsson N, Kertzman
M, Kieda D, Kildea J, Konopelko A, Krawczynski H, Krennrich F, Lang MJ, LeBohec
S, Maier G, McArthur S, McCann A, McCutcheon M, Millis J, Moriarty P, Mukherjee
R, Nagai T, Ong RA, Otte AN, Pandel D, Perkins JS, Pizlo F, Pohl M, Quinn J,
Ragan K, Reyes LC, Reynolds PT, Roache E, Rose HJ, Schroedter M, Sembroski GH,
Smith AW, Steele D, Swordy SP, Theiling M, Thibadeau S, Varlotta A, Vassiliev VV,
Vincent S, Wagner RG, Wakely SP, Ward JE, Weekes TC, Weinstein A, Weisgarber T,
Williams DA, Wissel S, Wood M, Zitzer B.

Although Galactic cosmic rays (protons and nuclei) are widely believed to be
mainly accelerated by the winds and supernovae of massive stars, definitive
evidence of this origin remains elusive nearly a century after their discovery.
The active regions of starburst galaxies have exceptionally high rates of star
formation, and their large size-more than 50 times the diameter of similar
Galactic regions-uniquely enables reliable calorimetric measurements of their
potentially high cosmic-ray density. The cosmic rays produced in the formation,
life and death of massive stars in these regions are expected to produce diffuse 
gamma-ray emission through interactions with interstellar gas and radiation. M82,
the prototype small starburst galaxy, is predicted to be the brightest starburst 
galaxy in terms of gamma-ray emission. Here we report the detection of >700-GeV
gamma-rays from M82. From these data we determine a cosmic-ray density of 250 eV 
cm(-3) in the starburst core, which is about 500 times the average Galactic
density. This links cosmic-ray acceleration to star formation activity, and
suggests that supernovae and massive-star winds are the dominant accelerators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08557 
PMID: 19881491 


70. Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):757-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08558.

Crystal structure of a bacterial homologue of the kidney urea transporter.

Levin EJ(1), Quick M, Zhou M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, New York 10032,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 10;462(7274):733-4.

Urea is highly concentrated in the mammalian kidney to produce the osmotic
gradient necessary for water re-absorption. Free diffusion of urea across cell
membranes is slow owing to its high polarity, and specialized urea transporters
have evolved to achieve rapid and selective urea permeation. Here we present the 
2.3 A structure of a functional urea transporter from the bacterium Desulfovibrio
vulgaris. The transporter is a homotrimer, and each subunit contains a continuous
membrane-spanning pore formed by the two homologous halves of the protein. The
pore contains a constricted selectivity filter that can accommodate several
dehydrated urea molecules in single file. Backbone and side-chain oxygen atoms
provide continuous coordination of urea as it progresses through the filter, and 
well-placed alpha-helix dipoles provide further compensation for dehydration
energy. These results establish that the urea transporter operates by a
channel-like mechanism and reveal the physical and chemical basis of urea
selectivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08558 
PMCID: PMC2871279
PMID: 19865084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):669-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08615.

Hidden alternative structures of proline isomerase essential for catalysis.

Fraser JS(1), Clarkson MW, Degnan SC, Erion R, Kern D, Alber T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology/QB3, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720-3220, USA.

A long-standing challenge is to understand at the atomic level how protein
dynamics contribute to enzyme catalysis. X-ray crystallography can provide
snapshots of conformational substates sampled during enzymatic reactions, while
NMR relaxation methods reveal the rates of interconversion between substates and 
the corresponding relative populations. However, these current methods cannot
simultaneously reveal the detailed atomic structures of the rare states and
rationalize the finding that intrinsic motions in the free enzyme occur on a
timescale similar to the catalytic turnover rate. Here we introduce dual
strategies of ambient-temperature X-ray crystallographic data collection and
automated electron-density sampling to structurally unravel interconverting
substates of the human proline isomerase, cyclophilin A (CYPA, also known as
PPIA). A conservative mutation outside the active site was designed to stabilize 
features of the previously hidden minor conformation. This mutation not only
inverts the equilibrium between the substates, but also causes large, parallel
reductions in the conformational interconversion rates and the catalytic rate.
These studies introduce crystallographic approaches to define functional minor
protein conformations and, in combination with NMR analysis of the enzyme
dynamics in solution, show how collective motions directly contribute to the
catalytic power of an enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08615 
PMCID: PMC2805857
PMID: 19956261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):656-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08586.

Exceptional structured noncoding RNAs revealed by bacterial metagenome analysis.

Weinberg Z(1), Perreault J, Meyer MM, Breaker RR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8103, USA.

Estimates of the total number of bacterial species indicate that existing DNA
sequence databases carry only a tiny fraction of the total amount of DNA sequence
space represented by this division of life. Indeed, environmental DNA samples
have been shown to encode many previously unknown classes of proteins and RNAs.
Bioinformatics searches of genomic DNA from bacteria commonly identify new
noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) such as riboswitches. In rare instances, RNAs that
exhibit more extensive sequence and structural conservation across a wide range
of bacteria are encountered. Given that large structured RNAs are known to carry 
out complex biochemical functions such as protein synthesis and RNA processing
reactions, identifying more RNAs of great size and intricate structure is likely 
to reveal additional biochemical functions that can be achieved by RNA. We
applied an updated computational pipeline to discover ncRNAs that rival the known
large ribozymes in size and structural complexity or that are among the most
abundant RNAs in bacteria that encode them. These RNAs would have been difficult 
or impossible to detect without examining environmental DNA sequences, indicating
that numerous RNAs with extraordinary size, structural complexity, or other
exceptional characteristics remain to be discovered in unexplored sequence space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08586 
PMCID: PMC4140389
PMID: 19956260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):646-50. doi: 10.1038/nature08589.

Regulation of adaptive behaviour during fasting by hypothalamic Foxa2.

Silva JP(1), von Meyenn F, Howell J, Thorens B, Wolfrum C, Stoffel M.

Author information: 
(1)The Rockefeller University, Laboratory of Metabolic Diseases, 1230 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.

The lateral hypothalamic area is considered the classic 'feeding centre',
regulating food intake, arousal and motivated behaviour through the actions of
orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). These neuropeptides are inhibited
in response to feeding-related signals and are released during fasting. However, 
the molecular mechanisms that regulate and integrate these signals remain poorly 
understood. Here we show that the forkhead box transcription factor Foxa2, a
downstream target of insulin signalling, regulates the expression of orexin and
MCH. During fasting, Foxa2 binds to MCH and orexin promoters and stimulates their
expression. In fed and in hyperinsulinemic obese mice, insulin signalling leads
to nuclear exclusion of Foxa2 and reduced expression of MCH and orexin.
Constitutive activation of Foxa2 in the brain (Nes-Cre/+;Foxa2T156A(flox/flox)
genotype) results in increased neuronal MCH and orexin expression and increased
food consumption, metabolism and insulin sensitivity. Spontaneous physical
activity of these animals in the fed state is significantly increased and is
similar to that in fasted mice. Conditional activation of Foxa2 through the T156A
mutation expression in the brain of obese mice also resulted in improved glucose 
homeostasis, decreased fat and increased lean body mass. Our results demonstrate 
that Foxa2 can act as a metabolic sensor in neurons of the lateral hypothalamic
area to integrate metabolic signals, adaptive behaviour and physiological
responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08589 
PMID: 19956259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):642-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08553.

Common dependence on stress for the two fundamental laws of statistical
seismology.

Narteau C(1), Byrdina S, Shebalin P, Schorlemmer D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris (UMR 7154, CNRS, Univ. P7), 4 Place
Jussieu, 75252 Paris Cedex 05, France. narteau@ipgp.jussieu.fr

Two of the long-standing relationships of statistical seismology are power laws: 
the Gutenberg-Richter relation describing the earthquake frequency-magnitude
distribution, and the Omori-Utsu law characterizing the temporal decay of
aftershock rate following a main shock. Recently, the effect of stress on the
slope (the b value) of the earthquake frequency-magnitude distribution was
determined by investigations of the faulting-style dependence of the b value. In 
a similar manner, we study here aftershock sequences according to the faulting
style of their main shocks. We show that the time delay before the onset of the
power-law aftershock decay rate (the c value) is on average shorter for thrust
main shocks than for normal fault earthquakes, taking intermediate values for
strike-slip events. These similar dependences on the faulting style indicate that
both of the fundamental power laws are governed by the state of stress. Focal
mechanisms are known for only 2 per cent of aftershocks. Therefore, c and b
values are independent estimates and can be used as new tools to infer the stress
field, which remains difficult to measure directly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08553 
PMID: 19956258 


75. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):637-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08520.

Half-precessional dynamics of monsoon rainfall near the East African Equator.

Verschuren D(1), Sinninghe Damsté JS, Moernaut J, Kristen I, Blaauw M, Fagot M,
Haug GH; CHALLACEA project members.

Collaborators: van Geel B, De Batist M, Barker P, Vuille M, Conley DJ, Olago DO, 
Milne I, Plessen B, Eggermont H, Wolff C, Hurrell E, Ossebaar J, Lyaruu A, van
der Plicht J, Cumming BF, Brauer A, Rucina SM, Russell JM, Keppens E, Hus J,
Bradley RS, Leng M, Mingram J, Nowaczyk NR.

Author information: 
(1)Limnology Unit, Department of Biology, Ghent University, Ledeganckstraat 35,
9000 Gent, Belgium. dirk.verschuren@UGent.be

External climate forcings-such as long-term changes in solar insolation-generate 
different climate responses in tropical and high latitude regions. Documenting
the spatial and temporal variability of past climates is therefore critical for
understanding how such forcings are translated into regional climate variability.
In contrast to the data-rich middle and high latitudes, high-quality
climate-proxy records from equatorial regions are relatively few, especially from
regions experiencing the bimodal seasonal rainfall distribution associated with
twice-annual passage of the Intertropical Convergence Zone. Here we present a
continuous and well-resolved climate-proxy record of hydrological variability
during the past 25,000 years from equatorial East Africa. Our results, based on
complementary evidence from seismic-reflection stratigraphy and organic biomarker
molecules in the sediment record of Lake Challa near Mount Kilimanjaro, reveal
that monsoon rainfall in this region varied at half-precessional ( approximately 
11,500-year) intervals in phase with orbitally controlled insolation forcing. The
southeasterly and northeasterly monsoons that advect moisture from the western
Indian Ocean were strengthened in alternation when the inter-hemispheric
insolation gradient was at a maximum; dry conditions prevailed when neither
monsoon was intensified and modest local March or September insolation weakened
the rain season that followed. On sub-millennial timescales, the temporal pattern
of hydrological change on the East African Equator bears clear
high-northern-latitude signatures, but on the orbital timescale it mainly
responded to low-latitude insolation forcing. Predominance of low-latitude
climate processes in this monsoon region can be attributed to the low-latitude
position of its continental regions of surface air flow convergence, and its
relative isolation from the Atlantic Ocean, where prominent meridional
overturning circulation more tightly couples low-latitude climate regimes to
high-latitude boundary conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08520 
PMID: 19956257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):628-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08609.

Synthetic magnetic fields for ultracold neutral atoms.

Lin YJ(1), Compton RL, Jiménez-García K, Porto JV, Spielman IB.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Quantum Institute, National Institute of Standards and Technology, and
University of Maryland, Gaithersburg, Maryland, 20899, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):584-5.

Neutral atomic Bose condensates and degenerate Fermi gases have been used to
realize important many-body phenomena in their most simple and essential forms,
without many of the complexities usually associated with material systems.
However, the charge neutrality of these systems presents an apparent limitation-a
wide range of intriguing phenomena arise from the Lorentz force for charged
particles in a magnetic field, such as the fractional quantum Hall effect in
two-dimensional electron systems. The limitation can be circumvented by
exploiting the equivalence of the Lorentz force and the Coriolis force to create 
synthetic magnetic fields in rotating neutral systems. This was demonstrated by
the appearance of quantized vortices in pioneering experiments on rotating
quantum gases, a hallmark of superfluids or superconductors in a magnetic field. 
However, because of technical issues limiting the maximum rotation velocity, the 
metastable nature of the rotating state and the difficulty of applying stable
rotating optical lattices, rotational approaches are not able to reach the large 
fields required for quantum Hall physics. Here we experimentally realize an
optically synthesized magnetic field for ultracold neutral atoms, which is
evident from the appearance of vortices in our Bose-Einstein condensate. Our
approach uses a spatially dependent optical coupling between internal states of
the atoms, yielding a Berry's phase sufficient to create large synthetic magnetic
fields, and is not subject to the limitations of rotating systems. With a
suitable lattice configuration, it should be possible to reach the quantum Hall
regime, potentially enabling studies of topological quantum computation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08609 
PMID: 19956256 


77. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):624-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08579.

Supernova 2007bi as a pair-instability explosion.

Gal-Yam A(1), Mazzali P, Ofek EO, Nugent PE, Kulkarni SR, Kasliwal MM, Quimby RM,
Filippenko AV, Cenko SB, Chornock R, Waldman R, Kasen D, Sullivan M, Beshore EC, 
Drake AJ, Thomas RC, Bloom JS, Poznanski D, Miller AA, Foley RJ, Silverman JM,
Arcavi I, Ellis RS, Deng J.

Author information: 
(1)Benoziyo Center for Astrophysics, Faculty of Physics, The Weizmann Institute
of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. avishay.gal-yam@weizmann.ac.il

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):579-80.

Stars with initial masses such that 10M[symbol: see text] <or= M(initial) <or=
100M[symbol: see text], where M[symbol: see text] is the solar mass, fuse
progressively heavier elements in their centres, until the core is inert iron.
The core then gravitationally collapses to a neutron star or a black hole,
leading to an explosion-an iron-core-collapse supernova. By contrast, extremely
massive stars with M(initial) >or= 140M[symbol: see text] (if such exist) develop
oxygen cores with masses, M(core), that exceed 50M[symbol: see text], where high 
temperatures are reached at relatively low densities. Conversion of energetic,
pressure-supporting photons into electron-positron pairs occurs before oxygen
ignition and leads to a violent contraction which triggers a nuclear explosion
that unbinds the star in a pair-instability supernova. Transitional objects with 
100M[symbol: see text] < M(initial) < 140M[symbol: see text] may end up as
iron-core-collapse supernovae following violent mass ejections, perhaps as a
result of brief episodes of pair instability, and may already have been
identified. Here we report observations of supernova SN 2007bi, a luminous,
slowly evolving object located within a dwarf galaxy. We estimate the exploding
core mass to be M(core) approximately 100M[symbol: see text], in which case
theory unambiguously predicts a pair-instability supernova. We show that
>3M[symbol: see text] of radioactive (56)Ni was synthesized during the explosion 
and that our observations are well fitted by models of pair-instability
supernovae. This indicates that nearby dwarf galaxies probably host extremely
massive stars, above the apparent Galactic stellar mass limit, which perhaps
result from processes similar to those that created the first stars in the
Universe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08579 
PMID: 19956255 


78. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):615-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08595.

Detection of sequential polyubiquitylation on a millisecond timescale.

Pierce NW(1), Kleiger G, Shan SO, Deshaies RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Biology, MC 156-29, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):585-6.

The pathway by which ubiquitin chains are generated on substrate through a
cascade of enzymes consisting of an E1, E2 and E3 remains unclear. Multiple
distinct models involving chain assembly on E2 or substrate have been proposed.
However, the speed and complexity of the reaction have precluded direct
experimental tests to distinguish between potential pathways. Here we introduce
new theoretical and experimental methodologies to address both limitations. A
quantitative framework based on product distribution predicts that the really
interesting new gene (RING) E3 enzymes SCF(Cdc4) and SCF(beta-TrCP) work with the
E2 Cdc34 to build polyubiquitin chains on substrates by sequential transfers of
single ubiquitins. Measurements with millisecond time resolution directly
demonstrate that substrate polyubiquitylation proceeds sequentially. Our results 
present an unprecedented glimpse into the mechanism of RING ubiquitin ligases and
illuminate the quantitative parameters that underlie the rate and pattern of
ubiquitin chain assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08595 
PMCID: PMC2791906
PMID: 19956254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):587-94. doi: 10.1038/nature08533.

Forcing cells to change lineages.

Graf T(1), Enver T.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genomic Regulation and ICREA, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
thomas.graf@crg.es

The ability to produce stem cells by induced pluripotency (iPS reprogramming) has
rekindled an interest in earlier studies showing that transcription factors can
directly convert specialized cells from one lineage to another. Lineage
reprogramming has become a powerful tool to study cell fate choice during
differentiation, akin to inducing mutations for the discovery of gene functions. 
The lessons learnt provide a rubric for how cells may be manipulated for
therapeutic purposes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08533 
PMID: 19956253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):620-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08578. Epub 2009 Nov 22.

Extreme particle acceleration in the microquasar Cygnus X-3.

Tavani M(1), Bulgarelli A, Piano G, Sabatini S, Striani E, Evangelista Y, Trois
A, Pooley G, Trushkin S, Nizhelskij NA, McCollough M, Koljonen KI, Pucella G,
Giuliani A, Chen AW, Costa E, Vittorini V, Trifoglio M, Gianotti F, Argan A,
Barbiellini G, Caraveo P, Cattaneo PW, Cocco V, Contessi T, D'Ammando F, Del
Monte E, De Paris G, Di Cocco G, Di Persio G, Donnarumma I, Feroci M, Ferrari A, 
Fuschino F, Galli M, Labanti C, Lapshov I, Lazzarotto F, Lipari P, Longo F,
Mattaini E, Marisaldi M, Mastropietro M, Mauri A, Mereghetti S, Morelli E,
Morselli A, Pacciani L, Pellizzoni A, Perotti F, Picozza P, Pilia M, Prest M,
Rapisarda M, Rappoldi A, Rossi E, Rubini A, Scalise E, Soffitta P, Vallazza E,
Vercellone S, Zambra A, Zanello D, Pittori C, Verrecchia F, Giommi P,
Colafrancesco S, Santolamazza P, Antonelli A, Salotti L.

Author information: 
(1)INAF-IASF Roma, Via del Fosso del Cavaliere 100, I-00133 Roma, Italy.
pi.agile@iasf-roma.inaf.it

Super-massive black holes in active galaxies can accelerate particles to
relativistic energies, producing jets with associated gamma-ray emission.
Galactic 'microquasars', which are binary systems consisting of a neutron star or
stellar-mass black hole accreting gas from a companion star, also produce
relativistic jets, generally together with radio flares. Apart from an isolated
event detected in Cygnus X-1, there has hitherto been no systematic evidence for 
the acceleration of particles to gigaelectronvolt or higher energies in a
microquasar, with the consequence that we are as yet unsure about the mechanism
of jet energization. Here we report four gamma-ray flares with energies above 100
MeV from the microquasar Cygnus X-3 (an exceptional X-ray binary that
sporadically produces radio jets). There is a clear pattern of temporal
correlations between the gamma-ray flares and transitional spectral states of the
radio-frequency and X-ray emission. Particle acceleration occurred a few days
before radio-jet ejections for two of the four flares, meaning that the process
of jet formation implies the production of very energetic particles. In Cygnus
X-3, particle energies during the flares can be thousands of times higher than
during quiescent states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08578 
PMID: 19935645 


81. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):660-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08599. Epub 2009 Nov 18.

In vitro reconstitution of an abscisic acid signalling pathway.

Fujii H(1), Chinnusamy V, Rodrigues A, Rubio S, Antoni R, Park SY, Cutler SR,
Sheen J, Rodriguez PL, Zhu JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, University of California at
Riverside, Riverside, California 92521, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):575-6.

The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates the expression of many genes in
plants; it has critical functions in stress resistance and in growth and
development. Several proteins have been reported to function as ABA receptors,
and many more are known to be involved in ABA signalling. However, the identities
of ABA receptors remain controversial and the mechanism of signalling from
perception to downstream gene expression is unclear. Here we show that by
combining the recently identified ABA receptor PYR1 with the type 2C protein
phosphatase (PP2C) ABI1, the serine/threonine protein kinase SnRK2.6/OST1 and the
transcription factor ABF2/AREB1, we can reconstitute ABA-triggered
phosphorylation of the transcription factor in vitro. Introduction of these four 
components into plant protoplasts results in ABA-responsive gene expression.
Protoplast and test-tube reconstitution assays were used to test the function of 
various members of the receptor, protein phosphatase and kinase families. Our
results suggest that the default state of the SnRK2 kinases is an
autophosphorylated, active state and that the SnRK2 kinases are kept inactive by 
the PP2Cs through physical interaction and dephosphorylation. We found that in
the presence of ABA, the PYR/PYL (pyrabactin resistance 1/PYR1-like) receptor
proteins can disrupt the interaction between the SnRK2s and PP2Cs, thus
preventing the PP2C-mediated dephosphorylation of the SnRK2s and resulting in the
activation of the SnRK2 kinases. Our results reveal new insights into ABA
signalling mechanisms and define a minimal set of core components of a complete
major ABA signalling pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08599 
PMCID: PMC2803041
PMID: 19924127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):633-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08584. Epub 2009 Nov 15.

Controlling photonic structures using optical forces.

Wiederhecker GS(1), Chen L, Gondarenko A, Lipson M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York 14853, USA.

The use of optical forces to manipulate small objects is well known. Applications
include the manipulation of living cells by optical tweezers and optical cooling 
in atomic physics. The miniaturization of optical systems (to the micro and
nanoscale) has resulted in very compliant systems with masses of the order of
nanograms, rendering them susceptible to optical forces. Optical forces have been
exploited to demonstrate chaotic quivering of microcavities, optical cooling of
mechanical modes, actuation of a tapered-fibre waveguide and excitation of the
mechanical modes of silicon nano-beams. Despite recent progress in this field, it
is challenging to manipulate the optical response of photonic structures using
optical forces; this is because of the large forces that are required to induce
appreciable changes in the geometry of the structure. Here we implement a
resonant structure whose optical response can be efficiently statically
controlled using relatively weak attractive and repulsive optical forces. We
demonstrate a static mechanical deformation of up to 20 nanometres in a silicon
nitride structure, using three milliwatts of continuous optical power. Because of
the sensitivity of the optical response to this deformation, such optically
induced static displacement introduces resonance shifts spanning 80 times the
intrinsic resonance linewidth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08584 
PMID: 19915549 


83. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):651-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08505. Epub 2009 Nov 15.

Injury-induced mechanical hypersensitivity requires C-low threshold
mechanoreceptors.

Seal RP(1), Wang X, Guan Y, Raja SN, Woodbury CJ, Basbaum AI, Edwards RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, San Francisco School of
Medicine, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):580-1.

Mechanical pain contributes to the morbidity associated with inflammation and
trauma, but primary sensory neurons that convey the sensation of acute and
persistent mechanical pain have not been identified. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG)
neurons transmit sensory information to the spinal cord using the excitatory
transmitter glutamate, a process that depends on glutamate transport into
synaptic vesicles for regulated exocytotic release. Here we report that a small
subset of cells in the DRG expresses the low abundance vesicular glutamate
transporter VGLUT3 (also known as SLC17A8). In the dorsal horn of the spinal
cord, these afferents project to lamina I and the innermost layer of lamina II,
which has previously been implicated in persistent pain caused by injury. Because
the different VGLUT isoforms generally have a non-redundant pattern of
expression, we used Vglut3 knockout mice to assess the role of VGLUT3(+) primary 
afferents in the behavioural response to somatosensory input. The loss of VGLUT3 
specifically impairs mechanical pain sensation, and in particular the mechanical 
hypersensitivity to normally innocuous stimuli that accompanies inflammation,
nerve injury and trauma. Direct recording from VGLUT3(+) neurons in the DRG
further identifies them as a poorly understood population of unmyelinated, low
threshold mechanoreceptors (C-LTMRs). The analysis of Vglut3(-/-) mice now
indicates a critical role for C-LTMRs in the mechanical hypersensitivity caused
by injury.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08505 
PMCID: PMC2810205
PMID: 19915548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):665-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08591. Epub 2009 Nov 8.

The abscisic acid receptor PYR1 in complex with abscisic acid.

Santiago J(1), Dupeux F, Round A, Antoni R, Park SY, Jamin M, Cutler SR,
Rodriguez PL, Márquez JA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular de Plantas, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas-Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, ES-46022
Valencia, Spain.

The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) has a central role in coordinating the
adaptive response in situations of decreased water availability as well as the
regulation of plant growth and development. Recently, a 14-member family of
intracellular ABA receptors, named PYR/PYL/RCAR, has been identified. These
proteins inhibit in an ABA-dependent manner the activity of a family of key
negative regulators of the ABA signalling pathway: the group-A protein
phosphatases type 2C (PP2Cs). Here we present the crystal structure of
Arabidopsis thaliana PYR1, which consists of a dimer in which one of the subunits
is bound to ABA. In the ligand-bound subunit, the loops surrounding the entry to 
the binding cavity fold over the ABA molecule, enclosing it inside, whereas in
the empty subunit they form a channel leaving an open access to the cavity,
indicating that conformational changes in these loops have a critical role in the
stabilization of the hormone-receptor complex. By providing structural details on
the ABA-binding pocket, this work paves the way for the development of new small 
molecules able to activate the plant stress response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08591 
PMID: 19898494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):595-601. doi: 10.1038/nature08592. Epub 2009 Nov 8.

Direct cell reprogramming is a stochastic process amenable to acceleration.

Hanna J(1), Saha K, Pando B, van Zon J, Lengner CJ, Creyghton MP, van Oudenaarden
A, Jaenisch R.

Author information: 
(1)The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA. Hanna@wi.mit.edu

Direct reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells
can be achieved by overexpression of Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc transcription
factors, but only a minority of donor somatic cells can be reprogrammed to
pluripotency. Here we demonstrate that reprogramming by these transcription
factors is a continuous stochastic process where almost all mouse donor cells
eventually give rise to iPS cells on continued growth and transcription factor
expression. Additional inhibition of the p53/p21 pathway or overexpression of
Lin28 increased the cell division rate and resulted in an accelerated kinetics of
iPS cell formation that was directly proportional to the increase in cell
proliferation. In contrast, Nanog overexpression accelerated reprogramming in a
predominantly cell-division-rate-independent manner. Quantitative analyses define
distinct cell-division-rate-dependent and -independent modes for accelerating the
stochastic course of reprogramming, and suggest that the number of cell divisions
is a key parameter driving epigenetic reprogramming to pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08592 
PMCID: PMC2789972
PMID: 19898493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):602-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08613.

A gate-latch-lock mechanism for hormone signalling by abscisic acid receptors.

Melcher K(1), Ng LM, Zhou XE, Soon FF, Xu Y, Suino-Powell KM, Park SY, Weiner JJ,
Fujii H, Chinnusamy V, Kovach A, Li J, Wang Y, Li J, Peterson FC, Jensen DR, Yong
EL, Volkman BF, Cutler SR, Zhu JK, Xu HE.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Sciences, Van Andel Research Institute, 333 Bostwick 
Avenue, N.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49503, USA.

Abscisic acid (ABA) is a ubiquitous hormone that regulates plant growth,
development and responses to environmental stresses. Its action is mediated by
the PYR/PYL/RCAR family of START proteins, but it remains unclear how these
receptors bind ABA and, in turn, how hormone binding leads to inhibition of the
downstream type 2C protein phosphatase (PP2C) effectors. Here we report crystal
structures of apo and ABA-bound receptors as well as a ternary PYL2-ABA-PP2C
complex. The apo receptors contain an open ligand-binding pocket flanked by a
gate that closes in response to ABA by way of conformational changes in two
highly conserved beta-loops that serve as a gate and latch. Moreover, ABA-induced
closure of the gate creates a surface that enables the receptor to dock into and 
competitively inhibit the PP2C active site. A conserved tryptophan in the PP2C
inserts directly between the gate and latch, which functions to further lock the 
receptor in a closed conformation. Together, our results identify a conserved
gate-latch-lock mechanism underlying ABA signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08613 
PMCID: PMC2810868
PMID: 19898420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):609-14. doi: 10.1038/nature08583.

Structural basis of abscisic acid signalling.

Miyazono K(1), Miyakawa T, Sawano Y, Kubota K, Kang HJ, Asano A, Miyauchi Y,
Takahashi M, Zhi Y, Fujita Y, Yoshida T, Kodaira KS, Yamaguchi-Shinozaki K,
Tanokura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural
and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.

The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) mediates the adaptation of plants to
environmental stresses such as drought and regulates developmental signals such
as seed maturation. Within plants, the PYR/PYL/RCAR family of START proteins
receives ABA to inhibit the phosphatase activity of the group-A protein
phosphatases 2C (PP2Cs), which are major negative regulators in ABA signalling.
Here we present the crystal structures of the ABA receptor PYL1 bound with
(+)-ABA, and the complex formed by the further binding of (+)-ABA-bound PYL1 with
the PP2C protein ABI1. PYL1 binds (+)-ABA using the START-protein-specific
ligand-binding site, thereby forming a hydrophobic pocket on the surface of the
closed lid. (+)-ABA-bound PYL1 tightly interacts with a PP2C domain of ABI1 by
using the hydrophobic pocket to cover the active site of ABI1 like a plug. Our
results reveal the structural basis of the mechanism of (+)-ABA-dependent
inhibition of ABI1 by PYL1 in ABA signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08583 
PMID: 19855379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):522-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08576.

Innate immune and chemically triggered oxidative stress modifies translational
fidelity.

Netzer N(1), Goodenbour JM, David A, Dittmar KA, Jones RB, Schneider JR, Boone D,
Eves EM, Rosner MR, Gibbs JS, Embry A, Dolan B, Das S, Hickman HD, Berglund P,
Bennink JR, Yewdell JW, Pan T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Translational fidelity, essential for protein and cell function, requires
accurate transfer RNA (tRNA) aminoacylation. Purified aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases 
exhibit a fidelity of one error per 10,000 to 100,000 couplings. The accuracy of 
tRNA aminoacylation in vivo is uncertain, however, and might be considerably
lower. Here we show that in mammalian cells, approximately 1% of methionine (Met)
residues used in protein synthesis are aminoacylated to non-methionyl-tRNAs.
Remarkably, Met-misacylation increases up to tenfold upon exposing cells to live 
or non-infectious viruses, toll-like receptor ligands or chemically induced
oxidative stress. Met is misacylated to specific non-methionyl-tRNA families, and
these Met-misacylated tRNAs are used in translation. Met-misacylation is blocked 
by an inhibitor of cellular oxidases, implicating reactive oxygen species (ROS)
as the misacylation trigger. Among six amino acids tested, tRNA misacylation
occurs exclusively with Met. As Met residues are known to protect proteins
against ROS-mediated damage, we propose that Met-misacylation functions
adaptively to increase Met incorporation into proteins to protect cells against
oxidative stress. In demonstrating an unexpected conditional aspect of decoding
mRNA, our findings illustrate the importance of considering alternative
iterations of the genetic code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08576 
PMCID: PMC2785853
PMID: 19940929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):518-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08587.

An ancient light-harvesting protein is critical for the regulation of algal
photosynthesis.

Peers G(1), Truong TB, Ostendorf E, Busch A, Elrad D, Grossman AR, Hippler M,
Niyogi KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-3102, USA.

Light is necessary for photosynthesis, but its absorption by pigment molecules
such as chlorophyll can cause severe oxidative damage and result in cell death.
The excess absorption of light energy by photosynthetic pigments has led to the
evolution of protective mechanisms that operate on the timescale of seconds to
minutes and involve feedback-regulated de-excitation of chlorophyll molecules in 
photosystem II (qE). Despite the significant contribution of eukaryotic algae to 
global primary production, little is known about their qE mechanism, in contrast 
to that in flowering plants. Here we show that a qE-deficient mutant of the
unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, npq4, lacks two of the three
genes encoding LHCSR (formerly called LI818). This protein is an ancient member
of the light-harvesting complex superfamily, and orthologues are found throughout
photosynthetic eukaryote taxa, except in red algae and vascular plants. The qE
capacity of Chlamydomonas is dependent on environmental conditions and is
inducible by growth under high light conditions. We show that the fitness of the 
npq4 mutant in a shifting light environment is reduced compared to wild-type
cells, demonstrating that LHCSR is required for survival in a dynamic light
environment. Thus, these data indicate that plants and algae use different
proteins to dissipate harmful excess light energy and protect the photosynthetic 
apparatus from damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08587 
PMID: 19940928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):514-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08594.

Host plant genome overcomes the lack of a bacterial gene for symbiotic nitrogen
fixation.

Hakoyama T(1), Niimi K, Watanabe H, Tabata R, Matsubara J, Sato S, Nakamura Y,
Tabata S, Jichun L, Matsumoto T, Tatsumi K, Nomura M, Tajima S, Ishizaka M, Yano 
K, Imaizumi-Anraku H, Kawaguchi M, Kouchi H, Suganuma N.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8602,
Japan.

Homocitrate is a component of the iron-molybdenum cofactor in nitrogenase, where 
nitrogen fixation occurs. NifV, which encodes homocitrate synthase (HCS), has
been identified from various diazotrophs but is not present in most rhizobial
species that perform efficient nitrogen fixation only in symbiotic association
with legumes. Here we show that the FEN1 gene of a model legume, Lotus japonicus,
overcomes the lack of NifV in rhizobia for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. A Fix(-) 
(non-fixing) plant mutant, fen1, forms morphologically normal but ineffective
nodules. The causal gene, FEN1, was shown to encode HCS by its ability to
complement a HCS-defective mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Homocitrate was
present abundantly in wild-type nodules but was absent from ineffective fen1
nodules. Inoculation with Mesorhizobium loti carrying FEN1 or Azotobacter
vinelandii NifV rescued the defect in nitrogen-fixing activity of the fen1
nodules. Exogenous supply of homocitrate also recovered the nitrogen-fixing
activity of the fen1 nodules through de novo nitrogenase synthesis in the
rhizobial bacteroids. These results indicate that homocitrate derived from the
host plant cells is essential for the efficient and continuing synthesis of the
nitrogenase system in endosymbionts, and thus provide a molecular basis for the
complementary and indispensable partnership between legumes and rhizobia in
symbiotic nitrogen fixation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08594 
PMID: 19940927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):505-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08596.

Central control of fever and female body temperature by RANKL/RANK.

Hanada R(1), Leibbrandt A, Hanada T, Kitaoka S, Furuyashiki T, Fujihara H,
Trichereau J, Paolino M, Qadri F, Plehm R, Klaere S, Komnenovic V, Mimata H,
Yoshimatsu H, Takahashi N, von Haeseler A, Bader M, Kilic SS, Ueta Y, Pifl C,
Narumiya S, Penninger JM.

Author information: 
(1)IMBA, Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of
Sciences, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Receptor-activator of NF-kappaB ligand (TNFSF11, also known as RANKL, OPGL,
TRANCE and ODF) and its tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-family receptor RANK are
essential regulators of bone remodelling, lymph node organogenesis and formation 
of a lactating mammary gland. RANKL and RANK are also expressed in the central
nervous system. However, the functional relevance of RANKL/RANK in the brain was 
entirely unknown. Here we report that RANKL and RANK have an essential role in
the brain. In both mice and rats, central RANKL injections trigger severe fever. 
Using tissue-specific Nestin-Cre and GFAP-Cre rank(floxed) deleter mice, the
function of RANK in the fever response was genetically mapped to astrocytes.
Importantly, Nestin-Cre and GFAP-Cre rank(floxed) deleter mice are resistant to
lipopolysaccharide-induced fever as well as fever in response to the key
inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and TNFalpha. Mechanistically, RANKL activates
brain regions involved in thermoregulation and induces fever via the
COX2-PGE(2)/EP3R pathway. Moreover, female Nestin-Cre and GFAP-Cre rank(floxed)
mice exhibit increased basal body temperatures, suggesting that RANKL and RANK
control thermoregulation during normal female physiology. We also show that two
children with RANK mutations exhibit impaired fever during pneumonia. These data 
identify an entirely novel and unexpected function for the key osteoclast
differentiation factors RANKL/RANK in female thermoregulation and the central
fever response in inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08596 
PMID: 19940926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):502-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08572.

Aero-tactile integration in speech perception.

Gick B(1), Derrick D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Linguistics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada. gick@interchange.ubc.ca

Visual information from a speaker's face can enhance or interfere with accurate
auditory perception. This integration of information across auditory and visual
streams has been observed in functional imaging studies, and has typically been
attributed to the frequency and robustness with which perceivers jointly
encounter event-specific information from these two modalities. Adding the
tactile modality has long been considered a crucial next step in understanding
multisensory integration. However, previous studies have found an influence of
tactile input on speech perception only under limited circumstances, either where
perceivers were aware of the task or where they had received training to
establish a cross-modal mapping. Here we show that perceivers integrate
naturalistic tactile information during auditory speech perception without
previous training. Drawing on the observation that some speech sounds produce
tiny bursts of aspiration (such as English 'p'), we applied slight, inaudible air
puffs on participants' skin at one of two locations: the right hand or the neck. 
Syllables heard simultaneously with cutaneous air puffs were more likely to be
heard as aspirated (for example, causing participants to mishear 'b' as 'p').
These results demonstrate that perceivers integrate event-relevant tactile
information in auditory perception in much the same way as they do visual
information.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08572 
PMCID: PMC3662541
PMID: 19940925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):499-501. doi: 10.1038/nature08552.

Convective upwelling in the mantle beneath the Gulf of California.

Wang Y(1), Forsyth DW, Savage B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 
02912, USA. yun_wang@brown.edu

In the past six million years, Baja California has rifted obliquely apart from
North America, opening up the Gulf of California. Between transform faults,
seafloor spreading and rifting is well established in several basins. Other than 
hotspot-dominated Iceland, the Gulf of California is the only part of the world's
seafloor-spreading system that has been surrounded by enough seismometers to
provide horizontal resolution of upper-mantle structure at a scale of 100
kilometres over a distance great enough to include several spreading segments.
Such resolution is needed to address the long-standing debate about the relative 
importance of dynamic and passive upwelling in the shallow mantle beneath
spreading centres. Here we use Rayleigh-wave tomography to image the shear
velocity in the upper 200 kilometres or so of the mantle. Low shear velocities
similar to those beneath the East Pacific Rise oceanic spreading centre underlie 
the entire length of the Gulf, but there are three concentrated locations of
anomalously low velocities spaced about 250 kilometres apart. These anomalies are
40 to 90 kilometres beneath the surface, at which depths petrological studies
indicate that extensive melting of passively upwelling mantle should begin. We
interpret these seismic velocity anomalies as indicating that partial melting
triggers dynamic upwelling driven by either the buoyancy of retained melt or by
the reduced density of depleted mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08552 
PMID: 19940924 


94. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):495-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08519.

Increase in Agulhas leakage due to poleward shift of Southern Hemisphere
westerlies.

Biastoch A(1), Böning CW, Schwarzkopf FU, Lutjeharms JR.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz-Institut für Meereswissenschaften, Düsternbrooker Weg 20, 24105 Kiel, 
Germany. abiastoch@ifm-geomar.de

The transport of warm and salty Indian Ocean waters into the Atlantic Ocean-the
Agulhas leakage-has a crucial role in the global oceanic circulation and thus the
evolution of future climate. At present these waters provide the main source of
heat and salt for the surface branch of the Atlantic meridional overturning
circulation (MOC). There is evidence from past glacial-to-interglacial variations
in foraminiferal assemblages and model studies that the amount of Agulhas leakage
and its corresponding effect on the MOC has been subject to substantial change,
potentially linked to latitudinal shifts in the Southern Hemisphere westerlies. A
progressive poleward migration of the westerlies has been observed during the
past two to three decades and linked to anthropogenic forcing, but because of the
sparse observational records it has not been possible to determine whether there 
has been a concomitant response of Agulhas leakage. Here we present the results
of a high-resolution ocean general circulation model to show that the transport
of Indian Ocean waters into the South Atlantic via the Agulhas leakage has
increased during the past decades in response to the change in wind forcing. The 
increased leakage has contributed to the observed salinification of South
Atlantic thermocline waters. Both model and historic measurements off South
America suggest that the additional Indian Ocean waters have begun to invade the 
North Atlantic, with potential implications for the future evolution of the MOC.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08519 
PMID: 19940923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):491-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08570.

Electrical creation of spin polarization in silicon at room temperature.

Dash SP(1), Sharma S, Patel RS, de Jong MP, Jansen R.

Author information: 
(1)MESA+ Institute for Nanotechnology, University of Twente, 7500 AE Enschede,
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):419-20.

The control and manipulation of the electron spin in semiconductors is central to
spintronics, which aims to represent digital information using spin orientation
rather than electron charge. Such spin-based technologies may have a profound
impact on nanoelectronics, data storage, and logic and computer architectures.
Recently it has become possible to induce and detect spin polarization in
otherwise non-magnetic semiconductors (gallium arsenide and silicon) using
all-electrical structures, but so far only at temperatures below 150 K and in
n-type materials, which limits further development. Here we demonstrate
room-temperature electrical injection of spin polarization into n-type and p-type
silicon from a ferromagnetic tunnel contact, spin manipulation using the Hanle
effect and the electrical detection of the induced spin accumulation. A spin
splitting as large as 2.9 meV is created in n-type silicon, corresponding to an
electron spin polarization of 4.6%. The extracted spin lifetime is greater than
140 ps for conduction electrons in heavily doped n-type silicon at 300 K and
greater than 270 ps for holes in heavily doped p-type silicon at the same
temperature. The spin diffusion length is greater than 230 nm for electrons and
310 nm for holes in the corresponding materials. These results open the way to
the implementation of spin functionality in complementary silicon devices and
electronic circuits operating at ambient temperature, and to the exploration of
their prospects and the fundamental rules that govern their behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08570 
PMID: 19940922 


96. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):487-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08566.

Two-dimensional normal-state quantum oscillations in a superconducting
heterostructure.

Kozuka Y(1), Kim M, Bell C, Kim BG, Hikita Y, Hwang HY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Advanced Materials Science, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba 
277-8561, Japan.

Semiconductor heterostructures provide an ideal platform for studying
high-mobility, low-density electrons in reduced dimensions. The realization of
superconductivity in heavily doped diamond, silicon, silicon carbide and
germanium suggests that Cooper pairs eventually may be directly incorporated in
semiconductor heterostructures, but these newly discovered superconductors are
currently limited by their extremely large electronic disorder. Similarly, the
electron mean free path in low-dimensional superconducting thin films is usually 
limited by interface scattering, in single-crystal or polycrystalline samples, or
atomic-scale disorder, in amorphous materials, confining these examples to the
extreme 'dirty limit'. Here we report the fabrication of a high-quality
superconducting layer within a thin-film heterostructure based on SrTiO(3) (the
first known superconducting semiconductor). By selectively doping a narrow region
of SrTiO(3) with the electron-donor niobium, we form a superconductor that is
two-dimensional, as probed by the anisotropy of the upper critical magnetic
field. Unlike in previous examples, however, the electron mobility is high enough
that the normal-state resistance exhibits Shubnikov-de Haas oscillations that
scale with the perpendicular field, indicating two-dimensional states. These
results suggest that delta-doped SrTiO(3) provides a model system in which to
explore the quantum transport and interplay of both superconducting and normal
electrons. They also demonstrate that high-quality complex oxide heterostructures
can maintain electron coherence on the macroscopic scales probed by transport, as
well as on the microscopic scales demonstrated previously.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08566 
PMID: 19940921 


97. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):483-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08581.

The cluster Terzan 5 as a remnant of a primordial building block of the Galactic 
bulge.

Ferraro FR(1), Dalessandro E, Mucciarelli A, Beccari G, Rich RM, Origlia L,
Lanzoni B, Rood RT, Valenti E, Bellazzini M, Ransom SM, Cocozza G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Bologna, Via Ranzani, 1, 40127 Bologna,
Italy. francesco.ferraro3@unibo.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):421-2.

Globular star clusters are compact and massive stellar systems old enough to have
witnessed the entire history of our Galaxy, the Milky Way. Although recent
results suggest that their formation may have been more complex than previously
thought, they still are the best approximation to a stellar population formed
over a relatively short timescale (less than 1 Gyr) and with virtually no
dispersion in the iron content. Indeed, only one cluster-like system (omega
Centauri) in the Galactic halo is known to have multiple stellar populations with
a significant spread in iron abundance and age. Similar findings in the Galactic 
bulge have been hampered by the obscuration arising from thick and varying layers
of interstellar dust. Here we report that Terzan 5, a globular-cluster-like
system in the Galactic bulge, has two stellar populations with different iron
contents and ages. Terzan 5 could be the surviving remnant of one of the
primordial building blocks that are thought to merge and form galaxy bulges.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08581 
PMID: 19940920 


98. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):480-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08565.

Enrichment by supernovae in globular clusters with multiple populations.

Lee JW(1), Kang YW, Lee J, Lee YW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and Space Science, ARCSEC, Sejong University, Seoul
143-747, Korea. jaewoolee@sejong.ac.kr

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):421-2.

The most massive globular cluster in the Milky Way, omega Centauri, is thought to
be the remaining core of a disrupted dwarf galaxy, as expected within the model
of hierarchical merging. It contains several stellar populations having different
heavy elemental abundances supplied by supernovae-a process known as metal
enrichment. Although M 22 appears to be similar to omega Cen, other peculiar
globular clusters do not. Therefore omega Cen and M 22 are viewed as exceptional,
and the presence of chemical inhomogeneities in other clusters is seen as
'pollution' from the intermediate-mass asymptotic-giant-branch stars expected in 
normal globular clusters. Here we report Ca abundances for seven globular
clusters and compare them to omega Cen. Calcium and other heavy elements can only
be supplied through numerous supernovae explosions of massive stars in these
stellar systems, but the gravitational potentials of the present-day clusters
cannot preserve most of the ejecta from such explosions. We conclude that these
globular clusters, like omega Cen, are most probably the relics of more massive
primeval dwarf galaxies that merged and disrupted to form the proto-Galaxy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08565 
PMID: 19940919 


99. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):473-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08542.

Structure and hydration of membranes embedded with voltage-sensing domains.

Krepkiy D(1), Mihailescu M, Freites JA, Schow EV, Worcester DL, Gawrisch K,
Tobias DJ, White SH, Swartz KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Physiology and Biophysics Section, Porter Neuroscience Research
Center, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):420-1.

Despite the growing number of atomic-resolution membrane protein structures,
direct structural information about proteins in their native membrane environment
is scarce. This problem is particularly relevant in the case of the highly
charged S1-S4 voltage-sensing domains responsible for nerve impulses, where
interactions with the lipid bilayer are critical for the function of
voltage-activated ion channels. Here we use neutron diffraction, solid-state
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and molecular dynamics simulations 
to investigate the structure and hydration of bilayer membranes containing S1-S4 
voltage-sensing domains. Our results show that voltage sensors adopt
transmembrane orientations and cause a modest reshaping of the surrounding lipid 
bilayer, and that water molecules intimately interact with the protein within the
membrane. These structural findings indicate that voltage sensors have evolved to
interact with the lipid membrane while keeping energetic and structural
perturbations to a minimum, and that water penetrates the membrane, to hydrate
charged residues and shape the transmembrane electric field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08542 
PMCID: PMC2784928
PMID: 19940918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):467-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08610.

Structure of the formate transporter FocA reveals a pentameric aquaporin-like
channel.

Wang Y(1), Huang Y, Wang J, Cheng C, Huang W, Lu P, Xu YN, Wang P, Yan N, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Protein Science Laboratory, Center for Structural
Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China.

FocA is a representative member of the formate-nitrite transporter family, which 
transports short-chain acids in bacteria, archaea, fungi, algae and parasites.
The structure and transport mechanism of the formate-nitrite transporter family
remain unknown. Here we report the crystal structure of Escherichia coli FocA at 
2.25 A resolution. FocA forms a symmetric pentamer, with each protomer consisting
of six transmembrane segments. Despite a lack of sequence homology, the overall
structure of the FocA protomer closely resembles that of aquaporin and strongly
argues that FocA is a channel, rather than a transporter. Structural analysis
identifies potentially important channel residues, defines the channel path and
reveals two constriction sites. Unlike aquaporin, FocA is impermeable to water
but allows the passage of formate. A structural and biochemical investigation
provides mechanistic insights into the channel activity of FocA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08610 
PMID: 19940917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):461-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08605.

Drivers of biodiagnostic development.

Giljohann DA(1), Mirkin CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and International Institute for Nanotechnology,
Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

The promise of point-of-care medical diagnostics - tests that can be carried out 
at the site of patient care - is enormous, bringing the benefits of fast and
reliable testing and allowing rapid decisions on the course of treatment to be
made. To this end, much innovation is occurring in technologies for use in
biodiagnostic tests. Assays based on nanomaterials, for example, are now
beginning to make the transition from the laboratory to the clinic. But the
potential for such assays to become part of routine medical testing depends on
many scientific factors, including sensitivity, selectivity and versatility, as
well as technological, financial and policy factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08605 
PMCID: PMC3936986
PMID: 19940916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):449-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08604.

Materials engineering for immunomodulation.

Hubbell JA(1), Thomas SN, Swartz MA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioengineering Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

The engineering of materials that can modulate the immune system is an emerging
field that is developing alongside immunology. For therapeutic ends such as
vaccine development, materials are now being engineered to deliver antigens
through specific intracellular pathways, allowing better control of the way in
which antigens are presented to one of the key types of immune cell, T cells.
Materials are also being designed as adjuvants, to mimic specific 'danger'
signals in order to manipulate the resultant cytokine environment, which
influences how antigens are interpreted by T cells. In addition to offering the
potential for medical advances, immunomodulatory materials can form well-defined 
model systems, helping to provide new insight into basic immunobiology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08604 
PMID: 19940915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):442-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08603.

Biomaterial systems for mechanosensing and actuation.

Fratzl P(1), Barth FG.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces, Department of Biomaterials,
Research Campus Golm, 14424 Potsdam, Germany. fratzl@mpikg.mpg.de

Living organisms use composite materials for various functions, such as
mechanical support, protection, motility and the sensing of signals. Although the
individual components of these materials may have poor mechanical qualities, they
form composites of polymers and minerals with a remarkable variety of functional 
properties. Researchers are now using these natural systems as models for
artificial mechanosensors and actuators, through studying both natural structures
and their interactions with the environment. In addition to inspiring the design 
of new materials, analysis of natural structures on this basis can provide
insight into evolutionary constraints on structure-function relationships in
living organisms and the variety of structural solutions that emerged from these 
constraints.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08603 
PMID: 19940914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):433-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08602.

Designing materials to direct stem-cell fate.

Lutolf MP(1), Gilbert PM, Blau HM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland. matthias.lutolf@epfl.ch

Proper tissue function and regeneration rely on robust spatial and temporal
control of biophysical and biochemical microenvironmental cues through mechanisms
that remain poorly understood. Biomaterials are rapidly being developed to
display and deliver stem-cell-regulatory signals in a precise and
near-physiological fashion, and serve as powerful artificial microenvironments in
which to study and instruct stem-cell fate both in culture and in vivo. Further
synergism of cell biological and biomaterials technologies promises to have a
profound impact on stem-cell biology and provide insights that will advance
stem-cell-based clinical approaches to tissue regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08602 
PMCID: PMC2908011
PMID: 19940913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):426-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08601.

Inspiration and application in the evolution of biomaterials.

Huebsch N(1), Mooney DJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, 29 Oxford
Street, 319 Pierce Hall, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Biomaterials, traditionally defined as materials used in medical devices, have
been used since antiquity, but recently their degree of sophistication has
increased significantly. Biomaterials made today are routinely information rich
and incorporate biologically active components derived from nature. In the
future, biomaterials will assume an even greater role in medicine and will find
use in a wide variety of non-medical applications through biologically inspired
design and incorporation of dynamic behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08601 
PMCID: PMC2848528
PMID: 19940912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):510-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08511. Epub 2009 Nov 8.

CD8(+) T lymphocyte mobilization to virus-infected tissue requires CD4(+) T-cell 
help.

Nakanishi Y(1), Lu B, Gerard C, Iwasaki A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 26;462(7272):418-9.

CD4(+) T helper cells are well known for their role in providing critical signals
during priming of cytotoxic CD8(+) T lymphocyte (CTL) responses in vivo. T-cell
help is required for the generation of primary CTL responses as well as in
promoting protective CD8(+) memory T-cell development. However, the role of CD4
help in the control of CTL responses at the effector stage is unknown. Here we
show that fully helped effector CTLs are themselves not self-sufficient for entry
into the infected tissue, but rely on the CD4(+) T cells to provide the necessary
cue. CD4(+) T helper cells control the migration of CTL indirectly through the
secretion of IFN-gamma and induction of local chemokine secretion in the infected
tissue. Our results reveal a previously unappreciated role of CD4 help in
mobilizing effector CTL to the peripheral sites of infection where they help to
eliminate infected cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08511 
PMCID: PMC2789415
PMID: 19898495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):368-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08560.

Dynamic activation of an allosteric regulatory protein.

Tzeng SR(1), Kalodimos CG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, Rutgers University, Piscataway,
New Jersey 08854, USA.

Allosteric regulation is used as a very efficient mechanism to control protein
activity in most biological processes, including signal transduction, metabolism,
catalysis and gene regulation. Allosteric proteins can exist in several
conformational states with distinct binding or enzymatic activity. Effectors are 
considered to function in a purely structural manner by selectively stabilizing a
specific conformational state, thereby regulating protein activity. Here we show 
that allosteric proteins can be regulated predominantly by changes in their
structural dynamics. We have used NMR spectroscopy and isothermal titration
calorimetry to characterize cyclic AMP (cAMP) binding to the catabolite activator
protein (CAP), a transcriptional activator that has been a prototype for
understanding effector-mediated allosteric control of protein activity. cAMP
switches CAP from the 'off' state (inactive), which binds DNA weakly and
non-specifically, to the 'on' state (active), which binds DNA strongly and
specifically. In contrast, cAMP binding to a single CAP mutant, CAP-S62F, fails
to elicit the active conformation; yet, cAMP binding to CAP-S62F strongly
activates the protein for DNA binding. NMR and thermodynamic analyses show that
despite the fact that CAP-S62F-cAMP(2) adopts the inactive conformation, its
strong binding to DNA is driven by a large conformational entropy originating in 
enhanced protein motions induced by DNA binding. The results provide strong
evidence that changes in protein motions may activate allosteric proteins that
are otherwise structurally inactive.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08560 
PMID: 19924217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):363-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08559.

Signal peptides are allosteric activators of the protein translocase.

Gouridis G(1), Karamanou S, Gelis I, Kalodimos CG, Economou A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation of Research and
Technology-Hellas, Iraklio, Crete 71110, Greece.

Extra-cytoplasmic polypeptides are usually synthesized as 'preproteins' carrying 
amino-terminal, cleavable signal peptides and secreted across membranes by
translocases. The main bacterial translocase comprises the SecYEG
protein-conducting channel and the peripheral ATPase motor SecA. Most proteins
destined for the periplasm and beyond are exported post-translationally by SecA. 
Preprotein targeting to SecA is thought to involve signal peptides and chaperones
like SecB. Here we show that signal peptides have a new role beyond targeting:
they are essential allosteric activators of the translocase. On docking on their 
binding groove on SecA, signal peptides act in trans to drive three successive
states: first, 'triggering' that drives the translocase to a lower activation
energy state; second, 'trapping' that engages non-native preprotein mature
domains docked with high affinity on the secretion apparatus; and third,
'secretion' during which trapped mature domains undergo several turnovers of
translocation in segments. A significant contribution by mature domains renders
signal peptides less critical in bacterial secretory protein targeting than
currently assumed. Rather, it is their function as allosteric activators of the
translocase that renders signal peptides essential for protein secretion. A role 
for signal peptides and targeting sequences as allosteric activators may be
universal in protein translocases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08559 
PMCID: PMC2823582
PMID: 19924216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):358-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08575.

Systems-level dynamic analyses of fate change in murine embryonic stem cells.

Lu R(1), Markowetz F, Unwin RD, Leek JT, Airoldi EM, MacArthur BD, Lachmann A,
Rozov R, Ma'ayan A, Boyer LA, Troyanskaya OG, Whetton AD, Lemischka IR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA. rlu@stanford.edu

Molecular regulation of embryonic stem cell (ESC) fate involves a coordinated
interaction between epigenetic, transcriptional and translational mechanisms. It 
is unclear how these different molecular regulatory mechanisms interact to
regulate changes in stem cell fate. Here we present a dynamic systems-level study
of cell fate change in murine ESCs following a well-defined perturbation. Global 
changes in histone acetylation, chromatin-bound RNA polymerase II, messenger RNA 
(mRNA), and nuclear protein levels were measured over 5 days after downregulation
of Nanog, a key pluripotency regulator. Our data demonstrate how a single genetic
perturbation leads to progressive widespread changes in several molecular
regulatory layers, and provide a dynamic view of information flow in the
epigenome, transcriptome and proteome. We observe that a large proportion of
changes in nuclear protein levels are not accompanied by concordant changes in
the expression of corresponding mRNAs, indicating important roles for
translational and post-translational regulation of ESC fate. Gene-ontology
analysis across different molecular layers indicates that although chromatin
reconfiguration is important for altering cell fate, it is preceded by
transcription-factor-mediated regulatory events. The temporal order of gene
expression alterations shows the order of the regulatory network reconfiguration 
and offers further insight into the gene regulatory network. Our studies extend
the conventional systems biology approach to include many molecular species,
regulatory layers and temporal series, and underscore the complexity of the
multilayer regulatory mechanisms responsible for changes in protein expression
that determine stem cell fate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08575 
PMCID: PMC3199216
PMID: 19924215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):353-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08573.

Frequency of gamma oscillations routes flow of information in the hippocampus.

Colgin LL(1), Denninger T, Fyhn M, Hafting T, Bonnevie T, Jensen O, Moser MB,
Moser EI.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for the Biology of Memory,
MTFS, Olav Kyrres gate 9, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NO-7489
Trondheim, Norway. laura.colgin@ntnu.no

Gamma oscillations are thought to transiently link distributed cell assemblies
that are processing related information, a function that is probably important
for network processes such as perception, attentional selection and memory. This 
'binding' mechanism requires that spatially distributed cells fire together with 
millisecond range precision; however, it is not clear how such coordinated timing
is achieved given that the frequency of gamma oscillations varies substantially
across space and time, from approximately 25 to almost 150 Hz. Here we show that 
gamma oscillations in the CA1 area of the hippocampus split into distinct fast
and slow frequency components that differentially couple CA1 to inputs from the
medial entorhinal cortex, an area that provides information about the animal's
current position, and CA3, a hippocampal subfield essential for storage of such
information. Fast gamma oscillations in CA1 were synchronized with fast gamma in 
medial entorhinal cortex, and slow gamma oscillations in CA1 were coherent with
slow gamma in CA3. Significant proportions of cells in medial entorhinal cortex
and CA3 were phase-locked to fast and slow CA1 gamma waves, respectively. The two
types of gamma occurred at different phases of the CA1 theta rhythm and mostly on
different theta cycles. These results point to routeing of information as a
possible function of gamma frequency variations in the brain and provide a
mechanism for temporal segregation of potentially interfering information from
different sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08573 
PMID: 19924214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):346-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08526.

Reconstruction of the history of anthropogenic CO(2) concentrations in the ocean.

Khatiwala S(1), Primeau F, Hall T.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, Palisades, New York
10964, USA. spk@ldeo.columbia.edu

The release of fossil fuel CO(2) to the atmosphere by human activity has been
implicated as the predominant cause of recent global climate change. The ocean
plays a crucial role in mitigating the effects of this perturbation to the
climate system, sequestering 20 to 35 per cent of anthropogenic CO(2) emissions. 
Although much progress has been made in recent years in understanding and
quantifying this sink, considerable uncertainties remain as to the distribution
of anthropogenic CO(2) in the ocean, its rate of uptake over the industrial era, 
and the relative roles of the ocean and terrestrial biosphere in anthropogenic
CO(2) sequestration. Here we address these questions by presenting an
observationally based reconstruction of the spatially resolved, time-dependent
history of anthropogenic carbon in the ocean over the industrial era. Our
approach is based on the recognition that the transport of tracers in the ocean
can be described by a Green's function, which we estimate from tracer data using 
a maximum entropy deconvolution technique. Our results indicate that ocean uptake
of anthropogenic CO(2) has increased sharply since the 1950s, with a small
decline in the rate of increase in the last few decades. We estimate the
inventory and uptake rate of anthropogenic CO(2) in 2008 at 140 +/- 25 Pg C and
2.3 +/- 0.6 Pg C yr(-1), respectively. We find that the Southern Ocean is the
primary conduit by which this CO(2) enters the ocean (contributing over 40 per
cent of the anthropogenic CO(2) inventory in the ocean in 2008). Our results also
suggest that the terrestrial biosphere was a source of CO(2) until the 1940s,
subsequently turning into a sink. Taken over the entire industrial period, and
accounting for uncertainties, we estimate that the terrestrial biosphere has been
anywhere from neutral to a net source of CO(2), contributing up to half as much
CO(2) as has been taken up by the ocean over the same period.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08526 
PMID: 19924213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):342-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08564.

Evidence for warmer interglacials in East Antarctic ice cores.

Sime LC(1), Wolff EW, Oliver KI, Tindall JC.

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, Cambridge CB3 0ET, UK. lsim@bas.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):295-6.

Stable isotope ratios of oxygen and hydrogen in the Antarctic ice core record
have revolutionized our understanding of Pleistocene climate variations and have 
allowed reconstructions of Antarctic temperature over the past 800,000 years (800
kyr; refs 1, 2). The relationship between the D/H ratio of mean annual
precipitation and mean annual surface air temperature is said to be uniform
+/-10% over East Antarctica and constant with time +/-20% (refs 3-5). In the
absence of strong independent temperature proxy evidence allowing us to calibrate
individual ice cores, prior general circulation model (GCM) studies have
supported the assumption of constant uniform conversion for climates cooler than 
that of the present day. Here we analyse the three available 340 kyr East
Antarctic ice core records alongside input from GCM modelling. We show that for
warmer interglacial periods the relationship between temperature and the isotopic
signature varies among ice core sites, and that therefore the conversions must be
nonlinear for at least some sites. Model results indicate that the isotopic
composition of East Antarctic ice is less sensitive to temperature changes during
warmer climates. We conclude that previous temperature estimates from
interglacial climates are likely to be too low. The available evidence is
consistent with a peak Antarctic interglacial temperature that was at least 6 K
higher than that of the present day -approximately double the widely quoted 3 +/-
1.5 K (refs 5, 6).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08564 
PMID: 19924212 


113. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):339-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08569.

Ultraflat graphene.

Lui CH(1), Liu L, Mak KF, Flynn GW, Heinz TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.

Graphene, a single atomic layer of carbon connected by sp(2) hybridized bonds,
has attracted intense scientific interest since its recent discovery. Much of the
research on graphene has been directed towards exploration of its novel
electronic properties, but the structural aspects of this model two-dimensional
system are also of great interest and importance. In particular, microscopic
corrugations have been observed on all suspended and supported graphene sheets
studied so far. This rippling has been invoked to explain the thermodynamic
stability of free-standing graphene sheets. Many distinctive electronic and
chemical properties of graphene have been attributed to the presence of ripples, 
which are also predicted to give rise to new physical phenomena that would be
absent in a planar two-dimensional material. Direct experimental study of such
novel ripple physics has, however, been hindered by the lack of flat graphene
layers. Here we demonstrate the fabrication of graphene monolayers that are flat 
down to the atomic level. These samples are produced by deposition on the
atomically flat terraces of cleaved mica surfaces. The apparent height variation 
in the graphene layers observed by high-resolution atomic force microscopy (AFM) 
is less than 25 picometres, indicating the suppression of any existing intrinsic 
ripples in graphene. The availability of such ultraflat samples will permit
rigorous testing of the impact of ripples on various physical and chemical
properties of graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08569 
PMID: 19924211 


114. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):335-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08521.

Coexistence of Fermi arcs and Fermi pockets in a high-T(c) copper oxide
superconductor.

Meng J(1), Liu G, Zhang W, Zhao L, Liu H, Jia X, Mu D, Liu S, Dong X, Zhang J, Lu
W, Wang G, Zhou Y, Zhu Y, Wang X, Xu Z, Chen C, Zhou XJ.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory for Superconductivity, Beijing National Laboratory for
Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100190, China.

In the pseudogap state of the high-transition-temperature (high-T(c)) copper
oxide superconductors, angle-resolved photoemission (ARPES) measurements have
seen Fermi arcs-that is, open-ended gapless sections in the large Fermi
surface-rather than a closed loop expected of an ordinary metal. This is all the 
more puzzling because Fermi pockets (small closed Fermi surface features) have
been suggested by recent quantum oscillation measurements. The Fermi arcs cannot 
be understood in terms of existing theories, although there is a solution in the 
form of conventional Fermi surface pockets associated with competing order, but
with a back side that is for detailed reasons invisible to photoemission probes. 
Here we report ARPES measurements of Bi(2)Sr(2-x)La(x)CuO(6+delta) (La-Bi2201)
that reveal Fermi pockets. The charge carriers in the pockets are holes, and the 
pockets show an unusual dependence on doping: they exist in underdoped but not
overdoped samples. A surprise is that these Fermi pockets appear to coexist with 
the Fermi arcs. This coexistence has not been expected theoretically.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08521 
PMID: 19924210 


115. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):307-14. doi: 10.1038/nature08532.

Human genetics illuminates the paths to metabolic disease.

O'Rahilly S(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Institute of
Metabolic Science, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
so104@medschl.cam.ac.uk

Metabolic diseases represent a growing threat to world-wide public health. In
general, these disorders result from the interaction of heritable factors with
environmental influences. Here, I will focus on two important metabolic
disorders, namely type 2 diabetes and obesity, and explore the extent to which
human molecular genetic research has illuminated our understanding of their
underlying pathophysiological mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08532 
PMID: 19924209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):301-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08556.

Light and shadow from distant worlds.

Deming D(1), Seager S.

Author information: 
(1)Planetary Systems Laboratory, Code 693, NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA. Leo.D.Deming@nasa.gov

Exoplanets are distant worlds that orbit stars other than our Sun. More than 370 
such planets are known, and a growing fraction of them are discovered because
they transit their star as seen from Earth. The special transit geometry enables 
us to measure masses and radii for dozens of planets, and we have identified
gases in the atmospheres of several giant ones. Within the next decade, we expect
to find and study a 'habitable' rocky planet transiting a cool red dwarf star
close to our Sun. Eventually, we will be able to image the light from an
Earth-like world orbiting a nearby solar-type star.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08556 
PMID: 19924208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):331-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08574. Epub 2009 Oct 28.

A limit on the variation of the speed of light arising from quantum gravity
effects.

Abdo AA(1), Ackermann M, Ajello M, Asano K, Atwood WB, Axelsson M, Baldini L,
Ballet J, Barbiellini G, Baring MG, Bastieri D, Bechtol K, Bellazzini R, Berenji 
B, Bhat PN, Bissaldi E, Bloom ED, Bonamente E, Bonnell J, Borgland AW, Bouvier A,
Bregeon J, Brez A, Briggs MS, Brigida M, Bruel P, Burgess JM, Burnett TH,
Caliandro GA, Cameron RA, Caraveo PA, Casandjian JM, Cecchi C, Celik O, Chaplin
V, Charles E, Cheung CC, Chiang J, Ciprini S, Claus R, Cohen-Tanugi J, Cominsky
LR, Connaughton V, Conrad J, Cutini S, Dermer CD, de Angelis A, de Palma F, Digel
SW, Dingus BL, do Couto E Silva E, Drell PS, Dubois R, Dumora D, Farnier C,
Favuzzi C, Fegan SJ, Finke J, Fishman G, Focke WB, Foschini L, Fukazawa Y, Funk
S, Fusco P, Gargano F, Gasparrini D, Gehrels N, Germani S, Gibby L, Giebels B,
Giglietto N, Giordano F, Glanzman T, Godfrey G, Granot J, Greiner J, Grenier IA, 
Grondin MH, Grove JE, Grupe D, Guillemot L, Guiriec S, Hanabata Y, Harding AK,
Hayashida M, Hays E, Hoversten EA, Hughes RE, Jóhannesson G, Johnson AS, Johnson 
RP, Johnson WN, Kamae T, Katagiri H, Kataoka J, Kawai N, Kerr M, Kippen RM,
Knödlseder J, Kocevski D, Kouveliotou C, Kuehn F, Kuss M, Lande J, Latronico L,
Lemoine-Goumard M, Longo F, Loparco F, Lott B, Lovellette MN, Lubrano P, Madejski
GM, Makeev A, Mazziotta MN, McBreen S, McEnery JE, McGlynn S, Mészáros P, Meurer 
C, Michelson PF, Mitthumsiri W, Mizuno T, Moiseev AA, Monte C, Monzani ME,
Moretti E, Morselli A, Moskalenko IV, Murgia S, Nakamori T, Nolan PL, Norris JP, 
Nuss E, Ohno M, Ohsugi T, Omodei N, Orlando E, Ormes JF, Ozaki M, Paciesas WS,
Paneque D, Panetta JH, Parent D, Pelassa V, Pepe M, Pesce-Rollins M, Petrosian V,
Piron F, Porter TA, Preece R, Rainò S, Ramirez-Ruiz E, Rando R, Razzano M,
Razzaque S, Reimer A, Reimer O, Reposeur T, Ritz S, Rochester LS, Rodriguez AY,
Roth M, Ryde F, Sadrozinski HF, Sanchez D, Sander A, Saz Parkinson PM, Scargle
JD, Schalk TL, Sgrò C, Siskind EJ, Smith DA, Smith PD, Spandre G, Spinelli P,
Stamatikos M, Stecker FW, Strickman MS, Suson DJ, Tajima H, Takahashi H,
Takahashi T, Tanaka T, Thayer JB, Thayer JG, Thompson DJ, Tibaldo L, Toma K,
Torres DF, Tosti G, Troja E, Uchiyama Y, Uehara T, Usher TL, van der Horst AJ,
Vasileiou V, Vilchez N, Vitale V, von Kienlin A, Waite AP, Wang P, Wilson-Hodge
C, Winer BL, Wood KS, Wu XF, Yamazaki R, Ylinen T, Ziegler M.

Author information: 
(1)Space Science Division, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, District of
Columbia 20375, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):291-2.

A cornerstone of Einstein's special relativity is Lorentz invariance-the
postulate that all observers measure exactly the same speed of light in vacuum,
independent of photon-energy. While special relativity assumes that there is no
fundamental length-scale associated with such invariance, there is a fundamental 
scale (the Planck scale, l(Planck) approximately 1.62 x 10(-33) cm or E(Planck) =
M(Planck)c(2) approximately 1.22 x 10(19) GeV), at which quantum effects are
expected to strongly affect the nature of space-time. There is great interest in 
the (not yet validated) idea that Lorentz invariance might break near the Planck 
scale. A key test of such violation of Lorentz invariance is a possible variation
of photon speed with energy. Even a tiny variation in photon speed, when
accumulated over cosmological light-travel times, may be revealed by observing
sharp features in gamma-ray burst (GRB) light-curves. Here we report the
detection of emission up to approximately 31 GeV from the distant and short GRB
090510. We find no evidence for the violation of Lorentz invariance, and place a 
lower limit of 1.2E(Planck) on the scale of a linear energy dependence (or an
inverse wavelength dependence), subject to reasonable assumptions about the
emission (equivalently we have an upper limit of l(Planck)/1.2 on the length
scale of the effect). Our results disfavour quantum-gravity theories in which the
quantum nature of space-time on a very small scale linearly alters the speed of
light.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08574 
PMID: 19865083 


118. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):350-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08496. Epub 2009 Oct 21.

Mutation load and rapid adaptation favour outcrossing over self-fertilization.

Morran LT(1), Parmenter MD, Phillips PC.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, 5289 University of Oregon, Eugene, 
Oregon 97403-5289, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):294-5.

The tendency of organisms to reproduce by cross-fertilization despite numerous
disadvantages relative to self-fertilization is one of the oldest puzzles in
evolutionary biology. For many species, the primary obstacle to the evolution of 
outcrossing is the cost of production of males, individuals that do not directly 
contribute offspring and thus diminish the long-term reproductive output of a
lineage. Self-fertilizing ('selfing') organisms do not incur the cost of males
and therefore should possess at least a twofold numerical advantage over most
outcrossing organisms. Two competing explanations for the widespread prevalence
of outcrossing in nature despite this inherent disadvantage are the avoidance of 
inbreeding depression generated by selfing and the ability of outcrossing
populations to adapt more rapidly to environmental change. Here we show that
outcrossing is favoured in populations of Caenorhabditis elegans subject to
experimental evolution both under conditions of increased mutation rate and
during adaptation to a novel environment. In general, fitness increased with
increasing rates of outcrossing. Thus, each of the standard explanations for the 
maintenance of outcrossing are correct, and it is likely that outcrossing is the 
predominant mode of reproduction in most species because it is favoured under
ecological conditions that are ubiquitous in natural environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08496 
PMCID: PMC4183137
PMID: 19847164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):315-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08514. Epub 2009 Oct 14.

Human DNA methylomes at base resolution show widespread epigenomic differences.

Lister R(1), Pelizzola M, Dowen RH, Hawkins RD, Hon G, Tonti-Filippini J, Nery
JR, Lee L, Ye Z, Ngo QM, Edsall L, Antosiewicz-Bourget J, Stewart R, Ruotti V,
Millar AH, Thomson JA, Ren B, Ecker JR.

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Analysis Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):296-7.

DNA cytosine methylation is a central epigenetic modification that has essential 
roles in cellular processes including genome regulation, development and disease.
Here we present the first genome-wide, single-base-resolution maps of methylated 
cytosines in a mammalian genome, from both human embryonic stem cells and fetal
fibroblasts, along with comparative analysis of messenger RNA and small RNA
components of the transcriptome, several histone modifications, and sites of
DNA-protein interaction for several key regulatory factors. Widespread
differences were identified in the composition and patterning of cytosine
methylation between the two genomes. Nearly one-quarter of all methylation
identified in embryonic stem cells was in a non-CG context, suggesting that
embryonic stem cells may use different methylation mechanisms to affect gene
regulation. Methylation in non-CG contexts showed enrichment in gene bodies and
depletion in protein binding sites and enhancers. Non-CG methylation disappeared 
upon induced differentiation of the embryonic stem cells, and was restored in
induced pluripotent stem cells. We identified hundreds of differentially
methylated regions proximal to genes involved in pluripotency and
differentiation, and widespread reduced methylation levels in fibroblasts
associated with lower transcriptional activity. These reference epigenomes
provide a foundation for future studies exploring this key epigenetic
modification in human disease and development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08514 
PMCID: PMC2857523
PMID: 19829295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):323-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08548.

RNA polymerase II-TFIIB structure and mechanism of transcription initiation.

Kostrewa D(1), Zeller ME, Armache KJ, Seizl M, Leike K, Thomm M, Cramer P.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Center Munich and Center for Integrated Protein Science Munich (CIPSM),
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München,
Feodor-Lynen-Strasse 25, 81377 Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):292-3.

To initiate gene transcription, RNA polymerase II (Pol II) requires the
transcription factor IIB (B). Here we present the crystal structure of the
complete Pol II-B complex at 4.3 A resolution, and complementary functional data.
The results indicate the mechanism of transcription initiation, including the
transition to RNA elongation. Promoter DNA is positioned over the Pol II active
centre cleft with the 'B-core' domain that binds the wall at the end of the
cleft. DNA is then opened with the help of the 'B-linker' that binds the Pol II
rudder and clamp coiled-coil at the edge of the cleft. The DNA template strand
slips into the cleft and is scanned for the transcription start site with the
help of the 'B-reader' that approaches the active site. Synthesis of the RNA
chain and rewinding of upstream DNA displace the B-reader and B-linker,
respectively, to trigger B release and elongation complex formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08548 
PMID: 19820686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):231-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08550.

Cohesin acetylation speeds the replication fork.

Terret ME(1), Sherwood R, Rahman S, Qin J, Jallepalli PV.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Cohesin not only links sister chromatids but also inhibits the transcriptional
machinery's interaction with and movement along chromatin. In contrast,
replication forks must traverse such cohesin-associated obstructions to duplicate
the entire genome in S phase. How this occurs is unknown. Through single-molecule
analysis, we demonstrate that the replication factor C (RFC)-CTF18 clamp loader
(RFC(CTF18)) controls the velocity, spacing and restart activity of replication
forks in human cells and is required for robust acetylation of cohesin's SMC3
subunit and sister chromatid cohesion. Unexpectedly, we discovered that cohesin
acetylation itself is a central determinant of fork processivity, as slow-moving 
replication forks were found in cells lacking the Eco1-related acetyltransferases
ESCO1 or ESCO2 (refs 8-10) (including those derived from Roberts' syndrome
patients, in whom ESCO2 is biallelically mutated) and in cells expressing a form 
of SMC3 that cannot be acetylated. This defect was a consequence of cohesin's
hyperstable interaction with two regulatory cofactors, WAPL and PDS5A (refs 12,
13); removal of either cofactor allowed forks to progress rapidly without ESCO1, 
ESCO2, or RFC(CTF18). Our results show a novel mechanism for
clamp-loader-dependent fork progression, mediated by the post-translational
modification and structural remodelling of the cohesin ring. Loss of this
regulatory mechanism leads to the spontaneous accrual of DNA damage and may
contribute to the abnormalities of the Roberts' syndrome cohesinopathy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08550 
PMCID: PMC2777716
PMID: 19907496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):226-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08529.

Uptake through glycoprotein 2 of FimH(+) bacteria by M cells initiates mucosal
immune response.

Hase K(1), Kawano K, Nochi T, Pontes GS, Fukuda S, Ebisawa M, Kadokura K, Tobe T,
Fujimura Y, Kawano S, Yabashi A, Waguri S, Nakato G, Kimura S, Murakami T, Iimura
M, Hamura K, Fukuoka S, Lowe AW, Itoh K, Kiyono H, Ohno H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Epithelial Immunobiology, Research Center for Allergy and
Immunology, RIKEN, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan.

Comment in
    Future Microbiol. 2010 Apr;5(4):549-53.

The mucosal immune system forms the largest part of the entire immune system,
containing about three-quarters of all lymphocytes and producing grams of
secretory IgA daily to protect the mucosal surface from pathogens. To evoke the
mucosal immune response, antigens on the mucosal surface must be transported
across the epithelial barrier into organized lymphoid structures such as Peyer's 
patches. This function, called antigen transcytosis, is mediated by specialized
epithelial M cells. The molecular mechanisms promoting this antigen uptake,
however, are largely unknown. Here we report that glycoprotein 2 (GP2),
specifically expressed on the apical plasma membrane of M cells among
enterocytes, serves as a transcytotic receptor for mucosal antigens. Recombinant 
GP2 protein selectively bound a subset of commensal and pathogenic
enterobacteria, including Escherichia coli and Salmonella enterica serovar
Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium), by recognizing FimH, a component of type I pili on 
the bacterial outer membrane. Consistently, these bacteria were colocalized with 
endogenous GP2 on the apical plasma membrane as well as in cytoplasmic vesicles
in M cells. Moreover, deficiency of bacterial FimH or host GP2 led to defects in 
transcytosis of type-I-piliated bacteria through M cells, resulting in an
attenuation of antigen-specific immune responses in Peyer's patches. GP2 is
therefore a previously unrecognized transcytotic receptor on M cells for
type-I-piliated bacteria and is a prerequisite for the mucosal immune response to
these bacteria. Given that M cells are considered a promising target for oral
vaccination against various infectious diseases, the GP2-dependent transcytotic
pathway could provide a new target for the development of M-cell-targeted mucosal
vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08529 
PMID: 19907495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):218-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08485.

Bidirectional plasticity in fast-spiking GABA circuits by visual experience.

Yazaki-Sugiyama Y(1), Kang S, Câteau H, Fukai T, Hensch TK.

Author information: 
(1)CREST, JST, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0082, Japan.

Experience-dependent plasticity in the brain requires balanced
excitation-inhibition. How individual circuit elements contribute to plasticity
outcome in complex neocortical networks remains unknown. Here we report an
intracellular analysis of ocular dominance plasticity-the loss of acuity and
cortical responsiveness for an eye deprived of vision in early life. Unlike the
typical progressive loss of pyramidal-cell bias, direct recording from
fast-spiking cells in vivo reveals a counterintuitive initial shift towards the
occluded eye followed by a late preference for the open eye, consistent with a
spike-timing-dependent plasticity rule for these inhibitory neurons.
Intracellular pharmacology confirms a dynamic switch of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric 
acid) impact to pyramidal cells following deprivation in juvenile mice only.
Together these results suggest that the bidirectional recruitment of an initially
binocular GABA circuit may contribute to experience-dependent plasticity in the
developing visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08485 
PMID: 19907494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08549.

Human-specific transcriptional regulation of CNS development genes by FOXP2.

Konopka G(1), Bomar JM, Winden K, Coppola G, Jonsson ZO, Gao F, Peng S, Preuss
TM, Wohlschlegel JA, Geschwind DH.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neurogenetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA. gena@alum.mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):169-70.

The signalling pathways controlling both the evolution and development of
language in the human brain remain unknown. So far, the transcription factor
FOXP2 (forkhead box P2) is the only gene implicated in Mendelian forms of human
speech and language dysfunction. It has been proposed that the amino acid
composition in the human variant of FOXP2 has undergone accelerated evolution,
and this two-amino-acid change occurred around the time of language emergence in 
humans. However, this remains controversial, and whether the acquisition of these
amino acids in human FOXP2 has any functional consequence in human neurons
remains untested. Here we demonstrate that these two human-specific amino acids
alter FOXP2 function by conferring differential transcriptional regulation in
vitro. We extend these observations in vivo to human and chimpanzee brain, and
use network analysis to identify novel relationships among the differentially
expressed genes. These data provide experimental support for the functional
relevance of changes in FOXP2 that occur on the human lineage, highlighting
specific pathways with direct consequences for human brain development and
disease in the central nervous system (CNS). Because FOXP2 has an important role 
in speech and language in humans, the identified targets may have a critical
function in the development and evolution of language circuitry in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08549 
PMCID: PMC2778075
PMID: 19907493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08517.

Permeability of asthenospheric mantle and melt extraction rates at mid-ocean
ridges.

Connolly JA(1), Schmidt MW, Solferino G, Bagdassarov N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Mineralogy and Petrology, ETH Zurich, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.

Magmatic production on Earth is dominated by asthenospheric melts of basaltic
composition that have mostly erupted at mid-ocean ridges. The timescale for
segregation and transport of these melts, which are ultimately responsible for
formation of the Earth's crust, is critically dependent on the permeability of
the partly molten asthenospheric mantle, yet this permeability is known mainly
from semi-empirical and analogue models. Here we use a high-pressure,
high-temperature centrifuge, at accelerations of 400g-700g, to measure the rate
of basalt melt flow in olivine aggregates with porosities of 5-12 per cent. The
resulting permeabilities are consistent with a microscopic model in which melt is
completely connected, and are one to two orders of magnitude larger than
predicted by current parameterizations. Extrapolation of the measurements to
conditions characteristic of asthenosphere below mid-ocean ridges yields
proportionally higher transport speeds. Application of these results in a model
of porous-media channelling instabilities yields melt transport times of
approximately 1-2.5 kyr across the entire asthenosphere, which is sufficient to
preserve the observed (230)Th excess of mid-ocean-ridge basalts and the mantle
signatures of even shorter-lived isotopes such as (226)Ra (refs 5,11-14).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08517 
PMID: 19907492 


126. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08518.

Oxygen and hydrogen isotope evidence for a temperate climate 3.42 billion years
ago.

Hren MT(1), Tice MM, Chamberlain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, 210 Whitney Avenue, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA. mhren@umich.edu

Stable oxygen isotope ratios (delta(18)O) of Precambrian cherts have been used to
establish much of our understanding of the early climate history of Earth and
suggest that ocean temperatures during the Archaean era ( approximately 3.5
billion years ago) were between 55 degrees C and 85 degrees C (ref. 2). But,
because of uncertainty in the delta(18)O of the primitive ocean, there is
considerable debate regarding this conclusion. Examination of modern and ancient 
cherts indicates that another approach, using a combined analysis of delta(18)O
and hydrogen isotopes (deltaD) rather than delta(18)O alone, can provide a firmer
constraint on formational temperatures without independent knowledge of the
isotopic composition of ambient waters. Here we show that delta(18)O and deltaD
sampled from 3.42-billion-year-old Buck Reef Chert rocks in South Africa are
consistent with formation from waters at varied low temperatures. The most
(18)O-enriched Buck Reef Chert rocks record the lowest diagenetic temperatures
and were formed in equilibrium with waters below approximately 40 degrees C.
Geochemical and sedimentary evidence suggests that the Buck Reef Chert was formed
in shallow to deep marine conditions, so our results indicate that the
Palaeoarchaean ocean was isotopically depleted relative to the modern ocean and
far cooler (<or=40 degrees C) than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08518 
PMID: 19907491 


127. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):200-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08527.

Mapping GFP structure evolution during proton transfer with femtosecond Raman
spectroscopy.

Fang C(1), Frontiera RR, Tran R, Mathies RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

Tracing the transient atomic motions that lie at the heart of chemical reactions 
requires high-resolution multidimensional structural information on the timescale
of molecular vibrations, which commonly range from 10 fs to 1 ps. For simple
chemical systems, it has been possible to map out in considerable detail the
reactive potential-energy surfaces describing atomic motions and resultant
reaction dynamics, but such studies remain challenging for complex chemical and
biological transformations. A case in point is the green fluorescent protein
(GFP) from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria, which is a widely used gene
expression marker owing to its efficient bioluminescence. This feature is known
to arise from excited-state proton transfer (ESPT), yet the atomistic details of 
the process are still not fully understood. Here we show that femtosecond
stimulated Raman spectroscopy provides sufficiently detailed and time-resolved
vibrational spectra of the electronically excited chromophore of GFP to reveal
skeletal motions involved in the proton transfer that produces the fluorescent
form of the protein. In particular, we observe that the frequencies and
intensities of two marker bands, the C-O and C = N stretching modes at opposite
ends of the conjugated chromophore, oscillate out of phase with a period of 280
fs; we attribute these oscillations to impulsively excited low-frequency
phenoxyl-ring motions, which optimize the geometry of the chromophore for ESPT.
Our findings illustrate that femtosecond simulated Raman spectroscopy is a
powerful approach to revealing the real-time nuclear dynamics that make up a
multidimensional polyatomic reaction coordinate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08527 
PMID: 19907490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):189-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08483.

Enhanced lithium depletion in Sun-like stars with orbiting planets.

Israelian G(1), Mena ED, Santos NC, Sousa SG, Mayor M, Udry S, Cerdeña CD, Rebolo
R, Randich S.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofisíca de Canarias, Via Láctea s/n, E-38200 La Laguna,
Spain. gil@iac.es

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):168-9.

The surface abundance of lithium on the Sun is 140 times less than the protosolar
value, yet the temperature at the base of the surface convective zone is not hot 
enough to burn-and hence deplete-Li (refs 2, 3). A large range of Li abundances
is observed in solar-type stars of the same age, mass and metallicity as the Sun,
but such a range is theoretically difficult to understand. An earlier suggestion 
that Li is more depleted in stars with planets was weakened by the lack of a
proper comparison sample of stars without detected planets. Here we report Li
abundances for an unbiased sample of solar-analogue stars with and without
detected planets. We find that the planet-bearing stars have less than one per
cent of the primordial Li abundance, while about 50 per cent of the solar
analogues without detected planets have on average ten times more Li. The
presence of planets may increase the amount of mixing and deepen the convective
zone to such an extent that the Li can be burned.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08483 
PMID: 19907489 


129. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):182-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08543.

Direct inhibition of the NOTCH transcription factor complex.

Moellering RE(1), Cornejo M, Davis TN, Del Bianco C, Aster JC, Blacklow SC, Kung 
AL, Gilliland DG, Verdine GL, Bradner JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):384.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):171-3.

Direct inhibition of transcription factor complexes remains a central challenge
in the discipline of ligand discovery. In general, these proteins lack surface
involutions suitable for high-affinity binding by small molecules. Here we report
the design of synthetic, cell-permeable, stabilized alpha-helical peptides that
target a critical protein-protein interface in the NOTCH transactivation complex.
We demonstrate that direct, high-affinity binding of the hydrocarbon-stapled
peptide SAHM1 prevents assembly of the active transcriptional complex.
Inappropriate NOTCH activation is directly implicated in the pathogenesis of
several disease states, including T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL).
The treatment of leukaemic cells with SAHM1 results in genome-wide suppression of
NOTCH-activated genes. Direct antagonism of the NOTCH transcriptional program
causes potent, NOTCH-specific anti-proliferative effects in cultured cells and in
a mouse model of NOTCH1-driven T-ALL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08543 
PMCID: PMC2951323
PMID: 19907488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):175-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08506. Epub 2009 Nov 1.

Predicting new molecular targets for known drugs.

Keiser MJ(1), Setola V, Irwin JJ, Laggner C, Abbas AI, Hufeisen SJ, Jensen NH,
Kuijer MB, Matos RC, Tran TB, Whaley R, Glennon RA, Hert J, Thomas KL, Edwards
DD, Shoichet BK, Roth BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of California San
Francisco, 1700 4th Street, San Francisco, California 94143-2550, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Cancer. 2010 Nov 15;127(10):2486.
    Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):167-8.

Although drugs are intended to be selective, at least some bind to several
physiological targets, explaining side effects and efficacy. Because many
drug-target combinations exist, it would be useful to explore possible
interactions computationally. Here we compared 3,665 US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA)-approved and investigational drugs against hundreds of
targets, defining each target by its ligands. Chemical similarities between drugs
and ligand sets predicted thousands of unanticipated associations. Thirty were
tested experimentally, including the antagonism of the beta(1) receptor by the
transporter inhibitor Prozac, the inhibition of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)
transporter by the ion channel drug Vadilex, and antagonism of the histamine H(4)
receptor by the enzyme inhibitor Rescriptor. Overall, 23 new drug-target
associations were confirmed, five of which were potent (<100 nM). The
physiological relevance of one, the drug N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT) on
serotonergic receptors, was confirmed in a knockout mouse. The chemical
similarity approach is systematic and comprehensive, and may suggest side-effects
and new indications for many drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08506 
PMCID: PMC2784146
PMID: 19881490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08582. Epub 2009 Nov 1.

Observation of the fractional quantum Hall effect in graphene.

Bolotin KI(1), Ghahari F, Shulman MD, Stormer HL, Kim P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):122.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):170-1.

When electrons are confined in two dimensions and subject to strong magnetic
fields, the Coulomb interactions between them can become very strong, leading to 
the formation of correlated states of matter, such as the fractional quantum Hall
liquid. In this strong quantum regime, electrons and magnetic flux quanta bind to
form complex composite quasiparticles with fractional electronic charge; these
are manifest in transport measurements of the Hall conductivity as rational
fractions of the elementary conductance quantum. The experimental discovery of an
anomalous integer quantum Hall effect in graphene has enabled the study of a
correlated two-dimensional electronic system, in which the interacting electrons 
behave like massless chiral fermions. However, owing to the prevailing disorder, 
graphene has so far exhibited only weak signatures of correlated electron
phenomena, despite intense experimental and theoretical efforts. Here we report
the observation of the fractional quantum Hall effect in ultraclean, suspended
graphene. In addition, we show that at low carrier density graphene becomes an
insulator with a magnetic-field-tunable energy gap. These newly discovered
quantum states offer the opportunity to study correlated Dirac fermions in
graphene in the presence of large magnetic fields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08582 
PMID: 19881489 


132. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):222-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08562. Epub 2009 Oct 28.

Human DAZL, DAZ and BOULE genes modulate primordial germ-cell and haploid gamete 
formation.

Kee K(1), Angeles VT, Flores M, Nguyen HN, Reijo Pera RA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research and Education, Institute for
Stem Cell Biology & Regenerative Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford University, Palo
Alto, California 94305, USA.

The leading cause of infertility in men and women is quantitative and qualitative
defects in human germ-cell (oocyte and sperm) development. Yet, it has not been
possible to examine the unique developmental genetics of human germ-cell
formation and differentiation owing to inaccessibility of germ cells during fetal
development. Although several studies have shown that germ cells can be
differentiated from mouse and human embryonic stem cells, human germ cells
differentiated in these studies generally did not develop beyond the earliest
stages. Here we used a germ-cell reporter to quantify and isolate primordial germ
cells derived from both male and female human embryonic stem cells. By silencing 
and overexpressing genes that encode germ-cell-specific cytoplasmic RNA-binding
proteins (not transcription factors), we modulated human germ-cell formation and 
developmental progression. We observed that human DAZL (deleted in
azoospermia-like) functions in primordial germ-cell formation, whereas closely
related genes DAZ and BOULE (also called BOLL) promote later stages of meiosis
and development of haploid gametes. These results are significant to the
generation of gametes for future basic science and potential clinical
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08562 
PMCID: PMC3133736
PMID: 19865085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):192-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08522. Epub 2009 Oct 14.

Fractional quantum Hall effect and insulating phase of Dirac electrons in
graphene.

Du X(1), Skachko I, Duerr F, Luican A, Andrei EY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New
Jersey 08855, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 12;462(7270):170-1.

In graphene, which is an atomic layer of crystalline carbon, two of the
distinguishing properties of the material are the charge carriers'
two-dimensional and relativistic character. The first experimental evidence of
the two-dimensional nature of graphene came from the observation of a sequence of
plateaus in measurements of its transport properties in the presence of an
applied magnetic field. These are signatures of the so-called integer quantum
Hall effect. However, as a consequence of the relativistic character of the
charge carriers, the integer quantum Hall effect observed in graphene is
qualitatively different from its semiconductor analogue. As a third
distinguishing feature of graphene, it has been conjectured that interactions and
correlations should be important in this material, but surprisingly, evidence of 
collective behaviour in graphene is lacking. In particular, the quintessential
collective quantum behaviour in two dimensions, the fractional quantum Hall
effect (FQHE), has so far resisted observation in graphene despite intense
efforts and theoretical predictions of its existence. Here we report the
observation of the FQHE in graphene. Our observations are made possible by using 
suspended graphene devices probed by two-terminal charge transport measurements. 
This allows us to isolate the sample from substrate-induced perturbations that
usually obscure the effects of interactions in this system and to avoid effects
of finite geometry. At low carrier density, we find a field-induced transition to
an insulator that competes with the FQHE, allowing its observation only in the
highest quality samples. We believe that these results will open the door to the 
physics of FQHE and other collective behaviour in graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08522 
PMID: 19829294 


134. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):117-20. doi: 10.1038/nature08507.

Structural basis of inter-protein electron transfer for nitrite reduction in
denitrification.

Nojiri M(1), Koteishi H, Nakagami T, Kobayashi K, Inoue T, Yamaguchi K, Suzuki S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Osaka University,
Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan. nojiri@ch.wani.osaka-u.ac.jp

Recent earth science studies have pointed out that massive acceleration of the
global nitrogen cycle by anthropogenic addition of bio-available nitrogen has led
to a host of environmental problems. Nitrous oxide (N(2)O) is a greenhouse gas
that is an intermediate during the biological process known as denitrification.
Copper-containing nitrite reductase (CuNIR) is a key enzyme in the process; it
produces a precursor for N(2)O by catalysing the one-electron reduction of
nitrite (NO2-) to nitric oxide (NO). The reduction step is performed by an
efficient electron-transfer reaction with a redox-partner protein. However,
details of the mechanism during the electron-transfer reaction are still unknown.
Here we show the high-resolution crystal structure of the electron-transfer
complex for CuNIR with its cognate cytochrome c as the electron donor. The
hydrophobic electron-transfer path is formed at the docking interface by
desolvation owing to close contact between the two proteins. Structural analysis 
of the interface highlights an essential role for the loop region with a
hydrophobic patch for protein-protein recognition; it also shows how interface
construction allows the variation in atomic components to achieve diverse
biological electron transfers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08507 
PMID: 19890332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):113-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08551.

Rationally tuning the reduction potential of a single cupredoxin beyond the
natural range.

Marshall NM(1), Garner DK, Wilson TD, Gao YG, Robinson H, Nilges MJ, Lu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, Illinois
61801, USA.

Redox processes are at the heart of numerous functions in chemistry and biology, 
from long-range electron transfer in photosynthesis and respiration to catalysis 
in industrial and fuel cell research. These functions are accomplished in nature 
by only a limited number of redox-active agents. A long-standing issue in these
fields is how redox potentials are fine-tuned over a broad range with little
change to the redox-active site or electron-transfer properties. Resolving this
issue will not only advance our fundamental understanding of the roles of
long-range, non-covalent interactions in redox processes, but also allow for
design of redox-active proteins having tailor-made redox potentials for
applications such as artificial photosynthetic centres or fuel cell catalysts for
energy conversion. Here we show that two important secondary coordination sphere 
interactions, hydrophobicity and hydrogen-bonding, are capable of tuning the
reduction potential of the cupredoxin azurin over a 700 mV range, surpassing the 
highest and lowest reduction potentials reported for any mononuclear cupredoxin, 
without perturbing the metal binding site beyond what is typical for the
cupredoxin family of proteins. We also demonstrate that the effects of individual
structural features are additive and that redox potential tuning of azurin is now
predictable across the full range of cupredoxin potentials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08551 
PMCID: PMC4149807
PMID: 19890331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature08512.

HMGB proteins function as universal sentinels for nucleic-acid-mediated innate
immune responses.

Yanai H(1), Ban T, Wang Z, Choi MK, Kawamura T, Negishi H, Nakasato M, Lu Y,
Hangai S, Koshiba R, Savitsky D, Ronfani L, Akira S, Bianchi ME, Honda K, Tamura 
T, Kodama T, Taniguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Graduate School of Medicine and Faculty of Medicine,
University of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

The activation of innate immune responses by nucleic acids is crucial to
protective and pathological immunities and is mediated by the transmembrane
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and cytosolic receptors. However, it remains unknown
whether a mechanism exists that integrates these nucleic-acid-sensing systems.
Here we show that high-mobility group box (HMGB) proteins 1, 2 and 3 function as 
universal sentinels for nucleic acids. HMGBs bind to all immunogenic nucleic
acids examined with a correlation between affinity and immunogenic potential.
Hmgb1(-/-) and Hmgb2(-/-) mouse cells are defective in type-I interferon and
inflammatory cytokine induction by DNA or RNA targeted to activate the cytosolic 
nucleic-acid-sensing receptors; cells in which the expression of all three HMGBs 
is suppressed show a more profound defect, accompanied by impaired activation of 
the transcription factors interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) and nuclear
factor (NF)-kappaB. The absence of HMGBs also severely impairs the activation of 
TLR3, TLR7 and TLR9 by their cognate nucleic acids. Our results therefore
indicate a hierarchy in the nucleic-acid-mediated activation of immune responses,
wherein the selective activation of nucleic-acid-sensing receptors is contingent 
on the more promiscuous sensing of nucleic acids by HMGBs. These findings may
have implications for understanding the evolution of the innate immune system and
for the treatment of immunological disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08512 
PMID: 19890330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08504.

Experimental evolution of bet hedging.

Beaumont HJ(1), Gallie J, Kost C, Ferguson GC, Rainey PB.

Author information: 
(1)New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study and Allan Wilson Centre for Molecular
Ecology & Evolution, Massey University, Private Bag 102904, North Shore Mail
Centre, North Shore City 0745, Auckland, New Zealand.
h.j.e.beaumont@biology.leidenuniv.nl

Bet hedging-stochastic switching between phenotypic states-is a canonical example
of an evolutionary adaptation that facilitates persistence in the face of
fluctuating environmental conditions. Although bet hedging is found in organisms 
ranging from bacteria to humans, direct evidence for an adaptive origin of this
behaviour is lacking. Here we report the de novo evolution of bet hedging in
experimental bacterial populations. Bacteria were subjected to an environment
that continually favoured new phenotypic states. Initially, our regime drove the 
successive evolution of novel phenotypes by mutation and selection; however, in
two (of 12) replicates this trend was broken by the evolution of bet-hedging
genotypes that persisted because of rapid stochastic phenotype switching. Genome 
re-sequencing of one of these switching types revealed nine mutations that
distinguished it from the ancestor. The final mutation was both necessary and
sufficient for rapid phenotype switching; nonetheless, the evolution of bet
hedging was contingent upon earlier mutations that altered the relative fitness
effect of the final mutation. These findings capture the adaptive evolution of
bet hedging in the simplest of organisms, and suggest that risk-spreading
strategies may have been among the earliest evolutionary solutions to life in
fluctuating environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08504 
PMID: 19890329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):87-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08502.

Long aftershock sequences within continents and implications for earthquake
hazard assessment.

Stein S(1), Liu M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208, USA. seth@earth.northwestern.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):42-3.

One of the most powerful features of plate tectonics is that the known plate
motions give insight into both the locations and average recurrence interval of
future large earthquakes on plate boundaries. Plate tectonics gives no insight,
however, into where and when earthquakes will occur within plates, because the
interiors of ideal plates should not deform. As a result, within plate interiors,
assessments of earthquake hazards rely heavily on the assumption that the
locations of small earthquakes shown by the short historical record reflect
continuing deformation that will cause future large earthquakes. Here, however,
we show that many of these recent earthquakes are probably aftershocks of large
earthquakes that occurred hundreds of years ago. We present a simple model
predicting that the length of aftershock sequences varies inversely with the rate
at which faults are loaded. Aftershock sequences within the slowly deforming
continents are predicted to be significantly longer than the decade typically
observed at rapidly loaded plate boundaries. These predictions are in accord with
observations. So the common practice of treating continental earthquakes as
steady-state seismicity overestimates the hazard in presently active areas and
underestimates it elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08502 
PMID: 19890328 


139. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08457.

Soft colloids make strong glasses.

Mattsson J(1), Wyss HM, Fernandez-Nieves A, Miyazaki K, Hu Z, Reichman DR, Weitz 
DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. johanm@chalmers.se

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):45-6.

Glass formation in colloidal suspensions has many of the hallmarks of glass
formation in molecular materials. For hard-sphere colloids, which interact only
as a result of excluded volume, phase behaviour is controlled by volume fraction,
phi; an increase in phi drives the system towards its glassy state, analogously
to a decrease in temperature, T, in molecular systems. When phi increases above
phi* approximately 0.53, the viscosity starts to increase significantly, and the 
system eventually moves out of equilibrium at the glass transition, phi(g)
approximately 0.58, where particle crowding greatly restricts structural
relaxation. The large particle size makes it possible to study both structure and
dynamics with light scattering and imaging; colloidal suspensions have therefore 
provided considerable insight into the glass transition. However, hard-sphere
colloidal suspensions do not exhibit the same diversity of behaviour as molecular
glasses. This is highlighted by the wide variation in behaviour observed for the 
viscosity or structural relaxation time, tau(alpha), when the glassy state is
approached in supercooled molecular liquids. This variation is characterized by
the unifying concept of fragility, which has spurred the search for a 'universal'
description of dynamic arrest in glass-forming liquids. For 'fragile' liquids,
tau(alpha) is highly sensitive to changes in T, whereas non-fragile, or 'strong',
liquids show a much lower T sensitivity. In contrast, hard-sphere colloidal
suspensions are restricted to fragile behaviour, as determined by their phi
dependence, ultimately limiting their utility in the study of the glass
transition. Here we show that deformable colloidal particles, when studied
through their concentration dependence at fixed temperature, do exhibit the same 
variation in fragility as that observed in the T dependence of molecular liquids 
at fixed volume. Their fragility is dictated by elastic properties on the scale
of individual colloidal particles. Furthermore, we find an equivalent effect in
molecular systems, where elasticity directly reflects fragility. Colloidal
suspensions may thus provide new insight into glass formation in molecular
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08457 
PMID: 19890327 


140. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):74-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08482.

A quantum gas microscope for detecting single atoms in a Hubbard-regime optical
lattice.

Bakr WS(1), Gillen JI, Peng A, Fölling S, Greiner M.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-MIT Center for Ultracold Atoms and Department of Physics, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Recent years have seen tremendous progress in creating complex atomic many-body
quantum systems. One approach is to use macroscopic, effectively thermodynamic
ensembles of ultracold atoms to create quantum gases and strongly correlated
states of matter, and to analyse the bulk properties of the ensemble. For
example, bosonic and fermionic atoms in a Hubbard-regime optical lattice can be
used for quantum simulations of solid-state models. The opposite approach is to
build up microscopic quantum systems atom-by-atom, with complete control over all
degrees of freedom. The atoms or ions act as qubits and allow the realization of 
quantum gates, with the goal of creating highly controllable quantum information 
systems. Until now, the macroscopic and microscopic strategies have been fairly
disconnected. Here we present a quantum gas 'microscope' that bridges the two
approaches, realizing a system in which atoms of a macroscopic ensemble are
detected individually and a complete set of degrees of freedom for each of them
is determined through preparation and measurement. By implementing a
high-resolution optical imaging system, single atoms are detected with near-unity
fidelity on individual sites of a Hubbard-regime optical lattice. The lattice
itself is generated by projecting a holographic mask through the imaging system. 
It has an arbitrary geometry, chosen to support both strong tunnel coupling
between lattice sites and strong on-site confinement. Our approach can be used to
directly detect strongly correlated states of matter; in the context of condensed
matter simulation, this corresponds to the detection of individual electrons in
the simulated crystal. Also, the quantum gas microscope may enable addressing and
read-out of large-scale quantum information systems based on ultracold atoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08482 
PMID: 19890326 


141. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):71-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08525.

A neutron star with a carbon atmosphere in the Cassiopeia A supernova remnant.

Ho WC(1), Heinke CO.

Author information: 
(1)School of Mathematics, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK.
wynnho@slac.stanford.edu

The surface of hot neutron stars is covered by a thin atmosphere. If there is
accretion after neutron-star formation, the atmosphere could be composed of light
elements (H or He); if no accretion takes place or if thermonuclear reactions
occur after accretion, heavy elements (for example, Fe) are expected. Despite
detailed searches, observations have been unable to confirm the atmospheric
composition of isolated neutron stars. Here we report an analysis of archival
observations of the compact X-ray source in the centre of the Cassiopeia A
supernova remnant. We show that a carbon atmosphere neutron star (with low
magnetic field) produces a good fit to the spectrum. Our emission model, in
contrast with others, implies an emission size consistent with theoretical
predictions for the radius of neutron stars. This result suggests that there is
nuclear burning in the surface layers and also identifies the compact source as a
very young ( approximately 330-year-old) neutron star.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08525 
PMID: 19890325 


142. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):65-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08531.

Combinatorial binding predicts spatio-temporal cis-regulatory activity.

Zinzen RP(1), Girardot C, Gagneur J, Braun M, Furlong EE.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, D-69117 Heidelberg, Germany.

Development requires the establishment of precise patterns of gene expression,
which are primarily controlled by transcription factors binding to cis-regulatory
modules. Although transcription factor occupancy can now be identified at
genome-wide scales, decoding this regulatory landscape remains a daunting
challenge. Here we used a novel approach to predict spatio-temporal
cis-regulatory activity based only on in vivo transcription factor binding and
enhancer activity data. We generated a high-resolution atlas of cis-regulatory
modules describing their temporal and combinatorial occupancy during Drosophila
mesoderm development. The binding profiles of cis-regulatory modules with
characterized expression were used to train support vector machines to predict
five spatio-temporal expression patterns. In vivo transgenic reporter assays
demonstrate the high accuracy of these predictions and reveal an unanticipated
plasticity in transcription factor binding leading to similar expression. This
data-driven approach does not require previous knowledge of transcription factor 
sequence affinity, function or expression, making it widely applicable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08531 
PMID: 19890324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):58-64. doi: 10.1038/nature08497.

An oestrogen-receptor-alpha-bound human chromatin interactome.

Fullwood MJ(1), Liu MH, Pan YF, Liu J, Xu H, Mohamed YB, Orlov YL, Velkov S, Ho
A, Mei PH, Chew EG, Huang PY, Welboren WJ, Han Y, Ooi HS, Ariyaratne PN, Vega VB,
Luo Y, Tan PY, Choy PY, Wansa KD, Zhao B, Lim KS, Leow SC, Yow JS, Joseph R, Li
H, Desai KV, Thomsen JS, Lee YK, Karuturi RK, Herve T, Bourque G, Stunnenberg HG,
Ruan X, Cacheux-Rataboul V, Sung WK, Liu ET, Wei CL, Cheung E, Ruan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Genome Institute of Singapore, Agency for Science, Technology and Research,
Singapore 138672.

Genomes are organized into high-level three-dimensional structures, and DNA
elements separated by long genomic distances can in principle interact
functionally. Many transcription factors bind to regulatory DNA elements distant 
from gene promoters. Although distal binding sites have been shown to regulate
transcription by long-range chromatin interactions at a few loci, chromatin
interactions and their impact on transcription regulation have not been
investigated in a genome-wide manner. Here we describe the development of a new
strategy, chromatin interaction analysis by paired-end tag sequencing (ChIA-PET) 
for the de novo detection of global chromatin interactions, with which we have
comprehensively mapped the chromatin interaction network bound by oestrogen
receptor alpha (ER-alpha) in the human genome. We found that most high-confidence
remote ER-alpha-binding sites are anchored at gene promoters through long-range
chromatin interactions, suggesting that ER-alpha functions by extensive chromatin
looping to bring genes together for coordinated transcriptional regulation. We
propose that chromatin interactions constitute a primary mechanism for regulating
transcription in mammalian genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08497 
PMCID: PMC2774924
PMID: 19890323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):51-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08366.

Cooperation between non-kin in animal societies.

Clutton-Brock T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB3 
9EJ, UK. thcb@cam.ac.uk

Explanations of cooperation between non-kin in animal societies often suggest
that individuals exchange resources or services and that cooperation is
maintained by reciprocity. But do cooperative interactions between unrelated
individuals in non-human animals really resemble exchanges or are they a
consequence of simpler mechanisms? Firm evidence of reciprocity in animal
societies is rare and many examples of cooperation between non-kin probably
represent cases of intra-specific mutualism or manipulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08366 
PMID: 19890322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08460. Epub 2009 Oct 21.

Systematic RNA interference reveals that oncogenic KRAS-driven cancers require
TBK1.

Barbie DA(1), Tamayo P, Boehm JS, Kim SY, Moody SE, Dunn IF, Schinzel AC, Sandy
P, Meylan E, Scholl C, Fröhling S, Chan EM, Sos ML, Michel K, Mermel C, Silver
SJ, Weir BA, Reiling JH, Sheng Q, Gupta PB, Wadlow RC, Le H, Hoersch S, Wittner
BS, Ramaswamy S, Livingston DM, Sabatini DM, Meyerson M, Thomas RK, Lander ES,
Mesirov JP, Root DE, Gilliland DG, Jacks T, Hahn WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney
Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):44-5.

The proto-oncogene KRAS is mutated in a wide array of human cancers, most of
which are aggressive and respond poorly to standard therapies. Although the
identification of specific oncogenes has led to the development of clinically
effective, molecularly targeted therapies in some cases, KRAS has remained
refractory to this approach. A complementary strategy for targeting KRAS is to
identify gene products that, when inhibited, result in cell death only in the
presence of an oncogenic allele. Here we have used systematic RNA interference to
detect synthetic lethal partners of oncogenic KRAS and found that the
non-canonical IkappaB kinase TBK1 was selectively essential in cells that contain
mutant KRAS. Suppression of TBK1 induced apoptosis specifically in human cancer
cell lines that depend on oncogenic KRAS expression. In these cells, TBK1
activated NF-kappaB anti-apoptotic signals involving c-Rel and BCL-XL (also known
as BCL2L1) that were essential for survival, providing mechanistic insights into 
this synthetic lethal interaction. These observations indicate that TBK1 and
NF-kappaB signalling are essential in KRAS mutant tumours, and establish a
general approach for the rational identification of co-dependent pathways in
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08460 
PMCID: PMC2783335
PMID: 19847166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08462. Epub 2009 Oct 21.

Requirement for NF-kappaB signalling in a mouse model of lung adenocarcinoma.

Meylan E(1), Dooley AL, Feldser DM, Shen L, Turk E, Ouyang C, Jacks T.

Author information: 
(1)Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, and Department of Biology, and
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):44-5.

NF-kappaB transcription factors function as crucial regulators of inflammatory
and immune responses as well as of cell survival. They have also been implicated 
in cellular transformation and tumorigenesis. However, despite extensive
biochemical characterization of NF-kappaB signalling during the past twenty
years, the requirement for NF-kappaB in tumour development in vivo, particularly 
in solid tumours, is not completely understood. Here we show that the NF-kappaB
pathway is required for the development of tumours in a mouse model of lung
adenocarcinoma. Concomitant loss of p53 (also known as Trp53) and expression of
oncogenic Kras(G12D) resulted in NF-kappaB activation in primary mouse embryonic 
fibroblasts. Conversely, in lung tumour cell lines expressing Kras(G12D) and
lacking p53, p53 restoration led to NF-kappaB inhibition. Furthermore, the
inhibition of NF-kappaB signalling induced apoptosis in p53-null lung cancer cell
lines. Inhibition of the pathway in lung tumours in vivo, from the time of tumour
initiation or after tumour progression, resulted in significantly reduced tumour 
development. Together, these results indicate a critical function for NF-kappaB
signalling in lung tumour development and, further, that this requirement depends
on p53 status. These findings also provide support for the development of
NF-kappaB inhibitory drugs as targeted therapies for the treatment of patients
with defined mutations in Kras and p53.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08462 
PMCID: PMC2780341
PMID: 19847165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):78-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08524. Epub 2009 Oct 18.

Optomechanical crystals.

Eichenfield M(1), Chan J, Camacho RM, Vahala KJ, Painter O.

Author information: 
(1)Thomas J. Watson Sr Laboratory of Applied Physics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Nanotechnol. 2009 Nov;4(11):704.

Periodicity in materials yields interesting and useful phenomena. Applied to the 
propagation of light, periodicity gives rise to photonic crystals, which can be
precisely engineered for such applications as guiding and dispersing optical
beams, tightly confining and trapping light resonantly, and enhancing nonlinear
optical interactions. Photonic crystals can also be formed into planar lightwave 
circuits for the integration of optical and electrical microsystems. In a
photonic crystal, the periodicity of the host medium is used to manipulate the
properties of light, whereas a phononic crystal uses periodicity to manipulate
mechanical vibrations. As has been demonstrated in studies of Raman-like
scattering in epitaxially grown vertical cavity structures and photonic crystal
fibres, the simultaneous confinement of mechanical and optical modes in periodic 
structures can lead to greatly enhanced light-matter interactions. A logical next
step is thus to create planar circuits that act as both photonic and phononic
crystals: optomechanical crystals. Here we describe the design, fabrication and
characterization of a planar, silicon-chip-based optomechanical crystal capable
of co-localizing and strongly coupling 200-terahertz photons and 2-gigahertz
phonons. These planar optomechanical crystals bring the powerful techniques of
optics and photonic crystals to bear on phononic crystals, providing exquisitely 
sensitive (near quantum-limited), optical measurements of mechanical vibrations, 
while simultaneously providing strong nonlinear interactions for optics in a
large and technologically relevant range of frequencies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08524 
PMID: 19838165 


148. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):94-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08478. Epub 2009 Oct 14.

Effector T cell interactions with meningeal vascular structures in nascent
autoimmune CNS lesions.

Bartholomäus I(1), Kawakami N, Odoardi F, Schläger C, Miljkovic D, Ellwart JW,
Klinkert WE, Flügel-Koch C, Issekutz TB, Wekerle H, Flügel A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Neurobiology, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):41-2.

The tissues of the central nervous system are effectively shielded from the blood
circulation by specialized vessels that are impermeable not only to cells, but
also to most macromolecules circulating in the blood. Despite this seemingly
absolute seclusion, central nervous system tissues are subject to immune
surveillance and are vulnerable to autoimmune attacks. Using intravital
two-photon imaging in a Lewis rat model of experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis, here we present in real-time the interactive processes between
effector T cells and cerebral structures from their first arrival to manifest
autoimmune disease. We observed that incoming effector T cells successively
scanned three planes. The T cells got arrested to leptomeningeal vessels and
immediately monitored the luminal surface, crawling preferentially against the
blood flow. After diapedesis, the cells continued their scan on the abluminal
vascular surface and the underlying leptomeningeal (pial) membrane. There, the T 
cells encountered phagocytes that effectively present antigens, foreign as well
as myelin proteins. These contacts stimulated the effector T cells to produce
pro-inflammatory mediators, and provided a trigger to tissue invasion and the
formation of inflammatory infiltrations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08478 
PMID: 19829296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1300-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08508.

Exploitation of binding energy for catalysis and design.

Thyme SB(1), Jarjour J, Takeuchi R, Havranek JJ, Ashworth J, Scharenberg AM,
Stoddard BL, Baker D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA. sthyme@u.washington.edu

Enzymes use substrate-binding energy both to promote ground-state association and
to stabilize the reaction transition state selectively. The monomeric homing
endonuclease I-AniI cleaves with high sequence specificity in the centre of a
20-base-pair (bp) DNA target site, with the amino (N)-terminal domain of the
enzyme making extensive binding interactions with the left (-) side of the target
site and the similarly structured carboxy (C)-terminal domain interacting with
the right (+) side. Here we show that, despite the approximate twofold symmetry
of the enzyme-DNA complex, there is almost complete segregation of interactions
responsible for substrate binding to the (-) side of the interface and
interactions responsible for transition-state stabilization to the (+) side.
Although single base-pair substitutions throughout the entire DNA target site
reduce catalytic efficiency, mutations in the (-) DNA half-site almost
exclusively increase the dissociation constant (K(D)) and the Michaelis constant 
under single-turnover conditions (K(M)*), and those in the (+) half-site
primarily decrease the turnover number (k(cat)*). The reduction of activity
produced by mutations on the (-) side, but not mutations on the (+) side, can be 
suppressed by tethering the substrate to the endonuclease displayed on the
surface of yeast. This dramatic asymmetry in the use of enzyme-substrate binding 
energy for catalysis has direct relevance to the redesign of endonucleases to
cleave genomic target sites for gene therapy and other applications.
Computationally redesigned enzymes that achieve new specificities on the (-) side
do so by modulating K(M)*, whereas redesigns with altered specificities on the
(+) side modulate k(cat)*. Our results illustrate how classical enzymology and
modern protein design can each inform the other.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08508 
PMCID: PMC2771326
PMID: 19865174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1287-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08541.

Resolvin D2 is a potent regulator of leukocytes and controls microbial sepsis.

Spite M(1), Norling LV, Summers L, Yang R, Cooper D, Petasis NA, Flower RJ,
Perretti M, Serhan CN.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Therapeutics and Reperfusion Injury, Department of
Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

A growing body of evidence indicates that resolution of acute inflammation is an 
active process. Resolvins are a new family of lipid mediators enzymatically
generated within resolution networks that possess unique and specific functions
to orchestrate catabasis, the phase in which disease declines. Resolvin D2 (RvD2)
was originally identified in resolving exudates, yet its individual contribution 
in resolution remained to be elucidated. Here, we establish RvD2's potent
stereoselective actions in reducing excessive neutrophil trafficking to
inflammatory loci. RvD2 decreased leukocyte-endothelial interactions in vivo by
endothelial-dependent nitric oxide production, and by direct modulation of
leukocyte adhesion receptor expression. In mice with microbial sepsis initiated
by caecal ligation and puncture, RvD2 sharply decreased both local and systemic
bacterial burden, excessive cytokine production and neutrophil recruitment, while
increasing peritoneal mononuclear cells and macrophage phagocytosis. These
multi-level pro-resolving actions of RvD2 translate to increased survival from
sepsis induced by caecal ligation and puncture and surgery. Together, these
results identify RvD2 as a potent endogenous regulator of excessive inflammatory 
responses that acts via multiple cellular targets to stimulate resolution and
preserve immune vigilance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08541 
PMCID: PMC2779525
PMID: 19865173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1282-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08530.

Regulation of inflammatory responses by gut microbiota and chemoattractant
receptor GPR43.

Maslowski KM(1), Vieira AT, Ng A, Kranich J, Sierro F, Yu D, Schilter HC, Rolph
MS, Mackay F, Artis D, Xavier RJ, Teixeira MM, Mackay CR.

Author information: 
(1)Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 384 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, New
South Wales 2010, Australia.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2016 Apr;16(4):206.

The immune system responds to pathogens by a variety of pattern recognition
molecules such as the Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which promote recognition of
dangerous foreign pathogens. However, recent evidence indicates that normal
intestinal microbiota might also positively influence immune responses, and
protect against the development of inflammatory diseases. One of these elements
may be short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), which are produced by fermentation of
dietary fibre by intestinal microbiota. A feature of human ulcerative colitis and
other colitic diseases is a change in 'healthy' microbiota such as
Bifidobacterium and Bacteriodes, and a concurrent reduction in SCFAs. Moreover,
increased intake of fermentable dietary fibre, or SCFAs, seems to be clinically
beneficial in the treatment of colitis. SCFAs bind the G-protein-coupled receptor
43 (GPR43, also known as FFAR2), and here we show that SCFA-GPR43 interactions
profoundly affect inflammatory responses. Stimulation of GPR43 by SCFAs was
necessary for the normal resolution of certain inflammatory responses, because
GPR43-deficient (Gpr43(-/-)) mice showed exacerbated or unresolving inflammation 
in models of colitis, arthritis and asthma. This seemed to relate to increased
production of inflammatory mediators by Gpr43(-/-) immune cells, and increased
immune cell recruitment. Germ-free mice, which are devoid of bacteria and express
little or no SCFAs, showed a similar dysregulation of certain inflammatory
responses. GPR43 binding of SCFAs potentially provides a molecular link between
diet, gastrointestinal bacterial metabolism, and immune and inflammatory
responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08530 
PMCID: PMC3256734
PMID: 19865172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1278-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08503.

Regulation of cortical microcircuits by unitary GABA-mediated volume
transmission.

Oláh S(1), Füle M, Komlósi G, Varga C, Báldi R, Barzó P, Tamás G.

Author information: 
(1)Research Group for Cortical Microcircuits of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences, Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Neuroscience, University of
Szeged, Közép fasor 52, Szeged H-6726, Hungary.

GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) is predominantly released by local interneurons in
the cerebral cortex to particular subcellular domains of the target cells. This
suggests that compartmentalized, synapse-specific action of GABA is required in
cortical networks for phasic inhibition. However, GABA released at the synaptic
cleft diffuses to receptors outside the postsynaptic density and thus tonically
activates extrasynaptic GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, which include subtypes of 
both receptor families especially sensitive to low concentrations of GABA. The
synaptic and extrasynaptic action of GABA corroborates the idea that neurons of
the brain use synaptic (or wiring) transmission and non-synaptic (or volume)
transmission for communication. However, re-uptake mechanisms restrict the
spatial extent of extrasynaptic GABA-mediated effects, and it has been proposed
that the concerted action of several presynaptic interneurons, the sustained
firing of individual cells or an increase in release-site density is required to 
reach ambient GABA levels sufficient to activate extrasynaptic receptors. Here we
show that individual neurogliaform cells release enough GABA for volume
transmission within the axonal cloud and, thus, that neurogliaform cells do not
require synapses to produce inhibitory responses in the overwhelming majority of 
nearby neurons. Neurogliaform cells suppress connections between other neurons
acting on presynaptic terminals that do not receive synapses at all in the
cerebral cortex. They also reach extrasynaptic, delta-subunit-containing GABA(A) 
(GABA(Adelta)) receptors responsible for tonic inhibition. We show that
GABA(Adelta) receptors are localized to neurogliaform cells preferentially among 
cortical interneurons. Neurosteroids, which are modulators of GABA(Adelta)
receptors, alter unitary GABA-mediated effects between neurogliaform cells. In
contrast to the specifically placed synapses formed by other interneurons, the
output of neurosteroid-sensitive neurogliaform cells represents the ultimate form
of the lack of spatial specificity in GABA-mediated systems, leading to
long-lasting network hyperpolarization combined with widespread suppression of
communication in the local circuit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08503 
PMCID: PMC2771344
PMID: 19865171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1274-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08528.

Visual but not trigeminal mediation of magnetic compass information in a
migratory bird.

Zapka M(1), Heyers D, Hein CM, Engels S, Schneider NL, Hans J, Weiler S, Dreyer
D, Kishkinev D, Wild JM, Mouritsen H.

Author information: 
(1)AG Neurosensorik/Animal Navigation, IBU, University of Oldenburg, D-26111
Oldenburg, Germany.

Magnetic compass information has a key role in bird orientation, but the
physiological mechanisms enabling birds to sense the Earth's magnetic field
remain one of the unresolved mysteries in biology. Two biophysical mechanisms
have become established as the most promising magnetodetection candidates. The
iron-mineral-based hypothesis suggests that magnetic information is detected by
magnetoreceptors in the upper beak and transmitted through the ophthalmic branch 
of the trigeminal nerve to the brain. The light-dependent hypothesis suggests
that magnetic field direction is sensed by radical pair-forming photopigments in 
the eyes and that this visual signal is processed in cluster N, a specialized,
night-time active, light-processing forebrain region. Here we report that
European robins with bilateral lesions of cluster N are unable to show oriented
magnetic-compass-guided behaviour but are able to perform sun compass and star
compass orientation behaviour. In contrast, bilateral section of the ophthalmic
branch of the trigeminal nerve in European robins did not influence the birds'
ability to use their magnetic compass for orientation. These data show that
cluster N is required for magnetic compass orientation in this species and
indicate that it may be specifically involved in processing of magnetic compass
information. Furthermore, the data strongly suggest that a vision-mediated
mechanism underlies the magnetic compass in this migratory songbird, and that the
putative iron-mineral-based receptors in the upper beak connected to the brain by
the trigeminal nerve are neither necessary nor sufficient for magnetic compass
orientation in European robins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08528 
PMID: 19865170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08510.

A dearth of intermediate melts at subduction zone volcanoes and the petrogenesis 
of arc andesites.

Reubi O(1), Blundy J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building, 
Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK. olivier.reubi@erdw.ethz.ch

Andesites represent a large proportion of the magmas erupted at continental arc
volcanoes and are regarded as a major component in the formation of continental
crust. Andesite petrogenesis is therefore fundamental in terms of both volcanic
hazard and differentiation of the Earth. Andesites typically contain a
significant proportion of crystals showing disequilibrium petrographic
characteristics indicative of mixing or mingling between silicic and mafic
magmas, which fuels a long-standing debate regarding the significance of these
processes in andesite petrogenesis and ultimately questions the abundance of true
liquids with andesitic composition. Central to this debate is the distinction
between liquids (or melts) and magmas, mixtures of liquids with crystals, which
may or may not be co-genetic. With this distinction comes the realization that
bulk-rock chemical analyses of petrologically complex andesites can lead to a
blurred picture of the fundamental processes behind arc magmatism. Here we
present an alternative view of andesite petrogenesis, based on a review of
quenched glassy melt inclusions trapped in phenocrysts, whole-rock chemistry, and
high-pressure and high-temperature experiments. We argue that true liquids of
intermediate composition (59 to 66 wt% SiO(2)) are far less common in the
sub-volcanic reservoirs of arc volcanoes than is suggested by the abundance of
erupted magma within this compositional range. Effective mingling within upper
crustal magmatic reservoirs obscures a compositional bimodality of melts
ascending from the lower crust, and masks the fundamental role of silicic melts
(>/=66 wt% SiO(2)) beneath intermediate arc volcanoes. This alternative view
resolves several puzzling aspects of arc volcanism and provides important clues
to the integration of plutonic and volcanic records.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08510 
PMID: 19865169 


155. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1265-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08470.

Preserving electron spin coherence in solids by optimal dynamical decoupling.

Du J(1), Rong X, Zhao N, Wang Y, Yang J, Liu RB.

Author information: 
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale and Department
of Modern Physics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui
230026, China. djf@ustc.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1217-8.

To exploit the quantum coherence of electron spins in solids in future
technologies such as quantum computing, it is first vital to overcome the problem
of spin decoherence due to their coupling to the noisy environment. Dynamical
decoupling, which uses stroboscopic spin flips to give an average coupling to the
environment that is effectively zero, is a particularly promising strategy for
combating decoherence because it can be naturally integrated with other desired
functionalities, such as quantum gates. Errors are inevitably introduced in each 
spin flip, so it is desirable to minimize the number of control pulses used to
realize dynamical decoupling having a given level of precision. Such optimal
dynamical decoupling sequences have recently been explored. The experimental
realization of optimal dynamical decoupling in solid-state systems, however,
remains elusive. Here we use pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance to
demonstrate experimentally optimal dynamical decoupling for preserving electron
spin coherence in irradiated malonic acid crystals at temperatures from 50 K to
room temperature. Using a seven-pulse optimal dynamical decoupling sequence, we
prolonged the spin coherence time to about 30 mus; it would otherwise be about
0.04 mus without control or 6.2 mus under one-pulse control. By comparing
experiments with microscopic theories, we have identified the relevant electron
spin decoherence mechanisms in the solid. Optimal dynamical decoupling may be
applied to other solid-state systems, such as diamonds with nitrogen-vacancy
centres, and so lay the foundation for quantum coherence control of spins in
solids at room temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08470 
PMID: 19865168 


156. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1261-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08481.

Acceleration of neutral atoms in strong short-pulse laser fields.

Eichmann U(1), Nubbemeyer T, Rottke H, Sandner W.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Born-Institute, Max-Born-Strasse 2a, 12489 Berlin, Germany.
ulli.eichmann@mbi-berlin.de

A charged particle exposed to an oscillating electric field experiences a force
proportional to the cycle-averaged intensity gradient. This so-called
ponderomotive force plays a major part in a variety of physical situations such
as Paul traps for charged particles, electron diffraction in strong (standing)
laser fields (the Kapitza-Dirac effect) and laser-based particle acceleration.
Comparably weak forces on neutral atoms in inhomogeneous light fields may arise
from the dynamical polarization of an atom; these are physically similar to the
cycle-averaged forces. Here we observe previously unconsidered extremely strong
kinematic forces on neutral atoms in short-pulse laser fields. We identify the
ponderomotive force on electrons as the driving mechanism, leading to ultrastrong
acceleration of neutral atoms with a magnitude as high as approximately 10(14)
times the Earth's gravitational acceleration, g. To our knowledge, this is by far
the highest observed acceleration on neutral atoms in external fields and may
lead to new applications in both fundamental and applied physics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08481 
PMID: 19865167 


157. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1258-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08445.

GRB 090423 at a redshift of z approximately 8.1.

Salvaterra R(1), Valle MD, Campana S, Chincarini G, Covino S, D'Avanzo P,
Fernández-Soto A, Guidorzi C, Mannucci F, Margutti R, Thöne CC, Antonelli LA,
Barthelmy SD, De Pasquale M, D'Elia V, Fiore F, Fugazza D, Hunt LK, Maiorano E,
Marinoni S, Marshall FE, Molinari E, Nousek J, Pian E, Racusin JL, Stella L,
Amati L, Andreuzzi G, Cusumano G, Fenimore EE, Ferrero P, Giommi P, Guetta D,
Holland ST, Hurley K, Israel GL, Mao J, Markwardt CB, Masetti N, Pagani C,
Palazzi E, Palmer DM, Piranomonte S, Tagliaferri G, Testa V.

Author information: 
(1)INAF, Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via E. Bianchi 46, 23807 Merate (LC),
Italy. salvaterra@mib.infn.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1221-3.

Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are produced by rare types of massive stellar explosion. 
Their rapidly fading afterglows are often bright enough at optical wavelengths
that they are detectable at cosmological distances. Hitherto, the highest known
redshift for a GRB was z = 6.7 (ref. 1), for GRB 080913, and for a galaxy was z =
6.96 (ref. 2). Here we report observations of GRB 090423 and the near-infrared
spectroscopic measurement of its redshift, z = 8.1(-0.3)(+0.1). This burst
happened when the Universe was only about 4 per cent of its current age. Its
properties are similar to those of GRBs observed at low/intermediate redshifts,
suggesting that the mechanisms and progenitors that gave rise to this burst about
600,000,000 years after the Big Bang are not markedly different from those
producing GRBs about 10,000,000,000 years later.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08445 
PMID: 19865166 


158. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1254-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08459.

A gamma-ray burst at a redshift of z approximately 8.2.

Tanvir NR(1), Fox DB, Levan AJ, Berger E, Wiersema K, Fynbo JP, Cucchiara A,
Krühler T, Gehrels N, Bloom JS, Greiner J, Evans PA, Rol E, Olivares F, Hjorth J,
Jakobsson P, Farihi J, Willingale R, Starling RL, Cenko SB, Perley D, Maund JR,
Duke J, Wijers RA, Adamson AJ, Allan A, Bremer MN, Burrows DN, Castro-Tirado AJ, 
Cavanagh B, de Ugarte Postigo A, Dopita MA, Fatkhullin TA, Fruchter AS, Foley RJ,
Gorosabel J, Kennea J, Kerr T, Klose S, Krimm HA, Komarova VN, Kulkarni SR,
Moskvitin AS, Mundell CG, Naylor T, Page K, Penprase BE, Perri M, Podsiadlowski
P, Roth K, Rutledge RE, Sakamoto T, Schady P, Schmidt BP, Soderberg AM, Sollerman
J, Stephens AW, Stratta G, Ukwatta TN, Watson D, Westra E, Wold T, Wolf C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leicester, University Road,
Leicester LE1 7RH, UK. nrt3@star.le.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1221-3.

Long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are thought to result from the explosions
of certain massive stars, and some are bright enough that they should be
observable out to redshifts of z > 20 using current technology. Hitherto, the
highest redshift measured for any object was z = 6.96, for a Lyman-alpha emitting
galaxy. Here we report that GRB 090423 lies at a redshift of z approximately 8.2,
implying that massive stars were being produced and dying as GRBs approximately
630 Myr after the Big Bang. The burst also pinpoints the location of its host
galaxy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08459 
PMID: 19865165 


159. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1248-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08473.

The role of DNA shape in protein-DNA recognition.

Rohs R(1), West SM, Sosinsky A, Liu P, Mann RS, Honig B.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Computational Biology and
Bioinformatics, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia
University, 1130 Saint Nicholas Avenue, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1225-6.

The recognition of specific DNA sequences by proteins is thought to depend on two
types of mechanism: one that involves the formation of hydrogen bonds with
specific bases, primarily in the major groove, and one involving
sequence-dependent deformations of the DNA helix. By comprehensively analysing
the three-dimensional structures of protein-DNA complexes, here we show that the 
binding of arginine residues to narrow minor grooves is a widely used mode for
protein-DNA recognition. This readout mechanism exploits the phenomenon that
narrow minor grooves strongly enhance the negative electrostatic potential of the
DNA. The nucleosome core particle offers a prominent example of this effect.
Minor-groove narrowing is often associated with the presence of A-tracts, AT-rich
sequences that exclude the flexible TpA step. These findings indicate that the
ability to detect local variations in DNA shape and electrostatic potential is a 
general mechanism that enables proteins to use information in the minor groove,
which otherwise offers few opportunities for the formation of base-specific
hydrogen bonds, to achieve DNA-binding specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08473 
PMCID: PMC2793086
PMID: 19865164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1227-33. doi: 10.1038/nature08477.

Volatile accretion history of the terrestrial planets and dynamic implications.

Albarède F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Normale Supérieure de Lyon, Université Claude-Bernard Lyon 1, and CNRS, 
46 allée d'Italie, 69007 Lyon, France. albarede@ens-lyon.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Oct 28;467(7319):E6-7.

Accretion left the terrestrial planets depleted in volatile components. Here I
examine evidence for the hypothesis that the Moon and the Earth were essentially 
dry immediately after the formation of the Moon-by a giant impact on the
proto-Earth-and only much later gained volatiles through accretion of wet
material delivered from beyond the asteroid belt. This view is supported by U-Pb 
and I-Xe chronologies, which show that water delivery peaked approximately 100
million years after the isolation of the Solar System. Introduction of water into
the terrestrial mantle triggered plate tectonics, which may have been crucial for
the emergence of life. This mechanism may also have worked for the young Venus,
but seems to have failed for Mars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08477 
PMID: 19865163 


161. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1234-42. doi: 10.1038/nature08403. Epub 2009 Oct
18.

What recent ribosome structures have revealed about the mechanism of translation.

Schmeing TM(1), Ramakrishnan V.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.
schmeing@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

The high-resolution structures of ribosomal subunits published in 2000 have
revolutionized the field of protein translation. They facilitated the
determination and interpretation of functional complexes of the ribosome by
crystallography and electron microscopy. Knowledge of the precise positions of
residues in the ribosome in various states has facilitated increasingly
sophisticated biochemical and genetic experiments, as well as the use of new
methods such as single-molecule kinetics. In this review, we discuss how the
interaction between structural and functional studies over the last decade has
led to a deeper understanding of the complex mechanisms underlying translation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08403 
PMID: 19838167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1243-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08480. Epub 2009 Oct 18.

Genome evolution and adaptation in a long-term experiment with Escherichia coli.

Barrick JE(1), Yu DS, Yoon SH, Jeong H, Oh TK, Schneider D, Lenski RE, Kim JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1219-21.

The relationship between rates of genomic evolution and organismal adaptation
remains uncertain, despite considerable interest. The feasibility of obtaining
genome sequences from experimentally evolving populations offers the opportunity 
to investigate this relationship with new precision. Here we sequence genomes
sampled through 40,000 generations from a laboratory population of Escherichia
coli. Although adaptation decelerated sharply, genomic evolution was nearly
constant for 20,000 generations. Such clock-like regularity is usually viewed as 
the signature of neutral evolution, but several lines of evidence indicate that
almost all of these mutations were beneficial. This same population later evolved
an elevated mutation rate and accumulated hundreds of additional mutations
dominated by a neutral signature. Thus, the coupling between genomic and adaptive
evolution is complex and can be counterintuitive even in a constant environment. 
In particular, beneficial substitutions were surprisingly uniform over time,
whereas neutral substitutions were highly variable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08480 
PMID: 19838166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1292-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08534.

Epigenetic reversion of post-implantation epiblast to pluripotent embryonic stem 
cells.

Bao S(#)(1), Tang F(#)(1), Li X(#)(2), Hayashi K(1), Gillich A(1), Lao K(3),
Surani MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust/Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute of Cancer and Developmental
Biology, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge, CB2 1QN, UK.
(2)College of Life Science, Inner Mongolia University /Mengniu RB CO. Ltd., West 
No.1 Daxue Road, Huhhot, Inner Mongolia 010021, China.
(3)Molecular Cell Biology, Applied Biosystems, 850 Lincoln Centre Drive, Foster
City, CA 94404, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

The pluripotent state, which is first established in the primitive ectoderm cells
of blastocysts, is lost progressively and irreversibly during subsequent
development. For example, development of post-implantation epiblast cells from
primitive ectoderm involves significant transcriptional and epigenetic changes,
including DNA methylation and X chromosome inactivation, which create a robust
epigenetic barrier and prevent their reversion to a primitive-ectoderm-like
state. Epiblast cells are refractory to leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF)-STAT3
signalling, but they respond to activin/basic fibroblast growth factor to form
self-renewing epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs), which exhibit essential properties of
epiblast cells and that differ from embryonic stem (ES) cells derived from
primitive ectoderm. Here we show reprogramming of advanced epiblast cells from
embryonic day 5.5-7.5 mouse embryos with uniform expression of N-cadherin and
inactive X chromosome to ES-cell-like cells (rESCs) in response to LIF-STAT3
signalling. Cultured epiblast cells overcome the epigenetic barrier progressively
as they proceed with the erasure of key properties of epiblast cells, resulting
in DNA demethylation, X reactivation and expression of E-cadherin. The
accompanying changes in the transcriptome result in a loss of phenotypic and
epigenetic memory of epiblast cells. Using this approach, we report reversion of 
established EpiSCs to rESCs. Moreover, unlike epiblast and EpiSCs, rESCs
contribute to somatic tissues and germ cells in chimaeras. Further studies may
reveal how signalling-induced epigenetic reprogramming may promote reacquisition 
of pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08534 
PMCID: PMC3863718
PMID: 19816418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 2009 Oct 29;461(7268):1296-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08501. Epub 2009 Oct 7.

A regulatory circuit for piwi by the large Maf gene traffic jam in Drosophila.

Saito K(1), Inagaki S, Mituyama T, Kawamura Y, Ono Y, Sakota E, Kotani H, Asai K,
Siomi H, Siomi MC.

Author information: 
(1)Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) silence retrotransposons in Drosophila germ lines 
by associating with the PIWI proteins Argonaute 3 (AGO3), Aubergine (Aub) and
Piwi. piRNAs in Drosophila are produced from intergenic repetitive genes and
piRNA clusters by two systems: the primary processing pathway and the
amplification loop. The amplification loop occurs in a Dicer-independent,
PIWI-Slicer-dependent manner. However, primary piRNA processing remains elusive. 
Here we analysed piRNA processing in a Drosophila ovarian somatic cell line where
Piwi, but not Aub or AGO3, is expressed; thus, only the primary piRNAs exist. In 
addition to flamenco, a Piwi-specific piRNA cluster, traffic jam (tj), a large
Maf gene, was determined as a new piRNA cluster. piRNAs arising from tj
correspond to the untranslated regions of tj messenger RNA and are
sense-oriented. piRNA loading on to Piwi may occur in the cytoplasm. zucchini, a 
gene encoding a putative cytoplasmic nuclease, is required for tj-derived piRNA
production. In tj and piwi mutant ovaries, somatic cells fail to intermingle with
germ cells and Fasciclin III is overexpressed. Loss of tj abolishes Piwi
expression in gonadal somatic cells. Thus, in gonadal somatic cells, tj gives
rise simultaneously to two different molecules: the TJ protein, which activates
Piwi expression, and piRNAs, which define the Piwi targets for silencing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08501 
PMID: 19812547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1144-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08474.

Structural basis for translational fidelity ensured by transfer RNA lysidine
synthetase.

Nakanishi K(1), Bonnefond L, Kimura S, Suzuki T, Ishitani R, Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Information, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Kanagawa 225-8501, Japan.

Maturation of precursor transfer RNA (pre-tRNA) includes excision of the 5'
leader and 3' trailer sequences, removal of introns and addition of the CCA
terminus. Nucleotide modifications are incorporated at different stages of tRNA
processing, after the RNA molecule adopts the proper conformation. In bacteria,
tRNA(Ile2) lysidine synthetase (TilS) modifies cytidine into lysidine (L;
2-lysyl-cytidine) at the first anticodon of tRNA(Ile2) (refs 4-9). This
modification switches tRNA(Ile2) from a methionine-specific to an
isoleucine-specific tRNA. However, the aminoacylation of tRNA(Ile2) by
methionyl-tRNA synthetase (MetRS), before the modification by TilS, might lead to
the misincorporation of methionine in response to isoleucine codons. The
mechanism used by bacteria to avoid this pitfall is unknown. Here we show that
the TilS enzyme specifically recognizes and modifies tRNA(Ile2) in its precursor 
form, thereby avoiding translation errors. We identified the lysidine
modification in pre-tRNA(Ile2) isolated from RNase-E-deficient Escherichia coli
and did not detect mature tRNA(Ile2) lacking this modification. Our kinetic
analyses revealed that TilS can modify both types of RNA molecule with comparable
efficiencies. X-ray crystallography and mutational analyses revealed that TilS
specifically recognizes the entire L-shape structure in pre-tRNA(Ile2) through
extensive interactions coupled with sequential domain movements. Our results
demonstrate how TilS prevents the recognition of tRNA(Ile2) by MetRS and achieves
high specificity for its substrate. These two key points form the basis for
maintaining the fidelity of isoleucine codon translation in bacteria. Our
findings also provide a rationale for the necessity of incorporating specific
modifications at the precursor level during tRNA biogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08474 
PMID: 19847269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1139-43. doi: 10.1038/nature08475.

Structural basis for biosynthetic programming of fungal aromatic polyketide
cyclization.

Crawford JM(1), Korman TP, Labonte JW, Vagstad AL, Hill EA, Kamari-Bidkorpeh O,
Tsai SC, Townsend CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University, Maryland 21218, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1068-9.

Polyketides are a class of natural products with diverse structures and
biological activities. The structural variability of aromatic products of fungal 
nonreducing, multidomain iterative polyketide synthases (NR-PKS group of IPKSs)
results from regiospecific cyclizations of reactive poly-beta-keto intermediates.
How poly-beta-keto species are synthesized and stabilized, how their chain
lengths are determined, and, in particular, how specific cyclization patterns are
controlled have been largely inaccessible and functionally unknown until
recently. A product template (PT) domain is responsible for controlling specific 
aldol cyclization and aromatization of these mature polyketide precursors, but
the mechanistic basis is unknown. Here we present the 1.8 A crystal structure and
mutational studies of a dissected PT monodomain from PksA, the NR-PKS that
initiates the biosynthesis of the potent hepatocarcinogen aflatoxin B(1) in
Aspergillus parasiticus. Despite having minimal sequence similarity to known
enzymes, the structure displays a distinct 'double hot dog' (DHD) fold.
Co-crystal structures with palmitate or a bicyclic substrate mimic illustrate
that PT can bind both linear and bicyclic polyketides. Docking and mutagenesis
studies reveal residues important for substrate binding and catalysis, and
identify a phosphopantetheine localization channel and a deep two-part interior
binding pocket and reaction chamber. Sequence similarity and extensive
conservation of active site residues in PT domains suggest that the mechanistic
insights gleaned from these studies will prove general for this class of IPKSs,
and lay a foundation for defining the molecular rules controlling NR-PKS
cyclization specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08475 
PMCID: PMC2872118
PMID: 19847268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1135-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08498.

A transposon-induced epigenetic change leads to sex determination in melon.

Martin A(1), Troadec C, Boualem A, Rajab M, Fernandez R, Morin H, Pitrat M,
Dogimont C, Bendahmane A.

Author information: 
(1)INRA-CNRS, UMR1165, Unité de Recherche en Génomique Végétale, 2 rue Gaston
Crémieux, F-91057 Evry, France.

Sex determination in plants leads to the development of unisexual flowers from an
originally bisexual floral meristem. This mechanism results in the enhancement of
outcrossing and promotes genetic variability, the consequences of which are
advantageous to the evolution of a species. In melon, sexual forms are controlled
by identity of the alleles at the andromonoecious (a) and gynoecious (g) loci. We
previously showed that the a gene encodes an ethylene biosynthesis enzyme,
CmACS-7, that represses stamen development in female flowers. Here we show that
the transition from male to female flowers in gynoecious lines results from
epigenetic changes in the promoter of a transcription factor, CmWIP1. This
natural and heritable epigenetic change resulted from the insertion of a
transposon, which is required for initiation and maintenance of the spreading of 
DNA methylation to the CmWIP1 promoter. Expression of CmWIP1 leads to carpel
abortion, resulting in the development of unisexual male flowers. Moreover, we
show that CmWIP1 indirectly represses the expression of the andromonoecious gene,
CmACS-7, to allow stamen development. Together our data indicate a model in which
CmACS-7 and CmWIP1 interact to control the development of male, female and
hermaphrodite flowers in melon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08498 
PMID: 19847267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1130-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08479.

Unexpected consequences of a sudden and massive transposon amplification on rice 
gene expression.

Naito K(1), Zhang F, Tsukiyama T, Saito H, Hancock CN, Richardson AO, Okumoto Y, 
Tanisaka T, Wessler SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602,
USA.

High-copy-number transposable elements comprise the majority of eukaryotic
genomes where they are major contributors to gene and genome evolution. However, 
it remains unclear how a host genome can survive a rapid burst of hundreds or
thousands of insertions because such bursts are exceedingly rare in nature and
therefore difficult to observe in real time. In a previous study we reported that
in a few rice strains the DNA transposon mPing was increasing its copy number by 
approximately 40 per plant per generation. Here we exploit the completely
sequenced rice genome to determine 1,664 insertion sites using high-throughput
sequencing of 24 individual rice plants and assess the impact of insertion on the
expression of 710 genes by comparative microarray analysis. We find that the vast
majority of transposable element insertions either upregulate or have no
detectable effect on gene transcription. This modest impact reflects a surprising
avoidance of exon insertions by mPing and a preference for insertion into 5'
flanking sequences of genes. Furthermore, we document the generation of new
regulatory networks by a subset of mPing insertions that render adjacent genes
stress inducible. As such, this study provides evidence for models first proposed
previously for the involvement of transposable elements and other repetitive
sequences in genome restructuring and gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08479 
PMID: 19847266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1126-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08487.

The postsynaptic function of type II cochlear afferents.

Weisz C(1), Glowatzki E, Fuchs P.

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Neuroscience, The Center for Hearing and Balance and the
Center for Sensory Biology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The mammalian cochlea is innervated by two classes of sensory neurons. Type I
neurons make up 90-95% of the cochlear nerve and contact single inner hair cells 
to provide acoustic analysis as we know it. In contrast, the far less numerous
type II neurons arborize extensively among outer hair cells (OHCs) and supporting
cells. Their scarcity and smaller calibre axons have made them the subject of
much speculation, but little experimental progress for the past 50 years. Here we
record from type II fibres near their terminal arbors under OHCs to show that
they receive excitatory glutamatergic synaptic input. The type II peripheral
arbor conducts action potentials, but the small and infrequent glutamatergic
excitation indicates a requirement for strong acoustic stimulation. Furthermore, 
we show that type II neurons are excited by ATP. Exogenous ATP depolarized type
II neurons, both directly and by evoking glutamatergic synaptic input. These
results prove that type II neurons function as cochlear afferents, and can be
modulated by ATP. The lesser magnitude of synaptic drive dictates a fundamentally
different role in auditory signalling from that of type I afferents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08487 
PMCID: PMC2785502
PMID: 19847265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1122-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08488.

Sleep deprivation impairs cAMP signalling in the hippocampus.

Vecsey CG(1), Baillie GS, Jaganath D, Havekes R, Daniels A, Wimmer M, Huang T,
Brown KM, Li XY, Descalzi G, Kim SS, Chen T, Shang YZ, Zhuo M, Houslay MD, Abel
T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Group, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Millions of people regularly obtain insufficient sleep. Given the effect of sleep
deprivation on our lives, understanding the cellular and molecular pathways
affected by sleep deprivation is clearly of social and clinical importance. One
of the major effects of sleep deprivation on the brain is to produce memory
deficits in learning models that are dependent on the hippocampus. Here we have
identified a molecular mechanism by which brief sleep deprivation alters
hippocampal function. Sleep deprivation selectively impaired 3', 5'-cyclic AMP
(cAMP)- and protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity in the 
mouse hippocampus, reduced cAMP signalling, and increased activity and protein
levels of phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4), an enzyme that degrades cAMP. Treatment of 
mice with phosphodiesterase inhibitors rescued the sleep-deprivation-induced
deficits in cAMP signalling, synaptic plasticity and hippocampus-dependent
memory. These findings demonstrate that brief sleep deprivation disrupts
hippocampal function by interfering with cAMP signalling through increased PDE4
activity. Thus, drugs that enhance cAMP signalling may provide a new therapeutic 
approach to counteract the cognitive effects of sleep deprivation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08488 
PMCID: PMC2783639
PMID: 19847264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08429.

Convergent evolution of anthropoid-like adaptations in Eocene adapiform primates.

Seiffert ER(1), Perry JM, Simons EL, Boyer DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New
York 11794-8081, USA. erik.seiffert@stonybrook.edu

Adapiform or 'adapoid' primates first appear in the fossil record in the earliest
Eocene epoch ( approximately 55 million years (Myr) ago), and were common
components of Palaeogene primate communities in Europe, Asia and North America.
Adapiforms are commonly referred to as the 'lemur-like' primates of the Eocene
epoch, and recent phylogenetic analyses have placed adapiforms as stem members of
Strepsirrhini, a primate suborder whose crown clade includes lemurs, lorises and 
galagos. An alternative view is that adapiforms are stem anthropoids. This debate
has recently been rekindled by the description of a largely complete skeleton of 
the adapiform Darwinius, from the middle Eocene of Europe, which has been widely 
publicised as an important 'link' in the early evolution of Anthropoidea. Here we
describe the complete dentition and jaw of a large-bodied adapiform (Afradapis
gen. nov.) from the earliest late Eocene of Egypt ( approximately 37 Myr ago)
that exhibits a striking series of derived dental and gnathic features that also 
occur in younger anthropoid primates-notably the earliest catarrhine ancestors of
Old World monkeys and apes. Phylogenetic analysis of 360 morphological features
scored across 117 living and extinct primates (including all candidate stem
anthropoids) does not place adapiforms as haplorhines (that is, members of a
Tarsius-Anthropoidea clade) or as stem anthropoids, but rather as sister taxa of 
crown Strepsirrhini; Afradapis and Darwinius are placed in a geographically
widespread clade of caenopithecine adapiforms that left no known descendants. The
specialized morphological features that these adapiforms share with anthropoids
are therefore most parsimoniously interpreted as evolutionary convergences. As
the largest non-anthropoid primate ever documented in Afro-Arabia, Afradapis
nevertheless provides surprising new evidence for prosimian diversity in the
Eocene of Africa, and raises the possibility that ecological competition between 
adapiforms and higher primates might have played an important role during the
early evolution of stem and crown Anthropoidea in Afro-Arabia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08429 
PMID: 19847263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08513.

Trench-parallel anisotropy produced by serpentine deformation in the hydrated
mantle wedge.

Katayama I(1), Hirauchi K, Michibayashi K, Ando J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Systems Science, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan. katayama@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

Seismic anisotropy is a powerful tool for detecting the geometry and style of
deformation in the Earth's interior, as it primarily reflects the
deformation-induced preferred orientation of anisotropic crystals. Although
seismic anisotropy in the upper mantle is generally attributed to the
crystal-preferred orientation of olivine, the strong trench-parallel anisotropy
(delay time of one to two seconds) observed in several subduction systems is
difficult to explain in terms of olivine anisotropy, even if the entire mantle
wedge were to act as an anisotropic source. Here we show that the
crystal-preferred orientation of serpentine, the main hydrous mineral in the
upper mantle, can produce the strong trench-parallel seismic anisotropy observed 
in subduction systems. High-pressure deformation experiments reveal that the
serpentine c-axis tends to rotate to an orientation normal to the shear plane
during deformation; consequently, seismic velocity propagating normal to the
shear plane (plate interface) is much slower than that in other directions. The
seismic anisotropy estimated for deformed serpentine aggregates is an order of
magnitude greater than that for olivine, and therefore the alignment of
serpentine in the hydrated mantle wedge results in a strong trench-parallel
seismic anisotropy in the case of a steeply subducting slab. This hypothesis is
also consistent with the presence of a hydrous phase in the mantle wedge, as
inferred from anomalously low seismic-wave velocities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08513 
PMID: 19847262 


173. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08438.

Imaging chromophores with undetectable fluorescence by stimulated emission
microscopy.

Min W(1), Lu S, Chong S, Roy R, Holtom GR, Xie XS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1069-70.

Fluorescence, that is, spontaneous emission, is generally more sensitive than
absorption measurement, and is widely used in optical imaging. However, many
chromophores, such as haemoglobin and cytochromes, absorb but have undetectable
fluorescence because the spontaneous emission is dominated by their fast
non-radiative decay. Yet the detection of their absorption is difficult under a
microscope. Here we use stimulated emission, which competes effectively with the 
nonradiative decay, to make the chromophores detectable, and report a new
contrast mechanism for optical microscopy. In a pump-probe experiment, on
photoexcitation by a pump pulse, the sample is stimulated down to the ground
state by a time-delayed probe pulse, the intensity of which is concurrently
increased. We extract the miniscule intensity increase with shot-noise-limited
sensitivity by using a lock-in amplifier and intensity modulation of the pump
beam at a high megahertz frequency. The signal is generated only at the laser
foci owing to the nonlinear dependence on the input intensities, providing
intrinsic three-dimensional optical sectioning capability. In contrast,
conventional one-beam absorption measurement exhibits low sensitivity, lack of
three-dimensional sectioning capability, and complication by linear scattering of
heterogeneous samples. We demonstrate a variety of applications of stimulated
emission microscopy, such as visualizing chromoproteins, non-fluorescent variants
of the green fluorescent protein, monitoring lacZ gene expression with a
chromogenic reporter, mapping transdermal drug distributions without histological
sectioning, and label-free microvascular imaging based on endogenous contrast of 
haemoglobin. For all these applications, sensitivity is orders of magnitude
higher than for spontaneous emission or absorption contrast, permitting
nonfluorescent reporters for molecular imaging.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08438 
PMID: 19847261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08400.

Information causality as a physical principle.

Pawłowski M(1), Paterek T, Kaszlikowski D, Scarani V, Winter A, Zukowski M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Theoretical Physics and Astrophysics, University of Gdańsk,
80-952 Gdańsk, Poland. dokmpa@univ.gda.pl

Quantum physics has remarkable distinguishing characteristics. For example, it
gives only probabilistic predictions (non-determinism) and does not allow copying
of unknown states (no-cloning). Quantum correlations may be stronger than any
classical ones, but information cannot be transmitted faster than light
(no-signalling). However, these features do not uniquely define quantum physics. 
A broad class of theories exist that share such traits and allow even stronger
(than quantum) correlations. Here we introduce the principle of 'information
causality' and show that it is respected by classical and quantum physics but
violated by all no-signalling theories with stronger than (the strongest) quantum
correlations. The principle relates to the amount of information that an observer
(Bob) can gain about a data set belonging to another observer (Alice), the
contents of which are completely unknown to him. Using all his local resources
(which may be correlated with her resources) and allowing classical communication
from her, the amount of information that Bob can recover is bounded by the
information volume (m) of the communication. Namely, if Alice communicates m bits
to Bob, the total information obtainable by Bob cannot be greater than m. For m =
0, information causality reduces to the standard no-signalling principle.
However, no-signalling theories with maximally strong correlations would allow
Bob access to all the data in any m-bit subset of the whole data set held by
Alice. If only one bit is sent by Alice (m = 1), this is tantamount to Bob's
being able to access the value of any single bit of Alice's data (but not all of 
them). Information causality may therefore help to distinguish physical theories 
from non-physical ones. We suggest that information causality-a generalization of
the no-signalling condition-might be one of the foundational properties of
nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08400 
PMID: 19847260 


175. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1084-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08486.

Pten in stromal fibroblasts suppresses mammary epithelial tumours.

Trimboli AJ(1), Cantemir-Stone CZ, Li F, Wallace JA, Merchant A, Creasap N,
Thompson JC, Caserta E, Wang H, Chong JL, Naidu S, Wei G, Sharma SM, Stephens JA,
Fernandez SA, Gurcan MN, Weinstein MB, Barsky SH, Yee L, Rosol TJ, Stromberg PC, 
Robinson ML, Pepin F, Hallett M, Park M, Ostrowski MC, Leone G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, College of Biological Sciences, The Ohio
State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

The tumour stroma is believed to contribute to some of the most malignant
characteristics of epithelial tumours. However, signalling between stromal and
tumour cells is complex and remains poorly understood. Here we show that the
genetic inactivation of Pten in stromal fibroblasts of mouse mammary glands
accelerated the initiation, progression and malignant transformation of mammary
epithelial tumours. This was associated with the massive remodelling of the
extracellular matrix (ECM), innate immune cell infiltration and increased
angiogenesis. Loss of Pten in stromal fibroblasts led to increased expression,
phosphorylation (T72) and recruitment of Ets2 to target promoters known to be
involved in these processes. Remarkably, Ets2 inactivation in Pten stroma-deleted
tumours ameliorated disruption of the tumour microenvironment and was sufficient 
to decrease tumour growth and progression. Global gene expression profiling of
mammary stromal cells identified a Pten-specific signature that was highly
represented in the tumour stroma of patients with breast cancer. These findings
identify the Pten-Ets2 axis as a critical stroma-specific signalling pathway that
suppresses mammary epithelial tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08486 
PMCID: PMC2767301
PMID: 19847259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1071-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08467.

The DNA-damage response in human biology and disease.

Jackson SP(1), Bartek J.

Author information: 
(1)The Gurdon Institute and Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, 
Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK. s.jackson@gurdon.cam.ac.uk

The prime objective for every life form is to deliver its genetic material,
intact and unchanged, to the next generation. This must be achieved despite
constant assaults by endogenous and environmental agents on the DNA. To counter
this threat, life has evolved several systems to detect DNA damage, signal its
presence and mediate its repair. Such responses, which have an impact on a wide
range of cellular events, are biologically significant because they prevent
diverse human diseases. Our improving understanding of DNA-damage responses is
providing new avenues for disease management.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08467 
PMCID: PMC2906700
PMID: 19847258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):E9; discussion E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08404.

Silk production from tarantula feet questioned.

Pérez-Miles F(1), Panzera A, Ortiz-Villatoro D, Perdomo C.

Author information: 
(1)Sección Entomología, Facultad de Ciencias, Iguá 4225, 11400 Montevideo,
Uruguay.

Comment on
    Nature. 2006 Sep 28;443(7110):407.

As with all spiders, tarantulas spin silk from specialized structures in the
abdomen called spinnerets, which are key features unique to the group. Recently
Gorb et al. reported that the zebra tarantula Aphonopelma seemanni also secretes 
silk from its feet, which might improve its ability to climb on vertical
surfaces. Here we show that when the spinnerets are experimentally sealed, the
zebra tarantula cannot secrete silk or similar threads, disagreeing with previous
reports by Gorb et al.. Additional evidence also disagrees with leg secretion of 
silk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08404 
PMID: 19847209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1092-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08442. Epub 2009 Oct 11.

SSB protein diffusion on single-stranded DNA stimulates RecA filament formation.

Roy R(1), Kozlov AG, Lohman TM, Ha T.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign, Illinois 61801, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 17;462(7275):944.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1067-8.

Single-stranded DNA generated in the cell during DNA metabolism is stabilized and
protected by binding of ssDNA-binding (SSB) proteins. Escherichia coli SSB, a
representative homotetrameric SSB, binds to ssDNA by wrapping the DNA using its
four subunits. However, such a tightly wrapped, high-affinity protein-DNA complex
still needs to be removed or repositioned quickly for unhindered action of other 
proteins. Here we show, using single-molecule two- and three-colour fluorescence 
resonance energy transfer, that tetrameric SSB can spontaneously migrate along
ssDNA. Diffusional migration of SSB helps in the local displacement of SSB by an 
elongating RecA filament. SSB diffusion also melts short DNA hairpins transiently
and stimulates RecA filament elongation on DNA with secondary structure. This
observation of diffusional movement of a protein on ssDNA introduces a new model 
for how an SSB protein can be redistributed, while remaining tightly bound to
ssDNA during recombination and repair processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08442 
PMCID: PMC2782680
PMID: 19820696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1098-100. doi: 10.1038/nature08515. Epub 2009 Oct
7.

Saturn's largest ring.

Verbiscer AJ(1), Skrutskie MF, Hamilton DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22904-4325, USA. verbiscer@virginia.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1064-5.

Most planetary rings in the Solar System lie within a few radii of their host
body, because at these distances gravitational accelerations inhibit satellite
formation. The best known exceptions are Jupiter's gossamer rings and Saturn's E 
ring, broad sheets of dust that extend outward until they fade from view at five 
to ten planetary radii. Source satellites continuously supply the dust, which is 
subsequently lost in collisions or by radial transport. Here we report that
Saturn has an enormous ring associated with its outer moon Phoebe, extending from
at least 128R(S) to 207R(S) (Saturn's radius R(S) is 60,330 km). The ring's
vertical thickness of 40R(S) matches the range of vertical motion of Phoebe along
its orbit. Dynamical considerations argue that these ring particles span the
Saturnian system from the main rings to the edges of interplanetary space. The
ring's normal optical depth of approximately 2 x 10(-8) is comparable to that of 
Jupiter's faintest gossamer ring, although its particle number density is several
hundred times smaller. Repeated impacts on Phoebe, from both interplanetary and
circumplanetary particle populations, probably keep the ring populated with
material. Ring particles smaller than centimetres in size slowly migrate inward
and many of them ultimately strike the dark leading face of Iapetus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08515 
PMID: 19812546 


180. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1079-83. doi: 10.1038/nature08441. Epub 2009 Sep
27.

A role for a neo-sex chromosome in stickleback speciation.

Kitano J(1), Ross JA, Mori S, Kume M, Jones FC, Chan YF, Absher DM, Grimwood J,
Schmutz J, Myers RM, Kingsley DM, Peichel CL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Biology, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100
Fairview Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.

Sexual antagonism, or conflict between the sexes, has been proposed as a driving 
force in both sex-chromosome turnover and speciation. Although closely related
species often have different sex-chromosome systems, it is unknown whether
sex-chromosome turnover contributes to the evolution of reproductive isolation
between species. Here we show that a newly evolved sex chromosome contains genes 
that contribute to speciation in threespine stickleback fish (Gasterosteus
aculeatus). We first identified a neo-sex chromosome system found only in one
member of a sympatric species pair in Japan. We then performed genetic linkage
mapping of male-specific traits important for reproductive isolation between the 
Japanese species pair. The neo-X chromosome contains loci for male courtship
display traits that contribute to behavioural isolation, whereas the ancestral X 
chromosome contains loci for both behavioural isolation and hybrid male
sterility. Our work not only provides strong evidence for a large X-effect on
reproductive isolation in a vertebrate system, but also provides direct evidence 
that a young neo-X chromosome contributes to reproductive isolation between
closely related species. Our data indicate that sex-chromosome turnover might
have a greater role in speciation than was previously appreciated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08441 
PMCID: PMC2776091
PMID: 19783981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1110-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08447. Epub 2009 Sep 13.

Atmospheric carbon dioxide through the Eocene-Oligocene climate transition.

Pearson PN(1), Foster GL, Wade BS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF10 3YE, UK. 
pearsonp@cardiff.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1065-6.

Geological and geochemical evidence indicates that the Antarctic ice sheet formed
during the Eocene-Oligocene transition, 33.5-34.0 million years ago. Modelling
studies suggest that such ice-sheet formation might have been triggered when
atmospheric carbon dioxide levels (pCO2atm) fell below a critical threshold of
approximately 750 p.p.m.v., but the timing and magnitude of pCO2atm relative to
the evolution of the ice sheet has remained unclear. Here we use the boron
isotope pH proxy on exceptionally well-preserved carbonate microfossils from a
recently discovered geological section in Tanzania to estimate pCO2atm before,
during and after the climate transition. Our data suggest that are reduction in
pCO2atm occurred before the main phase of ice growth,followed by a sharp recovery
to pre-transition values and then a more gradual decline. During maximum
ice-sheet growth, pCO2atm was between approximately 450 and approximately 1,500
p.p.m.v., with a central estimate of approximately 760 p.p.m.v. The ice cap
survived the period of pCO2atm recovery,although possibly with some reduction in 
its volume, implying (as models predict) a nonlinear response to climate forcing 
during melting. Overall, our results confirm the central role of declining
pCO2atm in the development of the Antarctic ice sheet (in broad agreement with
carbon cycle modelling) and help to constrain mechanisms and feedbacks associated
with the Earth's biggest climate switch of the past 65 Myr.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08447 
PMID: 19749741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):1007-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08456.

DNA demethylation in hormone-induced transcriptional derepression.

Kim MS(1), Kondo T, Takada I, Youn MY, Yamamoto Y, Takahashi S, Matsumoto T,
Fujiyama S, Shirode Y, Yamaoka I, Kitagawa H, Takeyama K, Shibuya H, Ohtake F,
Kato S.

Author information: 
(1)ERATO, Japan Science and Technology Agency, 4-1-8 Honcho, Kawaguchisi, Saitama
332-0012, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):132.

Retraction in
    Kim MS, Kondo T, Takada I, Youn MY, Yamamoto Y, Takahashi S, Matsumoto T,
Fujiyama S, Shirode Y, Yamaoka I, Kitagawa H, Takeyama K, Shibuya H, Ohtake F,
Kato S. Nature. 2012 Jun 14;486(7402):280.

Epigenetic modifications at the histone level affect gene regulation in response 
to extracellular signals. However, regulated epigenetic modifications at the DNA 
level, especially active DNA demethylation, in gene activation are not well
understood. Here we report that DNA methylation/demethylation is hormonally
switched to control transcription of the cytochrome p450 27B1 (CYP27B1) gene.
Reflecting vitamin-D-mediated transrepression of the CYP27B1 gene by the negative
vitamin D response element (nVDRE), methylation of CpG sites ((5m)CpG) is induced
by vitamin D in this gene promoter. Conversely, treatment with parathyroid
hormone, a hormone known to activate the CYP27B1 gene, induces active
demethylation of the (5m)CpG sites in this promoter. Biochemical purification of 
a complex associated with the nVDRE-binding protein (VDIR, also known as TCF3)
identified two DNA methyltransferases, DNMT1 and DNMT3B, for methylation of CpG
sites, as well as a DNA glycosylase, MBD4 (ref. 10).
Protein-kinase-C-phosphorylated MBD4 by parathyroid hormone stimulation promotes 
incision of methylated DNA through glycosylase activity, and a base-excision
repair process seems to complete DNA demethylation in the MBD4-bound promoter.
Such parathyroid-hormone-induced DNA demethylation and subsequent transcriptional
derepression are impaired in Mbd4(-/-) mice. Thus, the present findings suggest
that methylation switching at the DNA level contributes to the hormonal control
of transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08456 
PMID: 19829383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):1002-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08468.

Integrin-linked kinase is an adaptor with essential functions during mouse
development.

Lange A(1), Wickström SA, Jakobson M, Zent R, Sainio K, Fässler R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry,
Martinsried 82152, Germany.

The development of multicellular organisms requires integrin-mediated
interactions between cells and their extracellular environment. Integrin binding 
to extracellular matrix catalyses assembly of multiprotein complexes, which
transduce mechanical and chemical signals that regulate many aspects of cell
physiology. Integrin-linked kinase (Ilk) is a multifunctional protein that binds 
beta-integrin cytoplasmic domains and regulates actin dynamics by recruiting
actin binding regulatory proteins such as alpha- and beta-parvin. Ilk has also
been shown to possess serine/threonine kinase activity and to phosphorylate
signalling proteins such as Akt1 and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (Gsk3beta) in
mammalian cells; however, these functions have been shown by genetic studies not 
to occur in flies and worms. Here we show that mice carrying point mutations in
the proposed autophosphorylation site of the putative kinase domain and in the
pleckstrin homology domain are normal. In contrast, mice with point mutations in 
the conserved lysine residue of the potential ATP-binding site of the kinase
domain, which mediates Ilk binding to alpha-parvin, die owing to renal agenesis. 
Similar renal defects occur in alpha-parvin-null mice. Thus, we provide genetic
evidence that the kinase activity of Ilk is dispensable for mammalian
development; however, an interaction between Ilk and alpha-parvin is critical for
kidney development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08468 
PMID: 19829382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):987-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08495.

Specialized cells tag sexual and species identity in Drosophila melanogaster.

Billeter JC(1), Atallah J, Krupp JJ, Millar JG, Levine JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Toronto at Mississauga, 3359 Mississauga 
Road, Mississauga, Ontario L5L 1C6, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):887-8.

Social interactions depend on individuals recognizing each other, and in this
context many organisms use chemical signals to indicate species and sex.
Cuticular hydrocarbon signals are used by insects, including Drosophila
melanogaster, to distinguish conspecific individuals from others. These chemicals
also contribute to intraspecific courtship and mating interactions. However, the 
possibility that sex and species identification are linked by common chemical
signalling mechanisms has not been formally tested. Here we provide direct
evidence that a single compound is used to communicate female identity among D.
melanogaster, and to define a reproductive isolation barrier between D.
melanogaster and sibling species. A transgenic manipulation eliminated cuticular 
hydrocarbons by ablating the oenocytes, specialized cells required for the
expression of these chemical signals. The resulting oenocyte-less (oe(-)) females
elicited the normal repertoire of courtship behaviours from males, but were
actually preferred over wild-type females by courting males. In addition,
wild-type males attempted to copulate with oe(-) males. Thus, flies lacking
hydrocarbons are a sexual hyperstimulus. Treatment of virgin females with the
aversive male pheromone cis-vaccenyl acetate (cVA) significantly delayed mating
of oe(-) females compared to wild-type females. This difference was eliminated
when oe(-) females were treated with a blend of cVA and the female aphrodisiac
(7Z,11Z)-heptacosadiene (7,11-HD), showing that female aphrodisiac compounds can 
attenuate the effects of male aversive pheromones. 7,11-HD also was shown to have
a crucial role in heterospecific encounters. Specifically, the species barrier
was lost because males of other Drosophila species courted oe(-) D. melanogaster 
females, and D. simulans males consistently mated with them. Treatment of oe(-)
females with 7,11-HD restored the species barrier, showing that a single compound
can confer species identity. These results identify a common mechanism for sexual
and species recognition regulated by cuticular hydrocarbons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08495 
PMID: 19829381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):983-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08461.

An anatomical signature for literacy.

Carreiras M(1), Seghier ML, Baquero S, Estévez A, Lozano A, Devlin JT, Price CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Basque Center on Cognition Brain and Language, Donostia-San Sebastián 20009,
Spain [2] IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao 48011, Spain.
m.carreiras@bcbl.eu

Language is a uniquely human ability that evolved at some point in the roughly
6,000,000 years since human and chimpanzee lines diverged. Even in the most
linguistically impoverished environments, children naturally develop
sophisticated language systems. In contrast, reading is a learnt skill that does 
not develop without intensive tuition and practice. Learning to read is likely to
involve ontogenic structural brain changes, but these are nearly impossible to
isolate in children owing to concurrent biological, environmental and social
maturational changes. In Colombia, guerrillas are re-integrating into mainstream 
society and learning to read for the first time as adults. This presents a unique
opportunity to investigate how literacy changes the brain, without the
maturational complications present in children. Here we compare structural brain 
scans from those who learnt to read as adults (late-literates) with those from a 
carefully matched set of illiterates. Late-literates had more white matter in the
splenium of the corpus callosum and more grey matter in bilateral angular, dorsal
occipital, middle temporal, left supramarginal and superior temporal gyri. The
importance of these brain regions for skilled reading was investigated in early
literates, who learnt to read as children. We found anatomical connections
linking the left and right angular and dorsal occipital gyri through the area of 
the corpus callosum where white matter was higher in late-literates than in
illiterates; that reading, relative to object naming, increased the
interhemispheric functional connectivity between the left and right angular gyri;
and that activation in the left angular gyrus exerts top-down modulation on
information flow from the left dorsal occipital gyrus to the left supramarginal
gyrus. These findings demonstrate how the regions identified in late-literates
interact during reading, relative to object naming, in early literates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08461 
PMID: 19829380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):968-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08484.

Scaleable catalytic asymmetric Strecker syntheses of unnatural alpha-amino acids.

Zuend SJ(1), Coughlin MP, Lalonde MP, Jacobsen EN.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Alpha-amino acids are the building blocks of proteins and are widely used as
components of medicinally active molecules and chiral catalysts. Efficient
chemo-enzymatic methods for the synthesis of enantioenriched alpha-amino acids
have been developed, but it is still a challenge to obtain non-natural amino
acids. Alkene hydrogenation is broadly useful for the enantioselective catalytic 
synthesis of many classes of amino acids, but it is not possible to obtain
alpha-amino acids bearing aryl or quaternary alkyl alpha-substituents using this 
method. The Strecker synthesis-the reaction of an imine or imine equivalent with 
hydrogen cyanide, followed by nitrile hydrolysis-is an especially versatile
chemical method for the synthesis of racemic alpha-amino acids. Asymmetric
Strecker syntheses using stoichiometric amounts of a chiral reagent have been
applied successfully on gram-to-kilogram scales, yielding enantiomerically
enriched alpha-amino acids. In principle, Strecker syntheses employing
sub-stoichiometric quantities of a chiral reagent could provide a practical
alternative to these approaches, but the reported catalytic asymmetric methods
have seen limited use on preparative scales (more than a gram). The limited
utility of existing catalytic methods may be due to several important factors,
including the relatively complex and precious nature of the catalysts and the
requisite use of hazardous cyanide sources. Here we report a new catalytic
asymmetric method for the syntheses of highly enantiomerically enriched
non-natural amino acids using a simple chiral amido-thiourea catalyst to control 
the key hydrocyanation step. This catalyst is robust, without sensitive
functional groups, so it is compatible with aqueous cyanide salts, which are
safer and easier to handle than other cyanide sources; this makes the method
adaptable to large-scale synthesis. We have used this new method to obtain
enantiopure amino acids that are not readily prepared by enzymatic methods or by 
chemical hydrogenation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08484 
PMCID: PMC2778849
PMID: 19829379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):964-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08439.

Quasicrystalline order in self-assembled binary nanoparticle superlattices.

Talapin DV(1), Shevchenko EV, Bodnarchuk MI, Ye X, Chen J, Murray CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA. dvtalapin@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):892-3.

The discovery of quasicrystals in 1984 changed our view of ordered solids as
periodic structures and introduced new long-range-ordered phases lacking any
translational symmetry. Quasicrystals permit symmetry operations forbidden in
classical crystallography, for example five-, eight-, ten- and 12-fold rotations,
yet have sharp diffraction peaks. Intermetallic compounds have been observed to
form both metastable and energetically stabilized quasicrystals; quasicrystalline
order has also been reported for the tantalum telluride phase with an approximate
Ta(1.6)Te composition. Later, quasicrystals were discovered in soft matter,
namely supramolecular structures of organic dendrimers and tri-block copolymers, 
and micrometre-sized colloidal spheres have been arranged into quasicrystalline
arrays by using intense laser beams that create quasi-periodic optical
standing-wave patterns. Here we show that colloidal inorganic nanoparticles can
self-assemble into binary aperiodic superlattices. We observe formation of
assemblies with dodecagonal quasicrystalline order in different binary
nanoparticle systems: 13.4-nm Fe(2)O(3) and 5-nm Au nanocrystals, 12.6-nm
Fe(3)O(4) and 4.7-nm Au nanocrystals, and 9-nm PbS and 3-nm Pd nanocrystals. Such
compositional flexibility indicates that the formation of quasicrystalline
nanoparticle assemblies does not require a unique combination of interparticle
interactions, but is a general sphere-packing phenomenon governed by the entropy 
and simple interparticle potentials. We also find that dodecagonal
quasicrystalline superlattices can form low-defect interfaces with ordinary
crystalline binary superlattices, using fragments of (3(3).4(2)) Archimedean
tiling as the 'wetting layer' between the periodic and aperiodic phases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08439 
PMID: 19829378 


188. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):960-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08432.

Cooper pair splitter realized in a two-quantum-dot Y-junction.

Hofstetter L(1), Csonka S, Nygård J, Schönenberger C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Basel, Klingelbergstrasse 82, CH-4056
Basel, Switzerland.

Non-locality is a fundamental property of quantum mechanics that manifests itself
as correlations between spatially separated parts of a quantum system. A
fundamental route for the exploration of such phenomena is the generation of
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs of quantum-entangled objects for the test of 
so-called Bell inequalities. Whereas such experimental tests of non-locality have
been successfully conducted with pairwise entangled photons, it has not yet been 
possible to realize an electronic analogue of it in the solid state, where
spin-1/2 mobile electrons are the natural quantum objects. The difficulty stems
from the fact that electrons are immersed in a macroscopic ground state-the Fermi
sea-which prevents the straightforward generation and splitting of entangled
pairs of electrons on demand. A superconductor, however, could act as a source of
EPR pairs of electrons, because its ground-state is composed of Cooper pairs in a
spin-singlet state. These Cooper pairs can be extracted from a superconductor by 
tunnelling, but, to obtain an efficient EPR source of entangled electrons, the
splitting of the Cooper pairs into separate electrons has to be enforced. This
can be achieved by having the electrons 'repel' each other by Coulomb
interaction. Controlled Cooper pair splitting can thereby be realized by coupling
of the superconductor to two normal metal drain contacts by means of individually
tunable quantum dots. Here we demonstrate the first experimental realization of
such a tunable Cooper pair splitter, which shows a surprisingly high efficiency. 
Our findings open a route towards a first test of the EPR paradox and Bell
inequalities in the solid state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08432 
PMID: 19829377 


189. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):956-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08500.

Measurement of the charge and current of magnetic monopoles in spin ice.

Bramwell ST(1), Giblin SR, Calder S, Aldus R, Prabhakaran D, Fennell T.

Author information: 
(1)London Centre for Nanotechnology and Department of Physics and Astronomy,
University College London, 17-19 Gordon Street, London WC1H 0AH, UK.
s.t.bramwell@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):888-9.

The transport of electrically charged quasiparticles (based on electrons or ions)
plays a pivotal role in modern technology as well as in determining the essential
functions of biological organisms. In contrast, the transport of magnetic charges
has barely been explored experimentally, mainly because magnetic charges, in
contrast to electric ones, are generally considered at best to be convenient
macroscopic parameters, rather than well-defined quasiparticles. However, it was 
recently proposed that magnetic charges can exist in certain materials in the
form of emergent excitations that manifest like point charges, or magnetic
monopoles. Here we address the question of whether such magnetic charges and
their associated currents-'magnetricity'-can be measured directly in experiment, 
without recourse to any material-specific theory. By mapping the problem onto
Onsager's theory of electrolytes, we show that this is indeed possible, and
devise an appropriate method for the measurement of magnetic charges and their
dynamics. Using muon spin rotation as a suitable local probe, we apply the method
to a real material, the 'spin ice' Dy(2)Ti(2)O(7) (refs 5-8). Our experimental
measurements prove that magnetic charges exist in this material, interact via a
Coulomb potential, and have measurable currents. We further characterize
deviations from Ohm's law, and determine the elementary unit of magnetic charge
to be 5 mu(B) A(-1), which is equal to that recently predicted using the
microscopic theory of spin ice. Our measurement of magnetic charge and magnetic
current establishes an instance of a perfect symmetry between electricity and
magnetism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08500 
PMID: 19829376 


190. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):947-55. doi: 10.1038/nature08435.

Asymmetric centrosome inheritance maintains neural progenitors in the neocortex.

Wang X(1), Tsai JW, Imai JH, Lian WN, Vallee RB, Shi SH.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre, 1275
York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):891-2.

Asymmetric divisions of radial glia progenitors produce self-renewing radial glia
and differentiating cells simultaneously in the ventricular zone (VZ) of the
developing neocortex. Whereas differentiating cells leave the VZ to constitute
the future neocortex, renewing radial glia progenitors stay in the VZ for
subsequent divisions. The differential behaviour of progenitors and their
differentiating progeny is essential for neocortical development; however, the
mechanisms that ensure these behavioural differences are unclear. Here we show
that asymmetric centrosome inheritance regulates the differential behaviour of
renewing progenitors and their differentiating progeny in the embryonic mouse
neocortex. Centrosome duplication in dividing radial glia progenitors generates a
pair of centrosomes with differently aged mother centrioles. During peak phases
of neurogenesis, the centrosome retaining the old mother centriole stays in the
VZ and is preferentially inherited by radial glia progenitors, whereas the
centrosome containing the new mother centriole mostly leaves the VZ and is
largely associated with differentiating cells. Removal of ninein, a mature
centriole-specific protein, disrupts the asymmetric segregation and inheritance
of the centrosome and causes premature depletion of progenitors from the VZ.
These results indicate that preferential inheritance of the centrosome with the
mature older mother centriole is required for maintaining radial glia progenitors
in the developing mammalian neocortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08435 
PMCID: PMC2764320
PMID: 19829375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):941-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08499.

Intracellular dynamics of hippocampal place cells during virtual navigation.

Harvey CD(1), Collman F, Dombeck DA, Tank DW.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):889-90.
    Nat Methods. 2010 Dec;7(12):948-9.

Hippocampal place cells encode spatial information in rate and temporal codes. To
examine the mechanisms underlying hippocampal coding, here we measured the
intracellular dynamics of place cells by combining in vivo whole-cell recordings 
with a virtual-reality system. Head-restrained mice, running on a spherical
treadmill, interacted with a computer-generated visual environment to perform
spatial behaviours. Robust place-cell activity was present during movement along 
a virtual linear track. From whole-cell recordings, we identified three
subthreshold signatures of place fields: an asymmetric ramp-like depolarization
of the baseline membrane potential, an increase in the amplitude of intracellular
theta oscillations, and a phase precession of the intracellular theta oscillation
relative to the extracellularly recorded theta rhythm. These intracellular
dynamics underlie the primary features of place-cell rate and temporal codes. The
virtual-reality system developed here will enable new experimental approaches to 
study the neural circuits underlying navigation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08499 
PMCID: PMC2771429
PMID: 19829374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):930-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08540.

Electrophysiology in the age of light.

Scanziani M(1), Häusser M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biology, University of
California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA.
massimo@ucsd.edu

Electrophysiology, the 'gold standard' for investigating neuronal signalling, is 
being challenged by a new generation of optical probes. Together with new forms
of microscopy, these probes allow us to measure and control neuronal signals with
spatial resolution and genetic specificity that already greatly surpass those of 
electrophysiology. We predict that the photon will progressively replace the
electron for probing neuronal function, particularly for targeted stimulation and
silencing of neuronal populations. Although electrophysiological characterization
of channels, cells and neural circuits will remain necessary, new combinations of
electrophysiology and imaging should lead to transformational discoveries in
neuroscience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08540 
PMID: 19829373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):923-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08539.

Reverse engineering the mouse brain.

O'Connor DH(1), Huber D, Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 19700 Helix
Drive, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.

Behaviour is governed by activity in highly structured neural circuits.
Genetically targeted sensors and switches facilitate measurement and manipulation
of activity in vivo, linking activity in defined nodes of neural circuits to
behaviour. Because of access to specific cell types, these molecular tools will
have the largest impact in genetic model systems such as the mouse. Emerging
assays of mouse behaviour are beginning to rival those of behaving monkeys in
terms of stimulus and behavioural control. We predict that the confluence of new 
behavioural and molecular tools in the mouse will reveal the logic of complex
mammalian circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08539 
PMID: 19829372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):916-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08538.

Multimodal techniques for diagnosis and prognosis of Alzheimer's disease.

Perrin RJ(1), Fagan AM, Holtzman DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Box 8111, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Alzheimer's disease affects millions of people around the world. Currently, there
are no treatments that prevent or slow the disease. Like other neurodegenerative 
diseases, Alzheimer's disease is characterized by protein misfolding in the
brain. This process and the associated brain damage begin years before the
substantial neurodegeneration that accompanies dementia. Studies using new
neuroimaging techniques and fluid biomarkers suggest that Alzheimer's disease
pathology can be detected preclinically. These advances should allow the design
of new clinical trials and early mechanism-based therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08538 
PMCID: PMC2810658
PMID: 19829371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):908-15. doi: 10.1038/nature08537.

Neuroscience in the era of functional genomics and systems biology.

Geschwind DH(1), Konopka G.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neurogenetics and Neurobehavioural Genetics, Department of
Neurology and Semel Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA. dhg@ucla.edu

Advances in genetics and genomics have fuelled a revolution in discovery-based,
or hypothesis-generating, research that provides a powerful complement to the
more directly hypothesis-driven molecular, cellular and systems neuroscience.
Genetic and functional genomic studies have already yielded important insights
into neuronal diversity and function, as well as disease. One of the most
exciting and challenging frontiers in neuroscience involves harnessing the power 
of large-scale genetic, genomic and phenotypic data sets, and the development of 
tools for data integration and mining. Methods for network analysis and systems
biology offer the promise of integrating these multiple levels of data,
connecting molecular pathways to nervous system function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08537 
PMCID: PMC3645852
PMID: 19829370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):900-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08536.

Molecular genetics and imaging technologies for circuit-based neuroanatomy.

Arenkiel BR(1), Ehlers MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3209, Durham, 
North Carolina 27710, USA.

Brain function emerges from the morphologies, spatial organization and patterns
of connectivity established between diverse sets of neurons. Historically, the
notion that neuronal structure predicts function stemmed from classic
histological staining and neuronal tracing methods. Recent advances in molecular 
genetics and imaging technologies have begun to reveal previously unattainable
details about patterns of functional circuit connectivity and the subcellular
organization of synapses in the living brain. This sophisticated molecular and
genetic 'toolbox', coupled with new methods in optical and electron microscopy,
provides an expanding array of techniques for probing neural anatomy and
function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08536 
PMCID: PMC2884271
PMID: 19829369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):992-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08430. Epub 2009 Sep 30.

A secreted complement-control-related protein ensures acetylcholine receptor
clustering.

Gendrel M(1), Rapti G, Richmond JE, Bessereau JL.

Author information: 
(1)ENS, Biology Department, Paris, F-75005 France.

Efficient neurotransmission at chemical synapses relies on spatial congruence
between the presynaptic active zone, where synaptic vesicles fuse, and the
postsynaptic differentiation, where neurotransmitter receptors concentrate.
Diverse molecular systems have evolved to localize receptors at synapses, but in 
most cases, they rely on scaffolding proteins localized below the plasma
membrane. A few systems have been suggested to control the synaptic localization 
of neurotransmitter receptors through extracellular interactions, such as the
pentraxins that bind AMPA receptors and trigger their aggregation. However, it is
not yet clear whether these systems have a central role in the organization of
postsynaptic domains in vivo or rather provide modulatory functions. Here we
describe an extracellular scaffold that is necessary to cluster acetylcholine
receptors at neuromuscular junctions in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. It
involves the ectodomain of the previously identified transmembrane protein LEV-10
(ref. 6) and a novel extracellular protein, LEV-9. LEV-9 is secreted by the
muscle cells and localizes at cholinergic neuromuscular junctions. Acetylcholine 
receptors, LEV-9 and LEV-10 are interdependent for proper synaptic localization
and physically interact based on biochemical evidence. Notably, the function of
LEV-9 relies on eight complement control protein (CCP) domains. These domains,
also called 'sushi domains', are usually found in proteins regulating complement 
activity in the vertebrate immune system. Because the complement system does not 
exist in protostomes, our results suggest that some of the numerous
uncharacterized CCP proteins expressed in the mammalian brain might be directly
involved in the organization of the synapse, independently from immune functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08430 
PMID: 19794415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):980-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08472. Epub 2009 Sep 30.

Cheater-resistance is not futile.

Khare A(1), Santorelli LA, Strassmann JE, Queller DC, Kuspa A, Shaulsky G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, One
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Cooperative social systems are susceptible to cheating by individuals that reap
the benefits of cooperation without incurring the costs. There are various
theoretical mechanisms for the repression of cheating and many have been tested
experimentally. One possibility that has not been tested rigorously is the
evolution of mutations that confer resistance to cheating. Here we show that the 
presence of a cheater in a population of randomly mutated social amoebae can
select for cheater-resistance. Furthermore, we show that this cheater-resistance 
can be a noble strategy because the resister strain does not necessarily exploit 
other strains. Thus, the evolution of resisters may be instrumental in preserving
cooperative behaviour in the face of cheating.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08472 
PMID: 19794414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):976-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08465. Epub 2009 Sep 30.

Ammonia oxidation kinetics determine niche separation of nitrifying Archaea and
Bacteria.

Martens-Habbena W(1), Berube PM, Urakawa H, de la Torre JR, Stahl DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98105, USA. willmmh@u.washington.edu

The discovery of ammonia oxidation by mesophilic and thermophilic Crenarchaeota
and the widespread distribution of these organisms in marine and terrestrial
environments indicated an important role for them in the global nitrogen cycle.
However, very little is known about their physiology or their contribution to
nitrification. Here we report oligotrophic ammonia oxidation kinetics and
cellular characteristics of the mesophilic crenarchaeon 'Candidatus
Nitrosopumilus maritimus' strain SCM1. Unlike characterized ammonia-oxidizing
bacteria, SCM1 is adapted to life under extreme nutrient limitation, sustaining
high specific oxidation rates at ammonium concentrations found in open oceans.
Its half-saturation constant (K(m) = 133 nM total ammonium) and substrate
threshold (<or=10 nM) closely resemble kinetics of in situ nitrification in
marine systems and directly link ammonia-oxidizing Archaea to oligotrophic
nitrification. The remarkably high specific affinity for reduced nitrogen (68,700
l per g cells per h) of SCM1 suggests that Nitrosopumilus-like ammonia-oxidizing 
Archaea could successfully compete with heterotrophic bacterioplankton and
phytoplankton. Together these findings support the hypothesis that nitrification 
is more prevalent in the marine nitrogen cycle than accounted for in current
biogeochemical models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08465 
PMID: 19794413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):971-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08471. Epub 2009 Sep 23.

Extensive dynamic thinning on the margins of the Greenland and Antarctic ice
sheets.

Pritchard HD(1), Arthern RJ, Vaughan DG, Edwards LA.

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, Natural Environment Research Council, Madingley
Road, Cambridge CB3 0ET, UK. hprit@bas.ac.uk

Many glaciers along the margins of the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets are
accelerating and, for this reason, contribute increasingly to global sea-level
rise. Globally, ice losses contribute approximately 1.8 mm yr(-1) (ref. 8), but
this could increase if the retreat of ice shelves and tidewater glaciers further 
enhances the loss of grounded ice or initiates the large-scale collapse of
vulnerable parts of the ice sheets. Ice loss as a result of accelerated flow,
known as dynamic thinning, is so poorly understood that its potential
contribution to sea level over the twenty-first century remains unpredictable.
Thinning on the ice-sheet scale has been monitored by using repeat satellite
altimetry observations to track small changes in surface elevation, but previous 
sensors could not resolve most fast-flowing coastal glaciers. Here we report the 
use of high-resolution ICESat (Ice, Cloud and land Elevation Satellite) laser
altimetry to map change along the entire grounded margins of the Greenland and
Antarctic ice sheets. To isolate the dynamic signal, we compare rates of
elevation change from both fast-flowing and slow-flowing ice with those expected 
from surface mass-balance fluctuations. We find that dynamic thinning of glaciers
now reaches all latitudes in Greenland, has intensified on key Antarctic
grounding lines, has endured for decades after ice-shelf collapse, penetrates far
into the interior of each ice sheet and is spreading as ice shelves thin by
ocean-driven melt. In Greenland, glaciers flowing faster than 100 m yr(-1)
thinned at an average rate of 0.84 m yr(-1), and in the Amundsen Sea embayment of
Antarctica, thinning exceeded 9.0 m yr(-1) for some glaciers. Our results show
that the most profound changes in the ice sheets currently result from glacier
dynamics at ocean margins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08471 
PMID: 19776741 


201. Nature. 2009 Oct 15;461(7266):997-1001. doi: 10.1038/nature08446. Epub 2009 Sep
13.

Spatiotemporal control of cell signalling using a light-switchable protein
interaction.

Levskaya A(1), Weiner OD, Lim WA, Voigt CA.

Author information: 
(1)The Cell Propulsion Lab, UCSF/UCB NIH Nanomedicine Development Center,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94158-2517, USA.

Genetically encodable optical reporters, such as green fluorescent protein, have 
revolutionized the observation and measurement of cellular states. However, the
inverse challenge of using light to control precisely cellular behaviour has only
recently begun to be addressed; semi-synthetic chromophore-tethered receptors and
naturally occurring channel rhodopsins have been used to perturb directly
neuronal networks. The difficulty of engineering light-sensitive proteins remains
a significant impediment to the optical control of most cell-biological
processes. Here we demonstrate the use of a new genetically encoded light-control
system based on an optimized, reversible protein-protein interaction from the
phytochrome signalling network of Arabidopsis thaliana. Because protein-protein
interactions are one of the most general currencies of cellular information, this
system can, in principle, be generically used to control diverse functions. Here 
we show that this system can be used to translocate target proteins precisely and
reversibly to the membrane with micrometre spatial resolution and at the second
timescale. We show that light-gated translocation of the upstream activators of
Rho-family GTPases, which control the actin cytoskeleton, can be used to
precisely reshape and direct the cell morphology of mammalian cells. The
light-gated protein-protein interaction that has been optimized here should be
useful for the design of diverse light-programmable reagents, potentially
enabling a new generation of perturbative, quantitative experiments in cell
biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08446 
PMCID: PMC2989900
PMID: 19749742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):823-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08433.

Structural insights into mechanisms of the small RNA methyltransferase HEN1.

Huang Y(1), Ji L, Huang Q, Vassylyev DG, Chen X, Ma JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Schools of Medicine and
Dentistry, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.

RNA silencing is a conserved regulatory mechanism in fungi, plants and animals
that regulates gene expression and defence against viruses and transgenes. Small 
silencing RNAs of approximately 20-30 nucleotides and their associated effector
proteins, the Argonaute family proteins, are the central components in RNA
silencing. A subset of small RNAs, such as microRNAs and small interfering RNAs
(siRNAs) in plants, Piwi-interacting RNAs in animals and siRNAs in Drosophila,
requires an additional crucial step for their maturation; that is,
2'-O-methylation on the 3' terminal nucleotide. A conserved
S-adenosyl-l-methionine-dependent RNA methyltransferase, HUA ENHANCER 1 (HEN1),
and its homologues are responsible for this specific modification. Here we report
the 3.1 A crystal structure of full-length HEN1 from Arabidopsis in complex with 
a 22-nucleotide small RNA duplex and cofactor product S-adenosyl-l-homocysteine. 
Highly cooperative recognition of the small RNA substrate by multiple RNA binding
domains and the methyltransferase domain in HEN1 measures the length of the RNA
duplex and determines the substrate specificity. Metal ion coordination by both
2' and 3' hydroxyls on the 3'-terminal nucleotide and four invariant residues in 
the active site of the methyltransferase domain suggests a novel Mg(2+)-dependent
2'-O-methylation mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08433 
PMCID: PMC5125239
PMID: 19812675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):809-13. doi: 10.1038/nature08489.

Mutational evolution in a lobular breast tumour profiled at single nucleotide
resolution.

Shah SP(1), Morin RD, Khattra J, Prentice L, Pugh T, Burleigh A, Delaney A,
Gelmon K, Guliany R, Senz J, Steidl C, Holt RA, Jones S, Sun M, Leung G, Moore R,
Severson T, Taylor GA, Teschendorff AE, Tse K, Turashvili G, Varhol R, Warren RL,
Watson P, Zhao Y, Caldas C, Huntsman D, Hirst M, Marra MA, Aparicio S.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 10th Avenue, Vancouver V5Z 1L3,
Canada.

Recent advances in next generation sequencing have made it possible to precisely 
characterize all somatic coding mutations that occur during the development and
progression of individual cancers. Here we used these approaches to sequence the 
genomes (>43-fold coverage) and transcriptomes of an
oestrogen-receptor-alpha-positive metastatic lobular breast cancer at depth. We
found 32 somatic non-synonymous coding mutations present in the metastasis, and
measured the frequency of these somatic mutations in DNA from the primary tumour 
of the same patient, which arose 9 years earlier. Five of the 32 mutations (in
ABCB11, HAUS3, SLC24A4, SNX4 and PALB2) were prevalent in the DNA of the primary 
tumour removed at diagnosis 9 years earlier, six (in KIF1C, USP28, MYH8, MORC1,
KIAA1468 and RNASEH2A) were present at lower frequencies (1-13%), 19 were not
detected in the primary tumour, and two were undetermined. The combined analysis 
of genome and transcriptome data revealed two new RNA-editing events that recode 
the amino acid sequence of SRP9 and COG3. Taken together, our data show that
single nucleotide mutational heterogeneity can be a property of low or
intermediate grade primary breast cancers and that significant evolution can
occur with disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08489 
PMID: 19812674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):802-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08490.

A genome-wide linkage and association scan reveals novel loci for autism.

Weiss LA(1), Arking DE; Gene Discovery Project of Johns Hopkins & the Autism
Consortium, Daly MJ, Chakravarti A.

Collaborators: Arking DE, Brune CW, West K, O'Connor A, Hilton G, Tomlinson RL,
West AB, Cook EH Jr, Chakravarti A, Weiss LA, Green T, Chang SC, Gabriel S, Gates
C, Hanson EM, Kirby A, Korn J, Kuruvilla F, McCarroll S, Morrow EM, Neale B,
Purcell S, Sasanfar R, Sougnez C, Stevens C, Altshuler D, Gusella J, Santangelo
SL, Sklar P, Tanzi R, Daly MJ, Anney R, Bailey AJ, Baird G, Battaglia A, Berney
T, Betancur C, Bölte S, Bolton PF, Brian J, Bryson SE, Buxbaum JD, Cabrito I, Cai
G, Cantor RM, Cook EH Jr, Coon H, Conroy J, Correia C, Corsello C, Crawford EL,
Cuccaro ML, Dawson G, de Jonge M, Devlin B, Duketis E, Ennis S, Estes A, Farrar
P, Fombonne E, Freitag CM, Gallagher L, Geschwind DH, Gilbert J, Gill M, Gillberg
C, Goldberg J, Green A, Green J, Guter SJ, Haines JL, Hallmayer JF, Hus V, Klauck
SM, Korvatska O, Lamb JA, Laskawiec M, Leboyer M, Couteur AL, Leventhal BL, Liu
XQ, Lord C, Lotspeich LJ, Maestrini E, Magalhaes T, Mahoney W, Mantoulan C,
McConachie H, McDougle CJ, McMahon WM, Marshall CR, Miller J, Minshew NJ, Monaco 
AP, Munson J, Nurnberger JI Jr, Oliveira G, Pagnamenta A, Papanikolaou K, Parr
JR, Paterson AD, Pericak-Vance MA, Pickles A, Pinto D, Piven J, Posey DJ, Poustka
A, Poustka F, Regan R, Reichert J, Renshaw K, Roberts W, Roge B, Rutter ML, Salt 
J, Schellenberg GD, Scherer SW, Sheffield V, Sutcliffe JS, Szatmari P, Tansey K, 
Thompson AP, Tsiantis J, Van Engeland H, Vicente AM, Vieland VJ, Volkmar F,
Wallace S, Wassink TH, Wijsman EM, Wing K, Wittemeyer K, Yaspan BL, Zwaigenbaum
L, Morrow EM, Yoo SY, Hill RS, Mukaddes NM, Balkhy S, Gascon G, Al-Saad S, Hashmi
A, Ware J, Joseph RM, LeClair E, Partlow JN, Barry B, Walsh CA, Pauls D, Moilanen
I, Ebeling H, Mattila ML, Kuusikko S, Jussila K, Ignatius J, Sasanfar R, Tolouei 
A, Ghadami M, Rostami M, Hosseinipour A, Valujerdi M, Santangelo SL, Andresen K, 
Winkloski B, Haddad S, Kunkel L, Kohane Z, Tran T, Kong SW, O'Neil SB, Hanson EM,
Hundley R, Holm I, Peters H, Baroni E, Cangialose A, Jackson L, Albers L, Becker 
R, Bridgemohan C, Friedman S, Munir K, Nazir R, Palfrey J, Schonwald A, Simmons
E, Rappaport LA, Gauthier J, Mottron L, Joober R, Fombonne E, Rouleau G,
Rehnstrom K, von Wendt L, Peltonen L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Although autism is a highly heritable neurodevelopmental disorder, attempts to
identify specific susceptibility genes have thus far met with limited success.
Genome-wide association studies using half a million or more markers,
particularly those with very large sample sizes achieved through meta-analysis,
have shown great success in mapping genes for other complex genetic traits.
Consequently, we initiated a linkage and association mapping study using half a
million genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in a common set of
1,031 multiplex autism families (1,553 affected offspring). We identified regions
of suggestive and significant linkage on chromosomes 6q27 and 20p13,
respectively. Initial analysis did not yield genome-wide significant
associations; however, genotyping of top hits in additional families revealed an 
SNP on chromosome 5p15 (between SEMA5A and TAS2R1) that was significantly
associated with autism (P = 2 x 10(-7)). We also demonstrated that expression of 
SEMA5A is reduced in brains from autistic patients, further implicating SEMA5A as
an autism susceptibility gene. The linkage regions reported here provide targets 
for rare variation screening whereas the discovery of a single novel association 
demonstrates the action of common variants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08490 
PMCID: PMC2772655
PMID: 19812673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):793-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08466.

Prohibitin couples diapause signalling to mitochondrial metabolism during ageing 
in C. elegans.

Artal-Sanz M(1), Tavernarakis N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology, Heraklion 71110, Crete, Greece. martal@ibv.csic.es

Marked alterations in cellular energy metabolism are a universal hallmark of the 
ageing process. The biogenesis and function of mitochondria, the
energy-generating organelles in eukaryotic cells, are primary longevity
determinants. Genetic or pharmacological manipulations of mitochondrial activity 
profoundly affect the lifespan of diverse organisms. However, the molecular
mechanisms regulating mitochondrial biogenesis and energy metabolism during
ageing are poorly understood. Prohibitins are ubiquitous, evolutionarily
conserved proteins, which form a ring-like, high-molecular-mass complex at the
inner membrane of mitochondria. Here, we show that the mitochondrial prohibitin
complex promotes longevity by modulating mitochondrial function and fat
metabolism in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We found that prohibitin
deficiency shortens the lifespan of otherwise wild-type animals. Notably,
knockdown of prohibitin promotes longevity in diapause mutants or under
conditions of dietary restriction. In addition, prohibitin deficiency extends the
lifespan of animals with compromised mitochondrial function or fat metabolism.
Depletion of prohibitin influences ATP levels, animal fat content and
mitochondrial proliferation in a genetic-background- and age-specific manner.
Together, these findings reveal a novel mechanism regulating mitochondrial
biogenesis and function, with opposing effects on energy metabolism, fat
utilization and ageing in C. elegans. Prohibitin may have a similar key role in
modulating energy metabolism during ageing in mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08466 
PMID: 19812672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):780-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08458.

Rapid ascent of rhyolitic magma at Chaitén volcano, Chile.

Castro JM(1), Dingwell DB.

Author information: 
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), Institut National des
Sciences de l'Univers (INSU), Université d'Orléans, Université François
Rabelais-Tours, Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans, UMR 6113, Campus
Géosciences, 1A Rue de la Férollerie, 45071 Orléans cedex 2, France.
jonathan.castro@cnrs-orleans.fr

Rhyolite magma has fuelled some of the Earth's largest explosive volcanic
eruptions. Our understanding of these events is incomplete, however, owing to the
previous lack of directly observed eruptions. Chaitén volcano, in Chile's
northern Patagonia, erupted rhyolite magma unexpectedly and explosively on 1 May 
2008 (ref. 2). Chaitén residents felt earthquakes about 24 hours before ash fell 
in their town and the eruption escalated into a Plinian column. Although such
brief seismic forewarning of a major explosive basaltic eruption has been
documented, it is unprecedented for silicic magmas. As precursory volcanic unrest
relates to magma migration from the storage region to the surface, the very short
pre-eruptive warning at Chaitén probably reflects very rapid magma ascent through
the sub-volcanic system. Here we present petrological and experimental data that 
indicate that the hydrous rhyolite magma at Chaitén ascended very rapidly, with
velocities of the order of one metre per second. Such rapid ascent implies a
transit time from storage depths greater than five kilometres to the near surface
in about four hours. This result has implications for hazard mitigation because
the rapidity of ascending rhyolite means that future eruptions may provide little
warning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08458 
PMID: 19812671 


207. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):776-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08399.

Early Palaeogene temperature evolution of the southwest Pacific Ocean.

Bijl PK(1), Schouten S, Sluijs A, Reichart GJ, Zachos JC, Brinkhuis H.

Author information: 
(1)Palaeoecology, Institute of Environmental Biology, Faculty of Science,
Laboratory of Palaeobotany and Palynology, Utrecht University, Budapestlaan 4,
3584 CD Utrecht, The Netherlands. p.k.bijl@uu.nl

Relative to the present day, meridional temperature gradients in the Early Eocene
age ( approximately 56-53 Myr ago) were unusually low, with slightly warmer
equatorial regions but with much warmer subtropical Arctic and mid-latitude
climates. By the end of the Eocene epoch ( approximately 34 Myr ago), the first
major Antarctic ice sheets had appeared, suggesting that major cooling had taken 
place. Yet the global transition into this icehouse climate remains poorly
constrained, as only a few temperature records are available portraying the
Cenozoic climatic evolution of the high southern latitudes. Here we present a
uniquely continuous and chronostratigraphically well-calibrated TEX(86) record of
sea surface temperature (SST) from an ocean sediment core in the East Tasman
Plateau (palaeolatitude approximately 65 degrees S). We show that southwest
Pacific SSTs rose above present-day tropical values (to approximately 34 degrees 
C) during the Early Eocene age ( approximately 53 Myr ago) and had gradually
decreased to about 21 degrees C by the early Late Eocene age ( approximately 36
Myr ago). Our results imply that there was almost no latitudinal SST gradient
between subequatorial and subpolar regions during the Early Eocene age (55-50 Myr
ago). Thereafter, the latitudinal gradient markedly increased. In theory, if
Eocene cooling was largely driven by a decrease in atmospheric greenhouse gas
concentration, additional processes are required to explain the relative
stability of tropical SSTs given that there was more significant cooling at
higher latitudes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08399 
PMID: 19812670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):772-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08293.

Observation of unidirectional backscattering-immune topological electromagnetic
states.

Wang Z(1), Chong Y, Joannopoulos JD, Soljacić M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA. zhwang@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):744-5.

One of the most striking phenomena in condensed-matter physics is the quantum
Hall effect, which arises in two-dimensional electron systems subject to a large 
magnetic field applied perpendicular to the plane in which the electrons reside. 
In such circumstances, current is carried by electrons along the edges of the
system, in so-called chiral edge states (CESs). These are states that, as a
consequence of nontrivial topological properties of the bulk electronic band
structure, have a unique directionality and are robust against scattering from
disorder. Recently, it was theoretically predicted that electromagnetic analogues
of such electronic edge states could be observed in photonic crystals, which are 
materials having refractive-index variations with a periodicity comparable to the
wavelength of the light passing through them. Here we report the experimental
realization and observation of such electromagnetic CESs in a magneto-optical
photonic crystal fabricated in the microwave regime. We demonstrate that, like
their electronic counterparts, electromagnetic CESs can travel in only one
direction and are very robust against scattering from disorder; we find that even
large metallic scatterers placed in the path of the propagating edge modes do not
induce reflections. These modes may enable the production of new classes of
electromagnetic device and experiments that would be impossible using
conventional reciprocal photonic states alone. Furthermore, our experimental
demonstration and study of photonic CESs provides strong support for the
generalization and application of topological band theories to classical and
bosonic systems, and may lead to the realization and observation of topological
phenomena in a generally much more controlled and customizable fashion than is
typically possible with electronic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08293 
PMID: 19812669 


209. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):768-71. doi: 10.1038/nature08396.

Quantum signatures of chaos in a kicked top.

Chaudhury S(1), Smith A, Anderson BE, Ghose S, Jessen PS.

Author information: 
(1)College of Optical Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):736-7.

Chaotic behaviour is ubiquitous and plays an important part in most fields of
science. In classical physics, chaos is characterized by hypersensitivity of the 
time evolution of a system to initial conditions. Quantum mechanics does not
permit a similar definition owing in part to the uncertainty principle, and in
part to the Schrödinger equation, which preserves the overlap between quantum
states. This fundamental disconnect poses a challenge to quantum-classical
correspondence, and has motivated a long-standing search for quantum signatures
of classical chaos. Here we present the experimental realization of a common
paradigm for quantum chaos-the quantum kicked top- and the observation directly
in quantum phase space of dynamics that have a chaotic classical counterpart. Our
system is based on the combined electronic and nuclear spin of a single atom and 
is therefore deep in the quantum regime; nevertheless, we find good
correspondence between the quantum dynamics and classical phase space structures.
Because chaos is inherently a dynamical phenomenon, special significance attaches
to dynamical signatures such as sensitivity to perturbation or the generation of 
entropy and entanglement, for which only indirect evidence has been available. We
observe clear differences in the sensitivity to perturbation in chaotic versus
regular, non-chaotic regimes, and present experimental evidence for dynamical
entanglement as a signature of chaos.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08396 
PMID: 19812668 


210. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):754-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08434.

Nucleation, propagation and cleavage of target RNAs in Ago silencing complexes.

Wang Y(1), Juranek S, Li H, Sheng G, Wardle GS, Tuschl T, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):743-4.

The slicer activity of the RNA-induced silencing complex resides within its
Argonaute (Ago) component, in which the PIWI domain provides the catalytic
residues governing guide-strand mediated site-specific cleavage of target RNA.
Here we report on structures of ternary complexes of Thermus thermophilus Ago
catalytic mutants with 5'-phosphorylated 21-nucleotide guide DNA and
complementary target RNAs of 12, 15 and 19 nucleotides in length, which define
the molecular basis for Mg(2+)-facilitated site-specific cleavage of the target. 
We observe pivot-like domain movements within the Ago scaffold on proceeding from
nucleation to propagation steps of guide-target duplex formation, with duplex
zippering beyond one turn of the helix requiring the release of the 3'-end of the
guide from the PAZ pocket. Cleavage assays on targets of various lengths
supported this model, and sugar-phosphate-backbone-modified target strands showed
the importance of structural and catalytic divalent metal ions observed in the
crystal structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08434 
PMCID: PMC2880917
PMID: 19812667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):747-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08494.

Finding the missing heritability of complex diseases.

Manolio TA(1), Collins FS, Cox NJ, Goldstein DB, Hindorff LA, Hunter DJ, McCarthy
MI, Ramos EM, Cardon LR, Chakravarti A, Cho JH, Guttmacher AE, Kong A, Kruglyak
L, Mardis E, Rotimi CN, Slatkin M, Valle D, Whittemore AS, Boehnke M, Clark AG,
Eichler EE, Gibson G, Haines JL, Mackay TF, McCarroll SA, Visscher PM.

Author information: 
(1)National Human Genome Research Institute, Building 31, Room 4B09, 31 Center
Drive, MSC 2152, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-2152, USA. manoliot@mail.nih.gov

Comment in
    Genet Epidemiol. 2016 Sep;40(6):502-11.

Genome-wide association studies have identified hundreds of genetic variants
associated with complex human diseases and traits, and have provided valuable
insights into their genetic architecture. Most variants identified so far confer 
relatively small increments in risk, and explain only a small proportion of
familial clustering, leading many to question how the remaining, 'missing'
heritability can be explained. Here we examine potential sources of missing
heritability and propose research strategies, including and extending beyond
current genome-wide association approaches, to illuminate the genetics of complex
diseases and enhance its potential to enable effective disease prevention or
treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08494 
PMCID: PMC2831613
PMID: 19812666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):E7; discussion E8. doi: 10.1038/nature08406.

Gal4 turnover and transcription activation.

Collins GA(1), Lipford JR, Deshaies RJ, Tansey WP.

Author information: 
(1)Watson School of Biological Sciences, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New
York 11724, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2006 Aug 31;442(7106):1054-7.

Growing evidence supports the notion that proteasome-mediated destruction of
transcriptional activators can be intimately coupled to their function. Recently,
Nalley et al. challenged this view by reporting that the prototypical yeast
activator Gal4 does not dynamically associate with chromatin, but rather 'locks
in' to stable promoter complexes that are resistant to competition. Here we
present evidence that the assay used to reach this conclusion is unsuitable, and 
that promoter-bound, active Gal4 is indeed susceptible to competition in vivo.
Our data challenge the key evidence that Nalley et al. used to reach their
conclusion, and indicate that Gal4 functions in vivo within the context of
dynamic promoter complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08406 
PMCID: PMC3072683
PMID: 19812621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):819-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08448. Epub 2009 Sep 27.

JAK2 phosphorylates histone H3Y41 and excludes HP1alpha from chromatin.

Dawson MA(1), Bannister AJ, Göttgens B, Foster SD, Bartke T, Green AR, Kouzarides
T.

Author information: 
(1)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research and Department of Haematology,
University of Cambridge, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Activation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) by chromosomal translocations or point
mutations is a frequent event in haematological malignancies. JAK2 is a
non-receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates several cellular processes by
inducing cytoplasmic signalling cascades. Here we show that human JAK2 is present
in the nucleus of haematopoietic cells and directly phosphorylates Tyr 41 (Y41)
on histone H3. Heterochromatin protein 1alpha (HP1alpha), but not HP1beta,
specifically binds to this region of H3 through its chromo-shadow domain.
Phosphorylation of H3Y41 by JAK2 prevents this binding. Inhibition of JAK2
activity in human leukaemic cells decreases both the expression of the
haematopoietic oncogene lmo2 and the phosphorylation of H3Y41 at its promoter,
while simultaneously increasing the binding of HP1alpha at the same site. Tauhese
results identify a previously unrecognized nuclear role for JAK2 in the
phosphorylation of H3Y41 and reveal a direct mechanistic link between two genes, 
jak2 and lmo2, involved in normal haematopoiesis and leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08448 
PMCID: PMC3785147
PMID: 19783980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):788-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08476. Epub 2009 Sep 23.

STING regulates intracellular DNA-mediated, type I interferon-dependent innate
immunity.

Ishikawa H(1), Ma Z, Barber GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University
of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida 33136, USA.

The innate immune system is critical for the early detection of invading
pathogens and for initiating cellular host defence countermeasures, which include
the production of type I interferon (IFN). However, little is known about how the
innate immune system is galvanized to respond to DNA-based microbes. Here we show
that STING (stimulator of interferon genes) is critical for the induction of IFN 
by non-CpG intracellular DNA species produced by various DNA pathogens after
infection. Murine embryonic fibroblasts, as well as antigen presenting cells such
as macrophages and dendritic cells (exposed to intracellular B-form DNA, the DNA 
virus herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) or bacteria Listeria monocytogenes), were
found to require STING to initiate effective IFN production. Accordingly,
Sting-knockout mice were susceptible to lethal infection after exposure to HSV-1.
The importance of STING in facilitating DNA-mediated innate immune responses was 
further evident because cytotoxic T-cell responses induced by plasmid DNA
vaccination were reduced in Sting-deficient animals. In the presence of
intracellular DNA, STING relocalized with TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) from the
endoplasmic reticulum to perinuclear vesicles containing the exocyst component
Sec5 (also known as EXOC2). Collectively, our studies indicate that STING is
essential for host defence against DNA pathogens such as HSV-1 and facilitates
the adjuvant activity of DNA-based vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08476 
PMCID: PMC4664154
PMID: 19776740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):814-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08390. Epub 2009 Sep 23.

Direct RNA sequencing.

Ozsolak F(1), Platt AR, Jones DR, Reifenberger JG, Sass LE, McInerney P, Thompson
JF, Bowers J, Jarosz M, Milos PM.

Author information: 
(1)Helicos BioSciences Corporation, One Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02139, USA. fatihozsolak@gmail.com

Our understanding of human biology and disease is ultimately dependent on a
complete understanding of the genome and its functions. The recent application of
microarray and sequencing technologies to transcriptomics has changed the
simplistic view of transcriptomes to a more complicated view of genome-wide
transcription where a large fraction of transcripts emanates from unannotated
parts of genomes, and underlined our limited knowledge of the dynamic state of
transcription. Most of this broad body of knowledge was obtained indirectly
because current transcriptome analysis methods typically require RNA to be
converted to complementary DNA (cDNA) before measurements, even though the cDNA
synthesis step introduces multiple biases and artefacts that interfere with both 
the proper characterization and quantification of transcripts. Furthermore, cDNA 
synthesis is not particularly suitable for the analysis of short, degraded and/or
small quantity RNA samples. Here we report direct single molecule RNA sequencing 
without prior conversion of RNA to cDNA. We applied this technology to sequence
femtomole quantities of poly(A)(+) Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA using a surface
coated with poly(dT) oligonucleotides to capture the RNAs at their natural
poly(A) tails and initiate sequencing by synthesis. We observed transcript 3' end
heterogeneity and polyadenylated small nucleolar RNAs. This study provides a path
to high-throughput and low-cost direct RNA sequencing and achieving the ultimate 
goal of a comprehensive and bias-free understanding of transcriptomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08390 
PMID: 19776739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):762-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08398. Epub 2009 Sep 20.

Role of the polycomb protein EED in the propagation of repressive histone marks.

Margueron R(1), Justin N, Ohno K, Sharpe ML, Son J, Drury WJ 3rd, Voigt P, Martin
SR, Taylor WR, De Marco V, Pirrotta V, Reinberg D, Gamblin SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biochemistry, New York
University Medical School, 522 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Polycomb group proteins have an essential role in the epigenetic maintenance of
repressive chromatin states. The gene-silencing activity of the Polycomb
repressive complex 2 (PRC2) depends on its ability to trimethylate lysine 27 of
histone H3 (H3K27) by the catalytic SET domain of the EZH2 subunit, and at least 
two other subunits of the complex: SUZ12 and EED. Here we show that the
carboxy-terminal domain of EED specifically binds to histone tails carrying
trimethyl-lysine residues associated with repressive chromatin marks, and that
this leads to the allosteric activation of the methyltransferase activity of
PRC2. Mutations in EED that prevent it from recognizing repressive
trimethyl-lysine marks abolish the activation of PRC2 in vitro and, in
Drosophila, reduce global methylation and disrupt development. These findings
suggest a model for the propagation of the H3K27me3 mark that accounts for the
maintenance of repressive chromatin domains and for the transmission of a histone
modification from mother to daughter cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08398 
PMCID: PMC3772642
PMID: 19767730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):784-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08401. Epub 2009 Sep 16.

Gene therapy for red-green colour blindness in adult primates.

Mancuso K(1), Hauswirth WW, Li Q, Connor TB, Kuchenbecker JA, Mauck MC, Neitz J, 
Neitz M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Box 356485, University of Washington, 1959 North 
East Pacific Street, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):737-9.

Red-green colour blindness, which results from the absence of either the long-
(L) or the middle- (M) wavelength-sensitive visual photopigments, is the most
common single locus genetic disorder. Here we explore the possibility of curing
colour blindness using gene therapy in experiments on adult monkeys that had been
colour blind since birth. A third type of cone pigment was added to dichromatic
retinas, providing the receptoral basis for trichromatic colour vision. This
opened a new avenue to explore the requirements for establishing the neural
circuits for a new dimension of colour sensation. Classic visual deprivation
experiments have led to the expectation that neural connections established
during development would not appropriately process an input that was not present 
from birth. Therefore, it was believed that the treatment of congenital vision
disorders would be ineffective unless administered to the very young. However,
here we show that the addition of a third opsin in adult red-green
colour-deficient primates was sufficient to produce trichromatic colour vision
behaviour. Thus, trichromacy can arise from a single addition of a third cone
class and it does not require an early developmental process. This provides a
positive outlook for the potential of gene therapy to cure adult vision
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08401 
PMCID: PMC2782927
PMID: 19759534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):798-801. doi: 10.1038/nature08463.

Genetic variation in IL28B and spontaneous clearance of hepatitis C virus.

Thomas DL(1), Thio CL, Martin MP, Qi Y, Ge D, O'Huigin C, Kidd J, Kidd K, Khakoo 
SI, Alexander G, Goedert JJ, Kirk GD, Donfield SM, Rosen HR, Tobler LH, Busch MP,
McHutchison JG, Goldstein DB, Carrington M.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University, Division of Infectious Diseases, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is the most common blood-borne infection in the
United States, with estimates of 4 million HCV-infected individuals in the United
States and 170 million worldwide. Most (70-80%) HCV infections persist and about 
30% of individuals with persistent infection develop chronic liver disease,
including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Epidemiological, viral and host
factors have been associated with the differences in HCV clearance or
persistence, and studies have demonstrated that a strong host immune response
against HCV favours viral clearance. Thus, variation in genes involved in the
immune response may contribute to the ability to clear the virus. In a recent
genome-wide association study, a single nucleotide polymorphism (rs12979860) 3
kilobases upstream of the IL28B gene, which encodes the type III interferon
IFN-3, was shown to associate strongly with more than a twofold difference in
response to HCV drug treatment. To determine the potential effect of rs12979860
variation on outcome to HCV infection in a natural history setting, we genotyped 
this variant in HCV cohorts comprised of individuals who spontaneously cleared
the virus (n = 388) or had persistent infection (n = 620). We show that the C/C
genotype strongly enhances resolution of HCV infection among individuals of both 
European and African ancestry. To our knowledge, this is the strongest and most
significant genetic effect associated with natural clearance of HCV, and these
results implicate a primary role for IL28B in resolution of HCV infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08463 
PMCID: PMC3172006
PMID: 19759533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):674-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08444.

A human 5'-tyrosyl DNA phosphodiesterase that repairs topoisomerase-mediated DNA 
damage.

Cortes Ledesma F(1), El Khamisy SF, Zuma MC, Osborn K, Caldecott KW.

Author information: 
(1)Genome Damage and Stability Centre, University of Sussex, Science Park Road,
Falmer, Brighton, Sussex BN1 9RQ, UK. fc55@sussex.ac.uk

Topoisomerases regulate DNA topology and are fundamental to many aspects of
chromosome metabolism. Their activity involves the transient cleavage of DNA,
which, if it occurs near sites of endogenous DNA damage or in the presence of
topoisomerase poisons, can result in abortive topoisomerase-induced DNA strand
breaks. These breaks feature covalent linkage of the enzyme to the DNA termini by
a 3'- or 5'-phosphotyrosyl bond and are implicated in hereditary human disease,
chromosomal instability and cancer, and underlie the clinical efficacy of an
important class of anti-tumour poisons. The importance of liberating DNA termini 
from trapped topoisomerase is illustrated by the progressive neurodegenerative
disease observed in individuals containing a mutation in tyrosyl-DNA
phosphodiesterase 1 (TDP1), an enzyme that cleaves 3'-phosphotyrosyl bonds.
However, a complementary human enzyme that cleaves 5'-phosphotyrosyl bonds has
not been reported, despite the effect of DNA double-strand breaks containing such
termini on chromosome instability and cancer. Here we identify such an enzyme in 
human cells and show that this activity efficiently restores 5'-phosphate termini
at DNA double-strand breaks in preparation for DNA ligation. This enzyme, TTRAP, 
is a member of the Mg(2+)/Mn(2+)-dependent family of phosphodiesterases. Cellular
depletion of TTRAP results in increased susceptibility and sensitivity to
topoisomerase-II-induced DNA double-strand breaks. TTRAP is, to our knowledge,
the first human 5'-tyrosyl DNA phosphodiesterase to be identified, and we suggest
that this enzyme is denoted tyrosyl DNA phosphodiesterase-2 (TDP2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08444 
PMID: 19794497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):669-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08443.

Substrate interactions and promiscuity in a viral DNA packaging motor.

Aathavan K(1), Politzer AT, Kaplan A, Moffitt JR, Chemla YR, Grimes S, Jardine
PJ, Anderson DL, Bustamante C.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Graduate Group, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

The ASCE (additional strand, conserved E) superfamily of proteins consists of
structurally similar ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities
involving metabolism and transport of proteins and nucleic acids in all forms of 
life. A subset of these enzymes consists of multimeric ringed pumps responsible
for DNA transport in processes including genome packaging in adenoviruses,
herpesviruses, poxviruses and tailed bacteriophages. Although their mechanism of 
mechanochemical conversion is beginning to be understood, little is known about
how these motors engage their nucleic acid substrates. Questions remain as to
whether the motors contact a single DNA element, such as a phosphate or a base,
or whether contacts are distributed over several parts of the DNA. Furthermore,
the role of these contacts in the mechanochemical cycle is unknown. Here we use
the genome packaging motor of the Bacillus subtilis bacteriophage varphi29 (ref. 
4) to address these questions. The full mechanochemical cycle of the motor, in
which the ATPase is a pentameric-ring of gene product 16 (gp16), involves two
phases-an ATP-loading dwell followed by a translocation burst of four
2.5-base-pair (bp) steps triggered by hydrolysis product release. By challenging 
the motor with a variety of modified DNA substrates, we show that during the
dwell phase important contacts are made with adjacent phosphates every 10-bp on
the 5'-3' strand in the direction of packaging. As well as providing stable,
long-lived contacts, these phosphate interactions also regulate the chemical
cycle. In contrast, during the burst phase, we find that DNA translocation is
driven against large forces by extensive contacts, some of which are not specific
to the chemical moieties of DNA. Such promiscuous, nonspecific contacts may
reflect common translocase-substrate interactions for both the nucleic acid and
protein translocases of the ASCE superfamily.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08443 
PMCID: PMC2769991
PMID: 19794496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):664-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08397.

Cooperative binding of two acetylation marks on a histone tail by a single
bromodomain.

Morinière J(1), Rousseaux S, Steuerwald U, Soler-López M, Curtet S, Vitte AL,
Govin J, Gaucher J, Sadoul K, Hart DJ, Krijgsveld J, Khochbin S, Müller CW,
Petosa C.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Grenoble Outstation, 6 rue Jules
Horowitz, BP 181, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.

A key step in many chromatin-related processes is the recognition of histone
post-translational modifications by effector modules such as bromodomains and
chromo-like domains of the Royal family. Whereas effector-mediated recognition of
single post-translational modifications is well characterized, how the cell
achieves combinatorial readout of histones bearing multiple modifications is
poorly understood. One mechanism involves multivalent binding by linked effector 
modules. For example, the tandem bromodomains of human TATA-binding
protein-associated factor-1 (TAF1) bind better to a diacetylated histone H4 tail 
than to monoacetylated tails, a cooperative effect attributed to each bromodomain
engaging one acetyl-lysine mark. Here we report a distinct mechanism of
combinatorial readout for the mouse TAF1 homologue Brdt, a testis-specific member
of the BET protein family. Brdt associates with hyperacetylated histone H4 (ref. 
7) and is implicated in the marked chromatin remodelling that follows histone
hyperacetylation during spermiogenesis, the stage of spermatogenesis in which
post-meiotic germ cells mature into fully differentiated sperm. Notably, we find 
that a single bromodomain (BD1) of Brdt is responsible for selectively
recognizing histone H4 tails bearing two or more acetylation marks. The crystal
structure of BD1 bound to a diacetylated H4 tail shows how two acetyl-lysine
residues cooperate to interact with one binding pocket. Structure-based
mutagenesis that reduces the selectivity of BD1 towards diacetylated tails
destabilizes the association of Brdt with acetylated chromatin in vivo.
Structural analysis suggests that other chromatin-associated proteins may be
capable of a similar mode of ligand recognition, including yeast Bdf1, human TAF1
and human CBP/p300 (also known as CREBBP and EP300, respectively). Our findings
describe a new mechanism for the combinatorial readout of histone modifications
in which a single effector module engages two marks on a histone tail as a
composite binding epitope.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08397 
PMID: 19794495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):659-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08402.

Membrane-bound Fas ligand only is essential for Fas-induced apoptosis.

O' Reilly LA(1), Tai L, Lee L, Kruse EA, Grabow S, Fairlie WD, Haynes NM,
Tarlinton DM, Zhang JG, Belz GT, Smyth MJ, Bouillet P, Robb L, Strasser A.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria
3052, Australia.

Fas ligand (FasL), an apoptosis-inducing member of the TNF cytokine family, and
its receptor Fas are critical for the shutdown of chronic immune responses and
prevention of autoimmunity. Accordingly, mutations in their genes cause severe
lymphadenopathy and autoimmune disease in mice and humans. FasL function is
regulated by deposition in the plasma membrane and metalloprotease-mediated
shedding. Here we generated gene-targeted mice that selectively lack either
secreted FasL (sFasL) or membrane-bound FasL (mFasL) to resolve which of these
forms is required for cell killing and to explore their hypothesized
non-apoptotic activities. Mice lacking sFasL (FasL(Deltas/Deltas)) appeared
normal and their T cells readily killed target cells, whereas T cells lacking
mFasL (FasL(Deltam/Deltam)) could not kill cells through Fas activation.
FasL(Deltam/Deltam) mice developed lymphadenopathy and hyper-gammaglobulinaemia, 
similar to FasL(gld/gld) mice, which express a mutant form of FasL that cannot
bind Fas, but surprisingly, FasL(Deltam/Deltam) mice (on a C57BL/6 background)
succumbed to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)-like autoimmune kidney
destruction and histiocytic sarcoma, diseases that occur only rarely and much
later in FasL(gld/gld) mice. These results demonstrate that mFasL is essential
for cytotoxic activity and constitutes the guardian against lymphadenopathy,
autoimmunity and cancer, whereas excess sFasL appears to promote autoimmunity and
tumorigenesis through non-apoptotic activities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08402 
PMCID: PMC2785124
PMID: 19794494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):654-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08455.

Discovery of Atg5/Atg7-independent alternative macroautophagy.

Nishida Y(1), Arakawa S, Fujitani K, Yamaguchi H, Mizuta T, Kanaseki T, Komatsu
M, Otsu K, Tsujimoto Y, Shimizu S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathological Cell Biology, Medical Research Institute, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 May 5;533(7601):130.

Macroautophagy is a process that leads to the bulk degradation of subcellular
constituents by producing autophagosomes/autolysosomes. It is believed that Atg5 
(ref. 4) and Atg7 (ref. 5) are essential genes for mammalian macroautophagy. Here
we show, however, that mouse cells lacking Atg5 or Atg7 can still form
autophagosomes/autolysosomes and perform autophagy-mediated protein degradation
when subjected to certain stressors. Although lipidation of the
microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3, also known as Map1lc3a) to
form LC3-II is generally considered to be a good indicator of macroautophagy, it 
did not occur during the Atg5/Atg7-independent alternative process of
macroautophagy. We also found that this alternative process of macroautophagy was
regulated by several autophagic proteins, including Unc-51-like kinase 1 (Ulk1)
and beclin 1. Unlike conventional macroautophagy, autophagosomes seemed to be
generated in a Rab9-dependent manner by the fusion of isolation membranes with
vesicles derived from the trans-Golgi and late endosomes. In vivo,
Atg5-independent alternative macroautophagy was detected in several embryonic
tissues. It also had a function in clearing mitochondria during erythroid
maturation. These results indicate that mammalian macroautophagy can occur
through at least two different pathways: an Atg5/Atg7-dependent conventional
pathway and an Atg5/Atg7-independent alternative pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08455 
PMID: 19794493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):644-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08431.

Robust discrimination between self and non-self neurites requires thousands of
Dscam1 isoforms.

Hattori D(1), Chen Y, Matthews BJ, Salwinski L, Sabatti C, Grueber WB, Zipursky
SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, David
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.

Down Syndrome cell adhesion molecule (Dscam) genes encode neuronal cell
recognition proteins of the immunoglobulin superfamily. In Drosophila, Dscam1
generates 19,008 different ectodomains by alternative splicing of three exon
clusters, each encoding half or a complete variable immunoglobulin domain.
Identical isoforms bind to each other, but rarely to isoforms differing at any
one of the variable immunoglobulin domains. Binding between isoforms on opposing 
membranes promotes repulsion. Isoform diversity provides the molecular basis for 
neurite self-avoidance. Self-avoidance refers to the tendency of branches from
the same neuron (self-branches) to selectively avoid one another. To ensure that 
repulsion is restricted to self-branches, different neurons express different
sets of isoforms in a biased stochastic fashion. Genetic studies demonstrated
that Dscam1 diversity has a profound role in wiring the fly brain. Here we show
how many isoforms are required to provide an identification system that prevents 
non-self branches from inappropriately recognizing each other. Using homologous
recombination, we generated mutant animals encoding 12, 24, 576 and 1,152
potential isoforms. Mutant animals with deletions encoding 4,752 and 14,256
isoforms were also analysed. Branching phenotypes were assessed in three classes 
of neurons. Branching patterns improved as the potential number of isoforms
increased, and this was independent of the identity of the isoforms. Although
branching defects in animals with 1,152 potential isoforms remained substantial, 
animals with 4,752 isoforms were indistinguishable from wild-type controls.
Mathematical modelling studies were consistent with the experimental results that
thousands of isoforms are necessary to ensure acquisition of unique Dscam1
identities in many neurons. We conclude that thousands of isoforms are essential 
to provide neurons with a robust discrimination mechanism to distinguish between 
self and non-self during self-avoidance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08431 
PMCID: PMC2836808
PMID: 19794492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):640-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08322.

A pre-Archaeopteryx troodontid theropod from China with long feathers on the
metatarsus.

Hu D(1), Hou L, Zhang L, Xu X.

Author information: 
(1)Paleontological Institute, Shenyang Normal University, 253 North Huanghe
Street, Shenyang 110034, China. hudongyu@synu.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):601-2.

The early evolution of the major groups of derived non-avialan theropods is still
not well understood, mainly because of their poor fossil record in the Jurassic. 
A well-known result of this problem is the 'temporal paradox' argument that is
sometimes made against the theropod hypothesis of avian origins. Here we report
on an exceptionally well-preserved small theropod specimen collected from the
earliest Late Jurassic Tiaojishan Formation of western Liaoning, China. The
specimen is referable to the Troodontidae, which are among the theropods most
closely related to birds. This new find refutes the 'temporal paradox'1 and
provides significant information on the temporal framework of theropod
divergence. Furthermore, the extensive feathering of this specimen, particularly 
the attachment of long pennaceous feathers to the pes, sheds new light on the
early evolution of feathers and demonstrates the complex distribution of skeletal
and integumentary features close to the dinosaur-bird transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08322 
PMID: 19794491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):636-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08395.

Remote triggering of fault-strength changes on the San Andreas fault at
Parkfield.

Taira T(1), Silver PG, Niu F, Nadeau RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of Washington,
District of Columbia 20015, USA. taira@dtm.ciw.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 3;462(7273):674.

Fault strength is a fundamental property of seismogenic zones, and its temporal
changes can increase or decrease the likelihood of failure and the ultimate
triggering of seismic events. Although changes in fault strength have been
suggested to explain various phenomena, such as the remote triggering of
seismicity, there has been no means of actually monitoring this important
property in situ. Here we argue that approximately 20 years of observation
(1987-2008) of the Parkfield area at the San Andreas fault have revealed a means 
of monitoring fault strength. We have identified two occasions where long-term
changes in fault strength have been most probably induced remotely by large
seismic events, namely the 2004 magnitude (M) 9.1 Sumatra-Andaman earthquake and 
the earlier 1992 M = 7.3 Landers earthquake. In both cases, the change possessed 
two manifestations: temporal variations in the properties of seismic
scatterers-probably reflecting the stress-induced migration of fluids-and
systematic temporal variations in the characteristics of repeating-earthquake
sequences that are most consistent with changes in fault strength. In the case of
the 1992 Landers earthquake, a period of reduced strength probably triggered the 
1993 Parkfield aseismic transient as well as the accompanying cluster of four M >
4 earthquakes at Parkfield. The fault-strength changes produced by the distant
2004 Sumatra-Andaman earthquake are especially important, as they suggest that
the very largest earthquakes may have a global influence on the strength of the
Earth's fault systems. As such a perturbation would bring many fault zones closer
to failure, it should lead to temporal clustering of global seismicity. This
hypothesis seems to be supported by the unusually high number of M >or= 8
earthquakes occurring in the few years following the 2004 Sumatra-Andaman
earthquake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08395 
PMID: 19794490 


227. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):633-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08326.

X-ray observation of a transient hemiaminal trapped in a porous network.

Kawamichi T(1), Haneda T, Kawano M, Fujita M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry, School of Engineering, The University of
Tokyo, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):602-3.

X-ray crystallography is the method of choice for the direct structural analysis 
of crystalline compounds. Extending its use to the in situ mapping of chemical
transformations could provide valuable insights, as illustrated by time-resolved 
X-ray crystallography studies; however, the transient nature of unstable reaction
intermediates often poses a significant challenge. It has recently been
demonstrated that standard chemical reactions can occur within the pores of
porous coordination networks and that the robust crystallinity of these networks 
facilitates in situ X-ray analysis of the adducts and products. Here we show that
such systems even enable X-ray observations of reaction intermediates that are
usually transient and non-isolable. Our proof-of-concept demonstration examines
the simple and ubiquitous reaction between an amine and an aldehyde, which
normally form a very short-lived hemiaminal that then yields the Schiff-base
product. The mechanism of this reaction has been exhaustively examined, but the
hemiaminal intermediate has only rarely been observed. We first determine the
structure of a porous network with an aromatic amine embedded in it, then diffuse
an aldehyde substrate into the material to transform the amine into a hemiaminal 
intermediate that is kinetically trapped and thus amenable to X-ray analysis, and
finally raise the temperature of the system to obtain the imine product and
determine its structure. These results establish that porous network materials
provide a means of obtaining sequential X-ray-based snapshots of the structural
transformations that occur during chemical reactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08326 
PMID: 19794489 


228. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):627-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08437.

Universality of galactic surface densities within one dark halo scale-length.

Gentile G(1), Famaey B, Zhao H, Salucci P.

Author information: 
(1)Sterrenkundig Observatorium, Universiteit Gent, Krijgslaan 281, B-9000 Gent,
Belgium. gianfranco.gentile@ugent.be

It was recently discovered that the mean dark matter surface density within one
dark halo scale-length (the radius within which the volume density profile of
dark matter remains approximately flat) is constant across a wide range of
galaxies. This scaling relation holds for galaxies spanning a luminosity range of
14 magnitudes and the whole Hubble sequence. Here we report that the luminous
matter surface density is also constant within one scale-length of the dark halo.
This means that the gravitational acceleration generated by the luminous
component in galaxies is always the same at this radius. Although the total
luminous-to-dark matter ratio is not constant, within one halo scale-length it is
constant. Our finding can be interpreted as a close correlation between the
enclosed surface densities of luminous and dark matter in galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08437 
PMID: 19794488 


229. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):607-13. doi: 10.1038/nature08281.

Untangling aerosol effects on clouds and precipitation in a buffered system.

Stevens B(1), Feingold G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Meteorologie, KlimaCampus, 20251 Hamburg, Germany.
bjorn.stevens@zmaw.de

It is thought that changes in the concentration of cloud-active aerosol can alter
the precipitation efficiency of clouds, thereby changing cloud amount and, hence,
the radiative forcing of the climate system. Despite decades of research, it has 
proved frustratingly difficult to establish climatically meaningful relationships
among the aerosol, clouds and precipitation. As a result, the climatic effect of 
the aerosol remains controversial. We propose that the difficulty in untangling
relationships among the aerosol, clouds and precipitation reflects the inadequacy
of existing tools and methodologies and a failure to account for processes that
buffer cloud and precipitation responses to aerosol perturbations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08281 
PMID: 19794487 


230. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):614-20. doi: 10.1038/nature08356. Epub 2009 Sep 16.

Tankyrase inhibition stabilizes axin and antagonizes Wnt signalling.

Huang SM(1), Mishina YM, Liu S, Cheung A, Stegmeier F, Michaud GA, Charlat O,
Wiellette E, Zhang Y, Wiessner S, Hild M, Shi X, Wilson CJ, Mickanin C, Myer V,
Fazal A, Tomlinson R, Serluca F, Shao W, Cheng H, Shultz M, Rau C, Schirle M,
Schlegl J, Ghidelli S, Fawell S, Lu C, Curtis D, Kirschner MW, Lengauer C, Finan 
PM, Tallarico JA, Bouwmeester T, Porter JA, Bauer A, Cong F.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, 250 Massachusetts Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):599-600.

The stability of the Wnt pathway transcription factor beta-catenin is tightly
regulated by the multi-subunit destruction complex. Deregulated Wnt pathway
activity has been implicated in many cancers, making this pathway an attractive
target for anticancer therapies. However, the development of targeted Wnt pathway
inhibitors has been hampered by the limited number of pathway components that are
amenable to small molecule inhibition. Here, we used a chemical genetic screen to
identify a small molecule, XAV939, which selectively inhibits
beta-catenin-mediated transcription. XAV939 stimulates beta-catenin degradation
by stabilizing axin, the concentration-limiting component of the destruction
complex. Using a quantitative chemical proteomic approach, we discovered that
XAV939 stabilizes axin by inhibiting the poly-ADP-ribosylating enzymes tankyrase 
1 and tankyrase 2. Both tankyrase isoforms interact with a highly conserved
domain of axin and stimulate its degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome
pathway. Thus, our study provides new mechanistic insights into the regulation of
axin protein homeostasis and presents new avenues for targeted Wnt pathway
therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08356 
PMID: 19759537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):621-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08357. Epub 2009 Sep 16.

Inhibitors selective for mycobacterial versus human proteasomes.

Lin G(1), Li D, de Carvalho LP, Deng H, Tao H, Vogt G, Wu K, Schneider J,
Chidawanyika T, Warren JD, Li H, Nathan C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New 
York, New York 10065, USA. gal2005@med.cornell.edu

Many anti-infectives inhibit the synthesis of bacterial proteins, but none
selectively inhibits their degradation. Most anti-infectives kill replicating
pathogens, but few preferentially kill pathogens that have been forced into a
non-replicating state by conditions in the host. To explore these alternative
approaches we sought selective inhibitors of the proteasome of Mycobacterium
tuberculosis. Given that the proteasome structure is extensively conserved, it is
not surprising that inhibitors of all chemical classes tested have blocked both
eukaryotic and prokaryotic proteasomes, and no inhibitor has proved substantially
more potent on proteasomes of pathogens than of their hosts. Here we show that
certain oxathiazol-2-one compounds kill non-replicating M. tuberculosis and act
as selective suicide-substrate inhibitors of the M. tuberculosis proteasome by
cyclocarbonylating its active site threonine. Major conformational changes
protect the inhibitor-enzyme intermediate from hydrolysis, allowing formation of 
an oxazolidin-2-one and preventing regeneration of active protease. Residues
outside the active site whose hydrogen bonds stabilize the critical loop before
and after it moves are extensively non-conserved. This may account for the
ability of oxathiazol-2-one compounds to inhibit the mycobacterial proteasome
potently and irreversibly while largely sparing the human homologue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08357 
PMCID: PMC3172082
PMID: 19759536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):629-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08364. Epub 2009 Aug 30.

Plasmon lasers at deep subwavelength scale.

Oulton RF(1), Sorger VJ, Zentgraf T, Ma RM, Gladden C, Dai L, Bartal G, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)NSF Nanoscale Science and Engineering Centre, 3112 Etcheverry Hall, University
of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):604-5.
    Nat Nanotechnol. 2009 Nov;4(11):706-7.

Laser science has been successful in producing increasingly high-powered, faster 
and smaller coherent light sources. Examples of recent advances are microscopic
lasers that can reach the diffraction limit, based on photonic crystals,
metal-clad cavities and nanowires. However, such lasers are restricted, both in
optical mode size and physical device dimension, to being larger than half the
wavelength of the optical field, and it remains a key fundamental challenge to
realize ultracompact lasers that can directly generate coherent optical fields at
the nanometre scale, far beyond the diffraction limit. A way of addressing this
issue is to make use of surface plasmons, which are capable of tightly localizing
light, but so far ohmic losses at optical frequencies have inhibited the
realization of truly nanometre-scale lasers based on such approaches. A recent
theoretical work predicted that such losses could be significantly reduced while 
maintaining ultrasmall modes in a hybrid plasmonic waveguide. Here we report the 
experimental demonstration of nanometre-scale plasmonic lasers, generating
optical modes a hundred times smaller than the diffraction limit. We realize such
lasers using a hybrid plasmonic waveguide consisting of a high-gain cadmium
sulphide semiconductor nanowire, separated from a silver surface by a 5-nm-thick 
insulating gap. Direct measurements of the emission lifetime reveal a broad-band 
enhancement of the nanowire's exciton spontaneous emission rate by up to six
times owing to the strong mode confinement and the signature of apparently
threshold-less lasing. Because plasmonic modes have no cutoff, we are able to
demonstrate downscaling of the lateral dimensions of both the device and the
optical mode. Plasmonic lasers thus offer the possibility of exploring extreme
interactions between light and matter, opening up new avenues in the fields of
active photonic circuits, bio-sensing and quantum information technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08364 
PMID: 19718019 


233. Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):649-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08436.

Direct reprogramming of human neural stem cells by OCT4.

Kim JB(1), Greber B, Araúzo-Bravo MJ, Meyer J, Park KI, Zaehres H, Schöler HR.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Biomedicine, Department of Cell and
Developmental Biology, Röntgenstrasse 20, 48149 Münster, NRW, Germany.

Induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells have been generated from mouse and human
somatic cells by ectopic expression of four transcription factors (OCT4 (also
called POU5F1), SOX2, c-Myc and KLF4). We previously reported that Oct4 alone is 
sufficient to reprogram directly adult mouse neural stem cells to iPS cells. Here
we report the generation of one-factor human iPS cells from human fetal neural
stem cells (one-factor (1F) human NiPS cells) by ectopic expression of OCT4
alone. One-factor human NiPS cells resemble human embryonic stem cells in global 
gene expression profiles, epigenetic status, as well as pluripotency in vitro and
in vivo. These findings demonstrate that the transcription factor OCT4 is
sufficient to reprogram human neural stem cells to pluripotency. One-factor iPS
cell generation will advance the field further towards understanding
reprogramming and generating patient-specific pluripotent stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08436 
PMID: 19718018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):515-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08249.

An epistatic ratchet constrains the direction of glucocorticoid receptor
evolution.

Bridgham JT(1), Ortlund EA, Thornton JW.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Oregon, Eugene,
Oregon 97403, USA.

The extent to which evolution is reversible has long fascinated biologists. Most 
previous work on the reversibility of morphological and life-history evolution
has been indecisive, because of uncertainty and bias in the methods used to infer
ancestral states for such characters. Further, despite theoretical work on the
factors that could contribute to irreversibility, there is little empirical
evidence on its causes, because sufficient understanding of the mechanistic basis
for the evolution of new or ancestral phenotypes is seldom available. By studying
the reversibility of evolutionary changes in protein structure and function,
these limitations can be overcome. Here we show, using the evolution of hormone
specificity in the vertebrate glucocorticoid receptor as a case-study, that the
evolutionary path by which this protein acquired its new function soon became
inaccessible to reverse exploration. Using ancestral gene reconstruction, protein
engineering and X-ray crystallography, we demonstrate that five subsequent
'restrictive' mutations, which optimized the new specificity of the
glucocorticoid receptor, also destabilized elements of the protein structure that
were required to support the ancestral conformation. Unless these ratchet-like
epistatic substitutions are restored to their ancestral states, reversing the key
function-switching mutations yields a non-functional protein. Reversing the
restrictive substitutions first, however, does nothing to enhance the ancestral
function. Our findings indicate that even if selection for the ancestral function
were imposed, direct reversal would be extremely unlikely, suggesting an
important role for historical contingency in protein evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08249 
PMCID: PMC6141187
PMID: 19779450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):511-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08316.

El Niño in a changing climate.

Yeh SW(1), Kug JS, Dewitte B, Kwon MH, Kirtman BP, Jin FF.

Author information: 
(1)Climate Change and Coastal Disaster Research Department, Korea Ocean Research 
and Development Institute, 426-744, Ansan, Korea. swyeh@kordi.re.kr

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):481-4.

El Niño events, characterized by anomalous warming in the eastern equatorial
Pacific Ocean, have global climatic teleconnections and are the most dominant
feature of cyclic climate variability on subdecadal timescales. Understanding
changes in the frequency or characteristics of El Niño events in a changing
climate is therefore of broad scientific and socioeconomic interest. Recent
studies show that the canonical El Niño has become less frequent and that a
different kind of El Niño has become more common during the late twentieth
century, in which warm sea surface temperatures (SSTs) in the central Pacific are
flanked on the east and west by cooler SSTs. This type of El Niño, termed the
central Pacific El Niño (CP-El Niño; also termed the dateline El Niño, El Niño
Modoki or warm pool El Niño), differs from the canonical eastern Pacific El Niño 
(EP-El Niño) in both the location of maximum SST anomalies and
tropical-midlatitude teleconnections. Here we show changes in the ratio of CP-El 
Niño to EP-El Niño under projected global warming scenarios from the Coupled
Model Intercomparison Project phase 3 multi-model data set. Using calculations
based on historical El Niño indices, we find that projections of anthropogenic
climate change are associated with an increased frequency of the CP-El Niño
compared to the EP-El Niño. When restricted to the six climate models with the
best representation of the twentieth-century ratio of CP-El Niño to EP-El Niño,
the occurrence ratio of CP-El Niño/EP-El Niño is projected to increase as much as
five times under global warming. The change is related to a flattening of the
thermocline in the equatorial Pacific.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08316 
PMID: 19779449 


236. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):507-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08393.

Stable isotope constraints on Holocene carbon cycle changes from an Antarctic ice
core.

Elsig J(1), Schmitt J, Leuenberger D, Schneider R, Eyer M, Leuenberger M, Joos F,
Fischer H, Stocker TF.

Author information: 
(1)Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern,
Sidlerstrasse 5, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland.

Reconstructions of atmospheric CO(2) concentrations based on Antarctic ice cores 
reveal significant changes during the Holocene epoch, but the processes
responsible for these changes in CO(2) concentrations have not been unambiguously
identified. Distinct characteristics in the carbon isotope signatures of the
major carbon reservoirs (ocean, biosphere, sediments and atmosphere) constrain
variations in the CO(2) fluxes between those reservoirs. Here we present a highly
resolved atmospheric delta(13)C record for the past 11,000 years from
measurements on atmospheric CO(2) trapped in an Antarctic ice core. From
mass-balance inverse model calculations performed with a simplified carbon cycle 
model, we show that the decrease in atmospheric CO(2) of about 5 parts per
million by volume (p.p.m.v.). The increase in delta(13)C of about 0.25 per
thousand during the early Holocene is most probably the result of a combination
of carbon uptake of about 290 gigatonnes of carbon by the land biosphere and
carbon release from the ocean in response to carbonate compensation of the
terrestrial uptake during the termination of the last ice age. The 20 p.p.m.v.
increase of atmospheric CO(2) and the small decrease in delta(13)C of about 0.05 
per thousand during the later Holocene can mostly be explained by contributions
from carbonate compensation of earlier land-biosphere uptake and coral reef
formation, with only a minor contribution from a small decrease of the
land-biosphere carbon inventory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08393 
PMID: 19779448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):504-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08363.

Violation of Bell's inequality in Josephson phase qubits.

Ansmann M(1), Wang H, Bialczak RC, Hofheinz M, Lucero E, Neeley M, O'Connell AD, 
Sank D, Weides M, Wenner J, Cleland AN, Martinis JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106, USA.

The measurement process plays an awkward role in quantum mechanics, because
measurement forces a system to 'choose' between possible outcomes in a
fundamentally unpredictable manner. Therefore, hidden classical processes have
been considered as possibly predetermining measurement outcomes while preserving 
their statistical distributions. However, a quantitative measure that can
distinguish classically determined correlations from stronger quantum
correlations exists in the form of the Bell inequalities, measurements of which
provide strong experimental evidence that quantum mechanics provides a complete
description. Here we demonstrate the violation of a Bell inequality in a
solid-state system. We use a pair of Josephson phase qubits acting as spin-1/2
particles, and show that the qubits can be entangled and measured so as to
violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) version of the Bell inequality. We 
measure a Bell signal of 2.0732 +/- 0.0003, exceeding the maximum amplitude of 2 
for a classical system by 244 standard deviations. In the experiment, we
deterministically generate the entangled state, and measure both qubits in a
single-shot manner, closing the detection loophole. Because the Bell inequality
was designed to test for non-classical behaviour without assuming the
applicability of quantum mechanics to the system in question, this experiment
provides further strong evidence that a macroscopic electrical circuit is really 
a quantum system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08363 
PMID: 19779447 


238. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):501-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08307.

Seismic evidence for the loss of stellar angular momentum before the white-dwarf 
stage.

Charpinet S(1), Fontaine G, Brassard P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Toulouse-Tarbes, Université de Toulouse, CNRS, 
14 avenue E. Belin, 31400 Toulouse, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):485-6.

White-dwarf stars represent the final products of the evolution of some 95% of
all stars. If stars were to keep their angular momentum throughout their
evolution, their white-dwarf descendants, owing to their compact nature, should
all rotate relatively rapidly, with typical periods of the order of a few
seconds. Observations of their photospheres show, in contrast, that they rotate
much more slowly, with periods ranging from hours to tens of years. It is not
known, however, whether a white dwarf could 'hide' some of its original angular
momentum below the superficial layers, perhaps spinning much more rapidly inside 
than at its surface. Here we report a determination of the internal rotation
profile of a white dwarf using a method based on asteroseismology. We show that
the pulsating white dwarf PG 1159-035 rotates as a solid body (encompassing more 
than 97.5% of its mass) with the relatively long period of 33.61 +/- 0.59 h. This
implies that it has lost essentially all of its angular momentum, thus favouring 
theories which suggest important angular momentum transfer and loss in
evolutionary phases before the white-dwarf stage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08307 
PMID: 19779446 


239. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):489-94. doi: 10.1038/nature08365.

Reconstructing Indian population history.

Reich D(1), Thangaraj K, Patterson N, Price AL, Singh L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA. reich@genetics.med.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):487-8.

India has been underrepresented in genome-wide surveys of human variation. We
analyse 25 diverse groups in India to provide strong evidence for two ancient
populations, genetically divergent, that are ancestral to most Indians today.
One, the 'Ancestral North Indians' (ANI), is genetically close to Middle
Easterners, Central Asians, and Europeans, whereas the other, the 'Ancestral
South Indians' (ASI), is as distinct from ANI and East Asians as they are from
each other. By introducing methods that can estimate ancestry without accurate
ancestral populations, we show that ANI ancestry ranges from 39-71% in most
Indian groups, and is higher in traditionally upper caste and Indo-European
speakers. Groups with only ASI ancestry may no longer exist in mainland India.
However, the indigenous Andaman Islanders are unique in being ASI-related groups 
without ANI ancestry. Allele frequency differences between groups in India are
larger than in Europe, reflecting strong founder effects whose signatures have
been maintained for thousands of years owing to endogamy. We therefore predict
that there will be an excess of recessive diseases in India, which should be
possible to screen and map genetically.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08365 
PMCID: PMC2842210
PMID: 19779445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08362. Epub 2009 Sep 16.

Integration of neuronal clones in the radial cortical columns by EphA and
ephrin-A signalling.

Torii M(1), Hashimoto-Torii K, Levitt P, Rakic P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale
University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06510,
USA. masaaki.torii@yale.edu

The cerebral cortex is a laminated sheet of neurons composed of the arrays of
intersecting radial columns. During development, excitatory projection neurons
originating from the proliferative units at the ventricular surface of the
embryonic cerebral vesicles migrate along elongated radial glial fibres to form a
cellular infrastructure of radial (vertical) ontogenetic columns in the
overlaying cortical plate. However, a subpopulation of these clonally related
neurons also undergoes a short lateral shift and transfers from their parental to
the neighbouring radial glial fibres, and intermixes with neurons originating
from neighbouring proliferative units. This columnar organization acts as the
primary information processing unit in the cortex. The molecular mechanisms, role
and significance of this lateral dispersion for cortical development are not
understood. Here we show that an Eph receptor A (EphA) and ephrin A (Efna)
signalling-dependent shift in the allocation of clonally related neurons is
essential for the proper assembly of cortical columns. In contrast to the
relatively uniform labelling of the developing cortical plate by various
molecular markers and retrograde tracers in wild-type mice, we found alternating 
labelling of columnar compartments in Efna knockout mice that are caused by
impaired lateral dispersion of migrating neurons rather than by altered cell
production or death. Furthermore, in utero electroporation showed that lateral
dispersion depends on the expression levels of EphAs and ephrin-As during
neuronal migration. This so far unrecognized mechanism for lateral neuronal
dispersion seems to be essential for the proper intermixing of neuronal types in 
the cortical columns, which, when disrupted, might contribute to neuropsychiatric
disorders associated with abnormal columnar organization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08362 
PMCID: PMC2874978
PMID: 19759535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):529-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08289. Epub 2009 Sep 9.

Asymptomatic deer excrete infectious prions in faeces.

Tamgüney G(1), Miller MW, Wolfe LL, Sirochman TM, Glidden DV, Palmer C, Lemus A, 
DeArmond SJ, Prusiner SB.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94143 USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jul 29;466(7306):652. Dosage error in article text.

Infectious prion diseases-scrapie of sheep and chronic wasting disease (CWD) of
several species in the deer family-are transmitted naturally within affected host
populations. Although several possible sources of contagion have been identified 
in excretions and secretions from symptomatic animals, the biological importance 
of these sources in sustaining epidemics remains unclear. Here we show that
asymptomatic CWD-infected mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) excrete CWD prions in
their faeces long before they develop clinical signs of prion disease.
Intracerebral inoculation of irradiated deer faeces into transgenic mice
overexpressing cervid prion protein (PrP) revealed infectivity in 14 of 15 faecal
samples collected from five deer at 7-11 months before the onset of neurological 
disease. Although prion concentrations in deer faeces were considerably lower
than in brain tissue from the same deer collected at the end of the disease, the 
estimated total infectious dose excreted in faeces by an infected deer over the
disease course may approximate the total contained in a brain. Prolonged faecal
prion excretion by infected deer provides a plausible natural mechanism that
might explain the high incidence and efficient horizontal transmission of CWD
within deer herds, as well as prion transmission among other susceptible cervids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08289 
PMCID: PMC3186440
PMID: 19741608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):495-500. doi: 10.1038/nature08361. Epub 2009 Sep 9.

A luminal epithelial stem cell that is a cell of origin for prostate cancer.

Wang X(1), Kruithof-de Julio M, Economides KD, Walker D, Yu H, Halili MV, Hu YP, 
Price SM, Abate-Shen C, Shen MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032, USA.

In epithelial tissues, the lineage relationship between normal progenitor cells
and cell type(s) of origin for cancer has been poorly understood. Here we show
that a known regulator of prostate epithelial differentiation, the homeobox gene 
Nkx3-1, marks a stem cell population that functions during prostate regeneration.
Genetic lineage-marking demonstrates that rare luminal cells that express Nkx3-1 
in the absence of testicular androgens (castration-resistant Nkx3-1-expressing
cells, CARNs) are bipotential and can self-renew in vivo, and single-cell
transplantation assays show that CARNs can reconstitute prostate ducts in renal
grafts. Functional assays of Nkx3-1 mutant mice in serial prostate regeneration
suggest that Nkx3-1 is required for stem cell maintenance. Furthermore, targeted 
deletion of the Pten tumour suppressor gene in CARNs results in rapid carcinoma
formation after androgen-mediated regeneration. These observations indicate that 
CARNs represent a new luminal stem cell population that is an efficient target
for oncogenic transformation in prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08361 
PMCID: PMC2800362
PMID: 19741607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):533-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08391. Epub 2009 Sep 9.

Fgf8 morphogen gradient forms by a source-sink mechanism with freely diffusing
molecules.

Yu SR(1), Burkhardt M, Nowak M, Ries J, Petrásek Z, Scholpp S, Schwille P, Brand 
M.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Genetics, Biotechnology Center, TUD, Tatzberg 47-49, 01307
Dresden, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):480-1.

It is widely accepted that tissue differentiation and morphogenesis in
multicellular organisms are regulated by tightly controlled concentration
gradients of morphogens. How exactly these gradients are formed, however, remains
unclear. Here we show that Fgf8 morphogen gradients in living zebrafish embryos
are established and maintained by two essential factors: fast, free diffusion of 
single molecules away from the source through extracellular space, and a sink
function of the receiving cells, regulated by receptor-mediated endocytosis.
Evidence is provided by directly examining single molecules of Fgf8 in living
tissue by fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, quantifying their local mobility
and concentration with high precision. By changing the degree of uptake of Fgf8
into its target cells, we are able to alter the shape of the Fgf8 gradient. Our
results demonstrate that a freely diffusing morphogen can set up concentration
gradients in a complex multicellular tissue by a simple source-sink mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08391 
PMID: 19741606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):546-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08349. Epub 2009 Sep 6.

Active turnover modulates mature microRNA activity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Chatterjee S(1), Grosshans H.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, PO Box 2543, CH-4002
Basel, Switzerland.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) constitute a large class of regulatory RNAs that repress
target messenger RNAs to control various biological processes. Accordingly, miRNA
biogenesis is highly regulated, controlled at both transcriptional and
post-transcriptional levels, and overexpression and underexpression of miRNAs are
linked to various human diseases, particularly cancers. As RNA concentrations are
generally a function of biogenesis and turnover, active miRNA degradation might
also modulate miRNA accumulation, and the plant 3'-->5' exonuclease SDN1 has been
implicated in miRNA turnover. Here we report that degradation of mature miRNAs in
the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, mediated by the 5'-->3' exoribonuclease
XRN-2, affects functional miRNA homeostasis in vivo. We recapitulate
XRN-2-dependent miRNA turnover in larval lysates, where processing of
precursor-miRNA (pre-miRNA) by Dicer, unannealing of the miRNA duplex and loading
of the mature miRNA into the Argonaute protein of the miRNA-induced silencing
complex (miRISC) are coupled processes that precede degradation of the mature
miRNA. Although Argonaute:miRNA complexes are highly resistant to salt, larval
lysate promotes efficient release of the miRNA, exposing it to degradation by
XRN-2. Release and degradation can both be blocked by the addition of miRNA
target RNA. Our results therefore suggest the presence of an additional layer of 
regulation of animal miRNA activity that might be important for rapid changes of 
miRNA expression profiles during developmental transitions and for the
maintenance of steady-state concentrations of miRNAs. This pathway might
represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention on miRNA expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08349 
PMID: 19734881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):537-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08313. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

Reactive oxygen species prime Drosophila haematopoietic progenitors for
differentiation.

Owusu-Ansah E(1), Banerjee U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):486-7.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS), produced during various electron transfer
reactions in vivo, are generally considered to be deleterious to cells. In the
mammalian haematopoietic system, haematopoietic stem cells contain low levels of 
ROS. However, unexpectedly, the common myeloid progenitors (CMPs) produce
significantly increased levels of ROS(2). The functional significance of this
difference in ROS level in the two progenitor types remains unresolved. Here we
show that Drosophila multipotent haematopoietic progenitors, which are largely
akin to the mammalian myeloid progenitors, display increased levels of ROS under 
in vivo physiological conditions, which are downregulated on differentiation.
Scavenging the ROS from these haematopoietic progenitors by using in vivo genetic
tools retards their differentiation into mature blood cells. Conversely,
increasing the haematopoietic progenitor ROS beyond their basal level triggers
precocious differentiation into all three mature blood cell types found in
Drosophila, through a signalling pathway that involves JNK and FoxO activation as
well as Polycomb downregulation. We conclude that the developmentally regulated, 
moderately high ROS level in the progenitor population sensitizes them to
differentiation, and establishes a signalling role for ROS in the regulation of
haematopoietic cell fate. Our results lead to a model that could be extended to
reveal a probable signalling role for ROS in the differentiation of CMPs in
mammalian haematopoietic development and oxidative stress response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08313 
PMCID: PMC4380287
PMID: 19727075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):542-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08314. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

A dimerization-dependent mechanism drives RAF catalytic activation.

Rajakulendran T(1), Sahmi M, Lefrançois M, Sicheri F, Therrien M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Systems Biology, Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada.

The ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) pathway is an evolutionarily
conserved signal transduction module that controls cellular growth,
differentiation and survival. Activation of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) by
the binding of growth factors initiates GTP loading of RAS, which triggers the
initial steps in the activation of the ERK pathway by modulating RAF family
kinase function. Once activated, RAF participates in a sequential cascade of
phosphorylation events that activate MEK, and in turn ERK. Unbridled signalling
through the ERK pathway caused by activating mutations in RTKs, RAS or RAF has
been linked to several human cancers. Of note, one member of the RAF family,
BRAF, is the most frequently mutated oncogene in the kinase superfamily. Not
surprisingly, there has been a colossal effort to understand the underlying
regulation of this family of kinases. In particular, the process by which the RAF
kinase domain becomes activated towards its substrate MEK remains of topical
interest. Here, using Drosophila Schneider S2 cells, we demonstrate that RAF
catalytic function is regulated in response to a specific mode of dimerization of
its kinase domain, which we term the side-to-side dimer. Moreover, we find that
the RAF-related pseudo-kinase KSR (kinase suppressor of Ras) also participates in
forming side-to-side heterodimers with RAF and can thereby trigger RAF
activation. This mechanism provides an elegant explanation for the longstanding
conundrum about RAF catalytic activation, and also provides an explanation for
the capacity of KSR, despite lacking catalytic function, to directly mediate RAF 
activation. We also show that RAF side-to-side dimer formation is essential for
aberrant signalling by oncogenic BRAF mutants, and identify an oncogenic mutation
that acts specifically by promoting side-to-side dimerization. Together, our data
identify the side-to-side dimer interface of RAF as a potential therapeutic
target for intervention in BRAF-dependent tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08314 
PMID: 19727074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):520-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08282. Epub 2009 Aug 26.

Population context determines cell-to-cell variability in endocytosis and virus
infection.

Snijder B(1), Sacher R, Rämö P, Damm EM, Liberali P, Pelkmans L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich (Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology), Wolfgang Pauli-Strasse 16, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Single-cell heterogeneity in cell populations arises from a combination of
intrinsic and extrinsic factors. This heterogeneity has been measured for gene
transcription, phosphorylation, cell morphology and drug perturbations, and used 
to explain various aspects of cellular physiology. In all cases, however, the
causes of heterogeneity were not studied. Here we analyse, for the first time,
the heterogeneous patterns of related cellular activities, namely virus
infection, endocytosis and membrane lipid composition in adherent human cells. We
reveal correlations with specific cellular states that are defined by the
population context of a cell, and we derive probabilistic models that can explain
and predict most cellular heterogeneity of these activities, solely on the basis 
of each cell's population context. We find that accounting for
population-determined heterogeneity is essential for interpreting differences
between the activity levels of cell populations. Finally, we reveal that synergy 
between two molecular components, focal adhesion kinase and the sphingolipid GM1,
enhances the population-determined pattern of simian virus 40 (SV40) infection.
Our findings provide an explanation for the origin of heterogeneity patterns of
cellular activities in adherent cell populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08282 
PMID: 19710653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):407-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08323.

Optogenetic dissection of a behavioural module in the vertebrate spinal cord.

Wyart C(1), Del Bene F, Warp E, Scott EK, Trauner D, Baier H, Isacoff EY.

Author information: 
(1)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute and Department of Molecular and Cell
Biology, University of California in Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Locomotion relies on neural networks called central pattern generators (CPGs)
that generate periodic motor commands for rhythmic movements. In vertebrates, the
excitatory synaptic drive for inducing the spinal CPG can originate from either
supraspinal glutamatergic inputs or from within the spinal cord. Here we identify
a spinal input to the CPG that drives spontaneous locomotion using a combination 
of intersectional gene expression and optogenetics in zebrafish larvae. The
photo-stimulation of one specific cell type was sufficient to induce a
symmetrical tail beating sequence that mimics spontaneous slow forward swimming. 
This neuron is the Kolmer-Agduhr cell, which extends cilia into the central
cerebrospinal-fluid-containing canal of the spinal cord and has an ipsilateral
ascending axon that terminates in a series of consecutive segments. Genetically
silencing Kolmer-Agduhr cells reduced the frequency of spontaneous free swimming,
indicating that activity of Kolmer-Agduhr cells provides necessary tone for
spontaneous forward swimming. Kolmer-Agduhr cells have been known for over 75
years, but their function has been mysterious. Our results reveal that during
early development in zebrafish these cells provide a positive drive to the spinal
CPG for spontaneous locomotion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08323 
PMCID: PMC2770190
PMID: 19759620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):389-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08350.

Genotypic sex determination enabled adaptive radiations of extinct marine
reptiles.

Organ CL(1), Janes DE, Meade A, Pagel M.

Author information: 
(1)Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University, 26 Oxford Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. corgan@oeb.harvard.edu

Adaptive radiations often follow the evolution of key traits, such as the origin 
of the amniotic egg and the subsequent radiation of terrestrial vertebrates. The 
mechanism by which a species determines the sex of its offspring has been linked 
to critical ecological and life-history traits but not to major adaptive
radiations, in part because sex-determining mechanisms do not fossilize. Here we 
establish a previously unknown coevolutionary relationship in 94 amniote species 
between sex-determining mechanism and whether a species bears live young or lays 
eggs. We use that relationship to predict the sex-determining mechanism in three 
independent lineages of extinct Mesozoic marine reptiles (mosasaurs,
sauropterygians and ichthyosaurs), each of which is known from fossils to have
evolved live birth. Our results indicate that each lineage evolved genotypic sex 
determination before acquiring live birth. This enabled their pelagic radiations,
where the relatively stable temperatures of the open ocean constrain
temperature-dependent sex determination in amniote species. Freed from the need
to move and nest on land, extreme physical adaptations to a pelagic lifestyle
evolved in each group, such as the fluked tails, dorsal fins and wing-shaped
limbs of ichthyosaurs. With the inclusion of ichthyosaurs, mosasaurs and
sauropterygians, genotypic sex determination is present in all known fully
pelagic amniote groups (sea snakes, sirenians and cetaceans), suggesting that
this mode of sex determination and the subsequent evolution of live birth are key
traits required for marine adaptive radiations in amniote lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08350 
PMID: 19759619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):385-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08355.

Holocene thinning of the Greenland ice sheet.

Vinther BM(1), Buchardt SL, Clausen HB, Dahl-Jensen D, Johnsen SJ, Fisher DA,
Koerner RM, Raynaud D, Lipenkov V, Andersen KK, Blunier T, Rasmussen SO,
Steffensen JP, Svensson AM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ice and Climate, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen,
Juliane Maries Vej 30, DK-2100 Copenhagen Oe, Denmark. bo@gfy.ku.dk

On entering an era of global warming, the stability of the Greenland ice sheet
(GIS) is an important concern, especially in the light of new evidence of rapidly
changing flow and melt conditions at the GIS margins. Studying the response of
the GIS to past climatic change may help to advance our understanding of GIS
dynamics. The previous interpretation of evidence from stable isotopes
(delta(18)O) in water from GIS ice cores was that Holocene climate variability on
the GIS differed spatially and that a consistent Holocene climate optimum-the
unusually warm period from about 9,000 to 6,000 years ago found in many
northern-latitude palaeoclimate records-did not exist. Here we extract both the
Greenland Holocene temperature history and the evolution of GIS surface elevation
at four GIS locations. We achieve this by comparing delta(18)O from GIS ice cores
with delta(18)O from ice cores from small marginal icecaps. Contrary to the
earlier interpretation of delta(18)O evidence from ice cores, our new temperature
history reveals a pronounced Holocene climatic optimum in Greenland coinciding
with maximum thinning near the GIS margins. Our delta(18)O-based results are
corroborated by the air content of ice cores, a proxy for surface elevation.
State-of-the-art ice sheet models are generally found to be underestimating the
extent and changes in GIS elevation and area; our findings may help to improve
the ability of models to reproduce the GIS response to Holocene climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08355 
PMID: 19759618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):381-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08292.

New particle formation in forests inhibited by isoprene emissions.

Kiendler-Scharr A(1), Wildt J, Dal Maso M, Hohaus T, Kleist E, Mentel TF,
Tillmann R, Uerlings R, Schurr U, Wahner A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut ICG-2, Troposphäre. a.kiendler-scharr@fz-juelich.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):353-4.

It has been suggested that volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are involved in
organic aerosol formation, which in turn affects radiative forcing and climate.
The most abundant VOCs emitted by terrestrial vegetation are isoprene and its
derivatives, such as monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes. New particle formation in
boreal regions is related to monoterpene emissions and causes an estimated
negative radiative forcing of about -0.2 to -0.9 W m(-2). The annual variation in
aerosol growth rates during particle nucleation events correlates with the
seasonality of monoterpene emissions of the local vegetation, with a maximum
during summer. The frequency of nucleation events peaks, however, in spring and
autumn. Here we present evidence from simulation experiments conducted in a plant
chamber that isoprene can significantly inhibit new particle formation. The
process leading to the observed decrease in particle number concentration is
linked to the high reactivity of isoprene with the hydroxyl radical (OH). The
suppression is stronger with higher concentrations of isoprene, but with little
dependence on the specific VOC mixture emitted by trees. A parameterization of
the observed suppression factor as a function of isoprene concentration suggests 
that the number of new particles produced depends on the OH concentration and
VOCs involved in the production of new particles undergo three to four steps of
oxidation by OH. Our measurements simulate conditions that are typical for
forested regions and may explain the observed seasonality in the frequency of
aerosol nucleation events, with a lower number of nucleation events during summer
compared to autumn and spring. Biogenic emissions of isoprene are controlled by
temperature and light, and if the relative isoprene abundance of biogenic VOC
emissions increases in response to climate change or land use change, the new
particle formation potential may decrease, thus damping the aerosol negative
radiative forcing effect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08292 
PMID: 19759617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):377-80. doi: 10.1038/nature08294.

Non-coalescence of oppositely charged drops.

Ristenpart WD(1), Bird JC, Belmonte A, Dollar F, Stone HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of
California at Davis, 1 Shields Drive, Davis, California 95616, USA.
wdristenpart@ucdavis.edu

Electric fields induce motion in many fluid systems, including polymer melts,
surfactant micelles and colloidal suspensions. Likewise, electric fields can be
used to move liquid drops. Electrically induced droplet motion manifests itself
in processes as diverse as storm cloud formation, commercial ink-jet printing,
petroleum and vegetable oil dehydration, electrospray ionization for use in mass 
spectrometry, electrowetting and lab-on-a-chip manipulations. An important issue 
in practical applications is the tendency for adjacent drops to coalesce, and
oppositely charged drops have long been assumed to experience an attractive force
that favours their coalescence. Here we report the existence of a critical field 
strength above which oppositely charged drops do not coalesce. We observe that
appropriately positioned and oppositely charged drops migrate towards one another
in an applied electric field; but whereas the drops coalesce as expected at low
field strengths, they are repelled from one another after contact at higher field
strengths. Qualitatively, the drops appear to 'bounce' off one another. We
directly image the transient formation of a meniscus bridge between the bouncing 
drops, and propose that this temporary bridge is unstable with respect to
capillary pressure when it forms in an electric field exceeding a critical
strength. The observation of oppositely charged drops bouncing rather than
coalescing in strong electric fields should affect our understanding of any
process involving charged liquid drops, including de-emulsification, electrospray
ionization and atmospheric conduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08294 
PMID: 19759616 


253. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):373-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08408.

Misaligned spin and orbital axes cause the anomalous precession of DI Herculis.

Albrecht S(1), Reffert S, Snellen IA, Winn JN.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands. albrecht@space.mit.edu

The orbits of binary stars precess as a result of general relativistic effects,
forces arising from the asphericity of the stars, and forces from any additional 
stars or planets in the system. For most binaries, the theoretical and observed
precession rates are in agreement. One system, however-DI Herculis-has resisted
explanation for 30 years. The observed precession rate is a factor of four slower
than the theoretical rate, a disagreement that once was interpreted as evidence
for a failure of general relativity. Among the contemporary explanations are the 
existence of a circumbinary planet and a large tilt of the stellar spin axes with
respect to the orbit. Here we report that both stars of DI Herculis rotate with
their spin axes nearly perpendicular to the orbital axis (contrary to the usual
assumption for close binary stars). The rotationally induced stellar oblateness
causes precession in the direction opposite to that of relativistic precession,
thereby reconciling the theoretical and observed rates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08408 
PMID: 19759615 


254. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):E4; discussion E5. doi: 10.1038/nature08254.

VEGFR1-activity-independent metastasis formation.

Dawson MR(1), Duda DG, Fukumura D, Jain RK.

Author information: 
(1)Steele Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2005 Dec 8;438(7069):820-7.

Molecules such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) or placental growth
factor-critical regulators of tumour angiogenesis-are also thought to mobilize
into blood circulation bone marrow-derived cells (BMDCs), which may subsequently 
be recruited to tumours and facilitate tumour growth and metastasis. A study has 
suggested that BMDCs form 'metastatic niches' in lungs before arrival of cancer
cells, and showed that pharmacological inhibition of VEGF receptor 1 (VEGFR1,
also known as Flt1)-cognate receptor for VEGF and placental growth
factor-prevented BMDC infiltration in lungs and 'metastatic niche' formation.
Here we report that blockade of VEGFR1 activity does not affect the rate of
spontaneous metastasis formation in a clinically relevant and widely used
preclinical model. Therefore, alternative pathways probably mediate the priming
of tissues for metastasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08254 
PMCID: PMC3065241
PMID: 19759568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):393-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08358. Epub 2009 Sep 9.

Genome sequence and analysis of the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora
infestans.

Haas BJ(1), Kamoun S, Zody MC, Jiang RH, Handsaker RE, Cano LM, Grabherr M,
Kodira CD, Raffaele S, Torto-Alalibo T, Bozkurt TO, Ah-Fong AM, Alvarado L,
Anderson VL, Armstrong MR, Avrova A, Baxter L, Beynon J, Boevink PC, Bollmann SR,
Bos JI, Bulone V, Cai G, Cakir C, Carrington JC, Chawner M, Conti L, Costanzo S, 
Ewan R, Fahlgren N, Fischbach MA, Fugelstad J, Gilroy EM, Gnerre S, Green PJ,
Grenville-Briggs LJ, Griffith J, Grünwald NJ, Horn K, Horner NR, Hu CH, Huitema
E, Jeong DH, Jones AM, Jones JD, Jones RW, Karlsson EK, Kunjeti SG, Lamour K, Liu
Z, Ma L, Maclean D, Chibucos MC, McDonald H, McWalters J, Meijer HJ, Morgan W,
Morris PF, Munro CA, O'Neill K, Ospina-Giraldo M, Pinzón A, Pritchard L,
Ramsahoye B, Ren Q, Restrepo S, Roy S, Sadanandom A, Savidor A, Schornack S,
Schwartz DC, Schumann UD, Schwessinger B, Seyer L, Sharpe T, Silvar C, Song J,
Studholme DJ, Sykes S, Thines M, van de Vondervoort PJ, Phuntumart V, Wawra S,
Weide R, Win J, Young C, Zhou S, Fry W, Meyers BC, van West P, Ristaino J, Govers
F, Birch PR, Whisson SC, Judelson HS, Nusbaum C.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA.

Phytophthora infestans is the most destructive pathogen of potato and a model
organism for the oomycetes, a distinct lineage of fungus-like eukaryotes that are
related to organisms such as brown algae and diatoms. As the agent of the Irish
potato famine in the mid-nineteenth century, P. infestans has had a tremendous
effect on human history, resulting in famine and population displacement. To this
day, it affects world agriculture by causing the most destructive disease of
potato, the fourth largest food crop and a critical alternative to the major
cereal crops for feeding the world's population. Current annual worldwide potato 
crop losses due to late blight are conservatively estimated at $6.7 billion.
Management of this devastating pathogen is challenged by its remarkable speed of 
adaptation to control strategies such as genetically resistant cultivars. Here we
report the sequence of the P. infestans genome, which at approximately 240
megabases (Mb) is by far the largest and most complex genome sequenced so far in 
the chromalveolates. Its expansion results from a proliferation of repetitive DNA
accounting for approximately 74% of the genome. Comparison with two other
Phytophthora genomes showed rapid turnover and extensive expansion of specific
families of secreted disease effector proteins, including many genes that are
induced during infection or are predicted to have activities that alter host
physiology. These fast-evolving effector genes are localized to highly dynamic
and expanded regions of the P. infestans genome. This probably plays a crucial
part in the rapid adaptability of the pathogen to host plants and underpins its
evolutionary potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08358 
PMID: 19741609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):427-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08328. Epub 2009 Sep 6.

Selective epigenetic control of retrotransposition in Arabidopsis.

Mirouze M(1), Reinders J, Bucher E, Nishimura T, Schneeberger K, Ossowski S, Cao 
J, Weigel D, Paszkowski J, Mathieu O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Geneva, Sciences III, 30 Quai
Ernest-Ansermet, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Retrotransposons are mobile genetic elements that populate chromosomes, where the
host largely controls their activities. In plants and mammals, retrotransposons
are transcriptionally silenced by DNA methylation, which in Arabidopsis is
propagated at CG dinucleotides by METHYLTRANSFERASE 1 (MET1). In met1 mutants,
however, mobilization of retrotransposons is not observed, despite their
transcriptional activation. A post-transcriptional mechanism therefore seems to
be preventing retrotransposition. Here we show that a copia-type retrotransposon 
(Evadé, French for 'fugitive') evaded suppression of its movement during
inbreeding of hybrid epigenomes consisting of met1- and wild-type-derived
chromosomes. Evadé (EVD) reinsertions caused a series of developmental mutations 
that allowed its identification. Genetic testing of host control of the EVD life 
cycle showed that transcriptional suppression occurred by CG methylation
supported by RNA-directed DNA methylation. On transcriptional reactivation,
subsequent steps of the EVD cycle were inhibited by plant-specific RNA polymerase
IV/V and the histone methyltransferase KRYPTONITE (KYP). Moreover, genome
resequencing demonstrated retrotransposition of EVD but no other potentially
active retroelements when this combination of epigenetic mechanisms was
compromised. Our results demonstrate that epigenetic control of retrotransposons 
extends beyond transcriptional suppression and can be individualized for
particular elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08328 
PMID: 19734882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):423-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08351. Epub 2009 Sep 6.

Bursts of retrotransposition reproduced in Arabidopsis.

Tsukahara S(1), Kobayashi A, Kawabe A, Mathieu O, Miura A, Kakutani T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrated Genetics, National Institute of Genetics, Yata 1111, 
Mishima, Shizuoka 411-8540, Japan.

Retrotransposons, which proliferate by reverse transcription of RNA
intermediates, comprise a major portion of plant genomes. Plants often change the
genome size and organization during evolution by rapid proliferation and deletion
of long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons. Precise transposon sequences
throughout the Arabidopsis thaliana genome and the trans-acting mutations
affecting epigenetic states make it an ideal model organism with which to study
transposon dynamics. Here we report the mobilization of various families of
endogenous A. thaliana LTR retrotransposons identified through genetic and
genomic approaches with high-resolution genomic tiling arrays and mutants in the 
chromatin-remodelling gene DDM1 (DECREASE IN DNA METHYLATION 1). Using multiple
lines of self-pollinated ddm1 mutant, we detected an increase in copy number, and
verified this for various retrotransposons in a gypsy family (ATGP3) and copia
families (ATCOPIA13, ATCOPIA21, ATCOPIA93), and also for a DNA transposon of a
Mutator family, VANDAL21. A burst of retrotransposition occurred stochastically
and independently for each element, suggesting an additional autocatalytic
process. Furthermore, comparison of the identified LTR retrotransposons in
related Arabidopsis species revealed that a lineage-specific burst of
retrotransposition of these elements did indeed occur in natural Arabidopsis
populations. The recent burst of retrotransposition in natural population is
targeted to centromeric repeats, which is presumably less harmful than insertion 
into genes. The ddm1-induced retrotransposon proliferations and genome
rearrangements mimic the transposon-mediated genome dynamics during evolution and
provide experimental systems with which to investigate the controlling molecular 
factors directly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08351 
PMID: 19734880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):411-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08279. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

Response and resistance to MEK inhibition in leukaemias initiated by hyperactive 
Ras.

Lauchle JO(1), Kim D, Le DT, Akagi K, Crone M, Krisman K, Warner K, Bonifas JM,
Li Q, Coakley KM, Diaz-Flores E, Gorman M, Przybranowski S, Tran M, Kogan SC,
Roose JP, Copeland NG, Jenkins NA, Parada L, Wolff L, Sebolt-Leopold J, Shannon
K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco, California 
94143, USA.

The cascade comprising Raf, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) and
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is a therapeutic target in human
cancers with deregulated Ras signalling, which includes tumours that have
inactivated the Nf1 tumour suppressor. Nf1 encodes neurofibromin, a
GTPase-activating protein that terminates Ras signalling by stimulating
hydrolysis of Ras-GTP. We compared the effects of inhibitors of MEK in a
myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) initiated by inactivating Nf1 in mouse bone
marrow and in acute myeloid leukaemias (AMLs) in which cooperating mutations were
induced by retroviral insertional mutagenesis. Here we show that MEK inhibitors
are ineffective in MPD, but induce objective regression of many Nf1-deficient
AMLs. Drug resistance developed because of outgrowth of AML clones that were
present before treatment. We cloned clone-specific retroviral integrations to
identify candidate resistance genes including Rasgrp1, Rasgrp4 and Mapk14, which 
encodes p38alpha. Functional analysis implicated increased RasGRP1 levels and
reduced p38 kinase activity in resistance to MEK inhibitors. This approach
represents a robust strategy for identifying genes and pathways that modulate how
primary cancer cells respond to targeted therapeutics and for probing mechanisms 
of de novo and acquired resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08279 
PMCID: PMC4119783
PMID: 19727076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):415-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08315. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

KDM1B is a histone H3K4 demethylase required to establish maternal genomic
imprints.

Ciccone DN(1), Su H, Hevi S, Gay F, Lei H, Bajko J, Xu G, Li E, Chen T.

Author information: 
(1)Epigenetics Program, Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, 250
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):359-60.

Differential DNA methylation of the paternal and maternal alleles regulates the
parental origin-specific expression of imprinted genes in mammals. The
methylation imprints are established in male and female germ cells during
gametogenesis, and the de novo DNA methyltransferase DNMT3A and its cofactor
DNMT3L are required in this process. However, the mechanisms underlying locus-
and parental-specific targeting of the de novo DNA methylation machinery in
germline imprinting are poorly understood. Here we show that amine oxidase
(flavin-containing) domain 1 (AOF1), a protein related to the lysine demethylase 
KDM1 (also known as LSD1), functions as a histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) demethylase 
and is required for de novo DNA methylation of some imprinted genes in oocytes.
AOF1, now renamed lysine demethylase 1B (KDM1B) following a new nomenclature, is 
highly expressed in growing oocytes where genomic imprints are established.
Targeted disruption of the gene encoding KDM1B had no effect on mouse development
and oogenesis. However, oocytes from KDM1B-deficient females showed a substantial
increase in H3K4 methylation and failed to set up the DNA methylation marks at
four out of seven imprinted genes examined. Embryos derived from these oocytes
showed biallelic expression or biallelic suppression of the affected genes and
died before mid-gestation. Our results suggest that demethylation of H3K4 is
critical for establishing the DNA methylation imprints during oogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08315 
PMID: 19727073  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):367-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08368. Epub 2009 Aug 26.

Mitochondrial gene replacement in primate offspring and embryonic stem cells.

Tachibana M(1), Sparman M, Sritanaudomchai H, Ma H, Clepper L, Woodward J, Li Y, 
Ramsey C, Kolotushkina O, Mitalipov S.

Author information: 
(1)Oregon National Primate Research Center, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Dec;516(7530):276.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):354-5.

Mitochondria are found in all eukaryotic cells and contain their own genome
(mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). Unlike the nuclear genome, which is derived from
both the egg and sperm at fertilization, the mtDNA in the embryo is derived
almost exclusively from the egg; that is, it is of maternal origin. Mutations in 
mtDNA contribute to a diverse range of currently incurable human diseases and
disorders. To establish preclinical models for new therapeutic approaches, we
demonstrate here that the mitochondrial genome can be efficiently replaced in
mature non-human primate oocytes (Macaca mulatta) by spindle-chromosomal complex 
transfer from one egg to an enucleated, mitochondrial-replete egg. The
reconstructed oocytes with the mitochondrial replacement were capable of
supporting normal fertilization, embryo development and produced healthy
offspring. Genetic analysis confirmed that nuclear DNA in the three infants born 
so far originated from the spindle donors whereas mtDNA came from the cytoplast
donors. No contribution of spindle donor mtDNA was detected in offspring. Spindle
replacement is shown here as an efficient protocol replacing the full complement 
of mitochondria in newly generated embryonic stem cell lines. This approach may
offer a reproductive option to prevent mtDNA disease transmission in affected
families.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08368 
PMCID: PMC2774772
PMID: 19710649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):402-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08320. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

Modelling pathogenesis and treatment of familial dysautonomia using
patient-specific iPSCs.

Lee G(1), Papapetrou EP, Kim H, Chambers SM, Tomishima MJ, Fasano CA, Ganat YM,
Menon J, Shimizu F, Viale A, Tabar V, Sadelain M, Studer L.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, 1275 York Ave, USA.

The isolation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) offers a new
strategy for modelling human disease. Recent studies have reported the derivation
and differentiation of disease-specific human iPSCs. However, a key challenge in 
the field is the demonstration of disease-related phenotypes and the ability to
model pathogenesis and treatment of disease in iPSCs. Familial dysautonomia (FD) 
is a rare but fatal peripheral neuropathy, caused by a point mutation in the
IKBKAP gene involved in transcriptional elongation. The disease is characterized 
by the depletion of autonomic and sensory neurons. The specificity to the
peripheral nervous system and the mechanism of neuron loss in FD are poorly
understood owing to the lack of an appropriate model system. Here we report the
derivation of patient-specific FD-iPSCs and the directed differentiation into
cells of all three germ layers including peripheral neurons. Gene expression
analysis in purified FD-iPSC-derived lineages demonstrates tissue-specific
mis-splicing of IKBKAP in vitro. Patient-specific neural crest precursors express
particularly low levels of normal IKBKAP transcript, suggesting a mechanism for
disease specificity. FD pathogenesis is further characterized by transcriptome
analysis and cell-based assays revealing marked defects in neurogenic
differentiation and migration behaviour. Furthermore, we use FD-iPSCs for
validating the potency of candidate drugs in reversing aberrant splicing and
ameliorating neuronal differentiation and migration. Our study illustrates the
promise of iPSC technology for gaining new insights into human disease
pathogenesis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08320 
PMCID: PMC2784695
PMID: 19693009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08321. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

Histone H2A.Z cooperates with RNAi and heterochromatin factors to suppress
antisense RNAs.

Zofall M(1), Fischer T, Zhang K, Zhou M, Cui B, Veenstra TD, Grewal SI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Eukaryotic transcriptomes are characterized by widespread transcription of
noncoding and antisense RNAs, which is linked to key chromosomal processes, such 
as chromatin remodelling, gene regulation and heterochromatin assembly. However, 
these transcripts can be deleterious, and their accumulation is suppressed by
several mechanisms including degradation by the nuclear exosome. The mechanisms
by which cells differentiate coding RNAs from transcripts targeted for
degradation are not clear. Here we show that the variant histone H2A.Z, which is 
loaded preferentially at the 5' ends of genes by the Swr1 complex containing a
JmjC domain protein, mediates suppression of antisense transcripts in the fission
yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe genome. H2A.Z is partially redundant in this
regard with the Clr4 (known as SUV39H in mammals)-containing heterochromatin
silencing complex that is also distributed at euchromatic loci, and with RNA
interference component Argonaute (Ago1). Loss of Clr4 or Ago1 alone has little
effect on antisense transcript levels, but cells lacking either of these factors 
and H2A.Z show markedly increased levels of antisense RNAs that are normally
degraded by the exosome. These analyses suggest that as well as performing other 
functions, H2A.Z is a component of a genome indexing mechanism that cooperates
with heterochromatin and RNAi factors to suppress read-through antisense
transcripts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08321 
PMCID: PMC2746258
PMID: 19693008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):399-401. doi: 10.1038/nature08309. Epub 2009 Aug
16.

Genetic variation in IL28B predicts hepatitis C treatment-induced viral
clearance.

Ge D(1), Fellay J, Thompson AJ, Simon JS, Shianna KV, Urban TJ, Heinzen EL, Qiu
P, Bertelsen AH, Muir AJ, Sulkowski M, McHutchison JG, Goldstein DB.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genome Sciences & Policy, Center for Human Genome Variation,
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2010 Feb;51(2):703-5.
    J Hepatol. 2010 Mar;52(3):452-4.
    Gastroenterology. 2010 Jun;138(7):2546-9.
    Pharmacogenomics. 2010 Feb;11(2):135-9.
    Gastroenterology. 2010 Apr;138(4):1622-4.
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):357-8.

Chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) affects 170 million people
worldwide and is the leading cause of cirrhosis in North America. Although the
recommended treatment for chronic infection involves a 48-week course of
peginterferon-alpha-2b (PegIFN-alpha-2b) or -alpha-2a (PegIFN-alpha-2a) combined 
with ribavirin (RBV), it is well known that many patients will not be cured by
treatment, and that patients of European ancestry have a significantly higher
probability of being cured than patients of African ancestry. In addition to
limited efficacy, treatment is often poorly tolerated because of side effects
that prevent some patients from completing therapy. For these reasons,
identification of the determinants of response to treatment is a high priority.
Here we report that a genetic polymorphism near the IL28B gene, encoding
interferon-lambda-3 (IFN-lambda-3), is associated with an approximately twofold
change in response to treatment, both among patients of European ancestry (P =
1.06 x 10(-25)) and African-Americans (P = 2.06 x 10(-3)). Because the genotype
leading to better response is in substantially greater frequency in European than
African populations, this genetic polymorphism also explains approximately half
of the difference in response rates between African-Americans and patients of
European ancestry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08309 
PMID: 19684573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):361-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08319. Epub 2009 Aug 12.

The structural basis of tail-anchored membrane protein recognition by Get3.

Mateja A(1), Szlachcic A, Downing ME, Dobosz M, Mariappan M, Hegde RS, Keenan RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, The University of Chicago,
Gordon Center for Integrative Science, Room W238, 929 East 57th Street, Chicago, 
Illinois 60637, USA.

Targeting of newly synthesized membrane proteins to the endoplasmic reticulum is 
an essential cellular process. Most membrane proteins are recognized and targeted
co-translationally by the signal recognition particle. However, nearly 5% of
membrane proteins are 'tail-anchored' by a single carboxy-terminal transmembrane 
domain that cannot access the co-translational pathway. Instead, tail-anchored
proteins are targeted post-translationally by a conserved ATPase termed Get3. The
mechanistic basis for tail-anchored protein recognition or targeting by Get3 is
not known. Here we present crystal structures of yeast Get3 in 'open'
(nucleotide-free) and 'closed' (ADP.AlF(4)(-)-bound) dimer states. In the closed 
state, the dimer interface of Get3 contains an enormous hydrophobic groove
implicated by mutational analyses in tail-anchored protein binding. In the open
state, Get3 undergoes a striking rearrangement that disrupts the groove and
shields its hydrophobic surfaces. These data provide a molecular mechanism for
nucleotide-regulated binding and release of tail-anchored proteins during their
membrane targeting by Get3.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08319 
PMID: 19675567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):300-1.

Eyeing the underdog.

Grens K.

Can Philadelphia's biotechnology industry absorb the jobs lost from
pharmaceutical companies? Kerry Grens investigates.


PMID: 19750593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):282-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08296.

Nucleotides released by apoptotic cells act as a find-me signal to promote
phagocytic clearance.

Elliott MR(1), Chekeni FB, Trampont PC, Lazarowski ER, Kadl A, Walk SF, Park D,
Woodson RI, Ostankovich M, Sharma P, Lysiak JJ, Harden TK, Leitinger N,
Ravichandran KS.

Author information: 
(1)Beirne B. Carter Center for Immunology Research, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):181-2.

Phagocytic removal of apoptotic cells occurs efficiently in vivo such that even
in tissues with significant apoptosis, very few apoptotic cells are detectable.
This is thought to be due to the release of 'find-me' signals by apoptotic cells 
that recruit motile phagocytes such as monocytes, macrophages and dendritic
cells, leading to the prompt clearance of the dying cells. However, the identity 
and in vivo relevance of such find-me signals are not well understood. Here,
through several lines of evidence, we identify extracellular nucleotides as a
critical apoptotic cell find-me signal. We demonstrate the caspase-dependent
release of ATP and UTP (in equimolar quantities) during the early stages of
apoptosis by primary thymocytes and cell lines. Purified nucleotides at these
concentrations were sufficient to induce monocyte recruitment comparable to that 
of apoptotic cell supernatants. Enzymatic removal of ATP and UTP (by apyrase or
the expression of ectopic CD39) abrogated the ability of apoptotic cell
supernatants to recruit monocytes in vitro and in vivo. We then identified the
ATP/UTP receptor P2Y(2) as a critical sensor of nucleotides released by apoptotic
cells using RNA interference-mediated depletion studies in monocytes, and
macrophages from P2Y(2)-null mice. The relevance of nucleotides in apoptotic cell
clearance in vivo was revealed by two approaches. First, in a murine air-pouch
model, apoptotic cell supernatants induced a threefold greater recruitment of
monocytes and macrophages than supernatants from healthy cells did; this
recruitment was abolished by depletion of nucleotides and was significantly
decreased in P2Y(2)(-/-) (also known as P2ry2(-/-)) mice. Second, clearance of
apoptotic thymocytes was significantly impaired by either depletion of
nucleotides or interference with P2Y receptor function (by pharmacological
inhibition or in P2Y(2)(-/-) mice). These results identify nucleotides as a
critical find-me cue released by apoptotic cells to promote P2Y(2)-dependent
recruitment of phagocytes, and provide evidence for a clear relationship between 
a find-me signal and efficient corpse clearance in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08296 
PMCID: PMC2851546
PMID: 19741708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):250-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08266.

Fluctuations in Precambrian atmospheric oxygenation recorded by chromium
isotopes.

Frei R(1), Gaucher C, Poulton SW, Canfield DE.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geography and Geology and Nordic Center for Earth Evolution
(NordCEE), University of Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 10, 1350 Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):179-81.

Geochemical data suggest that oxygenation of the Earth's atmosphere occurred in
two broad steps. The first rise in atmospheric oxygen is thought to have occurred
between approximately 2.45 and 2.2 Gyr ago, leading to a significant increase in 
atmospheric oxygen concentrations and concomitant oxygenation of the shallow
surface ocean. The second increase in atmospheric oxygen appears to have taken
place in distinct stages during the late Neoproterozoic era ( approximately
800-542 Myr ago), ultimately leading to oxygenation of the deep ocean
approximately 580 Myr ago, but details of the evolution of atmospheric
oxygenation remain uncertain. Here we use chromium (Cr) stable isotopes from
banded iron formations (BIFs) to track the presence of Cr(VI) in Precambrian
oceans, providing a time-resolved picture of the oxygenation history of the
Earth's atmosphere-hydrosphere system. The geochemical behaviour of Cr is highly 
sensitive to the redox state of the surface environment because oxidative
weathering processes produce the oxidized hexavalent [Cr(VI)] form. Oxidation of 
reduced trivalent [Cr(III)] chromium on land is accompanied by an isotopic
fractionation, leading to enrichment of the mobile hexavalent form in the heavier
isotope. Our fractionated Cr isotope data indicate the accumulation of Cr(VI) in 
ocean surface waters approximately 2.8 to 2.6 Gyr ago and a likely transient
elevation in atmospheric and surface ocean oxygenation before the first great
rise of oxygen 2.45-2.2 Gyr ago (the Great Oxidation Event). In approximately
1.88-Gyr-old BIFs we find that Cr isotopes are not fractionated, indicating a
decline in atmospheric oxygen. Our findings suggest that the Great Oxidation
Event did not lead to a unidirectional stepwise increase in atmospheric oxygen.
In the late Neoproterozoic, we observe strong positive fractionations in Cr
isotopes (delta(53)Cr up to +4.9 per thousand), providing independent support for
increased surface oxygenation at that time, which may have stimulated rapid
evolution of macroscopic multicellular life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08266 
PMID: 19741707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):246-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08288.

Stable single-unit-cell nanosheets of zeolite MFI as active and long-lived
catalysts.

Choi M(1), Na K, Kim J, Sakamoto Y, Terasaki O, Ryoo R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Functional Nanomaterials, Department of Chemistry, KAIST.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):828.

Zeolites-microporous crystalline aluminosilicates-are widely used in
petrochemistry and fine-chemical synthesis because strong acid sites within their
uniform micropores enable size- and shape-selective catalysis. But the very
presence of the micropores, with aperture diameters below 1 nm, often goes
hand-in-hand with diffusion limitations that adversely affect catalytic activity.
The problem can be overcome by reducing the thickness of the zeolite crystals,
which reduces diffusion path lengths and thus improves molecular diffusion. This 
has been realized by synthesizing zeolite nanocrystals, by exfoliating layered
zeolites, and by introducing mesopores in the microporous material through
templating strategies or demetallation processes. But except for the exfoliation,
none of these strategies has produced 'ultrathin' zeolites with thicknesses below
5 nm. Here we show that appropriately designed bifunctional surfactants can
direct the formation of zeolite structures on the mesoporous and microporous
length scales simultaneously and thus yield MFI (ZSM-5, one of the most important
catalysts in the petrochemical industry) zeolite nanosheets that are only 2 nm
thick, which corresponds to the b-axis dimension of a single MFI unit cell. The
large number of acid sites on the external surface of these zeolites renders them
highly active for the catalytic conversion of large organic molecules, and the
reduced crystal thickness facilitates diffusion and thereby dramatically
suppresses catalyst deactivation through coke deposition during
methanol-to-gasoline conversion. We expect that our synthesis approach could be
applied to other zeolites to improve their performance in a range of important
catalytic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08288 
PMID: 19741706 


269. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):241-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08325.

Coherent optical pulse sequencer for quantum applications.

Hosseini M(1), Sparkes BM, Hétet G, Longdell JJ, Lam PK, Buchler BC.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence for Quantum-Atom Optics, Department of Quantum
Science, The Australian National University, Canberra, Australian Capital
Territory 0200, Australia.

The bandwidth and versatility of optical devices have revolutionized information 
technology systems and communication networks. Precise and arbitrary control of
an optical field that preserves optical coherence is an important requisite for
many proposed photonic technologies. For quantum information applications, a
device that allows storage and on-demand retrieval of arbitrary quantum states of
light would form an ideal quantum optical memory. Recently, significant progress 
has been made in implementing atomic quantum memories using electromagnetically
induced transparency, photon echo spectroscopy, off-resonance Raman spectroscopy 
and other atom-light interaction processes. Single-photon and
bright-optical-field storage with quantum states have both been successfully
demonstrated. Here we present a coherent optical memory based on photon echoes
induced through controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening. Our scheme allows
storage of multiple pulses of light within a chosen frequency bandwidth, and
stored pulses can be recalled in arbitrary order with any chosen delay between
each recalled pulse. Furthermore, pulses can be time-compressed, time-stretched
or split into multiple smaller pulses and recalled in several pieces at chosen
times. Although our experimental results are so far limited to classical light
pulses, our technique should enable the construction of an optical random-access 
memory for time-bin quantum information, and have potential applications in
quantum information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08325 
PMID: 19741705 


270. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature08317.

The global distribution of pure anorthosite on the Moon.

Ohtake M(1), Matsunaga T, Haruyama J, Yokota Y, Morota T, Honda C, Ogawa Y, Torii
M, Miyamoto H, Arai T, Hirata N, Iwasaki A, Nakamura R, Hiroi T, Sugihara T,
Takeda H, Otake H, Pieters CM, Saiki K, Kitazato K, Abe M, Asada N, Demura H,
Yamaguchi Y, Sasaki S, Kodama S, Terazono J, Shirao M, Yamaji A, Minami S,
Akiyama H, Josset JL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Space and Astronautical Science, Japan Aerospace Exploration
Agency, 3-1-1 Yoshino-dai, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 229-8510, Japan.

It has been thought that the lunar highland crust was formed by the
crystallization and floatation of plagioclase from a global magma ocean, although
the actual generation mechanisms are still debated. The composition of the lunar 
highland crust is therefore important for understanding the formation of such a
magma ocean and the subsequent evolution of the Moon. The Multiband Imager on the
Selenological and Engineering Explorer (SELENE) has a high spatial resolution of 
optimized spectral coverage, which should allow a clear view of the composition
of the lunar crust. Here we report the global distribution of rocks of high
plagioclase abundance (approaching 100 vol.%), using an unambiguous plagioclase
absorption band recorded by the SELENE Multiband Imager. If the upper crust
indeed consists of nearly 100 vol.% plagioclase, this is significantly higher
than previous estimates of 82-92 vol.% (refs 2, 6, 7), providing a valuable
constraint on models of lunar magma ocean evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08317 
PMID: 19741704 


271. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):218-23. doi: 10.1038/nature08454.

Molecular networks as sensors and drivers of common human diseases.

Schadt EE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Biosciences, 1505 Adams Drive, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
eschadt@pacificbiosciences.com

The molecular biology revolution led to an intense focus on the study of
interactions between DNA, RNA and protein biosynthesis in order to develop a more
comprehensive understanding of the cell. One consequence of this focus was a
reduced attention to whole-system physiology, making it difficult to link
molecular biology to clinical medicine. Equipped with the tools emerging from the
genomics revolution, we are now in a position to link molecular states to
physiological ones through the reverse engineering of molecular networks that
sense DNA and environmental perturbations and, as a result, drive variations in
physiological states associated with disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08454 
PMID: 19741703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):212-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08453.

Chromosome crosstalk in three dimensions.

Göndör A(1), Ohlsson R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, Nobels väg 16, Box 280,
Karolinska Institute, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. anita.gondor@ki.se

The genome forms extensive and dynamic physical interactions with itself in the
form of chromosome loops and bridges, thus exploring the three-dimensional space 
of the nucleus. It is now possible to examine these interactions at the molecular
level, and we have gained glimpses of their functional implications. Chromosomal 
interactions can contribute to the silencing and activation of genes within the
three-dimensional context of the nuclear architecture. Technical advances in
detecting these interactions contribute to our understanding of the functional
organization of the genome, as well as its adaptive plasticity in response to
environmental changes during development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08453 
PMID: 19741702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):206-11. doi: 10.1038/nature08452.

Implications of chimaeric non-co-linear transcripts.

Gingeras TR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA. gingeras@cshl.edu

Deep sequencing of 'transcriptomes'--the collection of all RNA transcripts
produced at a given time--from worms to humans reveals that some transcripts are 
composed of sequence segments that are not co-linear, with pieces of sequence
coming from distant regions of DNA, even different chromosomes. Some of these
'chimaeric' transcripts are formed by genetic rearrangements, but others arise
during post-transcriptional events. The 'trans-splicing' process in lower
eukaryotes is well understood, but events in higher eukaryotes are not. The
existence of such chimaeric RNAs has far-reaching implications for the potential 
information content of genomes and the way it is arranged.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08452 
PMCID: PMC4020519
PMID: 19741701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):199-205. doi: 10.1038/nature08451.

Genomic views of distant-acting enhancers.

Visel A(1), Rubin EM, Pennacchio LA.

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Division, MS 84-171, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

In contrast to protein-coding sequences, the significance of variation in
non-coding DNA in human disease has been minimally explored. A great number of
recent genome-wide association studies suggest that non-coding variation is a
significant risk factor for common disorders, but the mechanisms by which this
variation contributes to disease remain largely obscure. Distant-acting
transcriptional enhancers--a major category of functional non-coding DNA--are
involved in many developmental and disease-relevant processes. Genome-wide
approaches to their discovery and functional characterization are now available
and provide a growing knowledge base for the systematic exploration of their role
in human biology and disease susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08451 
PMCID: PMC2923221
PMID: 19741700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):193-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08450.

The logic of chromatin architecture and remodelling at promoters.

Cairns BR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of
Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.
brad.cairns@hci.utah.edu

The regulation of gene transcription involves a dynamic balance between packaging
regulatory sequences into chromatin and allowing transcriptional regulators
access to these sequences. Access is restricted by the nucleosomes, but these can
be repositioned or ejected by enzymes known as nucleosome remodellers. In
addition, the DNA sequence can impart stiffness or curvature to the DNA, thereby 
affecting the position of nucleosomes on the DNA, influencing particular promoter
'architectures'. Recent genome-wide studies in yeast suggest that constitutive
and regulated genes have architectures that differ in terms of nucleosome
position, turnover, remodelling requirements and transcriptional noise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08450 
PMID: 19741699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):186-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08449.

Defining mechanisms that regulate RNA polymerase II transcription in vivo.

Fuda NJ(1), Ardehali MB, Lis JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

In the eukaryotic genome, the thousands of genes that encode messenger RNA are
transcribed by a molecular machine called RNA polymerase II. Analysing the
distribution and status of RNA polymerase II across a genome has provided crucial
insights into the long-standing mysteries of transcription and its regulation.
These studies identify points in the transcription cycle where RNA polymerase II 
accumulates after encountering a rate-limiting step. When coupled with
genome-wide mapping of transcription factors, these approaches identify key
regulatory steps and factors and, importantly, provide an understanding of the
mechanistic generalities, as well as the rich diversities, of gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08449 
PMCID: PMC2833331
PMID: 19741698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):171-3. doi: 10.1038/461171a.

Post-publication sharing of data and tools.

Schofield PN(1), Bubela T, Weaver T, Portilla L, Brown SD, Hancock JM, Einhorn D,
Tocchini-Valentini G, Hrabe de Angelis M, Rosenthal N; CASIMIR Rome Meeting
participants.

Collaborators: Schofield PN, Bubela T, Weaver T, Portilla L, Brown SD, Hancock
JM, Einhorn D, Tocchini-Valentini G, Hrabe de Angelis M, Rosenthal N, Barnes J,
Collis AJ, Desaintes C, Dixon JE, Doyle A, Eppig J, Field D, Grünberger M, Heim
S, Hicks G, Hubbard T, Jennings R, Kennedy K, Kennedy G, Kolar P, Livingstone A, 
Lloyd K, Masuya H, Matteoni R, Maurer J, McKenzie A, McKerlie C, Moore M,
Muddyman D, Nguyen T, Parsons M, Quackenbush J, Reuveni E, Salimova E, Siegal V, 
Skingle M, Smedley D, Sugden A, Wakana S, Walsh JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3EG, UK. PS@mole.bio.cam.ac.uk

Despite existing guidelines on access to data and bioresources, good practice is 
not widespread. A meeting of mouse researchers in Rome proposes ways to promote a
culture of sharing.

DOI: 10.1038/461171a 
PMID: 19741686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):168-70. doi: 10.1038/461168a.

Prepublication data sharing.

Toronto International Data Release Workshop Authors, Birney E, Hudson TJ, Green
ED, Gunter C, Eddy S, Rogers J, Harris JR, Ehrlich SD, Apweiler R, Austin CP,
Berglund L, Bobrow M, Bountra C, Brookes AJ, Cambon-Thomsen A, Carter NP,
Chisholm RL, Contreras JL, Cooke RM, Crosby WL, Dewar K, Durbin R, Dyke SO, Ecker
JR, El Emam K, Feuk L, Gabriel SB, Gallacher J, Gelbart WM, Granell A, Guarner F,
Hubbard T, Jackson SA, Jennings JL, Joly Y, Jones SM, Kaye J, Kennedy KL,
Knoppers BM, Kyrpides NC, Lowrance WW, Luo J, MacKay JJ, Martín-Rivera L,
McCombie WR, McPherson JD, Miller L, Miller W, Moerman D, Mooser V, Morton CC,
Ostell JM, Ouellette BF, Parkhill J, Raina PS, Rawlings C, Scherer SE, Scherer
SW, Schofield PN, Sensen CW, Stodden VC, Sussman MR, Tanaka T, Thornton J,
Tsunoda T, Valle D, Vuorio EI, Walker NM, Wallace S, Weinstock G, Whitman WB,
Worley KC, Wu C, Wu J, Yu J.

Rapid release of prepublication data has served the field of genomics well.
Attendees at a workshop in Toronto recommend extending the practice to other
biological data sets.

DOI: 10.1038/461168a 
PMCID: PMC3073843
PMID: 19741685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):146. doi: 10.1038/461146a.

Overrated ratings.

[No authors listed]

Criteria for 'green buildings' need to make energy performance a priority--as do 
universities.

DOI: 10.1038/461146a 
PMID: 19741660 


280. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):145. doi: 10.1038/461145a.

Data's shameful neglect.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):461.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 22;461(7267):1053.

Research cannot flourish if data are not preserved and made accessible. All
concerned must act accordingly.

DOI: 10.1038/461145a 
PMID: 19741659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):287-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08297. Epub 2009 Aug 30.

ErbB2 resembles an autoinhibited invertebrate epidermal growth factor receptor.

Alvarado D(1), Klein DE, Lemmon MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania School
of Medicine, 809C Stellar-Chance Laboratories, 422 Curie Boulevard, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104-6059, USA.

Comment in
    Cell. 2010 Aug 20;142(4):513-5.

The orphan receptor tyrosine kinase ErbB2 (also known as HER2 or Neu) transforms 
cells when overexpressed, and it is an important therapeutic target in human
cancer. Structural studies have suggested that the oncogenic (and
ligand-independent) signalling properties of ErbB2 result from the absence of a
key intramolecular 'tether' in the extracellular region that autoinhibits other
human ErbB receptors, including the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor.
Although ErbB2 is unique among the four human ErbB receptors, here we show that
it is the closest structural relative of the single EGF receptor family member in
Drosophila melanogaster (dEGFR). Genetic and biochemical data show that dEGFR is 
tightly regulated by growth factor ligands, yet a crystal structure shows that
it, too, lacks the intramolecular tether seen in human EGFR, ErbB3 and ErbB4.
Instead, a distinct set of autoinhibitory interdomain interactions hold
unliganded dEGFR in an inactive state. All of these interactions are maintained
(and even extended) in ErbB2, arguing against the suggestion that ErbB2 lacks
autoinhibition. We therefore suggest that normal and pathogenic ErbB2 signalling 
may be regulated by ligands in the same way as dEGFR. Our findings have important
implications for ErbB2 regulation in human cancer, and for developing therapeutic
approaches that target novel aspects of this orphan receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08297 
PMCID: PMC2762480
PMID: 19718021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):292-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08291. Epub 2009 Aug 30.

Structure of the BK potassium channel in a lipid membrane from electron
cryomicroscopy.

Wang L(1), Sigworth FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University, 333 Cedar
Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

A long-sought goal in structural biology has been the imaging of membrane
proteins in their membrane environments. This goal has been achieved with
electron crystallography in those special cases where a protein forms highly
ordered arrays in lipid bilayers. It has also been achieved by NMR methods in
proteins up to 50 kilodaltons (kDa) in size, although milligram quantities of
protein and isotopic labelling are required. For structural analysis of large
soluble proteins in microgram quantities, an increasingly powerful method that
does not require crystallization is single-particle reconstruction from electron 
microscopy of cryogenically cooled samples (electron cryomicroscopy (cryo-EM)).
Here we report the first single-particle cryo-EM study of a membrane protein, the
human large-conductance calcium- and voltage-activated potassium channel (BK), in
a lipid environment. The new method is called random spherically constrained
(RSC) single-particle reconstruction. BK channels, members of the
six-transmembrane-segment (6TM) ion channel family, were reconstituted at low
density into lipid vesicles (liposomes), and their function was verified by a
potassium flux assay. Vesicles were also frozen in vitreous ice and imaged in an 
electron microscope. From images of 8,400 individual protein particles, a
three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of the BK channel and its membrane
environment was obtained at a resolution of 1.7-2.0 nm. Not requiring the
formation of crystals, the RSC approach promises to be useful in the structural
study of many other membrane proteins as well.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08291 
PMCID: PMC2797367
PMID: 19718020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):258-262. doi: 10.1038/nature08284. Epub 2009 Aug
26.

Photosystem I gene cassettes are present in marine virus genomes.

Sharon I(#)(1)(2), Alperovitch A(#)(1), Rohwer F(3)(4), Haynes M(3), Glaser F(5),
Atamna-Ismaeel N(1), Pinter RY(2), Partensky F(6), Koonin EV(7), Wolf YI(7),
Nelson N(8), Béjà O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biology, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000,
Israel.
(2)Faculty of Computer Science, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 
32000, Israel.
(3)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, San Diego 92182,
California, USA.
(4)Center for Microbial Sciences, San Diego State University, San Diego 92182,
California, USA.
(5)Bioinformatics Knowledge Unit, Lorry I. Lokey Interdisciplinary Center for
Life Sciences and Engineering, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa
32000, Israel.
(6)CNRS and UPMC-Université Paris 6 (UMR 7144), Station Biologique, 29682
Roscoff, France.
(7)National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20894, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Daniella 
Rich Institute for Structural Biology, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978,
Israel.
(#)Contributed equally

Cyanobacteria of the Synechococcus and Prochlorococcus genera are important
contributors to photosynthetic productivity in the open oceans. Recently, core
photosystem II (PSII) genes were identified in cyanophages and proposed to
function in photosynthesis and in increasing viral fitness by supplementing the
host production of these proteins. Here we show evidence for the presence of
photosystem I (PSI) genes in the genomes of viruses that infect these marine
cyanobacteria, using pre-existing metagenomic data from the global ocean sampling
expedition as well as from viral biomes. The seven cyanobacterial core PSI genes 
identified in this study, psaA, B, C, D, E, K and a unique J and F fusion, form a
cluster in cyanophage genomes, suggestive of selection for a distinct function in
the virus life cycle. The existence of this PSI cluster was confirmed with
overlapping and long polymerase chain reaction on environmental DNA from the
Northern Line Islands. Potentially, the seven proteins encoded by the viral genes
are sufficient to form an intact monomeric PSI complex. Projection of viral
predicted peptides on the cyanobacterial PSI crystal structure suggested that the
viral-PSI components might provide a unique way of funnelling reducing power from
respiratory and other electron transfer chains to the PSI.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08284 
PMCID: PMC4605144
PMID: 19710652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):277-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08295. Epub 2009 Aug 26.

Modification of CO2 avoidance behaviour in Drosophila by inhibitory odorants.

Turner SL(1), Ray A.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular, Molecular, and Developmental Biology Program, University of
California, Riverside, California 92521, USA.

The fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits a robust and innate olfactory-based
avoidance behaviour to CO(2), a component of odour emitted from stressed flies.
Specialized neurons in the antenna and a dedicated neuronal circuit in the higher
olfactory system mediate CO(2) detection and avoidance. However, fruitflies need 
to overcome this avoidance response in some environments that contain CO(2) such 
as ripening fruits and fermenting yeast, which are essential food sources. Very
little is known about the molecular and neuronal basis of this unique,
context-dependent modification of innate olfactory avoidance behaviour. Here we
identify a new class of odorants present in food that directly inhibit
CO(2)-sensitive neurons in the antenna. Using an in vivo expression system we
establish that the odorants act on the Gr21a/Gr63a CO(2) receptor. The presence
of these odorants significantly and specifically reduces CO(2)-mediated avoidance
behaviour, as well as avoidance mediated by 'Drosophila stress odour'. We propose
a model in which behavioural avoidance to CO(2) is directly influenced by
inhibitory interactions of the novel odours with CO(2) receptors. Furthermore, we
observe differences in the temporal dynamics of inhibition: the effect of one of 
these odorants lasts several minutes beyond the initial exposure. Notably,
animals that have been briefly pre-exposed to this odorant do not respond to the 
CO(2) avoidance cue even after the odorant is no longer present. We also show
that related odorants are effective inhibitors of the CO(2) response in Culex
mosquitoes that transmit West Nile fever and filariasis. Our findings have
broader implications in highlighting the important role of inhibitory odorants in
olfactory coding, and in their potential to disrupt CO(2)-mediated host-seeking
behaviour in disease-carrying insects like mosquitoes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08295 
PMID: 19710651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):267-71. doi: 10.1038/nature08298. Epub 2009 Aug 26.

The avian Z-linked gene DMRT1 is required for male sex determination in the
chicken.

Smith CA(1), Roeszler KN, Ohnesorg T, Cummins DM, Farlie PG, Doran TJ, Sinclair
AH.

Author information: 
(1)Murdoch Children's Research Institute and Department of Paediatrics, The
University of Melbourne, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria 3052,
Australia. craig.smith@mcri.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):177-8.
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):34.

Sex in birds is chromosomally based, as in mammals, but the sex chromosomes are
different and the mechanism of avian sex determination has been a long-standing
mystery. In the chicken and all other birds, the homogametic sex is male (ZZ) and
the heterogametic sex is female (ZW). Two hypotheses have been proposed for the
mechanism of avian sex determination. The W (female) chromosome may carry a
dominant-acting ovary determinant. Alternatively, the dosage of a Z-linked gene
may mediate sex determination, two doses being required for male development
(ZZ). A strong candidate avian sex-determinant under the dosage hypothesis is the
conserved Z-linked gene, DMRT1 (doublesex and mab-3-related transcription factor 
1). Here we used RNA interference (RNAi) to knock down DMRT1 in early chicken
embryos. Reduction of DMRT1 protein expression in ovo leads to feminization of
the embryonic gonads in genetically male (ZZ) embryos. Affected males show
partial sex reversal, characterized by feminization of the gonads. The feminized 
left gonad shows female-like histology, disorganized testis cords and a decline
in the testicular marker, SOX9. The ovarian marker, aromatase, is ectopically
activated. The feminized right gonad shows a more variable loss of DMRT1 and
ectopic aromatase activation, suggesting differential sensitivity to DMRT1
between left and right gonads. Germ cells also show a female pattern of
distribution in the feminized male gonads. These results indicate that DMRT1 is
required for testis determination in the chicken. Our data support the Z dosage
hypothesis for avian sex determination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08298 
PMID: 19710650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):225-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08265. Epub 2009 Aug 23.

Co-translational mRNA decay in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Hu W(1), Sweet TJ, Chamnongpol S, Baker KE, Coller J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for RNA Molecular Biology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44106, USA.

The rates of RNA decay and transcription determine the steady-state levels of all
messenger RNA and both can be subject to regulation. Although the details of
transcriptional regulation are becoming increasingly understood, the mechanism(s)
controlling mRNA decay remain unclear. In yeast, a major pathway of mRNA decay
begins with deadenylation followed by decapping and 5'-3' exonuclease digestion. 
Importantly, it is hypothesized that ribosomes must be removed from mRNA before
transcripts are destroyed. Contrary to this prediction, here we show that decay
takes place while mRNAs are associated with actively translating ribosomes. The
data indicate that dissociation of ribosomes from mRNA is not a prerequisite for 
decay and we suggest that the 5'-3' polarity of mRNA degradation has evolved to
ensure that the last translocating ribosome can complete translation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08265 
PMCID: PMC2745705
PMID: 19701183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):230-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08283. Epub 2009 Aug 23.

An RNA-dependent RNA polymerase formed by TERT and the RMRP RNA.

Maida Y(1), Yasukawa M, Furuuchi M, Lassmann T, Possemato R, Okamoto N, Kasim V, 
Hayashizaki Y, Hahn WC, Masutomi K.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Stem Cell Project, National Cancer Center Research Institute, 5-1-1
Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan.

Constitutive expression of telomerase in human cells prevents the onset of
senescence and crisis by maintaining telomere homeostasis. However, accumulating 
evidence suggests that the human telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic
subunit (TERT) contributes to cell physiology independently of its ability to
elongate telomeres. Here we show that TERT interacts with the RNA component of
mitochondrial RNA processing endoribonuclease (RMRP), a gene that is mutated in
the inherited pleiotropic syndrome cartilage-hair hypoplasia. Human TERT and RMRP
form a distinct ribonucleoprotein complex that has RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
(RdRP) activity and produces double-stranded RNAs that can be processed into
small interfering RNA in a Dicer (also known as DICER1)-dependent manner. These
observations identify a mammalian RdRP composed of TERT in complex with RMRP.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08283 
PMCID: PMC2755635
PMID: 19701182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):263-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08275. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

Changes of mind in decision-making.

Resulaj A(1), Kiani R, Wolpert DM, Shadlen MN.

Author information: 
(1)Computational and Biological Learning Laboratory, Department of Engineering,
University of Cambridge, Trumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1PZ, UK.

A decision is a commitment to a proposition or plan of action based on evidence
and the expected costs and benefits associated with the outcome. Progress in a
variety of fields has led to a quantitative understanding of the mechanisms that 
evaluate evidence and reach a decision. Several formalisms propose that a
representation of noisy evidence is evaluated against a criterion to produce a
decision. Without additional evidence, however, these formalisms fail to explain 
why a decision-maker would change their mind. Here we extend a model, developed
to account for both the timing and the accuracy of the initial decision, to
explain subsequent changes of mind. Subjects made decisions about a noisy visual 
stimulus, which they indicated by moving a handle. Although they received no
additional information after initiating their movement, their hand trajectories
betrayed a change of mind in some trials. We propose that noisy evidence is
accumulated over time until it reaches a criterion level, or bound, which
determines the initial decision, and that the brain exploits information that is 
in the processing pipeline when the initial decision is made to subsequently
either reverse or reaffirm the initial decision. The model explains both the
frequency of changes of mind as well as their dependence on both task difficulty 
and whether the initial decision was accurate or erroneous. The theoretical and
experimental findings advance the understanding of decision-making to the highly 
flexible and cognitive acts of vacillation and self-correction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08275 
PMCID: PMC2875179
PMID: 19693010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):272-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08250. Epub 2009 Aug 16.

Targeted capture and massively parallel sequencing of 12 human exomes.

Ng SB(1), Turner EH, Robertson PD, Flygare SD, Bigham AW, Lee C, Shaffer T, Wong 
M, Bhattacharjee A, Eichler EE, Bamshad M, Nickerson DA, Shendure J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA. sarahng@u.washington.edu

Genome-wide association studies suggest that common genetic variants explain only
a modest fraction of heritable risk for common diseases, raising the question of 
whether rare variants account for a significant fraction of unexplained
heritability. Although DNA sequencing costs have fallen markedly, they remain far
from what is necessary for rare and novel variants to be routinely identified at 
a genome-wide scale in large cohorts. We have therefore sought to develop
second-generation methods for targeted sequencing of all protein-coding regions
('exomes'), to reduce costs while enriching for discovery of highly penetrant
variants. Here we report on the targeted capture and massively parallel
sequencing of the exomes of 12 humans. These include eight HapMap individuals
representing three populations, and four unrelated individuals with a rare
dominantly inherited disorder, Freeman-Sheldon syndrome (FSS). We demonstrate the
sensitive and specific identification of rare and common variants in over 300
megabases of coding sequence. Using FSS as a proof-of-concept, we show that
candidate genes for Mendelian disorders can be identified by exome sequencing of 
a small number of unrelated, affected individuals. This strategy may be
extendable to diseases with more complex genetics through larger sample sizes and
appropriate weighting of non-synonymous variants by predicted functional impact.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08250 
PMCID: PMC2844771
PMID: 19684571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):254-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08251. Epub 2009 Aug 12.

The importance of niches for the maintenance of species diversity.

Levine JM(1), HilleRisLambers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology, University of
California, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA. levine@lifesci.ucsb.edu

Ecological communities characteristically contain a wide diversity of species
with important functional, economic and aesthetic value. Ecologists have long
questioned how this diversity is maintained. Classic theory shows that stable
coexistence requires competitors to differ in their niches; this has motivated
numerous investigations of ecological differences presumed to maintain diversity.
That niche differences are key to coexistence, however, has recently been
challenged by the neutral theory of biodiversity, which explains coexistence with
the equivalence of competitors. The ensuing controversy has motivated calls for a
better understanding of the collective importance of niche differences for the
diversity observed in ecological communities. Here we integrate theory and
experimentation to show that niche differences collectively stabilize the
dynamics of experimental communities of serpentine annual plants. We used
field-parameterized population models to develop a null expectation for community
dynamics without the stabilizing effects of niche differences. The population
growth rates predicted by this null model varied by several orders of magnitude
between species, which is sufficient for rapid competitive exclusion. Moreover,
after two generations of community change in the field, Shannon diversity was
over 50 per cent greater in communities stabilized by niche differences relative 
to those exhibiting dynamics predicted by the null model. Finally, in an
experiment manipulating species' relative abundances, population growth rates
increased when species became rare--the demographic signature of niche
differences. Our work thus provides strong evidence that species differences have
a critical role in stabilizing species diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08251 
PMID: 19675568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):E1; discussion E2.

Scaling of BMP gradients in Xenopus embryos.

Francois P(1), Vonica A, Brivanlou AH, Siggia ED.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Studies in Physics and Biology, Rockefeller University, 1230 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Jun 26;453(7199):1205-11.

Metazoan organisms can 'scale', that is, maintain similar proportions regardless 
of size. Ben-Zvi et al. use experiments in Xenopus to support a quantitative
model that explains morphological scaling as the result of scaling of a gradient 
of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signals. We believe that the evidence for
scaling in Xenopus is misinterpreted, and that their model for embryonic
patterning disagrees with prior data. The experiments they present supporting
their model admit alternative interpretations.


PMID: 19736667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):95-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08324.

Reptilian heart development and the molecular basis of cardiac chamber evolution.

Koshiba-Takeuchi K(1), Mori AD, Kaynak BL, Cebra-Thomas J, Sukonnik T, Georges
RO, Latham S, Beck L, Henkelman RM, Black BL, Olson EN, Wade J, Takeuchi JK,
Nemer M, Gilbert SF, Bruneau BG.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California
94158, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):550. Beck, Laural [corrected to Beck, Laurel].

The emergence of terrestrial life witnessed the need for more sophisticated
circulatory systems. This has evolved in birds, mammals and crocodilians into
complete septation of the heart into left and right sides, allowing separate
pulmonary and systemic circulatory systems, a key requirement for the evolution
of endothermy. However, the evolution of the amniote heart is poorly understood. 
Reptilian hearts have been the subject of debate in the context of the evolution 
of cardiac septation: do they possess a single ventricular chamber or two
incompletely septated ventricles? Here we examine heart development in the
red-eared slider turtle, Trachemys scripta elegans (a chelonian), and the green
anole, Anolis carolinensis (a squamate), focusing on gene expression in the
developing ventricles. Both reptiles initially form a ventricular chamber that
homogenously expresses the T-box transcription factor gene Tbx5. In contrast, in 
birds and mammals, Tbx5 is restricted to left ventricle precursors. In later
stages, Tbx5 expression in the turtle (but not anole) heart is gradually
restricted to a distinct left ventricle, forming a left-right gradient. This
suggests that Tbx5 expression was refined during evolution to pattern the
ventricles. In support of this hypothesis, we show that loss of Tbx5 in the mouse
ventricle results in a single chamber lacking distinct identity, indicating a
requirement for Tbx5 in septation. Importantly, misexpression of Tbx5 throughout 
the developing myocardium to mimic the reptilian expression pattern also results 
in a single mispatterned ventricular chamber lacking septation. Thus ventricular 
septation is established by a steep and correctly positioned Tbx5 gradient. Our
findings provide a molecular mechanism for the evolution of the amniote
ventricle, and support the concept that altered expression of developmental
regulators is a key mechanism of vertebrate evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08324 
PMCID: PMC2753965
PMID: 19727199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08214.

The oldest hand-axes in Europe.

Scott GR(1), Gibert L.

Author information: 
(1)Berkeley Geochronology Center, 2455 Ridge Road, Berkeley, California 94709,
USA.

Stone tools are durable reminders of the activities, skills and customs of early 
humans, and have distinctive morphologies that reflect the development of
technological skills during the Pleistocene epoch. In Africa, large cutting tools
(hand-axes and bifacial chopping tools) became part of Palaeolithic technology
during the Early Pleistocene ( approximately 1.5 Myr ago). However, in Europe
this change had not been documented until the Middle Pleistocene (<0.5 Myr ago). 
Here we report dates for two western Mediterranean hand-axe sites that are nearly
twice the age of the supposed earliest Acheulian in western Europe.
Palaeomagnetic analysis of these two sites in southeastern Spain found reverse
polarity magnetozones, showing that hand-axes were already in Europe as early as 
0.9 Myr ago. This expanded antiquity for European hand-axe culture supports a
wide geographic distribution of Palaeolithic bifacial technology outside of
Africa during the Early Pleistocene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08214 
PMID: 19727198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature08276.

Denitrification as the dominant nitrogen loss process in the Arabian Sea.

Ward BB(1), Devol AH, Rich JJ, Chang BX, Bulow SE, Naik H, Pratihary A, Jayakumar
A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, 
USA. bbw@princeton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):49-50.

Primary production in over half of the world's oceans is limited by fixed
nitrogen availability. The main loss term from the fixed nitrogen inventory is
the production of dinitrogen gas (N(2)) by heterotrophic denitrification or the
more recently discovered autotrophic process, anaerobic ammonia oxidation
(anammox). Oceanic oxygen minimum zones (OMZ) are responsible for about 35% of
oceanic N(2) production and up to half of that occurs in the Arabian Sea.
Although denitrification was long thought to be the only loss term, it has
recently been argued that anammox alone is responsible for fixed nitrogen loss in
the OMZs. Here we measure denitrification and anammox rates and quantify the
abundance of denitrifying and anammox bacteria in the OMZ regions of the Eastern 
Tropical South Pacific and the Arabian Sea. We find that denitrification rather
than anammox dominates the N(2) loss term in the Arabian Sea, the largest and
most intense OMZ in the world ocean. In seven of eight experiments in the Arabian
Sea denitrification is responsible for 87-99% of the total N(2) production. The
dominance of denitrification is reproducible using two independent isotope
incubation methods. In contrast, anammox is dominant in the Eastern Tropical
South Pacific OMZ, as detected using one of the isotope incubation methods, as
previously reported. The abundance of denitrifying bacteria always exceeded that 
of anammox bacteria by up to 7- and 19-fold in the Eastern Tropical South Pacific
and Arabian Sea, respectively. Geographic and temporal variability in carbon
supply may be responsible for the different contributions of denitrification and 
anammox in these two OMZs. The large contribution of denitrification to N(2) loss
in the Arabian Sea indicates the global significance of denitrification to the
oceanic nitrogen budget.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08276 
PMID: 19727197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):74-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08274.

From molecular to macroscopic via the rational design of a self-assembled 3D DNA 
crystal.

Zheng J(1), Birktoft JJ, Chen Y, Wang T, Sha R, Constantinou PE, Ginell SL, Mao
C, Seeman NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, New York University, New York 10003, USA.

We live in a macroscopic three-dimensional (3D) world, but our best description
of the structure of matter is at the atomic and molecular scale. Understanding
the relationship between the two scales requires a bridge from the molecular
world to the macroscopic world. Connecting these two domains with atomic
precision is a central goal of the natural sciences, but it requires high spatial
control of the 3D structure of matter. The simplest practical route to producing 
precisely designed 3D macroscopic objects is to form a crystalline arrangement by
self-assembly, because such a periodic array has only conceptually simple
requirements: a motif that has a robust 3D structure, dominant affinity
interactions between parts of the motif when it self-associates, and predictable 
structures for these affinity interactions. Fulfilling these three criteria to
produce a 3D periodic system is not easy, but should readily be achieved with
well-structured branched DNA motifs tailed by sticky ends. Complementary sticky
ends associate with each other preferentially and assume the well-known B-DNA
structure when they do so; the helically repeating nature of DNA facilitates the 
construction of a periodic array. It is essential that the directions of
propagation associated with the sticky ends do not share the same plane, but
extend to form a 3D arrangement of matter. Here we report the crystal structure
at 4 A resolution of a designed, self-assembled, 3D crystal based on the DNA
tensegrity triangle. The data demonstrate clearly that it is possible to design
and self-assemble a well-ordered macromolecular 3D crystalline lattice with
precise control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08274 
PMCID: PMC2764300
PMID: 19727196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):70-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08203.

Laser cooling by collisional redistribution of radiation.

Vogl U(1), Weitz M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Angewandte Physik der Universität Bonn, Wegelerstrasse 8, 53115
Bonn, Germany.

The general idea that optical radiation may cool matter was put forward 80 years 
ago. Doppler cooling of dilute atomic gases is an extremely successful
application of this concept. More recently, anti-Stokes cooling in multilevel
systems has been explored, culminating in the optical refrigeration of solids.
Collisional redistribution of radiation has been proposed as a different cooling 
mechanism for atomic two-level systems, although experimental investigations
using moderate-density gases have not reached the cooling regime. Here we
experimentally demonstrate laser cooling of an atomic gas based on collisional
redistribution of radiation, using rubidium atoms in argon buffer gas at a
pressure of 230 bar. The frequent collisions in the ultradense gas transiently
shift a highly red-detuned laser beam (that is, one detuned to a much lower
frequency) into resonance, whereas spontaneous decay occurs close to the
unperturbed atomic resonance frequency. During each excitation cycle, kinetic
energy of order k(B)T-that is, the thermal energy (k(B), Boltzmann's constant; T,
temperature)-is extracted from the dense atomic sample. In a proof-of-principle
experiment with a thermally non-isolated sample, we demonstrate relative cooling 
by 66 K. The cooled gas has a density more than ten orders of magnitude greater
than the typical values used in Doppler-cooling experiments, and the cooling
power reaches 87 mW. Future applications of the technique may include
supercooling beyond the homogeneous nucleation temperature and optical chillers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08203 
PMID: 19727195 


297. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):66-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08327.

The remnants of galaxy formation from a panoramic survey of the region around
M31.

McConnachie AW(1), Irwin MJ, Ibata RA, Dubinski J, Widrow LM, Martin NF, Côté P, 
Dotter AL, Navarro JF, Ferguson AM, Puzia TH, Lewis GF, Babul A, Barmby P,
Bienaymé O, Chapman SC, Cockcroft R, Collins ML, Fardal MA, Harris WE, Huxor A,
Mackey AD, Peñarrubia J, Rich RM, Richer HB, Siebert A, Tanvir N, Valls-Gabaud D,
Venn KA.

Author information: 
(1)NRC Herzberg Institute of Astrophysics, 5071 West Saanich Road, Victoria,
British Columbia, Canada V9E 2E7. alan.mcconnachie@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):43-4.

In hierarchical cosmological models, galaxies grow in mass through the continual 
accretion of smaller ones. The tidal disruption of these systems is expected to
result in loosely bound stars surrounding the galaxy, at distances that reach
10-100 times the radius of the central disk. The number, luminosity and
morphology of the relics of this process provide significant clues to galaxy
formation history, but obtaining a comprehensive survey of these components is
difficult because of their intrinsic faintness and vast extent. Here we report a 
panoramic survey of the Andromeda galaxy (M31). We detect stars and coherent
structures that are almost certainly remnants of dwarf galaxies destroyed by the 
tidal field of M31. An improved census of their surviving counterparts implies
that three-quarters of M31's satellites brighter than M(v) = -6 await discovery. 
The brightest companion, Triangulum (M33), is surrounded by a stellar structure
that provides persuasive evidence for a recent encounter with M31. This panorama 
of galaxy structure directly confirms the basic tenets of the hierarchical galaxy
formation model and reveals the shared history of M31 and M33 in the unceasing
build-up of galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08327 
PMID: 19727194 


298. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):53-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08227.

Early-warning signals for critical transitions.

Scheffer M(1), Bascompte J, Brock WA, Brovkin V, Carpenter SR, Dakos V, Held H,
van Nes EH, Rietkerk M, Sugihara G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences, Wageningen University, PO Box 47, 6700
AA Wageningen, The Netherlands. marten.scheffer@wur.nl

Complex dynamical systems, ranging from ecosystems to financial markets and the
climate, can have tipping points at which a sudden shift to a contrasting
dynamical regime may occur. Although predicting such critical points before they 
are reached is extremely difficult, work in different scientific fields is now
suggesting the existence of generic early-warning signals that may indicate for a
wide class of systems if a critical threshold is approaching.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08227 
PMID: 19727193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08277. Epub 2009 Aug 23.

Structure of a tetrameric MscL in an expanded intermediate state.

Liu Z(1), Gandhi CS, Rees DC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):47-9.

The ability of cells to sense and respond to mechanical force underlies diverse
processes such as touch and hearing in animals, gravitropism in plants, and
bacterial osmoregulation. In bacteria, mechanosensation is mediated by the
mechanosensitive channels of large (MscL), small (MscS), potassium-dependent
(MscK) and mini (MscM) conductances. These channels act as 'emergency relief
valves' protecting bacteria from lysis upon acute osmotic down-shock. Among them,
MscL has been intensively studied since the original identification and
characterization 15 years ago. MscL is reversibly and directly gated by changes
in membrane tension. In the open state, MscL forms a non-selective 3 nS
conductance channel which gates at tensions close to the lytic limit of the
bacterial membrane. An earlier crystal structure at 3.5 A resolution of a
pentameric MscL from Mycobacterium tuberculosis represents a closed-state or
non-conducting conformation. MscL has a complex gating behaviour; it exhibits
several intermediates between the closed and open states, including one putative 
non-conductive expanded state and at least three sub-conducting states. Although 
our understanding of the closed and open states of MscL has been increasing,
little is known about the structures of the intermediate states despite their
importance in elucidating the complete gating process of MscL. Here we present
the crystal structure of a carboxy-terminal truncation mutant (Delta95-120) of
MscL from Staphylococcus aureus (SaMscL(CDelta26)) at 3.8 A resolution. Notably, 
SaMscL(CDelta26) forms a tetrameric channel with both transmembrane helices
tilted away from the membrane normal at angles close to that inferred for the
open state, probably corresponding to a non-conductive but partially expanded
intermediate state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08277 
PMCID: PMC2737600
PMID: 19701184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08241. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

A genetically encoded photoactivatable Rac controls the motility of living cells.

Wu YI(1), Frey D, Lungu OI, Jaehrig A, Schlichting I, Kuhlman B, Hahn KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599, USA. yiwu@med.unc.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Oct;11(10):680-1.

The precise spatio-temporal dynamics of protein activity are often critical in
determining cell behaviour, yet for most proteins they remain poorly understood; 
it remains difficult to manipulate protein activity at precise times and places
within living cells. Protein activity has been controlled by light, through
protein derivatization with photocleavable moieties or using photoreactive
small-molecule ligands. However, this requires use of toxic ultraviolet
wavelengths, activation is irreversible, and/or cell loading is accomplished via 
disruption of the cell membrane (for example, through microinjection). Here we
have developed a new approach to produce genetically encoded photoactivatable
derivatives of Rac1, a key GTPase regulating actin cytoskeletal dynamics in
metazoan cells. Rac1 mutants were fused to the photoreactive LOV (light oxygen
voltage) domain from phototropin, sterically blocking Rac1 interactions until
irradiation unwound a helix linking LOV to Rac1. Photoactivatable Rac1 (PA-Rac1) 
could be reversibly and repeatedly activated using 458- or 473-nm light to
generate precisely localized cell protrusions and ruffling. Localized Rac
activation or inactivation was sufficient to produce cell motility and control
the direction of cell movement. Myosin was involved in Rac control of
directionality but not in Rac-induced protrusion, whereas PAK was required for
Rac-induced protrusion. PA-Rac1 was used to elucidate Rac regulation of RhoA in
cell motility. Rac and Rho coordinate cytoskeletal behaviours with seconds and
submicrometre precision. Their mutual regulation remains controversial, with data
indicating that Rac inhibits and/or activates Rho. Rac was shown to inhibit RhoA 
in mouse embryonic fibroblasts, with inhibition modulated at protrusions and
ruffles. A PA-Rac crystal structure and modelling revealed LOV-Rac interactions
that will facilitate extension of this photoactivation approach to other
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08241 
PMCID: PMC2766670
PMID: 19693014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature08242. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

Coordination of Rho GTPase activities during cell protrusion.

Machacek M(1), Hodgson L, Welch C, Elliott H, Pertz O, Nalbant P, Abell A,
Johnson GL, Hahn KM, Danuser G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 N. Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2010 Oct;11(10):680-1.

The GTPases Rac1, RhoA and Cdc42 act together to control cytoskeleton dynamics.
Recent biosensor studies have shown that all three GTPases are activated at the
front of migrating cells, and biochemical evidence suggests that they may
regulate one another: Cdc42 can activate Rac1 (ref. 8), and Rac1 and RhoA are
mutually inhibitory. However, their spatiotemporal coordination, at the seconds
and single-micrometre dimensions typical of individual protrusion events, remains
unknown. Here we examine GTPase coordination in mouse embryonic fibroblasts both 
through simultaneous visualization of two GTPase biosensors and using a
'computational multiplexing' approach capable of defining the relationships
between multiple protein activities visualized in separate experiments. We found 
that RhoA is activated at the cell edge synchronous with edge advancement,
whereas Cdc42 and Rac1 are activated 2 micro-m behind the edge with a delay of 40
s. This indicates that Rac1 and RhoA operate antagonistically through spatial
separation and precise timing, and that RhoA has a role in the initial events of 
protrusion, whereas Rac1 and Cdc42 activate pathways implicated in reinforcement 
and stabilization of newly expanded protrusions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08242 
PMCID: PMC2885353
PMID: 19693013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):125-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08259. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

Direct observation of the binding state of the kinesin head to the microtubule.

Guydosh NR(1), Block SM.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Program, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The dimeric motor protein kinesin-1 converts chemical energy from ATP hydrolysis 
into mechanical work used to transport cargo along microtubules. Cargo attached
to the kinesin stalk moves processively in 8-nm increments as its twin motor
domains (heads) carry out an asymmetric, 'hand-over-hand' walk. The extent of
individual head interactions with the microtubule during stepping, however,
remains controversial. A major experimental limitation has been the lack of a
means to monitor the attachment of an individual head to the microtubule during
movement, necessitating indirect approaches. Here we report the development of a 
single-molecule assay that can directly report head binding in a walking kinesin 
molecule, and show that only a single head is bound to the microtubule between
steps at low ATP concentrations. A bead was linked to one of the two kinesin
heads by means of a short DNA tether and used to apply rapidly alternating
hindering and assisting loads with an optical trap. The time-dependent difference
between forwards and backwards displacements of the bead alternated between two
discrete values during stepping, corresponding to those intervals when the linked
head adopted a bound or an unbound state. The linked head could only rebind the
microtubule once ATP had become bound to its partner head.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08259 
PMCID: PMC2859689
PMID: 19693012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature08268. Epub 2009 Aug 19.

Antioxidant and oncogene rescue of metabolic defects caused by loss of matrix
attachment.

Schafer ZT(1), Grassian AR, Song L, Jiang Z, Gerhart-Hines Z, Irie HY, Gao S,
Puigserver P, Brugge JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):44-5.

Normal epithelial cells require matrix attachment for survival, and the ability
of tumour cells to survive outside their natural extracellular matrix (ECM)
niches is dependent on acquisition of anchorage independence. Although apoptosis 
is the most rapid mechanism for eliminating cells lacking appropriate ECM
attachment, recent reports suggest that non-apoptotic death processes prevent
survival when apoptosis is inhibited in matrix-deprived cells. Here we
demonstrate that detachment of mammary epithelial cells from ECM causes an ATP
deficiency owing to the loss of glucose transport. Overexpression of ERBB2
rescues the ATP deficiency by restoring glucose uptake through stabilization of
EGFR and phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K) activation, and this rescue is
dependent on glucose-stimulated flux through the antioxidant-generating pentose
phosphate pathway. Notably, we found that the ATP deficiency could be rescued by 
antioxidant treatment without rescue of glucose uptake. This rescue was found to 
be dependent on stimulation of fatty acid oxidation, which is inhibited by
detachment-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS). The significance of these
findings was supported by evidence of an increase in ROS in matrix-deprived cells
in the luminal space of mammary acini, and the discovery that antioxidants
facilitate the survival of these cells and enhance anchorage-independent colony
formation. These results show both the importance of matrix attachment in
regulating metabolic activity and an unanticipated mechanism for cell survival in
altered matrix environments by antioxidant restoration of ATP generation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08268 
PMCID: PMC2931797
PMID: 19693011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):60-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08394.

Structures of the tRNA export factor in the nuclear and cytosolic states.

Cook AG(1), Fukuhara N, Jinek M, Conti E.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Cell Biology, MPI for Biochemistry, Am Klopferspitz 18, 82152
Martinsried, Germany.

Transfer RNAs are among the most ubiquitous molecules in cells, central to
decoding information from messenger RNAs on translating ribosomes. In eukaryotic 
cells, tRNAs are actively transported from their site of synthesis in the nucleus
to their site of function in the cytosol. This is mediated by a dedicated
nucleo-cytoplasmic transport factor of the karyopherin-beta family (Xpot, also
known as Los1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Here we report the 3.2 A resolution
structure of Schizosaccharomyces pombe Xpot in complex with tRNA and RanGTP, and 
the 3.1 A structure of unbound Xpot, revealing both nuclear and cytosolic
snapshots of this transport factor. Xpot undergoes a large conformational change 
on binding cargo, wrapping around the tRNA and, in particular, binding to the
tRNA 5' and 3' ends. The binding mode explains how Xpot can recognize all mature 
tRNAs in the cell and yet distinguish them from those that have not been properly
processed, thus coupling tRNA export to quality control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08394 
PMID: 19680239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):114-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08247. Epub 2009 Aug 12.

Direct activation of protein kinases by unanchored polyubiquitin chains.

Xia ZP(1), Sun L, Chen X, Pineda G, Jiang X, Adhikari A, Zeng W, Chen ZJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas, Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390-9148, USA.

TRAF6 is a ubiquitin ligase that is essential for the activation of NF-kappaB and
MAP kinases in several signalling pathways, including those emanating from the
interleukin 1 and Toll-like receptors. TRAF6 functions together with a
ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme complex consisting of UBC13 (also known as UBE2N)
and UEV1A (UBE2V1) to catalyse Lys 63-linked polyubiquitination, which activates 
the TAK1 (also known as MAP3K7) kinase complex. TAK1 in turn phosphorylates and
activates IkappaB kinase (IKK), leading to the activation of NF-kappaB. Although 
several proteins are known to be polyubiquitinated in the IL1R and Toll-like
receptor pathways, it is not clear whether ubiquitination of any of these
proteins is important for TAK1 or IKK activation. By reconstituting TAK1
activation in vitro using purified proteins, here we show that free Lys 63
polyubiquitin chains, which are not conjugated to any target protein, directly
activate TAK1 by binding to the ubiquitin receptor TAB2 (also known as
MAP3K7IP2). This binding leads to autophosphorylation and activation of TAK1.
Furthermore, we found that unanchored polyubiquitin chains synthesized by TRAF6
and UBCH5C (also known as UBE2D3) activate the IKK complex. Disassembly of the
polyubiquitin chains by deubiquitination enzymes prevented TAK1 and IKK
activation. These results indicate that unanchored polyubiquitin chains directly 
activate TAK1 and IKK, suggesting a new mechanism of protein kinase regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08247 
PMCID: PMC2747300
PMID: 19675569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):91-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08310.

Adult mice generated from induced pluripotent stem cells.

Boland MJ(1), Hazen JL, Nazor KL, Rodriguez AR, Gifford W, Martin G, Kupriyanov
S, Baldwin KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):341.

Recent landmark experiments have shown that transient overexpression of a small
number of transcription factors can reprogram differentiated cells into induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells that resemble embryonic stem (ES) cells. These iPS
cells hold great promise for medicine because they have the potential to generate
patient-specific cell types for cell replacement therapy and produce in vitro
models of disease, without requiring embryonic tissues or oocytes. Although
current iPS cell lines resemble ES cells, they have not passed the most stringent
test of pluripotency by generating full-term or adult mice in tetraploid
complementation assays, raising questions as to whether they are sufficiently
potent to generate all of the cell types in an organism. Whether this difference 
between iPS and ES cells reflects intrinsic limitations of direct reprogramming
is not known. Here we report fertile adult mice derived entirely from iPS cells
that we generated by inducible genetic reprogramming of mouse embryonic
fibroblasts. Producing adult mice derived entirely from a reprogrammed fibroblast
shows that all features of a differentiated cell can be restored to an embryonic 
level of pluripotency without exposure to unknown ooplasmic factors. Comparing
these fully pluripotent iPS cell lines to less developmentally potent lines may
reveal molecular markers of different pluripotent states. Furthermore, mice
derived entirely from iPS cells will provide a new resource to assess the
functional and genomic stability of cells and tissues derived from iPS cells,
which is important to validate their utility in cell replacement therapy and
research applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08310 
PMID: 19672243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 2009 Sep 3;461(7260):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08267.

iPS cells produce viable mice through tetraploid complementation.

Zhao XY(1), Li W, Lv Z, Liu L, Tong M, Hai T, Hao J, Guo CL, Ma QW, Wang L, Zeng 
F, Zhou Q.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):341.

Since the initial description of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells created by 
forced expression of four transcription factors in mouse fibroblasts, the
technique has been used to generate embryonic stem (ES)-cell-like pluripotent
cells from a variety of cell types in other species, including primates and rat. 
It has become a popular means to reprogram somatic genomes into an embryonic-like
pluripotent state, and a preferred alternative to somatic-cell nuclear transfer
and somatic-cell fusion with ES cells. However, iPS cell reprogramming remains
slow and inefficient. Notably, no live animals have been produced by the most
stringent tetraploid complementation assay, indicative of a failure to create
fully pluripotent cells. Here we report the generation of several iPS cell lines 
that are capable of generating viable, fertile live-born progeny by tetraploid
complementation. These iPS cells maintain a pluripotent potential that is very
close to ES cells generated from in vivo or nuclear transfer embryos. We
demonstrate the practicality of using iPS cells as useful tools for the
characterization of cellular reprogramming and developmental potency, and confirm
that iPS cells can attain true pluripotency that is similar to that of ES cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08267 
PMID: 19672241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1117-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08264.

Surface hydrophobin prevents immune recognition of airborne fungal spores.

Aimanianda V(1), Bayry J, Bozza S, Kniemeyer O, Perruccio K, Elluru SR, Clavaud
C, Paris S, Brakhage AA, Kaveri SV, Romani L, Latgé JP.

Author information: 
(1)Unité des Aspergillus, Institut Pasteur, Paris F-75015, France.

The air we breathe is filled with thousands of fungal spores (conidia) per cubic 
metre, which in certain composting environments can easily exceed 10(9) per cubic
metre. They originate from more than a hundred fungal species belonging mainly to
the genera Cladosporium, Penicillium, Alternaria and Aspergillus. Although these 
conidia contain many antigens and allergens, it is not known why airborne fungal 
microflora do not activate the host innate immune cells continuously and do not
induce detrimental inflammatory responses following their inhalation. Here we
show that the surface layer on the dormant conidia masks their recognition by the
immune system and hence prevents immune response. To explore this, we used
several fungal members of the airborne microflora, including the human
opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus, in in vitro assays with
dendritic cells and alveolar macrophages and in in vivo murine experiments. In A.
fumigatus, this surface 'rodlet layer' is composed of hydrophobic RodA protein
covalently bound to the conidial cell wall through
glycosylphosphatidylinositol-remnants. RodA extracted from conidia of A.
fumigatus was immunologically inert and did not induce dendritic cell or alveolar
macrophage maturation and activation, and failed to activate helper T-cell immune
responses in vivo. The removal of this surface 'rodlet/hydrophobin layer' either 
chemically (using hydrofluoric acid), genetically (DeltarodA mutant) or
biologically (germination) resulted in conidial morphotypes inducing immune
activation. All these observations show that the hydrophobic rodlet layer on the 
conidial cell surface immunologically silences airborne moulds.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08264 
PMID: 19713928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1113-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08233.

2,000-year-long temperature and hydrology reconstructions from the Indo-Pacific
warm pool.

Oppo DW(1), Rosenthal Y, Linsley BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA. doppo@whoi.edu

Northern Hemisphere surface temperature reconstructions suggest that the late
twentieth century was warmer than any other time during the past 500 years and
possibly any time during the past 1,300 years (refs 1, 2). These temperature
reconstructions are based largely on terrestrial records from extra-tropical or
high-elevation sites; however, global average surface temperature changes closely
follow those of the global tropics, which are 75% ocean. In particular, the
tropical Indo-Pacific warm pool (IPWP) represents a major heat reservoir that
both influences global atmospheric circulation and responds to remote northern
high-latitude forcings. Here we present a decadally resolved continuous sea
surface temperature (SST) reconstruction from the IPWP that spans the past two
millennia and overlaps the instrumental record, enabling both a direct comparison
of proxy data to the instrumental record and an evaluation of past changes in the
context of twentieth century trends. Our record from the Makassar Strait,
Indonesia, exhibits trends that are similar to a recent Northern Hemisphere
temperature reconstruction. Reconstructed SST was, however, within error of
modern values from about ad 1000 to ad 1250, towards the end of the Medieval Warm
Period. SSTs during the Little Ice Age (approximately ad 1550-1850) were
variable, and approximately 0.5 to 1 degrees C colder than modern values during
the coldest intervals. A companion reconstruction of delta(18)O of sea water-a
sea surface salinity and hydrology indicator-indicates a tight coupling with the 
East Asian monsoon system and remote control of IPWP hydrology on
centennial-millennial timescales, rather than a dominant influence from local SST
variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08233 
PMID: 19713927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1098-100. doi: 10.1038/nature08245.

An orbital period of 0.94 days for the hot-Jupiter planet WASP-18b.

Hellier C(1), Anderson DR, Cameron AC, Gillon M, Hebb L, Maxted PF, Queloz D,
Smalley B, Triaud AH, West RG, Wilson DM, Bentley SJ, Enoch B, Horne K, Irwin J, 
Lister TA, Mayor M, Parley N, Pepe F, Pollacco DL, Segransan D, Udry S, Wheatley 
PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysics Group, Keele University, Staffordshire, ST5 5BG, UK.
ch@astro.keele.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1086-7.

The 'hot Jupiters' that abound in lists of known extrasolar planets are thought
to have formed far from their host stars, but migrate inwards through
interactions with the proto-planetary disk from which they were born, or by an
alternative mechanism such as planet-planet scattering. The hot Jupiters closest 
to their parent stars, at orbital distances of only approximately 0.02
astronomical units, have strong tidal interactions, and systems such as
OGLE-TR-56 have been suggested as tests of tidal dissipation theory. Here we
report the discovery of planet WASP-18b with an orbital period of 0.94 days and a
mass of ten Jupiter masses (10 M(Jup)), resulting in a tidal interaction an order
of magnitude stronger than that of planet OGLE-TR-56b. Under the assumption that 
the tidal-dissipation parameter Q of the host star is of the order of 10(6), as
measured for Solar System bodies and binary stars and as often applied to
extrasolar planets, WASP-18b will be spiralling inwards on a timescale less than 
a thousandth that of the lifetime of its host star. Therefore either WASP-18 is
in a rare, exceptionally short-lived state, or the tidal dissipation in this
system (and possibly other hot-Jupiter systems) must be much weaker than in the
Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08245 
PMID: 19713926 


311. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1110-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08318. Epub 2009 Aug 16.

Demonstration of a spaser-based nanolaser.

Noginov MA(1), Zhu G, Belgrave AM, Bakker R, Shalaev VM, Narimanov EE, Stout S,
Herz E, Suteewong T, Wiesner U.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Materials Research, Norfolk State University, Norfolk, Virginia
23504, USA. mnoginov@nsu.edu

Comment in
    Nat Nanotechnol. 2009 Nov;4(11):706-7.

One of the most rapidly growing areas of physics and nanotechnology focuses on
plasmonic effects on the nanometre scale, with possible applications ranging from
sensing and biomedicine to imaging and information technology. However, the full 
development of nanoplasmonics is hindered by the lack of devices that can
generate coherent plasmonic fields. It has been proposed that in the same way as 
a laser generates stimulated emission of coherent photons, a 'spaser' could
generate stimulated emission of surface plasmons (oscillations of free electrons 
in metallic nanostructures) in resonating metallic nanostructures adjacent to a
gain medium. But attempts to realize a spaser face the challenge of absorption
loss in metal, which is particularly strong at optical frequencies. The
suggestion to compensate loss by optical gain in localized and propagating
surface plasmons has been implemented recently and even allowed the amplification
of propagating surface plasmons in open paths. Still, these experiments and the
reported enhancement of the stimulated emission of dye molecules in the presence 
of metallic nanoparticles lack the feedback mechanism present in a spaser. Here
we show that 44-nm-diameter nanoparticles with a gold core and dye-doped silica
shell allow us to completely overcome the loss of localized surface plasmons by
gain and realize a spaser. And in accord with the notion that only surface
plasmon resonances are capable of squeezing optical frequency oscillations into a
nanoscopic cavity to enable a true nanolaser, we show that outcoupling of surface
plasmon oscillations to photonic modes at a wavelength of 531 nm makes our system
the smallest nanolaser reported to date-and to our knowledge the first operating 
at visible wavelengths. We anticipate that now it has been realized
experimentally, the spaser will advance our fundamental understanding of
nanoplasmonics and the development of practical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08318 
PMID: 19684572 


312. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1132-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08235. Epub 2009 Aug 9.

Suppression of induced pluripotent stem cell generation by the p53-p21 pathway.

Hong H(1), Takahashi K, Ichisaka T, Aoi T, Kanagawa O, Nakagawa M, Okita K,
Yamanaka S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA), Institute for Integrated 
Cell-Material Sciences, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1085-6.

Induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells can be generated from somatic cells by the
introduction of Oct3/4 (also known as Pou5f1), Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc, in mouse and
in human. The efficiency of this process, however, is low. Pluripotency can be
induced without c-Myc, but with even lower efficiency. A p53 (also known as TP53 
in humans and Trp53 in mice) short-interfering RNA (siRNA) was recently shown to 
promote human iPS cell generation, but the specificity and mechanisms remain to
be determined. Here we report that up to 10% of transduced mouse embryonic
fibroblasts lacking p53 became iPS cells, even without the Myc retrovirus. The
p53 deletion also promoted the induction of integration-free mouse iPS cells with
plasmid transfection. Furthermore, in the p53-null background, iPS cells were
generated from terminally differentiated T lymphocytes. The suppression of p53
also increased the efficiency of human iPS cell generation. DNA microarray
analyses identified 34 p53-regulated genes that are common in mouse and human
fibroblasts. Functional analyses of these genes demonstrate that the p53-p21
pathway serves as a barrier not only in tumorigenicity, but also in iPS cell
generation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08235 
PMCID: PMC2917235
PMID: 19668191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1145-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08285. Epub 2009 Aug 9.

Immortalization eliminates a roadblock during cellular reprogramming into iPS
cells.

Utikal J(1), Polo JM, Stadtfeld M, Maherali N, Kulalert W, Walsh RM, Khalil A,
Rheinwald JG, Hochedlinger K.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Center for Regenerative
Medicine, Harvard Stem Cell Institute, 185 Cambridge Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1085-6.

The overexpression of defined transcription factors in somatic cells results in
their reprogramming into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. The extremely low 
efficiency and slow kinetics of in vitro reprogramming suggest that further rare 
events are required to generate iPS cells. The nature and identity of these
events, however, remain elusive. We noticed that the reprogramming potential of
primary murine fibroblasts into iPS cells decreases after serial passaging and
the concomitant onset of senescence. Consistent with the notion that loss of
replicative potential provides a barrier for reprogramming, here we show that
cells with low endogenous p19(Arf) (encoded by the Ink4a/Arf locus, also known as
Cdkn2a locus) protein levels and immortal fibroblasts deficient in components of 
the Arf-Trp53 pathway yield iPS cell colonies with up to threefold faster
kinetics and at a significantly higher efficiency than wild-type cells, endowing 
almost every somatic cell with the potential to form iPS cells. Notably, the
acute genetic ablation of Trp53 (also known as p53) in cellular subpopulations
that normally fail to reprogram rescues their ability to produce iPS cells. Our
results show that the acquisition of immortality is a crucial and rate-limiting
step towards the establishment of a pluripotent state in somatic cells and
underscore the similarities between induced pluripotency and tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08285 
PMCID: PMC3987892
PMID: 19668190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1149-53. doi: 10.1038/nature08287. Epub 2009 Aug 9.

A p53-mediated DNA damage response limits reprogramming to ensure iPS cell
genomic integrity.

Marión RM(1), Strati K, Li H, Murga M, Blanco R, Ortega S, Fernandez-Capetillo O,
Serrano M, Blasco MA.

Author information: 
(1)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National
Cancer Research Centre (CNIO), Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, Madrid E-28029,
Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1085-6.

The reprogramming of differentiated cells to pluripotent cells (induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells) is known to be an inefficient process. We recently 
reported that cells with short telomeres cannot be reprogrammed to iPS cells
despite their normal proliferation rates, probably reflecting the existence of
'reprogramming barriers' that abort the reprogramming of cells with uncapped
telomeres. Here we show that p53 (also known as Trp53 in mice and TP53 in humans)
is critically involved in preventing the reprogramming of cells carrying various 
types of DNA damage, including short telomeres, DNA repair deficiencies, or
exogenously inflicted DNA damage. Reprogramming in the presence of pre-existing, 
but tolerated, DNA damage is aborted by the activation of a DNA damage response
and p53-dependent apoptosis. Abrogation of p53 allows efficient reprogramming in 
the face of DNA damage and the generation of iPS cells carrying persistent DNA
damage and chromosomal aberrations. These observations indicate that during
reprogramming cells increase their intolerance to different types of DNA damage
and that p53 is critical in preventing the generation of human and mouse
pluripotent cells from suboptimal parental cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08287 
PMCID: PMC3624089
PMID: 19668189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1136-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08290. Epub 2009 Aug 9.

The Ink4/Arf locus is a barrier for iPS cell reprogramming.

Li H(1), Collado M, Villasante A, Strati K, Ortega S, Cañamero M, Blasco MA,
Serrano M.

Author information: 
(1)Tumor Suppression Group, Spanish National Cancer Research Centre (CNIO), 3
Melchor Fernandez Almagro Street, Madrid E-28029, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1085-6.

The mechanisms involved in the reprogramming of differentiated cells into induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells by the three transcription factors Oct4 (also known 
as Pou5f1), Klf4 and Sox2 remain poorly understood. The Ink4/Arf locus comprises 
the Cdkn2a-Cdkn2b genes encoding three potent tumour suppressors, namely
p16(Ink4a), p19(Arf) and p15(Ink4b), which are basally expressed in
differentiated cells and upregulated by aberrant mitogenic signals. Here we show 
that the locus is completely silenced in iPS cells, as well as in embryonic stem 
(ES) cells, acquiring the epigenetic marks of a bivalent chromatin domain, and
retaining the ability to be reactivated after differentiation. Cell culture
conditions during reprogramming enhance the expression of the Ink4/Arf locus,
further highlighting the importance of silencing the locus to allow proliferation
and reprogramming. Indeed, the three factors together repress the Ink4/Arf locus 
soon after their expression and concomitant with the appearance of the first
molecular markers of 'stemness'. This downregulation also occurs in cells
carrying the oncoprotein large-T, which functionally inactivates the pathways
regulated by the Ink4/Arf locus, thus indicating that the silencing of the locus 
is intrinsic to reprogramming and not the result of a selective process. Genetic 
inhibition of the Ink4/Arf locus has a profound positive effect on the efficiency
of iPS cell generation, increasing both the kinetics of reprogramming and the
number of emerging iPS cell colonies. In murine cells, Arf, rather than Ink4a, is
the main barrier to reprogramming by activation of p53 (encoded by Trp53) and p21
(encoded by Cdkn1a); whereas, in human fibroblasts, INK4a is more important than 
ARF. Furthermore, organismal ageing upregulates the Ink4/Arf locus and,
accordingly, reprogramming is less efficient in cells from old organisms, but
this defect can be rescued by inhibiting the locus with a short hairpin RNA. All 
together, we conclude that the silencing of Ink4/Arf locus is rate-limiting for
reprogramming, and its transient inhibition may significantly improve the
generation of iPS cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08290 
PMCID: PMC3578184
PMID: 19668188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08308. Epub 2009 Aug 9.

Topological surface states protected from backscattering by chiral spin texture.

Roushan P(1), Seo J, Parker CV, Hor YS, Hsieh D, Qian D, Richardella A, Hasan MZ,
Cava RJ, Yazdani A.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories & Department of Physics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1090-1.

Topological insulators are a new class of insulators in which a bulk gap for
electronic excitations is generated because of the strong spin-orbit coupling
inherent to these systems. These materials are distinguished from ordinary
insulators by the presence of gapless metallic surface states, resembling chiral 
edge modes in quantum Hall systems, but with unconventional spin textures. A key 
predicted feature of such spin-textured boundary states is their insensitivity to
spin-independent scattering, which is thought to protect them from backscattering
and localization. Recently, experimental and theoretical efforts have provided
strong evidence for the existence of both two- and three-dimensional classes of
such topological insulator materials in semiconductor quantum well structures and
several bismuth-based compounds, but so far experiments have not probed the
sensitivity of these chiral states to scattering. Here we use scanning tunnelling
spectroscopy and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy to visualize the
gapless surface states in the three-dimensional topological insulator
Bi(1-x)Sb(x), and examine in detail the influence of scattering from disorder
caused by random alloying in this compound. We show that, despite strong atomic
scale disorder, backscattering between states of opposite momentum and opposite
spin is absent. Our observations demonstrate that the chiral nature of these
states protects the spin of the carriers. These chiral states are therefore
potentially useful for spin-based electronics, in which long spin coherence is
critical, and also for quantum computing applications, where topological
protection can enable fault-tolerant information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08308 
PMID: 19668187 


317. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1140-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08311. Epub 2009 Aug 9.

Linking the p53 tumour suppressor pathway to somatic cell reprogramming.

Kawamura T(1), Suzuki J, Wang YV, Menendez S, Morera LB, Raya A, Wahl GM, Izpisúa
Belmonte JC.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1085-6.

Reprogramming somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells has been
accomplished by expressing pluripotency factors and oncogenes, but the low
frequency and tendency to induce malignant transformation compromise the clinical
utility of this powerful approach. We address both issues by investigating the
mechanisms limiting reprogramming efficiency in somatic cells. Here we show that 
reprogramming factors can activate the p53 (also known as Trp53 in mice, TP53 in 
humans) pathway. Reducing signalling to p53 by expressing a mutated version of
one of its negative regulators, by deleting or knocking down p53 or its target
gene, p21 (also known as Cdkn1a), or by antagonizing reprogramming-induced
apoptosis in mouse fibroblasts increases reprogramming efficiency. Notably,
decreasing p53 protein levels enabled fibroblasts to give rise to iPS cells
capable of generating germline-transmitting chimaeric mice using only Oct4 (also 
known as Pou5f1) and Sox2. Furthermore, silencing of p53 significantly increased 
the reprogramming efficiency of human somatic cells. These results provide
insights into reprogramming mechanisms and suggest new routes to more efficient
reprogramming while minimizing the use of oncogenes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08311 
PMCID: PMC2735889
PMID: 19668186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1093-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08243. Epub 2009 Aug 5.

Developmental and species-divergent globin switching are driven by BCL11A.

Sankaran VG(1), Xu J, Ragoczy T, Ippolito GC, Walkley CR, Maika SD, Fujiwara Y,
Ito M, Groudine M, Bender MA, Tucker PW, Orkin SH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston and Department of 
Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Stem Cell Institute,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The contribution of changes in cis-regulatory elements or trans-acting factors to
interspecies differences in gene expression is not well understood. The mammalian
beta-globin loci have served as a model for gene regulation during development.
Transgenic mice containing the human beta-globin locus, consisting of the linked 
embryonic (epsilon), fetal (gamma) and adult (beta) genes, have been used as a
system to investigate the temporal switch from fetal to adult haemoglobin, as
occurs in humans. Here we show that the human gamma-globin (HBG) genes in these
mice behave as murine embryonic globin genes, revealing a limitation of the model
and demonstrating that critical differences in the trans-acting milieu have
arisen during mammalian evolution. We show that the expression of BCL11A, a
repressor of human gamma-globin expression identified by genome-wide association 
studies, differs between mouse and human. Developmental silencing of the mouse
embryonic globin and human gamma-globin genes fails to occur in mice in the
absence of BCL11A. Thus, BCL11A is a critical mediator of species-divergent
globin switching. By comparing the ontogeny of beta-globin gene regulation in
mice and humans, we have shown that alterations in the expression of a
trans-acting factor constitute a critical driver of gene expression changes
during evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08243 
PMCID: PMC3749913
PMID: 19657335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1127-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08248. Epub 2009 Aug 5.

L1 retrotransposition in human neural progenitor cells.

Coufal NG(1), Garcia-Perez JL, Peng GE, Yeo GW, Mu Y, Lovci MT, Morell M, O'Shea 
KS, Moran JV, Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1087-8.

Long interspersed element 1 (LINE-1 or L1) retrotransposons have markedly
affected the human genome. L1s must retrotranspose in the germ line or during
early development to ensure their evolutionary success, yet the extent to which
this process affects somatic cells is poorly understood. We previously
demonstrated that engineered human L1s can retrotranspose in adult rat
hippocampus progenitor cells in vitro and in the mouse brain in vivo. Here we
demonstrate that neural progenitor cells isolated from human fetal brain and
derived from human embryonic stem cells support the retrotransposition of
engineered human L1s in vitro. Furthermore, we developed a quantitative multiplex
polymerase chain reaction that detected an increase in the copy number of
endogenous L1s in the hippocampus, and in several regions of adult human brains, 
when compared to the copy number of endogenous L1s in heart or liver genomic DNAs
from the same donor. These data suggest that de novo L1 retrotransposition events
may occur in the human brain and, in principle, have the potential to contribute 
to individual somatic mosaicism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08248 
PMCID: PMC2909034
PMID: 19657334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1159-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08206. Epub 2009 Jul
29.

Riboflavin kinase couples TNF receptor 1 to NADPH oxidase.

Yazdanpanah B(1), Wiegmann K, Tchikov V, Krut O, Pongratz C, Schramm M,
Kleinridders A, Wunderlich T, Kashkar H, Utermöhlen O, Brüning JC, Schütze S,
Krönke M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Hygiene, University of
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by NADPH oxidase function as defence and
signalling molecules related to innate immunity and various cellular responses.
The activation of NADPH oxidase in response to plasma membrane receptor
activation depends on the phosphorylation of cytoplasmic oxidase subunits, their 
translocation to membranes and the assembly of all NADPH oxidase components.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a prominent stimulus of ROS production, but the
molecular mechanisms by which TNF activates NADPH oxidase are poorly understood. 
Here we identify riboflavin kinase (RFK, formerly known as flavokinase) as a
previously unrecognized TNF-receptor-1 (TNFR1)-binding protein that physically
and functionally couples TNFR1 to NADPH oxidase. In mouse and human cells, RFK
binds to both the TNFR1-death domain and to p22(phox), the common subunit of
NADPH oxidase isoforms. RFK-mediated bridging of TNFR1 and p22(phox) is a
prerequisite for TNF-induced but not for Toll-like-receptor-induced ROS
production. Exogenous flavin mononucleotide or FAD was able to substitute fully
for TNF stimulation of NADPH oxidase in RFK-deficient cells. RFK is rate-limiting
in the synthesis of FAD, an essential prosthetic group of NADPH oxidase. The
results suggest that TNF, through the activation of RFK, enhances the
incorporation of FAD in NADPH oxidase enzymes, a critical step for the assembly
and activation of NADPH oxidase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08206 
PMID: 19641494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1154-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08262. Epub 2009 Jul 29.

Initiation of myoblast to brown fat switch by a PRDM16-C/EBP-beta transcriptional
complex.

Kajimura S(1), Seale P, Kubota K, Lunsford E, Frangioni JV, Gygi SP, Spiegelman
BM.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, 44 Binney Street,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Brown adipose cells are specialized to dissipate chemical energy in the form of
heat, as a physiological defence against cold and obesity. PRDM16 (PR domain
containing 16) is a 140 kDa zinc finger protein that robustly induces brown fat
determination and differentiation. Recent data suggests that brown fat cells
arise in vivo from a Myf5-positive, myoblastic lineage by the action of PRDM16
(ref. 3); however, the molecular mechanisms responsible for this developmental
switch is unclear. Here we show that PRDM16 forms a transcriptional complex with 
the active form of C/EBP-beta (also known as LAP), acting as a critical molecular
unit that controls the cell fate switch from myoblastic precursors to brown fat
cells. Forced expression of PRDM16 and C/EBP-beta is sufficient to induce a fully
functional brown fat program in naive fibroblastic cells, including skin
fibroblasts from mouse and man. Transplantation of fibroblasts expressing these
two factors into mice gives rise to an ectopic fat pad with the morphological and
biochemical characteristics of brown fat. Like endogenous brown fat, this
synthetic brown fat tissue acts as a sink for glucose uptake, as determined by
positron emission tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose. These data indicate that
the PRDM16-C/EBP-beta complex initiates brown fat formation from myoblastic
precursors, and may provide opportunities for the development of new therapeutics
for obesity and type-2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08262 
PMCID: PMC2754867
PMID: 19641492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1101-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08234. Epub 2009 Jul 20.

A tunable topological insulator in the spin helical Dirac transport regime.

Hsieh D(1), Xia Y, Qian D, Wray L, Dil JH, Meier F, Osterwalder J, Patthey L,
Checkelsky JG, Ong NP, Fedorov AV, Lin H, Bansil A, Grauer D, Hor YS, Cava RJ,
Hasan MZ.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories of Physics, Department of Physics, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1090-1.

Helical Dirac fermions-charge carriers that behave as massless relativistic
particles with an intrinsic angular momentum (spin) locked to its translational
momentum-are proposed to be the key to realizing fundamentally new phenomena in
condensed matter physics. Prominent examples include the anomalous quantization
of magneto-electric coupling, half-fermion states that are their own
antiparticle, and charge fractionalization in a Bose-Einstein condensate, all of 
which are not possible with conventional Dirac fermions of the graphene variety. 
Helical Dirac fermions have so far remained elusive owing to the lack of
necessary spin-sensitive measurements and because such fermions are forbidden to 
exist in conventional materials harbouring relativistic electrons, such as
graphene or bismuth. It has recently been proposed that helical Dirac fermions
may exist at the edges of certain types of topologically ordered
insulators-materials with a bulk insulating gap of spin-orbit origin and surface 
states protected against scattering by time-reversal symmetry-and that their
peculiar properties may be accessed provided the insulator is tuned into the
so-called topological transport regime. However, helical Dirac fermions have not 
been observed in existing topological insulators. Here we report the realization 
and characterization of a tunable topological insulator in a bismuth-based class 
of material by combining spin-imaging and momentum-resolved spectroscopies, bulk 
charge compensation, Hall transport measurements and surface quantum control. Our
results reveal a spin-momentum locked Dirac cone carrying a non-trivial Berry's
phase that is nearly 100 per cent spin-polarized, which exhibits a tunable
topological fermion density in the vicinity of the Kramers point and can be
driven to the long-sought topological spin transport regime. The observed
topological nodal state is shown to be protected even up to 300 K. Our
demonstration of room-temperature topological order and non-trivial spin-texture 
in stoichiometric Bi(2)Se(3).M(x) (M(x) indicates surface doping or gating
control) paves the way for future graphene-like studies of topological
insulators, and applications of the observed spin-polarized edge channels in
spintronic and computing technologies possibly at room temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08234 
PMID: 19620959 


323. Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1122-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08226. Epub 2009 Jul 13.

EBI2 mediates B cell segregation between the outer and centre follicle.

Pereira JP(1), Kelly LM, Xu Y, Cyster JG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of California San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

B cell follicles are specialized microenvironments that support events necessary 
for humoral immunity. After antigen encounter, activated B cells initially seek
T-cell help at the follicle-T-zone boundary and then move to interfollicular and 
T-zone distal (outer) regions of the follicle. Subsequently, some cells move to
the follicle centre, become germinal centre B cells and undergo antibody affinity
maturation. Although germinal centres within follicles were described in 1885
(ref. 12), the molecular cues mediating segregation of B cells between the outer 
and centre follicle have remained undefined. Here we present a role for the
orphan G-protein-coupled receptor, Epstein-Barr virus induced molecule-2 (EBI2,
also known as GPR183), in this process. EBI2 is expressed in mature B cells and
increases in expression early after activation, before being downregulated in
germinal centre B cells. EBI2 deficiency in mice led to a reduction in the early 
antibody response to a T-dependent antigen. EBI2-deficient B cells failed to move
to the outer follicle at day 2 of activation, and instead were found in the
follicle centre, whereas EBI2 overexpression was sufficient to promote B cell
localization to the outer follicle. In mixed bone marrow chimaeras,
EBI2-deficient B cells phenocopied germinal centre B cells in preferentially
localizing to the follicle centre. When downregulation of EBI2 in wild-type B
cells was antagonized, participation in the germinal centre reaction was
impaired. These studies identify an important role for EBI2 in promoting B cell
localization in the outer follicle, and show that differential expression of this
receptor helps position B cells appropriately for mounting T-dependent antibody
responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08226 
PMCID: PMC2809436
PMID: 19597478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1026-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08258.

The ethylene response factors SNORKEL1 and SNORKEL2 allow rice to adapt to deep
water.

Hattori Y(1), Nagai K, Furukawa S, Song XJ, Kawano R, Sakakibara H, Wu J,
Matsumoto T, Yoshimura A, Kitano H, Matsuoka M, Mori H, Ashikari M.

Author information: 
(1)Bioscience and Biotechnology Center, Nagoya University, Nagoya 464-8601,
Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):959-60.

Living organisms must acquire new biological functions to adapt to changing and
hostile environments. Deepwater rice has evolved and adapted to flooding by
acquiring the ability to significantly elongate its internodes, which have hollow
structures and function as snorkels to allow gas exchange with the atmosphere,
and thus prevent drowning. Many physiological studies have shown that the
phytohormones ethylene, gibberellin and abscisic acid are involved in this
response, but the gene(s) responsible for this trait has not been identified.
Here we show the molecular mechanism of deepwater response through the
identification of the genes SNORKEL1 and SNORKEL2, which trigger deepwater
response by encoding ethylene response factors involved in ethylene signalling.
Under deepwater conditions, ethylene accumulates in the plant and induces
expression of these two genes. The products of SNORKEL1 and SNORKEL2 then trigger
remarkable internode elongation via gibberellin. We also demonstrate that the
introduction of three quantitative trait loci from deepwater rice into
non-deepwater rice enabled the latter to become deepwater rice. This discovery
will contribute to rice breeding in lowland areas that are frequently flooded
during the rainy season.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08258 
PMID: 19693083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1016-20. doi: 10.1038/nature08236.

Neurotransmission selectively regulates synapse formation in parallel circuits in
vivo.

Kerschensteiner D(1), Morgan JL, Parker ED, Lewis RM, Wong RO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. KerschensteinerD@vision.wustl.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):961-3.

Activity is thought to guide the patterning of synaptic connections in the
developing nervous system. Specifically, differences in the activity of
converging inputs are thought to cause the elimination of synapses from less
active inputs and increase connectivity with more active inputs. Here we present 
findings that challenge the generality of this notion and offer a new view of the
role of activity in synapse development. To imbalance neurotransmission from
different sets of inputs in vivo, we generated transgenic mice in which ON but
not OFF types of bipolar cells in the retina express tetanus toxin (TeNT). During
development, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) select between ON and OFF bipolar cell
inputs (ON or OFF RGCs) or establish a similar number of synapses with both on
separate dendritic arborizations (ON-OFF RGCs). In TeNT retinas, ON RGCs
correctly selected the silenced ON bipolar cell inputs over the transmitting OFF 
bipolar cells, but were connected with them through fewer synapses at maturity.
Time-lapse imaging revealed that this was caused by a reduced rate of synapse
formation rather than an increase in synapse elimination. Similarly,
TeNT-expressing ON bipolar cell axons generated fewer presynaptic active zones.
The remaining active zones often recruited multiple, instead of single, synaptic 
ribbons. ON-OFF RGCs in TeNT mice maintained convergence of ON and OFF bipolar
cells inputs and had fewer synapses on their ON arbor without changes to OFF
arbor synapses. Our results reveal an unexpected and remarkably selective role
for activity in circuit development in vivo, regulating synapse formation but not
elimination, affecting synapse number but not dendritic or axonal patterning, and
mediating independently the refinement of connections from parallel (ON and OFF) 
processing streams even where they converge onto the same postsynaptic cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08236 
PMCID: PMC2746695
PMID: 19693082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1003-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08257.

Global electromagnetic induction constraints on transition-zone water content
variations.

Kelbert A(1), Schultz A, Egbert G.

Author information: 
(1)College of Oceanic & Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University, Corvallis,
Oregon 97331-5503, USA.

Small amounts of water can significantly affect the physical properties of mantle
materials, including lowering of the solidus, and reducing effective viscosity
and seismic velocity. The amount and distribution of water within the mantle thus
has profound implications for the dynamics and geochemical evolution of the
Earth. Electrical conductivity is also highly sensitive to the presence of
hydrogen in mantle minerals. The mantle transition zone minerals wadsleyite and
ringwoodite in particular have high water solubility, and recent high pressure
experiments show that the electrical conductivity of these minerals is very
sensitive to water content. Thus estimates of the electrical conductivity of the 
mantle transition zone derived from electromagnetic induction studies have the
potential to constrain the water content of this region. Here we invert long
period geomagnetic response functions to derive a global-scale three-dimensional 
model of electrical conductivity variations in the Earth's mantle, revealing
variations in the electrical conductivity of the transition zone of approximately
one order of magnitude. Conductivities are high in cold, seismically fast, areas 
where slabs have subducted into or through the transition zone. Significant
variations in water content throughout the transition zone provide a plausible
explanation for the observed patterns. Our results support the view that at least
some of the water in the transition zone has been carried into that region by
cold subducting slabs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08257 
PMID: 19693081 


327. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):995-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08244.

In situ observation of incompressible Mott-insulating domains in ultracold atomic
gases.

Gemelke N(1), Zhang X, Hung CL, Chin C.

Author information: 
(1)The James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

The observation of the superfluid to Mott insulator phase transition of ultracold
atoms in optical lattices was an enabling discovery in experimental many-body
physics, providing the first tangible example of a quantum phase transition (one 
that occurs even at zero temperature) in an ultracold atomic gas. For a trapped
gas, the spatially varying local chemical potential gives rise to multiple
quantum phases within a single sample, complicating the interpretation of bulk
measurements. Here we report spatially resolved, in-situ imaging of a
two-dimensional ultracold atomic gas as it crosses the superfluid to Mott
insulator transition, providing direct access to individual characteristics of
the insulating, superfluid and normal phases. We present results for the local
compressibility in all phases, observing a strong suppression in the insulator
domain and suppressed density fluctuations for the Mott insulator, in accordance 
with the fluctuation-dissipation theorem. Furthermore, we obtain a direct measure
of the finite temperature of the system. Taken together, these methods enable a
complete characterization of multiple phases in a strongly correlated Bose gas,
and of the interplay between quantum and thermal fluctuations in the quantum
critical regime.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08244 
PMID: 19693080 


328. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):990-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08278.

An upper limit on the stochastic gravitational-wave background of cosmological
origin.

LIGO Scientific Collaboration & Virgo Collaboration, Abbott BP, Abbott R,
Acernese F, Adhikari R, Ajith P, Allen B, Allen G, Alshourbagy M, Amin RS,
Anderson SB, Anderson WG, Antonucci F, Aoudia S, Arain MA, Araya M, Armandula H, 
Armor P, Arun KG, Aso Y, Aston S, Astone P, Aufmuth P, Aulbert C, Babak S, Baker 
P, Ballardin G, Ballmer S, Barker C, Barker D, Barone F, Barr B, Barriga P,
Barsotti L, Barsuglia M, Barton MA, Bartos I, Bassiri R, Bastarrika M, Bauer TS, 
Behnke B, Beker M, Benacquista M, Betzwieser J, Beyersdorf PT, Bigotta S, Bilenko
IA, Billingsley G, Birindelli S, Biswas R, Bizouard MA, Black E, Blackburn JK,
Blackburn L, Blair D, Bland B, Boccara C, Bodiya TP, Bogue L, Bondu F, Bonelli L,
Bork R, Boschi V, Bose S, Bosi L, Braccini S, Bradaschia C, Brady PR, Braginsky
VB, Brand JF, Brau JE, Bridges DO, Brillet A, Brinkmann M, Brisson V, Van Den
Broeck C, Brooks AF, Brown DA, Brummit A, Brunet G, Bullington A, Bulten HJ,
Buonanno A, Burmeister O, Buskulic D, Byer RL, Cadonati L, Cagnoli G, Calloni E, 
Camp JB, Campagna E, Cannizzo J, Cannon KC, Canuel B, Cao J, Carbognani F,
Cardenas L, Caride S, Castaldi G, Caudill S, Cavaglià M, Cavalier F, Cavalieri R,
Cella G, Cepeda C, Cesarini E, Chalermsongsak T, Chalkley E, Charlton P,
Chassande-Mottin E, Chatterji S, Chelkowski S, Chen Y, Christensen N, Chung CT,
Clark D, Clark J, Clayton JH, Cleva F, Coccia E, Cokelaer T, Colacino CN, Colas
J, Colla A, Colombini M, Conte R, Cook D, Corbitt TR, Corda C, Cornish N, Corsi
A, Coulon JP, Coward D, Coyne DC, Creighton JD, Creighton TD, Cruise AM, Culter
RM, Cumming A, Cunningham L, Cuoco E, Danilishin SL, D'Antonio S, Danzmann K,
Dari A, Dattilo V, Daudert B, Davier M, Davies G, Daw EJ, Day R, De Rosa R, Debra
D, Degallaix J, Del Prete M, Dergachev V, Desai S, Desalvo R, Dhurandhar S, Di
Fiore L, Di Lieto A, Di Paolo Emilio M, Di Virgilio A, Díaz M, Dietz A, Donovan
F, Dooley KL, Doomes EE, Drago M, Drever RW, Dueck J, Duke I, Dumas JC, Dwyer JG,
Echols C, Edgar M, Effler A, Ehrens P, Ely G, Espinoza E, Etzel T, Evans M, Evans
T, Fafone V, Fairhurst S, Faltas Y, Fan Y, Fazi D, Fehrmann H, Ferrante I,
Fidecaro F, Finn LS, Fiori I, Flaminio R, Flasch K, Foley S, Forrest C,
Fotopoulos N, Fournier JD, Franc J, Franzen A, Frasca S, Frasconi F, Frede M,
Frei M, Frei Z, Freise A, Frey R, Fricke T, Fritschel P, Frolov VV, Fyffe M,
Galdi V, Gammaitoni L, Garofoli JA, Garufi F, Genin E, Gennai A, Gholami I,
Giaime JA, Giampanis S, Giardina KD, Giazotto A, Goda K, Goetz E, Goggin LM,
González G, Gorodetsky ML, Gobler S, Gouaty R, Granata M, Granata V, Grant A,
Gras S, Gray C, Gray M, Greenhalgh RJ, Gretarsson AM, Greverie C, Grimaldi F,
Grosso R, Grote H, Grunewald S, Guenther M, Guidi G, Gustafson EK, Gustafson R,
Hage B, Hallam JM, Hammer D, Hammond GD, Hanna C, Hanson J, Harms J, Harry GM,
Harry IW, Harstad ED, Haughian K, Hayama K, Heefner J, Heitmann H, Hello P, Heng 
IS, Heptonstall A, Hewitson M, Hild S, Hirose E, Hoak D, Hodge KA, Holt K, Hosken
DJ, Hough J, Hoyland D, Huet D, Hughey B, Huttner SH, Ingram DR, Isogai T, Ito M,
Ivanov A, Johnson B, Johnson WW, Jones DI, Jones G, Jones R, Sancho de la Jordana
L, Ju L, Kalmus P, Kalogera V, Kandhasamy S, Kanner J, Kasprzyk D, Katsavounidis 
E, Kawabe K, Kawamura S, Kawazoe F, Kells W, Keppel DG, Khalaidovski A, Khalili
FY, Khan R, Khazanov E, King P, Kissel JS, Klimenko S, Kokeyama K, Kondrashov V, 
Kopparapu R, Koranda S, Kozak D, Krishnan B, Kumar R, Kwee P, La Penna P, Lam PK,
Landry M, Lantz B, Laval M, Lazzarini A, Lei H, Lei M, Leindecker N, Leonor I,
Leroy N, Letendre N, Li C, Lin H, Lindquist PE, Littenberg TB, Lockerbie NA,
Lodhia D, Longo M, Lorenzini M, Loriette V, Lormand M, Losurdo G, Lu P, Lubinski 
M, Lucianetti A, Lück H, Machenschalk B, Macinnis M, Mackowski JM, Mageswaran M, 
Mailand K, Majorana E, Man N, Mandel I, Mandic V, Mantovani M, Marchesoni F,
Marion F, Márka S, Márka Z, Markosyan A, Markowitz J, Maros E, Marque J, Martelli
F, Martin IW, Martin RM, Marx JN, Mason K, Masserot A, Matichard F, Matone L,
Matzner RA, Mavalvala N, McCarthy R, McClelland DE, McGuire SC, McHugh M,
McIntyre G, McKechan DJ, McKenzie K, Mehmet M, Melatos A, Melissinos AC, Mendell 
G, Menéndez DF, Menzinger F, Mercer RA, Meshkov S, Messenger C, Meyer MS, Michel 
C, Milano L, Miller J, Minelli J, Minenkov Y, Mino Y, Mitrofanov VP, Mitselmakher
G, Mittleman R, Miyakawa O, Moe B, Mohan M, Mohanty SD, Mohapatra SR, Moreau J,
Moreno G, Morgado N, Morgia A, Morioka T, Mors K, Mosca S, Mossavi K, Mours B,
Mowlowry C, Mueller G, Muhammad D, Mühlen HZ, Mukherjee S, Mukhopadhyay H,
Mullavey A, Müller-Ebhardt H, Munch J, Murray PG, Myers E, Myers J, Nash T,
Nelson J, Neri I, Newton G, Nishizawa A, Nocera F, Numata K, Ochsner E, O'Dell J,
Ogin GH, O'Reilly B, O'Shaughnessy R, Ottaway DJ, Ottens RS, Overmier H, Owen BJ,
Pagliaroli G, Palomba C, Pan Y, Pankow C, Paoletti F, Papa MA, Parameshwaraiah V,
Pardi S, Pasqualetti A, Passaquieti R, Passuello D, Patel P, Pedraza M, Penn S,
Perreca A, Persichetti G, Pichot M, Piergiovanni F, Pierro V, Pinard L, Pinto IM,
Pitkin M, Pletsch HJ, Plissi MV, Poggiani R, Postiglione F, Principe M, Prix R,
Prodi GA, Prokhorov L, Punken O, Punturo M, Puppo P, Putten Sv, Quetschke V, Raab
FJ, Rabaste O, Rabeling DS, Radkins H, Raffai P, Raics Z, Rainer N, Rakhmanov M, 
Rapagnani P, Raymond V, Re V, Reed CM, Reed T, Regimbau T, Rehbein H, Reid S,
Reitze DH, Ricci F, Riesen R, Riles K, Rivera B, Roberts P, Robertson NA, Robinet
F, Robinson C, Robinson EL, Rocchi A, Roddy S, Rolland L, Rollins J, Romano JD,
Romano R, Romie JH, Röver C, Rowan S, Rüdiger A, Ruggi P, Russell P, Ryan K,
Sakata S, Salemi F, Sandberg V, Sannibale V, Santamaría L, Saraf S, Sarin P,
Sassolas B, Sathyaprakash BS, Sato S, Satterthwaite M, Saulson PR, Savage R,
Savov P, Scanlan M, Schilling R, Schnabel R, Schofield R, Schulz B, Schutz BF,
Schwinberg P, Scott J, Scott SM, Searle AC, Sears B, Seifert F, Sellers D,
Sengupta AS, Sentenac D, Sergeev A, Shapiro B, Shawhan P, Shoemaker DH, Sibley A,
Siemens X, Sigg D, Sinha S, Sintes AM, Slagmolen BJ, Slutsky J, van der Sluys MV,
Smith JR, Smith MR, Smith ND, Somiya K, Sorazu B, Stein A, Stein LC, Steplewski
S, Stochino A, Stone R, Strain KA, Strigin S, Stroeer A, Sturani R, Stuver AL,
Summerscales TZ, Sun KX, Sung M, Sutton PJ, Swinkels BL, Szokoly GP, Talukder D, 
Tang L, Tanner DB, Tarabrin SP, Taylor JR, Taylor R, Terenzi R, Thacker J, Thorne
KA, Thorne KS, Thüring A, Tokmakov KV, Toncelli A, Tonelli M, Torres C, Torrie C,
Tournefier E, Travasso F, Traylor G, Trias M, Trummer J, Ugolini D, Ulmen J,
Urbanek K, Vahlbruch H, Vajente G, Vallisneri M, Vass S, Vaulin R, Vavoulidis M, 
Vecchio A, Vedovato G, van Veggel AA, Veitch J, Veitch P, Veltkamp C, Verkindt D,
Vetrano F, Viceré A, Villar A, Vinet JY, Vocca H, Vorvick C, Vyachanin SP,
Waldman SJ, Wallace L, Ward H, Ward RL, Was M, Weidner A, Weinert M, Weinstein
AJ, Weiss R, Wen L, Wen S, Wette K, Whelan JT, Whitcomb SE, Whiting BF, Wilkinson
C, Willems PA, Williams HR, Williams L, Willke B, Wilmut I, Winkelmann L, Winkler
W, Wipf CC, Wiseman AG, Woan G, Wooley R, Worden J, Wu W, Yakushin I, Yamamoto H,
Yan Z, Yoshida S, Yvert M, Zanolin M, Zhang J, Zhang L, Zhao C, Zotov N, Zucker
ME, Zweizig J.

A stochastic background of gravitational waves is expected to arise from a
superposition of a large number of unresolved gravitational-wave sources of
astrophysical and cosmological origin. It should carry unique signatures from the
earliest epochs in the evolution of the Universe, inaccessible to standard
astrophysical observations. Direct measurements of the amplitude of this
background are therefore of fundamental importance for understanding the
evolution of the Universe when it was younger than one minute. Here we report
limits on the amplitude of the stochastic gravitational-wave background using the
data from a two-year science run of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave
Observatory (LIGO). Our result constrains the energy density of the stochastic
gravitational-wave background normalized by the critical energy density of the
Universe, in the frequency band around 100 Hz, to be <6.9 x 10(-6) at 95%
confidence. The data rule out models of early Universe evolution with relatively 
large equation-of-state parameter, as well as cosmic (super)string models with
relatively small string tension that are favoured in some string theory models.
This search for the stochastic background improves on the indirect limits from
Big Bang nucleosynthesis and cosmic microwave background at 100 Hz.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08278 
PMID: 19693079 


329. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):967-71. doi: 10.1038/nature08183.

Evidence for an early prokaryotic endosymbiosis.

Lake JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA. lake@mbi.ucla.edu

Endosymbioses have dramatically altered eukaryotic life, but are thought to have 
negligibly affected prokaryotic evolution. Here, by analysing the flows of
protein families, I present evidence that the double-membrane, gram-negative
prokaryotes were formed as the result of a symbiosis between an ancient
actinobacterium and an ancient clostridium. The resulting taxon has been
extraordinarily successful, and has profoundly altered the evolution of life by
providing endosymbionts necessary for the emergence of eukaryotes and by
generating Earth's oxygen atmosphere. Their double-membrane architecture and the 
observed genome flows into them suggest a common evolutionary mechanism for their
origin: an endosymbiosis between a clostridium and actinobacterium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08183 
PMID: 19693078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):952-3. doi: 10.1038/460952a.

Misadventures in the Burgess Shale.

Collins D.

One hundred years after Charles Doolittle Walcott found a wealth of Cambrian
fossils in the Rocky Mountains of British Columbia, Desmond Collins reflects on
the bumpy road of their classification.

DOI: 10.1038/460952a 
PMID: 19693066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):950-1. doi: 10.1038/460950a.

Biologists napping while work militarized.

Dando M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Peace Studies, University of Bradford, Richmond Road, Bradford, 
BD7 IDP, UK. mrdando@bradford.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):340.

As researchers discover more agents that alter mental states, the Chemical
Weapons Convention needs modification to help ensure that the life sciences are
not used for hostile purposes, says Malcolm Dando.

DOI: 10.1038/460950a 
PMID: 19693065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):933. doi: 10.1038/460933a.

Common consent.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):593.
    Nature. 2009 Oct 1;461(7264):593.

The distribution of human cell lines used in research should not be hindered by
restrictions from donors.

DOI: 10.1038/460933a 
PMID: 19693035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):933. doi: 10.1038/460933b.

A question of control.

[No authors listed]

Scientists must address the ethics of using neuroactive compounds to quash
domestic crises.

DOI: 10.1038/460933b 
PMID: 19693034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):999-1002. doi: 10.1038/nature08238. Epub 2009 Aug
12.

Satellite-based estimates of groundwater depletion in India.

Rodell M(1), Velicogna I, Famiglietti JS.

Author information: 
(1)Hydrological Sciences Branch, Code 614.3, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 19;462(7271):276.

Groundwater is a primary source of fresh water in many parts of the world. Some
regions are becoming overly dependent on it, consuming groundwater faster than it
is naturally replenished and causing water tables to decline unremittingly.
Indirect evidence suggests that this is the case in northwest India, but there
has been no regional assessment of the rate of groundwater depletion. Here we use
terrestrial water storage-change observations from the NASA Gravity Recovery and 
Climate Experiment satellites and simulated soil-water variations from a
data-integrating hydrological modelling system to show that groundwater is being 
depleted at a mean rate of 4.0 +/- 1.0 cm yr(-1) equivalent height of water (17.7
+/- 4.5 km(3) yr(-1)) over the Indian states of Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana
(including Delhi). During our study period of August 2002 to October 2008,
groundwater depletion was equivalent to a net loss of 109 km(3) of water, which
is double the capacity of India's largest surface-water reservoir. Annual
rainfall was close to normal throughout the period and we demonstrate that the
other terrestrial water storage components (soil moisture, surface waters, snow, 
glaciers and biomass) did not contribute significantly to the observed decline in
total water levels. Although our observational record is brief, the available
evidence suggests that unsustainable consumption of groundwater for irrigation
and other anthropogenic uses is likely to be the cause. If measures are not taken
soon to ensure sustainable groundwater usage, the consequences for the
114,000,000 residents of the region may include a reduction of agricultural
output and shortages of potable water, leading to extensive socioeconomic
stresses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08238 
PMID: 19675570 


335. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1021-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08260.

In vitro and in vivo characterization of new swine-origin H1N1 influenza viruses.

Itoh Y(1), Shinya K, Kiso M, Watanabe T, Sakoda Y, Hatta M, Muramoto Y, Tamura D,
Sakai-Tagawa Y, Noda T, Sakabe S, Imai M, Hatta Y, Watanabe S, Li C, Yamada S,
Fujii K, Murakami S, Imai H, Kakugawa S, Ito M, Takano R, Iwatsuki-Horimoto K,
Shimojima M, Horimoto T, Goto H, Takahashi K, Makino A, Ishigaki H, Nakayama M,
Okamatsu M, Takahashi K, Warshauer D, Shult PA, Saito R, Suzuki H, Furuta Y,
Yamashita M, Mitamura K, Nakano K, Nakamura M, Brockman-Schneider R, Mitamura H, 
Yamazaki M, Sugaya N, Suresh M, Ozawa M, Neumann G, Gern J, Kida H, Ogasawara K, 
Kawaoka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Shiga University of Medical Science, Ohtsu, Shiga
520-2192, Japan.

Influenza A viruses cause recurrent outbreaks at local or global scale with
potentially severe consequences for human health and the global economy.
Recently, a new strain of influenza A virus was detected that causes disease in
and transmits among humans, probably owing to little or no pre-existing immunity 
to the new strain. On 11 June 2009 the World Health Organization declared that
the infections caused by the new strain had reached pandemic proportion.
Characterized as an influenza A virus of the H1N1 subtype, the genomic segments
of the new strain were most closely related to swine viruses. Most human
infections with swine-origin H1N1 influenza viruses (S-OIVs) seem to be mild;
however, a substantial number of hospitalized individuals do not have underlying 
health issues, attesting to the pathogenic potential of S-OIVs. To achieve a
better assessment of the risk posed by the new virus, we characterized one of the
first US S-OIV isolates, A/California/04/09 (H1N1; hereafter referred to as
CA04), as well as several other S-OIV isolates, in vitro and in vivo. In mice and
ferrets, CA04 and other S-OIV isolates tested replicate more efficiently than a
currently circulating human H1N1 virus. In addition, CA04 replicates efficiently 
in non-human primates, causes more severe pathological lesions in the lungs of
infected mice, ferrets and non-human primates than a currently circulating human 
H1N1 virus, and transmits among ferrets. In specific-pathogen-free miniature
pigs, CA04 replicates without clinical symptoms. The assessment of human sera
from different age groups suggests that infection with human H1N1 viruses
antigenically closely related to viruses circulating in 1918 confers neutralizing
antibody activity to CA04. Finally, we show that CA04 is sensitive to approved
and experimental antiviral drugs, suggesting that these compounds could function 
as a first line of defence against the recently declared S-OIV pandemic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08260 
PMCID: PMC2748827
PMID: 19672242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1031-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08231. Epub 2009 Aug 2.

Characterization of two classes of small molecule inhibitors of Arp2/3 complex.

Nolen BJ(1), Tomasevic N, Russell A, Pierce DW, Jia Z, McCormick CD, Hartman J,
Sakowicz R, Pollard TD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Polymerization of actin filaments directed by the actin-related protein (Arp)2/3 
complex supports many types of cellular movements. However, questions remain
regarding the relative contributions of Arp2/3 complex versus other mechanisms of
actin filament nucleation to processes such as path finding by neuronal growth
cones; this is because of the lack of simple methods to inhibit Arp2/3 complex
reversibly in living cells. Here we describe two classes of small molecules that 
bind to different sites on the Arp2/3 complex and inhibit its ability to nucleate
actin filaments. CK-0944636 binds between Arp2 and Arp3, where it appears to
block movement of Arp2 and Arp3 into their active conformation. CK-0993548
inserts into the hydrophobic core of Arp3 and alters its conformation. Both
classes of compounds inhibit formation of actin filament comet tails by Listeria 
and podosomes by monocytes. Two inhibitors with different mechanisms of action
provide a powerful approach for studying the Arp2/3 complex in living cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08231 
PMCID: PMC2780427
PMID: 19648907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):984-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08217. Epub 2009 Jul 29.

Specific pathways prevent duplication-mediated genome rearrangements.

Putnam CD(1), Hayes TK, Kolodner RD.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Department of Medicine, University of
California School of Medicine, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California
92093-0669, USA.

We have investigated the ability of different regions of the left arm of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome V to participate in the formation of gross
chromosomal rearrangements (GCRs). We found that the 4.2-kilobase HXT13-DSF1
region sharing divergent homology with chromosomes IV, X and XIV, similar to
mammalian segmental duplications, was 'at risk' for participating in
duplication-mediated GCRs generated by homologous recombination. Numerous genes
and pathways, including SGS1, TOP3, RMI1, SRS2, RAD6, SLX1, SLX4, SLX5, MSH2,
MSH6, RAD10 and the DNA replication stress checkpoint requiring MRC1 and TOF1,
were highly specific for suppressing these GCRs compared to GCRs mediated by
single-copy sequences. These results indicate that the mechanisms for formation
and suppression of rearrangements occurring in regions containing at-risk
sequences differ from those occurring in regions of single-copy sequence. This
explains how extensive genome instability is prevented in eukaryotic cells whose 
genomes contain numerous divergent repeated sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08217 
PMCID: PMC2785216
PMID: 19641493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):978-83. doi: 10.1038/nature08280. Epub 2009 Jul 26.

Homotypic fusion of ER membranes requires the dynamin-like GTPase atlastin.

Orso G(1), Pendin D, Liu S, Tosetto J, Moss TJ, Faust JE, Micaroni M, Egorova A, 
Martinuzzi A, McNew JA, Daga A.

Author information: 
(1)Eugenio Medea Scientific Institute, Conegliano 31015, Italy.

Erratum in
    Nature.2010 Apr 8;464(7290):942.

Establishment and maintenance of proper architecture is essential for endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) function. Homotypic membrane fusion is required for ER biogenesis 
and maintenance, and has been shown to depend on GTP hydrolysis. Here we
demonstrate that Drosophila Atlastin--the fly homologue of the mammalian GTPase
atlastin 1 involved in hereditary spastic paraplegia--localizes on ER membranes
and that its loss causes ER fragmentation. Drosophila Atlastin embedded in
distinct membranes has the ability to form trans-oligomeric complexes and its
overexpression induces enlargement of ER profiles, consistent with excessive
fusion of ER membranes. In vitro experiments confirm that Atlastin autonomously
drives membrane fusion in a GTP-dependent fashion. In contrast, GTPase-deficient 
Atlastin is inactive, unable to form trans-oligomeric complexes owing to failure 
to self-associate, and incapable of promoting fusion in vitro. These results
demonstrate that Atlastin mediates membrane tethering and fusion and strongly
suggest that it is the GTPase activity that is required for ER homotypic fusion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08280 
PMID: 19633650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1007-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08208. Epub 2009 Jul
22.

Phase-locking and environmental fluctuations generate synchrony in a
predator-prey community.

Vasseur DA(1), Fox JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA. david.vasseur@yale.edu

Spatially synchronized fluctuations in system state are common in physical and
biological systems ranging from individual atoms to species as diverse as
viruses, insects and mammals. Although the causal factors are well known for many
synchronized phenomena, several processes concurrently have an impact on spatial 
synchrony of species, making their separate effects and interactions difficult to
quantify. Here we develop a general stochastic model of predator-prey spatial
dynamics to predict the outcome of a laboratory microcosm experiment testing for 
interactions among all known synchronizing factors: (1) dispersal of individuals 
between populations; (2) spatially synchronous fluctuations in exogenous
environmental factors (the Moran effect); and (3) interactions with other species
(for example, predators) that are themselves spatially synchronized. The Moran
effect synchronized populations of the ciliate protist Tetrahymena pyriformis;
however, dispersal only synchronized prey populations in the presence of the
predator Euplotes patella. Both model and data indicate that synchrony depends on
cyclic dynamics generated by the predator. Dispersal, but not the Moran effect,
'phase-locks' cycles, which otherwise become 'decoherent' and drift out of phase.
In the absence of cycles, phase-locking is not possible and the synchronizing
effect of dispersal is negligible. Interspecific interactions determine
population synchrony, not by providing an additional source of synchronized
fluctuations, but by altering population dynamics and thereby enhancing the
action of dispersal. Our results are robust to wide variation in model parameters
representative of many natural predator-prey or host-pathogen systems. This
explains why cyclic systems provide many of the most dramatic examples of spatial
synchrony in nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08208 
PMID: 19626006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1035-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08229. Epub 2009 Jul 22.

XIAP discriminates between type I and type II FAS-induced apoptosis.

Jost PJ(1), Grabow S, Gray D, McKenzie MD, Nachbur U, Huang DC, Bouillet P,
Thomas HE, Borner C, Silke J, Strasser A, Kaufmann T.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne University,
Parkville, Victoria 3050, Australia.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2009 Dec;50(6):2040-3.

FAS (also called APO-1 and CD95) and its physiological ligand, FASL, regulate
apoptosis of unwanted or dangerous cells, functioning as a guardian against
autoimmunity and cancer development. Distinct cell types differ in the mechanisms
by which the 'death receptor' FAS triggers their apoptosis. In type I cells, such
as lymphocytes, activation of 'effector caspases' by FAS-induced activation of
caspase-8 suffices for cell killing, whereas in type II cells, including
hepatocytes and pancreatic beta-cells, caspase cascade amplification through
caspase-8-mediated activation of the pro-apoptotic BCL-2 family member BID (BH3
interacting domain death agonist) is essential. Here we show that loss of XIAP
(X-chromosome linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein) function by gene targeting
or treatment with a second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases (SMAC, also
called DIABLO; direct IAP-binding protein with low pI) mimetic drug in mice
rendered hepatocytes and beta-cells independent of BID for FAS-induced apoptosis.
These results show that XIAP is the critical discriminator between type I and
type II apoptosis signalling and suggest that IAP inhibitors should be used with 
caution in cancer patients with underlying liver conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08229 
PMCID: PMC2956120
PMID: 19626005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):972-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08253. Epub 2009 Jul 22.

High harmonic interferometry of multi-electron dynamics in molecules.

Smirnova O(1), Mairesse Y, Patchkovskii S, Dudovich N, Villeneuve D, Corkum P,
Ivanov MY.

Author information: 
(1)[1] National Research Council of Canada, 100 Sussex Drive, Ottawa, Ontario K1A
0R6, Canada [2] Max-Born Institute, 2a Max-Born-Strasse, Berlin D-12489, Germany.

High harmonic emission occurs when an electron, liberated from a molecule by an
incident intense laser field, gains energy from the field and recombines with the
parent molecular ion. The emission provides a snapshot of the structure and
dynamics of the recombining system, encoded in the amplitudes, phases and
polarization of the harmonic light. Here we show with CO(2) molecules that high
harmonic interferometry can retrieve this structural and dynamic information: by 
measuring the phases and amplitudes of the harmonic emission, we reveal
'fingerprints' of multiple molecular orbitals participating in the process and
decode the underlying attosecond multi-electron dynamics, including the dynamics 
of electron rearrangement upon ionization. These findings establish high harmonic
interferometry as an effective approach to resolving multi-electron dynamics with
sub-Angström spatial resolution arising from the de Broglie wavelength of the
recombining electron, and attosecond temporal resolution arising from the
timescale of the recombination event.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08253 
PMID: 19626004 


342. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1011-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08211. Epub 2009 Jul 8.

A highly annotated whole-genome sequence of a Korean individual.

Kim JI(1), Ju YS, Park H, Kim S, Lee S, Yi JH, Mudge J, Miller NA, Hong D, Bell
CJ, Kim HS, Chung IS, Lee WC, Lee JS, Seo SH, Yun JY, Woo HN, Lee H, Suh D, Lee
S, Kim HJ, Yavartanoo M, Kwak M, Zheng Y, Lee MK, Park H, Kim JY, Gokcumen O,
Mills RE, Zaranek AW, Thakuria J, Wu X, Kim RW, Huntley JJ, Luo S, Schroth GP, Wu
TD, Kim H, Yang KS, Park WY, Kim H, Church GM, Lee C, Kingsmore SF, Seo JS.

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, Korea.

Recent advances in sequencing technologies have initiated an era of personal
genome sequences. To date, human genome sequences have been reported for
individuals with ancestry in three distinct geographical regions: a Yoruba
African, two individuals of northwest European origin, and a person from China.
Here we provide a highly annotated, whole-genome sequence for a Korean
individual, known as AK1. The genome of AK1 was determined by an exacting,
combined approach that included whole-genome shotgun sequencing (27.8x coverage),
targeted bacterial artificial chromosome sequencing, and high-resolution
comparative genomic hybridization using custom microarrays featuring more than 24
million probes. Alignment to the NCBI reference, a composite of several ethnic
clades, disclosed nearly 3.45 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs),
including 10,162 non-synonymous SNPs, and 170,202 deletion or insertion
polymorphisms (indels). SNP and indel densities were strongly correlated
genome-wide. Applying very conservative criteria yielded highly reliable copy
number variants for clinical considerations. Potential medical phenotypes were
annotated for non-synonymous SNPs, coding domain indels, and structural variants.
The integration of several human whole-genome sequences derived from several
ethnic groups will assist in understanding genetic ancestry, migration patterns
and population bottlenecks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08211 
PMCID: PMC2860965
PMID: 19587683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1040-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08201. Epub 2009 Jul 5.

Structure of a prokaryotic virtual proton pump at 3.2 A resolution.

Fang Y(1), Jayaram H, Shane T, Kolmakova-Partensky L, Wu F, Williams C, Xiong Y, 
Miller C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Brandeis
University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

To reach the mammalian gut, enteric bacteria must pass through the stomach. Many 
such organisms survive exposure to the harsh gastric environment (pH 1.5-4) by
mounting extreme acid-resistance responses, one of which, the arginine-dependent 
system of Escherichia coli, has been studied at levels of cellular physiology,
molecular genetics and protein biochemistry. This multiprotein system keeps the
cytoplasm above pH 5 during acid challenge by continually pumping protons out of 
the cell using the free energy of arginine decarboxylation. At the heart of the
process is a 'virtual proton pump' in the inner membrane, called AdiC, that
imports L-arginine from the gastric juice and exports its decarboxylation product
agmatine. AdiC belongs to the APC superfamily of membrane proteins, which
transports amino acids, polyamines and organic cations in a multitude of
biological roles, including delivery of arginine for nitric oxide synthesis,
facilitation of insulin release from pancreatic beta-cells, and, when
inappropriately overexpressed, provisioning of certain fast-growing neoplastic
cells with amino acids. High-resolution structures and detailed transport
mechanisms of APC transporters are currently unknown. Here we describe a crystal 
structure of AdiC at 3.2 A resolution. The protein is captured in an
outward-open, substrate-free conformation with transmembrane architecture
remarkably similar to that seen in four other families of apparently unrelated
transport proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08201 
PMCID: PMC2745212
PMID: 19578361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):890-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08252.

Homothallic and heterothallic mating in the opportunistic pathogen Candida
albicans.

Alby K(1), Schaefer D, Bennett RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University,
Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):807-8.

Candida albicans is the most common fungal pathogen in humans, causing both
debilitating mucosal infections and potentially life-threatening systemic
infections. Until recently, C. albicans was thought to be strictly asexual,
existing only as an obligate diploid. A cryptic mating cycle has since been
uncovered in which diploid a and alpha cells undergo efficient cell and nuclear
fusion, resulting in tetraploid a/alpha mating products. Whereas mating between a
and alpha cells has been established (heterothallism), we report here two
pathways for same-sex mating (homothallism) in C. albicans. First, unisexual
populations of a cells were found to undergo autocrine pheromone signalling and
same-sex mating in the absence of the Bar1 protease. In both C. albicans and
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Bar1 is produced by a cells and inactivates mating
pheromone alpha, typically secreted by alpha cells. C. albicans Deltabar1 a cells
were shown to secrete both a and alpha mating pheromones; alpha-pheromone
activated self-mating in these cells in a process dependent on Ste2, the receptor
for alpha-pheromone. In addition, pheromone production by alpha cells was found
to promote same-sex mating between wild-type a cells. These results establish
that homothallic mating can occur in C. albicans, revealing the potential for
genetic exchange even within unisexual populations of the organism. Furthermore, 
Bar1 protease has an unexpected but pivotal role in determining whether sexual
reproduction can potentially be homothallic or is exclusively heterothallic.
These findings also have implications for the mode of sexual reproduction in
related species that propagate unisexually, and indicate a role for specialized
sexual cycles in the survival and adaptation of pathogenic fungi.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08252 
PMCID: PMC2866515
PMID: 19675652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):884-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08263.

Glacial effects limiting mountain height.

Egholm DL(1), Nielsen SB, Pedersen VK, Lesemann JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus, Denmark.
david@geo.au.dk

The height of mountain ranges reflects the balance between tectonic rock uplift, 
crustal strength and surface denudation. Tectonic deformation and surface
denudation are interdependent, however, and feedback mechanisms-in particular,
the potential link to climate-are subjects of intense debate. Spatial variations 
in fluvial denudation rate caused by precipitation gradients are known to provide
first-order controls on mountain range width, crustal deformation rates and rock 
uplift. Moreover, limits to crustal strength are thought to constrain the maximum
elevation of large continental plateaus, such as those in Tibet and the central
Andes. There are indications that the general height of mountain ranges is also
directly influenced by the extent of glaciation through an efficient denudation
mechanism known as the glacial buzzsaw. Here we use a global analysis of
topography and show that variations in maximum mountain height correlate closely 
with climate-controlled gradients in snowline altitude for many high mountain
ranges across orogenic ages and tectonic styles. With the aid of a numerical
model, we further demonstrate how a combination of erosional destruction of
topography above the snowline by glacier-sliding and commensurate isostatic
landscape uplift caused by erosional unloading can explain observations of
maximum mountain height by driving elevations towards an altitude window just
below the snowline. The model thereby self-consistently produces the hypsometric 
signature of the glacial buzzsaw, and suggests that differences in the height of 
mountain ranges mainly reflect variations in local climate rather than tectonic
forces.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08263 
PMID: 19675651 


346. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):880-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08219.

Atlantic hurricanes and climate over the past 1,500 years.

Mann ME(1), Woodruff JD, Donnelly JP, Zhang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Meteorology and Earth and Environmental Systems Institute,
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
mann@psu.edu

Atlantic tropical cyclone activity, as measured by annual storm counts, reached
anomalous levels over the past decade. The short nature of the historical record 
and potential issues with its reliability in earlier decades, however, has
prompted an ongoing debate regarding the reality and significance of the recent
rise. Here we place recent activity in a longer-term context by comparing two
independent estimates of tropical cyclone activity over the past 1,500 years. The
first estimate is based on a composite of regional sedimentary evidence of
landfalling hurricanes, while the second estimate uses a previously published
statistical model of Atlantic tropical cyclone activity driven by proxy
reconstructions of past climate changes. Both approaches yield consistent
evidence of a peak in Atlantic tropical cyclone activity during medieval times
(around ad 1000) followed by a subsequent lull in activity. The statistical model
indicates that the medieval peak, which rivals or even exceeds (within
uncertainties) recent levels of activity, results from the reinforcing effects of
La-Niña-like climate conditions and relative tropical Atlantic warmth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08219 
PMID: 19675650 


347. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):876-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08239.

Dense packings of the Platonic and Archimedean solids.

Torquato S(1), Jiao Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
USA. torquato@princeton.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Oct 8;461(7265):828.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):801-2.

Dense particle packings have served as useful models of the structures of liquid,
glassy and crystalline states of matter, granular media, heterogeneous materials 
and biological systems. Probing the symmetries and other mathematical properties 
of the densest packings is a problem of interest in discrete geometry and number 
theory. Previous work has focused mainly on spherical particles-very little is
known about dense polyhedral packings. Here we formulate the generation of dense 
packings of polyhedra as an optimization problem, using an adaptive fundamental
cell subject to periodic boundary conditions (we term this the 'adaptive
shrinking cell' scheme). Using a variety of multi-particle initial
configurations, we find the densest known packings of the four non-tiling
Platonic solids (the tetrahedron, octahedron, dodecahedron and icosahedron) in
three-dimensional Euclidean space. The densities are 0.782..., 0.947..., 0.904...
and 0.836..., respectively. Unlike the densest tetrahedral packing, which must
not be a Bravais lattice packing, the densest packings of the other non-tiling
Platonic solids that we obtain are their previously known optimal (Bravais)
lattice packings. Combining our simulation results with derived rigorous upper
bounds and theoretical arguments leads us to the conjecture that the densest
packings of the Platonic and Archimedean solids with central symmetry are given
by their corresponding densest lattice packings. This is the analogue of Kepler's
sphere conjecture for these solids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08239 
PMID: 19675649 


348. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):873-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08193.

Storms in the tropics of Titan.

Schaller EL(1), Roe HG, Schneider T, Brown ME.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.
schaller@ifa.hawaii.edu

Methane clouds, lakes and most fluvial features on Saturn's moon Titan have been 
observed in the moist high latitudes, while the tropics have been nearly devoid
of convective clouds and have shown an abundance of wind-carved surface features 
like dunes. The presence of small-scale channels and dry riverbeds near the
equator observed by the Huygens probe at latitudes thought incapable of
supporting convection (and thus strong rain) has been suggested to be due to
geological seepage or other mechanisms not related to precipitation. Here we
report the presence of bright, transient, tropospheric clouds in tropical
latitudes. We find that the initial pulse of cloud activity generated planetary
waves that instigated cloud activity at other latitudes across Titan that had
been cloud-free for at least several years. These observations show that
convective pulses at one latitude can trigger short-term convection at other
latitudes, even those not generally considered capable of supporting convection, 
and may also explain the presence of methane-carved rivers and channels near the 
Huygens landing site.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08193 
PMID: 19675648 


349. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):869-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08256.

The diversity of type Ia supernovae from broken symmetries.

Kasen D(1), Röpke FK, Woosley SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, UCSC, Santa Cruz, California 95064, 
USA. kasen@ucolick.org

Type Ia supernovae result when carbon-oxygen white dwarfs in binary systems
accrete mass from companion stars, reach a critical mass and explode. The near
uniformity of their light curves makes these supernovae good 'standard candles'
for measuring cosmic expansion, but a correction must be applied to account for
the fact that the brighter ones have broader light curves. One-dimensional
modelling, with a certain choice of parameters, can reproduce this general trend 
in the width-luminosity relation; but the processes of ignition and detonation
have recently been shown to be intrinsically asymmetric, so parameterization must
have its limits. Here we report multi-dimensional modelling of the explosion
physics and radiative transfer, which reveals that the breaking of spherical
symmetry is a critical factor in determining both the width-luminosity relation
and the observed scatter about it. The deviation from spherical symmetry can also
explain the finite polarization detected in the light from some supernovae. The
slope and normalization of the width-luminosity relation has a weak dependence on
certain properties of the white dwarf progenitor, in particular the trace
abundances of elements other than carbon and oxygen. Failing to correct for this 
effect could lead to systematic overestimates of up to 2 per cent in the distance
to remote supernovae.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08256 
PMID: 19675647 


350. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):855-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08304.

Design of functional metalloproteins.

Lu Y(1), Yeung N, Sieracki N, Marshall NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA. yi-lu@illinois.edu

Metalloproteins catalyse some of the most complex and important processes in
nature, such as photosynthesis and water oxidation. An ultimate test of our
knowledge of how metalloproteins work is to design new metalloproteins. Doing so 
not only can reveal hidden structural features that may be missing from studies
of native metalloproteins and their variants, but also can result in new
metalloenzymes for biotechnological and pharmaceutical applications. Although it 
is much more challenging to design metalloproteins than non-metalloproteins, much
progress has been made in this area, particularly in functional design, owing to 
recent advances in areas such as computational and structural biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08304 
PMCID: PMC2770889
PMID: 19675646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):848-54. doi: 10.1038/nature08303.

Mechanistic considerations of halogenating enzymes.

Butler A(1), Sandy M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa
Barbara, California 93106, USA. butler@chem.ucsb.edu

In nature, halogenation is a strategy used to increase the biological activity of
secondary metabolites, compounds that are often effective as drugs. However,
halides are not particularly reactive unless they are activated, typically by
oxidation. The pace of discovery of new enzymes for halogenation is increasing,
revealing new metalloenzymes, flavoenzymes, S-adenosyl-L-methionine
(SAM)-dependent enzymes and others that catalyse halide oxidation using dioxygen,
hydrogen peroxide and hydroperoxides, or that promote nucleophilic halide
addition reactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08303 
PMID: 19675645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):839-47. doi: 10.1038/nature08302.

Molybdenum cofactors, enzymes and pathways.

Schwarz G(1), Mendel RR, Ribbe MW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry & Centre for Molecular
Medicine, University of Cologne, 47 Zuelpicher Street, 50674 Cologne, Germany.
gschwarz@uni-koeln.de

The trace element molybdenum is essential for nearly all organisms and forms the 
catalytic centre of a large variety of enzymes such as nitrogenase, nitrate
reductases, sulphite oxidase and xanthine oxidoreductases. Nature has developed
two scaffolds holding molybdenum in place, the iron-molybdenum cofactor and
pterin-based molybdenum cofactors. Despite the different structures and functions
of molybdenum-dependent enzymes, there are important similarities, which we
highlight here. The biosynthetic pathways leading to both types of cofactor have 
common mechanistic aspects relating to scaffold formation, metal activation and
cofactor insertion into apoenzymes, and have served as an evolutionary 'toolbox' 
to mediate additional cellular functions in eukaryotic metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08302 
PMID: 19675644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):831-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08301.

Function and biogenesis of iron-sulphur proteins.

Lill R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Zytobiologie, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Robert-Koch-Strasse
6, D-35033 Marburg, Germany. lill@staff.uni-marburg.de

Iron-sulphur (Fe-S) clusters have long been recognized as essential and versatile
cofactors of proteins involved in catalysis, electron transport and sensing of
ambient conditions. Despite the relative simplicity of Fe-S clusters in terms of 
structure and composition, their synthesis and assembly into apoproteins is a
highly complex and coordinated process in living cells. Different biogenesis
machineries in both bacteria and eukaryotes have been discovered that assist
Fe-S-protein maturation according to uniform biosynthetic principles. The
importance of Fe-S proteins for life is documented by an increasing number of
diseases linked to these components and their biogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08301 
PMID: 19675643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):823-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08300.

Metalloproteins and metal sensing.

Waldron KJ(1), Rutherford JC, Ford D, Robinson NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cell & Molecular Biosciences, Medical School, Newcastle University, Newcastle 
NE2 4HH, UK.

Almost half of all enzymes must associate with a particular metal to function. An
ambition is to understand why each metal-protein partnership arose and how it is 
maintained. Metal availability provides part of the explanation, and has changed 
over geological time and varies between habitats but is held within vital limits 
in cells. Such homeostasis needs metal sensors, and there is an ongoing search to
discover the metal-sensing mechanisms. For metalloproteins to acquire the right
metals, metal sensors must correctly distinguish between the inorganic elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08300 
PMID: 19675642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):814-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08299.

Structure-function relationships of anaerobic gas-processing metalloenzymes.

Fontecilla-Camps JC(1), Amara P, Cavazza C, Nicolet Y, Volbeda A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Cristallographie et Cristallogenèse des Protéines, Institut de 
Biologie Structurale J.P. Ebel, CEA, CNRS, Université Joseph Fourier, 41 rue J.
Horowitz, 38027 Grenoble Cedex 1, France. juan-carlos.fontecilla@ibs.fr

Reactions involving H(2), N(2), CO, CO(2) and CH(4) are likely to have been
central to the origin of life. This is indicated by the active-site structures of
the enzymes involved, which are often reminiscent of minerals. Through the
combined efforts of protein crystallography, various types of spectroscopy,
theoretical calculations and model chemistry, it has been possible to put forward
plausible mechanisms for gas-based metabolism by extant microorganisms. Although 
the reactions are based on metal centres, the protein matrix regulates reactivity
and substrate and product trafficking through internal pathways, specific
ligation and dielectricity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08299 
PMID: 19675641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):899-903. doi: 10.1038/nature08175. Epub 2009 Jul
26.

Intrinsic light response of retinal horizontal cells of teleosts.

Cheng N(1), Tsunenari T, Yau KW.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. chengn2@mail.nih.gov

The discovery of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells has
overthrown the long-held belief that rods and cones are the exclusive retinal
photoreceptors. Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells use
melanopsin as the photopigment, and mediate non-image-forming visual functions
such as circadian photoentrainment. In fish, in situ hybridization studies
indicated that melanopsin is present in retinal horizontal cells-lateral
association neurons critical for creating the centre-surround receptive fields of
visual neurons. This raises the question of whether fish horizontal cells are
intrinsically photosensitive. This notion was examined previously in flat-mount
roach retina, but all horizontal-cell light response disappeared after synaptic
transmission was blocked, making any conclusion difficult to reach. To examine
this question directly, we have now recorded from single, acutely dissociated
horizontal cells from catfish and goldfish. We found that light induced a
response in catfish cone horizontal cells, but not rod horizontal cells,
consisting of a modulation of the nifedipine-sensitive, voltage-gated calcium
current. The light response was extremely slow, lasting for many minutes. Similar
light responses were observed in a high percentage of goldfish horizontal cells. 
We have cloned two melanopsin genes and one vertebrate ancient (VA) opsin gene
from catfish. In situ hybridization indicated that melanopsin, but less likely VA
opsin, was expressed in the horizontal-cell layer of catfish retina. This
intrinsic light response may serve to modulate, over a long timescale, lateral
inhibition mediated by these cells. Thus, at least in some vertebrates, there are
retinal non-rod/non-cone photoreceptors involved primarily in image-forming
vision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08175 
PMCID: PMC2737592
PMID: 19633653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):894-898. doi: 10.1038/nature08187. Epub 2009 Jul
26.

Programming cells by multiplex genome engineering and accelerated evolution.

Wang HH(#)(1)(2)(3), Isaacs FJ(#)(1), Carr PA(4)(5), Sun ZZ(6), Xu G(6), Forest
CR(7), Church GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(2)Program in Biophysics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.
(3)Program in Medical Engineering Medical Physics, Harvard-MIT Division of Health
Sciences and Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)The Center for Bits and Atoms, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(5)Media Lab, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA.
(6)Harvard College, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(7)George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

The breadth of genomic diversity found among organisms in nature allows
populations to adapt to diverse environments. However, genomic diversity is
difficult to generate in the laboratory and new phenotypes do not easily arise on
practical timescales. Although in vitro and directed evolution methods have
created genetic variants with usefully altered phenotypes, these methods are
limited to laborious and serial manipulation of single genes and are not used for
parallel and continuous directed evolution of gene networks or genomes. Here, we 
describe multiplex automated genome engineering (MAGE) for large-scale
programming and evolution of cells. MAGE simultaneously targets many locations on
the chromosome for modification in a single cell or across a population of cells,
thus producing combinatorial genomic diversity. Because the process is cyclical
and scalable, we constructed prototype devices that automate the MAGE technology 
to facilitate rapid and continuous generation of a diverse set of genetic changes
(mismatches, insertions, deletions). We applied MAGE to optimize the
1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate (DXP) biosynthesis pathway in Escherichia coli to 
overproduce the industrially important isoprenoid lycopene. Twenty-four genetic
components in the DXP pathway were modified simultaneously using a complex pool
of synthetic DNA, creating over 4.3 billion combinatorial genomic variants per
day. We isolated variants with more than fivefold increase in lycopene production
within 3 days, a significant improvement over existing metabolic engineering
techniques. Our multiplex approach embraces engineering in the context of
evolution by expediting the design and evolution of organisms with new and
improved properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08187 
PMCID: PMC4590770
PMID: 19633652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):914-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08196. Epub 2009 Jul 26.

Multiple roles for MRE11 at uncapped telomeres.

Deng Y(1), Guo X, Ferguson DO, Chang S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Box 1010, The M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515
Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Progressive telomere attrition or uncapping of the shelterin complex elicits a
DNA damage response as a result of a cell's inability to distinguish
dysfunctional telomeric ends from DNA double-strand breaks. Telomere deprotection
activates both ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and telangiectasia and
Rad3-related (ATR) kinase-dependent DNA damage response pathways, and promotes
efficient non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) of dysfunctional telomeres. The
mammalian MRE11-RAD50-NBS1 (MRN; NBS1 is also known as NBN) complex interacts
with ATM to sense chromosomal double-strand breaks and coordinate global DNA
damage responses. Although the MRN complex accumulates at dysfunctional
telomeres, it is not known whether mammalian MRN promotes repair at these sites. 
Here we address this question by using mouse alleles that either inactivate the
entire MRN complex or eliminate only the nuclease activities of MRE11 (ref. 8).
We show that cells lacking MRN do not activate ATM when telomeric repeat binding 
factor 2 (TRF2) is removed from telomeres, and ligase 4 (LIG4)-dependent
chromosome end-to-end fusions are markedly reduced. Residual chromatid fusions
involve only telomeres generated by leading strand synthesis. Notably, although
cells deficient for MRE11 nuclease activity efficiently activate ATM and recruit 
53BP1 (also known as TP53BP1) to deprotected telomeres, the 3' telomeric overhang
persists to prevent NHEJ-mediated chromosomal fusions. Removal of shelterin
proteins that protect the 3' overhang in the setting of MRE11 nuclease deficiency
restores LIG4-dependent chromosome fusions. Our data indicate a critical role for
the MRN complex in sensing dysfunctional telomeres, and show that in the absence 
of TRF2, MRE11 nuclease activity removes the 3' telomeric overhang to promote
chromosome fusions. MRE11 can also protect newly replicated leading strand
telomeres from NHEJ by promoting 5' strand resection to generate POT1a-TPP1-bound
3' overhangs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08196 
PMCID: PMC2760383
PMID: 19633651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):904-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08240. Epub 2009 Jul 20.

Gain-of-function of mutated C-CBL tumour suppressor in myeloid neoplasms.

Sanada M(1), Suzuki T, Shih LY, Otsu M, Kato M, Yamazaki S, Tamura A, Honda H,
Sakata-Yanagimoto M, Kumano K, Oda H, Yamagata T, Takita J, Gotoh N, Nakazaki K, 
Kawamata N, Onodera M, Nobuyoshi M, Hayashi Y, Harada H, Kurokawa M, Chiba S,
Mori H, Ozawa K, Omine M, Hirai H, Nakauchi H, Koeffler HP, Ogawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genomics Project, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):804-7.

Acquired uniparental disomy (aUPD) is a common feature of cancer genomes, leading
to loss of heterozygosity. aUPD is associated not only with loss-of-function
mutations of tumour suppressor genes, but also with gain-of-function mutations of
proto-oncogenes. Here we show unique gain-of-function mutations of the C-CBL
(also known as CBL) tumour suppressor that are tightly associated with aUPD of
the 11q arm in myeloid neoplasms showing myeloproliferative features. The C-CBL
proto-oncogene, a cellular homologue of v-Cbl, encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase and
negatively regulates signal transduction of tyrosine kinases. Homozygous C-CBL
mutations were found in most 11q-aUPD-positive myeloid malignancies. Although the
C-CBL mutations were oncogenic in NIH3T3 cells, c-Cbl was shown to functionally
and genetically act as a tumour suppressor. C-CBL mutants did not have E3
ubiquitin ligase activity, but inhibited that of wild-type C-CBL and CBL-B (also 
known as CBLB), leading to prolonged activation of tyrosine kinases after
cytokine stimulation. c-Cbl(-/-) haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs)
showed enhanced sensitivity to a variety of cytokines compared to c-Cbl(+/+)
HSPCs, and transduction of C-CBL mutants into c-Cbl(-/-) HSPCs further augmented 
their sensitivities to a broader spectrum of cytokines, including stem-cell
factor (SCF, also known as KITLG), thrombopoietin (TPO, also known as THPO), IL3 
and FLT3 ligand (FLT3LG), indicating the presence of a gain-of-function that
could not be attributed to a simple loss-of-function. The gain-of-function
effects of C-CBL mutants on cytokine sensitivity of HSPCs largely disappeared in 
a c-Cbl(+/+) background or by co-transduction of wild-type C-CBL, which suggests 
the pathogenic importance of loss of wild-type C-CBL alleles found in most cases 
of C-CBL-mutated myeloid neoplasms. Our findings provide a new insight into a
role of gain-of-function mutations of a tumour suppressor associated with aUPD in
the pathogenesis of some myeloid cancer subsets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08240 
PMID: 19620960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):888-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08176. Epub 2009 Jul 13.

Pelvic claspers confirm chondrichthyan-like internal fertilization in
arthrodires.

Ahlberg P(1), Trinajstic K, Johanson Z, Long J.

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Evolutionary Organismal Biology, Department of Physiology and
Developmental Biology, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18A, 752 36 Uppsala,
Sweden.

Recent finds demonstrate that internal fertilization and viviparity (live birth) 
were more widespread in the Placodermi, an extinct group of armoured fishes, than
was previously realized. Placoderms represent the sister group of the crown group
jawed vertebrates (Gnathostomata), making their mode(s) of reproduction
potentially informative about primitive gnathostome conditions. An ossified
pelvic fin basipterygium discovered in the arthrodire Incisoscutum ritchiei was
hypothesized to be identical in males and females, with males presumed to have an
additional cartilaginous element or series forming a clasper. Here we report the 
discovery of a completely ossified pelvic clasper in Incisoscutum ritchiei (WAM
03.3.28) which shows that this interpretation was incorrect: the basipterygium
described previously is in fact unique to females. The male clasper is a slender 
rod attached to a square basal plate that articulates directly with the pelvis.
It carries a small cap of dermal bone covered in denticles and small hooks that
may be homologous with the much larger dermal component of the ptyctodont
clasper.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08176 
PMID: 19597477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):863-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08212. Epub 2009 Jul 8.

Chd1 regulates open chromatin and pluripotency of embryonic stem cells.

Gaspar-Maia A(1), Alajem A, Polesso F, Sridharan R, Mason MJ, Heidersbach A,
Ramalho-Santos J, McManus MT, Plath K, Meshorer E, Ramalho-Santos M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ob/Gyn and Pathology, Center for Reproductive Sciences and Eli
and Edythe Broad Center of Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research,
University of California, San Francisco, 513 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco,
California 94143-0525, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):802-3.

An open chromatin largely devoid of heterochromatin is a hallmark of stem cells. 
It remains unknown whether an open chromatin is necessary for the differentiation
potential of stem cells, and which molecules are needed to maintain open
chromatin. Here we show that the chromatin remodelling factor Chd1 is required to
maintain the open chromatin of pluripotent mouse embryonic stem cells. Chd1 is a 
euchromatin protein that associates with the promoters of active genes, and
downregulation of Chd1 leads to accumulation of heterochromatin. Chd1-deficient
embryonic stem cells are no longer pluripotent, because they are incapable of
giving rise to primitive endoderm and have a high propensity for neural
differentiation. Furthermore, Chd1 is required for efficient reprogramming of
fibroblasts to the pluripotent stem cell state. Our results indicate that Chd1 is
essential for open chromatin and pluripotency of embryonic stem cells, and for
somatic cell reprogramming to the pluripotent state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08212 
PMCID: PMC3891576
PMID: 19587682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 2009 Aug 13;460(7257):909-13. doi: 10.1038/nature08210. Epub 2009 Jul 5.

A role for Lin28 in primordial germ-cell development and germ-cell malignancy.

West JA(1), Viswanathan SR, Yabuuchi A, Cunniff K, Takeuchi A, Park IH, Sero JE, 
Zhu H, Perez-Atayde A, Frazier AL, Surani MA, Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston and the 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, MA 02115, USA.

The rarity and inaccessibility of the earliest primordial germ cells (PGCs) in
the mouse embryo thwart efforts to investigate molecular mechanisms of germ-cell 
specification. stella (also called Dppa3) marks the rare founder population of
the germ lineage. Here we differentiate mouse embryonic stem cells carrying a
stella transgenic reporter into putative PGCs in vitro. The Stella(+) cells
possess a transcriptional profile similar to embryo-derived PGCs, and like their 
counterparts in vivo, lose imprints in a time-dependent manner. Using inhibitory 
RNAs to screen candidate genes for effects on the development of Stella(+) cells 
in vitro, we discovered that Lin28, a negative regulator of let-7 microRNA
processing, is essential for proper PGC development. Furthermore, we show that
Blimp1 (also called Prdm1), a let-7 target and a master regulator of PGC
specification, can rescue the effect of Lin28 deficiency during PGC development, 
thereby establishing a mechanism of action for Lin28 during PGC specification.
Overexpression of Lin28 promotes formation of Stella(+) cells in vitro and PGCs
in chimaeric embryos, and is associated with human germ-cell tumours. The
differentiation of putative PGCs from embryonic stem cells in vitro recapitulates
the early stages of gamete development in vivo, and provides an accessible system
for discovering novel genes involved in germ-cell development and malignancy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08210 
PMCID: PMC2729657
PMID: 19578360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):733-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08204.

Fluid and deformation regime of an advancing subduction system at Marlborough,
New Zealand.

Wannamaker PE(1), Caldwell TG, Jiracek GR, Maris V, Hill GJ, Ogawa Y, Bibby HM,
Bennie SL, Heise W.

Author information: 
(1)University of Utah, Energy and Geoscience Institute, 423 Wakara Way, Suite
300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108, USA.

Newly forming subduction zones on Earth can provide insights into the evolution
of major fault zone geometries from shallow levels to deep in the lithosphere and
into the role of fluids in element transport and in promoting rock failure by
several modes. The transpressional subduction regime of New Zealand, which is
advancing laterally to the southwest below the Marlborough strike-slip fault
system of the northern South Island, is an ideal setting in which to investigate 
these processes. Here we acquired a dense, high-quality transect of
magnetotelluric soundings across the system, yielding an electrical resistivity
cross-section to depths beyond 100 km. Our data imply three distinct processes
connecting fluid generation along the upper mantle plate interface to rock
deformation in the crust as the subduction zone develops. Massive fluid release
just inland of the trench induces fault-fracture meshes through the crust above
that undoubtedly weaken it as regional shear initiates. Narrow strike-slip faults
in the shallow brittle regime of interior Marlborough diffuse in width upon
entering the deeper ductile domain aided by fluids and do not project as narrow
deformation zones. Deep subduction-generated fluids rise from 100 km or more and 
invade upper crustal seismogenic zones that have exhibited historic great
earthquakes on high-angle thrusts that are poorly oriented for failure under dry 
conditions. The fluid-deformation connections described in our work emphasize the
need to include metamorphic and fluid transport processes in geodynamic models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08204 
PMID: 19661914 


364. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):724-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08171.

Observation of strong coupling between a micromechanical resonator and an optical
cavity field.

Gröblacher S(1), Hammerer K, Vanner MR, Aspelmeyer M.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (IQOQI), Austrian
Academy of Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, A-1090 Vienna, Austria [2] Faculty of
Physics, University of Vienna, Strudlhofgasse 4, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

Achieving coherent quantum control over massive mechanical resonators is a
current research goal. Nano- and micromechanical devices can be coupled to a
variety of systems, for example to single electrons by electrostatic or magnetic 
coupling, and to photons by radiation pressure or optical dipole forces. So far, 
all such experiments have operated in a regime of weak coupling, in which
reversible energy exchange between the mechanical device and its coupled partner 
is suppressed by fast decoherence of the individual systems to their local
environments. Controlled quantum experiments are in principle not possible in
such a regime, but instead require strong coupling. So far, this has been
demonstrated only between microscopic quantum systems, such as atoms and photons 
(in the context of cavity quantum electrodynamics) or solid state qubits and
photons. Strong coupling is an essential requirement for the preparation of
mechanical quantum states, such as squeezed or entangled states, and also for
using mechanical resonators in the context of quantum information processing, for
example, as quantum transducers. Here we report the observation of optomechanical
normal mode splitting, which provides unambiguous evidence for strong coupling of
cavity photons to a mechanical resonator. This paves the way towards full quantum
optical control of nano- and micromechanical devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08171 
PMID: 19661913 


365. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):717-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08220.

A high stellar velocity dispersion for a compact massive galaxy at redshift z =
2.186.

van Dokkum PG(1), Kriek M, Franx M.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, Yale University, 260 Whitney Avenue, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA.

Recent studies have found that the oldest and most luminous galaxies in the early
Universe are surprisingly compact, having stellar masses similar to present-day
elliptical galaxies but much smaller sizes. This finding has attracted
considerable attention, as it suggests that massive galaxies have grown in size
by a factor of about five over the past ten billion years (10 Gyr). A key test of
these results is a determination of the stellar kinematics of one of the compact 
galaxies: if the sizes of these objects are as extreme as has been claimed, their
stars are expected to have much higher velocities than those in present-day
galaxies of the same mass. Here we report a measurement of the stellar velocity
dispersion of a massive compact galaxy at redshift z = 2.186, corresponding to a 
look-back time of 10.7 Gyr. The velocity dispersion is very high at km s(-1),
consistent with the mass and compactness of the galaxy inferred from photometric 
data. This would indicate significant recent structural and dynamical evolution
of massive galaxies over the past 10 Gyr. The uncertainty in the dispersion was
determined from simulations that include the effects of noise and template
mismatch. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that some subtle systematic 
effect may have influenced the analysis, given the low signal-to-noise ratio of
our spectrum.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08220 
PMID: 19661911 


366. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):701-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08127.

Beyond the myth of the supernova-remnant origin of cosmic rays.

Butt Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)High Energy Astrophysics Division, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

The origin of Galactic cosmic-ray ions has remained an enigma for almost a
century. Although it has generally been thought that they are accelerated in the 
shock waves associated with powerful supernova explosions-for which there have
been recent claims of evidence-the mystery is far from resolved. In fact, we may 
be on the wrong track altogether in looking for isolated regions of cosmic-ray
acceleration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08127 
PMID: 19661909 


367. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):741-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08230.

Advances in development reverse fertility declines.

Myrskylä M(1), Kohler HP, Billari FC.

Author information: 
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):693-4.

During the twentieth century, the global population has gone through
unprecedented increases in economic and social development that coincided with
substantial declines in human fertility and population growth rates. The negative
association of fertility with economic and social development has therefore
become one of the most solidly established and generally accepted empirical
regularities in the social sciences. As a result of this close connection between
development and fertility decline, more than half of the global population now
lives in regions with below-replacement fertility (less than 2.1 children per
woman). In many highly developed countries, the trend towards low fertility has
also been deemed irreversible. Rapid population ageing, and in some cases the
prospect of significant population decline, have therefore become a central
socioeconomic concern and policy challenge. Here we show, using new
cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses of the total fertility rate and the
human development index (HDI), a fundamental change in the well-established
negative relationship between fertility and development as the global population 
entered the twenty-first century. Although development continues to promote
fertility decline at low and medium HDI levels, our analyses show that at
advanced HDI levels, further development can reverse the declining trend in
fertility. The previously negative development-fertility relationship has become 
J-shaped, with the HDI being positively associated with fertility among highly
developed countries. This reversal of fertility decline as a result of continued 
economic and social development has the potential to slow the rates of population
ageing, thereby ameliorating the social and economic problems that have been
associated with the emergence and persistence of very low fertility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08230 
PMID: 19661915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):720-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08228.

Observed variations of methane on Mars unexplained by known atmospheric chemistry
and physics.

Lefèvre F(1), Forget F.

Author information: 
(1)LATMOS, UPMC Université Paris 06, CNRS, Paris 75005, France.
franck.lefevre@upmc.fr

The detection of methane on Mars has revived the possibility of past or extant
life on this planet, despite the fact that an abiogenic origin is thought to be
equally plausible. An intriguing aspect of the recent observations of methane on 
Mars is that methane concentrations appear to be locally enhanced and change with
the seasons. However, methane has a photochemical lifetime of several centuries, 
and is therefore expected to have a spatially uniform distribution on the planet.
Here we use a global climate model of Mars with coupled chemistry to examine the 
implications of the recently observed variations of Martian methane for our
understanding of the chemistry of methane. We find that photochemistry as
currently understood does not produce measurable variations in methane
concentrations, even in the case of a current, local and episodic methane
release. In contrast, we find that the condensation-sublimation cycle of Mars'
carbon dioxide atmosphere can generate large-scale methane variations differing
from those observed. In order to reproduce local methane enhancements similar to 
those recently reported, we show that an atmospheric lifetime of less than 200
days is necessary, even if a local source of methane is only active around the
time of the observation itself. This implies an unidentified methane loss process
that is 600 times faster than predicted by standard photochemistry. The existence
of such a fast loss in the Martian atmosphere is difficult to reconcile with the 
observed distribution of other trace gas species. In the case of a destruction
mechanism only active at the surface of Mars, destruction of methane must occur
with an even shorter timescale of the order of approximately 1 hour to explain
the observations. If recent observations of spatial and temporal variations of
methane are confirmed, this would suggest an extraordinarily harsh environment
for the survival of organics on the planet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08228 
PMID: 19661912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):711-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08237.

Architecture and secondary structure of an entire HIV-1 RNA genome.

Watts JM(1), Dang KK, Gorelick RJ, Leonard CW, Bess JW Jr, Swanstrom R, Burch CL,
Weeks KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599-3290, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):696-8.

Single-stranded RNA viruses encompass broad classes of infectious agents and
cause the common cold, cancer, AIDS and other serious health threats. Viral
replication is regulated at many levels, including the use of conserved genomic
RNA structures. Most potential regulatory elements in viral RNA genomes are
uncharacterized. Here we report the structure of an entire HIV-1 genome at single
nucleotide resolution using SHAPE, a high-throughput RNA analysis technology. The
genome encodes protein structure at two levels. In addition to the correspondence
between RNA and protein primary sequences, a correlation exists between high
levels of RNA structure and sequences that encode inter-domain loops in HIV
proteins. This correlation suggests that RNA structure modulates ribosome
elongation to promote native protein folding. Some simple genome elements
previously shown to be important, including the ribosomal gag-pol frameshift
stem-loop, are components of larger RNA motifs. We also identify organizational
principles for unstructured RNA regions, including splice site acceptors and
hypervariable regions. These results emphasize that the HIV-1 genome and,
potentially, many coding RNAs are punctuated by previously unrecognized
regulatory motifs and that extensive RNA structure constitutes an important
component of the genetic code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08237 
PMCID: PMC2724670
PMID: 19661910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):687. doi: 10.1038/460687a.

Modelling to contain pandemics.

Epstein JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center on Social and Economic Dynamics at the Brookings Institution, 1775
Massachusetts Avenue, Washington DC 20036, USA. jepstein@brookings.edu

Agent-based computational models can capture irrational behaviour, complex social
networks and global scale--all essential in confronting H1N1, says Joshua M.
Epstein.

DOI: 10.1038/460687a 
PMCID: PMC3785367
PMID: 19661897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):667. doi: 10.1038/460667b.

Science under attack.

[No authors listed]

Congress should stop playing politics with the peer-review process.

DOI: 10.1038/460667b 
PMID: 19661864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):762-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08184. Epub 2009 Jul 15.

Proteome-wide cellular protein concentrations of the human pathogen Leptospira
interrogans.

Malmström J(1), Beck M, Schmidt A, Lange V, Deutsch EW, Aebersold R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich, Wolfgang Pauli-Strasse 16,
CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Mass-spectrometry-based methods for relative proteome quantification have broadly
affected life science research. However, important research directions,
particularly those involving mathematical modelling and simulation of biological 
processes, also critically depend on absolutely quantitative data--that is,
knowledge of the concentration of the expressed proteins as a function of
cellular state. Until now, absolute protein concentration measurements of a
considerable fraction of the proteome (73%) have only been derived from
genetically altered Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells, a technique that is not
directly portable from yeast to other species. Here we present a
mass-spectrometry-based strategy to determine the absolute quantity, that is, the
average number of protein copies per cell in a cell population, for a large
fraction of the proteome in genetically unperturbed cells. Applying the
technology to the human pathogen Leptospira interrogans, a spirochete responsible
for leptospirosis, we generated an absolute protein abundance scale for 83% of
the mass-spectrometry-detectable proteome, from cells at different states. Taking
advantage of the unique cellular dimensions of L. interrogans, we used
cryo-electron tomography morphological measurements to verify, at the single-cell
level, the average absolute abundance values of selected proteins determined by
mass spectrometry on a population of cells. Because the strategy is relatively
fast and applicable to any cell type, we expect that it will become a cornerstone
of quantitative biology and systems biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08184 
PMCID: PMC2723184
PMID: 19606093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):758-61. doi: 10.1038/nature08167. Epub 2009 Jul 13.

Switch in FGF signalling initiates glial differentiation in the Drosophila eye.

Franzdóttir SR(1), Engelen D, Yuva-Aydemir Y, Schmidt I, Aho A, Klämbt C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Neurobiologie, Universität Münster, Badestr. 9, D-48149 Münster, 
Germany.

The formation of a complex nervous system requires the intricate interaction of
neurons and glial cells. Glial cells generally migrate over long distances before
they initiate their differentiation, which leads to wrapping and insulation of
axonal processes. The molecular pathways coordinating the switch from glial
migration to glial differentiation are largely unknown. Here we demonstrate that,
within the Drosophila eye imaginal disc, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)
signalling coordinates glial proliferation, migration and subsequent axonal
wrapping. Glial differentiation in the Drosophila eye disc requires a succession 
from glia-glia interaction to glia-neuron interaction. The neuronal component of 
the fly eye develops in the peripheral nervous system within the eye-antennal
imaginal disc, whereas glial cells originate from a pool of
central-nervous-system-derived progenitors and migrate onto the eye imaginal
disc. Initially, glial-derived Pyramus, an FGF8-like ligand, modulates glial cell
number and motility. A switch to neuronally expressed Thisbe, a second FGF8-like 
ligand, then induces glial differentiation. This switch is accompanied by an
alteration in the intracellular signalling pathway through which the FGF receptor
channels information into the cell. Our findings reveal how a switch from
glia-glia interactions to glia-neuron interactions can trigger formation of glial
membrane around axonal trajectories. These results disclose an evolutionarily
conserved control mechanism of axonal wrapping, indicating that Drosophila might 
serve as a model to understand glial disorders in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08167 
PMID: 19597479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):728-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08213. Epub 2009 Jul 8.

The late Precambrian greening of the Earth.

Knauth LP(1), Kennedy MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Space Exploration, Arizona State University, Tempe,
Arizona 85287-1404, USA. Knauth@asu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):698-9.

Many aspects of the carbon cycle can be assessed from temporal changes in the
(13)C/(12)C ratio of oceanic bicarbonate. (13)C/(12)C can temporarily rise when
large amounts of (13)C-depleted photosynthetic organic matter are buried at
enhanced rates, and can decrease if phytomass is rapidly oxidized or if low (13)C
is rapidly released from methane clathrates. Assuming that variations of the
marine (13)C/(12)C ratio are directly recorded in carbonate rocks, thousands of
carbon isotope analyses of late Precambrian examples have been published to
correlate these otherwise undatable strata and to document perturbations to the
carbon cycle just before the great expansion of metazoan life. Low (13)C/(12)C in
some Neoproterozoic carbonates is considered evidence of carbon cycle
perturbations unique to the Precambrian. These include complete oxidation of all 
organic matter in the ocean and complete productivity collapse such that
low-(13)C/(12)C hydrothermal CO(2) becomes the main input of carbon. Here we
compile all published oxygen and carbon isotope data for Neoproterozoic marine
carbonates, and consider them in terms of processes known to alter the isotopic
composition during transformation of the initial precipitate into
limestone/dolostone. We show that the combined oxygen and carbon isotope
systematics are identical to those of well-understood Phanerozoic examples that
lithified in coastal pore fluids, receiving a large groundwater influx of
photosynthetic carbon from terrestrial phytomass. Rather than being perturbations
to the carbon cycle, widely reported decreases in (13)C/(12)C in Neoproterozoic
carbonates are more easily interpreted in the same way as is done for Phanerozoic
examples. This influx of terrestrial carbon is not apparent in carbonates older
than approximately 850 Myr, so we infer an explosion of photosynthesizing
communities on late Precambrian land surfaces. As a result, biotically enhanced
weathering generated carbon-bearing soils on a large scale and their detrital
sedimentation sequestered carbon. This facilitated a rise in O(2) necessary for
the expansion of multicellular life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08213 
PMID: 19587681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):705-10. doi: 10.1038/nature08195. Epub 2009 Jul 5.

miR-145 and miR-143 regulate smooth muscle cell fate and plasticity.

Cordes KR(1), Sheehy NT, White MP, Berry EC, Morton SU, Muth AN, Lee TH, Miano
JM, Ivey KN, Srivastava D.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California
94158, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are regulators of myriad cellular events, but evidence for a
single miRNA that can efficiently differentiate multipotent stem cells into a
specific lineage or regulate direct reprogramming of cells into an alternative
cell fate has been elusive. Here we show that miR-145 and miR-143 are
co-transcribed in multipotent murine cardiac progenitors before becoming
localized to smooth muscle cells, including neural crest stem-cell-derived
vascular smooth muscle cells. miR-145 and miR-143 were direct transcriptional
targets of serum response factor, myocardin and Nkx2-5 (NK2 transcription factor 
related, locus 5) and were downregulated in injured or atherosclerotic vessels
containing proliferating, less differentiated smooth muscle cells. miR-145 was
necessary for myocardin-induced reprogramming of adult fibroblasts into smooth
muscle cells and sufficient to induce differentiation of multipotent neural crest
stem cells into vascular smooth muscle. Furthermore, miR-145 and miR-143
cooperatively targeted a network of transcription factors, including Klf4
(Kruppel-like factor 4), myocardin and Elk-1 (ELK1, member of ETS oncogene
family), to promote differentiation and repress proliferation of smooth muscle
cells. These findings demonstrate that miR-145 can direct the smooth muscle fate 
and that miR-145 and miR-143 function to regulate the quiescent versus
proliferative phenotype of smooth muscle cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08195 
PMCID: PMC2769203
PMID: 19578358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):748-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08185. Epub 2009 Jul 1.

Common polygenic variation contributes to risk of schizophrenia and bipolar
disorder.

International Schizophrenia Consortium, Purcell SM, Wray NR, Stone JL, Visscher
PM, O'Donovan MC, Sullivan PF, Sklar P.

Collaborators: Purcell SM, Wray NR, Stone JL, Visscher PM, O'Donovan MC, Sullivan
PF, Sklar P, Purcell SM, Stone JL, Sullivan PF, Ruderfer DM, McQuillin A, Morris 
DW, O'Dushlaine CT, Corvin A, Holmans PA, O'Donovan MC, Sklar P, Wray NR,
Macgregor S, Sklar P, Sullivan PF, O'Donovan MC, Visscher PM, Gurling H,
Blackwood DH, Corvin A, Craddock NJ, Gill M, Hultman CM, Kirov GK, Lichtenstein
P, McQuillin A, Muir WJ, O'Donovan MC, Owen MJ, Pato CN, Purcell SM, Scolnick EM,
St Clair D, Stone JL, Sullivan PF, Sklar P, O'Donovan MC, Kirov GK, Craddock NJ, 
Holmans PA, Williams NM, Georgieva L, Nikolov I, Norton N, Williams H, Toncheva
D, Milanova V, Owen MJ, Hultman CM, Lichtenstein P, Thelander EF, Sullivan P,
Morris DW, O'Dushlaine CT, Kenny E, Quinn EM, Gill M, Corvin A, McQuillin A,
Choudhury K, Datta S, Pimm J, Thirumalai S, Puri V, Krasucki R, Lawrence J,
Quested D, Bass N, Gurling H, Crombie C, Fraser G, Kuan SL, Walker N, St Clair D,
Blackwood DH, Muir WJ, McGhee KA, Pickard B, Malloy P, Maclean AW, Van Beck M,
Wray NR, Macgregor S, Visscher PM, Pato MT, Medeiros H, Middleton F, Carvalho C, 
Morley C, Fanous A, Conti D, Knowles JA, Ferreira CP, Macedo A, Azevedo MH, Pato 
CN, Stone JL, Ruderfer DM, Kirby AN, Ferreira MA, Daly MJ, Purcell SM, Sklar P,
Purcell SM, Stone JL, Chambert K, Ruderfer DM, Kuruvilla F, Gabriel SB, Ardlie K,
Moran JL, Daly MJ, Scolnick EM, Sklar P.

Comment in
    Nature. 2018 Feb 1;554(7690):32.

Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder with a lifetime risk of about 1%,
characterized by hallucinations, delusions and cognitive deficits, with
heritability estimated at up to 80%. We performed a genome-wide association study
of 3,322 European individuals with schizophrenia and 3,587 controls. Here we
show, using two analytic approaches, the extent to which common genetic variation
underlies the risk of schizophrenia. First, we implicate the major
histocompatibility complex. Second, we provide molecular genetic evidence for a
substantial polygenic component to the risk of schizophrenia involving thousands 
of common alleles of very small effect. We show that this component also
contributes to the risk of bipolar disorder, but not to several non-psychiatric
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08185 
PMCID: PMC3912837
PMID: 19571811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):753-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08192. Epub 2009 Jul 1.

Common variants on chromosome 6p22.1 are associated with schizophrenia.

Shi J(1), Levinson DF, Duan J, Sanders AR, Zheng Y, Pe'er I, Dudbridge F, Holmans
PA, Whittemore AS, Mowry BJ, Olincy A, Amin F, Cloninger CR, Silverman JM,
Buccola NG, Byerley WF, Black DW, Crowe RR, Oksenberg JR, Mirel DB, Kendler KS,
Freedman R, Gejman PV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94304, USA.

Schizophrenia, a devastating psychiatric disorder, has a prevalence of 0.5-1%,
with high heritability (80-85%) and complex transmission. Recent studies
implicate rare, large, high-penetrance copy number variants in some cases, but
the genes or biological mechanisms that underlie susceptibility are not known.
Here we show that schizophrenia is significantly associated with single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the extended major histocompatibility complex 
region on chromosome 6. We carried out a genome-wide association study of common 
SNPs in the Molecular Genetics of Schizophrenia (MGS) case-control sample, and
then a meta-analysis of data from the MGS, International Schizophrenia Consortium
and SGENE data sets. No MGS finding achieved genome-wide statistical
significance. In the meta-analysis of European-ancestry subjects (8,008 cases,
19,077 controls), significant association with schizophrenia was observed in a
region of linkage disequilibrium on chromosome 6p22.1 (P = 9.54 x 10(-9)). This
region includes a histone gene cluster and several immunity-related
genes--possibly implicating aetiological mechanisms involving chromatin
modification, transcriptional regulation, autoimmunity and/or infection. These
results demonstrate that common schizophrenia susceptibility alleles can be
detected. The characterization of these signals will suggest important directions
for research on susceptibility mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08192 
PMCID: PMC2775422
PMID: 19571809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):744-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08186. Epub 2009 Jul 1.

Common variants conferring risk of schizophrenia.

Stefansson H(1), Ophoff RA, Steinberg S, Andreassen OA, Cichon S, Rujescu D,
Werge T, Pietiläinen OP, Mors O, Mortensen PB, Sigurdsson E, Gustafsson O,
Nyegaard M, Tuulio-Henriksson A, Ingason A, Hansen T, Suvisaari J, Lonnqvist J,
Paunio T, Børglum AD, Hartmann A, Fink-Jensen A, Nordentoft M, Hougaard D,
Norgaard-Pedersen B, Böttcher Y, Olesen J, Breuer R, Möller HJ, Giegling I,
Rasmussen HB, Timm S, Mattheisen M, Bitter I, Réthelyi JM, Magnusdottir BB,
Sigmundsson T, Olason P, Masson G, Gulcher JR, Haraldsson M, Fossdal R,
Thorgeirsson TE, Thorsteinsdottir U, Ruggeri M, Tosato S, Franke B, Strengman E, 
Kiemeney LA; Genetic Risk and Outcome in Psychosis (GROUP), Melle I, Djurovic S, 
Abramova L, Kaleda V, Sanjuan J, de Frutos R, Bramon E, Vassos E, Fraser G,
Ettinger U, Picchioni M, Walker N, Toulopoulou T, Need AC, Ge D, Yoon JL, Shianna
KV, Freimer NB, Cantor RM, Murray R, Kong A, Golimbet V, Carracedo A, Arango C,
Costas J, Jönsson EG, Terenius L, Agartz I, Petursson H, Nöthen MM, Rietschel M, 
Matthews PM, Muglia P, Peltonen L, St Clair D, Goldstein DB, Stefansson K,
Collier DA.

Collaborators: Kahn RS, Linszen DH, van Os J, Wiersma D, Bruggeman R, Cahn W, de 
Haan L, Krabbendam L, Myin-Germeys I.

Author information: 
(1)deCODE genetics, Sturlugata 8, IS-101 Reykjavik, Iceland.

Schizophrenia is a complex disorder, caused by both genetic and environmental
factors and their interactions. Research on pathogenesis has traditionally
focused on neurotransmitter systems in the brain, particularly those involving
dopamine. Schizophrenia has been considered a separate disease for over a
century, but in the absence of clear biological markers, diagnosis has
historically been based on signs and symptoms. A fundamental message emerging
from genome-wide association studies of copy number variations (CNVs) associated 
with the disease is that its genetic basis does not necessarily conform to
classical nosological disease boundaries. Certain CNVs confer not only high
relative risk of schizophrenia but also of other psychiatric disorders. The
structural variations associated with schizophrenia can involve several genes and
the phenotypic syndromes, or the 'genomic disorders', have not yet been
characterized. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based genome-wide association
studies with the potential to implicate individual genes in complex diseases may 
reveal underlying biological pathways. Here we combined SNP data from several
large genome-wide scans and followed up the most significant association signals.
We found significant association with several markers spanning the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) region on chromosome 6p21.3-22.1, a marker
located upstream of the neurogranin gene (NRGN) on 11q24.2 and a marker in intron
four of transcription factor 4 (TCF4) on 18q21.2. Our findings implicating the
MHC region are consistent with an immune component to schizophrenia risk, whereas
the association with NRGN and TCF4 points to perturbation of pathways involved in
brain development, memory and cognition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08186 
PMCID: PMC3077530
PMID: 19571808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):737-40. doi: 10.1038/nature08169. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

New flutes document the earliest musical tradition in southwestern Germany.

Conard NJ(1), Malina M, Münzel SC.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Altere Urgeschichte und Quartärökologie, Institut für Ur- und
Frühgeschichte und Archäologie des Mittelalters, Universität Tübingen, Schloss
Hohentübingen, 72070 Tübingen, Germany. nicholas.conard@uni-tuebingen.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):695-6.

Considerable debate surrounds claims for early evidence of music in the
archaeological record. Researchers universally accept the existence of complex
musical instruments as an indication of fully modern behaviour and advanced
symbolic communication but, owing to the scarcity of finds, the archaeological
record of the evolution and spread of music remains incomplete. Although
arguments have been made for Neanderthal musical traditions and the presence of
musical instruments in Middle Palaeolithic assemblages, concrete evidence to
support these claims is lacking. Here we report the discovery of bone and ivory
flutes from the early Aurignacian period of southwestern Germany. These finds
demonstrate the presence of a well-established musical tradition at the time when
modern humans colonized Europe, more than 35,000 calendar years ago. Other than
the caves of the Swabian Jura, the earliest secure archaeological evidence for
music comes from sites in France and Austria and post-date 30,000 years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08169 
PMID: 19553935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):654.

Balancing belief and bioscience.

Russo G.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):167.

Can religious belief really be reconciled with a life in science? Gene Russo
contemplates the contradictions.


PMID: 19650232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):632-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08177.

Presenilins are essential for regulating neurotransmitter release.

Zhang C(1), Wu B, Beglopoulos V, Wines-Samuelson M, Zhang D, Dragatsis I, Südhof 
TC, Shen J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Program in
Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Mutations in the presenilin genes are the main cause of familial Alzheimer's
disease. Loss of presenilin activity and/or accumulation of amyloid-beta peptides
have been proposed to mediate the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease by
impairing synaptic function. However, the precise site and nature of the synaptic
dysfunction remain unknown. Here we use a genetic approach to inactivate
presenilins conditionally in either presynaptic (CA3) or postsynaptic (CA1)
neurons of the hippocampal Schaeffer-collateral pathway. We show that long-term
potentiation induced by theta-burst stimulation is decreased after presynaptic
but not postsynaptic deletion of presenilins. Moreover, we found that presynaptic
but not postsynaptic inactivation of presenilins alters short-term plasticity and
synaptic facilitation. The probability of evoked glutamate release, measured with
the open-channel NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor antagonist MK-801, is
reduced by presynaptic inactivation of presenilins. Notably, depletion of
endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores by thapsigargin, or blockade of Ca(2+)
release from these stores by ryanodine receptor inhibitors, mimics and occludes
the effects of presynaptic presenilin inactivation. Collectively, these results
indicate a selective role for presenilins in the activity-dependent regulation of
neurotransmitter release and long-term potentiation induction by modulation of
intracellular Ca(2+) release in presynaptic terminals, and further suggest that
presynaptic dysfunction might be an early pathogenic event leading to dementia
and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08177 
PMCID: PMC2744588
PMID: 19641596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):624-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08207.

A viscosity-enhanced mechanism for biogenic ocean mixing.

Katija K(1), Dabiri JO.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California
91125, USA. kakani@caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):581-2.

Recent observations of biologically generated turbulence in the ocean have led to
conflicting conclusions regarding the significance of the contribution of animal 
swimming to ocean mixing. Measurements indicate elevated turbulent
dissipation--comparable with levels caused by winds and tides--in the vicinity of
large populations of planktonic animals swimming together. However, it has also
been noted that elevated turbulent dissipation is by itself insufficient proof of
substantial biogenic mixing, because much of the turbulent kinetic energy of
small animals is injected below the Ozmidov buoyancy length scale, where it is
primarily dissipated as heat by the fluid viscosity before it can affect ocean
mixing. Ongoing debate regarding biogenic mixing has focused on comparisons
between animal wake turbulence and ocean turbulence. Here, we show that a second,
previously neglected mechanism of fluid mixing--first described over 50 years ago
by Charles Darwin--is the dominant mechanism of mixing by swimming animals. The
efficiency of mixing by Darwin's mechanism is dependent on animal shape rather
than fluid length scale and, unlike turbulent wake mixing, is enhanced by fluid
viscosity. Therefore, it provides a means of biogenic mixing that can be equally 
effective in small zooplankton and large mammals. A theoretical model for the
relative contributions of Darwinian mixing and turbulent wake mixing is created
and validated by in situ field measurements of swimming jellyfish using a newly
developed scuba-based laser velocimetry device. Extrapolation of these results to
other animals is straightforward given knowledge of the animal shape and
orientation during vertical migration. On the basis of calculations of a broad
range of aquatic animal species, we conclude that biogenic mixing via Darwin's
mechanism can be a significant contributor to ocean mixing and nutrient
transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08207 
PMID: 19641595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):599-604. doi: 10.1038/nature08218.

Pore architecture and ion sites in acid-sensing ion channels and P2X receptors.

Gonzales EB(1), Kawate T, Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 Southwest Sam
Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):580-1.

Acid-sensing ion channels are proton-activated, sodium-selective channels
composed of three subunits, and are members of the superfamily of epithelial
sodium channels, mechanosensitive and FMRF-amide peptide-gated ion channels.
These ubiquitous eukaryotic ion channels have essential roles in biological
activities as diverse as sodium homeostasis, taste and pain. Despite their
crucial roles in biology and their unusual trimeric subunit stoichiometry, there 
is little knowledge of the structural and chemical principles underlying their
ion channel architecture and ion-binding sites. Here we present the structure of 
a functional acid-sensing ion channel in a desensitized state at 3 A resolution, 
the location and composition of the approximately 8 A 'thick' desensitization
gate, and the trigonal antiprism coordination of caesium ions bound in the
extracellular vestibule. Comparison of the acid-sensing ion channel structure
with the ATP-gated P2X(4) receptor reveals similarity in pore architecture and
aqueous vestibules, suggesting that there are unanticipated yet common structural
and mechanistic principles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08218 
PMCID: PMC2845979
PMID: 19641589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):592-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08198.

Crystal structure of the ATP-gated P2X(4) ion channel in the closed state.

Kawate T(1), Michel JC, Birdsong WT, Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 Southwest Sam
Jackson Park Road, Oregon 97239, USA.

P2X receptors are cation-selective ion channels gated by extracellular ATP, and
are implicated in diverse physiological processes, from synaptic transmission to 
inflammation to the sensing of taste and pain. Because P2X receptors are not
related to other ion channel proteins of known structure, there is at present no 
molecular foundation for mechanisms of ligand-gating, allosteric modulation and
ion permeation. Here we present crystal structures of the zebrafish P2X(4)
receptor in its closed, resting state. The chalice-shaped, trimeric receptor is
knit together by subunit-subunit contacts implicated in ion channel gating and
receptor assembly. Extracellular domains, rich in beta-strands, have large acidic
patches that may attract cations, through fenestrations, to vestibules near the
ion channel. In the transmembrane pore, the 'gate' is defined by an approximately
8 A slab of protein. We define the location of three non-canonical, intersubunit 
ATP-binding sites, and suggest that ATP binding promotes subunit rearrangement
and ion channel opening.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08198 
PMCID: PMC2720809
PMID: 19641588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):587-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08197.

Recent progress in the biology and physiology of sirtuins.

Finkel T(1), Deng CX, Mostoslavsky R.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Medicine Branch, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, US
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

The sirtuins are a highly conserved family of NAD(+)-dependent enzymes that
regulate lifespan in lower organisms. Recently, the mammalian sirtuins have been 
connected to an ever widening circle of activities that encompass cellular stress
resistance, genomic stability, tumorigenesis and energy metabolism. Here we
review the recent progress in sirtuin biology, the role these proteins have in
various age-related diseases and the tantalizing notion that the activity of this
family of enzymes somehow regulates how long we live.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08197 
PMCID: PMC3727385
PMID: 19641587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):551. doi: 10.1038/460551a.

Information overload.

[No authors listed]

A report released last week by the US National Academies makes recommendations
for tackling the issues surrounding the era of petabyte science.

DOI: 10.1038/460551a 
PMID: 19641545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):647-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08161. Epub 2009 Jul 1.

Evidence of Xist RNA-independent initiation of mouse imprinted X-chromosome
inactivation.

Kalantry S(1), Purushothaman S, Bowen RB, Starmer J, Magnuson T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, and Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-7264, USA.

XX female mammals undergo transcriptional silencing of most genes on one of their
two X chromosomes to equalize X-linked gene dosage with XY males in a process
referred to as X-chromosome inactivation (XCI). XCI is an example of epigenetic
regulation. Once enacted in individual cells of the early female embryo, XCI is
stably transmitted such that most descendant cells maintain silencing of that X
chromosome. In eutherian mammals, XCI is thought to be triggered by the
expression of the non-coding Xist RNA from the future inactive X chromosome (Xi);
Xist RNA in turn is proposed to recruit protein complexes that bring about
heterochromatinization of the Xi. Here we test whether imprinted XCI, which
results in preferential inactivation of the paternal X chromosome (Xp), occurs in
mouse embryos inheriting an Xp lacking Xist. We find that silencing of Xp-linked 
genes can initiate in the absence of paternal Xist; Xist is, however, required to
stabilize silencing along the Xp. Xp-linked gene silencing associated with mouse 
imprinted XCI, therefore, can initiate in the embryo independently of Xist RNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08161 
PMCID: PMC2754729
PMID: 19571810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):642-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08139. Epub 2009 Jun 28.

MicroRNA-mediated switching of chromatin-remodelling complexes in neural
development.

Yoo AS(1), Staahl BT, Chen L, Crabtree GR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Department of Developmental Biology,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 10;461(7261):296.

One of the most distinctive steps in the development of the vertebrate nervous
system occurs at mitotic exit when cells lose multipotency and begin to develop
stable connections that will persist for a lifetime. This transition is
accompanied by a switch in ATP-dependent chromatin-remodelling mechanisms that
appears to coincide with the final mitotic division of neurons. This switch
involves the exchange of the BAF53a (also known as ACTL6a) and BAF45a (PHF10)
subunits within Swi/Snf-like neural-progenitor-specific BAF (npBAF) complexes for
the homologous BAF53b (ACTL6b) and BAF45b (DPF1) subunits within neuron-specific 
BAF (nBAF) complexes in post-mitotic neurons. The subunits of the npBAF complex
are essential for neural-progenitor proliferation, and mice with reduced dosage
for the genes encoding its subunits have defects in neural-tube closure similar
to those in human spina bifida, one of the most serious congenital birth defects.
In contrast, BAF53b and the nBAF complex are essential for an evolutionarily
conserved program of post-mitotic neural development and dendritic morphogenesis.
Here we show that this essential transition is mediated by repression of BAF53a
by miR-9* and miR-124. We find that BAF53a repression is mediated by sequences in
the 3' untranslated region corresponding to the recognition sites for miR-9* and 
miR-124, which are selectively expressed in post-mitotic neurons. Mutation of
these sites led to persistent expression of BAF53a and defective
activity-dependent dendritic outgrowth in neurons. In addition, overexpression of
miR-9* and miR-124 in neural progenitors caused reduced proliferation. Previous
studies have indicated that miR-9* and miR-124 are repressed by the
repressor-element-1-silencing transcription factor (REST, also known as NRSF).
Indeed, expression of REST in post-mitotic neurons led to derepression of BAF53a,
indicating that REST-mediated repression of microRNAs directs the essential
switch of chromatin regulatory complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08139 
PMCID: PMC2921580
PMID: 19561591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature08209.

Adult satellite cells and embryonic muscle progenitors have distinct genetic
requirements.

Lepper C(1), Conway SJ, Fan CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Embryology, Carnegie Institution, 3520 San Martin Drive,
Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA. lepper@ciwemb.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):584-5.

Myogenic potential, survival and expansion of mammalian muscle progenitors depend
on the myogenic determinants Pax3 and Pax7 embryonically, and Pax7 alone
perinatally. Several in vitro studies support the critical role of Pax7 in these 
functions of adult muscle stem cells (satellite cells), but a formal
demonstration has been lacking in vivo. Here we show, through the application of 
inducible Cre/loxP lineage tracing and conditional gene inactivation to the
tibialis anterior muscle regeneration paradigm, that, unexpectedly, when Pax7 is 
inactivated in adult mice, mutant satellite cells are not compromised in muscle
regeneration, they can proliferate and reoccupy the sublaminal satellite niche,
and they are able to support further regenerative processes. Dual adult
inactivation of Pax3 and Pax7 also results in normal muscle regeneration.
Multiple time points of gene inactivation reveal that Pax7 is only required up to
the juvenile period when progenitor cells make the transition into quiescence.
Furthermore, we demonstrate a cell-intrinsic difference between neonatal
progenitor and adult satellite cells in their Pax7-dependency. Our finding of an 
age-dependent change in the genetic requirement for muscle stem cells cautions
against inferring adult stem-cell biology from embryonic studies, and has direct 
implications for the use of stem cells from hosts of different ages in
transplantation-based therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08209 
PMCID: PMC2767162
PMID: 19554048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):637-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08181. Epub 2009 Jun 17.

Macrophage elastase kills bacteria within murine macrophages.

Houghton AM(1), Hartzell WO, Robbins CS, Gomis-Rüth FX, Shapiro SD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15213, USA. houghtonm@dom.pitt.edu

Macrophages are aptly positioned to function as the primary line of defence
against invading pathogens in many organs, including the lung and peritoneum.
Their ability to phagocytose and clear microorganisms has been well documented.
Macrophages possess several substances with which they can kill bacteria,
including reactive oxygen species, nitric oxide, and antimicrobial proteins. We
proposed that macrophage-derived proteinases may contribute to the antimicrobial 
properties of macrophages. Macrophage elastase (also known as matrix
metalloproteinase 12 or MMP12) is an enzyme predominantly expressed in mature
tissue macrophages and is implicated in several disease processes, including
emphysema. Physiological functions for MMP12 have not been described. Here we
show that Mmp12(-/-) mice exhibit impaired bacterial clearance and increased
mortality when challenged with both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria at
macrophage-rich portals of entry, such as the peritoneum and lung. Intracellular 
stores of MMP12 are mobilized to macrophage phagolysosomes after the ingestion of
bacterial pathogens. Once inside phagolysosomes, MMP12 adheres to bacterial cell 
walls where it disrupts cellular membranes resulting in bacterial death. The
antimicrobial properties of MMP12 do not reside within its catalytic domain, but 
rather within the carboxy-terminal domain. This domain contains a unique four
amino acid sequence on an exposed beta loop of the protein that is required for
the observed antimicrobial activity. The present study represents, to our
knowledge, the first report of direct antimicrobial activity by a matrix
metallopeptidase, and describes a new antimicrobial peptide that is sequentially 
and structurally unique in nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08181 
PMCID: PMC2885871
PMID: 19536155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):540-1.

Big opportunities in a small world.

Gewin V.

Nanomedicine has started to gather momentum in recent years, and cutting-edge
jobs abound for those with the right training. Virginia Gewin takes a closer
look.


PMID: 19637403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature08199.

Modulation of microRNA processing by p53.

Suzuki HI(1), Yamagata K, Sugimoto K, Iwamoto T, Kato S, Miyazono K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pathology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of 
Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):466-7.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2009 Sep;9(9):612.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as key post-transcriptional regulators of gene
expression, involved in diverse physiological and pathological processes.
Although miRNAs can function as both tumour suppressors and oncogenes in tumour
development, a widespread downregulation of miRNAs is commonly observed in human 
cancers and promotes cellular transformation and tumorigenesis. This indicates an
inherent significance of small RNAs in tumour suppression. However, the
connection between tumour suppressor networks and miRNA biogenesis machineries
has not been investigated in depth. Here we show that a central tumour
suppressor, p53, enhances the post-transcriptional maturation of several miRNAs
with growth-suppressive function, including miR-16-1, miR-143 and miR-145, in
response to DNA damage. In HCT116 cells and human diploid fibroblasts, p53
interacts with the Drosha processing complex through the association with
DEAD-box RNA helicase p68 (also known as DDX5) and facilitates the processing of 
primary miRNAs to precursor miRNAs. We also found that transcriptionally inactive
p53 mutants interfere with a functional assembly between Drosha complex and p68, 
leading to attenuation of miRNA processing activity. These findings suggest that 
transcription-independent modulation of miRNA biogenesis is intrinsically
embedded in a tumour suppressive program governed by p53. Our study reveals a
previously unrecognized function of p53 in miRNA processing, which may underlie
key aspects of cancer biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08199 
PMID: 19626115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):515-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08200.

Increased mortality and AIDS-like immunopathology in wild chimpanzees infected
with SIVcpz.

Keele BF(1), Jones JH, Terio KA, Estes JD, Rudicell RS, Wilson ML, Li Y, Learn
GH, Beasley TM, Schumacher-Stankey J, Wroblewski E, Mosser A, Raphael J, Kamenya 
S, Lonsdorf EV, Travis DA, Mlengeya T, Kinsel MJ, Else JG, Silvestri G, Goodall
J, Sharp PM, Shaw GM, Pusey AE, Hahn BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 35294, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):470-1.

African primates are naturally infected with over 40 different simian
immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs), two of which have crossed the species barrier
and generated human immunodeficiency virus types 1 and 2 (HIV-1 and HIV-2).
Unlike the human viruses, however, SIVs do not generally cause acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in their natural hosts. Here we show that
SIVcpz, the immediate precursor of HIV-1, is pathogenic in free-ranging
chimpanzees. By following 94 members of two habituated chimpanzee communities in 
Gombe National Park, Tanzania, for over 9 years, we found a 10- to 16-fold higher
age-corrected death hazard for SIVcpz-infected (n = 17) compared to uninfected (n
= 77) chimpanzees. We also found that SIVcpz-infected females were less likely to
give birth and had a higher infant mortality rate than uninfected females.
Immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization of post-mortem spleen and lymph
node samples from three infected and two uninfected chimpanzees revealed
significant CD4(+) T-cell depletion in all infected individuals, with evidence of
high viral replication and extensive follicular dendritic cell virus trapping in 
one of them. One female, who died within 3 years of acquiring SIVcpz, had
histopathological findings consistent with end-stage AIDS. These results indicate
that SIVcpz, like HIV-1, is associated with progressive CD4(+) T-cell loss,
lymphatic tissue destruction and premature death. These findings challenge the
prevailing view that all natural SIV infections are non-pathogenic and suggest
that SIVcpz has a substantial negative impact on the health, reproduction and
lifespan of chimpanzees in the wild.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08200 
PMCID: PMC2872475
PMID: 19626114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):506-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08179.

Light limitation of nutrient-poor lake ecosystems.

Karlsson J(1), Byström P, Ask J, Ask P, Persson L, Jansson M.

Author information: 
(1)Climate Impacts Research Centre, Department of Ecology and Environmental
Science, Umeå University, Box 62, SE-981 07 Abisko, Sweden.
Jan.Karlsson@emg.umu.se

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):463-4.

Productivity denotes the rate of biomass synthesis in ecosystems and is a
fundamental characteristic that frames ecosystem function and management.
Limitation of productivity by nutrient availability is an established paradigm
for lake ecosystems. Here, we assess the relevance of this paradigm for a
majority of the world's small, nutrient-poor lakes, with different concentrations
of coloured organic matter. By comparing small unproductive lakes along a water
colour gradient, we show that coloured terrestrial organic matter controls the
key process for new biomass synthesis (the benthic primary production) through
its effects on light attenuation. We also show that this translates into effects 
on production and biomass of higher trophic levels (benthic invertebrates and
fish). These results are inconsistent with the idea that nutrient supply
primarily controls lake productivity, and we propose that a large share of the
world's unproductive lakes, within natural variations of organic carbon and
nutrient input, are limited by light and not by nutrients. We anticipate that our
result will have implications for understanding lake ecosystem function and
responses to environmental change. Catchment export of coloured organic matter is
sensitive to short-term natural variability and long-term, large-scale changes,
driven by climate and different anthropogenic influences. Consequently, changes
in terrestrial carbon cycling will have pronounced effects on most lake
ecosystems by mediating changes in light climate and productivity of lakes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08179 
PMID: 19626113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):510-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08150. Epub 2009 Jul 5.

Partial penetrance facilitates developmental evolution in bacteria.

Eldar A(1), Chary VK, Xenopoulos P, Fontes ME, Losón OC, Dworkin J, Piggot PJ,
Elowitz MB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Division of Biology and Department of
Applied Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, 
USA.

Development normally occurs similarly in all individuals within an isogenic
population, but mutations often affect the fates of individual organisms
differently. This phenomenon, known as partial penetrance, has been observed in
diverse developmental systems. However, it remains unclear how the underlying
genetic network specifies the set of possible alternative fates and how the
relative frequencies of these fates evolve. Here we identify a stochastic cell
fate determination process that operates in Bacillus subtilis sporulation mutants
and show how it allows genetic control of the penetrance of multiple fates.
Mutations in an intercompartmental signalling process generate a set of discrete 
alternative fates not observed in wild-type cells, including rare formation of
two viable 'twin' spores, rather than one within a single cell. By genetically
modulating chromosome replication and septation, we can systematically tune the
penetrance of each mutant fate. Furthermore, signalling and replication
perturbations synergize to significantly increase the penetrance of twin
sporulation. These results suggest a potential pathway for developmental
evolution between monosporulation and twin sporulation through states of
intermediate twin penetrance. Furthermore, time-lapse microscopy of twin
sporulation in wild-type Clostridium oceanicum shows a strong resemblance to twin
sporulation in these B. subtilis mutants. Together the results suggest that noise
can facilitate developmental evolution by enabling the initial expression of
discrete morphological traits at low penetrance, and allowing their stabilization
by gradual adjustment of genetic parameters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08150 
PMCID: PMC2716064
PMID: 19578359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):525-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08156. Epub 2009 Jul 1.

Helical extension of the neuronal SNARE complex into the membrane.

Stein A(1), Weber G, Wahl MC, Jahn R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Neurotransmission relies on synaptic vesicles fusing with the membrane of nerve
cells to release their neurotransmitter content into the synaptic cleft, a
process requiring the assembly of several members of the SNARE (soluble
N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) family. SNAREs
represent an evolutionarily conserved protein family that mediates membrane
fusion in the secretory and endocytic pathways of eukaryotic cells. On membrane
contact, these proteins assemble in trans between the membranes as a bundle of
four alpha-helices, with the energy released during assembly being thought to
drive fusion. However, it is unclear how the energy is transferred to the
membranes and whether assembly is conformationally linked to fusion. Here, we
report the X-ray structure of the neuronal SNARE complex, consisting of rat
syntaxin 1A, SNAP-25 and synaptobrevin 2, with the carboxy-terminal linkers and
transmembrane regions at 3.4 A resolution. The structure shows that assembly
proceeds beyond the already known core SNARE complex, resulting in a continuous
helical bundle that is further stabilized by side-chain interactions in the
linker region. Our results suggest that the final phase of SNARE assembly is
directly coupled to membrane merger.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08156 
PMCID: PMC3108252
PMID: 19571812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):520-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08138. Epub 2009 Jun 28.

Regulation of the innate immune response by threonine-phosphatase of Eyes absent.

Okabe Y(1), Sano T, Nagata S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
University, Yoshida-Konoe, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Innate immunity is stimulated not only by viral or bacterial components, but also
by non-microbial danger signals (damage-associated molecular patterns). One of
the damage-associated molecular patterns is chromosomal DNA that escapes
degradation. In programmed cell death and erythropoiesis, DNA from dead cells or 
nuclei expelled from erythroblasts is digested by DNase II in the macrophages
after they are engulfed. DNase II(-/-) (also known as Dnase2a(-/-)) mice suffer
from severe anaemia or chronic arthritis due to interferon-beta (IFN-beta) and
tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) produced from the macrophages carrying
undigested DNA in a Toll-like receptor (TLR)-independent mechanism. Here we show 
that Eyes absent 4 (EYA4), originally identified as a co-transcription factor,
stimulates the expression of IFN-beta and CXCL10 in response to the undigested
DNA of apoptotic cells. EYA4 enhanced the innate immune response against viruses 
(Newcastle disease virus and vesicular stomatitis virus), and could associate
with signalling molecules (IPS-1 (also known as MAVS), STING (TMEM173) and
NLRX1). Three groups have previously shown that EYA has phosphatase activity. We 
found that mouse EYA family members act as a phosphatase for both phosphotyrosine
and phosphothreonine. The haloacid dehalogenase domain at the carboxy terminus
contained the tyrosine-phosphatase, and the amino-terminal half carried the
threonine-phosphatase. Mutations of the threonine-phosphatase, but not the
tyrosine-phosphatase, abolished the ability of EYA4 to enhance the innate immune 
response, suggesting that EYA regulates the innate immune response by modulating 
the phosphorylation state of signal transducers for the intracellular pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08138 
PMID: 19561593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08111. Epub 2009 Jun 21.

The CREB coactivator CRTC2 links hepatic ER stress and fasting gluconeogenesis.

Wang Y(1), Vera L, Fischer WH, Montminy M.

Author information: 
(1)Clayton Foundation Laboratories for Peptide Biology, The Salk Institute for
Biological Studies, 10010 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.

In fasted mammals, circulating pancreatic glucagon stimulates hepatic
gluconeogenesis in part through the CREB regulated transcription coactivator 2
(CRTC2, also referred to as TORC2). Hepatic glucose production is increased in
obesity, reflecting chronic increases in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress that
promote insulin resistance. Whether ER stress also modulates the gluconeogenic
program directly, however, is unclear. Here we show that CRTC2 functions as a
dual sensor for ER stress and fasting signals. Acute increases in ER stress
triggered the dephosphorylation and nuclear entry of CRTC2, which in turn
promoted the expression of ER quality control genes through an association with
activating transcription factor 6 alpha (ATF6alpha, also known as ATF6)--an
integral branch of the unfolded protein response. In addition to mediating CRTC2 
recruitment to ER stress inducible promoters, ATF6alpha also reduced hepatic
glucose output by disrupting the CREB-CRTC2 interaction and thereby inhibiting
CRTC2 occupancy over gluconeogenic genes. Conversely, hepatic glucose output was 
upregulated when hepatic ATF6alpha protein amounts were reduced, either by RNA
interference (RNAi)-mediated knockdown or as a result of persistent stress in
obesity. Because ATF6alpha overexpression in the livers of obese mice reversed
CRTC2 effects on the gluconeogenic program and lowered hepatic glucose output,
our results demonstrate how cross-talk between ER stress and fasting pathways at 
the level of a transcriptional coactivator contributes to glucose homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08111 
PMCID: PMC2730924
PMID: 19543265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):479-86. doi: 10.1038/nature08170. Epub 2009 Jun 17.

Argonaute HITS-CLIP decodes microRNA-mRNA interaction maps.

Chi SW(1), Zang JB, Mele A, Darnell RB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuro-Oncology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have critical roles in the regulation of gene expression;
however, as miRNA activity requires base pairing with only 6-8 nucleotides of
messenger RNA, predicting target mRNAs is a major challenge. Recently,
high-throughput sequencing of RNAs isolated by crosslinking immunoprecipitation
(HITS-CLIP) has identified functional protein-RNA interaction sites. Here we use 
HITS-CLIP to covalently crosslink native argonaute (Ago, also called Eif2c)
protein-RNA complexes in mouse brain. This produced two simultaneous data
sets-Ago-miRNA and Ago-mRNA binding sites-that were combined with bioinformatic
analysis to identify interaction sites between miRNA and target mRNA. We
validated genome-wide interaction maps for miR-124, and generated additional maps
for the 20 most abundant miRNAs present in P13 mouse brain. Ago HITS-CLIP
provides a general platform for exploring the specificity and range of miRNA
action in vivo, and identifies precise sequences for targeting clinically
relevant miRNA-mRNA interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08170 
PMCID: PMC2733940
PMID: 19536157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 2009 Jul 23;460(7254):473-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08162. Epub 2009 Jun 14.

Distinctive chromatin in human sperm packages genes for embryo development.

Hammoud SS(1), Nix DA, Zhang H, Purwar J, Carrell DT, Cairns BR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Oncological Sciences,
University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.

Comment in
    Epigenomics. 2009 Oct;1(1):23.

Because nucleosomes are widely replaced by protamine in mature human sperm, the
epigenetic contributions of sperm chromatin to embryo development have been
considered highly limited. Here we show that the retained nucleosomes are
significantly enriched at loci of developmental importance, including imprinted
gene clusters, microRNA clusters, HOX gene clusters, and the promoters of
stand-alone developmental transcription and signalling factors. Notably, histone 
modifications localize to particular developmental loci. Dimethylated lysine 4 on
histone H3 (H3K4me2) is enriched at certain developmental promoters, whereas
large blocks of H3K4me3 localize to a subset of developmental promoters, regions 
in HOX clusters, certain noncoding RNAs, and generally to paternally expressed
imprinted loci, but not paternally repressed loci. Notably, trimethylated H3K27
(H3K27me3) is significantly enriched at developmental promoters that are
repressed in early embryos, including many bivalent (H3K4me3/H3K27me3) promoters 
in embryonic stem cells. Furthermore, developmental promoters are generally DNA
hypomethylated in sperm, but acquire methylation during differentiation. Taken
together, epigenetic marking in sperm is extensive, and correlated with
developmental regulators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08162 
PMCID: PMC2858064
PMID: 19525931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):415-8. doi: 10.1038/460415a.

Systems biology: Untangling the protein web.

Blow N.

Researchers have identified thousands of macromolecular interactions within
cells. But, as Nathan Blow finds out, joining them up in networks and figuring
out how they work still poses a big challenge.

DOI: 10.1038/460415a 
PMID: 19606149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):384-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08168.

Global patterns of speciation and diversity.

de Aguiar MA(1), Baranger M, Baptestini EM, Kaufman L, Bar-Yam Y.

Author information: 
(1)New England Complex Systems Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):334-5.

In recent years, strikingly consistent patterns of biodiversity have been
identified over space, time, organism type and geographical region. A neutral
theory (assuming no environmental selection or organismal interactions) has been 
shown to predict many patterns of ecological biodiversity. This theory is based
on a mechanism by which new species arise similarly to point mutations in a
population without sexual reproduction. Here we report the simulation of
populations with sexual reproduction, mutation and dispersal. We found simulated 
time dependence of speciation rates, species-area relationships and species
abundance distributions consistent with the behaviours found in nature. From our 
results, we predict steady speciation rates, more species in one-dimensional
environments than two-dimensional environments, three scaling regimes of
species-area relationships and lognormal distributions of species abundance with 
an excess of rare species and a tail that may be approximated by Fisher's
logarithmic series. These are consistent with dependences reported for, among
others, global birds and flowering plants, marine invertebrate fossils,
ray-finned fishes, British birds and moths, North American songbirds, mammal
fossils from Kansas and Panamanian shrubs. Quantitative comparisons of specific
cases are remarkably successful. Our biodiversity results provide additional
evidence that species diversity arises without specific physical barriers. This
is similar to heavy traffic flows, where traffic jams can form even without
accidents or barriers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08168 
PMID: 19606148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):380-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08189.

Migration of the subtropical front as a modulator of glacial climate.

Bard E(1), Rickaby RE.

Author information: 
(1)CEREGE (UMR 6635), Collège de France, University Paul-Cézanne Aix-Marseille,
CNRS, IRD, Europole de l'Arbois BP 80, 13545 Aix-en-Provence Cedex 4, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):335-6.

Ice cores extracted from the Antarctic ice sheet suggest that glacial conditions,
and the relationship between isotopically derived temperatures and atmospheric
PCO(2) have been constant over the last 800,000 years of the Late Pleistocene
epoch. But independent lines of evidence, such as the extent of Northern
Hemisphere ice sheets, sea level and other temperature records, point towards a
fluctuating severity of glacial periods, particularly during the more extreme
glacial stadials centred around 340,000 and 420,000 years ago (marine isotope
stages 10 and 12). Previously unidentified mechanisms therefore appear to have
mediated the relationship between insolation, CO(2) and climate. Here we test
whether northward migration of the subtropical front (STF) off the southeastern
coast of South Africa acts as a gatekeeper for the Agulhas current, which
controls the transport of heat and salt from the Indo-Pacific Ocean to the
Atlantic Ocean. Using a new 800,000-year record of sea surface temperature and
ocean productivity from ocean sediment core MD962077, we demonstrate that during 
cold stadials (particularly marine isotope stages 10 and 12), productivity peaked
and sea surface temperature was up to 6 degrees C cooler than modern
temperatures. This suggests that during these cooler stadials, the STF moved
northward by up to 7 degrees latitude, nearly shutting off the Agulhas current.
Our results, combined with faunal assemblages from the south Atlantic show that
variable northwards migration of the Southern Hemisphere STF can modulate the
severity of each glacial period by altering the strength of the Agulhas current
carrying heat and salt to the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation. We
show hence that the degree of northwards migration of the STF can partially
decouple global climate from atmospheric partial pressure of carbon dioxide, P
CO(2), and help to resolve the long-standing puzzle of differing glacial
amplitudes within a consistent range of atmospheric PCO(2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature08189 
PMID: 19606147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08163.

Evidence for middle Eocene Arctic sea ice from diatoms and ice-rafted debris.

Stickley CE(1), St John K, Koç N, Jordan RW, Passchier S, Pearce RB, Kearns LE.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Department of Geology, University of Tromsø, N-9037 Tromsø, Norway [2]
Norwegian Polar Institute, Polar Environmental Centre, N-9296 Tromsø, Norway.

Oceanic sediments from long cores drilled on the Lomonosov ridge, in the central 
Arctic, contain ice-rafted debris (IRD) back to the middle Eocene epoch,
prompting recent suggestions that ice appeared in the Arctic about 46 million
years (Myr) ago. However, because IRD can be transported by icebergs (derived
from land-based ice) and also by sea ice, IRD records are restricted to providing
a history of general ice-rafting only. It is critical to differentiate sea ice
from glacial (land-based) ice as climate feedback mechanisms vary and global
impacts differ between these systems: sea ice directly affects ocean-atmosphere
exchanges, whereas land-based ice affects sea level and consequently ocean
acidity. An earlier report assumed that sea ice was prevalent in the middle
Eocene Arctic on the basis of IRD, and although somewhat preliminary supportive
evidence exists, these data are neither comprehensive nor quantified. Here we
show the presence of middle Eocene Arctic sea ice from an extraordinary abundance
of a group of sea-ice-dependent fossil diatoms (Synedropsis spp.). Analysis of
quartz grain textural characteristics further supports sea ice as the dominant
transporter of IRD at this time. Together with new information on cosmopolitan
diatoms and existing IRD records, our data strongly suggest a two-phase
establishment of sea ice: initial episodic formation in marginal shelf areas
approximately 47.5 Myr ago, followed approximately 0.5 Myr later by the onset of 
seasonally paced sea-ice formation in offshore areas of the central Arctic. Our
data establish a 2-Myr record of sea ice, documenting the transition from a warm,
ice-free environment to one dominated by winter sea ice at the start of the
middle Eocene climatic cooling phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08163 
PMID: 19606146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08131.

Photoconductance and inverse photoconductance in films of functionalized metal
nanoparticles.

Nakanishi H(1), Bishop KJ, Kowalczyk B, Nitzan A, Weiss EA, Tretiakov KV, Apodaca
MM, Klajn R, Stoddart JF, Grzybowski BA.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Department of Chemistry, [2] Department of Chemical and Biological
Engineering, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA.

In traditional photoconductors, the impinging light generates mobile charge
carriers in the valence and/or conduction bands, causing the material's
conductivity to increase. Such positive photoconductance is observed in both bulk
and nanostructured photoconductors. Here we describe a class of
nanoparticle-based materials whose conductivity can either increase or decrease
on irradiation with visible light of wavelengths close to the particles' surface 
plasmon resonance. The remarkable feature of these plasmonic materials is that
the sign of the conductivity change and the nature of the electron transport
between the nanoparticles depend on the molecules comprising the self-assembled
monolayers (SAMs) stabilizing the nanoparticles. For SAMs made of electrically
neutral (polar and non-polar) molecules, conductivity increases on irradiation.
If, however, the SAMs contain electrically charged (either negatively or
positively) groups, conductivity decreases. The optical and electrical
characteristics of these previously undescribed inverse photoconductors can be
engineered flexibly by adjusting the material properties of the nanoparticles and
of the coating SAMs. In particular, in films comprising mixtures of different
nanoparticles or nanoparticles coated with mixed SAMs, the overall
photoconductance is a weighted average of the changes induced by the individual
components. These and other observations can be rationalized in terms of
light-induced creation of mobile charge carriers whose transport through the
charged SAMs is inhibited by carrier trapping in transient polaron-like states.
The nanoparticle-based photoconductors we describe could have uses in chemical
sensors and/or in conjunction with flexible substrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08131 
PMID: 19606145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):367-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08190.

Manipulation of photons at the surface of three-dimensional photonic crystals.

Ishizaki K(1), Noda S.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Department of Electronic Science and Engineering, Kyoto University, [2]
Japan Science and Technology Agency, Kyoto 615-8510, Japan.

In three-dimensional (3D) photonic crystals, refractive-index variations with a
periodicity comparable to the wavelength of the light passing through the crystal
give rise to so-called photonic bandgaps, which are analogous to electronic
bandgaps for electrons moving in the periodic electrostatic potential of a
material's crystal structure. Such 3D photonic bandgap crystals are envisioned to
become fundamental building blocks for the control and manipulation of photons in
optical circuits. So far, such schemes have been pursued by embedding artificial 
defects and light emitters inside the crystals, making use of 3D bandgap
directional effects. Here we show experimentally that photons can be controlled
and manipulated even at the 'surface' of 3D photonic crystals, where 3D
periodicity is terminated, establishing a new and versatile route for photon
manipulation. By making use of an evanescent-mode coupling technique, we
demonstrate that 3D photonic crystals possess two-dimensional surface states, and
we map their band structure. We show that photons can be confined and propagate
through these two-dimensional surface states, and we realize their localization
at arbitrary surface points by designing artificial surface-defect structures
through the formation of a surface-mode gap. Surprisingly, the quality factors of
the surface-defect mode are the largest reported for 3D photonic crystal
nanocavities (Q up to approximately 9,000). In addition to providing a new
approach for photon manipulation by photonic crystals, our findings are relevant 
for the generation and control of plasmon-polaritons in metals and the related
surface photon physics. The absorption-free nature of the 3D photonic crystal
surface may enable new sensing applications and provide routes for the
realization of efficient light-matter interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08190 
PMID: 19606144 


407. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):364-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08094.

Contamination of the asteroid belt by primordial trans-Neptunian objects.

Levison HF(1), Bottke WF, Gounelle M, Morbidelli A, Nesvorný D, Tsiganis K.

Author information: 
(1)[1] Southwest Research Institute, 1050 Walnut Street, Suite 300, [2] Center
for Lunar Origin & Evolution, NASA Lunar Science Institute, Boulder, Colorado
80302, USA.

The main asteroid belt, which inhabits a relatively narrow annulus approximately 
2.1-3.3 au from the Sun, contains a surprising diversity of objects ranging from 
primitive ice-rock mixtures to igneous rocks. The standard model used to explain 
this assumes that most asteroids formed in situ from a primordial disk that
experienced radical chemical changes within this zone. Here we show that the
violent dynamical evolution of the giant-planet orbits required by the so-called 
Nice model leads to the insertion of primitive trans-Neptunian objects into the
outer belt. This result implies that the observed diversity of the asteroid belt 
is not a direct reflection of the intrinsic compositional variation of the
proto-planetary disk. The dark captured bodies, composed of organic-rich
materials, would have been more susceptible to collisional evolution than typical
main-belt asteroids. Their weak nature makes them a prodigious source of
micrometeorites-sufficient to explain why most are primitive in composition and
are isotopically different from most macroscopic meteorites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08094 
PMID: 19606143 


408. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):359-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08178.

The active form of DNA polymerase V is UmuD'(2)C-RecA-ATP.

Jiang Q(1), Karata K, Woodgate R, Cox MM, Goodman MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California,
University Park, Los Angeles, California 90089-2910, USA.

DNA-damage-induced SOS mutations arise when Escherichia coli DNA polymerase (pol)
V, activated by a RecA nucleoprotein filament (RecA*), catalyses translesion DNA 
synthesis. Here we address two longstanding enigmatic aspects of SOS mutagenesis,
the molecular composition of mutagenically active pol V and the role of RecA*. We
show that RecA* transfers a single RecA-ATP stoichiometrically from its DNA
3'-end to free pol V (UmuD'(2)C) to form an active mutasome (pol V Mut) with the 
composition UmuD'(2)C-RecA-ATP. Pol V Mut catalyses TLS in the absence of RecA*
and deactivates rapidly upon dissociation from DNA. Deactivation occurs more
slowly in the absence of DNA synthesis, while retaining RecA-ATP in the complex. 
Reactivation of pol V Mut is triggered by replacement of RecA-ATP from RecA*.
Thus, the principal role of RecA* in SOS mutagenesis is to transfer RecA-ATP to
pol V, and thus generate active mutasomal complex for translesion synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08178 
PMCID: PMC2731490
PMID: 19606142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):352-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08160.

The genome of the blood fluke Schistosoma mansoni.

Berriman M(1), Haas BJ, LoVerde PT, Wilson RA, Dillon GP, Cerqueira GC, Mashiyama
ST, Al-Lazikani B, Andrade LF, Ashton PD, Aslett MA, Bartholomeu DC, Blandin G,
Caffrey CR, Coghlan A, Coulson R, Day TA, Delcher A, DeMarco R, Djikeng A, Eyre
T, Gamble JA, Ghedin E, Gu Y, Hertz-Fowler C, Hirai H, Hirai Y, Houston R, Ivens 
A, Johnston DA, Lacerda D, Macedo CD, McVeigh P, Ning Z, Oliveira G, Overington
JP, Parkhill J, Pertea M, Pierce RJ, Protasio AV, Quail MA, Rajandream MA, Rogers
J, Sajid M, Salzberg SL, Stanke M, Tivey AR, White O, Williams DL, Wortman J, Wu 
W, Zamanian M, Zerlotini A, Fraser-Liggett CM, Barrell BG, El-Sayed NM.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. mb4@sanger.ac.uk

Schistosoma mansoni is responsible for the neglected tropical disease
schistosomiasis that affects 210 million people in 76 countries. Here we present 
analysis of the 363 megabase nuclear genome of the blood fluke. It encodes at
least 11,809 genes, with an unusual intron size distribution, and new families of
micro-exon genes that undergo frequent alternative splicing. As the first
sequenced flatworm, and a representative of the Lophotrochozoa, it offers
insights into early events in the evolution of the animals, including the
development of a body pattern with bilateral symmetry, and the development of
tissues into organs. Our analysis has been informed by the need to find new drug 
targets. The deficits in lipid metabolism that make schistosomes dependent on the
host are revealed, and the identification of membrane receptors, ion channels and
more than 300 proteases provide new insights into the biology of the life cycle
and new targets. Bioinformatics approaches have identified metabolic chokepoints,
and a chemogenomic screen has pinpointed schistosome proteins for which existing 
drugs may be active. The information generated provides an invaluable resource
for the research community to develop much needed new control tools for the
treatment and eradication of this important and neglected disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08160 
PMCID: PMC2756445
PMID: 19606141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):345-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08140.

The Schistosoma japonicum genome reveals features of host-parasite interplay.

Schistosoma japonicum Genome Sequencing and Functional Analysis Consortium.

Collaborators: Zhou Y, Zheng H, Chen Y, Zhang L, Wang K, Guo J, Huang Z, Zhang B,
Huang W, Jin K, Dou T, Hasegawa M, Wang L, Zhang Y, Zhou J, Tao L, Cao Z, Li Y,
Vinar T, Brejova B, Brown D, Li M, Miller DJ, Blair D, Zhong Y, Chen Z, Liu F, Hu
W, Wang ZQ, Zhang QH, Song HD, Chen S, Xu X, Xu B, Ju C, Huang Y, Brindley PJ,
McManus DP, Feng Z, Han ZG, Lu G, Ren S, Wang Y, Gu W, Kang H, Chen J, Chen X,
Chen S, Wang L, Yan J, Wang B, Lv X, Jin L, Wang B, Pu S, Zhang X, Zhang W, Hu Q,
Zhu G, Wang J, Yu J, Wang J, Yang H, Ning Z, Beriman M, Wei CL, Ruan Y, Zhao G,
Wang S, Liu F, Zhou Y, Wang ZQ, Lu G, Zheng H, Brindley PJ, McManus DP, Blair D, 
Zhang QH, Zhong Y, Wang S, Han ZG, Chen Z, Wang S, Han ZG, Chen Z.

Schistosoma japonicum is a parasitic flatworm that causes human schistosomiasis, 
which is a significant cause of morbidity in China and the Philippines. Here we
present a draft genomic sequence for the worm. The genome provides a global
insight into the molecular architecture and host interaction of this complex
metazoan pathogen, revealing that it can exploit host nutrients, neuroendocrine
hormones and signalling pathways for growth, development and maturation. Having a
complex nervous system and a well-developed sensory system, S. japonicum can
accept stimulation of the corresponding ligands as a physiological response to
different environments, such as fresh water or the tissues of its intermediate
and mammalian hosts. Numerous proteases, including cercarial elastase, are
implicated in mammalian skin penetration and haemoglobin degradation. The genomic
information will serve as a valuable platform to facilitate development of new
interventions for schistosomiasis control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08140 
PMCID: PMC3747554
PMID: 19606140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):339-44. doi: 10.1038/nature08188.

Primate archaeology.

Haslam M(1), Hernandez-Aguilar A, Ling V, Carvalho S, de la Torre I, DeStefano A,
Du A, Hardy B, Harris J, Marchant L, Matsuzawa T, McGrew W, Mercader J, Mora R,
Petraglia M, Roche H, Visalberghi E, Warren R.

Author information: 
(1)Leverhulme Centre for Human Evolutionary Studies, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 1QH, UK. mah66@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):341.

All modern humans use tools to overcome limitations of our anatomy and to make
difficult tasks easier. However, if tool use is such an advantage, we may ask why
it is not evolved to the same degree in other species. To answer this question,
we need to bring a long-term perspective to the material record of other members 
of our own order, the Primates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08188 
PMID: 19606139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):392-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08221. Epub 2009 Jul 8.

Rapamycin fed late in life extends lifespan in genetically heterogeneous mice.

Harrison DE(1), Strong R, Sharp ZD, Nelson JF, Astle CM, Flurkey K, Nadon NL,
Wilkinson JE, Frenkel K, Carter CS, Pahor M, Javors MA, Fernandez E, Miller RA.

Author information: 
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine 04609, USA. david.harrison@jax.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):331-2.

Inhibition of the TOR signalling pathway by genetic or pharmacological
intervention extends lifespan in invertebrates, including yeast, nematodes and
fruitflies; however, whether inhibition of mTOR signalling can extend lifespan in
a mammalian species was unknown. Here we report that rapamycin, an inhibitor of
the mTOR pathway, extends median and maximal lifespan of both male and female
mice when fed beginning at 600 days of age. On the basis of age at 90% mortality,
rapamycin led to an increase of 14% for females and 9% for males. The effect was 
seen at three independent test sites in genetically heterogeneous mice, chosen to
avoid genotype-specific effects on disease susceptibility. Disease patterns of
rapamycin-treated mice did not differ from those of control mice. In a separate
study, rapamycin fed to mice beginning at 270 days of age also increased survival
in both males and females, based on an interim analysis conducted near the median
survival point. Rapamycin may extend lifespan by postponing death from cancer, by
retarding mechanisms of ageing, or both. To our knowledge, these are the first
results to demonstrate a role for mTOR signalling in the regulation of mammalian 
lifespan, as well as pharmacological extension of lifespan in both genders. These
findings have implications for further development of interventions targeting
mTOR for the treatment and prevention of age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08221 
PMCID: PMC2786175
PMID: 19587680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):405-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08114. Epub 2009 Jul 5.

The AP-1 transcription factor Batf controls T(H)17 differentiation.

Schraml BU(1), Hildner K, Ise W, Lee WL, Smith WA, Solomon B, Sahota G, Sim J,
Mukasa R, Cemerski S, Hatton RD, Stormo GD, Weaver CT, Russell JH, Murphy TL,
Murphy KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Saint Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Activator protein 1 (AP-1, also known as JUN) transcription factors are dimers of
JUN, FOS, MAF and activating transcription factor (ATF) family proteins
characterized by basic region and leucine zipper domains. Many AP-1 proteins
contain defined transcriptional activation domains, but BATF and the closely
related BATF3 (refs 2, 3) contain only a basic region and leucine zipper, and are
considered to be inhibitors of AP-1 activity. Here we show that Batf is required 
for the differentiation of IL17-producing T helper (T(H)17) cells. T(H)17 cells
comprise a CD4(+) T-cell subset that coordinates inflammatory responses in host
defence but is pathogenic in autoimmunity. Batf(-/-) mice have normal T(H)1 and
T(H)2 differentiation, but show a defect in T(H)17 differentiation, and are
resistant to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Batf(-/-) T cells fail to
induce known factors required for T(H)17 differentiation, such as RORgamma t
(encoded by Rorc) and the cytokine IL21 (refs 14-17). Neither the addition of
IL21 nor the overexpression of RORgamma t fully restores IL17 production in
Batf(-/-) T cells. The Il17 promoter is BATF-responsive, and after T(H)17
differentiation, BATF binds conserved intergenic elements in the Il17a-Il17f
locus and to the Il17, Il21 and Il22 (ref. 18) promoters. These results
demonstrate that the AP-1 protein BATF has a critical role in T(H)17
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08114 
PMCID: PMC2716014
PMID: 19578362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):400-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08117. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

A reevaluation of X-irradiation-induced phocomelia and proximodistal limb
patterning.

Galloway JL(1), Delgado I, Ros MA, Tabin CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Phocomelia is a devastating, rare congenital limb malformation in which the long 
bones are shorter than normal, with the upper portion of the limb being most
severely affected. In extreme cases, the hands or fingers are attached directly
to the shoulder and the most proximal elements (those closest to the shoulder)
are entirely missing. This disorder, previously known in both autosomal recessive
and sporadic forms, showed a marked increase in incidence in the early 1960s due 
to the tragic toxicological effects of the drug thalidomide, which had been
prescribed as a mild sedative. This human birth defect is mimicked in developing 
chick limb buds exposed to X-irradiation. Both X-irradiation and
thalidomide-induced phocomelia have been interpreted as patterning defects in the
context of the progress zone model, which states that a cell's proximodistal
identity is determined by the length of time spent in a distal limb region termed
the 'progress zone'. Indeed, studies of X-irradiation-induced phocomelia have
served as one of the two major experimental lines of evidence supporting the
validity of the progress zone model. Here, using a combination of molecular
analysis and lineage tracing in chick, we show that X-irradiation-induced
phocomelia is fundamentally not a patterning defect, but rather results from a
time-dependent loss of skeletal progenitors. Because skeletal condensation
proceeds from the shoulder to fingers (in a proximal to distal direction), the
proximal elements are differentially affected in limb buds exposed to radiation
at early stages. This conclusion changes the framework for considering the effect
of thalidomide and other forms of phocomelia, suggesting the possibility that the
aetiology lies not in a defect in the patterning process, but rather in
progenitor cell survival and differentiation. Moreover, molecular evidence that
proximodistal patterning is unaffected after X-irradiation does not support the
predictions of the progress zone model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08117 
PMCID: PMC2711994
PMID: 19553938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):396-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08130. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

A conserved ubiquitination pathway determines longevity in response to diet
restriction.

Carrano AC(1), Liu Z, Dillin A, Hunter T.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological
Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Dietary restriction extends longevity in diverse species, suggesting that there
is a conserved mechanism for nutrient regulation and prosurvival responses. Here 
we show a role for the HECT (homologous to E6AP carboxy terminus) E3 ubiquitin
ligase WWP-1 as a positive regulator of lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans in
response to dietary restriction. We find that overexpression of wwp-1 in worms
extends lifespan by up to 20% under conditions of ad libitum feeding. This
extension is dependent on the FOXA transcription factor pha-4, and independent of
the FOXO transcription factor daf-16. Reduction of wwp-1 completely suppresses
the extended longevity of diet-restricted animals. However, the loss of wwp-1
does not affect the long lifespan of animals with compromised mitochondrial
function or reduced insulin/IGF-1 signalling. Overexpression of a mutant form of 
WWP-1 lacking catalytic activity suppresses the increased lifespan of
diet-restricted animals, indicating that WWP-1 ubiquitin ligase activity is
essential for longevity. Furthermore, we find that the E2 ubiquitin conjugating
enzyme, UBC-18, is essential and specific for diet-restriction-induced longevity.
UBC-18 interacts with WWP-1 and is required for the ubiquitin ligase activity of 
WWP-1 and the extended longevity of worms overexpressing wwp-1. Taken together,
our results indicate that WWP-1 and UBC-18 function to ubiquitinate substrates
that regulate diet-restriction-induced longevity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08130 
PMCID: PMC2746748
PMID: 19553937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):388-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08149. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

Evolution of a malaria resistance gene in wild primates.

Tung J(1), Primus A, Bouley AJ, Severson TF, Alberts SC, Wray GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Duke University, North Carolina 27708, USA.
jt5@duke.edu

The ecology, behaviour and genetics of our closest living relatives, the nonhuman
primates, should help us to understand the evolution of our own lineage. Although
a large amount of data has been amassed on primate ecology and behaviour, much
less is known about the functional and evolutionary genetic aspects of primate
biology, especially in wild primates. As a result, even in well-studied
populations in which nongenetic factors that influence adaptively important
characteristics have been identified, we have almost no understanding of the
underlying genetic basis for such traits. Here, we report on the functional
consequences of genetic variation at the malaria-related FY (DARC) gene in a
well-studied population of yellow baboons (Papio cynocephalus) living in Amboseli
National Park in Kenya. FY codes for a chemokine receptor normally expressed on
the erythrocyte surface that is the known entry point for the malarial parasite
Plasmodium vivax. We identified variation in the cis-regulatory region of the
baboon FY gene that was associated with phenotypic variation in susceptibility to
Hepatocystis, a malaria-like pathogen that is common in baboons. Genetic
variation in this region also influenced gene expression in vivo in wild
individuals, a result we confirmed using in vitro reporter gene assays. The
patterns of genetic variation in and around this locus were also suggestive of
non-neutral evolution, raising the possibility that the evolution of the FY
cis-regulatory region in baboons has exhibited both mechanistic and selective
parallels with the homologous region in humans. Together, our results represent
the first reported association and functional characterization linking genetic
variation and a complex trait in a natural population of nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08149 
PMID: 19553936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):410-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08079. Epub 2009 May 20.

Cohesins form chromosomal cis-interactions at the developmentally regulated IFNG 
locus.

Hadjur S(1), Williams LM, Ryan NK, Cobb BS, Sexton T, Fraser P, Fisher AG,
Merkenschlager M.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Development Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College
London, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK.

Comment in
    Epigenomics. 2009 Dec;1(2):232.

Cohesin-mediated sister chromatid cohesion is essential for chromosome
segregation and post-replicative DNA repair. In addition, evidence from model
organisms and from human genetics suggests that cohesin is involved in the
control of gene expression. This non-canonical role has recently been
rationalized by the findings that mammalian cohesin complexes are recruited to a 
subset of DNase I hypersensitive sites and to conserved noncoding sequences by
the DNA-binding protein CTCF. CTCF functions at insulators (which control
interactions between enhancers and promoters) and at boundary elements (which
demarcate regions of distinct chromatin structure), and cohesin contributes to
its enhancer-blocking activity. The underlying mechanisms remain unknown, and the
full spectrum of cohesin functions remains to be determined. Here we show that
cohesin forms the topological and mechanistic basis for cell-type-specific
long-range chromosomal interactions in cis at the developmentally regulated
cytokine locus IFNG. Hence, the ability of cohesin to constrain chromosome
topology is used not only for the purpose of sister chromatid cohesion, but also 
to dynamically define the spatial conformation of specific loci. This new aspect 
of cohesin function is probably important for normal development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08079 
PMCID: PMC2869028
PMID: 19458616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):254-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08141.

Late Cretaceous seasonal ocean variability from the Arctic.

Davies A(1), Kemp AE, Pike J.

Author information: 
(1)National Oceanography Centre Southampton, School of Ocean and Earth Science,
University of Southampton, Southampton, SO14 3ZH, UK.

The modern Arctic Ocean is regarded as a barometer of global change and amplifier
of global warming and therefore records of past Arctic change are critical for
palaeoclimate reconstruction. Little is known of the state of the Arctic Ocean in
the greenhouse period of the Late Cretaceous epoch (65-99 million years ago), yet
records from such times may yield important clues to Arctic Ocean behaviour in
near-future warmer climates. Here we present a seasonally resolved Cretaceous
sedimentary record from the Alpha ridge of the Arctic Ocean. This palaeo-sediment
trap provides new insight into the workings of the Cretaceous marine biological
carbon pump. Seasonal primary production was dominated by diatom algae but was
not related to upwelling as was previously hypothesized. Rather, production
occurred within a stratified water column, involving specially adapted species in
blooms resembling those of the modern North Pacific subtropical gyre, or those
indicated for the Mediterranean sapropels. With increased CO(2) levels and
warming currently driving increased stratification in the global ocean, this
style of production that is adapted to stratification may become more widespread.
Our evidence for seasonal diatom production and flux testify to an ice-free
summer, but thin accumulations of terrigenous sediment within the diatom ooze are
consistent with the presence of intermittent sea ice in the winter, supporting a 
wide body of evidence for low temperatures in the Late Cretaceous Arctic Ocean,
rather than recent suggestions of a 15 degrees C mean annual temperature at this 
time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08141 
PMID: 19587768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):250-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08116.

DNA sequence motifs for structure-specific recognition and separation of carbon
nanotubes.

Tu X(1), Manohar S, Jagota A, Zheng M.

Author information: 
(1)DuPont Central Research and Development, Wilmington, Delaware 19880, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):186-7.

Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) are a family of molecules that have the
same cylindrical shape but different chiralities. Many fundamental studies and
technological applications of SWNTs require a population of tubes with identical 
chirality that current syntheses cannot provide. The SWNT sorting problem-that
is, separation of a synthetic mixture of tubes into individual single-chirality
components-has attracted considerable attention in recent years. Intense efforts 
so far have focused largely on, and resulted in solutions for, a weaker version
of the sorting problem: metal/semiconductor separation. A systematic and general 
method to purify each and every single-chirality species of the same electronic
type from the synthetic mixture of SWNTs is highly desirable, but the task has
proven to be insurmountable to date. Here we report such a method, which allows
purification of all 12 major single-chirality semiconducting species from a
synthetic mixture, with sufficient yield for both fundamental studies and
application development. We have designed an effective search of a DNA library of
approximately 10(60) in size, and have identified more than 20 short DNA
sequences, each of which recognizes and enables chromatographic purification of a
particular nanotube species from the synthetic mixture. Recognition sequences
exhibit a periodic purine-pyrimidines pattern, which can undergo hydrogen-bonding
to form a two-dimensional sheet, and fold selectively on nanotubes into a
well-ordered three-dimensional barrel. We propose that the ordered
two-dimensional sheet and three-dimensional barrel provide the structural basis
for the observed DNA recognition of SWNTs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08116 
PMID: 19587767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08126.

Direct observation of correlations between individual photon emission events of a
microcavity laser.

Wiersig J(1), Gies C, Jahnke F, Assmann M, Berstermann T, Bayer M, Kistner C,
Reitzenstein S, Schneider C, Höfling S, Forchel A, Kruse C, Kalden J, Hommel D.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, University of Bremen, 28334 Bremen, Germany.

Lasers are recognized for coherent light emission, the onset of which is
reflected in a change in the photon statistics. For many years, attempts have
been made to directly measure correlations in the individual photon emission
events of semiconductor lasers. Previously, the temporal decay of these
correlations below or at the lasing threshold was considerably faster than could 
be measured with the time resolution provided by the Hanbury Brown/Twiss
measurement set-up used. Here we demonstrate a measurement technique using a
streak camera that overcomes this limitation and provides a record of the arrival
times of individual photons. This allows us to investigate the dynamical
evolution of correlations between the individual photon emission events. We apply
our studies to micropillar lasers with semiconductor quantum dots as the active
material, operating in the regime of cavity quantum electrodynamics. For laser
resonators with a low cavity quality factor, Q, a smooth transition from photon
bunching to uncorrelated emission with increasing pumping is observed; for high-Q
resonators, we see a non-monotonic dependence around the threshold where quantum 
light emission can occur. We identify regimes of dynamical anti-bunching of
photons in agreement with the predictions of a microscopic theory that includes
semiconductor-specific effects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08126 
PMID: 19587766 


421. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):237-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08082.

Type IIn supernovae at redshift z approximately 2 from archival data.

Cooke J(1), Sullivan M, Barton EJ, Bullock JS, Carlberg RG, Gal-Yam A, Tollerud
E.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cosmology, Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of
California, Irvine, California 92697-4574, USA. cooke@uci.edu

Supernovae have been confirmed to redshift z approximately 1.7 (refs 1, 2) for
type Ia (thermonuclear detonation of a white dwarf) and to z approximately 0.7
(refs 1, 3-5) for type II (collapse of the core of the star). The subclass type
IIn (ref. 6) supernovae are luminous core-collapse explosions of massive stars
and, unlike other types, are very bright in the ultraviolet, which should enable 
them to be found optically at redshifts z approximately 2 and higher. In
addition, the interaction of the ejecta with circumstellar material creates
strong, long-lived emission lines that allow spectroscopic confirmation of many
events of this type at z approximately 2 for 3-5 years after explosion (ref. 14).
Here we report three spectroscopically confirmed type IIn supernovae, at
redshifts z = 0.808, 2.013 and 2.357, detected in archival data using a method
designed to exploit these properties at z approximately 2. Type IIn supernovae
directly probe the formation of massive stars at high redshift. The number found 
to date is consistent with the expectations of a locally measured stellar initial
mass function, but not with an evolving initial mass function proposed to explain
independent observations at low and high redshift.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08082 
PMID: 19587765 


422. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):231-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08159.

Mechanisms promoting translocations in editing and switching peripheral B cells.

Wang JH(1), Gostissa M, Yan CT, Goff P, Hickernell T, Hansen E, Difilippantonio
S, Wesemann DR, Zarrin AA, Rajewsky K, Nussenzweig A, Alt FW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):184-6.

Variable, diversity and joining gene segment (V(D)J) recombination assembles
immunoglobulin heavy or light chain (IgH or IgL) variable region exons in
developing bone marrow B cells, whereas class switch recombination (CSR)
exchanges IgH constant region exons in peripheral B cells. Both processes use
directed DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) repaired by non-homologous end-joining
(NHEJ). Errors in either V(D)J recombination or CSR can initiate chromosomal
translocations, including oncogenic IgH locus (Igh) to c-myc (also known as Myc) 
translocations of peripheral B cell lymphomas. Collaboration between these
processes has also been proposed to initiate translocations. However, the
occurrence of V(D)J recombination in peripheral B cells is controversial. Here we
show that activated NHEJ-deficient splenic B cells accumulate
V(D)J-recombination-associated breaks at the lambda IgL locus (Igl), as well as
CSR-associated Igh breaks, often in the same cell. Moreover, Igl and Igh breaks
are frequently joined to form translocations, a phenomenon associated with
specific Igh-Igl co-localization. Igh and c-myc also co-localize in these cells; 
correspondingly, the introduction of frequent c-myc DSBs robustly promotes
Igh-c-myc translocations. Our studies show peripheral B cells that attempt
secondary V(D)J recombination, and determine a role for mechanistic factors in
promoting recurrent translocations in tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08159 
PMCID: PMC2907259
PMID: 19587764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):213-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08135.

The role of black holes in galaxy formation and evolution.

Cattaneo A(1), Faber SM, Binney J, Dekel A, Kormendy J, Mushotzky R, Babul A,
Best PN, Brüggen M, Fabian AC, Frenk CS, Khalatyan A, Netzer H, Mahdavi A, Silk
J, Steinmetz M, Wisotzki L.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysikalisches Institut Potsdam, An der Sternwarte 16, 14482 Potsdam,
Germany. acattaneo@aip.de

Virtually all massive galaxies, including our own, host central black holes
ranging in mass from millions to billions of solar masses. The growth of these
black holes releases vast amounts of energy that powers quasars and other weaker 
active galactic nuclei. A tiny fraction of this energy, if absorbed by the host
galaxy, could halt star formation by heating and ejecting ambient gas. A central 
question in galaxy evolution is the degree to which this process has caused the
decline of star formation in large elliptical galaxies, which typically have
little cold gas and few young stars, unlike spiral galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08135 
PMID: 19587763 


424. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08121. Epub 2009 Jun 28.

Demonstration of two-qubit algorithms with a superconducting quantum processor.

DiCarlo L(1), Chow JM, Gambetta JM, Bishop LS, Johnson BR, Schuster DI, Majer J, 
Blais A, Frunzio L, Girvin SM, Schoelkopf RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):187-8.

Quantum computers, which harness the superposition and entanglement of physical
states, could outperform their classical counterparts in solving problems with
technological impact-such as factoring large numbers and searching databases. A
quantum processor executes algorithms by applying a programmable sequence of
gates to an initialized register of qubits, which coherently evolves into a final
state containing the result of the computation. Building a quantum processor is
challenging because of the need to meet simultaneously requirements that are in
conflict: state preparation, long coherence times, universal gate operations and 
qubit readout. Processors based on a few qubits have been demonstrated using
nuclear magnetic resonance, cold ion trap and optical systems, but a solid-state 
realization has remained an outstanding challenge. Here we demonstrate a
two-qubit superconducting processor and the implementation of the Grover search
and Deutsch-Jozsa quantum algorithms. We use a two-qubit interaction, tunable in 
strength by two orders of magnitude on nanosecond timescales, which is mediated
by a cavity bus in a circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture. This
interaction allows the generation of highly entangled states with concurrence up 
to 94 per cent. Although this processor constitutes an important step in quantum 
computing with integrated circuits, continuing efforts to increase qubit
coherence times, gate performance and register size will be required to fulfil
the promise of a scalable technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08121 
PMID: 19561592 


425. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):274-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08102. Epub 2009 Jun 17.

Unlimited multistability in multisite phosphorylation systems.

Thomson M(1), Gunawardena J.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Program, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Reversible phosphorylation on serine, threonine and tyrosine is the most widely
studied posttranslational modification of proteins. The number of phosphorylated 
sites on a protein (n) shows a significant increase from prokaryotes, with n </= 
7 sites, to eukaryotes, with examples having n >/= 150 sites. Multisite
phosphorylation has many roles and site conservation indicates that increasing
numbers of sites cannot be due merely to promiscuous phosphorylation. A substrate
with n sites has an exponential number (2(n)) of phospho-forms and individual
phospho-forms may have distinct biological effects. The distribution of these
phospho-forms and how this distribution is regulated have remained unknown. Here 
we show that, when kinase and phosphatase act in opposition on a multisite
substrate, the system can exhibit distinct stable phospho-form distributions at
steady state and that the maximum number of such distributions increases with n. 
Whereas some stable distributions are focused on a single phospho-form, others
are more diffuse, giving the phospho-proteome the potential to behave as a fluid 
regulatory network able to encode information and flexibly respond to varying
demands. Such plasticity may underlie complex information processing in
eukaryotic cells and suggests a functional advantage in having many sites. Our
results follow from the unusual geometry of the steady-state phospho-form
concentrations, which we show to constitute a rational algebraic curve,
irrespective of n. We thereby reduce the complexity of calculating steady states 
from simulating 3 x 2(n) differential equations to solving two algebraic
equations, while treating parameters symbolically. We anticipate that these
methods can be extended to systems with multiple substrates and multiple enzymes 
catalysing different modifications, as found in posttranslational modification
'codes' such as the histone code. Whereas simulations struggle with exponentially
increasing molecular complexity, mathematical methods of the kind developed here 
can provide a new language in which to articulate the principles of cellular
information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08102 
PMCID: PMC2859978
PMID: 19536158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):220-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08112. Epub 2009 Jun 17.

Adaptive prediction of environmental changes by microorganisms.

Mitchell A(1), Romano GH, Groisman B, Yona A, Dekel E, Kupiec M, Dahan O, Pilpel 
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science Rehovot 76100,
Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):181.

Natural habitats of some microorganisms may fluctuate erratically, whereas
others, which are more predictable, offer the opportunity to prepare in advance
for the next environmental change. In analogy to classical Pavlovian
conditioning, microorganisms may have evolved to anticipate environmental stimuli
by adapting to their temporal order of appearance. Here we present evidence for
environmental change anticipation in two model microorganisms, Escherichia coli
and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show that anticipation is an adaptive trait,
because pre-exposure to the stimulus that typically appears early in the ecology 
improves the organism's fitness when encountered with a second stimulus.
Additionally, we observe loss of the conditioned response in E. coli strains that
were repeatedly exposed in a laboratory evolution experiment only to the first
stimulus. Focusing on the molecular level reveals that the natural temporal order
of stimuli is embedded in the wiring of the regulatory network-early stimuli
pre-induce genes that would be needed for later ones, yet later stimuli only
induce genes needed to cope with them. Our work indicates that environmental
anticipation is an adaptive trait that was repeatedly selected for during
evolution and thus may be ubiquitous in biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08112 
PMID: 19536156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08118. Epub 2009 Jun 14.

CD14 regulates the dendritic cell life cycle after LPS exposure through NFAT
activation.

Zanoni I(1), Ostuni R, Capuano G, Collini M, Caccia M, Ronchi AE, Rocchetti M,
Mingozzi F, Foti M, Chirico G, Costa B, Zaza A, Ricciardi-Castagnoli P, Granucci 
F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Bioscience, University of Milano-Bicocca,
Piazza della Scienza 2, 20126 Milan, Italy.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are the best characterized pattern recognition
receptors. Individual TLRs recruit diverse combinations of adaptor proteins,
triggering signal transduction pathways and leading to the activation of various 
transcription factors, including nuclear factor kappaB, activation protein 1 and 
interferon regulatory factors. Interleukin-2 is one of the molecules produced by 
mouse dendritic cells after stimulation by different pattern recognition receptor
agonists. By analogy with the events after T-cell receptor engagement leading to 
interleukin-2 production, it is therefore plausible that the stimulation of TLRs 
on dendritic cells may lead to activation of the Ca(2+)/calcineurin and NFAT
(nuclear factor of activated T cells) pathway. Here we show that mouse dendritic 
cell stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces Src-family kinase and
phospholipase Cgamma2 activation, influx of extracellular Ca(2+) and
calcineurin-dependent nuclear NFAT translocation. The initiation of this pathway 
is independent of TLR4 engagement, and dependent exclusively on CD14. We also
show that LPS-induced NFAT activation via CD14 is necessary to cause the
apoptotic death of terminally differentiated dendritic cells, an event that is
essential for maintaining self-tolerance and preventing autoimmunity.
Consequently, blocking this pathway in vivo causes prolonged dendritic cell
survival and an increase in T-cell priming capability. Our findings reveal novel 
aspects of molecular signalling triggered by LPS in dendritic cells, and identify
a new role for CD14: the regulation of the dendritic cell life cycle through NFAT
activation. Given the involvement of CD14 in disease, including sepsis and
chronic heart failure, the discovery of signal transduction pathways activated
exclusively via CD14 is an important step towards the development of potential
treatments involving interference with CD14 functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08118 
PMID: 19525933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):225-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08151. Epub 2009 Jun 14.

CCR3 is a target for age-related macular degeneration diagnosis and therapy.

Takeda A(1), Baffi JZ, Kleinman ME, Cho WG, Nozaki M, Yamada K, Kaneko H,
Albuquerque RJ, Dridi S, Saito K, Raisler BJ, Budd SJ, Geisen P, Munitz A, Ambati
BK, Green MG, Ishibashi T, Wright JD, Humbles AA, Gerard CJ, Ogura Y, Pan Y,
Smith JR, Grisanti S, Hartnett ME, Rothenberg ME, Ambati J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, Kentucky 40506, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):182-3.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a leading cause of blindness worldwide,
is as prevalent as cancer in industrialized nations. Most blindness in AMD
results from invasion of the retina by choroidal neovascularisation (CNV). Here
we show that the eosinophil/mast cell chemokine receptor CCR3 is specifically
expressed in choroidal neovascular endothelial cells in humans with AMD, and that
despite the expression of its ligands eotaxin-1, -2 and -3, neither eosinophils
nor mast cells are present in human CNV. Genetic or pharmacological targeting of 
CCR3 or eotaxins inhibited injury-induced CNV in mice. CNV suppression by CCR3
blockade was due to direct inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation, and was 
uncoupled from inflammation because it occurred in mice lacking eosinophils or
mast cells, and was independent of macrophage and neutrophil recruitment. CCR3
blockade was more effective at reducing CNV than vascular endothelial growth
factor A (VEGF-A) neutralization, which is in clinical use at present, and,
unlike VEGF-A blockade, is not toxic to the mouse retina. In vivo imaging with
CCR3-targeting quantum dots located spontaneous CNV invisible to standard
fluorescein angiography in mice before retinal invasion. CCR3 targeting might
reduce vision loss due to AMD through early detection and therapeutic
angioinhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08151 
PMCID: PMC2712122
PMID: 19525930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):259-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08099. Epub 2009 Jun 10.

Bone-marrow adipocytes as negative regulators of the haematopoietic
microenvironment.

Naveiras O(1), Nardi V, Wenzel PL, Hauschka PV, Fahey F, Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston and Dana
Farber Cancer Institute, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Osteoblasts and endothelium constitute functional niches that support
haematopoietic stem cells in mammalian bone marrow. Adult bone marrow also
contains adipocytes, the number of which correlates inversely with the
haematopoietic activity of the marrow. Fatty infiltration of haematopoietic red
marrow follows irradiation or chemotherapy and is a diagnostic feature in
biopsies from patients with marrow aplasia. To explore whether adipocytes
influence haematopoiesis or simply fill marrow space, we compared the
haematopoietic activity of distinct regions of the mouse skeleton that differ in 
adiposity. Here we show, by flow cytometry, colony-forming activity and
competitive repopulation assay, that haematopoietic stem cells and short-term
progenitors are reduced in frequency in the adipocyte-rich vertebrae of the mouse
tail relative to the adipocyte-free vertebrae of the thorax. In lipoatrophic
A-ZIP/F1 'fatless' mice, which are genetically incapable of forming adipocytes,
and in mice treated with the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma
inhibitor bisphenol A diglycidyl ether, which inhibits adipogenesis, marrow
engraftment after irradiation is accelerated relative to wild-type or untreated
mice. These data implicate adipocytes as predominantly negative regulators of the
bone-marrow microenvironment, and indicate that antagonizing marrow adipogenesis 
may enhance haematopoietic recovery in clinical bone-marrow transplantation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08099 
PMCID: PMC2831539
PMID: 19516257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):278-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08136. Epub 2009 Jun 7.

A mechanism linking extra centrosomes to chromosomal instability.

Ganem NJ(1), Godinho SA, Pellman D.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Chromosomal instability (CIN) is a hallmark of many tumours and correlates with
the presence of extra centrosomes. However, a direct mechanistic link between
extra centrosomes and CIN has not been established. It has been proposed that
extra centrosomes generate CIN by promoting multipolar anaphase, a highly
abnormal division that produces three or more aneuploid daughter cells. Here we
use long-term live-cell imaging to demonstrate that cells with multiple
centrosomes rarely undergo multipolar cell divisions, and the progeny of these
divisions are typically inviable. Thus, multipolar divisions cannot explain
observed rates of CIN. In contrast, we observe that CIN cells with extra
centrosomes routinely undergo bipolar cell divisions, but display a significantly
increased frequency of lagging chromosomes during anaphase. To define the
mechanism underlying this mitotic defect, we generated cells that differ only in 
their centrosome number. We demonstrate that extra centrosomes alone are
sufficient to promote chromosome missegregation during bipolar cell division.
These segregation errors are a consequence of cells passing through a transient
'multipolar spindle intermediate' in which merotelic kinetochore-microtubule
attachment errors accumulate before centrosome clustering and anaphase. These
findings provide a direct mechanistic link between extra centrosomes and CIN, two
common characteristics of solid tumours. We propose that this mechanism may be a 
common underlying cause of CIN in human cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08136 
PMCID: PMC2743290
PMID: 19506557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):283-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08084. Epub 2009 Jun 3.

Uniparental expression of PolIV-dependent siRNAs in developing endosperm of
Arabidopsis.

Mosher RA(1), Melnyk CW, Kelly KA, Dunn RM, Studholme DJ, Baulcombe DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Downing Street,
Cambridge CB2 3EA, UK.

Most eukaryotes produce small RNA (sRNA) mediators of gene silencing that bind to
Argonaute proteins and guide them, by base pairing, to an RNA target. MicroRNAs
(miRNAs) that normally target messenger RNAs for degradation or translational
arrest are the best-understood class of sRNAs. However, in Arabidopsis thaliana
flowers, miRNAs account for only 5% of the sRNA mass and less than 0.1% of the
sequence complexity. The remaining sRNAs form a complex population of more than
100,000 different small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) transcribed from thousands of
loci. The biogenesis of most of the siRNAs in Arabidopsis are dependent on RNA
polymerase IV (PolIV), a homologue of DNA-dependent RNA polymerase II. A subset
of these PolIV-dependent (p4)-siRNAs are involved in stress responses, and others
are associated with epigenetic modifications to DNA or chromatin; however, the
biological role is not known for most of them. Here we show that the predominant 
phase of p4-siRNA accumulation is initiated in the maternal gametophyte and
continues during seed development. Expression of p4-siRNAs in developing
endosperm is specifically from maternal chromosomes. Our results provide the
first evidence for a link between genomic imprinting and RNA silencing in plants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08084 
PMID: 19494814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08100. Epub 2009 Jun 3.

T cells dampen innate immune responses through inhibition of NLRP1 and NLRP3
inflammasomes.

Guarda G(1), Dostert C, Staehli F, Cabalzar K, Castillo R, Tardivel A, Schneider 
P, Tschopp J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Lausanne, Chemin des Boveresses 155,
CH-1066 Epalinges, Switzerland.

Inflammation is a protective attempt by the host to remove injurious stimuli and 
initiate the tissue healing process. The inflammatory response must be actively
terminated, however, because failure to do so can result in 'bystander' damage to
tissues and diseases such as arthritis or type-2 diabetes. Yet the mechanisms
controlling excessive inflammatory responses are still poorly understood. Here we
show that mouse effector and memory CD4(+) T cells abolish macrophage
inflammasome-mediated caspase-1 activation and subsequent interleukin 1beta
release in a cognate manner. Inflammasome inhibition is observed for all tested
NLRP1 (commonly called NALP1) and NLRP3 (NALP3 or cryopyrin) activators, whereas 
NLRC4 (IPAF) inflammasome function and release of other inflammatory mediators
such as CXCL2, interleukin 6 and tumour necrosis factor are not affected.
Suppression of the NLRP3 inflammasome requires cell-to-cell contact and can be
mimicked by macrophage stimulation with selected ligands of the tumour necrosis
factor family, such as CD40L (also known as CD40LG). In a NLRP3-dependent
peritonitis model, effector CD4(+) T cells are responsible for decreasing
neutrophil recruitment in an antigen-dependent manner. Our findings reveal an
unexpected mechanism of inflammasome inhibition, whereby effector and memory T
cells suppress potentially damaging inflammation, yet leave the primary
inflammatory response, crucial for the onset of immunity, intact.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08100 
PMID: 19494813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):287-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08086. Epub 2009 May 31.

A histone H3 lysine 36 trimethyltransferase links Nkx2-5 to Wolf-Hirschhorn
syndrome.

Nimura K(1), Ura K, Shiratori H, Ikawa M, Okabe M, Schwartz RJ, Kaneda Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gene Therapy Science, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine, 2-2 Yamada-oka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Diverse histone modifications are catalysed and recognized by various specific
proteins, establishing unique modification patterns that act as transcription
signals. In particular, histone H3 trimethylation at lysine 36 (H3K36me3) is
associated with actively transcribed regions and has been proposed to provide
landmarks for continuing transcription; however, the control mechanisms and
functions of H3K36me3 in higher eukaryotes are unknown. Here we show that the
H3K36me3-specific histone methyltransferase (HMTase) Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome
candidate 1 (WHSC1, also known as NSD2 or MMSET) functions in transcriptional
regulation together with developmental transcription factors whose defects
overlap with the human disease Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome (WHS). We found that
mouse Whsc1, one of five putative Set2 homologues, governed H3K36me3 along
euchromatin by associating with the cell-type-specific transcription factors
Sall1, Sall4 and Nanog in embryonic stem cells, and Nkx2-5 in embryonic hearts,
regulating the expression of their target genes. Whsc1-deficient mice showed
growth retardation and various WHS-like midline defects, including congenital
cardiovascular anomalies. The effects of Whsc1 haploinsufficiency were increased 
in Nkx2-5 heterozygous mutant hearts, indicating their functional link. We
propose that WHSC1 functions together with developmental transcription factors to
prevent the inappropriate transcription that can lead to various
pathophysiologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08086 
PMID: 19483677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):118-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08113.

A parallel circuit of LIF signalling pathways maintains pluripotency of mouse ES 
cells.

Niwa H(1), Ogawa K, Shimosato D, Adachi K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Pluripotent Cell Studies, RIKEN Center for Developmental
Biology, 2-2-3 Minatojima-minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe 6500047, Japan.
niwa@cdb.riken.jp

The cytokine leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) integrates signals into mouse
embryonic stem (ES) cells to maintain pluripotency. Although the Jak-Stat3
pathway is essential and sufficient to mediate LIF signals, it is still unclear
how these signals are linked to the core circuitry of pluripotency-associated
transcription factors, consisting of Oct3/4 (also called Pou5f1), Sox2 and Nanog.
Here we show that two LIF signalling pathways are each connected to the core
circuitry via different transcription factors. In mouse ES cells, Klf4 is mainly 
activated by the Jak-Stat3 pathway and preferentially activates Sox2, whereas
Tbx3 is preferentially regulated by the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase-Akt and 
mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways and predominantly stimulates Nanog. In 
the absence of LIF, artificial expression of Klf4 or Tbx3 is sufficient to
maintain pluripotency while maintaining the expression of Oct3/4. Notably,
overexpression of Nanog supports LIF-independent self-renewal of mouse ES cells
in the absence of Klf4 and Tbx3 activity. Therefore, Klf4 and Tbx3 are involved
in mediating LIF signalling to the core circuitry but are not directly associated
with the maintenance of pluripotency, because ES cells keep pluripotency without 
their expression in the particular context.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08113 
PMID: 19571885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08191.

Human ISL1 heart progenitors generate diverse multipotent cardiovascular cell
lineages.

Bu L(1), Jiang X, Martin-Puig S, Caron L, Zhu S, Shao Y, Roberts DJ, Huang PL,
Domian IJ, Chien KR.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charles River 
Plaza/CPZN 3208, 185 Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):18-9.

The generation and expansion of diverse cardiovascular cell lineages is a
critical step during human cardiogenesis, with major implications for congenital 
heart disease. Unravelling the mechanisms for the diversification of human heart 
cell lineages has been hampered by the lack of genetic tools to purify early
cardiac progenitors and define their developmental potential. Recent studies in
the mouse embryo have identified a multipotent cardiac progenitor that
contributes to all of the major cell types in the murine heart. In contrast to
murine development, human cardiogenesis has a much longer onset of heart cell
lineage diversification and expansion, suggesting divergent pathways. Here we
identify a diverse set of human fetal ISL1(+) cardiovascular progenitors that
give rise to the cardiomyocyte, smooth muscle and endothelial cell lineages.
Using two independent transgenic and gene-targeting approaches in human embryonic
stem cell lines, we show that purified ISL1(+) primordial progenitors are capable
of self-renewal and expansion before differentiation into the three major cell
types in the heart. These results lay the foundation for the generation of human 
model systems for cardiovascular disease and novel approaches for human
regenerative cardiovascular medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08191 
PMID: 19571884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):89-93. doi: 10.1038/nature08095.

Seismic reflection images of a near-axis melt sill within the lower crust at the 
Juan de Fuca ridge.

Canales JP(1), Nedimović MR, Kent GM, Carbotte SM, Detrick RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA. jpcanales@whoi.edu

The oceanic crust extends over two-thirds of the Earth's solid surface, and is
generated along mid-ocean ridges from melts derived from the upwelling mantle.
The upper and middle crust are constructed by dyking and sea-floor eruptions
originating from magma accumulated in mid-crustal lenses at the spreading axis,
but the style of accretion of the lower oceanic crust is actively debated. Models
based on geological and petrological data from ophiolites propose that the lower 
oceanic crust is accreted from melt sills intruded at multiple levels between the
Moho transition zone (MTZ) and the mid-crustal lens, consistent with geophysical 
studies that suggest the presence of melt within the lower crust. However,
seismic images of molten sills within the lower crust have been elusive. Until
now, only seismic reflections from mid-crustal melt lenses and sills within the
MTZ have been described, suggesting that melt is efficiently transported through 
the lower crust. Here we report deep crustal seismic reflections off the southern
Juan de Fuca ridge that we interpret as originating from a molten sill at present
accreting the lower oceanic crust. The sill sits 5-6 km beneath the sea floor and
850-900 m above the MTZ, and is located 1.4-3.2 km off the spreading axis. Our
results provide evidence for the existence of low-permeability barriers to melt
migration within the lower section of modern oceanic crust forming at
intermediate-to-fast spreading rates, as inferred from ophiolite studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08095 
PMID: 19571883 


437. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08133.

The role of terrestrial plants in limiting atmospheric CO(2) decline over the
past 24 million years.

Pagani M(1), Caldeira K, Berner R, Beerling DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520, USA. mark.pagani@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):40-1.

Environmental conditions during the past 24 million years are thought to have
been favourable for enhanced rates of atmospheric carbon dioxide drawdown by
silicate chemical weathering. Proxy records indicate, however, that the Earth's
atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations did not fall below about 200-250 parts 
per million during this period. The stabilization of atmospheric carbon dioxide
concentrations near this minimum value suggests that strong negative feedback
mechanisms inhibited further drawdown of atmospheric carbon dioxide by high rates
of global silicate rock weathering. Here we investigate one possible negative
feedback mechanism, occurring under relatively low carbon dioxide concentrations 
and in warm climates, that is related to terrestrial plant productivity and its
role in the decomposition of silicate minerals. We use simulations of terrestrial
and geochemical carbon cycles and available experimental evidence to show that
vegetation activity in upland regions of active orogens was severely limited by
near-starvation of carbon dioxide in combination with global warmth over this
period. These conditions diminished biotic-driven silicate rock weathering and
thereby attenuated an important long-term carbon dioxide sink. Although our
modelling results are semi-quantitative and do not capture the full range of
biogeochemical feedbacks that could influence the climate, our analysis indicates
that the dynamic equilibrium between plants, climate and the geosphere probably
buffered the minimum atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations over the past 24
million years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08133 
PMID: 19571882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):76-80. doi: 10.1038/nature08134.

A single-molecule optical transistor.

Hwang J(1), Pototschnig M, Lettow R, Zumofen G, Renn A, Götzinger S, Sandoghdar
V.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physical Chemistry and optETH, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):42-4.

The transistor is one of the most influential inventions of modern times and is
ubiquitous in present-day technologies. In the continuing development of
increasingly powerful computers as well as alternative technologies based on the 
prospects of quantum information processing, switching and amplification
functionalities are being sought in ultrasmall objects, such as nanotubes,
molecules or atoms. Among the possible choices of signal carriers, photons are
particularly attractive because of their robustness against decoherence, but
their control at the nanometre scale poses a significant challenge as
conventional nonlinear materials become ineffective. To remedy this shortcoming, 
resonances in optical emitters can be exploited, and atomic ensembles have been
successfully used to mediate weak light beams. However, single-emitter
manipulation of photonic signals has remained elusive and has only been studied
in high-finesse microcavities or waveguides. Here we demonstrate that a single
dye molecule can operate as an optical transistor and coherently attenuate or
amplify a tightly focused laser beam, depending on the power of a second 'gating'
beam that controls the degree of population inversion. Such a quantum optical
transistor has also the potential for manipulating non-classical light fields
down to the single-photon level. We discuss some of the hurdles along the road
towards practical implementations, and their possible solutions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08134 
PMID: 19571881 


439. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):73-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08083.

An intermediate-mass black hole of over 500 solar masses in the galaxy ESO
243-49.

Farrell SA(1), Webb NA, Barret D, Godet O, Rodrigues JM.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS, CESR, 9 Avenue du Colonel Roche, F-31028 Toulouse
Cedex 9, France. saf28@star.le.ac.uk

Ultraluminous X-ray sources are extragalactic objects located outside the nucleus
of the host galaxy with bolometric luminosities exceeding 10(39) erg s(-1). These
extreme luminosities-if the emission is isotropic and below the theoretical
(Eddington) limit, where the radiation pressure is balanced by the gravitational 
pressure-imply the presence of an accreting black hole with a mass of
approximately 10(2)-10(5) solar masses (M[symbol: see text]). The existence of
such intermediate-mass black holes is in dispute, and though many candidates have
been proposed, none are widely accepted as definitive. Here we report the
detection of a variable X-ray source with a maximum 0.2-10 keV luminosity of up
to 1.1 x 10(42) erg s(-1) in the edge-on spiral galaxy ESO 243-49, with an
implied conservative lower limit for the mass of the black hole of approximately 
500M[symbol: see text].

DOI: 10.1038/nature08083 
PMID: 19571880 


440. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):66-72. doi: 10.1038/nature08137.

Telomerase modulates Wnt signalling by association with target gene chromatin.

Park JI(1), Venteicher AS, Hong JY, Choi J, Jun S, Shkreli M, Chang W, Meng Z,
Cheung P, Ji H, McLaughlin M, Veenstra TD, Nusse R, McCrea PD, Artandi SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):44-5.

Stem cells are controlled, in part, by genetic pathways frequently dysregulated
during human tumorigenesis. Either stimulation of Wnt/beta-catenin signalling or 
overexpression of telomerase is sufficient to activate quiescent epidermal stem
cells in vivo, although the mechanisms by which telomerase exerts these effects
are not understood. Here we show that telomerase directly modulates
Wnt/beta-catenin signalling by serving as a cofactor in a beta-catenin
transcriptional complex. The telomerase protein component TERT (telomerase
reverse transcriptase) interacts with BRG1 (also called SMARCA4), a
SWI/SNF-related chromatin remodelling protein, and activates Wnt-dependent
reporters in cultured cells and in vivo. TERT serves an essential role in
formation of the anterior-posterior axis in Xenopus laevis embryos, and this
defect in Wnt signalling manifests as homeotic transformations in the vertebrae
of Tert(-/-) mice. Chromatin immunoprecipitation of the endogenous TERT protein
from mouse gastrointestinal tract shows that TERT physically occupies gene
promoters of Wnt-dependent genes. These data reveal an unanticipated role for
telomerase as a transcriptional modulator of the Wnt/beta-catenin signalling
pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08137 
PMCID: PMC4349391
PMID: 19571879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):60-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08152.

Cells keep a memory of their tissue origin during axolotl limb regeneration.

Kragl M(1), Knapp D, Nacu E, Khattak S, Maden M, Epperlein HH, Tanaka EM.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics,
Pfotenhauerstrasse 108.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):39-40.

During limb regeneration adult tissue is converted into a zone of
undifferentiated progenitors called the blastema that reforms the diverse tissues
of the limb. Previous experiments have led to wide acceptance that limb tissues
dedifferentiate to form pluripotent cells. Here we have reexamined this question 
using an integrated GFP transgene to track the major limb tissues during limb
regeneration in the salamander Ambystoma mexicanum (the axolotl). Surprisingly,
we find that each tissue produces progenitor cells with restricted potential.
Therefore, the blastema is a heterogeneous collection of restricted progenitor
cells. On the basis of these findings, we further demonstrate that positional
identity is a cell-type-specific property of blastema cells, in which
cartilage-derived blastema cells harbour positional identity but Schwann-derived 
cells do not. Our results show that the complex phenomenon of limb regeneration
can be achieved without complete dedifferentiation to a pluripotent state, a
conclusion with important implications for regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08152 
PMID: 19571878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):49-52. doi: 10.1038/nature08180.

Elite and stochastic models for induced pluripotent stem cell generation.

Yamanaka S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA), Kyoto University, Kyoto
606-8507, Japan. yamanaka@cira.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Induced pluripotent stem cells offer unprecedented potential for disease
research, drug screening, toxicology and regenerative medicine. However, the
process of reprogramming is inefficient and often incomplete. Here I consider
reasons for bottlenecks in induced pluripotent stem cell generation, and propose 
a model in which most or all cells have the potential to become pluripotent.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08180 
PMID: 19571877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08155. Epub 2009 Jun 21.

mTOR regulates memory CD8 T-cell differentiation.

Araki K(1), Turner AP, Shaffer VO, Gangappa S, Keller SA, Bachmann MF, Larsen CP,
Ahmed R.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center and Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Vaccines. 2009 Nov;8(11):1535-9.
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):41-2.

Memory CD8 T cells are a critical component of protective immunity, and inducing 
effective memory T-cell responses is a major goal of vaccines against chronic
infections and tumours. Considerable effort has gone into designing vaccine
regimens that will increase the magnitude of the memory response, but there has
been minimal emphasis on developing strategies to improve the functional
qualities of memory T cells. Here we show that mTOR (mammalian target of
rapamycin, also known as FRAP1) is a major regulator of memory CD8 T-cell
differentiation, and in contrast to what we expected, the immunosuppressive drug 
rapamycin has immunostimulatory effects on the generation of memory CD8 T cells. 
Treatment of mice with rapamycin following acute lymphocytic choriomeningitis
virus infection enhanced not only the quantity but also the quality of
virus-specific CD8 T cells. Similar effects were seen after immunization of mice 
with a vaccine based on non-replicating virus-like particles. In addition,
rapamycin treatment also enhanced memory T-cell responses in non-human primates
following vaccination with modified vaccinia virus Ankara. Rapamycin was
effective during both the expansion and contraction phases of the T-cell
response; during the expansion phase it increased the number of memory
precursors, and during the contraction phase (effector to memory transition) it
accelerated the memory T-cell differentiation program. Experiments using RNA
interference to inhibit expression of mTOR, raptor (also known as 4932417H02Rik) 
or FKBP12 (also known as FKBP1A) in antigen-specific CD8 T cells showed that mTOR
acts intrinsically through the mTORC1 (mTOR complex 1) pathway to regulate memory
T-cell differentiation. Thus these studies identify a molecular pathway
regulating memory formation and provide an effective strategy for improving the
functional qualities of vaccine- or infection-induced memory T cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08155 
PMCID: PMC2710807
PMID: 19543266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08098. Epub 2009 Jun 17.

The pluripotency factor Oct4 interacts with Ctcf and also controls X-chromosome
pairing and counting.

Donohoe ME(1), Silva SS, Pinter SF, Xu N, Lee JT.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, USA.

Pluripotency of embryonic stem (ES) cells is controlled by defined transcription 
factors. During differentiation, mouse ES cells undergo global epigenetic
reprogramming, as exemplified by X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) in which one
female X chromosome is silenced to achieve gene dosage parity between the sexes. 
Somatic XCI is regulated by homologous X-chromosome pairing and counting, and by 
the random choice of future active and inactive X chromosomes. XCI and cell
differentiation are tightly coupled, as blocking one process compromises the
other and dedifferentiation of somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells is
accompanied by X chromosome reactivation. Recent evidence suggests coupling of
Xist expression to pluripotency factors occurs, but how the two are
interconnected remains unknown. Here we show that Oct4 (also known as Pou5f1)
lies at the top of the XCI hierarchy, and regulates XCI by triggering
X-chromosome pairing and counting. Oct4 directly binds Tsix and Xite, two
regulatory noncoding RNA genes of the X-inactivation centre, and also complexes
with XCI trans-factors, Ctcf and Yy1 (ref. 17), through protein-protein
interactions. Depletion of Oct4 blocks homologous X-chromosome pairing and
results in the inactivation of both X chromosomes in female cells. Thus, we have 
identified the first trans-factor that regulates counting, and ascribed new
functions to Oct4 during X-chromosome reprogramming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08098 
PMCID: PMC3057664
PMID: 19536159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature08123. Epub 2009 Jun 10.

Cyclic AMP intoxication of macrophages by a Mycobacterium tuberculosis adenylate 
cyclase.

Agarwal N(1), Lamichhane G, Gupta R, Nolan S, Bishai WR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, CRB2, Room 1.08,
1550 Orleans Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21231-1044, USA.

With 8.9 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths per year, tuberculosis is a
leading global killer that has not been effectively controlled. The causative
agent, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, proliferates within host macrophages where it 
modifies both its intracellular and local tissue environment, resulting in
caseous granulomas with incomplete bacterial sterilization. Although infection by
various mycobacterial species produces a cyclic AMP burst within macrophages that
influences cell signalling, the underlying mechanism for the cAMP burst remains
unclear. Here we show that among the 17 adenylate cyclase genes present in M.
tuberculosis, at least one (Rv0386) is required for virulence. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that the Rv0386 adenylate cyclase facilitates delivery of
bacterial-derived cAMP into the macrophage cytoplasm. Loss of Rv0386 and the
intramacrophage cAMP it delivers results in reductions in TNF-alpha production
via the protein kinase A and cAMP response-element-binding protein pathway,
decreased immunopathology in animal tissues, and diminished bacterial survival.
Direct intoxication of host cells by bacterial-derived cAMP may enable M.
tuberculosis to modify both its intracellular and tissue environments to
facilitate its long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08123 
PMID: 19516256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08103. Epub 2009 Jun 7.

Neural mechanisms of rapid natural scene categorization in human visual cortex.

Peelen MV(1), Fei-Fei L, Kastner S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540,
USA. mpeelen@princeton.edu

The visual system has an extraordinary capability to extract categorical
information from complex natural scenes. For example, subjects are able to
rapidly detect the presence of object categories such as animals or vehicles in
new scenes that are presented very briefly. This is even true when subjects do
not pay attention to the scenes and simultaneously perform an unrelated
attentionally demanding task, a stark contrast to the capacity limitations
predicted by most theories of visual attention. Here we show a neural basis for
rapid natural scene categorization in the visual cortex, using functional
magnetic resonance imaging and an object categorization task in which subjects
detected the presence of people or cars in briefly presented natural scenes. The 
multi-voxel pattern of neural activity in the object-selective cortex evoked by
the natural scenes contained information about the presence of the target
category, even when the scenes were task-irrelevant and presented outside the
focus of spatial attention. These findings indicate that the rapid detection of
categorical information in natural scenes is mediated by a category-specific
biasing mechanism in object-selective cortex that operates in parallel across the
visual field, and biases information processing in favour of objects belonging to
the target object category.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08103 
PMCID: PMC2752739
PMID: 19506558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08097. Epub 2009 Jun 3.

Enhancing CD8 T-cell memory by modulating fatty acid metabolism.

Pearce EL(1), Walsh MC, Cejas PJ, Harms GM, Shen H, Wang LS, Jones RG, Choi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):41-2.

CD8 T cells, which have a crucial role in immunity to infection and cancer, are
maintained in constant numbers, but on antigen stimulation undergo a
developmental program characterized by distinct phases encompassing the expansion
and then contraction of antigen-specific effector (T(E)) populations, followed by
the persistence of long-lived memory (T(M)) cells. Although this predictable
pattern of CD8 T-cell responses is well established, the underlying cellular
mechanisms regulating the transition to T(M) cells remain undefined. Here we show
that tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), an
adaptor protein in the TNF-receptor and interleukin-1R/Toll-like receptor
superfamily, regulates CD8 T(M)-cell development after infection by modulating
fatty acid metabolism. We show that mice with a T-cell-specific deletion of TRAF6
mount robust CD8 T(E)-cell responses, but have a profound defect in their ability
to generate T(M) cells that is characterized by the disappearance of
antigen-specific cells in the weeks after primary immunization. Microarray
analyses revealed that TRAF6-deficient CD8 T cells exhibit altered expression of 
genes that regulate fatty acid metabolism. Consistent with this, activated CD8 T 
cells lacking TRAF6 display defective AMP-activated kinase activation and
mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (FAO) in response to growth factor withdrawal.
Administration of the anti-diabetic drug metformin restored FAO and CD8 T(M)-cell
generation in the absence of TRAF6. This treatment also increased CD8 T(M) cells 
in wild-type mice, and consequently was able to considerably improve the efficacy
of an experimental anti-cancer vaccine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08097 
PMCID: PMC2803086
PMID: 19494812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08087. Epub 2009 May 31.

Genome-wide silencing in Drosophila captures conserved apoptotic effectors.

Chew SK(1), Chen P, Link N, Galindo KA, Pogue K, Abrams JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Apoptosis is a conserved form of programmed cell death firmly established in the 
aetiology, pathogenesis and treatment of many human diseases. Central to the core
machinery of apoptosis are the caspases and their proximal regulators. Current
models for caspase control involve a balance of opposing elements, with variable 
contributions from positive and negative regulators among different cell types
and species. To advance a comprehensive view of components that support
caspase-dependent cell death, we conducted a genome-wide silencing screen in the 
Drosophila model. Our strategy used a library of double-stranded RNAs together
with a chemical antagonist of Inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) that
simulates the action of native regulators in the Reaper and Smac (also known as
Diablo) families. Here we present a highly validated set of targets that is
necessary for death provoked by several stimuli. Among these, Tango7 is
identified as a new effector. Cells depleted for this gene resisted apoptosis at 
a step before the induction of effector caspase activity, and the directed
silencing of Tango7 in Drosophila prevented caspase-dependent programmed cell
death. Unlike known apoptosis regulators in this model system, Tango7 activity
did not influence stimulus-dependent loss of Drosophila DIAP1 (also known as th
and IAP1), but instead regulated levels of the apical caspase Dronc (Nc).
Similarly, the human Tango7 counterpart, PCID1 (also known as EIF3M), impinged on
caspase 9, revealing a new regulatory axis affecting the apoptosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08087 
PMCID: PMC2777527
PMID: 19483676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08128. Epub 2009 May 31.

Giant tunnel electroresistance for non-destructive readout of ferroelectric
states.

Garcia V(1), Fusil S, Bouzehouane K, Enouz-Vedrenne S, Mathur ND, Barthélémy A,
Bibes M.

Author information: 
(1)Unité Mixte de Physique CNRS/Thales, 1 Av. A. Fresnel, Campus de l'Ecole
Polytechnique, 91767 Palaiseau, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):45-6.

Ferroelectrics possess a polarization that is spontaneous, stable and
electrically switchable, and submicrometre-thick ferroelectric films are
currently used as non-volatile memory elements with destructive capacitive
readout. Memories based on tunnel junctions with ultrathin ferroelectric barriers
would enable non-destructive resistive readout. However, the achievement of
room-temperature polarization stability and switching at very low thickness is
challenging. Here we use piezoresponse force microscopy at room temperature to
show robust ferroelectricity down to 1 nm in highly strained BaTiO(3) films; we
also use room-temperature conductive-tip atomic force microscopy to demonstrate
resistive readout of the polarization state through its influence on the tunnel
current. The resulting electroresistance effect scales exponentially with
ferroelectric film thickness, reaching approximately 75,000% at 3 nm. Our
approach exploits the otherwise undesirable leakage current-dominated by
tunnelling at these very low thicknesses-to read the polarization state without
destroying it. We demonstrate scalability down to 70 nm, corresponding to
potential densities of >16 Gbit inch(-2). These results pave the way towards
ferroelectric memories with simplified architectures, higher densities and faster
operation, and should inspire further exploration of the interplay between
quantum tunnelling and ferroelectricity at the nanoscale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08128 
PMID: 19483675 


450. Nature. 2009 Jul 2;460(7251):53-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08129. Epub 2009 May 31.

Disease-corrected haematopoietic progenitors from Fanconi anaemia induced
pluripotent stem cells.

Raya A(1), Rodríguez-Pizà I, Guenechea G, Vassena R, Navarro S, Barrero MJ,
Consiglio A, Castellà M, Río P, Sleep E, González F, Tiscornia G, Garreta E,
Aasen T, Veiga A, Verma IM, Surrallés J, Bueren J, Izpisúa Belmonte JC.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine in Barcelona, Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003
Barcelona, Spain.

The generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells has enabled the derivation
of patient-specific pluripotent cells and provided valuable experimental
platforms to model human disease. Patient-specific iPS cells are also thought to 
hold great therapeutic potential, although direct evidence for this is still
lacking. Here we show that, on correction of the genetic defect, somatic cells
from Fanconi anaemia patients can be reprogrammed to pluripotency to generate
patient-specific iPS cells. These cell lines appear indistinguishable from human 
embryonic stem cells and iPS cells from healthy individuals. Most importantly, we
show that corrected Fanconi-anaemia-specific iPS cells can give rise to
haematopoietic progenitors of the myeloid and erythroid lineages that are
phenotypically normal, that is, disease-free. These data offer proof-of-concept
that iPS cell technology can be used for the generation of disease-corrected,
patient-specific cells with potential value for cell therapy applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08129 
PMCID: PMC2720823
PMID: 19483674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1141-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08067.

Yurt, Coracle, Neurexin IV and the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase form a novel group of
epithelial polarity proteins.

Laprise P(1), Lau KM, Harris KP, Silva-Gagliardi NF, Paul SM, Beronja S, Beitel
GJ, McGlade CJ, Tepass U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Systems Biology, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 3G5, Canada.

The integrity of polarized epithelia is critical for development and human
health. Many questions remain concerning the full complement and the function of 
the proteins that regulate cell polarity. Here we report that the Drosophila FERM
proteins Yurt (Yrt) and Coracle (Cora) and the membrane proteins Neurexin IV
(Nrx-IV) and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase are a new group of functionally cooperating
epithelial polarity proteins. This 'Yrt/Cora group' promotes basolateral membrane
stability and shows negative regulatory interactions with the apical determinant 
Crumbs (Crb). Genetic analyses indicate that Nrx-IV and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase act
together with Cora in one pathway, whereas Yrt acts in a second redundant
pathway. Moreover, we show that the Yrt/Cora group is essential for epithelial
polarity during organogenesis but not when epithelial polarity is first
established or during terminal differentiation. This property of Yrt/Cora group
proteins explains the recovery of polarity in embryos lacking the function of the
Lethal giant larvae (Lgl) group of basolateral polarity proteins. We also find
that the mammalian Yrt orthologue EPB41L5 (also known as YMO1 and Limulus) is
required for lateral membrane formation, indicating a conserved function of Yrt
proteins in epithelial polarity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08067 
PMID: 19553998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08089.

(142)Nd evidence for an enriched Hadean reservoir in cratonic roots.

Upadhyay D(1), Scherer EE, Mezger K.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrallabor für Geochronologie, Institut für Mineralogie, Universität
Münster, Corrensstrasse 24, 48149 Münster, Germany. upadhyay@uni-muenster.de

The isotope (146)Sm undergoes alpha-decay to (142)Nd, with a half-life of 103
million years. Measurable variations in the (142)Nd/(144)Nd values of rocks
resulting from Sm-Nd fractionation could therefore only have been produced within
about 400 million years of the Solar System's formation (that is, when (146)Sm
was extant). The (142)Nd/(144)Nd compositions of terrestrial rocks are
accordingly a sensitive monitor of the main silicate differentiation events that 
took place in the early Earth. High (142)Nd/(144)Nd values measured in some
Archaean rocks from Greenland hint at the existence of an early
incompatible-element-depleted mantle. Here we present measurements of low
(142)Nd/(144)Nd values in 1.48-gigayear-(Gyr)-old lithospheric mantle-derived
alkaline rocks from the Khariar nepheline syenite complex in southeastern India. 
These data suggest that a reservoir that was relatively enriched in incompatible 
elements formed at least 4.2 Gyr ago and traces of its isotopic signature
persisted within the lithospheric root of the Bastar craton until at least 1.48
Gyr ago. These low (142)Nd/(144)Nd compositions may represent a diluted signature
of a Hadean (4 to 4.57 Gyr ago) enriched reservoir that is characterized by even 
lower values. That no evidence of the early depleted mantle has been observed in 
rocks younger than 3.6 Gyr (refs 3, 4, 7) implies that such domains had
effectively mixed back into the convecting mantle by then. In contrast, some
early enriched components apparently escaped this fate. Thus, the mantle sampled 
by magmatism since 3.6 Gyr ago may be biased towards a depleted composition that 
would be balanced by relatively more enriched reservoirs that are 'hidden' in
Hadean crust, the D'' layer of the lowermost mantle or, as we propose here, also 
within the roots of old cratons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08089 
PMID: 19553997 


453. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08101.

Enhanced carbon pump inferred from relaxation of nutrient limitation in the
glacial ocean.

Pichevin LE(1), Reynolds BC, Ganeshram RS, Cacho I, Pena L, Keefe K, Ellam RM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geosciences, Grant Institute, University of Edinburgh, West Main
Road, EH10 3JW, Edinburgh, UK. laetitia.pichevin@ed.ac.uk

The modern Eastern Equatorial Pacific (EEP) Ocean is a large oceanic source of
carbon to the atmosphere. Primary productivity over large areas of the EEP is
limited by silicic acid and iron availability, and because of this constraint the
organic carbon export to the deep ocean is unable to compensate for the
outgassing of carbon dioxide that occurs through upwelling of deep waters. It has
been suggested that the delivery of dust-borne iron to the glacial ocean could
have increased primary productivity and enhanced deep-sea carbon export in this
region, lowering atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations during glacial
periods. Such a role for the EEP is supported by higher organic carbon burial
rates documented in underlying glacial sediments, but lower opal accumulation
rates cast doubts on the importance of the EEP as an oceanic region for
significant glacial carbon dioxide drawdown. Here we present a new silicon
isotope record that suggests the paradoxical decline in opal accumulation rate in
the glacial EEP results from a decrease in the silicon to carbon uptake ratio of 
diatoms under conditions of increased iron availability from enhanced dust input.
Consequently, our study supports the idea of an invigorated biological pump in
this region during the last glacial period that could have contributed to glacial
carbon dioxide drawdown. Additionally, using evidence from silicon and nitrogen
isotope changes, we infer that, in contrast to the modern situation, the
biological productivity in this region is not constrained by the availability of 
iron, silicon and nitrogen during the glacial period. We hypothesize that an
invigorated biological carbon dioxide pump constrained perhaps only by phosphorus
limitation was a more common occurrence in low-latitude areas of the glacial
ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08101 
PMID: 19553996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1110-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08115.

High-speed tracking of rupture and clustering in freely falling granular streams.

Royer JR(1), Evans DJ, Oyarte L, Guo Q, Kapit E, Möbius ME, Waitukaitis SR,
Jaeger HM.

Author information: 
(1)James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, The University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. jroyer@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1064-5.

Thin streams of liquid commonly break up into characteristic droplet patterns
owing to the surface-tension-driven Plateau-Rayleigh instability. Very similar
patterns are observed when initially uniform streams of dry granular material
break up into clusters of grains, even though flows of macroscopic particles are 
considered to lack surface tension. Recent studies on freely falling granular
streams tracked fluctuations in the stream profile, but the clustering mechanism 
remained unresolved because the full evolution of the instability could not be
observed. Here we demonstrate that the cluster formation is driven by minute,
nanoNewton cohesive forces that arise from a combination of van der Waals
interactions and capillary bridges between nanometre-scale surface asperities.
Our experiments involve high-speed video imaging of the granular stream in the
co-moving frame, control over the properties of the grain surfaces and the use of
atomic force microscopy to measure grain-grain interactions. The cohesive forces 
that we measure correspond to an equivalent surface tension five orders of
magnitude below that of ordinary liquids. We find that the shapes of these weakly
cohesive, non-thermal clusters of macroscopic particles closely resemble droplets
resulting from thermally induced rupture of liquid nanojets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08115 
PMID: 19553995 


455. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08120.

Optically controlled locking of the nuclear field via coherent dark-state
spectroscopy.

Xu X(1), Yao W, Sun B, Steel DG, Bracker AS, Gammon D, Sham LJ.

Author information: 
(1)The H. M. Randall Laboratory of Physics, The University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

A single electron or hole spin trapped inside a semiconductor quantum dot forms
the foundation for many proposed quantum logic devices. In group III-V materials,
the resonance and coherence between two ground states of the single spin are
inevitably affected by the lattice nuclear spins through the hyperfine
interaction, while the dynamics of the single spin also influence the nuclear
environment. Recent efforts have been made to protect the coherence of spins in
quantum dots by suppressing the nuclear spin fluctuations. However, coherent
control of a single spin in a single dot with simultaneous suppression of the
nuclear fluctuations has yet to be achieved. Here we report the suppression of
nuclear field fluctuations in a singly charged quantum dot to well below the
thermal value, as shown by an enhancement of the single electron spin dephasing
time T(2)*, which we measure using coherent dark-state spectroscopy. The
suppression of nuclear fluctuations is found to result from a hole-spin assisted 
dynamic nuclear spin polarization feedback process, where the stable value of the
nuclear field is determined only by the laser frequencies at fixed laser powers. 
This nuclear field locking is further demonstrated in a three-laser measurement, 
indicating a possible enhancement of the electron spin T(2)* by a factor of
several hundred. This is a simple and powerful method of enhancing the electron
spin coherence time without use of 'spin echo'-type techniques. We expect that
our results will enable the reproducible preparation of the nuclear spin
environment for repetitive control and measurement of a single spin with minimal 
statistical broadening.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08120 
PMID: 19553994 


456. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1102-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08070.

No sodium in the vapour plumes of Enceladus.

Schneider NM(1), Burger MH, Schaller EL, Brown ME, Johnson RE, Kargel JS,
Dougherty MK, Achilleos NA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Atmospheric & Space Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado 80309, USA. nick.schneider@lasp.colorado.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1067-8.

The discovery of water vapour and ice particles erupting from Saturn's moon
Enceladus fuelled speculation that an internal ocean was the source.
Alternatively, the source might be ice warmed, melted or crushed by tectonic
motions. Sodium chloride (that is, salt) is expected to be present in a
long-lived ocean in contact with a rocky core. Here we report a ground-based
spectroscopic search for atomic sodium near Enceladus that places an upper limit 
on the mixing ratio in the vapour plumes orders of magnitude below the expected
ocean salinity. The low sodium content of escaping vapour, together with the
small fraction of salt-bearing particles, argues against a situation in which a
near-surface geyser is fuelled by a salty ocean through cracks in the crust. The 
lack of observable sodium in the vapour is consistent with a wide variety of
alternative eruption sources, including a deep ocean, a freshwater reservoir, or 
ice. The existing data may be insufficient to distinguish between these
hypotheses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08070 
PMID: 19553993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1098-101. doi: 10.1038/nature08046.

Sodium salts in E-ring ice grains from an ocean below the surface of Enceladus.

Postberg F(1), Kempf S, Schmidt J, Brilliantov N, Beinsen A, Abel B, Buck U,
Srama R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Geowissenschaften, Universität Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg,
Germany. frank.postberg@mpi-hd.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1067-8.

Saturn's moon Enceladus emits plumes of water vapour and ice particles from
fractures near its south pole, suggesting the possibility of a subsurface ocean. 
These plume particles are the dominant source of Saturn's E ring. A previous in
situ analysis of these particles concluded that the minor organic or siliceous
components, identified in many ice grains, could be evidence for interaction
between Enceladus' rocky core and liquid water. It was not clear, however,
whether the liquid is still present today or whether it has frozen. Here we
report the identification of a population of E-ring grains that are rich in
sodium salts ( approximately 0.5-2% by mass), which can arise only if the plumes 
originate from liquid water. The abundance of various salt components in these
particles, as well as the inferred basic pH, exhibit a compelling similarity to
the predicted composition of a subsurface Enceladus ocean in contact with its
rock core. The plume vapour is expected to be free of atomic sodium. Thus, the
absence of sodium from optical spectra is in good agreement with our results. In 
the E ring the upper limit for spectroscopy is insufficiently sensitive to detect
the concentrations we found.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08046 
PMID: 19553992 


458. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1085-90. doi: 10.1038/nature08109.

GOLPH3 modulates mTOR signalling and rapamycin sensitivity in cancer.

Scott KL(1), Kabbarah O, Liang MC, Ivanova E, Anagnostou V, Wu J, Dhakal S, Wu M,
Chen S, Feinberg T, Huang J, Saci A, Widlund HR, Fisher DE, Xiao Y, Rimm DL,
Protopopov A, Wong KK, Chin L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.

Genome-wide copy number analyses of human cancers identified a frequent 5p13
amplification in several solid tumour types, including lung (56%), ovarian (38%),
breast (32%), prostate (37%) and melanoma (32%). Here, using integrative analysis
of a genomic profile of the region, we identify a Golgi protein, GOLPH3, as a
candidate targeted for amplification. Gain- and loss-of-function studies in vitro
and in vivo validated GOLPH3 as a potent oncogene. Physically, GOLPH3 localizes
to the trans-Golgi network and interacts with components of the retromer complex,
which in yeast has been linked to target of rapamycin (TOR) signalling.
Mechanistically, GOLPH3 regulates cell size, enhances growth-factor-induced mTOR 
(also known as FRAP1) signalling in human cancer cells, and alters the response
to an mTOR inhibitor in vivo. Thus, genomic and genetic, biological, functional
and biochemical data in yeast and humans establishes GOLPH3 as a new oncogene
that is commonly targeted for amplification in human cancer, and is capable of
modulating the response to rapamycin, a cancer drug in clinical use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08109 
PMCID: PMC2753613
PMID: 19553991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1071-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08122.

Recent advances and emerging trends in plant hormone signalling.

Santner A(1), Estelle M.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Kinetics Inc., 6201 La Pas Trail, Suite 160, Indianapolis, Indiana
46268, USA.

Plant growth and development is regulated by a structurally unrelated collection 
of small molecules called plant hormones. During the last 15 years the number of 
known plant hormones has grown from five to at least ten. Furthermore, many of
the proteins involved in plant hormone signalling pathways have been identified, 
including receptors for many of the major hormones. Strikingly, the
ubiquitin-proteasome pathway plays a central part in most hormone-signalling
pathways. In addition, recent studies confirm that hormone signalling is
integrated at several levels during plant growth and development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08122 
PMID: 19553990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1122-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08182.

Origins and evolutionary genomics of the 2009 swine-origin H1N1 influenza A
epidemic.

Smith GJ(1), Vijaykrishna D, Bahl J, Lycett SJ, Worobey M, Pybus OG, Ma SK,
Cheung CL, Raghwani J, Bhatt S, Peiris JS, Guan Y, Rambaut A.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases & Department of
Microbiology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 21
Sassoon Road, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, China.

In March and early April 2009, a new swine-origin influenza A (H1N1) virus
(S-OIV) emerged in Mexico and the United States. During the first few weeks of
surveillance, the virus spread worldwide to 30 countries (as of May 11) by
human-to-human transmission, causing the World Health Organization to raise its
pandemic alert to level 5 of 6. This virus has the potential to develop into the 
first influenza pandemic of the twenty-first century. Here we use evolutionary
analysis to estimate the timescale of the origins and the early development of
the S-OIV epidemic. We show that it was derived from several viruses circulating 
in swine, and that the initial transmission to humans occurred several months
before recognition of the outbreak. A phylogenetic estimate of the gaps in
genetic surveillance indicates a long period of unsampled ancestry before the
S-OIV outbreak, suggesting that the reassortment of swine lineages may have
occurred years before emergence in humans, and that the multiple genetic ancestry
of S-OIV is not indicative of an artificial origin. Furthermore, the unsampled
history of the epidemic means that the nature and location of the genetically
closest swine viruses reveal little about the immediate origin of the epidemic,
despite the fact that we included a panel of closely related and previously
unpublished swine influenza isolates. Our results highlight the need for
systematic surveillance of influenza in swine, and provide evidence that the
mixing of new genetic elements in swine can result in the emergence of viruses
with pandemic potential in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08182 
PMID: 19516283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1079-84. doi: 10.1038/nature08106. Epub 2009 Jun 7.

A soma-to-germline transformation in long-lived Caenorhabditis elegans mutants.

Curran SP(1), Wu X, Riedel CG, Ruvkun G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Unlike the soma, which ages during the lifespan of multicellular organisms, the
germ line traces an essentially immortal lineage. Genomic instability in somatic 
cells increases with age, and this decline in somatic maintenance might be
regulated to facilitate resource reallocation towards reproduction at the expense
of cellular senescence. Here we show that Caenorhabditis elegans mutants with
increased longevity exhibit a soma-to-germline transformation of gene expression 
programs normally limited to the germ line. Decreased insulin-like signalling
causes the somatic misexpression of the germline-limited pie-1 and pgl family of 
genes in intestinal and ectodermal tissues. The forkhead boxO1A (FOXO)
transcription factor DAF-16, the major transcriptional effector of insulin-like
signalling, regulates pie-1 expression by directly binding to the pie-1 promoter.
The somatic tissues of insulin-like mutants are more germline-like and protected 
from genotoxic stress. Gene inactivation of components of the cytosolic
chaperonin complex that induce increased longevity also causes somatic
misexpression of PGL-1. These results indicate that the acquisition of germline
characteristics by the somatic cells of C. elegans mutants with increased
longevity contributes to their increased health and survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08106 
PMCID: PMC2716045
PMID: 19506556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1136-40. doi: 10.1038/nature08066. Epub 2009 Jun 7.

Subcellular homeostasis of phytohormone auxin is mediated by the ER-localized
PIN5 transporter.

Mravec J(1), Skůpa P, Bailly A, Hoyerová K, Krecek P, Bielach A, Petrásek J,
Zhang J, Gaykova V, Stierhof YD, Dobrev PI, Schwarzerová K, Rolcík J, Seifertová 
D, Luschnig C, Benková E, Zazímalová E, Geisler M, Friml J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB and Department of Plant Biotechnology
and Genetics, Ghent University, 9052 Gent, Belgium.

The plant signalling molecule auxin provides positional information in a variety 
of developmental processes by means of its differential distribution (gradients) 
within plant tissues. Thus, cellular auxin levels often determine the
developmental output of auxin signalling. Conceptually, transmembrane transport
and metabolic processes regulate the steady-state levels of auxin in any given
cell. In particular, PIN auxin-efflux-carrier-mediated, directional transport
between cells is crucial for generating auxin gradients. Here we show that
Arabidopsis thaliana PIN5, an atypical member of the PIN gene family, encodes a
functional auxin transporter that is required for auxin-mediated development.
PIN5 does not have a direct role in cell-to-cell transport but regulates
intracellular auxin homeostasis and metabolism. PIN5 localizes, unlike other
characterized plasma membrane PIN proteins, to endoplasmic reticulum (ER),
presumably mediating auxin flow from the cytosol to the lumen of the ER. The ER
localization of other PIN5-like transporters (including the moss PIN) indicates
that the diversification of PIN protein functions in mediating auxin homeostasis 
at the ER, and cell-to-cell auxin transport at the plasma membrane, represent an 
ancient event during the evolution of land plants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08066 
PMID: 19506555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1146-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08075. Epub 2009 May 27.

Structural insight into the autoinhibition mechanism of AMP-activated protein
kinase.

Chen L(1), Jiao ZH, Zheng LS, Zhang YY, Xie ST, Wang ZX, Wu JW.

Author information: 
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Department of Biological Sciences and
Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

The AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is characterized by its ability to bind
to AMP, which enables it to adjust enzymatic activity by sensing the cellular
energy status and maintain the balance between ATP production and consumption in 
eukaryotic cells. It also has important roles in the regulation of cell growth
and proliferation, and in the establishment and maintenance of cell polarity.
These important functions have rendered AMPK an important drug target for
obesity, type 2 diabetes and cancer treatments. However, the regulatory mechanism
of AMPK activity by AMP binding remains unsolved. Here we report the crystal
structures of an unphosphorylated fragment of the AMPK alpha-subunit (KD-AID)
from Schizosaccharomyces pombe that contains both the catalytic kinase domain and
an autoinhibitory domain (AID), and of a phosphorylated kinase domain from
Saccharomyces cerevisiae (Snf1-pKD). The AID binds, from the 'backside', to the
hinge region of its kinase domain, forming contacts with both amino-terminal and 
carboxy-terminal lobes. Structural analyses indicate that AID binding might
constrain the mobility of helix alphaC, hence resulting in an autoinhibited
KD-AID with much lower kinase activity than that of the kinase domain alone. AMP 
activates AMPK both allosterically and by inhibiting dephosphorylation. Further
in vitro kinetic studies demonstrate that disruption of the KD-AID interface
reverses the autoinhibition and these AMPK heterotrimeric mutants no longer
respond to the change in AMP concentration. The structural and biochemical data
have shown the primary mechanism of AMPK autoinhibition and suggest a
conformational switch model for AMPK activation by AMP.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08075 
PMID: 19474788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1126-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08062. Epub 2009 May
20.

Down's syndrome suppression of tumour growth and the role of the calcineurin
inhibitor DSCR1.

Baek KH(1), Zaslavsky A, Lynch RC, Britt C, Okada Y, Siarey RJ, Lensch MW, Park
IH, Yoon SS, Minami T, Korenberg JR, Folkman J, Daley GQ, Aird WC, Galdzicki Z,
Ryeom S.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology Program, Department of Surgery, Children's Hospital Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2010 Jul;78(1):35-7.

The incidence of many cancer types is significantly reduced in individuals with
Down's syndrome, and it is thought that this broad cancer protection is conferred
by the increased expression of one or more of the 231 supernumerary genes on the 
extra copy of chromosome 21. One such gene is Down's syndrome candidate region-1 
(DSCR1, also known as RCAN1), which encodes a protein that suppresses vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-mediated angiogenic signalling by the
calcineurin pathway. Here we show that DSCR1 is increased in Down's syndrome
tissues and in a mouse model of Down's syndrome. Furthermore, we show that the
modest increase in expression afforded by a single extra transgenic copy of Dscr1
is sufficient to confer significant suppression of tumour growth in mice, and
that such resistance is a consequence of a deficit in tumour angiogenesis arising
from suppression of the calcineurin pathway. We also provide evidence that
attenuation of calcineurin activity by DSCR1, together with another chromosome 21
gene Dyrk1a, may be sufficient to markedly diminish angiogenesis. These data
provide a mechanism for the reduced cancer incidence in Down's syndrome and
identify the calcineurin signalling pathway, and its regulators DSCR1 and DYRK1A,
as potential therapeutic targets in cancers arising in all individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08062 
PMCID: PMC2724004
PMID: 19458618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1091-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08107. Epub 2009 May 20.

Reconstitution of Rab- and SNARE-dependent membrane fusion by synthetic
endosomes.

Ohya T(1), Miaczynska M, Coskun U, Lommer B, Runge A, Drechsel D, Kalaidzidis Y, 
Zerial M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics,
Pfotenhauerstrasse 108, 01309, Dresden, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1065-6.

Rab GTPases and SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment
protein receptors) are evolutionarily conserved essential components of the
eukaryotic intracellular transport system. Although pairing of cognate SNAREs is 
sufficient to fuse membranes in vitro, a complete reconstitution of the Rab-SNARE
machinery has never been achieved. Here we report the reconstitution of the early
endosomal canine Rab5 GTPase, its key regulators and effectors together with
SNAREs into proteoliposomes using a set of 17 recombinant human proteins. These
vesicles behave like minimal 'synthetic' endosomes, fusing with purified early
endosomes or with each other in vitro. Membrane fusion measured by content-mixing
and morphological assays requires the cooperativity between Rab5 effectors and
cognate SNAREs which, together, form a more efficient 'core machinery' than
SNAREs alone. In reconstituting a fusion mechanism dependent on both a Rab GTPase
and SNAREs, our work shows that the two machineries act coordinately to increase 
the specificity and efficiency of the membrane tethering and fusion process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08107 
PMID: 19458617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1150-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08033. Epub 2009 May 17.

dUTP incorporation into genomic DNA is linked to transcription in yeast.

Kim N(1), Jinks-Robertson S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Highly activated transcription is associated with eukaryotic genome instability, 
resulting in increased rates of mitotic recombination and mutagenesis. The
association between high transcription and genome stability is probably due to a 
variety of factors including an enhanced accumulation of DNA damage,
transcription-associated supercoiling, collision between replication forks and
the transcription machinery, and the persistence of RNA-DNA hybrids. In the case 
of transcription-associated mutagenesis, we previously showed that there is a
direct proportionality between the level of transcription and the mutation rate
in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and that the molecular nature of the
mutations is affected by highly activated transcription. Here we show that the
accumulation of apurinic/apyrimidinic sites is greatly enhanced in highly
transcribed yeast DNA. We further demonstrate that most apurinic/apyrimidinic
sites in highly transcribed DNA are derived from the removal of uracil, the
presence of which is linked to direct incorporation of dUTP in place of dTTP.
These results show an unexpected relationship between transcription and the
fidelity of DNA synthesis, and raise intriguing cell biological issues with
regard to nucleotide pool compartmentalization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08033 
PMCID: PMC2730915
PMID: 19448611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1131-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08073. Epub 2009 May 13.

Biomechanical forces promote embryonic haematopoiesis.

Adamo L(1), Naveiras O, Wenzel PL, McKinney-Freeman S, Mack PJ, Gracia-Sancho J, 
Suchy-Dicey A, Yoshimoto M, Lensch MW, Yoder MC, García-Cardeña G, Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Excellence in Vascular Biology, Department of Pathology, Brigham
and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 25;459(7250):1068-9.

Biomechanical forces are emerging as critical regulators of embryogenesis,
particularly in the developing cardiovascular system. After initiation of the
heartbeat in vertebrates, cells lining the ventral aspect of the dorsal aorta,
the placental vessels, and the umbilical and vitelline arteries initiate
expression of the transcription factor Runx1 (refs 3-5), a master regulator of
haematopoiesis, and give rise to haematopoietic cells. It remains unknown whether
the biomechanical forces imposed on the vascular wall at this developmental stage
act as a determinant of haematopoietic potential. Here, using mouse embryonic
stem cells differentiated in vitro, we show that fluid shear stress increases the
expression of Runx1 in CD41(+)c-Kit(+) haematopoietic progenitor cells,
concomitantly augmenting their haematopoietic colony-forming potential. Moreover,
we find that shear stress increases haematopoietic colony-forming potential and
expression of haematopoietic markers in the para-aortic
splanchnopleura/aorta-gonads-mesonephros of mouse embryos and that abrogation of 
nitric oxide, a mediator of shear-stress-induced signalling, compromises
haematopoietic potential in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, these data reveal a 
critical role for biomechanical forces in haematopoietic development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08073 
PMCID: PMC2782763
PMID: 19440194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):1015-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07966.

Structure and mechanism of a bacterial light-regulated cyclic nucleotide
phosphodiesterase.

Barends TR(1), Hartmann E, Griese JJ, Beitlich T, Kirienko NV, Ryjenkov DA,
Reinstein J, Shoeman RL, Gomelsky M, Schlichting I.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Medical Research, Department of Biomolecular
Mechanisms, Jahnstrasse 29, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

The ability to respond to light is crucial for most organisms. BLUF is a recently
identified photoreceptor protein domain that senses blue light using a FAD
chromophore. BLUF domains are present in various proteins from the Bacteria,
Euglenozoa and Fungi. Although structures of single-domain BLUF proteins have
been determined, none are available for a BLUF protein containing a functional
output domain; the mechanism of light activation in this new class of
photoreceptors has thus remained poorly understood. Here we report the
biochemical, structural and mechanistic characterization of a full-length, active
photoreceptor, BlrP1 (also known as KPN_01598), from Klebsiella pneumoniae. BlrP1
consists of a BLUF sensor domain and a phosphodiesterase EAL output domain which 
hydrolyses cyclic dimeric GMP (c-di-GMP). This ubiquitous second messenger
controls motility, biofilm formation, virulence and antibiotic resistance in the 
Bacteria. Crystal structures of BlrP1 complexed with its substrate and metal ions
involved in catalysis or in enzyme inhibition provide a detailed understanding of
the mechanism of the EAL-domain c-di-GMP phosphodiesterases. These structures
also sketch out a path of light activation of the phosphodiesterase output
activity. Photon absorption by the BLUF domain of one subunit of the antiparallel
BlrP1 homodimer activates the EAL domain of the second subunit through allosteric
communication transmitted through conserved domain-domain interfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07966 
PMID: 19536266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):1000-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08020.

CCR7 signalling as an essential regulator of CNS infiltration in T-cell
leukaemia.

Buonamici S(1), Trimarchi T, Ruocco MG, Reavie L, Cathelin S, Mar BG, Klinakis A,
Lukyanov Y, Tseng JC, Sen F, Gehrie E, Li M, Newcomb E, Zavadil J, Meruelo D,
Lipp M, Ibrahim S, Efstratiadis A, Zagzag D, Bromberg JS, Dustin ML, Aifantis I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and New York University Cancer Institute, New York
10016, USA.

T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL) is a blood malignancy afflicting
mainly children and adolescents. T-ALL patients present at diagnosis with
increased white cell counts and hepatosplenomegaly, and are at an increased risk 
of central nervous system (CNS) relapse. For that reason, T-ALL patients usually 
receive cranial irradiation in addition to intensified intrathecal chemotherapy. 
The marked increase in survival is thought to be worth the considerable
side-effects associated with this therapy. Such complications include secondary
tumours, neurocognitive deficits, endocrine disorders and growth impairment.
Little is known about the mechanism of leukaemic cell infiltration of the CNS,
despite its clinical importance. Here we show, using T-ALL animal modelling and
gene-expression profiling, that the chemokine receptor CCR7 (ref. 5) is the
essential adhesion signal required for the targeting of leukaemic T-cells into
the CNS. Ccr7 gene expression is controlled by the activity of the T-ALL oncogene
Notch1 and is expressed in human tumours carrying Notch1-activating mutations.
Silencing of either CCR7 or its chemokine ligand CCL19 (ref. 6) in an animal
model of T-ALL specifically inhibits CNS infiltration. Furthermore, murine
CNS-targeting by human T-ALL cells depends on their ability to express CCR7.
These studies identify a single chemokine-receptor interaction as a CNS 'entry'
signal, and open the way for future pharmacological targeting. Targeted
inhibition of CNS involvement in T-ALL could potentially decrease the intensity
of CNS-targeted therapy, thus reducing its associated short- and long-term
complications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08020 
PMCID: PMC3750496
PMID: 19536265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):987-91. doi: 10.1038/nature08035.

Copy number variation at 1q21.1 associated with neuroblastoma.

Diskin SJ(1), Hou C, Glessner JT, Attiyeh EF, Laudenslager M, Bosse K, Cole K,
Mossé YP, Wood A, Lynch JE, Pecor K, Diamond M, Winter C, Wang K, Kim C, Geiger
EA, McGrady PW, Blakemore AI, London WB, Shaikh TH, Bradfield J, Grant SF, Li H, 
Devoto M, Rappaport ER, Hakonarson H, Maris JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology and Center for Childhood Cancer Research, Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, USA.

Common copy number variations (CNVs) represent a significant source of genetic
diversity, yet their influence on phenotypic variability, including disease
susceptibility, remains poorly understood. To address this problem in human
cancer, we performed a genome-wide association study of CNVs in the childhood
cancer neuroblastoma, a disease in which single nucleotide polymorphism
variations are known to influence susceptibility. We first genotyped 846
Caucasian neuroblastoma patients and 803 healthy Caucasian controls at
approximately 550,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms, and performed a CNV-based 
test for association. We then replicated significant observations in two
independent sample sets comprised of a total of 595 cases and 3,357 controls.
Here we describe the identification of a common CNV at chromosome 1q21.1
associated with neuroblastoma in the discovery set, which was confirmed in both
replication sets. This CNV was validated by quantitative polymerase chain
reaction, fluorescent in situ hybridization and analysis of matched tumour
specimens, and was shown to be heritable in an independent set of 713 cancer-free
parent-offspring trios. We identified a previously unknown transcript within the 
CNV that showed high sequence similarity to several neuroblastoma breakpoint
family (NBPF) genes and represents a new member of this gene family (NBPF23).
This transcript was preferentially expressed in fetal brain and fetal sympathetic
nervous tissues, and the expression level was strictly correlated with CNV state 
in neuroblastoma cells. These data demonstrate that inherited copy number
variation at 1q21.1 is associated with neuroblastoma and implicate a previously
unknown neuroblastoma breakpoint family gene in early tumorigenesis of this
childhood cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08035 
PMCID: PMC2755253
PMID: 19536264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):978-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08052.

Colorado Plateau magmatism and uplift by warming of heterogeneous lithosphere.

Roy M(1), Jordan TH, Pederson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131, USA. mroy@unm.edu

The forces that drove rock uplift of the low-relief, high-elevation, tectonically
stable Colorado Plateau are the subject of long-standing debate. While the
adjacent Basin and Range province and Rio Grande rift province underwent Cenozoic
shortening followed by extension, the plateau experienced approximately 2 km of
rock uplift without significant internal deformation. Here we propose that
warming of the thicker, more iron-depleted Colorado Plateau lithosphere over
35-40 Myr following mid-Cenozoic removal of the Farallon plate from beneath North
America is the primary mechanism driving rock uplift. In our model, conductive
re-equilibration not only explains the rock uplift of the plateau, but also
provides a robust geodynamic interpretation of observed contrasts between the
Colorado Plateau margins and the plateau interior. In particular, the model
matches the encroachment of Cenozoic magmatism from the margins towards the
plateau interior at rates of 3-6 km Myr(-1) and is consistent with lower seismic 
velocities and more negative Bouguer gravity at the margins than in the plateau
interior. We suggest that warming of heterogeneous lithosphere is a powerful
mechanism for driving epeirogenic rock uplift of the Colorado Plateau and may be 
of general importance in plate-interior settings.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08052 
PMID: 19536263 


472. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):974-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08051.

Creep cavitation can establish a dynamic granular fluid pump in ductile shear
zones.

Fusseis F(1), Regenauer-Lieb K, Liu J, Hough RM, De Carlo F.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth & Environment, The University of Western Australia, 35
Stirling Highway, Crawley, Western Australia 6009, Australia.
fusseis@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

The feedback between fluid migration and rock deformation in mid-crustal shear
zones is acknowledged as being critical for earthquake nucleation, the initiation
of subduction zones and the formation of mineral deposits. The importance of this
poorly understood feedback is further highlighted by evidence for
shear-zone-controlled advective flow of fluids in the ductile lower crust and the
recognition that deformation-induced grain-scale porosity is a key to large-scale
geodynamics. Fluid migration in the middle crust cannot be explained in terms of 
classical concepts. The environment is considered too hot for a dynamic
fracture-sustained permeability as in the upper crust, and fluid pathways are
generally too deformed to be controlled by equilibrium wetting angles that apply 
to hotter, deeper environments. Here we present evidence that mechanical and
chemical potentials control a syndeformational porosity generation in mid-crustal
shear zones. High-resolution synchrotron X-ray tomography and scanning electron
microscopy observations allow us to formulate a model for fluid migration in
shear zones where a permeable porosity is dynamically created by viscous
grain-boundary sliding, creep cavitation, dissolution and precipitation. We
propose that syndeformational fluid migration in our 'granular fluid pump' model 
is a self-sustained process controlled by the explicit role of the rate of
entropy production of the underlying irreversible mechanical and chemical
microprocesses. The model explains fluid transfer through the middle crust, where
strain localization in the creep regime is required for plate tectonics, the
formation of giant ore deposits, mantle degassing and earthquake nucleation. Our 
findings provide a key component for the understanding of creep instabilities in 
the middle crust.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08051 
PMID: 19536262 


473. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):969-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08069.

Increased seasonality through the Eocene to Oligocene transition in northern high
latitudes.

Eldrett JS(1), Greenwood DR, Harding IC, Huber M.

Author information: 
(1)Shell Exploration and Production UK Ltd, 1 Altens Farm Road, Nigg, Aberdeen,
AB12 3FY, UK. james.eldrett@shell.com

A profound global climate shift took place at the Eocene-Oligocene transition (
approximately 33.5 million years ago) when Cretaceous/early Palaeogene greenhouse
conditions gave way to icehouse conditions. During this interval, changes in the 
Earth's orbit and a long-term drop in atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations
resulted in both the growth of Antarctic ice sheets to approximately their modern
size and the appearance of Northern Hemisphere glacial ice. However,
palaeoclimatic studies of this interval are contradictory: although some analyses
indicate no major climatic changes, others imply cooler temperatures, increased
seasonality and/or aridity. Climatic conditions in high northern latitudes over
this interval are particularly poorly known. Here we present northern
high-latitude terrestrial climate estimates for the Eocene to Oligocene interval,
based on bioclimatic analysis of terrestrially derived spore and pollen
assemblages preserved in marine sediments from the Norwegian-Greenland Sea. Our
data indicate a cooling of approximately 5 degrees C in cold-month (winter) mean 
temperatures to 0-2 degrees C, and a concomitant increased seasonality before the
Oi-1 glaciation event. These data indicate that a cooling component is indeed
incorporated in the delta(18)O isotope shift across the Eocene-Oligocene
transition. However, the relatively warm summer temperatures at that time mean
that continental ice on East Greenland was probably restricted to alpine outlet
glaciers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08069 
PMID: 19536261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):965-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08088.

Peierls distortion as a route to high thermoelectric performance in
In(4)Se(3-delta) crystals.

Rhyee JS(1), Lee KH, Lee SM, Cho E, Kim SI, Lee E, Kwon YS, Shim JH, Kotliar G.

Author information: 
(1)Materials Research Laboratory, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology,
Yongin 446-712, Korea.

Thermoelectric energy harvesting-the transformation of waste heat into useful
electricity-is of great interest for energy sustainability. The main obstacle is 
the low thermoelectric efficiency of materials for converting heat to
electricity, quantified by the thermoelectric figure of merit, ZT. The best
available n-type materials for use in mid-temperature (500-900 K) thermoelectric 
generators have a relatively low ZT of 1 or less, and so there is much interest
in finding avenues for increasing this figure of merit. Here we report a binary
crystalline n-type material, In(4)Se(3-delta), which achieves the ZT value of
1.48 at 705 K-very high for a bulk material. Using high-resolution transmission
electron microscopy, electron diffraction, and first-principles calculations, we 
demonstrate that this material supports a charge density wave instability which
is responsible for the large anisotropy observed in the electric and thermal
transport. The high ZT value is the result of the high Seebeck coefficient and
the low thermal conductivity in the plane of the charge density wave. Our results
suggest a new direction in the search for high-performance thermoelectric
materials, exploiting intrinsic nanostructural bulk properties induced by charge 
density waves.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08088 
PMID: 19536260 


475. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):960-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08093.

Nanomechanical measurements of a superconducting qubit.

LaHaye MD(1), Suh J, Echternach PM, Schwab KC, Roukes ML.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Nanoscience Institute, Condensed Matter Physics, MS 114-36, California
91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):923-4.

The observation of the quantum states of motion of a macroscopic mechanical
structure remains an open challenge in quantum-state preparation and measurement.
One approach that has received extensive theoretical attention is the integration
of superconducting qubits as control and detection elements in
nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS). Here we report measurements of a NEMS
resonator coupled to a superconducting qubit, a Cooper-pair box. We demonstrate
that the coupling results in a dispersive shift of the nanomechanical frequency
that is the mechanical analogue of the 'single-atom index effect' experienced by 
electromagnetic resonators in cavity quantum electrodynamics. The large magnitude
of the dispersive interaction allows us to perform NEMS-based spectroscopy of the
superconducting qubit, and enables observation of Landau-Zener interference
effects-a demonstration of nanomechanical read-out of quantum interference.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08093 
PMID: 19536259 


476. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):957-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08108.

Strong tidal dissipation in Io and Jupiter from astrometric observations.

Lainey V(1), Arlot JE, Karatekin O, Van Hoolst T.

Author information: 
(1)IMCCE-Observatoire de Paris, UMR 8028 du CNRS, 77 Avenue Denfert-Rochereau,
75014 Paris, France. lainey@imcce.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):920-1.

Io is the volcanically most active body in the Solar System and has a large
surface heat flux. The geological activity is thought to be the result of tides
raised by Jupiter, but it is not known whether the current tidal heat production 
is sufficiently high to generate the observed surface heat flow. Io's tidal heat 
comes from the orbital energy of the Io-Jupiter system (resulting in orbital
acceleration), whereas dissipation of energy in Jupiter causes Io's orbital
motion to decelerate. Here we report a determination of the tidal dissipation in 
Io and Jupiter through its effect on the orbital motions of the Galilean moons.
Our results show that the rate of internal energy dissipation in Io (k(2)/Q =
0.015 +/- 0.003, where k(2) is the Love number and Q is the quality factor) is in
good agreement with the observed surface heat flow, and suggest that Io is close 
to thermal equilibrium. Dissipation in Jupiter (k(2)/Q = (1.102 +/- 0.203) x
10(-5)) is close to the upper bound of its average value expected from the
long-term evolution of the system, and dissipation in extrasolar planets may be
higher than presently assumed. The measured secular accelerations indicate that
Io is evolving inwards, towards Jupiter, and that the three innermost Galilean
moons (Io, Europa and Ganymede) are evolving out of the exact Laplace resonance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08108 
PMID: 19536258 


477. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):945-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08104.

A newly discovered protein export machine in malaria parasites.

de Koning-Ward TF(1), Gilson PR, Boddey JA, Rug M, Smith BJ, Papenfuss AT,
Sanders PR, Lundie RJ, Maier AG, Cowman AF, Crabb BS.

Author information: 
(1)The Walter & Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne 3052,
Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):918-9.

Several hundred malaria parasite proteins are exported beyond an encasing vacuole
and into the cytosol of the host erythrocyte, a process that is central to the
virulence and viability of the causative Plasmodium species. The trafficking
machinery responsible for this export is unknown. Here we identify in Plasmodium 
falciparum a translocon of exported proteins (PTEX), which is located in the
vacuole membrane. The PTEX complex is ATP-powered, and comprises heat shock
protein 101 (HSP101; a ClpA/B-like ATPase from the AAA+ superfamily, of a type
commonly associated with protein translocons), a novel protein termed PTEX150 and
a known parasite protein, exported protein 2 (EXP2). EXP2 is the potential
channel, as it is the membrane-associated component of the core PTEX complex. Two
other proteins, a new protein PTEX88 and thioredoxin 2 (TRX2), were also
identified as PTEX components. As a common portal for numerous crucial processes,
this translocon offers a new avenue for therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08104 
PMCID: PMC2725363
PMID: 19536257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):940-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08124.

A Jurassic ceratosaur from China helps clarify avian digital homologies.

Xu X(1), Clark JM, Mo J, Choiniere J, Forster CA, Erickson GM, Hone DW, Sullivan 
C, Eberth DA, Nesbitt S, Zhao Q, Hernandez R, Jia CK, Han FL, Guo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Beijing 100044,
China. xingxu@vip.sina.com

Theropods have traditionally been assumed to have lost manual digits from the
lateral side inward, which differs from the bilateral reduction pattern seen in
other tetrapod groups. This unusual reduction pattern is clearly present in basal
theropods, and has also been inferred in non-avian tetanurans based on
identification of their three digits as the medial ones of the hand (I-II-III).
This contradicts the many developmental studies indicating II-III-IV identities
for the three manual digits of the only extant tetanurans, the birds. Here we
report a new basal ceratosaur from the Oxfordian stage of the Jurassic period of 
China (156-161 million years ago), representing the first known Asian ceratosaur 
and the only known beaked, herbivorous Jurassic theropod. Most significantly,
this taxon possesses a strongly reduced manual digit I, documenting a complex
pattern of digital reduction within the Theropoda. Comparisons among theropod
hands show that the three manual digits of basal tetanurans are similar in many
metacarpal features to digits II-III-IV, but in phalangeal features to digits
I-II-III, of more basal theropods. Given II-III-IV identities in avians, the
simplest interpretation is that these identities were shared by all tetanurans.
The transition to tetanurans involved complex changes in the hand including a
shift in digit identities, with ceratosaurs displaying an intermediate condition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08124 
PMID: 19536256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):931-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08157.

Emergence and pandemic potential of swine-origin H1N1 influenza virus.

Neumann G(1), Noda T, Kawaoka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiological Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin 53711, USA.

Influenza viruses cause annual epidemics and occasional pandemics that have
claimed the lives of millions. The emergence of new strains will continue to pose
challenges to public health and the scientific communities. A prime example is
the recent emergence of swine-origin H1N1 viruses that have transmitted to and
spread among humans, resulting in outbreaks internationally. Efforts to control
these outbreaks and real-time monitoring of the evolution of this virus should
provide us with invaluable information to direct infectious disease control
programmes and to improve understanding of the factors that determine viral
pathogenicity and/or transmissibility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08157 
PMCID: PMC2873852
PMID: 19525932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):996-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08119. Epub 2009 Jun 3.

A tissue-scale gradient of hydrogen peroxide mediates rapid wound detection in
zebrafish.

Niethammer P(1), Grabher C, Look AT, Mitchison TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA. Philipp_Niethammer@hms.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):921-3.

Barrier structures (for example, epithelia around tissues and plasma membranes
around cells) are required for internal homeostasis and protection from
pathogens. Wound detection and healing represent a dormant morphogenetic program 
that can be rapidly executed to restore barrier integrity and tissue homeostasis.
In animals, initial steps include recruitment of leukocytes to the site of injury
across distances of hundreds of micrometres within minutes of wounding. The
spatial signals that direct this immediate tissue response are unknown. Owing to 
their fast diffusion and versatile biological activities, reactive oxygen
species, including hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), are interesting candidates for
wound-to-leukocyte signalling. Here we probe the role of H(2)O(2) during the
early events of wound responses in zebrafish larvae expressing a genetically
encoded H(2)O(2) sensor. This reporter revealed a sustained rise in H(2)O(2)
concentration at the wound margin, starting approximately 3 min after wounding
and peaking at approximately 20 min, which extended approximately 100-200 microm 
into the tail-fin epithelium as a decreasing concentration gradient. Using
pharmacological and genetic inhibition, we show that this gradient is created by 
dual oxidase (Duox), and that it is required for rapid recruitment of leukocytes 
to the wound. This is the first observation, to our knowledge, of a tissue-scale 
H(2)O(2) pattern, and the first evidence that H(2)O(2) signals to leukocytes in
tissues, in addition to its known antiseptic role.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08119 
PMCID: PMC2803098
PMID: 19494811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):992-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08027. Epub 2009 May 31.

Identification of the pollen self-incompatibility determinant in Papaver rhoeas.

Wheeler MJ(1), de Graaf BH, Hadjiosif N, Perry RM, Poulter NS, Osman K, Vatovec
S, Harper A, Franklin FC, Franklin-Tong VE.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15
2TT, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 Mar 3;531(7592):126.

Higher plants produce seed through pollination, using specific interactions
between pollen and pistil. Self-incompatibility is an important mechanism used in
many species to prevent inbreeding; it is controlled by a multi-allelic S locus. 
'Self' (incompatible) pollen is discriminated from 'non-self' (compatible) pollen
by interaction of pollen and pistil S locus components, and is subsequently
inhibited. In Papaver rhoeas, the pistil S locus product is a small protein that 
interacts with incompatible pollen, triggering a Ca(2+)-dependent signalling
network, resulting in pollen inhibition and programmed cell death. Here we have
cloned three alleles of a highly polymorphic pollen-expressed gene, PrpS (Papaver
rhoeas pollen S), from Papaver and provide evidence that this encodes the pollen 
S locus determinant. PrpS is a single-copy gene linked to the pistil S gene
(currently called S, but referred to hereafter as PrsS for Papaver rhoeas stigma 
S determinant). Sequence analysis indicates that PrsS and PrpS are equally
ancient and probably co-evolved. PrpS encodes a novel approximately 20-kDa
protein. Consistent with predictions that it is a transmembrane protein, PrpS is 
associated with the plasma membrane. We show that a predicted extracellular loop 
segment of PrpS interacts with PrsS and, using PrpS antisense oligonucleotides,
we demonstrate that PrpS is involved in S-specific inhibition of incompatible
pollen. Identification of PrpS represents a major advance in our understanding of
the Papaver self-incompatibility system. As a novel cell-cell recognition
determinant it contributes to the available information concerning the origins
and evolution of cell-cell recognition systems involved in discrimination between
self and non-self, which also include histocompatibility systems in primitive
chordates and vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08027 
PMCID: PMC2699350
PMID: 19483678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):983-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08071. Epub 2009 May 27.

Adaptation and the evolution of parasite virulence in a connected world.

Wild G(1), Gardner A, West SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada. gwild@uwo.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Feb 18;463(7283):E8-9; discussion E9-10.

Adaptation is conventionally regarded as occurring at the level of the individual
organism, where it functions to maximize the individual's inclusive fitness.
However, it has recently been argued that empirical studies on the evolution of
parasite virulence in spatial populations show otherwise. In particular, it has
been claimed that the evolution of lower virulence in response to limited
parasite dispersal provides proof of Wynne-Edwards's idea of adaptation at the
group level. Although previous theoretical work has shown that limited dispersal 
can favour lower virulence, it has not clarified why, with five different
suggestions having been given. Here we show that the effect of dispersal on
parasite virulence can be understood entirely within the framework of inclusive
fitness theory. Limited parasite dispersal favours lower parasite growth rates
and, hence, reduced virulence because it (1) decreases the direct benefit of
producing offspring (dispersers are worth more than non-dispersers, because they 
can go to patches with no or fewer parasites), and (2) increases the competition 
for hosts experienced by both the focal individual ('self-shading') and their
relatives ('kin shading'). This demonstrates that reduced virulence can be
understood as an individual-level adaptation by the parasite to maximize its
inclusive fitness, and clarifies the links with virulence theory more generally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08071 
PMID: 19474791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):1010-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08025. Epub 2009 May 20.

The RNA-binding protein KSRP promotes the biogenesis of a subset of microRNAs.

Trabucchi M(1), Briata P, Garcia-Mayoral M, Haase AD, Filipowicz W, Ramos A,
Gherzi R, Rosenfeld MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department and School of Medicine, University
of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, Room 345, La Jolla, California
92093-0648, USA.

Consistent with the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in down-regulating gene expression
by reducing the translation and/or stability of target messenger RNAs, the levels
of specific miRNAs are important for correct embryonic development and have been 
linked to several forms of cancer. However, the regulatory mechanisms by which
primary miRNAs (pri-miRNAs) are processed first to precursor miRNAs (pre-miRNAs) 
and then to mature miRNAs by the multiprotein Drosha and Dicer complexes,
respectively, remain largely unknown. The KH-type splicing regulatory protein
(KSRP, also known as KHSRP) interacts with single-strand
AU-rich-element-containing mRNAs and is a key mediator of mRNA decay. Here we
show in mammalian cells that KSRP also serves as a component of both Drosha and
Dicer complexes and regulates the biogenesis of a subset of miRNAs. KSRP binds
with high affinity to the terminal loop of the target miRNA precursors and
promotes their maturation. This mechanism is required for specific changes in
target mRNA expression that affect specific biological programs, including
proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation. These findings reveal an unexpected
mechanism that links KSRP to the machinery regulating maturation of a cohort of
miRNAs that, in addition to its role in promoting mRNA decay, independently
serves to integrate specific regulatory programs of protein expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08025 
PMCID: PMC2768332
PMID: 19458619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):950-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08080. Epub 2009 May 17.

The Listeria transcriptional landscape from saprophytism to virulence.

Toledo-Arana A(1), Dussurget O, Nikitas G, Sesto N, Guet-Revillet H, Balestrino
D, Loh E, Gripenland J, Tiensuu T, Vaitkevicius K, Barthelemy M, Vergassola M,
Nahori MA, Soubigou G, Régnault B, Coppée JY, Lecuit M, Johansson J, Cossart P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité des Interactions Bactéries-Cellules, F-75015 Paris,
France.

Comment in
    Future Microbiol. 2009 Sep;4(7):779-82.

The bacterium Listeria monocytogenes is ubiquitous in the environment and can
lead to severe food-borne infections. It has recently emerged as a multifaceted
model in pathogenesis. However, how this bacterium switches from a saprophyte to 
a pathogen is largely unknown. Here, using tiling arrays and RNAs from wild-type 
and mutant bacteria grown in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo, we have analysed the
transcription of its entire genome. We provide the complete Listeria operon map
and have uncovered far more diverse types of RNAs than expected: in addition to
50 small RNAs (<500 nucleotides), at least two of which are involved in virulence
in mice, we have identified antisense RNAs covering several open-reading frames
and long overlapping 5' and 3' untranslated regions. We discovered that
riboswitches can act as terminators for upstream genes. When Listeria reaches the
host intestinal lumen, an extensive transcriptional reshaping occurs with a
SigB-mediated activation of virulence genes. In contrast, in the blood, PrfA
controls transcription of virulence genes. Remarkably, several non-coding RNAs
absent in the non-pathogenic species Listeria innocua exhibit the same expression
patterns as the virulence genes. Together, our data unravel successive and
coordinated global transcriptional changes during infection and point to
previously unknown regulatory mechanisms in bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08080 
PMID: 19448609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):1005-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08021. Epub 2009 May 6.

Genes that mediate breast cancer metastasis to the brain.

Bos PD(1), Zhang XH, Nadal C, Shu W, Gomis RR, Nguyen DX, Minn AJ, van de Vijver 
MJ, Gerald WL, Foekens JA, Massagué J.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10021, USA.

The molecular basis for breast cancer metastasis to the brain is largely unknown.
Brain relapse typically occurs years after the removal of a breast tumour,
suggesting that disseminated cancer cells must acquire specialized functions to
take over this organ. Here we show that breast cancer metastasis to the brain
involves mediators of extravasation through non-fenestrated capillaries,
complemented by specific enhancers of blood-brain barrier crossing and brain
colonization. We isolated cells that preferentially infiltrate the brain from
patients with advanced disease. Gene expression analysis of these cells and of
clinical samples, coupled with functional analysis, identified the cyclooxygenase
COX2 (also known as PTGS2), the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) ligand
HBEGF, and the alpha2,6-sialyltransferase ST6GALNAC5 as mediators of cancer cell 
passage through the blood-brain barrier. EGFR ligands and COX2 were previously
linked to breast cancer infiltration of the lungs, but not the bones or liver,
suggesting a sharing of these mediators in cerebral and pulmonary metastases. In 
contrast, ST6GALNAC5 specifically mediates brain metastasis. Normally restricted 
to the brain, the expression of ST6GALNAC5 in breast cancer cells enhances their 
adhesion to brain endothelial cells and their passage through the blood-brain
barrier. This co-option of a brain sialyltransferase highlights the role of
cell-surface glycosylation in organ-specific metastatic interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08021 
PMCID: PMC2698953
PMID: 19421193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):871-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07972.

An unusual carbon-carbon bond cleavage reaction during phosphinothricin
biosynthesis.

Cicchillo RM(1), Zhang H, Blodgett JA, Whitteck JT, Li G, Nair SK, van der Donk
WA, Metcalf WW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA.

Natural products containing phosphorus-carbon bonds have found widespread use in 
medicine and agriculture. One such compound, phosphinothricin tripeptide,
contains the unusual amino acid phosphinothricin attached to two alanine
residues. Synthetic phosphinothricin (glufosinate) is a component of two
top-selling herbicides (Basta and Liberty), and is widely used with resistant
transgenic crops including corn, cotton and canola. Recent genetic and
biochemical studies showed that during phosphinothricin tripeptide biosynthesis
2-hydroxyethylphosphonate (HEP) is converted to hydroxymethylphosphonate (HMP).
Here we report the in vitro reconstitution of this unprecedented
C(sp(3))-C(sp(3)) bond cleavage reaction and X-ray crystal structures of the
enzyme. The protein is a mononuclear non-haem iron(ii)-dependent dioxygenase that
converts HEP to HMP and formate. In contrast to most other members of this
family, the oxidative consumption of HEP does not require additional cofactors or
the input of exogenous electrons. The current study expands the scope of
reactions catalysed by the 2-His-1-carboxylate mononuclear non-haem iron family
of enzymes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07972 
PMCID: PMC2874955
PMID: 19516340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):833-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08042.

Slow earthquakes triggered by typhoons.

Liu C(1), Linde AT, Sacks IS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Earth Sciences, Academica Sinica, 128 Sinica Road, Sec. 2,
Nankang, Taipei 115, Taiwan, China. liucc@sinica.edu.tw

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 9;460(7252):292.

The first reports on a slow earthquake were for an event in the Izu peninsula,
Japan, on an intraplate, seismically active fault. Since then, many slow
earthquakes have been detected. It has been suggested that the slow events may
trigger ordinary earthquakes (in a context supported by numerical modelling), but
their broader significance in terms of earthquake occurrence remains unclear.
Triggering of earthquakes has received much attention: strain diffusion from
large regional earthquakes has been shown to influence large earthquake activity,
and earthquakes may be triggered during the passage of teleseismic waves, a
phenomenon now recognized as being common. Here we show that, in eastern Taiwan, 
slow earthquakes can be triggered by typhoons. We model the largest of these
earthquakes as repeated episodes of slow slip on a reverse fault just under land 
and dipping to the west; the characteristics of all events are sufficiently
similar that they can be modelled with minor variations of the model parameters. 
Lower pressure results in a very small unclamping of the fault that must be close
to the failure condition for the typhoon to act as a trigger. This area
experiences very high compressional deformation but has a paucity of large
earthquakes; repeating slow events may be segmenting the stressed area and thus
inhibiting large earthquakes, which require a long, continuous seismic rupture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08042 
PMID: 19516339 


488. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):829-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08047.

The proportionality of global warming to cumulative carbon emissions.

Matthews HD(1), Gillett NP, Stott PA, Zickfeld K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography, Planning and Environment, Concordia University, 1455 
de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, H3G 1M8, Canada.
dmatthew@alcor.concordia.ca

The global temperature response to increasing atmospheric CO(2) is often
quantified by metrics such as equilibrium climate sensitivity and transient
climate response. These approaches, however, do not account for carbon cycle
feedbacks and therefore do not fully represent the net response of the Earth
system to anthropogenic CO(2) emissions. Climate-carbon modelling experiments
have shown that: (1) the warming per unit CO(2) emitted does not depend on the
background CO(2) concentration; (2) the total allowable emissions for climate
stabilization do not depend on the timing of those emissions; and (3) the
temperature response to a pulse of CO(2) is approximately constant on timescales 
of decades to centuries. Here we generalize these results and show that the
carbon-climate response (CCR), defined as the ratio of temperature change to
cumulative carbon emissions, is approximately independent of both the atmospheric
CO(2) concentration and its rate of change on these timescales. From
observational constraints, we estimate CCR to be in the range 1.0-2.1 degrees C
per trillion tonnes of carbon (Tt C) emitted (5th to 95th percentiles),
consistent with twenty-first-century CCR values simulated by climate-carbon
models. Uncertainty in land-use CO(2) emissions and aerosol forcing, however,
means that higher observationally constrained values cannot be excluded. The CCR,
when evaluated from climate-carbon models under idealized conditions, represents 
a simple yet robust metric for comparing models, which aggregates both climate
feedbacks and carbon cycle feedbacks. CCR is also likely to be a useful concept
for climate change mitigation and policy; by combining the uncertainties
associated with climate sensitivity, carbon sinks and climate-carbon feedbacks
into a single quantity, the CCR allows CO(2)-induced global mean temperature
change to be inferred directly from cumulative carbon emissions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08047 
PMID: 19516338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):820-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08105.

Direct observation of a widely tunable bandgap in bilayer graphene.

Zhang Y(1), Tang TT, Girit C, Hao Z, Martin MC, Zettl A, Crommie MF, Shen YR,
Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California at Berkeley, USA.

The electronic bandgap is an intrinsic property of semiconductors and insulators 
that largely determines their transport and optical properties. As such, it has a
central role in modern device physics and technology and governs the operation of
semiconductor devices such as p-n junctions, transistors, photodiodes and lasers.
A tunable bandgap would be highly desirable because it would allow great
flexibility in design and optimization of such devices, in particular if it could
be tuned by applying a variable external electric field. However, in conventional
materials, the bandgap is fixed by their crystalline structure, preventing such
bandgap control. Here we demonstrate the realization of a widely tunable
electronic bandgap in electrically gated bilayer graphene. Using a dual-gate
bilayer graphene field-effect transistor (FET) and infrared microspectroscopy, we
demonstrate a gate-controlled, continuously tunable bandgap of up to 250 meV. Our
technique avoids uncontrolled chemical doping and provides direct evidence of a
widely tunable bandgap-spanning a spectral range from zero to mid-infrared-that
has eluded previous attempts. Combined with the remarkable electrical transport
properties of such systems, this electrostatic bandgap control suggests novel
nanoelectronic and nanophotonic device applications based on graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08105 
PMID: 19516337 


490. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):817-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08096.

Existence of collisional trajectories of Mercury, Mars and Venus with the Earth.

Laskar J(1), Gastineau M.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomie et Systèmes Dynamiques, IMCCE-CNRS UMR8028, Observatoire de Paris, 
UPMC, 77 Avenue Denfert-Rochereau, 75014 Paris, France. laskar@imcce.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):781-2.

It has been established that, owing to the proximity of a resonance with Jupiter,
Mercury's eccentricity can be pumped to values large enough to allow collision
with Venus within 5 Gyr (refs 1-3). This conclusion, however, was established
either with averaged equations that are not appropriate near the collisions or
with non-relativistic models in which the resonance effect is greatly enhanced by
a decrease of the perihelion velocity of Mercury. In these previous studies, the 
Earth's orbit was essentially unaffected. Here we report numerical simulations of
the evolution of the Solar System over 5 Gyr, including contributions from the
Moon and general relativity. In a set of 2,501 orbits with initial conditions
that are in agreement with our present knowledge of the parameters of the Solar
System, we found, as in previous studies, that one per cent of the solutions lead
to a large increase in Mercury's eccentricity-an increase large enough to allow
collisions with Venus or the Sun. More surprisingly, in one of these
high-eccentricity solutions, a subsequent decrease in Mercury's eccentricity
induces a transfer of angular momentum from the giant planets that destabilizes
all the terrestrial planets approximately 3.34 Gyr from now, with possible
collisions of Mercury, Mars or Venus with the Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08096 
PMID: 19516336 


491. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):814-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08050.

Earth's transmission spectrum from lunar eclipse observations.

Pallé E(1), Osorio MR, Barrena R, Montañés-Rodríguez P, Martín EL.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, Vía Láctea s/n, E38205 La Laguna,
Tenerife, Spain. epalle@iac.es

Of the 342 planets so far discovered orbiting other stars, 58 'transit' the
stellar disk, meaning that they can be detected through a periodic decrease in
the flux of starlight. The light from the star passes through the atmosphere of
the planet, and in a few cases the basic atmospheric composition of the planet
can be estimated. As we get closer to finding analogues of Earth, an important
consideration for the characterization of extrasolar planetary atmospheres is
what the transmission spectrum of our planet looks like. Here we report the
optical and near-infrared transmission spectrum of the Earth, obtained during a
lunar eclipse. Some biologically relevant atmospheric features that are weak in
the reflection spectrum (such as ozone, molecular oxygen, water, carbon dioxide
and methane) are much stronger in the transmission spectrum, and indeed stronger 
than predicted by modelling. We also find the 'fingerprints' of the Earth's
ionosphere and of the major atmospheric constituent, molecular nitrogen (N(2)),
which are missing in the reflection spectrum.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08050 
PMID: 19516335 


492. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):808-13. doi: 10.1038/nature08076.

Flipping of alkylated DNA damage bridges base and nucleotide excision repair.

Tubbs JL(1), Latypov V, Kanugula S, Butt A, Melikishvili M, Kraehenbuehl R, Fleck
O, Marriott A, Watson AJ, Verbeek B, McGown G, Thorncroft M, Santibanez-Koref MF,
Millington C, Arvai AS, Kroeger MD, Peterson LA, Williams DM, Fried MG, Margison 
GP, Pegg AE, Tainer JA.

Author information: 
(1)Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology and Department of Molecular Biology, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Alkyltransferase-like proteins (ATLs) share functional motifs with the cancer
chemotherapy target O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) and
paradoxically protect cells from the biological effects of DNA alkylation damage,
despite lacking the reactive cysteine and alkyltransferase activity of AGT. Here 
we determine Schizosaccharomyces pombe ATL structures without and with damaged
DNA containing the endogenous lesion O(6)-methylguanine or
cigarette-smoke-derived O(6)-4-(3-pyridyl)-4-oxobutylguanine. These results
reveal non-enzymatic DNA nucleotide flipping plus increased DNA distortion and
binding pocket size compared to AGT. Our analysis of lesion-binding site
conservation identifies new ATLs in sea anemone and ancestral archaea, indicating
that ATL interactions are ancestral to present-day repair pathways in all domains
of life. Genetic connections to mammalian XPG (also known as ERCC5) and ERCC1 in 
S. pombe homologues Rad13 and Swi10 and biochemical interactions with Escherichia
coli UvrA and UvrC combined with structural results reveal that ATLs sculpt
alkylated DNA to create a genetic and structural intersection of base damage
processing with nucleotide excision repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08076 
PMCID: PMC2729916
PMID: 19516334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):802-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08085.

Histone H4 lysine 16 acetylation regulates cellular lifespan.

Dang W(1), Steffen KK, Perry R, Dorsey JA, Johnson FB, Shilatifard A, Kaeberlein 
M, Kennedy BK, Berger SL.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression and Regulation Program, The Wistar Institute Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Cells undergoing developmental processes are characterized by persistent
non-genetic alterations in chromatin, termed epigenetic changes, represented by
distinct patterns of DNA methylation and histone post-translational
modifications. Sirtuins, a group of conserved NAD(+)-dependent deacetylases or
ADP-ribosyltransferases, promote longevity in diverse organisms; however, their
molecular mechanisms in ageing regulation remain poorly understood. Yeast Sir2,
the first member of the family to be found, establishes and maintains chromatin
silencing by removing histone H4 lysine 16 acetylation and bringing in other
silencing proteins. Here we report an age-associated decrease in Sir2 protein
abundance accompanied by an increase in H4 lysine 16 acetylation and loss of
histones at specific subtelomeric regions in replicatively old yeast cells, which
results in compromised transcriptional silencing at these loci. Antagonizing
activities of Sir2 and Sas2, a histone acetyltransferase, regulate the
replicative lifespan through histone H4 lysine 16 at subtelomeric regions. This
pathway, distinct from existing ageing models for yeast, may represent an
evolutionarily conserved function of sirtuins in regulation of replicative ageing
by maintenance of intact telomeric chromatin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08085 
PMCID: PMC2702157
PMID: 19516333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):789-95. doi: 10.1038/nature07987.

Solar eclipses as an astrophysical laboratory.

Pasachoff JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Williams College - Hopkins Observatory, 33 Lab Campus Drive, Williamstown,
Massachusetts 01267, USA. jmp@williams.edu

Observations of the Sun during total eclipses have led to major discoveries, such
as the existence of helium (from its spectrum), the high temperature of the
corona (though the reason for the high temperature remains controversial), and
the role of magnetic fields in injecting energy into-and trapping ionized gases
within-stellar atmospheres. A new generation of ground-based eclipse observations
reaches spatial, temporal and spectral-resolution domains that are inaccessible
from space and therefore complement satellite studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07987 
PMID: 19516332 


495. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):E5-6; discussion E6. doi: 10.1038/nature08048.

Early Cambrian ocean anoxia in South China.

Jiang SY(1), Pi DH, Heubeck C, Frimmel H, Liu YP, Deng HL, Ling HF, Yang JH.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Mineral Deposits Research, Department of Earth
Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. shyjiang@nju.edu.cn

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Jun 5;453(7196):767-9.

The cause of the most marked changes in the evolution of life, which define the
first-order stratigraphic boundary between the Precambrian and the Phanerozoic
eon, remains enigmatic and a highly topical subject of debate. A global ocean
anoxic event, triggered by large-scale hydrogen sulphide (H(2)S) release to
surface waters, has been suggested by Wille et al., on the basis of two data sets
from South China and Oman, to explain the fundamental biological changes across
the Precambrian/Cambrian (PC/C) boundary. Here we report a new precise SHRIMP
U-Pb zircon age of 532.3 +/- 0.7 million years (Myr) ago (Fig. 1) for a volcanic 
ash bed in the critical unit that reflects the ocean anoxic event, the lowermost 
black shale sequence of the Niutitang Formation in the Guizhou Province, South
China. This age is significantly younger than the precise PC/C boundary age of
542.0 +/- 0.3 Myr ago, approximately 10 Myr younger than the extinction of the
Ediacaran fauna, and thus challenging the view of a major ocean anoxic event
having been responsible for the major changes in the direction of evolution at
the PC/C boundary.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08048 
PMID: 19516284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):852-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08054. Epub 2009 May 27.

Polar gradients of the DYRK-family kinase Pom1 couple cell length with the cell
cycle.

Martin SG(1), Berthelot-Grosjean M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology and Medicine, University
of Lausanne, Génopode Building, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. Sophie.Martin@unil.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):782-3.

Cells normally grow to a certain size before they enter mitosis and divide. Entry
into mitosis depends on the activity of Cdk1, which is inhibited by the Wee1
kinase and activated by the Cdc25 phosphatase. However, how cells sense their
size for mitotic commitment remains unknown. Here we show that an intracellular
gradient of the dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation regulated kinase (DYRK)
Pom1, which emanates from the ends of rod-shaped Schizosaccharomyces pombe cells,
serves to measure cell length and control mitotic entry. Pom1 provides positional
information both for polarized growth and to inhibit cell division at cell ends. 
We discovered that Pom1 is also a dose-dependent G2-M inhibitor. Genetic analyses
indicate that Pom1 negatively regulates Cdr1 and Cdr2, two previously described
Wee1 inhibitors of the SAD kinase family. This inhibition may be direct, because 
in vivo and in vitro evidence suggest that Pom1 phosphorylates Cdr2. Whereas Cdr1
and Cdr2 localize to a medial cortical region, Pom1 forms concentration gradients
from cell tips that overlap with Cdr1 and Cdr2 in short cells, but not in long
cells. Disturbing these Pom1 gradients leads to Cdr2 phosphorylation and imposes 
a G2 delay. In short cells, Pom1 prevents precocious M-phase entry, suggesting
that the higher medial Pom1 levels inhibit Cdr2 and promote a G2 delay. Thus,
gradients of Pom1 from cell ends provide a measure of cell length to regulate
M-phase entry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08054 
PMID: 19474792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):796-801. doi: 10.1038/nature08068. Epub 2009 May
27.

Dual nature of the adaptive immune system in lampreys.

Guo P(1), Hirano M, Herrin BR, Li J, Yu C, Sadlonova A, Cooper MD.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center and Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
Emory University, 1462 Clifton Road North-East, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 20;460(7258):1044.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):784-6.

Jawless vertebrates use variable lymphocyte receptors (VLR) comprised of
leucine-rich-repeat (LRR) segments as counterparts of the immunoglobulin-based
receptors that jawed vertebrates use for antigen recognition. Highly diverse VLR 
genes are somatically assembled by the insertion of variable LRR sequences into
incomplete germline VLRA and VLRB genes. Here we show that in sea lampreys
(Petromyzon marinus) VLRA and VLRB anticipatory receptors are expressed by
separate lymphocyte populations by monoallelic VLRA or VLRB assembly, together
with expression of cytosine deaminase 1 (CDA1) or 2 (CDA2), respectively.
Distinctive gene expression profiles for VLRA(+) and VLRB(+) lymphocytes resemble
those of mammalian T and B cells. Although both the VLRA and the VLRB cells
proliferate in response to antigenic stimulation, only the VLRB lymphocytes bind 
native antigens and differentiate into VLR antibody-secreting cells. Conversely, 
VLRA lymphocytes respond preferentially to a classical T-cell mitogen and
upregulate the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine genes interleukin-17
(IL-17) and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). The finding of T-like
and B-like lymphocytes in lampreys offers new insight into the evolution of
adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08068 
PMCID: PMC2714547
PMID: 19474790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):857-60. doi: 10.1038/nature08074. Epub 2009 May 27.

A spatial gradient coordinates cell size and mitotic entry in fission yeast.

Moseley JB(1), Mayeux A, Paoletti A, Nurse P.

Author information: 
(1)The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
jmoseley@rockefeller.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):782-3.

Many eukaryotic cell types undergo size-dependent cell cycle transitions
controlled by the ubiquitous cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk1 (refs 1-4). The
proteins that control Cdk1 activity are well described but their links with
mechanisms monitoring cell size remain elusive. In the fission yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe, cells enter mitosis and divide at a defined and
reproducible size owing to the regulated activity of Cdk1 (refs 2, 3). Here we
show that the cell polarity protein kinase Pom1, which localizes to cell ends,
regulates a signalling network that contributes to the control of mitotic entry. 
This network is located at cortical nodes in the middle of interphase cells, and 
these nodes contain the Cdk1 inhibitor Wee1, the Wee1-inhibitory kinases Cdr1
(also known as Nim1) and Cdr2, and the anillin-like protein Mid1. Cdr2
establishes the hierarchical localization of other proteins in the nodes, and
receives negative regulatory signals from Pom1. Pom1 forms a polar gradient
extending from the cell ends towards the cell middle and acts as a dose-dependent
inhibitor of mitotic entry, working through the Cdr2 pathway. As cells elongate, 
Pom1 levels decrease at the cell middle, leading to mitotic entry. We propose
that the Pom1 polar gradient and the medial cortical nodes generate information
about cell size and coordinate this with mitotic entry by regulating Cdk1 through
Pom1, Cdr2, Cdr1 and Wee1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08074 
PMID: 19474789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):837-41. doi: 10.1038/nature08028. Epub 2009 May 17.

Two types of dopamine neuron distinctly convey positive and negative motivational
signals.

Matsumoto M(1), Hikosaka O.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-4435, USA. matsumotom@nei.nih.gov

Midbrain dopamine neurons are activated by reward or sensory stimuli predicting
reward. These excitatory responses increase as the reward value increases. This
response property has led to a hypothesis that dopamine neurons encode
value-related signals and are inhibited by aversive events. Here we show that
this is true only for a subset of dopamine neurons. We recorded the activity of
dopamine neurons in monkeys (Macaca mulatta) during a Pavlovian procedure with
appetitive and aversive outcomes (liquid rewards and airpuffs directed at the
face, respectively). We found that some dopamine neurons were excited by
reward-predicting stimuli and inhibited by airpuff-predicting stimuli, as the
value hypothesis predicts. However, a greater number of dopamine neurons were
excited by both of these stimuli, inconsistent with the hypothesis. Some dopamine
neurons were also excited by both rewards and airpuffs themselves, especially
when they were unpredictable. Neurons excited by the airpuff-predicting stimuli
were located more dorsolaterally in the substantia nigra pars compacta, whereas
neurons inhibited by the stimuli were located more ventromedially, some in the
ventral tegmental area. A similar anatomical difference was observed for their
responses to actual airpuffs. These findings suggest that different groups of
dopamine neurons convey motivational signals in distinct manners.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08028 
PMCID: PMC2739096
PMID: 19448610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):824-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08043. Epub 2009 May 13.

Total synthesis of eudesmane terpenes by site-selective C-H oxidations.

Chen K(1), Baran PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 N. Torrey Pines
Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):786-7.

From menthol to cholesterol to Taxol, terpenes are a ubiquitous group of
molecules (over 55,000 members isolated so far) that have long provided humans
with flavours, fragrances, hormones, medicines and even commercial products such 
as rubber. Although they possess a seemingly endless variety of architectural
complexities, the biosynthesis of terpenes often occurs in a unified fashion as a
'two-phase' process. In the first phase (the cyclase phase), simple linear
hydrocarbon phosphate building blocks are stitched together by means of 'prenyl
coupling', followed by enzymatically controlled molecular cyclizations and
rearrangements. In the second phase (the oxidase phase), oxidation of alkenes and
carbon-hydrogen bonds results in a large array of structural diversity. Although 
organic chemists have made great progress in developing the logic needed for the 
cyclase phase of terpene synthesis, particularly in the area of polyene
cyclizations, much remains to be learned if the oxidase phase is to be mimicked
in the laboratory. Here we show how the logic of terpene biosynthesis has
inspired the highly efficient and stereocontrolled syntheses of five oxidized
members of the eudesmane family of terpenes in a modicum of steps by a series of 
simple carbocycle-forming reactions followed by multiple site-selective inter-
and intramolecular carbon-hydrogen oxidations. This work establishes an
intellectual framework in which to conceive the laboratory synthesis of other
complex terpenes using a 'two-phase' approach.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08043 
PMID: 19440196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):847-51. doi: 10.1038/nature08036.

Haematopoietic malignancies caused by dysregulation of a chromatin-binding PHD
finger.

Wang GG(1), Song J, Wang Z, Dormann HL, Casadio F, Li H, Luo JL, Patel DJ, Allis 
CD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromatin Biology & Epigenetics, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10065, USA.

Histone H3 lysine 4 methylation (H3K4me) has been proposed as a critical
component in regulating gene expression, epigenetic states, and cellular
identities1. The biological meaning of H3K4me is interpreted by conserved modules
including plant homeodomain (PHD) fingers that recognize varied H3K4me states.
The dysregulation of PHD fingers has been implicated in several human diseases,
including cancers and immune or neurological disorders. Here we report that
fusing an H3K4-trimethylation (H3K4me3)-binding PHD finger, such as the
carboxy-terminal PHD finger of PHF23 or JARID1A (also known as KDM5A or RBBP2),
to a common fusion partner nucleoporin-98 (NUP98) as identified in human
leukaemias, generated potent oncoproteins that arrested haematopoietic
differentiation and induced acute myeloid leukaemia in murine models. In these
processes, a PHD finger that specifically recognizes H3K4me3/2 marks was
essential for leukaemogenesis. Mutations in PHD fingers that abrogated H3K4me3
binding also abolished leukaemic transformation. NUP98-PHD fusion prevented the
differentiation-associated removal of H3K4me3 at many loci encoding
lineage-specific transcription factors (Hox(s), Gata3, Meis1, Eya1 and Pbx1), and
enforced their active gene transcription in murine haematopoietic stem/progenitor
cells. Mechanistically, NUP98-PHD fusions act as 'chromatin boundary factors',
dominating over polycomb-mediated gene silencing to 'lock' developmentally
critical loci into an active chromatin state (H3K4me3 with induced histone
acetylation), a state that defined leukaemia stem cells. Collectively, our
studies represent, to our knowledge, the first report that deregulation of the
PHD finger, an 'effector' of specific histone modification, perturbs the
epigenetic dynamics on developmentally critical loci, catastrophizes cellular
fate decision-making, and even causes oncogenesis during mammalian development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08036 
PMCID: PMC2697266
PMID: 19430464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):842-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08000. Epub 2009 May 6.

Specificity of sensory-motor connections encoded by Sema3e-Plxnd1 recognition.

Pecho-Vrieseling E(1), Sigrist M, Yoshida Y, Jessell TM, Arber S.

Author information: 
(1)Biozentrum, Department of Cell Biology, University of Basel, 4056 Basel,
Switzerland.

Spinal reflexes are mediated by synaptic connections between sensory afferents
and motor neurons. The organization of these circuits shows several levels of
specificity. Only certain classes of proprioceptive sensory neurons make direct, 
monosynaptic connections with motor neurons. Those that do are bound by rules of 
motor pool specificity: they form strong connections with motor neurons supplying
the same muscle, but avoid motor pools supplying antagonistic muscles. This
pattern of connectivity is initially accurate and is maintained in the absence of
activity, implying that wiring specificity relies on the matching of recognition 
molecules on the surface of sensory and motor neurons. However, determinants of
fine synaptic specificity here, as in most regions of the central nervous system,
have yet to be defined. To address the origins of synaptic specificity in these
reflex circuits we have used molecular genetic methods to manipulate recognition 
proteins expressed by subsets of sensory and motor neurons. We show here that a
recognition system involving expression of the class 3 semaphorin Sema3e by
selected motor neuron pools, and its high-affinity receptor plexin D1 (Plxnd1) by
proprioceptive sensory neurons, is a critical determinant of synaptic specificity
in sensory-motor circuits in mice. Changing the profile of Sema3e-Plxnd1
signalling in sensory or motor neurons results in functional and anatomical
rewiring of monosynaptic connections, but does not alter motor pool specificity. 
Our findings indicate that patterns of monosynaptic connectivity in this
prototypic central nervous system circuit are constructed through a recognition
program based on repellent signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08000 
PMCID: PMC2847258
PMID: 19421194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):866-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08065.

Hexameric assembly of the proteasomal ATPases is templated through their C
termini.

Park S(1), Roelofs J, Kim W, Robert J, Schmidt M, Gygi SP, Finley D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):787-8.

Substrates of the proteasome are recognized and unfolded by the regulatory
particle, and then translocated into the core particle (CP) to be degraded. A
hetero-hexameric ATPase ring, containing subunits Rpt1-6, is situated within the 
base subassembly of the regulatory particle. The ATPase ring sits atop the CP,
with the Rpt carboxy termini inserted into pockets in the CP. Here we identify a 
previously unknown function of the Rpt proteins in proteasome biogenesis through 
deleting the C-terminal residue from each Rpt in the yeast Saccharomyces
cerevisiae. Our results indicate that assembly of the hexameric ATPase ring is
templated on the CP. We have also identified an apparent intermediate in base
assembly, BP1, which contains Rpn1, three Rpts and Hsm3, a chaperone for base
assembly. The Rpt proteins with the strongest assembly phenotypes, Rpt4 and Rpt6,
were absent from BP1. We propose that Rpt4 and Rpt6 form a nucleating complex to 
initiate base assembly, and that this complex is subsequently joined by BP1 to
complete the Rpt ring. Our studies show that assembly of the proteasome base is a
rapid yet highly orchestrated process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08065 
PMCID: PMC2722381
PMID: 19412160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):861-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08063.

Chaperone-mediated pathway of proteasome regulatory particle assembly.

Roelofs J(1), Park S, Haas W, Tian G, McAllister FE, Huo Y, Lee BH, Zhang F, Shi 
Y, Gygi SP, Finley D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 11;459(7248):787-8.

The proteasome is a protease that controls diverse processes in eukaryotic cells.
Its regulatory particle (RP) initiates the degradation of ubiquitin-protein
conjugates by unfolding the substrate and translocating it into the proteasome
core particle (CP) to be degraded. The RP has 19 subunits, and their pathway of
assembly is not understood. Here we show that in the yeast Saccharomyces
cerevisiae three proteins are found associated with RP but not with the RP-CP
holoenzyme: Nas6, Rpn14 and Hsm3. Mutations in the corresponding genes confer
proteasome loss-of-function phenotypes, despite their virtual absence from the
holoenzyme. These effects result from deficient RP assembly. Thus, Nas6, Rpn14
and Hsm3 are RP chaperones. The RP contains six ATPases-the Rpt proteins-and each
RP chaperone binds to the carboxy-terminal domain of a specific Rpt. We show in
an accompanying study that RP assembly is templated through the Rpt C termini,
apparently by their insertion into binding pockets in the CP. Thus, RP chaperones
may regulate proteasome assembly by directly restricting the accessibility of Rpt
C termini to the CP. In addition, competition between the RP chaperones and the
CP for Rpt engagement may explain the release of RP chaperones as proteasomes
mature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08063 
PMCID: PMC2727592
PMID: 19412159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):731-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07870.

Metamorphic enzyme assembly in polyketide diversification.

Gu L(1), Wang B, Kulkarni A, Geders TW, Grindberg RV, Gerwick L, Håkansson K,
Wipf P, Smith JL, Gerwick WH, Sherman DH.

Author information: 
(1)Life Sciences Institute, Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    ACS Chem Biol. 2009 Jul 17;4(7):495-7.

Natural product chemical diversity is fuelled by the emergence and ongoing
evolution of biosynthetic pathways in secondary metabolism. However, co-evolution
of enzymes for metabolic diversification is not well understood, especially at
the biochemical level. Here, two parallel assemblies with an extraordinarily high
sequence identity from Lyngbya majuscula form a beta-branched cyclopropane in the
curacin A pathway (Cur), and a vinyl chloride group in the jamaicamide pathway
(Jam). The components include a halogenase, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl enzyme
cassette for polyketide beta-branching, and an enoyl reductase domain. The
halogenase from CurA, and the dehydratases (ECH(1)s), decarboxylases (ECH(2)s)
and enoyl reductase domains from both Cur and Jam, were assessed biochemically to
determine the mechanisms of cyclopropane and vinyl chloride formation.
Unexpectedly, the polyketide beta-branching pathway was modified by introduction 
of a gamma-chlorination step on (S)-3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl mediated by Cur
halogenase, a non-haem Fe(ii), alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent enzyme. In a
divergent scheme, Cur ECH(2) was found to catalyse formation of the alpha,beta
enoyl thioester, whereas Jam ECH(2) formed a vinyl chloride moiety by selectively
generating the corresponding beta,gamma enoyl thioester of the
3-methyl-4-chloroglutaconyl decarboxylation product. Finally, the enoyl reductase
domain of CurF specifically catalysed an unprecedented cyclopropanation on the
chlorinated product of Cur ECH(2) instead of the canonical alpha,beta C = C
saturation reaction. Thus, the combination of chlorination and polyketide
beta-branching, coupled with mechanistic diversification of ECH(2) and enoyl
reductase, leads to the formation of cyclopropane and vinyl chloride moieties.
These results reveal a parallel interplay of evolutionary events in multienzyme
systems leading to functional group diversity in secondary metabolites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07870 
PMCID: PMC2918389
PMID: 19494914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):694-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08044.

Kinematic variables and water transport control the formation and location of arc
volcanoes.

Grove TL(1), Till CB, Lev E, Chatterjee N, Médard E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. tlgrove@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Dec 9;468(7325):E6-7; discussion E7-8.

The processes that give rise to arc magmas at convergent plate margins have long 
been a subject of scientific research and debate. A consensus has developed that 
the mantle wedge overlying the subducting slab and fluids and/or melts from the
subducting slab itself are involved in the melting process. However, the role of 
kinematic variables such as slab dip and convergence rate in the formation of arc
magmas is still unclear. The depth to the top of the subducting slab beneath
volcanic arcs, usually approximately 110 +/- 20 km, was previously thought to be 
constant among arcs. Recent studies revealed that the depth of intermediate-depth
earthquakes underneath volcanic arcs, presumably marking the slab-wedge
interface, varies systematically between approximately 60 and 173 km and
correlates with slab dip and convergence rate. Water-rich magmas (over 4-6 wt%
H(2)O) are found in subduction zones with very different subduction parameters,
including those with a shallow-dipping slab (north Japan), or steeply dipping
slab (Marianas). Here we propose a simple model to address how kinematic
parameters of plate subduction relate to the location of mantle melting at
subduction zones. We demonstrate that the location of arc volcanoes is controlled
by a combination of conditions: melting in the wedge is induced at the overlap of
regions in the wedge that are hotter than the melting curve (solidus) of
vapour-saturated peridotite and regions where hydrous minerals both in the wedge 
and in the subducting slab break down. These two limits for melt generation, when
combined with the kinematic parameters of slab dip and convergence rate, provide 
independent constraints on the thermal structure of the wedge and accurately
predict the location of mantle wedge melting and the position of arc volcanoes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08044 
PMID: 19494913 


507. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):690-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08024.

The Gamburtsev mountains and the origin and early evolution of the Antarctic Ice 
Sheet.

Bo S(1), Siegert MJ, Mudd SM, Sugden D, Fujita S, Xiangbin C, Yunyun J, Xueyuan
T, Yuansheng L.

Author information: 
(1)Polar Research Institute of China, 451 Jinqiao Road, Pudong, Shanghai, 200136,
China. sunbo@pric.gov.cn

Ice-sheet development in Antarctica was a result of significant and rapid global 
climate change about 34 million years ago. Ice-sheet and climate modelling
suggest reductions in atmospheric carbon dioxide (less than three times the
pre-industrial level of 280 parts per million by volume) that, in conjunction
with the development of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current, led to cooling and
glaciation paced by changes in Earth's orbit. Based on the present subglacial
topography, numerical models point to ice-sheet genesis on mountain massifs of
Antarctica, including the Gamburtsev mountains at Dome A, the centre of the
present ice sheet. Our lack of knowledge of the present-day topography of the
Gamburtsev mountains means, however, that the nature of early glaciation and
subsequent development of a continental-sized ice sheet are uncertain. Here we
present radar information about the base of the ice at Dome A, revealing classic 
Alpine topography with pre-existing river valleys overdeepened by valley glaciers
formed when the mean summer surface temperature was around 3 degrees C. This
landscape is likely to have developed during the initial phases of Antarctic
glaciation. According to Antarctic climate history (estimated from offshore
sediment records) the Gamburtsev mountains are probably older than 34 million
years and were the main centre for ice-sheet growth. Moreover, the landscape has 
most probably been preserved beneath the present ice sheet for around 14 million 
years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08024 
PMID: 19494912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):683-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08006.

Entangled mechanical oscillators.

Jost JD(1), Home JP, Amini JM, Hanneke D, Ozeri R, Langer C, Bollinger JJ,
Leibfried D, Wineland DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Time and Frequency Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA. john.d.jost@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):653-4.

Hallmarks of quantum mechanics include superposition and entanglement. In the
context of large complex systems, these features should lead to situations as
envisaged in the 'Schrödinger's cat' thought experiment (where the cat exists in 
a superposition of alive and dead states entangled with a radioactive nucleus).
Such situations are not observed in nature. This may be simply due to our
inability to sufficiently isolate the system of interest from the surrounding
environment-a technical limitation. Another possibility is some
as-yet-undiscovered mechanism that prevents the formation of macroscopic
entangled states. Such a limitation might depend on the number of elementary
constituents in the system or on the types of degrees of freedom that are
entangled. Tests of the latter possibility have been made with photons, atoms and
condensed matter devices. One system ubiquitous to nature where entanglement has 
not been previously demonstrated consists of distinct mechanical oscillators.
Here we demonstrate deterministic entanglement of separated mechanical
oscillators, consisting of the vibrational states of two pairs of atomic ions
held in different locations. We also demonstrate entanglement of the internal
states of an atomic ion with a distant mechanical oscillator. These results show 
quantum entanglement in a degree of freedom that pervades the classical world.
Such experiments may lead to the generation of entangled states of larger-scale
mechanical oscillators, and offer possibilities for testing non-locality with
mesoscopic systems. In addition, the control developed here is an important
ingredient for scaling-up quantum information processing with trapped atomic
ions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08006 
PMID: 19494911 


509. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):678-82. doi: 10.1038/nature08014.

Global circulation as the main source of cloud activity on Titan.

Rodriguez S(1), Le Mouélic S, Rannou P, Tobie G, Baines KH, Barnes JW, Griffith
CA, Hirtzig M, Pitman KM, Sotin C, Brown RH, Buratti BJ, Clark RN, Nicholson PD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Planétologie et Géodynamique, CNRS, UMR 6112, Université de
Nantes, 2 rue de la Houssinière, 44000 Nantes, France. sebastien.rodriguez@cea.fr

Clouds on Titan result from the condensation of methane and ethane and, as on
other planets, are primarily structured by circulation of the atmosphere. At
present, cloud activity mainly occurs in the southern (summer) hemisphere,
arising near the pole and at mid-latitudes from cumulus updrafts triggered by
surface heating and/or local methane sources, and at the north (winter) pole,
resulting from the subsidence and condensation of ethane-rich air into the colder
troposphere. General circulation models predict that this distribution should
change with the seasons on a 15-year timescale, and that clouds should develop
under certain circumstances at temperate latitudes ( approximately 40 degrees )
in the winter hemisphere. The models, however, have hitherto been poorly
constrained and their long-term predictions have not yet been observationally
verified. Here we report that the global spatial cloud coverage on Titan is in
general agreement with the models, confirming that cloud activity is mainly
controlled by the global circulation. The non-detection of clouds at latitude
approximately 40 degrees N and the persistence of the southern clouds while the
southern summer is ending are, however, both contrary to predictions. This
suggests that Titan's equator-to-pole thermal contrast is overestimated in the
models and that its atmosphere responds to the seasonal forcing with a greater
inertia than expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08014 
PMID: 19494910 


510. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):674-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08023.

A low-energy core-collapse supernova without a hydrogen envelope.

Valenti S(1), Pastorello A, Cappellaro E, Benetti S, Mazzali PA, Manteca J,
Taubenberger S, Elias-Rosa N, Ferrando R, Harutyunyan A, Hentunen VP, Nissinen M,
Pian E, Turatto M, Zampieri L, Smartt SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysics Research Centre, School of Mathematics and Physics, Queen's
University Belfast, Belfast BT7 1NN, UK. s.valenti@qub.ac.uk

The final fate of massive stars depends on many factors. Theory suggests that
some with initial masses greater than 25 to 30 solar masses end up as Wolf-Rayet 
stars, which are deficient in hydrogen in their outer layers because of mass loss
through strong stellar winds. The most massive of these stars have cores which
may form a black hole and theory predicts that the resulting explosion of some of
them produces ejecta of low kinetic energy, a faint optical luminosity and a
small mass fraction of radioactive nickel. An alternative origin for low-energy
supernovae is the collapse of the oxygen-neon core of a star of 7-9 solar masses.
No weak, hydrogen-deficient, core-collapse supernovae have hitherto been seen.
Here we report that SN 2008ha is a faint hydrogen-poor supernova. We propose that
other similar events have been observed but have been misclassified as peculiar
thermonuclear supernovae (sometimes labelled SN 2002cx-like events). This
discovery could link these faint supernovae to some long-duration gamma-ray
bursts, because extremely faint, hydrogen-stripped core-collapse supernovae have 
been proposed to produce such long gamma-ray bursts, the afterglows of which do
not show evidence of associated supernovae.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08023 
PMID: 19494909 


511. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):668-73. doi: 10.1038/nature08009.

Chaperonin overexpression promotes genetic variation and enzyme evolution.

Tokuriki N(1), Tawfik DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.

Most protein mutations, and mutations that alter protein functions in particular,
undermine stability and are therefore deleterious. Chaperones, or heat-shock
proteins, are often implicated in buffering mutations, and could thus facilitate 
the acquisition of neutral genetic diversity and the rate of adaptation. We
examined the ability of the Escherichia coli GroEL/GroES chaperonins to buffer
destabilizing and adaptive mutations. Here we show that mutational drifts
performed in vitro with four different enzymes indicated that GroEL/GroES
overexpression doubled the number of accumulating mutations, and promoted the
folding of enzyme variants carrying mutations in the protein core and/or
mutations with higher destabilizing effects (destabilization energies of >3.5
kcal mol(-)(1), on average, versus approximately 1 kcal mol(-)(1) in the absence 
of GroEL/GroES). The divergence of modified enzymatic specificity occurred much
faster under GroEL/GroES overexpression, in terms of the number of adapted
variants (>or=2-fold) and their improved specificity and activity (>or=10-fold). 
These results indicate that protein stability is a major constraint in protein
evolution, and buffering mechanisms such as chaperonins are key in alleviating
this constraint.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08009 
PMID: 19494908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):E3-4; discussion E4. doi: 10.1038/nature08091.

Attrition of memory CD8 T cells.

Welsh RM(1), Selin LK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA. raymond.welsh@umassmed.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):196-9.

An important role for the immune system is to maintain protective immunological
memory to a wide variety of pathogens encountered over one's lifetime, while
still leaving the host able to respond to newly encountered pathogens. Vezys et
al. make the interesting observation that it is possible to repeatedly immunize
mice in ways that allow for development of high numbers of memory CD8 T cells
without depleting pre-existing memory cells specific for other pathogens. This
study, which offers promise in developing potent vaccination schemes, is
seemingly at odds with work published by us in the 1990s showing a loss in CD8
memory cells after a series of infections. In their reply, Vezys et al. mention
that we may have misinterpreted our data because we reported the putative loss of
memory T cells as per cent rather than total number, but here we represent the
data in those studies as total cell number. We show here in Fig. 1 that a series 
of infections can indeed reduce the total number of memory cells, indicating that
vaccination strategies need to consider this issue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08091 
PMCID: PMC3226334
PMID: 19494857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):657-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08064.

Evolution of pathogenicity and sexual reproduction in eight Candida genomes.

Butler G(1), Rasmussen MD, Lin MF, Santos MA, Sakthikumar S, Munro CA, Rheinbay
E, Grabherr M, Forche A, Reedy JL, Agrafioti I, Arnaud MB, Bates S, Brown AJ,
Brunke S, Costanzo MC, Fitzpatrick DA, de Groot PW, Harris D, Hoyer LL, Hube B,
Klis FM, Kodira C, Lennard N, Logue ME, Martin R, Neiman AM, Nikolaou E, Quail
MA, Quinn J, Santos MC, Schmitzberger FF, Sherlock G, Shah P, Silverstein KA,
Skrzypek MS, Soll D, Staggs R, Stansfield I, Stumpf MP, Sudbery PE, Srikantha T, 
Zeng Q, Berman J, Berriman M, Heitman J, Gow NA, Lorenz MC, Birren BW, Kellis M, 
Cuomo CA.

Author information: 
(1)UCD School of Biomolecular and Biomedical Science, Conway Institute,
University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland. geraldine.butler@ucd.ie

Candida species are the most common cause of opportunistic fungal infection
worldwide. Here we report the genome sequences of six Candida species and compare
these and related pathogens and non-pathogens. There are significant expansions
of cell wall, secreted and transporter gene families in pathogenic species,
suggesting adaptations associated with virulence. Large genomic tracts are
homozygous in three diploid species, possibly resulting from recent recombination
events. Surprisingly, key components of the mating and meiosis pathways are
missing from several species. These include major differences at the mating-type 
loci (MTL); Lodderomyces elongisporus lacks MTL, and components of the a1/2 cell 
identity determinant were lost in other species, raising questions about how
mating and cell types are controlled. Analysis of the CUG leucine-to-serine
genetic-code change reveals that 99% of ancestral CUG codons were erased and new 
ones arose elsewhere. Lastly, we revise the Candida albicans gene catalogue,
identifying many new genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08064 
PMCID: PMC2834264
PMID: 19465905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):686-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08072.

Non-blinking semiconductor nanocrystals.

Wang X(1), Ren X, Kahen K, Hahn MA, Rajeswaran M, Maccagnano-Zacher S, Silcox J, 
Cragg GE, Efros AL, Krauss TD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627,
USA.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2015 Nov 26;527(7579):544.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):649-50.

The photoluminescence from a variety of individual molecules and nanometre-sized 
crystallites is defined by large intensity fluctuations, known as 'blinking',
whereby their photoluminescence turns 'on' and 'off' intermittently, even under
continuous photoexcitation. For semiconductor nanocrystals, it was originally
proposed that these 'off' periods corresponded to a nanocrystal with an extra
charge. A charged nanocrystal could have its photoluminescence temporarily
quenched owing to the high efficiency of non-radiative (for example, Auger)
recombination processes between the extra charge and a subsequently excited
electron-hole pair; photoluminescence would resume only after the nanocrystal
becomes neutralized again. Despite over a decade of research, completely
non-blinking nanocrystals have not been synthesized and an understanding of the
blinking phenomenon remains elusive. Here we report ternary core/shell
CdZnSe/ZnSe semiconductor nanocrystals that individually exhibit continuous,
non-blinking photoluminescence. Unexpectedly, these nanocrystals strongly
photoluminesce despite being charged, as indicated by a multi-peaked
photoluminescence spectral shape and short lifetime. To model the unusual
photoluminescence properties of the CdZnSe/ZnSe nanocrystals, we softened the
abrupt confinement potential of a typical core/shell nanocrystal, suggesting that
the structure is a radially graded alloy of CdZnSe into ZnSe. As
photoluminescence blinking severely limits the usefulness of nanocrystals in
applications requiring a continuous output of single photons, these non-blinking 
nanocrystals may enable substantial advances in fields ranging from
single-molecule biological labelling to low-threshold lasers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08072 
PMID: 19430463 


515. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):726-30. doi: 10.1038/nature08026.

The structure of a cytolytic alpha-helical toxin pore reveals its assembly
mechanism.

Mueller M(1), Grauschopf U, Maier T, Glockshuber R, Ban N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):651-2.

Pore-forming toxins (PFTs) are a class of potent virulence factors that convert
from a soluble form to a membrane-integrated pore. They exhibit their toxic
effect either by destruction of the membrane permeability barrier or by delivery 
of toxic components through the pores. Among the group of bacterial PFTs are some
of the most dangerous toxins, such as diphtheria and anthrax toxin. Examples of
eukaryotic PFTs are perforin and the membrane-attack complex, proteins of the
immune system. PFTs can be subdivided into two classes, alpha-PFTs and beta-PFTs,
depending on the suspected mode of membrane integration, either by alpha-helical 
or beta-sheet elements. The only high-resolution structure of a transmembrane PFT
pore is available for a beta-PFT--alpha-haemolysin from Staphylococcus aureus.
Cytolysin A (ClyA, also known as HlyE), an alpha-PFT, is a cytolytic -helical
toxin responsible for the haemolytic phenotype of several Escherichia coli and
Salmonella enterica strains. ClyA is cytotoxic towards cultured mammalian cells, 
induces apoptosis of macrophages and promotes tissue pervasion. Electron
microscopic reconstructions demonstrated that the soluble monomer of ClyA must
undergo large conformational changes to form the transmembrane pore. Here we
report the 3.3 A crystal structure of the 400 kDa dodecameric transmembrane pore 
formed by ClyA. The tertiary structure of ClyA protomers in the pore is
substantially different from that in the soluble monomer. The conversion involves
more than half of all residues. It results in large rearrangements, up to 140 A, 
of parts of the monomer, reorganization of the hydrophobic core, and transitions 
of -sheets and loop regions to -helices. The large extent of interdependent
conformational changes indicates a sequential mechanism for membrane insertion
and pore formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08026 
PMID: 19421192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):717-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07968. Epub 2009 May 3.

Mutations of multiple genes cause deregulation of NF-kappaB in diffuse large
B-cell lymphoma.

Compagno M(1), Lim WK, Grunn A, Nandula SV, Brahmachary M, Shen Q, Bertoni F,
Ponzoni M, Scandurra M, Califano A, Bhagat G, Chadburn A, Dalla-Favera R,
Pasqualucci L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics and the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common form of lymphoma in
adulthood, comprises multiple biologically and clinically distinct subtypes
including germinal centre B-cell-like (GCB) and activated B-cell-like (ABC)
DLBCL. Gene expression profile studies have shown that its most aggressive
subtype, ABC-DLBCL, is associated with constitutive activation of the NF-kappaB
transcription complex. However, except for a small fraction of cases, it remains 
unclear whether NF-kappaB activation in these tumours represents an intrinsic
program of the tumour cell of origin or a pathogenetic event. Here we show that
>50% of ABC-DLBCL and a smaller fraction of GCB-DLBCL carry somatic mutations in 
multiple genes, including negative (TNFAIP3, also called A20) and positive
(CARD11, TRAF2, TRAF5, MAP3K7 (TAK1) and TNFRSF11A (RANK)) regulators of
NF-kappaB. Of these, the A20 gene, which encodes a ubiquitin-modifying enzyme
involved in termination of NF-kappaB responses, is most commonly affected, with
approximately 30% of patients displaying biallelic inactivation by mutations
and/or deletions. When reintroduced in cell lines carrying biallelic inactivation
of the gene, A20 induced apoptosis and cell growth arrest, indicating a tumour
suppressor role. Less frequently, missense mutations of TRAF2 and CARD11 produce 
molecules with significantly enhanced ability to activate NF-kappaB. Thus, our
results demonstrate that NF-kappaB activation in DLBCL is caused by genetic
lesions affecting multiple genes, the loss or activation of which may promote
lymphomagenesis by leading to abnormally prolonged NF-kappaB responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07968 
PMCID: PMC2973325
PMID: 19412164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):712-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07969. Epub 2009 May 3.

Frequent inactivation of A20 in B-cell lymphomas.

Kato M(1), Sanada M, Kato I, Sato Y, Takita J, Takeuchi K, Niwa A, Chen Y,
Nakazaki K, Nomoto J, Asakura Y, Muto S, Tamura A, Iio M, Akatsuka Y, Hayashi Y, 
Mori H, Igarashi T, Kurokawa M, Chiba S, Mori S, Ishikawa Y, Okamoto K, Tobinai
K, Nakagama H, Nakahata T, Yoshino T, Kobayashi Y, Ogawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genomics Project, Department of Pediatrics, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

A20 is a negative regulator of the NF-kappaB pathway and was initially identified
as being rapidly induced after tumour-necrosis factor-alpha stimulation. It has a
pivotal role in regulation of the immune response and prevents excessive
activation of NF-kappaB in response to a variety of external stimuli; recent
genetic studies have disclosed putative associations of polymorphic A20 (also
called TNFAIP3) alleles with autoimmune disease risk. However, the involvement of
A20 in the development of human cancers is unknown. Here we show, using a
genome-wide analysis of genetic lesions in 238 B-cell lymphomas, that A20 is a
common genetic target in B-lineage lymphomas. A20 is frequently inactivated by
somatic mutations and/or deletions in mucosa-associated tissue lymphoma (18 out
of 87; 21.8%) and Hodgkin's lymphoma of nodular sclerosis histology (5 out of 15;
33.3%), and, to a lesser extent, in other B-lineage lymphomas. When re-expressed 
in a lymphoma-derived cell line with no functional A20 alleles, wild-type A20,
but not mutant A20, resulted in suppression of cell growth and induction of
apoptosis, accompanied by downregulation of NF-kappaB activation. The
A20-deficient cells stably generated tumours in immunodeficient mice, whereas the
tumorigenicity was effectively suppressed by re-expression of A20. In
A20-deficient cells, suppression of both cell growth and NF-kappaB activity due
to re-expression of A20 depended, at least partly, on cell-surface-receptor
signalling, including the tumour-necrosis factor receptor. Considering the
physiological function of A20 in the negative modulation of NF-kappaB activation 
induced by multiple upstream stimuli, our findings indicate that uncontrolled
signalling of NF-kappaB caused by loss of A20 function is involved in the
pathogenesis of subsets of B-lineage lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07969 
PMID: 19412163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):722-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08011. Epub 2009 May 3.

F-box protein FBXO31 mediates cyclin D1 degradation to induce G1 arrest after DNA
damage.

Santra MK(1), Wajapeyee N, Green MR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Programs in Gene Function and Expression and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts 01605, USA.

In response to DNA damage, eukaryotic cells initiate a complex signalling
pathway, termed the DNA damage response (DDR), which coordinates cell cycle
arrest with DNA repair. Studies have shown that oncogene-induced senescence,
which provides a barrier to tumour development, involves activation of the DDR.
Using a genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi) screen, we have identified 17 factors
required for oncogenic BRAF to induce senescence in primary fibroblasts and
melanocytes. One of these factors is an F-box protein, FBXO31, a candidate tumour
suppressor encoded in 16q24.3, a region in which there is loss of heterozygosity 
in breast, ovarian, hepatocellular and prostate cancers. Here we study the
cellular role of FBXO31, identify its target substrate and determine the basis
for its growth inhibitory activity. We show that ectopic expression of FBXO31
acts through a proteasome-directed pathway to mediate the degradation of cyclin
D1, an important regulator of progression from G1 to S phase, resulting in arrest
in G1. Cyclin D1 degradation results from a direct interaction with FBXO31 and is
dependent on the F-box motif of FBXO31 and phosphorylation of cyclin D1 at Thr
286, which is known to be required for cyclin D1 proteolysis. The involvement of 
the DDR in oncogene-induced senescence prompted us to investigate the role of
FBXO31 in DNA repair. We find that DNA damage induced by gamma-irradiation
results in increased FBXO31 levels, which requires phosphorylation of FBXO31 by
the DDR-initiating kinase ATM. RNAi-mediated knockdown of FBXO31 prevents cells
from undergoing efficient arrest in G1 after gamma-irradiation and markedly
increases sensitivity to DNA damage. Finally, we show that a variety of DNA
damaging agents all result in a large increase in FBXO31 levels, indicating that 
induction of FBXO31 is a general response to genotoxic stress. Our results reveal
FBXO31 as a regulator of the G1/S transition that is specifically required for
DNA damage-induced growth arrest.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08011 
PMCID: PMC2722223
PMID: 19412162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):703-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07993. Epub 2009 Apr 29.

Mechanism of differential control of NMDA receptor activity by NR2 subunits.

Gielen M(1), Siegler Retchless B, Mony L, Johnson JW, Paoletti P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie, Ecole Normale Supérieure, CNRS, 46 rue d'Ulm,
75005 Paris, France.

N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) are a major class of excitatory
neurotransmitter receptors in the central nervous system. They form
glutamate-gated ion channels that are highly permeable to calcium and mediate
activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. NMDAR dysfunction is implicated in
multiple brain disorders, including stroke, chronic pain and schizophrenia.
NMDARs exist as multiple subtypes with distinct pharmacological and biophysical
properties that are largely determined by the type of NR2 subunit (NR2A to NR2D) 
incorporated in the heteromeric NR1/NR2 complex. A fundamental difference between
NMDAR subtypes is their channel maximal open probability (P(o)), which spans a
50-fold range from about 0.5 for NR2A-containing receptors to about 0.01 for
receptors containing NR2C and NR2D; NR2B-containing receptors have an
intermediate value (about 0.1). These differences in P(o) confer unique charge
transfer capacities and signalling properties on each receptor subtype. The
molecular basis for this profound difference in activity between NMDAR subtypes
is unknown. Here we show that the subunit-specific gating of NMDARs is controlled
by the region formed by the NR2 amino-terminal domain (NTD), an extracellular
clamshell-like domain previously shown to bind allosteric inhibitors, and the
short linker connecting the NTD to the agonist-binding domain (ABD). The subtype 
specificity of NMDAR P(o) largely reflects differences in the spontaneous
(ligand-independent) equilibrium between open-cleft and closed-cleft
conformations of the NR2-NTD. This NTD-driven gating control also affects
pharmacological properties by setting the sensitivity to the endogenous
inhibitors zinc and protons. Our results provide a proof of concept for a
drug-based bidirectional control of NMDAR activity by using molecules acting
either as NR2-NTD 'closers' or 'openers' promoting receptor inhibition or
potentiation, respectively.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07993 
PMCID: PMC2711440
PMID: 19404260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):698-702. doi: 10.1038/nature07991. Epub 2009 Apr 26.

Parvalbumin neurons and gamma rhythms enhance cortical circuit performance.

Sohal VS(1), Zhang F, Yizhar O, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Synchronized oscillations and inhibitory interneurons have important and
interconnected roles within cortical microcircuits. In particular, interneurons
defined by the fast-spiking phenotype and expression of the calcium-binding
protein parvalbumin have been suggested to be involved in gamma (30-80 Hz)
oscillations, which are hypothesized to enhance information processing. However, 
because parvalbumin interneurons cannot be selectively controlled, definitive
tests of their functional significance in gamma oscillations, and quantitative
assessment of the impact of parvalbumin interneurons and gamma oscillations on
cortical circuits, have been lacking despite potentially enormous significance
(for example, abnormalities in parvalbumin interneurons may underlie altered
gamma-frequency synchronization and cognition in schizophrenia and autism). Here 
we use a panel of optogenetic technologies in mice to selectively modulate
multiple distinct circuit elements in neocortex, alone or in combination. We find
that inhibiting parvalbumin interneurons suppresses gamma oscillations in vivo,
whereas driving these interneurons (even by means of non-rhythmic principal cell 
activity) is sufficient to generate emergent gamma-frequency rhythmicity.
Moreover, gamma-frequency modulation of excitatory input in turn was found to
enhance signal transmission in neocortex by reducing circuit noise and amplifying
circuit signals, including inputs to parvalbumin interneurons. As demonstrated
here, optogenetics opens the door to a new kind of informational analysis of
brain function, permitting quantitative delineation of the functional
significance of individual elements in the emergent operation and function of
intact neural circuitry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07991 
PMCID: PMC3969859
PMID: 19396159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):708-11. doi: 10.1038/nature08039. Epub 2009 Apr 26.

Directed transdifferentiation of mouse mesoderm to heart tissue by defined
factors.

Takeuchi JK(1), Bruneau BG.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California
94158, USA. takeuchi.j.ab@m.titech.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):654-5.

Heart disease is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in the western
world. The heart has little regenerative capacity after damage, leading to much
interest in understanding the factors required to produce new cardiac myocytes.
Despite a robust understanding of the molecular networks regulating cardiac
differentiation, no single transcription factor or combination of factors has
been shown to activate the cardiac gene program de novo in mammalian cells or
tissues. Here we define the minimal requirements for transdifferentiation of
mouse mesoderm to cardiac myocytes. We show that two cardiac transcription
factors, Gata4 and Tbx5, and a cardiac-specific subunit of BAF
chromatin-remodelling complexes, Baf60c (also called Smarcd3), can direct ectopic
differentiation of mouse mesoderm into beating cardiomyocytes, including the
normally non-cardiogenic posterior mesoderm and the extraembryonic mesoderm of
the amnion. Gata4 with Baf60c initiated ectopic cardiac gene expression. Addition
of Tbx5 allowed differentiation into contracting cardiomyocytes and repression of
non-cardiac mesodermal genes. Baf60c was essential for the ectopic cardiogenic
activity of Gata4 and Tbx5, partly by permitting binding of Gata4 to cardiac
genes, indicating a novel instructive role for BAF complexes in tissue-specific
regulation. The combined function of these factors establishes a robust mechanism
for controlling cellular differentiation, and may allow reprogramming of new
cardiomyocytes for regenerative purposes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08039 
PMCID: PMC2728356
PMID: 19396158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):663-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08002. Epub 2009 Apr 26.

Driving fast-spiking cells induces gamma rhythm and controls sensory responses.

Cardin JA(1), Carlén M, Meletis K, Knoblich U, Zhang F, Deisseroth K, Tsai LH,
Moore CI.

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research and Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Cortical gamma oscillations (20-80 Hz) predict increases in focused attention,
and failure in gamma regulation is a hallmark of neurological and psychiatric
disease. Current theory predicts that gamma oscillations are generated by
synchronous activity of fast-spiking inhibitory interneurons, with the resulting 
rhythmic inhibition producing neural ensemble synchrony by generating a narrow
window for effective excitation. We causally tested these hypotheses in barrel
cortex in vivo by targeting optogenetic manipulation selectively to fast-spiking 
interneurons. Here we show that light-driven activation of fast-spiking
interneurons at varied frequencies (8-200 Hz) selectively amplifies gamma
oscillations. In contrast, pyramidal neuron activation amplifies only lower
frequency oscillations, a cell-type-specific double dissociation. We found that
the timing of a sensory input relative to a gamma cycle determined the amplitude 
and precision of evoked responses. Our data directly support the
fast-spiking-gamma hypothesis and provide the first causal evidence that distinct
network activity states can be induced in vivo by cell-type-specific activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08002 
PMCID: PMC3655711
PMID: 19396156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):578-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07952.

Bacteria hijack integrin-linked kinase to stabilize focal adhesions and block
cell detachment.

Kim M(1), Ogawa M, Fujita Y, Yoshikawa Y, Nagai T, Koyama T, Nagai S, Lange A,
Fässler R, Sasakawa C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Control, International Research Center for
Infectious Diseases, University of Tokyo, 4-6-1, Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo
108-8639, Japan.

The rapid turnover and exfoliation of mucosal epithelial cells provides an innate
defence system against bacterial infection. Nevertheless, many pathogenic
bacteria, including Shigella, are able to surmount exfoliation and colonize the
epithelium efficiently. Here we show that the Shigella flexneri effector OspE
(consisting of OspE1 and OspE2 proteins), which is highly conserved among
enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, enterohaemorrhagic E. coli, Citrobacter
rodentium and Salmonella strains, reinforces host cell adherence to the basement 
membrane by interacting with integrin-linked kinase (ILK). The number of focal
adhesions was augmented along with membrane fraction ILK by ILK-OspE binding. The
interaction between ILK and OspE increased cell surface levels of 1 integrin and 
suppressed phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase and paxillin, which are
required for rapid turnover of focal adhesion in cell motility.
Nocodazole-washout-induced focal adhesion disassembly was blocked by expression
of OspE. Polarized epithelial cells infected with a Shigella mutant lacking the
ospE gene underwent more rapid cell detachment than cells infected with wild-type
Shigella. Infection of guinea pig colons with Shigella corroborated the pivotal
role of the OspE-ILK interaction in suppressing epithelial detachment, increasing
bacterial cell-to-cell spreading, and promoting bacterial colonization. These
results indicate that Shigella sustain their infectious foothold by using special
tactics to prevent detachment of infected cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07952 
PMID: 19489119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):550-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08061.

A picogram- and nanometre-scale photonic-crystal optomechanical cavity.

Eichenfield M(1), Camacho R, Chan J, Vahala KJ, Painter O.

Author information: 
(1)Thomas J. Watson, Sr. Laboratory of Applied Physics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

The dynamic back-action caused by electromagnetic forces (radiation pressure) in 
optical and microwave cavities is of growing interest. Back-action cooling, for
example, is being pursued as a means of achieving the quantum ground state of
macroscopic mechanical oscillators. Work in the optical domain has revolved
around millimetre- or micrometre-scale structures using the radiation pressure
force. By comparison, in microwave devices, low-loss superconducting structures
have been used for gradient-force-mediated coupling to a nanomechanical
oscillator of picogram mass. Here we describe measurements of an optical system
consisting of a pair of specially patterned nanoscale beams in which optical and 
mechanical energies are simultaneously localized to a cubic-micron-scale volume, 
and for which large per-photon optical gradient forces are realized. The
resulting scale of the per-photon force and the mass of the structure enable the 
exploration of cavity optomechanical regimes in which, for example, the
mechanical rigidity of the structure is dominantly provided by the internal light
field itself. In addition to precision measurement and sensitive force detection,
nano-optomechanics may find application in reconfigurable and tunable photonic
systems, light-based radio-frequency communication and the generation of giant
optical nonlinearities for wavelength conversion and optical buffering.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08061 
PMID: 19489118 


525. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):534-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08010.

Hippocampal theta oscillations are travelling waves.

Lubenov EV(1), Siapas AG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, Division of Engineering and Applied Science, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. lubenov@caltech.edu

Theta oscillations clock hippocampal activity during awake behaviour and rapid
eye movement (REM) sleep. These oscillations are prominent in the local field
potential, and they also reflect the subthreshold membrane potential and strongly
modulate the spiking of hippocampal neurons. The prevailing view is that theta
oscillations are synchronized throughout the hippocampus, despite the lack of
conclusive experimental evidence. In contrast, here we show that in freely
behaving rats, theta oscillations in area CA1 are travelling waves that propagate
roughly along the septotemporal axis of the hippocampus. Furthermore, we find
that spiking in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer is modulated in a consistent
travelling wave pattern. Our results demonstrate that theta oscillations pattern 
hippocampal activity not only in time, but also across anatomical space. The
presence of travelling waves indicates that the instantaneous output of the
hippocampus is topographically organized and represents a segment, rather than a 
point, of physical space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08010 
PMID: 19489117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):583-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07875.

A regulated auxin minimum is required for seed dispersal in Arabidopsis.

Sorefan K(1), Girin T, Liljegren SJ, Ljung K, Robles P, Galván-Ampudia CS,
Offringa R, Friml J, Yanofsky MF, Østergaard L.

Author information: 
(1)Crop Genetics Department, John Innes Centre, Norwich Research Park, Colney
Lane, Norwich, Norfolk NR4 7UH, UK.

Local hormone maxima are essential for the development of multicellular
structures and organs. For example, steroid hormones accumulate in specific cell 
types of the animal fetus to induce sexual differentiation and concentration
peaks of the plant hormone auxin direct organ initiation and mediate tissue
patterning. Here we provide an example of a regulated local hormone minimum
required during organogenesis. Our results demonstrate that formation of a local 
auxin minimum is necessary for specification of the valve margin separation layer
where Arabidopsis fruit opening takes place. Consequently, ectopic production of 
auxin, specifically in valve margin cells, leads to a complete loss of proper
cell fate determination. The valve margin identity factor INDEHISCENT (IND) is
responsible for forming the auxin minimum by coordinating auxin efflux in
separation-layer cells. We propose that the simplicity of formation and
maintenance make local hormone minima particularly well suited to specify a small
number of cells such as the stripes at the valve margins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07875 
PMID: 19478783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):560-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08018.

Preserving noble gases in a convecting mantle.

Gonnermann HM(1), Mukhopadhyay S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005, USA.
helge@rice.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):520-1.

High (3)He/(4)He ratios sampled at many ocean islands are usually attributed to
an essentially undegassed lower-mantle reservoir with high (3)He concentrations. 
A large and mostly undegassed mantle reservoir is also required to balance the
Earth's (40)Ar budget, because only half of the (40)Ar produced from the
radioactive decay of (40)K is accounted for by the atmosphere and upper mantle.
However, geophysical and geochemical observations suggest slab subduction into
the lower mantle, implying that most or all of Earth's mantle should have been
processed by partial melting beneath mid-ocean ridges and hotspot volcanoes. This
should have left noble gases in both the upper and the lower mantle extensively
outgassed, contrary to expectations from (3)He/(4)He ratios and the Earth's
(40)Ar budget. Here we suggest a simple solution: recycling and mixing of
noble-gas-depleted slabs dilutes the concentrations of noble gases in the mantle,
thereby decreasing the rate of mantle degassing and leaving significant amounts
of noble gases in the processed mantle. As a result, even when the mass flux
across the 660-km seismic discontinuity is equivalent to approximately one
lower-mantle mass over the Earth's history, high (3)He contents, high (3)He/(4)He
ratios and (40)Ar concentrations high enough to satisfy the (40)Ar mass balance
of the Earth can be preserved in the lower mantle. The differences in (3)He/(4)He
ratios between mid-ocean-ridge basalts and ocean island basalts, as well as high 
concentrations of (3)He and (40)Ar in the mantle source of ocean island basalts, 
can be explained within the framework of different processing rates for the upper
and the lower mantle. Hence, to preserve primitive noble gas signatures, we find 
no need for hidden reservoirs or convective isolation of the lower mantle for any
length of time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08018 
PMID: 19478782 


528. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):556-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08031.

The effect of permafrost thaw on old carbon release and net carbon exchange from 
tundra.

Schuur EA(1), Vogel JG, Crummer KG, Lee H, Sickman JO, Osterkamp TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
tschuur@ufl.edu

Permafrost soils in boreal and Arctic ecosystems store almost twice as much
carbon as is currently present in the atmosphere. Permafrost thaw and the
microbial decomposition of previously frozen organic carbon is considered one of 
the most likely positive climate feedbacks from terrestrial ecosystems to the
atmosphere in a warmer world. The rate of carbon release from permafrost soils is
highly uncertain, but it is crucial for predicting the strength and timing of
this carbon-cycle feedback effect, and thus how important permafrost thaw will be
for climate change this century and beyond. Sustained transfers of carbon to the 
atmosphere that could cause a significant positive feedback to climate change
must come from old carbon, which forms the bulk of the permafrost carbon pool
that accumulated over thousands of years. Here we measure net ecosystem carbon
exchange and the radiocarbon age of ecosystem respiration in a tundra landscape
undergoing permafrost thaw to determine the influence of old carbon loss on
ecosystem carbon balance. We find that areas that thawed over the past 15 years
had 40 per cent more annual losses of old carbon than minimally thawed areas, but
had overall net ecosystem carbon uptake as increased plant growth offset these
losses. In contrast, areas that thawed decades earlier lost even more old carbon,
a 78 per cent increase over minimally thawed areas; this old carbon loss
contributed to overall net ecosystem carbon release despite increased plant
growth. Our data document significant losses of soil carbon with permafrost thaw 
that, over decadal timescales, overwhelms increased plant carbon uptake at rates 
that could make permafrost a large biospheric carbon source in a warmer world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08031 
PMID: 19478781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):546-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08005.

Synthesizing arbitrary quantum states in a superconducting resonator.

Hofheinz M(1), Wang H, Ansmann M, Bialczak RC, Lucero E, Neeley M, O'Connell AD, 
Sank D, Wenner J, Martinis JM, Cleland AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):516-7.

The superposition principle is a fundamental tenet of quantum mechanics. It
allows a quantum system to be 'in two places at the same time', because the
quantum state of a physical system can simultaneously include measurably
different physical states. The preparation and use of such superposed states
forms the basis of quantum computation and simulation. The creation of complex
superpositions in harmonic systems (such as the motional state of trapped ions,
microwave resonators or optical cavities) has presented a significant challenge
because it cannot be achieved with classical control signals. Here we demonstrate
the preparation and measurement of arbitrary quantum states in an electromagnetic
resonator, superposing states with different numbers of photons in a completely
controlled and deterministic manner. We synthesize the states using a
superconducting phase qubit to phase-coherently pump photons into the resonator, 
making use of an algorithm that generalizes a previously demonstrated method of
generating photon number (Fock) states in a resonator. We completely characterize
the resonator quantum state using Wigner tomography, which is equivalent to
measuring the resonator's full density matrix.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08005 
PMID: 19478780 


530. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):543-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08045.

The changing phases of extrasolar planet CoRoT-1b.

Snellen IA(1), de Mooij EJ, Albrecht S.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands. snellen@strw.leidenuniv.nl

Hot Jupiters are a class of extrasolar planet that orbit their parent stars at
very short distances. They are expected to be tidally locked, which can lead to a
large temperature difference between their daysides and nightsides. Infrared
observations of eclipsing systems have yielded dayside temperatures for a number 
of transiting planets. The day-night contrast of the transiting extrasolar planet
HD 189733b was 'mapped' using infrared observations. It is expected that the
contrast between the daysides and nightsides of hot Jupiters is much higher at
visual wavelengths, shorter than that of the peak emission, and could be further 
enhanced by reflected stellar light. Here we report the analysis of optical
photometric data obtained over 36 planetary orbits of the transiting hot Jupiter 
CoRoT-1b. The data are consistent with the nightside hemisphere of the planet
being entirely black, with the dayside flux dominating the optical phase curve.
This means that at optical wavelengths the planet's phase variation is just as we
see it for the interior planets in the Solar System. The data allow for only a
small fraction of reflected light, corresponding to a geometric albedo of <0.20.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08045 
PMID: 19478779 


531. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):540-2. doi: 10.1038/nature08007.

Broad line emission from iron K- and L-shell transitions in the active galaxy 1H 
0707-495.

Fabian AC(1), Zoghbi A, Ross RR, Uttley P, Gallo LC, Brandt WN, Blustin AJ,
Boller T, Caballero-Garcia MD, Larsson J, Miller JM, Miniutti G, Ponti G, Reis
RC, Reynolds CS, Tanaka Y, Young AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Astronomy, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HA, UK.
acf@ast.cam.ac.uk

Since the 1995 discovery of the broad iron K-line emission from the Seyfert
galaxy MCG-6-30-15 (ref. 1), broad iron K lines have been found in emission from 
several other Seyfert galaxies, from accreting stellar-mass black holes and even 
from accreting neutron stars. The iron K line is prominent in the reflection
spectrum created by the hard-X-ray continuum irradiating dense accreting matter. 
Relativistic distortion of the line makes it sensitive to the strong gravity and 
spin of the black hole. The accompanying iron L-line emission should be
detectable when the iron abundance is high. Here we report the presence of both
iron K and iron L emission in the spectrum of the narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxy 1H
0707-495. The bright iron L emission has enabled us to detect a reverberation lag
of about 30 s between the direct X-ray continuum and its reflection from matter
falling into the black hole. The observed reverberation timescale is comparable
to the light-crossing time of the innermost radii around a supermassive black
hole. The combination of spectral and timing data on 1H 0707-495 provides strong 
evidence that we are witnessing emission from matter within a gravitational
radius, or a fraction of a light minute, from the event horizon of a rapidly
spinning, massive black hole.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08007 
PMID: 19478778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):523-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08090.

Generation of transgenic non-human primates with germline transmission.

Sasaki E(1), Suemizu H, Shimada A, Hanazawa K, Oiwa R, Kamioka M, Tomioka I,
Sotomaru Y, Hirakawa R, Eto T, Shiozawa S, Maeda T, Ito M, Ito R, Kito C,
Yagihashi C, Kawai K, Miyoshi H, Tanioka Y, Tamaoki N, Habu S, Okano H, Nomura T.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 1430 Nogawa, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa 216-0001, Japan. esasaki@ciea.or.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):515-6.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is increasingly attractive for use as a 
non-human primate animal model in biomedical research. It has a relatively high
reproduction rate for a primate, making it potentially suitable for transgenic
modification. Although several attempts have been made to produce non-human
transgenic primates, transgene expression in the somatic tissues of live infants 
has not been demonstrated by objective analyses such as polymerase chain reaction
with reverse transcription or western blots. Here we show that the injection of a
self-inactivating lentiviral vector in sucrose solution into marmoset embryos
results in transgenic common marmosets that expressed the transgene in several
organs. Notably, we achieved germline transmission of the transgene, and the
transgenic offspring developed normally. The successful creation of transgenic
marmosets provides a new animal model for human disease that has the great
advantage of a close genetic relationship with humans. This model will be
valuable to many fields of biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08090 
PMID: 19478777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):E1; discussion E2. doi: 10.1038/nature08077.

Asteroids and andesites.

Arculus R(1), Campbell IH, McLennan SM, Taylor SR.

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Earth Sciences, Australian National University, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia. Ross.Taylor@anu.edu.au

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):179-82.

The production of terrestrial andesites in subduction zones is well established. 
Day et al. describe two examples of meteorites (GRA 06128 and GRA 06129) that
they claim to represent "an entirely new mode of generation of andesite crust
compositions" on asteroids; this suggestion has wide implications for the
generation of andesitic planetary crusts in general. However, here we show that
compositional data, particularly for the rare-earth elements (REEs) and other
lithophile elements, presented in their paper do not substantiate this claim. We 
conclude that existing mechanisms for andesite generation do not need revision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08077 
PMID: 19478728 


534. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):564-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07994. Epub 2009 May 3.

De novo establishment of wild-type song culture in the zebra finch.

Fehér O(1), Wang H, Saar S, Mitra PP, Tchernichovski O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, City College, City University of New York, New York
10031, USA. olcifeher@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):519-20.

Culture is typically viewed as consisting of traits inherited epigenetically,
through social learning. However, cultural diversity has species-typical
constraints, presumably of genetic origin. A celebrated, if contentious, example 
is whether a universal grammar constrains syntactic diversity in human languages.
Oscine songbirds exhibit song learning and provide biologically tractable models 
of culture: members of a species show individual variation in song and
geographically separated groups have local song dialects. Different species
exhibit distinct song cultures, suggestive of genetic constraints. Without such
constraints, innovations and copying errors should cause unbounded variation over
multiple generations or geographical distance, contrary to observations. Here we 
report an experiment designed to determine whether wild-type song culture might
emerge over multiple generations in an isolated colony founded by isolates, and, 
if so, how this might happen and what type of social environment is required.
Zebra finch isolates, unexposed to singing males during development, produce song
with characteristics that differ from the wild-type song found in laboratory or
natural colonies. In tutoring lineages starting from isolate founders, we
quantified alterations in song across tutoring generations in two social
environments: tutor-pupil pairs in sound-isolated chambers and an isolated
semi-natural colony. In both settings, juveniles imitated the isolate tutors but 
changed certain characteristics of the songs. These alterations accumulated over 
learning generations. Consequently, songs evolved towards the wild-type in three 
to four generations. Thus, species-typical song culture can appear de novo. Our
study has parallels with language change and evolution. In analogy to models in
quantitative genetics, we model song culture as a multigenerational phenotype
partly encoded genetically in an isolate founding population, influenced by
environmental variables and taking multiple generations to emerge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07994 
PMCID: PMC2693086
PMID: 19412161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):569-73. doi: 10.1038/nature07953. Epub 2009 Apr 28.

Autism genome-wide copy number variation reveals ubiquitin and neuronal genes.

Glessner JT(1), Wang K, Cai G, Korvatska O, Kim CE, Wood S, Zhang H, Estes A,
Brune CW, Bradfield JP, Imielinski M, Frackelton EC, Reichert J, Crawford EL,
Munson J, Sleiman PM, Chiavacci R, Annaiah K, Thomas K, Hou C, Glaberson W, Flory
J, Otieno F, Garris M, Soorya L, Klei L, Piven J, Meyer KJ, Anagnostou E, Sakurai
T, Game RM, Rudd DS, Zurawiecki D, McDougle CJ, Davis LK, Miller J, Posey DJ,
Michaels S, Kolevzon A, Silverman JM, Bernier R, Levy SE, Schultz RT, Dawson G,
Owley T, McMahon WM, Wassink TH, Sweeney JA, Nurnberger JI, Coon H, Sutcliffe JS,
Minshew NJ, Grant SF, Bucan M, Cook EH, Buxbaum JD, Devlin B, Schellenberg GD,
Hakonarson H.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are childhood neurodevelopmental disorders with 
complex genetic origins. Previous studies focusing on candidate genes or genomic 
regions have identified several copy number variations (CNVs) that are associated
with an increased risk of ASDs. Here we present the results from a whole-genome
CNV study on a cohort of 859 ASD cases and 1,409 healthy children of European
ancestry who were genotyped with approximately 550,000 single nucleotide
polymorphism markers, in an attempt to comprehensively identify CNVs conferring
susceptibility to ASDs. Positive findings were evaluated in an independent cohort
of 1,336 ASD cases and 1,110 controls of European ancestry. Besides previously
reported ASD candidate genes, such as NRXN1 (ref. 10) and CNTN4 (refs 11, 12),
several new susceptibility genes encoding neuronal cell-adhesion molecules,
including NLGN1 and ASTN2, were enriched with CNVs in ASD cases compared to
controls (P = 9.5 x 10(-3)). Furthermore, CNVs within or surrounding genes
involved in the ubiquitin pathways, including UBE3A, PARK2, RFWD2 and FBXO40,
were affected by CNVs not observed in controls (P = 3.3 x 10(-3)). We also
identified duplications 55 kilobases upstream of complementary DNA AK123120 (P = 
3.6 x 10(-6)). Although these variants may be individually rare, they target
genes involved in neuronal cell-adhesion or ubiquitin degradation, indicating
that these two important gene networks expressed within the central nervous
system may contribute to the genetic susceptibility of ASD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07953 
PMCID: PMC2925224
PMID: 19404257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):528-33. doi: 10.1038/nature07999. Epub 2009 Apr 28.

Common genetic variants on 5p14.1 associate with autism spectrum disorders.

Wang K(1), Zhang H, Ma D, Bucan M, Glessner JT, Abrahams BS, Salyakina D,
Imielinski M, Bradfield JP, Sleiman PM, Kim CE, Hou C, Frackelton E, Chiavacci R,
Takahashi N, Sakurai T, Rappaport E, Lajonchere CM, Munson J, Estes A, Korvatska 
O, Piven J, Sonnenblick LI, Alvarez Retuerto AI, Herman EI, Dong H, Hutman T,
Sigman M, Ozonoff S, Klin A, Owley T, Sweeney JA, Brune CW, Cantor RM, Bernier R,
Gilbert JR, Cuccaro ML, McMahon WM, Miller J, State MW, Wassink TH, Coon H, Levy 
SE, Schultz RT, Nurnberger JI, Haines JL, Sutcliffe JS, Cook EH, Minshew NJ,
Buxbaum JD, Dawson G, Grant SF, Geschwind DH, Pericak-Vance MA, Schellenberg GD, 
Hakonarson H.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19104, USA.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) represent a group of childhood
neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by deficits in
verbal communication, impairment of social interaction, and restricted and
repetitive patterns of interests and behaviour. To identify common genetic risk
factors underlying ASDs, here we present the results of genome-wide association
studies on a cohort of 780 families (3,101 subjects) with affected children, and 
a second cohort of 1,204 affected subjects and 6,491 control subjects, all of
whom were of European ancestry. Six single nucleotide polymorphisms between
cadherin 10 (CDH10) and cadherin 9 (CDH9)-two genes encoding neuronal
cell-adhesion molecules-revealed strong association signals, with the most
significant SNP being rs4307059 (P = 3.4 x 10(-8), odds ratio = 1.19). These
signals were replicated in two independent cohorts, with combined P values
ranging from 7.4 x 10(-8) to 2.1 x 10(-10). Our results implicate neuronal
cell-adhesion molecules in the pathogenesis of ASDs, and represent, to our
knowledge, the first demonstration of genome-wide significant association of
common variants with susceptibility to ASDs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07999 
PMCID: PMC2943511
PMID: 19404256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):592-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07984. Epub 2009 Apr 22.

Irreversibility of mitotic exit is the consequence of systems-level feedback.

López-Avilés S(1), Kapuy O, Novák B, Uhlmann F.

Author information: 
(1)Chromosome Segregation Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PX, UK.

The eukaryotic cell cycle comprises an ordered series of events, orchestrated by 
the activity of cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks), leading from chromosome
replication during S phase to their segregation in mitosis. The unidirectionality
of cell-cycle transitions is fundamental for the successful completion of this
cycle. It is thought that irrevocable proteolytic degradation of key cell-cycle
regulators makes cell-cycle transitions irreversible, thereby enforcing
directionality. Here we have experimentally examined the contribution of cyclin
proteolysis to the irreversibility of mitotic exit, the transition from high
mitotic Cdk activity back to low activity in G1. We show that forced cyclin
destruction in mitotic budding yeast cells efficiently drives mitotic exit
events. However, these remain reversible after termination of cyclin proteolysis,
with recovery of the mitotic state and cyclin levels. Mitotic exit becomes
irreversible only after longer periods of cyclin degradation, owing to activation
of a double-negative feedback loop involving the Cdk inhibitor Sic1 (refs 4, 5). 
Quantitative modelling suggests that feedback is required to maintain low Cdk
activity and to prevent cyclin resynthesis. Our findings demonstrate that the
unidirectionality of mitotic exit is not the consequence of proteolysis but of
systems-level feedback required to maintain the cell cycle in a new stable state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07984 
PMCID: PMC2817895
PMID: 19387440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):574-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08029.

Formyl peptide receptor-like proteins are a novel family of vomeronasal
chemosensors.

Rivière S(1), Challet L, Fluegge D, Spehr M, Rodriguez I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology and Animal Biology, and National Center of Competence
Frontiers in Genetics, University of Geneva, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):521-2.

Mammals rely heavily on olfaction to interact adequately with each other and with
their environment. They make use of seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled
receptors to identify odorants and pheromones. These receptors are present on
dendrites of olfactory sensory neurons located in the main olfactory or
vomeronasal sensory epithelia, and pertain to the odorant, trace amine-associated
receptor and vomeronasal type 1 (ref. 4) or 2 (refs 5-7) receptor superfamilies. 
Whether these four sensor classes represent the complete olfactory molecular
repertoire used by mammals to make sense of the outside world is unknown. Here we
report the expression of formyl peptide receptor-related genes by vomeronasal
sensory neurons, in multiple mammalian species. Similar to the four known
olfactory receptor gene classes, these genes encode seven-transmembrane proteins,
and are characterized by monogenic transcription and a punctate expression
pattern in the sensory neuroepithelium. In vitro expression of mouse formyl
peptide receptor-like 1, 3, 4, 6 and 7 provides sensitivity to
disease/inflammation-related ligands. Establishing an in situ approach that
combines whole-mount vomeronasal preparations with dendritic calcium imaging in
the intact neuroepithelium, we show neuronal responses to the same molecules,
which therefore represent a new class of vomeronasal agonists. Taken together,
these results suggest that formyl peptide receptor-like proteins have an
olfactory function associated with the identification of pathogens, or of
pathogenic states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08029 
PMID: 19387439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):596-600. doi: 10.1038/nature08030. Epub 2009 Apr
22.

NAADP mobilizes calcium from acidic organelles through two-pore channels.

Calcraft PJ(1), Ruas M, Pan Z, Cheng X, Arredouani A, Hao X, Tang J, Rietdorf K, 
Teboul L, Chuang KT, Lin P, Xiao R, Wang C, Zhu Y, Lin Y, Wyatt CN, Parrington J,
Ma J, Evans AM, Galione A, Zhu MX.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Integrative Physiology, College of Medicine and Veterinary
Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Hugh Robson Building, Edinburgh EH8 9XD,
Scotland, UK.

Ca(2+) mobilization from intracellular stores represents an important cell
signalling process that is regulated, in mammalian cells, by
inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP(3)), cyclic ADP ribose and nicotinic acid
adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP). InsP(3) and cyclic ADP ribose cause the
release of Ca(2+) from sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum stores by the
activation of InsP(3) and ryanodine receptors (InsP(3)Rs and RyRs). In contrast, 
the nature of the intracellular stores targeted by NAADP and the molecular
identity of the NAADP receptors remain controversial, although evidence indicates
that NAADP mobilizes Ca(2+) from lysosome-related acidic compartments. Here we
show that two-pore channels (TPCs) comprise a family of NAADP receptors, with
human TPC1 (also known as TPCN1) and chicken TPC3 (TPCN3) being expressed on
endosomal membranes, and human TPC2 (TPCN2) on lysosomal membranes when expressed
in HEK293 cells. Membranes enriched with TPC2 show high affinity NAADP binding,
and TPC2 underpins NAADP-induced Ca(2+) release from lysosome-related stores that
is subsequently amplified by Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release by InsP(3)Rs.
Responses to NAADP were abolished by disrupting the lysosomal proton gradient and
by ablating TPC2 expression, but were only attenuated by depleting endoplasmic
reticulum Ca(2+) stores or by blocking InsP(3)Rs. Thus, TPCs form NAADP receptors
that release Ca(2+) from acidic organelles, which can trigger further Ca(2+)
signals via sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum. TPCs therefore provide new
insights into the regulation and organization of Ca(2+) signals in animal cells, 
and will advance our understanding of the physiological role of NAADP.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08030 
PMCID: PMC2761823
PMID: 19387438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):587-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07940. Epub 2009 Apr 6.

Genetic analysis of radiation-induced changes in human gene expression.

Smirnov DA(1), Morley M, Shin E, Spielman RS, Cheung VG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, USA.

Humans are exposed to radiation through the environment and in medical settings. 
To deal with radiation-induced damage, cells mount complex responses that rely on
changes in gene expression. These gene expression responses differ greatly
between individuals and contribute to individual differences in response to
radiation. Here we identify regulators that influence expression levels of
radiation-responsive genes. We treated radiation-induced changes in gene
expression as quantitative phenotypes, and conducted genetic linkage and
association studies to map their regulators. For more than 1,200 of these
phenotypes there was significant evidence of linkage to specific chromosomal
regions. Nearly all of the regulators act in trans to influence the expression of
their target genes; there are very few cis-acting regulators. Some of the
trans-acting regulators are transcription factors, but others are genes that were
not known to have a regulatory function in radiation response. These results have
implications for our basic and clinical understanding of how human cells respond 
to radiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07940 
PMCID: PMC3005325
PMID: 19349959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):446-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07939.

Crystal structure of the sodium-potassium pump at 2.4 A resolution.

Shinoda T(1), Ogawa H, Cornelius F, Toyoshima C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, The University of Tokyo,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Sodium-potassium ATPase is an ATP-powered ion pump that establishes concentration
gradients for Na(+) and K(+) ions across the plasma membrane in all animal cells 
by pumping Na(+) from the cytoplasm and K(+) from the extracellular medium. Such 
gradients are used in many essential processes, notably for generating action
potentials. Na(+), K(+)-ATPase is a member of the P-type ATPases, which include
sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase and gastric H(+), K(+)-ATPase, among others,
and is the target of cardiac glycosides. Here we describe a crystal structure of 
this important ion pump, from shark rectal glands, consisting of alpha- and
beta-subunits and a regulatory FXYD protein, all of which are highly homologous
to human ones. The ATPase was fixed in a state analogous to E2.2K(+).P(i), in
which the ATPase has a high affinity for K(+) and still binds P(i), as in the
first crystal structure of pig kidney enzyme at 3.5 A resolution. Clearly
visualized now at 2.4 A resolution are coordination of K(+) and associated water 
molecules in the transmembrane binding sites and a phosphate analogue
(MgF(4)(2-)) in the phosphorylation site. The crystal structure shows that the
beta-subunit has a critical role in K(+) binding (although its involvement has
previously been suggested) and explains, at least partially, why the homologous
Ca(2+)-ATPase counter-transports H(+) rather than K(+), despite the coordinating 
residues being almost identical.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07939 
PMID: 19458722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature08015.

Microbial habitability of the Hadean Earth during the late heavy bombardment.

Abramov O(1), Mojzsis SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado, Department of Geological Sciences, 2200 Colorado
Avenue, UCB 399, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0399, USA. oleg.abramov@colorado.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):335-6.

Lunar rocks and impact melts, lunar and asteroidal meteorites, and an ancient
martian meteorite record thermal metamorphic events with ages that group around
and/or do not exceed 3.9 Gyr. That such a diverse suite of solar system materials
share this feature is interpreted to be the result of a post-primary-accretion
cataclysmic spike in the number of impacts commonly referred to as the late heavy
bombardment (LHB). Despite its obvious significance to the preservation of crust 
and the survivability of an emergent biosphere, the thermal effects of this
bombardment on the young Earth remain poorly constrained. Here we report
numerical models constructed to probe the degree of thermal metamorphism in the
crust in the effort to recreate the effect of the LHB on the Earth as a whole;
outputs were used to assess habitable volumes of crust for a possible
near-surface and subsurface primordial microbial biosphere. Our analysis shows
that there is no plausible situation in which the habitable zone was fully
sterilized on Earth, at least since the termination of primary accretion of the
planets and the postulated impact origin of the Moon. Our results explain the
root location of hyperthermophilic bacteria in the phylogenetic tree for 16S
small-subunit ribosomal RNA, and bode well for the persistence of microbial
biospheres even on planetary bodies strongly reworked by impacts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08015 
PMID: 19458721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):414-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08016.

Self-assembly of DNA into nanoscale three-dimensional shapes.

Douglas SM(1), Dietz H, Liedl T, Högberg B, Graf F, Shih WM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):331-2.

Molecular self-assembly offers a 'bottom-up' route to fabrication with
subnanometre precision of complex structures from simple components. DNA has
proved to be a versatile building block for programmable construction of such
objects, including two-dimensional crystals, nanotubes, and three-dimensional
wireframe nanopolyhedra. Templated self-assembly of DNA into custom
two-dimensional shapes on the megadalton scale has been demonstrated previously
with a multiple-kilobase 'scaffold strand' that is folded into a flat array of
antiparallel helices by interactions with hundreds of oligonucleotide 'staple
strands'. Here we extend this method to building custom three-dimensional shapes 
formed as pleated layers of helices constrained to a honeycomb lattice. We
demonstrate the design and assembly of nanostructures approximating six
shapes-monolith, square nut, railed bridge, genie bottle, stacked cross, slotted 
cross-with precisely controlled dimensions ranging from 10 to 100 nm. We also
show hierarchical assembly of structures such as homomultimeric linear tracks and
heterotrimeric wireframe icosahedra. Proper assembly requires week-long folding
times and calibrated monovalent and divalent cation concentrations. We anticipate
that our strategy for self-assembling custom three-dimensional shapes will
provide a general route to the manufacture of sophisticated devices bearing
features on the nanometre scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08016 
PMCID: PMC2688462
PMID: 19458720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):410-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08053.

Five-dimensional optical recording mediated by surface plasmons in gold nanorods.

Zijlstra P(1), Chon JW, Gu M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Micro-Photonics, Faculty of Engineering and Industrial Sciences,
Swinburne University of Technology, PO Box 218, Hawthorn, Victoria 3122,
Australia.

Multiplexed optical recording provides an unparalleled approach to increasing the
information density beyond 10(12) bits per cm(3) (1 Tbit cm(-3)) by storing
multiple, individually addressable patterns within the same recording volume.
Although wavelength, polarization and spatial dimensions have all been exploited 
for multiplexing, these approaches have never been integrated into a single
technique that could ultimately increase the information capacity by orders of
magnitude. The major hurdle is the lack of a suitable recording medium that is
extremely selective in the domains of wavelength and polarization and in the
three spatial domains, so as to provide orthogonality in all five dimensions.
Here we show true five-dimensional optical recording by exploiting the unique
properties of the longitudinal surface plasmon resonance (SPR) of gold nanorods. 
The longitudinal SPR exhibits an excellent wavelength and polarization
sensitivity, whereas the distinct energy threshold required for the photothermal 
recording mechanism provides the axial selectivity. The recordings were detected 
using longitudinal SPR-mediated two-photon luminescence, which we demonstrate to 
possess an enhanced wavelength and angular selectivity compared to conventional
linear detection mechanisms. Combined with the high cross-section of two-photon
luminescence, this enabled non-destructive, crosstalk-free readout. This
technique can be immediately applied to optical patterning, encryption and data
storage, where higher data densities are pursued.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08053 
PMID: 19458719 


545. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):405-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08008.

Breakdown of the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer ground state at a quantum phase
transition.

Jaramillo R(1), Feng Y, Lang JC, Islam Z, Srajer G, Littlewood PB, McWhan DB,
Rosenbaum TF.

Author information: 
(1)The James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Advances in solid-state and atomic physics are exposing the hidden relationships 
between conventional and exotic states of quantum matter. Prominent examples
include the discovery of exotic superconductivity proximate to conventional spin 
and charge order, and the crossover from long-range phase order to preformed
pairs achieved in gases of cold fermions and inferred for copper oxide
superconductors. The unifying theme is that incompatible ground states can be
connected by quantum phase transitions. Quantum fluctuations about the transition
are manifestations of the competition between qualitatively distinct organizing
principles, such as a long-wavelength density wave and a short-coherence-length
condensate. They may even give rise to 'protected' phases, like
fluctuation-mediated superconductivity that survives only in the vicinity of an
antiferromagnetic quantum critical point. However, few model systems that
demonstrate continuous quantum phase transitions have been identified, and the
complex nature of many systems of interest hinders efforts to more fully
understand correlations and fluctuations near a zero-temperature instability.
Here we report the suppression of magnetism by hydrostatic pressure in elemental 
chromium, a simple cubic metal that demonstrates a subtle form of itinerant
antiferromagnetism formally equivalent to the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS)
state in conventional superconductors. By directly measuring the associated
charge order in a diamond anvil cell at low temperatures, we find a phase
transition at pressures of approximately 10 GPa driven by fluctuations that
destroy the BCS-like state but preserve the strong magnetic interaction between
itinerant electrons and holes. Chromium is unique among stoichiometric magnetic
metals studied so far in that the quantum phase transition is continuous,
allowing experimental access to the quantum singularity and a direct probe of the
competition between conventional and exotic order in a theoretically tractable
material.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08008 
PMID: 19458718 


546. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):401-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07978.

Stability against freezing of aqueous solutions on early Mars.

Fairén AG(1), Davila AF, Gago-Duport L, Amils R, McKay CP.

Author information: 
(1)Space Science and Astrobiology Division, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett
Field, California 94035, USA. alberto.g.fairen@nasa.gov

Many features of the Martian landscape are thought to have been formed by liquid 
water flow and water-related mineralogies on the surface of Mars are widespread
and abundant. Several lines of evidence, however, suggest that Mars has been cold
with mean global temperatures well below the freezing point of pure water.
Martian climate modellers considering a combination of greenhouse gases at a
range of partial pressures find it challenging to simulate global mean Martian
surface temperatures above 273 K, and local thermal sources cannot account for
the widespread distribution of hydrated and evaporitic minerals throughout the
Martian landscape. Solutes could depress the melting point of water in a frozen
Martian environment, providing a plausible solution to the early Mars climate
paradox. Here we model the freezing and evaporation processes of Martian fluids
with a composition resulting from the weathering of basalts, as reflected in the 
chemical compositions at Mars landing sites. Our results show that a significant 
fraction of weathering fluids loaded with Si, Fe, S, Mg, Ca, Cl, Na, K and Al
remain in the liquid state at temperatures well below 273 K. We tested our model 
by analysing the mineralogies yielded by the evolution of the solutions: the
resulting mineral assemblages are analogous to those actually identified on the
Martian surface. This stability against freezing of Martian fluids can explain
saline liquid water activity on the surface of Mars at mean global temperatures
well below 273 K.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07978 
PMID: 19458717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):398-400. doi: 10.1038/nature08022.

Non-radial oscillation modes with long lifetimes in giant stars.

De Ridder J(1), Barban C, Baudin F, Carrier F, Hatzes AP, Hekker S, Kallinger T, 
Weiss WW, Baglin A, Auvergne M, Samadi R, Barge P, Deleuil M.

Author information: 
(1)Instituut voor Sterrenkunde, K. U. Leuven, Celestijnenlaan 200D, B-3001
Leuven, Belgium. joris@ster.kuleuven.ac.be

Towards the end of their lives, stars like the Sun greatly expand to become red
giant stars. Such evolved stars could provide stringent tests of stellar theory, 
as many uncertainties of the internal stellar structure accumulate with age.
Important examples are convective overshooting and rotational mixing during the
central hydrogen-burning phase, which determine the mass of the helium core, but 
which are not well understood. In principle, analysis of radial and non-radial
stellar oscillations can be used to constrain the mass of the helium core.
Although all giants are expected to oscillate, it has hitherto been unclear
whether non-radial modes are observable at all in red giants, or whether the
oscillation modes have a short or a long mode lifetime, which determines the
observational precision of the frequencies. Here we report the presence of radial
and non-radial oscillations in more than 300 giant stars. For at least some of
the giants, the mode lifetimes are of the order of a month. We observe giant
stars with equally spaced frequency peaks in the Fourier spectrum of the time
series, as well as giants for which the spectrum seems to be more complex. No
satisfactory theoretical explanation currently exists for our observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08022 
PMID: 19458716 


548. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):393-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07938.

The origin of the electrostatic perturbation in acetoacetate decarboxylase.

Ho MC(1), Ménétret JF, Tsuruta H, Allen KN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, Massachusetts 02118-2394, USA.

Acetoacetate decarboxylase (AADase) has long been cited as the prototypical
example of the marked shifts in the pK(a) values of ionizable groups that can
occur in an enzyme active site. In 1966, it was hypothesized that in AADase the
origin of the large pK(a) perturbation (-4.5 log units) observed in the
nucleophilic Lys 115 results from the proximity of Lys 116, marking the first
proposal of microenvironment effects in enzymology. The electrostatic
perturbation hypothesis has been demonstrated in a number of enzymes, but never
for the enzyme that inspired its conception, owing to the lack of a
three-dimensional structure. Here we present the X-ray crystal structures of
AADase and of the enamine adduct with the substrate analogue 2,4-pentanedione.
Surprisingly, the shift of the pK(a) of Lys 115 is not due to the proximity of
Lys 116, the side chain of which is oriented away from the active site. Instead, 
Lys 116 participates in the structural anchoring of Lys 115 in a long,
hydrophobic funnel provided by the novel fold of the enzyme. Thus, AADase
perturbs the pK(a) of the nucleophile by means of a desolvation effect by
placement of the side chain into the protein core while enforcing the proximity
of polar residues, which facilitate decarboxylation through electrostatic and
steric effects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07938 
PMID: 19458715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):379-85. doi: 10.1038/nature08147.

Emerging roles for lipids in shaping membrane-protein function.

Phillips R(1), Ursell T, Wiggins P, Sens P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. phillips@pboc.caltech.edu

Studies of membrane proteins have revealed a direct link between the lipid
environment and the structure and function of some of these proteins. Although
some of these effects involve specific chemical interactions between lipids and
protein residues, many can be understood in terms of protein-induced
perturbations to the membrane shape. The free-energy cost of such perturbations
can be estimated quantitatively, and measurements of channel gating in model
systems of membrane proteins with their lipid partners are now confirming
predictions of simple models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08147 
PMCID: PMC3169427
PMID: 19458714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):371-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08146.

How intramembrane proteases bury hydrolytic reactions in the membrane.

Erez E(1), Fass D, Bibi E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.

Intramembrane proteolysis is increasingly seen as a regulatory step in a range of
diverse processes, including development, organelle shaping, metabolism,
pathogenicity and degenerative disease. Initial scepticism over the existence of 
intramembrane proteases was soon replaced by intense exploration of their
catalytic mechanisms, substrate specificities, regulation and structures. Crystal
structures of metal-dependent and serine intramembrane proteases have revealed
active sites embedded in the plane of the membrane but accessible by water, a
requirement for hydrolytic reactions. Efforts to understand how these
membrane-bound proteases carry out their reactions have started to yield results.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08146 
PMID: 19458713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):364-70. doi: 10.1038/nature08145.

Torque generation and elastic power transmission in the rotary F(O)F(1)-ATPase.

Junge W(1), Sielaff H, Engelbrecht S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, University of Osnabrück, Barbarastrasse 11, 49076
Osnabrück, Germany. junge@uos.de

Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the universal fuel of the cell, is synthesized from
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P(i)) by 'ATP synthase'
(F(O)F(1)-ATPase). During respiration or photosynthesis, an electrochemical
potential difference of protons is set up across the respective membranes. This
powers the enzyme's electrical rotary nanomotor (F(O)), which drives the chemical
nanomotor (F(1)) by elastic mechanical-power transmission, producing ATP with
high kinetic efficiency. Attempts to understand in detail the mechanisms of
torque generation in this simple and robust system have been both aided and
complicated by a wealth of sometimes conflicting data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08145 
PMID: 19458712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):356-63. doi: 10.1038/nature08144.

The structure and function of G-protein-coupled receptors.

Rosenbaum DM(1), Rasmussen SG, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 279 Campus Drive, Palo Alto, California 94305, USA.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) mediate most of our physiological responses
to hormones, neurotransmitters and environmental stimulants, and so have great
potential as therapeutic targets for a broad spectrum of diseases. They are also 
fascinating molecules from the perspective of membrane-protein structure and
biology. Great progress has been made over the past three decades in
understanding diverse GPCRs, from pharmacology to functional characterization in 
vivo. Recent high-resolution structural studies have provided insights into the
molecular mechanisms of GPCR activation and constitutive activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08144 
PMCID: PMC3967846
PMID: 19458711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):347-55. doi: 10.1038/nature08143.

Unlocking the molecular secrets of sodium-coupled transporters.

Krishnamurthy H(1), Piscitelli CL, Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Oregon 97239, USA.

Transmembrane sodium-ion gradients provide energy that can be harnessed by
'secondary transporters' to drive the translocation of solute molecules into a
cell. Decades of study have shown that such sodium-coupled transporters are
involved in many physiological processes, making them targets for the treatment
of numerous diseases. Within the past year, crystal structures of several
sodium-coupled transporters from different families have been reported, showing a
remarkable structural conservation between functionally unrelated transporters.
These atomic-resolution structures are revealing the mechanism of the
sodium-coupled transport of solutes across cellular membranes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08143 
PMID: 19458710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):344-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08142.

Biophysical dissection of membrane proteins.

White SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, and Center for Biomembrane Systems,
University of California, Irvine, California 92697, USA. stephen.white@uci.edu

The first atomic-resolution structure of a membrane protein was solved in 1985.
Twenty-four years and more than 180 unique structures later, what have we have
learned? An examination of the atomic details of several diverse membrane
proteins reveals some remarkable biophysical features and suggests that we can
expect to achieve much more in the decades to come.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08142 
PMID: 19458709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):387-392. doi: 10.1038/nature08040. Epub 2009 Apr
29.

Bmi1 regulates mitochondrial function and the DNA damage response pathway.

Liu J(#)(1), Cao L(#)(1), Chen J(2), Song S(1), Lee IH(1), Quijano C(1), Liu
H(1), Keyvanfar K(2), Chen H(1), Cao LY(1), Ahn BH(1), Kumar NG(1)(3), Rovira
II(1), Xu XL(4), van Lohuizen M(5), Motoyama N(6), Deng CX(4), Finkel T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Medicine Branch, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)Hematology Branch, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, NIH Research Scholar Program, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.
(4)Genetics of Development and Disease Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and
Digestive and Kidney Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA.
(5)Division of Molecular Genetics, Netherlands Cancer Institute and Centre for
Biomedical Genetics, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Geriatric Medicine, National Institute for Longevity Sciences
National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology 36-3, Gengo, Morioka, Obu, Aichi
474-8522, Japan.
(#)Contributed equally

Mice deficient in the Polycomb repressor Bmi1 develop numerous abnormalities
including a severe defect in stem cell self-renewal, alterations in thymocyte
maturation and a shortened lifespan. Previous work has implicated de-repression
of the Ink4a/Arf (also known as Cdkn2a) locus as mediating many of the aspects of
the Bmi1(-/-) phenotype. Here we demonstrate that cells derived from Bmi1(-/-)
mice also have impaired mitochondrial function, a marked increase in the
intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species and subsequent engagement of the 
DNA damage response pathway. Furthermore, many of the deficiencies normally
observed in Bmi1(-/-) mice improve after either pharmacological treatment with
the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine or genetic disruption of the DNA damage response
pathway by Chk2 (also known as Chek2) deletion. These results demonstrate that
Bmi1 has an unexpected role in maintaining mitochondrial function and redox
homeostasis and indicate that the Polycomb family of proteins can coordinately
regulate cellular metabolism with stem and progenitor cell function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08040 
PMCID: PMC4721521
PMID: 19404261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):437-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07992. Epub 2009 Apr 29.

Precise genome modification in the crop species Zea mays using zinc-finger
nucleases.

Shukla VK(1), Doyon Y, Miller JC, DeKelver RC, Moehle EA, Worden SE, Mitchell JC,
Arnold NL, Gopalan S, Meng X, Choi VM, Rock JM, Wu YY, Katibah GE, Zhifang G,
McCaskill D, Simpson MA, Blakeslee B, Greenwalt SA, Butler HJ, Hinkley SJ, Zhang 
L, Rebar EJ, Gregory PD, Urnov FD.

Author information: 
(1)Dow AgroSciences, 9330 Zionsville Road, Indianapolis, Indiana 46268, USA.
vkshukla@dow.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):337-8.

Agricultural biotechnology is limited by the inefficiencies of conventional
random mutagenesis and transgenesis. Because targeted genome modification in
plants has been intractable, plant trait engineering remains a laborious,
time-consuming and unpredictable undertaking. Here we report a broadly
applicable, versatile solution to this problem: the use of designed zinc-finger
nucleases (ZFNs) that induce a double-stranded break at their target locus. We
describe the use of ZFNs to modify endogenous loci in plants of the crop species 
Zea mays. We show that simultaneous expression of ZFNs and delivery of a simple
heterologous donor molecule leads to precise targeted addition of an
herbicide-tolerance gene at the intended locus in a significant number of
isolated events. ZFN-modified maize plants faithfully transmit these genetic
changes to the next generation. Insertional disruption of one target locus, IPK1,
results in both herbicide tolerance and the expected alteration of the inositol
phosphate profile in developing seeds. ZFNs can be used in any plant species
amenable to DNA delivery; our results therefore establish a new strategy for
plant genetic manipulation in basic science and agricultural applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07992 
PMID: 19404259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):442-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07845. Epub 2009 Apr 29.

High-frequency modification of plant genes using engineered zinc-finger
nucleases.

Townsend JA(1), Wright DA, Winfrey RJ, Fu F, Maeder ML, Joung JK, Voytas DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Development & Cell Biology, Iowa State University,
Ames, Iowa 50011, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):337-8.

An efficient method for making directed DNA sequence modifications to plant genes
(gene targeting) is at present lacking, thereby frustrating efforts to dissect
plant gene function and engineer crop plants that better meet the world's
burgeoning need for food, fibre and fuel. Zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs)-enzymes
engineered to create DNA double-strand breaks at specific loci-are potent
stimulators of gene targeting; for example, they can be used to precisely modify 
engineered reporter genes in plants. Here we demonstrate high-frequency
ZFN-stimulated gene targeting at endogenous plant genes, namely the tobacco
acetolactate synthase genes (ALS SuRA and SuRB), for which specific mutations are
known to confer resistance to imidazolinone and sulphonylurea herbicides.
Herbicide-resistance mutations were introduced into SuR loci by ZFN-mediated gene
targeting at frequencies exceeding 2% of transformed cells for mutations as far
as 1.3 kilobases from the ZFN cleavage site. More than 40% of recombinant plants 
had modifications in multiple SuR alleles. The observed high frequency of gene
targeting indicates that it is now possible to efficiently make targeted sequence
changes in endogenous plant genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07845 
PMCID: PMC2743854
PMID: 19404258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):455-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07954. Epub 2009 Apr 19.

GlcNAcylation of a histone methyltransferase in retinoic-acid-induced
granulopoiesis.

Fujiki R(1), Chikanishi T, Hashiba W, Ito H, Takada I, Roeder RG, Kitagawa H,
Kato S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1
Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):574.

The post-translational modifications of histone tails generate a 'histone code'
that defines local and global chromatin states. The resultant regulation of gene 
function is thought to govern cell fate, proliferation and differentiation.
Reversible histone modifications such as methylation are under mutual controls to
organize chromosomal events. Among the histone modifications, methylation of
specific lysine and arginine residues seems to be critical for chromatin
configuration and control of gene expression. Methylation of histone H3 lysine 4 
(H3K4) changes chromatin into a transcriptionally active state. Reversible
modification of proteins by beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) in response to
serum glucose levels regulates diverse cellular processes. However, the
epigenetic impact of protein GlcNAcylation is unknown. Here we report that
nuclear GlcNAcylation of a histone lysine methyltransferase (HKMT), MLL5, by
O-GlcNAc transferase facilitates retinoic-acid-induced granulopoiesis in human
HL60 promyelocytes through methylation of H3K4. MLL5 is biochemically identified 
in a GlcNAcylation-dependent multi-subunit complex associating with nuclear
retinoic acid receptor RARalpha (also known as RARA), serving as a mono- and
di-methyl transferase to H3K4. GlcNAcylation at Thr 440 in the MLL5 SET domain
evokes its H3K4 HKMT activity and co-activates RARalpha in target gene promoters.
Increased nuclear GlcNAcylation by means of O-GlcNAc transferase potentiates
retinoic-acid-induced HL60 granulopoiesis and restores the retinoic acid response
in the retinoic-acid-resistant HL60-R2 cell line. Thus, nuclear MLL5
GlcNAcylation triggers cell lineage determination of HL60 through activation of
its HKMT activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07954 
PMID: 19377461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):423-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07988. Epub 2009 Apr 15.

PEP1 regulates perennial flowering in Arabis alpina.

Wang R(1), Farrona S, Vincent C, Joecker A, Schoof H, Turck F, Alonso-Blanco C,
Coupland G, Albani MC.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research, Carl von Linne Weg 10,
D-50829 Cologne, Germany.

Annual plants complete their life cycle in one year and initiate flowering only
once, whereas perennials live for many years and flower repeatedly. How
perennials undergo repeated cycles of vegetative growth and flowering that are
synchronized to the changing seasons has not been extensively studied. Flowering 
is best understood in annual Arabidopsis thaliana, but many closely related
species, such as Arabis alpina, are perennials. We identified the A. alpina
mutant perpetual flowering 1 (pep1), and showed that PEP1 contributes to three
perennial traits. It limits the duration of flowering, facilitating a return to
vegetative development, prevents some branches from undergoing the floral
transition allowing polycarpic growth habit, and confers a flowering response to 
winter temperatures that restricts flowering to spring. Here we show that PEP1 is
the orthologue of the A. thaliana gene FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). The FLC
transcription factor inhibits flowering until A. thaliana is exposed to winter
temperatures, which trigger chromatin modifications that stably repress FLC
transcription. In contrast, PEP1 is only transiently repressed by low
temperatures, causing repeated seasonal cycles of repression and activation of
PEP1 transcription that allow it to carry out functions characteristic of the
cyclical life history of perennials. The patterns of chromatin modifications at
FLC and PEP1 differ correlating with their distinct expression patterns. Thus we 
describe a critical mechanism by which flowering regulation differs between
related perennial and annual species, and propose that differences in chromatin
regulation contribute to this variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07988 
PMID: 19369938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):428-32. doi: 10.1038/nature08012. Epub 2009 Apr 12.

Non-genetic origins of cell-to-cell variability in TRAIL-induced apoptosis.

Spencer SL(1), Gaudet S, Albeck JG, Burke JM, Sorger PK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell Decision Processes, Department of Systems Biology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2009 May 15;34(3):257-8.
    Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):334-5.

In microorganisms, noise in gene expression gives rise to cell-to-cell
variability in protein concentrations. In mammalian cells, protein levels also
vary and individual cells differ widely in their responsiveness to uniform
physiological stimuli. In the case of apoptosis mediated by TRAIL (tumour
necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) it is common for some
cells in a clonal population to die while others survive-a striking divergence in
cell fate. Among cells that die, the time between TRAIL exposure and caspase
activation is highly variable. Here we image sister cells expressing reporters of
caspase activation and mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization after
exposure to TRAIL. We show that naturally occurring differences in the levels or 
states of proteins regulating receptor-mediated apoptosis are the primary causes 
of cell-to-cell variability in the timing and probability of death in human cell 
lines. Protein state is transmitted from mother to daughter, giving rise to
transient heritability in fate, but protein synthesis promotes rapid divergence
so that sister cells soon become no more similar to each other than pairs of
cells chosen at random. Our results have implications for understanding
'fractional killing' of tumour cells after exposure to chemotherapy, and for
variability in mammalian signal transduction in general.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08012 
PMCID: PMC2858974
PMID: 19363473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):460-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07955. Epub 2009 Apr 8.

CtIP-BRCA1 modulates the choice of DNA double-strand-break repair pathway
throughout the cell cycle.

Yun MH(1), Hiom K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Protein and Nucleic Acid Chemistry, MRC Laboratory of Molecular
Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

The repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) is tightly regulated during the
cell cycle. In G1 phase, the absence of a sister chromatid means that repair of
DSBs occurs through non-homologous end-joining or microhomology-mediated
end-joining (MMEJ). These pathways often involve loss of DNA sequences at the
break site and are therefore error-prone. In late S and G2 phases, even though
DNA end-joining pathways remain functional, there is an increase in repair of
DSBs by homologous recombination, which is mostly error-free. Consequently, the
relative contribution of these different pathways to DSB repair in the cell cycle
has a large influence on the maintenance of genetic integrity. It has remained
unknown how DSBs are directed for repair by different, potentially competing,
repair pathways. Here we identify a role for CtIP (also known as RBBP8) in this
process in the avian B-cell line DT40. We establish that CtIP is required not
only for repair of DSBs by homologous recombination in S/G2 phase but also for
MMEJ in G1. The function of CtIP in homologous recombination, but not MMEJ, is
dependent on the phosphorylation of serine residue 327 and recruitment of BRCA1. 
Cells expressing CtIP protein that cannot be phosphorylated at serine 327 are
specifically defective in homologous recombination and have a decreased level of 
single-stranded DNA after DNA damage, whereas MMEJ remains unaffected. Our data
support a model in which phosphorylation of serine 327 of CtIP as cells enter S
phase and the recruitment of BRCA1 functions as a molecular switch to shift the
balance of DSB repair from error-prone DNA end-joining to error-free homologous
recombination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07955 
PMCID: PMC2857324
PMID: 19357644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):433-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07965. Epub 2009 Apr 1.

Syk kinase signalling couples to the Nlrp3 inflammasome for anti-fungal host
defence.

Gross O(1), Poeck H, Bscheider M, Dostert C, Hannesschläger N, Endres S, Hartmann
G, Tardivel A, Schweighoffer E, Tybulewicz V, Mocsai A, Tschopp J, Ruland J.

Author information: 
(1)III. Medizinische Klinik, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische Universität
München, Ismaninger Str. 22, 81675 Munich, Germany.

Fungal infections represent a serious threat, particularly in immunocompromised
patients. Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is a key pro-inflammatory factor in innate
antifungal immunity. The mechanism by which the mammalian immune system regulates
IL-1beta production after fungal recognition is unclear. Two signals are
generally required for IL-1beta production: an NF-kappaB-dependent signal that
induces the synthesis of pro-IL-1beta (p35), and a second signal that triggers
proteolytic pro-IL-1beta processing to produce bioactive IL-1beta (p17) via
Caspase-1-containing multiprotein complexes called inflammasomes. Here we
demonstrate that the tyrosine kinase Syk, operating downstream of several
immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)-coupled fungal pattern
recognition receptors, controls both pro-IL-1beta synthesis and inflammasome
activation after cell stimulation with Candida albicans. Whereas Syk signalling
for pro-IL-1beta synthesis selectively uses the Card9 pathway, inflammasome
activation by the fungus involves reactive oxygen species production and
potassium efflux. Genetic deletion or pharmalogical inhibition of Syk selectively
abrogated inflammasome activation by C. albicans but not by inflammasome
activators such as Salmonella typhimurium or the bacterial toxin nigericin. Nlrp3
(also known as NALP3) was identified as the critical NOD-like receptor family
member that transduces the fungal recognition signal to the inflammasome adaptor 
Asc (Pycard) for Caspase-1 (Casp1) activation and pro-IL-1beta processing.
Consistent with an essential role for Nlrp3 inflammasomes in antifungal immunity,
we show that Nlrp3-deficient mice are hypersusceptible to Candida albicans
infection. Thus, our results demonstrate the molecular basis for IL-1beta
production after fungal infection and identify a crucial function for the Nlrp3
inflammasome in mammalian host defence in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07965 
PMID: 19339971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2009 May 21;459(7245):451-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07923. Epub 2009 Apr 1.

Detection and trapping of intermediate states priming nicotinic receptor channel 
opening.

Mukhtasimova N(1), Lee WY, Wang HL, Sine SM.

Author information: 
(1)Receptor Biology Laboratory, Department of Physiology and Biomedical
Engineering, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

In the course of synaptic transmission in the brain and periphery, acetylcholine 
receptors (AChRs) rapidly transduce a chemical signal into an electrical impulse.
The speed of transduction is facilitated by rapid ACh association and
dissociation, suggesting a binding site relatively non-selective for small
cations. Selective transduction has been thought to originate from the ability of
ACh, over that of other organic cations, to trigger the subsequent
channel-opening step. However, transitions to and from the open state were shown 
to be similar for agonists with widely different efficacies. By studying mutant
AChRs, we show here that the ultimate closed-to-open transition is
agonist-independent and preceded by two primed closed states; the first primed
state elicits brief openings, whereas the second elicits long-lived openings.
Long-lived openings and the associated primed state are detected in the absence
and presence of an agonist, and exhibit the same kinetic signatures under both
conditions. By covalently locking the agonist-binding sites in the bound
conformation, we find that each site initiates a priming step. Thus, a change in 
binding-site conformation primes the AChR for channel opening in a process that
enables selective activation by ACh while maximizing the speed and efficiency of 
the biological response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07923 
PMCID: PMC2712348
PMID: 19339970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):274-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08041.

qiRNA is a new type of small interfering RNA induced by DNA damage.

Lee HC(1), Chang SS, Choudhary S, Aalto AP, Maiti M, Bamford DH, Liu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

RNA interference pathways use small RNAs to mediate gene silencing in eukaryotes.
In addition to small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs, several types of
endogenously produced small RNAs have important roles in gene regulation, germ
cell maintenance and transposon silencing. The production of some of these RNAs
requires the synthesis of aberrant RNAs (aRNAs) or pre-siRNAs, which are
specifically recognized by RNA-dependent RNA polymerases to make double-stranded 
RNA. The mechanism for aRNA synthesis and recognition is largely unknown. Here we
show that DNA damage induces the expression of the Argonaute protein QDE-2 and a 
new class of small RNAs in the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa. This class
of small RNAs, known as qiRNAs because of their interaction with QDE-2, are about
20-21 nucleotides long (several nucleotides shorter than Neurospora siRNAs), with
a strong preference for uridine at the 5' end, and originate mostly from the
ribosomal DNA locus. The production of qiRNAs requires the RNA-dependent RNA
polymerase QDE-1, the Werner and Bloom RecQ DNA helicase homologue QDE-3 and
dicers. qiRNA biogenesis also requires DNA-damage-induced aRNAs as precursors, a 
process that is dependent on both QDE-1 and QDE-3. Notably, our results suggest
that QDE-1 is the DNA-dependent RNA polymerase that produces aRNAs. Furthermore, 
the Neurospora RNA interference mutants show increased sensitivity to DNA damage,
suggesting a role for qiRNAs in the DNA-damage response by inhibiting protein
translation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08041 
PMCID: PMC2859615
PMID: 19444217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):266-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08055.

Metatranscriptomics reveals unique microbial small RNAs in the ocean's water
column.

Shi Y(1), Tyson GW, DeLong EF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Microbial gene expression in the environment has recently been assessed via
pyrosequencing of total RNA extracted directly from natural microbial
assemblages. Several such 'metatranscriptomic' studies have reported that many
complementary DNA sequences shared no significant homology with known peptide
sequences, and so might represent transcripts from uncharacterized proteins. Here
we report that a large fraction of cDNA sequences detected in microbial
metatranscriptomic data sets are comprised of well-known small RNAs (sRNAs), as
well as new groups of previously unrecognized putative sRNAs (psRNAs). These
psRNAs mapped specifically to intergenic regions of microbial genomes recovered
from similar habitats, displayed characteristic conserved secondary structures
and were frequently flanked by genes that indicated potential regulatory
functions. Depth-dependent variation of psRNAs generally reflected known depth
distributions of broad taxonomic groups, but fine-scale differences in the psRNAs
within closely related populations indicated potential roles in niche adaptation.
Genome-specific mapping of a subset of psRNAs derived from predominant planktonic
species such as Pelagibacter revealed recently discovered as well as potentially 
new regulatory elements. Our analyses show that metatranscriptomic data sets can 
reveal new information about the diversity, taxonomic distribution and abundance 
of sRNAs in naturally occurring microbial communities, and indicate their
involvement in environmentally relevant processes including carbon metabolism and
nutrient acquisition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08055 
PMID: 19444216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):248-52. doi: 10.1038/nature07995.

A female figurine from the basal Aurignacian of Hohle Fels Cave in southwestern
Germany.

Conard NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung für Altere Urgeschichte und Quartärökologie, Institut für Ur- und
Frühgeschichte und Archäologie des Mittelalters, Universität Tübingen, Schloss
Hohentübingen, 72070 Tübingen, Germany. nicholas.conard@uni-tuebingen.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):176-7.

Despite well over 100 years of research and debate, the origins of art remain
contentious. In recent years, abstract depictions have been documented at
southern African sites dating to approximately 75 kyr before present (bp), and
the earliest figurative art, which is often seen as an important proxy for
advanced symbolic communication, has been documented in Europe as dating to
between 30 and 40 kyr bp. Here I report the discovery of a female mammoth-ivory
figurine in the basal Aurignacian deposit at Hohle Fels Cave in the Swabian Jura 
of southwestern Germany during excavations in 2008. This figurine was produced at
least 35,000 calendar years ago, making it one of the oldest known examples of
figurative art. This discovery predates the well-known Venuses from the
Gravettian culture by at least 5,000 years and radically changes our views of the
context and meaning of the earliest Palaeolithic art.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07995 
PMID: 19444215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):243-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07979.

Interior pathways of the North Atlantic meridional overturning circulation.

Bower AS(1), Lozier MS, Gary SF, Böning CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Oceanography, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02540, USA. abower@whoi.edu

To understand how our global climate will change in response to natural and
anthropogenic forcing, it is essential to determine how quickly and by what
pathways climate change signals are transported throughout the global ocean, a
vast reservoir for heat and carbon dioxide. Labrador Sea Water (LSW), formed by
open ocean convection in the subpolar North Atlantic, is a particularly sensitive
indicator of climate change on interannual to decadal timescales. Hydrographic
observations made anywhere along the western boundary of the North Atlantic
reveal a core of LSW at intermediate depths advected southward within the Deep
Western Boundary Current (DWBC). These observations have led to the widely held
view that the DWBC is the dominant pathway for the export of LSW from its
formation site in the northern North Atlantic towards the Equator. Here we show
that most of the recently ventilated LSW entering the subtropics follows
interior, not DWBC, pathways. The interior pathways are revealed by trajectories 
of subsurface RAFOS floats released during the period 2003-2005 that recorded
once-daily temperature, pressure and acoustically determined position for two
years, and by model-simulated 'e-floats' released in the subpolar DWBC. The
evidence points to a few specific locations around the Grand Banks where LSW is
most often injected into the interior. These results have implications for deep
ocean ventilation and suggest that the interior subtropical gyre should not be
ignored when considering the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07979 
PMID: 19444214 


568. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):239-42. doi: 10.1038/nature08013.

Synthesis of activated pyrimidine ribonucleotides in prebiotically plausible
conditions.

Powner MW(1), Gerland B, Sutherland JD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, The University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13
9PL, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):171-2.

At some stage in the origin of life, an informational polymer must have arisen by
purely chemical means. According to one version of the 'RNA world' hypothesis
this polymer was RNA, but attempts to provide experimental support for this have 
failed. In particular, although there has been some success demonstrating that
'activated' ribonucleotides can polymerize to form RNA, it is far from obvious
how such ribonucleotides could have formed from their constituent parts (ribose
and nucleobases). Ribose is difficult to form selectively, and the addition of
nucleobases to ribose is inefficient in the case of purines and does not occur at
all in the case of the canonical pyrimidines. Here we show that activated
pyrimidine ribonucleotides can be formed in a short sequence that bypasses free
ribose and the nucleobases, and instead proceeds through arabinose
amino-oxazoline and anhydronucleoside intermediates. The starting materials for
the synthesis-cyanamide, cyanoacetylene, glycolaldehyde, glyceraldehyde and
inorganic phosphate-are plausible prebiotic feedstock molecules, and the
conditions of the synthesis are consistent with potential early-Earth geochemical
models. Although inorganic phosphate is only incorporated into the nucleotides at
a late stage of the sequence, its presence from the start is essential as it
controls three reactions in the earlier stages by acting as a general acid/base
catalyst, a nucleophilic catalyst, a pH buffer and a chemical buffer. For
prebiotic reaction sequences, our results highlight the importance of working
with mixed chemical systems in which reactants for a particular reaction step can
also control other steps.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08013 
PMID: 19444213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):234-8. doi: 10.1038/nature08003.

White organic light-emitting diodes with fluorescent tube efficiency.

Reineke S(1), Lindner F, Schwartz G, Seidler N, Walzer K, Lüssem B, Leo K.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Angewandte Photophysik, George-Bähr-Strasse 1, D-01062 Dresden,
Germany.

The development of white organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) holds great
promise for the production of highly efficient large-area light sources. High
internal quantum efficiencies for the conversion of electrical energy to light
have been realized. Nevertheless, the overall device power efficiencies are still
considerably below the 60-70 lumens per watt of fluorescent tubes, which is the
current benchmark for novel light sources. Although some reports about highly
power-efficient white OLEDs exist, details about structure and the measurement
conditions of these structures have not been fully disclosed: the highest power
efficiency reported in the scientific literature is 44 lm W(-1) (ref. 7). Here we
report an improved OLED structure which reaches fluorescent tube efficiency. By
combining a carefully chosen emitter layer with high-refractive-index substrates,
and using a periodic outcoupling structure, we achieve a device power efficiency 
of 90 lm W(-1) at 1,000 candelas per square metre. This efficiency has the
potential to be raised to 124 lm W(-1) if the light outcoupling can be further
improved. Besides approaching internal quantum efficiency values of one, we have 
also focused on reducing energetic and ohmic losses that occur during
electron-photon conversion. We anticipate that our results will be a starting
point for further research, leading to white OLEDs having efficiencies beyond 100
lm W(-1). This could make white-light OLEDs, with their soft area light and high 
colour-rendering qualities, the light sources of choice for the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08003 
PMID: 19444212 


570. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):230-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07998.

Thermal vestige of the zero-temperature jamming transition.

Zhang Z(1), Xu N, Chen DT, Yunker P, Alsayed AM, Aptowicz KB, Habdas P, Liu AJ,
Nagel SR, Yodh AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA. zexin@sas.upenn.edu

When the packing fraction is increased sufficiently, loose particulates jam to
form a rigid solid in which the constituents are no longer free to move. In
typical granular materials and foams, the thermal energy is too small to produce 
structural rearrangements. In this zero-temperature (T = 0) limit, multiple
diverging and vanishing length scales characterize the approach to a sharp
jamming transition. However, because thermal motion becomes relevant when the
particles are small enough, it is imperative to understand how these length
scales evolve as the temperature is increased. Here we used both colloidal
experiments and computer simulations to progress beyond the zero-temperature
limit to track one of the key parameters-the overlap distance between
neighbouring particles-which vanishes at the T = 0 jamming transition. We find
that this structural feature retains a vestige of its T = 0 behaviour and evolves
in an unusual manner, which has masked its appearance until now. It is evident as
a function of packing fraction at fixed temperature, but not as a function of
temperature at fixed packing fraction or pressure. Our results conclusively
demonstrate that length scales associated with the T = 0 jamming transition
persist in thermal systems, not only in simulations but also in laboratory
experiments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07998 
PMID: 19444211 


571. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):227-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08032.

Radiation-pressure mixing of large dust grains in protoplanetary disks.

Vinković D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, University of Split, Nikole Tesle 12, 21000 Split,
Croatia. vinkovic@pmfst.hr

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):173-6.

Dusty disks around young stars are formed out of interstellar dust that consists 
of amorphous, submicrometre grains. Yet the grains found in comets and
meteorites, and traced in the spectra of young stars, include large crystalline
grains that must have undergone annealing or condensation at temperatures in
excess of 1,000 K, even though they are mixed with surrounding material that
never experienced temperatures as high as that. This prompted theories of
large-scale mixing capable of transporting thermally altered grains from the
inner, hot part of accretion disks to outer, colder disk regions, but all have
assumptions that may be problematic. Here I report that infrared radiation
arising from the dusty disk can loft grains bigger than one micrometre out of the
inner disk, whereupon they are pushed outwards by stellar radiation pressure
while gliding above the disk. Grains re-enter the disk at radii where it is too
cold to produce sufficient infrared radiation-pressure support for a given grain 
size and solid density. Properties of the observed disks suggest that this
process might be active in almost all young stellar objects and young brown
dwarfs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08032 
PMID: 19444210 


572. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):224-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08004.

Episodic formation of cometary material in the outburst of a young Sun-like star.

Abrahám P(1), Juhász A, Dullemond CP, Kóspál A, van Boekel R, Bouwman J, Henning 
T, Moór A, Mosoni L, Sicilia-Aguilar A, Sipos N.

Author information: 
(1)Konkoly Observatory of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, PO Box 67, 1525
Budapest, Hungary. abraham@konkoly.hu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):173-6.

The Solar System originated in a cloud of interstellar gas and dust. The dust is 
in the form of amorphous silicate particles and carbonaceous dust. The
composition of cometary material, however, shows that a significant fraction of
the amorphous silicate dust was transformed into crystalline form during the
early evolution of the protosolar nebula. How and when this transformation
happened has been a question of debate, with the main options being heating by
the young Sun and shock heating. Here we report mid-infrared features in the
outburst spectrum of the young Sun-like star EX Lupi that were not present in
quiescence. We attribute them to crystalline forsterite. We conclude that the
crystals were produced through thermal annealing in the surface layer of the
inner disk by heat from the outburst, a process that has hitherto not been
considered. The observed lack of cold crystals excludes shock heating at larger
radii.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08004 
PMID: 19444209 


573. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07997.

A surface transporter family conveys the trypanosome differentiation signal.

Dean S(1), Marchetti R, Kirk K, Matthews KR.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution, Institute for Immunology and
Infection Research, School of Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh, West 
Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):175.

Microbial pathogens use environmental cues to trigger the developmental events
needed to infect mammalian hosts or transmit to disease vectors. The parasites
causing African sleeping sickness respond to citrate or cis-aconitate (CCA) to
initiate life-cycle development when transmitted to their tsetse fly vector. This
requires hypersensitization of the parasites to CCA by exposure to low
temperature, conditions encountered after tsetse fly feeding at dusk or dawn.
Here we identify a carboxylate-transporter family, PAD (proteins associated with 
differentiation), required for perception of this differentiation signal.
Consistent with predictions for the response of trypanosomes to CCA, PAD proteins
are expressed on the surface of the transmission-competent 'stumpy-form'
parasites in the bloodstream, and at least one member is thermoregulated, showing
elevated expression and surface access at low temperature. Moreover,
RNA-interference-mediated ablation of PAD expression diminishes CCA-induced
differentiation and eliminates CCA hypersensitivity under cold-shock conditions. 
As well as being molecular transducers of the differentiation signal in these
parasites, PAD proteins provide the first example of a surface marker able to
discriminate the transmission stage of trypanosomes in their mammalian host.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07997 
PMCID: PMC2685892
PMID: 19444208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):207-12. doi: 10.1038/nature08060.

Viruses manipulate the marine environment.

Rohwer F(1), Thurber RV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, San Diego, California
92182, USA.

Marine viruses affect Bacteria, Archaea and eukaryotic organisms and are major
components of the marine food web. Most studies have focused on their role as
predators and parasites, but many of the interactions between marine viruses and 
their hosts are much more complicated. A series of recent studies has shown that 
viruses have the ability to manipulate the life histories and evolution of their 
hosts in remarkable ways, challenging our understanding of this almost invisible 
world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08060 
PMID: 19444207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):200-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08059.

The microbial ocean from genomes to biomes.

DeLong EF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. delong@mit.edu

Numerically, microbial species dominate the oceans, yet their population
dynamics, metabolic complexity and synergistic interactions remain largely
uncharted. A full understanding of life in the ocean requires more than knowledge
of marine microbial taxa and their genome sequences. The latest experimental
techniques and analytical approaches can provide a fresh perspective on the
biological interactions within marine ecosystems, aiding in the construction of
predictive models that can interrelate microbial dynamics with the biogeochemical
matter and energy fluxes that make up the ocean ecosystem.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08059 
PMID: 19444206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):193-9. doi: 10.1038/nature08058.

Microbial community structure and its functional implications.

Fuhrman JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089, USA. fuhrman@usc.edu

Marine microbial communities are engines of globally important processes, such as
the marine carbon, nitrogen and sulphur cycles. Recent data on the structures of 
these communities show that they adhere to universal biological rules.
Co-occurrence patterns can help define species identities, and systems-biology
tools are revealing networks of interacting microorganisms. Some microbial
systems are found to change predictably, helping us to anticipate how microbial
communities and their activities will shift in a changing world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08058 
PMID: 19444205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):185-92. doi: 10.1038/nature08057.

The life of diatoms in the world's oceans.

Armbrust EV(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA. armbrust@ocean.washington.edu

Marine diatoms rose to prominence about 100 million years ago and today generate 
most of the organic matter that serves as food for life in the sea. They exist in
a dilute world where compounds essential for growth are recycled and shared, and 
they greatly influence global climate, atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration
and marine ecosystem function. How these essential organisms will respond to the 
rapidly changing conditions in today's oceans is critical for the health of the
environment and is being uncovered by studies of their genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08057 
PMID: 19444204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):180-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08056.

Microbial oceanography in a sea of opportunity.

Bowler C(1), Karl DM, Colwell RR.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS UMR8186, Department of Biology, Ecole Normale Supérieure, 46 rue d'Ulm,
Paris, France. cbowler@biologie.ens.fr

Plankton use solar energy to drive the nutrient cycles that make the planet
habitable for larger organisms. We can now explore the diversity and functions of
plankton using genomics, revealing the gene repertoires associated with survival 
in the oceans. Such studies will help us to appreciate the sensitivity of ocean
systems and of the ocean's response to climate change, improving the predictive
power of climate models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08056 
PMID: 19444203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):218-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07983. Epub 2009 Apr 26.

Select Drosophila glomeruli mediate innate olfactory attraction and aversion.

Semmelhack JL(1), Wang JW.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Section, Division of Biological Sciences, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Fruitflies show robust attraction to food odours, which usually excite several
glomeruli. To understand how the representation of such odours leads to
behaviour, we used genetic tools to dissect the contribution of each activated
glomerulus. Apple cider vinegar triggers robust innate attraction at a relatively
low concentration, which activates six glomeruli. By silencing individual
glomeruli, here we show that the absence of activity in two glomeruli, DM1 and
VA2, markedly reduces attraction. Conversely, when each of these two glomeruli
was selectively activated, flies showed as robust an attraction to vinegar as
wild-type flies. Notably, a higher concentration of vinegar excites an additional
glomerulus and is less attractive to flies. We show that activation of the extra 
glomerulus is necessary and sufficient to mediate the behavioural switch.
Together, these results indicate that individual glomeruli, rather than the
entire pattern of active glomeruli, mediate innate behavioural output.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07983 
PMCID: PMC2702439
PMID: 19396157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):278-81. doi: 10.1038/nature07982. Epub 2009 Apr 15.

A yeast-endonuclease-generated DNA break induces antigenic switching in
Trypanosoma brucei.

Boothroyd CE(1), Dreesen O, Leonova T, Ly KI, Figueiredo LM, Cross GA,
Papavasiliou FN.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Lymphocyte Biology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):172-3.

Trypanosoma brucei is the causative agent of African sleeping sickness in humans 
and one of the causes of nagana in cattle. This protozoan parasite evades the
host immune system by antigenic variation, a periodic switching of its variant
surface glycoprotein (VSG) coat. VSG switching is spontaneous and occurs at a
rate of about 10(-2)-10(-3) per population doubling in recent isolates from
nature, but at a markedly reduced rate (10(-5)-10(-6)) in laboratory-adapted
strains. VSG switching is thought to occur predominantly through gene conversion,
a form of homologous recombination initiated by a DNA lesion that is used by
other pathogens (for example, Candida albicans, Borrelia sp. and Neisseria
gonorrhoeae) to generate surface protein diversity, and by B lymphocytes of the
vertebrate immune system to generate antibody diversity. Very little is known
about the molecular mechanism of VSG switching in T. brucei. Here we demonstrate 
that the introduction of a DNA double-stranded break (DSB) adjacent to the
approximately 70-base-pair (bp) repeats upstream of the transcribed VSG gene
increases switching in vitro approximately 250-fold, producing switched clones
with a frequency and features similar to those generated early in an infection.
We were also able to detect spontaneous DSBs within the 70-bp repeats upstream of
the actively transcribed VSG gene, indicating that a DSB is a natural
intermediate of VSG gene conversion and that VSG switching is the result of the
resolution of this DSB by break-induced replication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07982 
PMCID: PMC2688456
PMID: 19369939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):270-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07937. Epub 2009 Apr 8.

Discovery of dual function acridones as a new antimalarial chemotype.

Kelly JX(1), Smilkstein MJ, Brun R, Wittlin S, Cooper RA, Lane KD, Janowsky A,
Johnson RA, Dodean RA, Winter R, Hinrichs DJ, Riscoe MK.

Author information: 
(1)Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Centre, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
kellyja@ohsu.edu

Preventing and delaying the emergence of drug resistance is an essential goal of 
antimalarial drug development. Monotherapy and highly mutable drug targets have
each facilitated resistance, and both are undesirable in effective long-term
strategies against multi-drug-resistant malaria. Haem remains an immutable and
vulnerable target, because it is not parasite-encoded and its detoxification
during haemoglobin degradation, critical to parasite survival, can be subverted
by drug-haem interaction as in the case of quinolines and many other drugs. Here 
we describe a new antimalarial chemotype that combines the haem-targeting
character of acridones, together with a chemosensitizing component that
counteracts resistance to quinoline antimalarial drugs. Beyond the essential
intrinsic characteristics common to deserving candidate antimalarials (high
potency in vitro against pan-sensitive and multi-drug-resistant Plasmodium
falciparum, efficacy and safety in vivo after oral administration, inexpensive
synthesis and favourable physicochemical properties), our initial lead, T3.5
(3-chloro-6-(2-diethylamino-ethoxy)-10-(2-diethylamino-ethyl)-acridone),
demonstrates unique synergistic properties. In addition to 'verapamil-like'
chemosensitization to chloroquine and amodiaquine against quinoline-resistant
parasites, T3.5 also results in an apparently mechanistically distinct synergism 
with quinine and with piperaquine. This synergy, evident in both
quinoline-sensitive and quinoline-resistant parasites, has been demonstrated both
in vitro and in vivo. In summary, this innovative acridone design merges
intrinsic potency and resistance-counteracting functions in one molecule, and
represents a new strategy to expand, enhance and sustain effective antimalarial
drug combinations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07937 
PMID: 19357645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):253-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07921. Epub 2009 Apr 6.

Snowdrift game dynamics and facultative cheating in yeast.

Gore J(1), Youk H, van Oudenaarden A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

The origin of cooperation is a central challenge to our understanding of
evolution. The fact that microbial interactions can be manipulated in ways that
animal interactions cannot has led to a growing interest in microbial models of
cooperation and competition. For the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to
grow on sucrose, the disaccharide must first be hydrolysed by the enzyme
invertase. This hydrolysis reaction is performed outside the cytoplasm in the
periplasmic space between the plasma membrane and the cell wall. Here we
demonstrate that the vast majority ( approximately 99 per cent) of the
monosaccharides created by sucrose hydrolysis diffuse away before they can be
imported into the cell, serving to make invertase production and secretion a
cooperative behaviour. A mutant cheater strain that does not produce invertase is
able to take advantage of and invade a population of wild-type cooperator cells. 
However, over a wide range of conditions, the wild-type cooperator can also
invade a population of cheater cells. Therefore, we observe steady-state
coexistence between the two strains in well-mixed culture resulting from the fact
that rare strategies outperform common strategies-the defining features of what
game theorists call the snowdrift game. A model of the cooperative interaction
incorporating nonlinear benefits explains the origin of this coexistence. We are 
able to alter the outcome of the competition by varying either the cost of
cooperation or the glucose concentration in the media. Finally, we note that
glucose repression of invertase expression in wild-type cells produces a strategy
that is optimal for the snowdrift game-wild-type cells cooperate only when
competing against cheater cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07921 
PMCID: PMC2888597
PMID: 19349960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):257-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07868.

Two-year-olds with autism orient to non-social contingencies rather than
biological motion.

Klin A(1), Lin DJ, Gorrindo P, Ramsay G, Jones W.

Author information: 
(1)Yale Child Study Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06519-1124, USA. ami.klin@yale.edu

Typically developing human infants preferentially attend to biological motion
within the first days of life. This ability is highly conserved across species
and is believed to be critical for filial attachment and for detection of
predators. The neural underpinnings of biological motion perception are
overlapping with brain regions involved in perception of basic social signals
such as facial expression and gaze direction, and preferential attention to
biological motion is seen as a precursor to the capacity for attributing
intentions to others. However, in a serendipitous observation, we recently found 
that an infant with autism failed to recognize point-light displays of biological
motion, but was instead highly sensitive to the presence of a non-social,
physical contingency that occurred within the stimuli by chance. This observation
raised the possibility that perception of biological motion may be altered in
children with autism from a very early age, with cascading consequences for both 
social development and the lifelong impairments in social interaction that are a 
hallmark of autism spectrum disorders. Here we show that two-year-olds with
autism fail to orient towards point-light displays of biological motion, and
their viewing behaviour when watching these point-light displays can be explained
instead as a response to non-social, physical contingencies--physical
contingencies that are disregarded by control children. This observation has
far-reaching implications for understanding the altered neurodevelopmental
trajectory of brain specialization in autism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07868 
PMCID: PMC2758571
PMID: 19329996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nature. 2009 May 14;459(7244):262-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07935. Epub 2009 Mar 29.

Single Lgr5 stem cells build crypt-villus structures in vitro without a
mesenchymal niche.

Sato T(1), Vries RG, Snippert HJ, van de Wetering M, Barker N, Stange DE, van Es 
JH, Abo A, Kujala P, Peters PJ, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute and University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584CT Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The intestinal epithelium is the most rapidly self-renewing tissue in adult
mammals. We have recently demonstrated the presence of about six cycling Lgr5(+) 
stem cells at the bottoms of small-intestinal crypts. Here we describe the
establishment of long-term culture conditions under which single crypts undergo
multiple crypt fission events, while simultanously generating villus-like
epithelial domains in which all differentiated cell types are present. Single
sorted Lgr5(+) stem cells can also initiate these cryptvillus organoids. Tracing 
experiments indicate that the Lgr5(+) stem-cell hierarchy is maintained in
organoids. We conclude that intestinal cryptvillus units are self-organizing
structures, which can be built from a single stem cell in the absence of a
non-epithelial cellular niche.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07935 
PMID: 19329995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature08034.

Hypusine-containing protein eIF5A promotes translation elongation.

Saini P(1), Eyler DE, Green R, Dever TE.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Regulation and Development, NICHD, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):44-5.

Translation elongation factors facilitate protein synthesis by the ribosome.
Previous studies identified two universally conserved translation elongation
factors, EF-Tu in bacteria (known as eEF1A in eukaryotes) and EF-G (eEF2), which 
deliver aminoacyl-tRNAs to the ribosome and promote ribosomal translocation,
respectively. The factor eIF5A (encoded by HYP2 and ANB1 in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae), the sole protein in eukaryotes and archaea to contain the unusual
amino acid hypusine (N(epsilon)-(4-amino-2-hydroxybutyl)lysine), was originally
identified based on its ability to stimulate the yield (endpoint) of
methionyl-puromycin synthesis-a model assay for first peptide bond synthesis
thought to report on certain aspects of translation initiation. Hypusine is
required for eIF5A to associate with ribosomes and to stimulate
methionyl-puromycin synthesis. Because eIF5A did not stimulate earlier steps of
translation initiation, and depletion of eIF5A in yeast only modestly impaired
protein synthesis, it was proposed that eIF5A function was limited to stimulating
synthesis of the first peptide bond or that eIF5A functioned on only a subset of 
cellular messenger RNAs. However, the precise cellular role of eIF5A is unknown, 
and the protein has also been linked to mRNA decay, including the
nonsense-mediated mRNA decay pathway, and to nucleocytoplasmic transport. Here we
use molecular genetic and biochemical studies to show that eIF5A promotes
translation elongation. Depletion or inactivation of eIF5A in the yeast S.
cerevisiae resulted in the accumulation of polysomes and an increase in ribosomal
transit times. Addition of recombinant eIF5A from yeast, but not a derivative
lacking hypusine, enhanced the rate of tripeptide synthesis in vitro. Moreover,
inactivation of eIF5A mimicked the effects of the eEF2 inhibitor sordarin,
indicating that eIF5A might function together with eEF2 to promote ribosomal
translocation. Because eIF5A is a structural homologue of the bacterial protein
EF-P, we propose that eIF5A/EF-P is a universally conserved translation
elongation factor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08034 
PMCID: PMC3140696
PMID: 19424157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07922.

Insular dwarfism in hippos and a model for brain size reduction in Homo
floresiensis.

Weston EM(1), Lister AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Palaeontology, Natural History Museum, London SW7 5BD, UK.
e.weston@nhm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):41-2.

Body size reduction in mammals is usually associated with only moderate brain
size reduction, because the brain and sensory organs complete their growth before
the rest of the body during ontogeny. On this basis, 'phyletic dwarfs' are
predicted to have a greater relative brain size than 'phyletic giants'. However, 
this trend has been questioned in the special case of dwarfism of mammals on
islands. Here we show that the endocranial capacities of extinct dwarf species of
hippopotamus from Madagascar are up to 30% smaller than those of a mainland
African ancestor scaled to equivalent body mass. These results show that brain
size reduction is much greater than predicted from an intraspecific 'late
ontogenetic' model of dwarfism in which brain size scales to body size with an
exponent of 0.35. The nature of the proportional change or grade shift observed
here indicates that selective pressures on brain size are potentially independent
of those on body size. This study demonstrates empirically that it is
mechanistically possible for dwarf mammals on islands to evolve significantly
smaller brains than would be predicted from a model of dwarfing based on the
intraspecific scaling of the mainland ancestor. Our findings challenge current
understanding of brain-body allometric relationships in mammals and suggest that 
the process of dwarfism could in principle explain small brain size, a factor
relevant to the interpretation of the small-brained hominin found on the Island
of Flores, Indonesia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07922 
PMCID: PMC2679980
PMID: 19424156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07989.

The foot of Homo floresiensis.

Jungers WL(1), Harcourt-Smith WE, Wunderlich RE, Tocheri MW, Larson SG, Sutikna
T, Due RA, Morwood MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Stony Brook University Medical Center,
Stony Brook, New York 11794-8081, USA. william.jungers@stonybrook.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):41-2.

Homo floresiensis is an endemic hominin species that occupied Liang Bua, a
limestone cave on Flores in eastern Indonesia, during the Late Pleistocene epoch.
The skeleton of the type specimen (LB1) of H. floresiensis includes a relatively 
complete left foot and parts of the right foot. These feet provide insights into 
the evolution of bipedalism and, together with the rest of the skeleton, have
implications for hominin dispersal events into Asia. Here we show that LB1's foot
is exceptionally long relative to the femur and tibia, proportions never before
documented in hominins but seen in some African apes. Although the metatarsal
robusticity sequence is human-like and the hallux is fully adducted, other
intrinsic proportions and pedal features are more ape-like. The postcranial
anatomy of H. floresiensis is that of a biped, but the unique lower-limb
proportions and surprising combination of derived and primitive pedal
morphologies suggest kinematic and biomechanical differences from modern human
gait. Therefore, LB1 offers the most complete glimpse of a bipedal hominin foot
that lacks the full suite of derived features characteristic of modern humans and
whose mosaic design may be primitive for the genus Homo. These new findings raise
the possibility that the ancestor of H. floresiensis was not Homo erectus but
instead some other, more primitive, hominin whose dispersal into southeast Asia
is still undocumented.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07989 
PMID: 19424155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):77-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07977.

Upper-mantle volatile chemistry at Oldoinyo Lengai volcano and the origin of
carbonatites.

Fischer TP(1), Burnard P, Marty B, Hilton DR, Füri E, Palhol F, Sharp ZD,
Mangasini F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, MSC03 2040, 1 University of New
Mexico, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA. fischer@unm.edu

Carbonatite lavas are highly unusual in that they contain almost no SiO(2) and
are >50 per cent carbonate minerals. Although carbonatite magmatism has occurred 
throughout Earth's history, Oldoinyo Lengai, in Tanzania, is the only currently
active volcano producing these exotic rocks. Here we show that volcanic gases
captured during an eruptive episode at Oldoinyo Lengai are indistinguishable from
those emitted along mid-ocean ridges, despite the fact that Oldoinyo Lengai
carbonatites occur in a setting far removed from oceanic spreading centres. In
contrast to lithophile trace elements, which are highly fractionated by the
immiscible phase separation that produces these carbonatites, volatiles (CO(2),
He, N(2) and Ar) are little affected by this process. Our results demonstrate
that a globally homogenous reservoir exists in the upper mantle and supplies
volatiles to both mid-ocean ridges and continental rifts. This argues against an 
unusually C-rich mantle being responsible for the genesis of Na-rich carbonatite 
and its nephelinite source magma at Oldoinyo Lengai. Rather, these carbonatites
are formed in the shallow crust by immiscibility from silicate magmas
(nephelinite), and are stable under eruption conditions as a result of their high
Na contents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07977 
PMID: 19424154 


589. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):73-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07971.

Self-assembly of a nanoscale DNA box with a controllable lid.

Andersen ES(1), Dong M, Nielsen MM, Jahn K, Subramani R, Mamdouh W, Golas MM,
Sander B, Stark H, Oliveira CL, Pedersen JS, Birkedal V, Besenbacher F, Gothelf
KV, Kjems J.

Author information: 
(1)Danish National Research Foundation: Centre for DNA Nanotechnology.

The unique structural motifs and self-recognition properties of DNA can be
exploited to generate self-assembling DNA nanostructures of specific shapes using
a 'bottom-up' approach. Several assembly strategies have been developed for
building complex three-dimensional (3D) DNA nanostructures. Recently, the DNA
'origami' method was used to build two-dimensional addressable DNA structures of 
arbitrary shape that can be used as platforms to arrange nanomaterials with high 
precision and specificity. A long-term goal of this field has been to construct
fully addressable 3D DNA nanostructures. Here we extend the DNA origami method
into three dimensions by creating an addressable DNA box 42 x 36 x 36 nm(3) in
size that can be opened in the presence of externally supplied DNA 'keys'. We
thoroughly characterize the structure of this DNA box using cryogenic
transmission electron microscopy, small-angle X-ray scattering and atomic force
microscopy, and use fluorescence resonance energy transfer to optically monitor
the opening of the lid. Controlled access to the interior compartment of this DNA
nanocontainer could yield several interesting applications, for example as a
logic sensor for multiple-sequence signals or for the controlled release of
nanocargos.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07971 
PMID: 19424153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):68-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07970.

Force-induced activation of covalent bonds in mechanoresponsive polymeric
materials.

Davis DA(1), Hamilton A, Yang J, Cremar LD, Van Gough D, Potisek SL, Ong MT,
Braun PV, Martínez TJ, White SR, Moore JS, Sottos NR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois 
61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):45-6.

Mechanochemical transduction enables an extraordinary range of physiological
processes such as the sense of touch, hearing, balance, muscle contraction, and
the growth and remodelling of tissue and bone. Although biology is replete with
materials systems that actively and functionally respond to mechanical stimuli,
the default mechanochemical reaction of bulk polymers to large external stress is
the unselective scission of covalent bonds, resulting in damage or failure. An
alternative to this degradation process is the rational molecular design of
synthetic materials such that mechanical stress favourably alters material
properties. A few mechanosensitive polymers with this property have been
developed; but their active response is mediated through non-covalent processes, 
which may limit the extent to which properties can be modified and the long-term 
stability in structural materials. Previously, we have shown with dissolved
polymer strands incorporating mechanically sensitive chemical groups-so-called
mechanophores-that the directional nature of mechanical forces can selectively
break and re-form covalent bonds. We now demonstrate that such force-induced
covalent-bond activation can also be realized with mechanophore-linked
elastomeric and glassy polymers, by using a mechanophore that changes colour as
it undergoes a reversible electrocyclic ring-opening reaction under tensile
stress and thus allows us to directly and locally visualize the mechanochemical
reaction. We find that pronounced changes in colour and fluorescence emerge with 
the accumulation of plastic deformation, indicating that in these polymeric
materials the transduction of mechanical force into the ring-opening reaction is 
an activated process. We anticipate that force activation of covalent bonds can
serve as a general strategy for the development of new mechanophore building
blocks that impart polymeric materials with desirable functionalities ranging
from damage sensing to fully regenerative self-healing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07970 
PMID: 19424152 


591. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):64-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07981.

A large iron isotope effect in SmFeAsO(1 - x)F(x) and Ba(1 - x)K(x)Fe(2)As(2).

Liu RH(1), Wu T, Wu G, Chen H, Wang XF, Xie YL, Ying JJ, Yan YJ, Li QJ, Shi BC,
Chu WS, Wu ZY, Chen XH.

Author information: 
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale and Department
of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026,
China.

The recent discovery of superconductivity in oxypnictides with a critical
transition temperature (T(C)) higher than the McMillan limit of 39 K (the
theoretical maximum predicted by Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory) has generated 
great excitement. Theoretical calculations indicate that the electron-phonon
interaction is not strong enough to give rise to such high transition
temperatures, but strong ferromagnetic/antiferromagnetic fluctuations have been
proposed to be responsible. Superconductivity and magnetism in pnictide
superconductors, however, show a strong sensitivity to the crystal lattice,
suggesting the possibility of unconventional electron-phonon coupling. Here we
report the effect of oxygen and iron isotope substitution on T(C) and the
spin-density wave (SDW) transition temperature (T(SDW)) in the SmFeAsO(1 - x)F(x)
and Ba(1 - x)K(x)Fe(2)As(2) systems. The oxygen isotope effect on T(C) and T(SDW)
is very small, while the iron isotope exponent alpha(C) = -dlnT(C)/dlnM is about 
0.35 (0.5 corresponds to the full isotope effect). Surprisingly, the iron isotope
exchange shows the same effect on T(SDW) as T(C). This indicates that
electron-phonon interaction plays some role in the superconducting mechanism, but
a simple electron-phonon coupling mechanism seems unlikely because a strong
magnon-phonon coupling is included.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07981 
PMID: 19424151 


592. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):61-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07947.

Spatial correlation between submillimetre and Lyman-alpha galaxies in the SSA 22 
protocluster.

Tamura Y(1), Kohno K, Nakanishi K, Hatsukade B, Iono D, Wilson GW, Yun MS, Takata
T, Matsuda Y, Tosaki T, Ezawa H, Perera TA, Scott KS, Austermann JE, Hughes DH,
Aretxaga I, Chung A, Oshima T, Yamaguchi N, Tanaka K, Kawabe R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Tokyo, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113-0033, Japan. yoichi.tamura@nao.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):43-4.

Lyman-alpha emitters are thought to be young, low-mass galaxies with ages of
approximately 10(8) yr (refs 1, 2). An overdensity of them in one region of the
sky (the SSA 22 field) traces out a filamentary structure in the early Universe
at a redshift of z approximately 3.1 (equivalent to 15 per cent of the age of the
Universe) and is believed to mark a forming protocluster. Galaxies that are
bright at (sub)millimetre wavelengths are undergoing violent episodes of star
formation, and there is evidence that they are preferentially associated with
high-redshift radio galaxies, so the question of whether they are also associated
with the most significant large-scale structure growing at high redshift (as
outlined by Lyman-alpha emitters) naturally arises. Here we report an imaging
survey of 1,100-microm emission in the SSA 22 region. We find an enhancement of
submillimetre galaxies near the core of the protocluster, and a large-scale
correlation between the submillimetre galaxies and the low-mass Lyman-alpha
emitters, suggesting synchronous formation of the two very different types of
star-forming galaxy within the same structure at high redshift. These results are
in general agreement with our understanding of the formation of cosmic structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07947 
PMID: 19424150 


593. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):55-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07925.

HDAC2 negatively regulates memory formation and synaptic plasticity.

Guan JS(1), Haggarty SJ, Giacometti E, Dannenberg JH, Joseph N, Gao J, Nieland
TJ, Zhou Y, Wang X, Mazitschek R, Bradner JE, DePinho RA, Jaenisch R, Tsai LH.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences.

Chromatin modifications, especially histone-tail acetylation, have been
implicated in memory formation. Increased histone-tail acetylation induced by
inhibitors of histone deacetylases (HDACis) facilitates learning and memory in
wild-type mice as well as in mouse models of neurodegeneration. Harnessing the
therapeutic potential of HDACis requires knowledge of the specific HDAC family
member(s) linked to cognitive enhancement. Here we show that neuron-specific
overexpression of HDAC2, but not that of HDAC1, decreased dendritic spine
density, synapse number, synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Conversely,
Hdac2 deficiency resulted in increased synapse number and memory facilitation,
similar to chronic treatment with HDACis in mice. Notably, reduced synapse number
and learning impairment of HDAC2-overexpressing mice were ameliorated by chronic 
treatment with HDACis. Correspondingly, treatment with HDACis failed to further
facilitate memory formation in Hdac2-deficient mice. Furthermore, analysis of
promoter occupancy revealed an association of HDAC2 with the promoters of genes
implicated in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Taken together, our
results suggest that HDAC2 functions in modulating synaptic plasticity and
long-lasting changes of neural circuits, which in turn negatively regulates
learning and memory. These observations encourage the development and testing of 
HDAC2-selective inhibitors for human diseases associated with memory impairment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07925 
PMCID: PMC3498958
PMID: 19424149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):49-54. doi: 10.1038/nature07990.

The formation of the first stars and galaxies.

Bromm V(1), Yoshida N, Hernquist L, McKee CF.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, University of Texas, 2511 Speedway, Austin, Texas 78712,
USA. vbromm@astro.as.utexas.edu

Observations made using large ground-based and space-borne telescopes have probed
cosmic history from the present day to a time when the Universe was less than
one-tenth of its present age. Earlier still lies the remaining frontier, where
the first stars, galaxies and massive black holes formed. They fundamentally
transformed the early Universe by endowing it with the first sources of light and
chemical elements beyond the primordial hydrogen and helium produced in the Big
Bang. The interplay of theory and upcoming observations promises to answer the
key open questions in this emerging field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07990 
PMID: 19424148 


595. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07859. Epub 2009 Mar 25.

Haematopoietic stem cells depend on Galpha(s)-mediated signalling to engraft bone
marrow.

Adams GB(1), Alley IR, Chung UI, Chabner KT, Jeanson NT, Lo Celso C, Marsters ES,
Chen M, Weinstein LS, Lin CP, Kronenberg HM, Scadden DT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) change location during
development and circulate in mammals throughout life, moving into and out of the 
bloodstream to engage bone marrow niches in sequential steps of homing,
engraftment and retention. Here we show that HSPC engraftment of bone marrow in
fetal development is dependent on the guanine-nucleotide-binding protein
stimulatory alpha subunit (Galpha(s)). HSPCs from adult mice deficient in
Galpha(s) (Galpha(s)(-/-)) differentiate and undergo chemotaxis, but also do not 
home to or engraft in the bone marrow in adult mice and demonstrate a marked
inability to engage the marrow microvasculature. If deleted after engraftment,
Galpha(s) deficiency did not lead to lack of retention in the marrow, rather
cytokine-induced mobilization into the blood was impaired. Testing whether
activation of Galpha(s) affects HSPCs, pharmacological activators enhanced homing
and engraftment in vivo. Galpha(s) governs specific aspects of HSPC localization 
under physiological conditions in vivo and may be pharmacologically targeted to
improve transplantation efficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07859 
PMCID: PMC2761017
PMID: 19322176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature07883. Epub 2009 Mar 22.

Fused has evolved divergent roles in vertebrate Hedgehog signalling and motile
ciliogenesis.

Wilson CW(1), Nguyen CT, Chen MH, Yang JH, Gacayan R, Huang J, Chen JN, Chuang
PT.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, University of California, San Francisco,
California 94158, USA.

Hedgehog (Hh) signalling is essential for several aspects of embryogenesis. In
Drosophila, Hh transduction is mediated by a cytoplasmic signalling complex that 
includes the putative serine-threonine kinase Fused (Fu) and the kinesin Costal 2
(Cos2, also known as Cos), yet Fu does not have a conserved role in Hh signalling
in mammals. Mouse Fu (also known as Stk36) mutants are viable and seem to respond
normally to Hh signalling. Here we show that mouse Fu is essential for
construction of the central pair apparatus of motile, 9+2 cilia and offers a new 
model of human primary ciliary dyskinesia. We found that mouse Fu physically
interacts with Kif27, a mammalian Cos2 orthologue, and linked Fu to known
structural components of the central pair apparatus, providing evidence for the
first regulatory component involved in central pair construction. We also
demonstrated that zebrafish Fu is required both for Hh signalling and cilia
biogenesis in Kupffer's vesicle. Mouse Fu rescued both Hh-dependent and
-independent defects in zebrafish. Our results delineate a new pathway for
central pair apparatus assembly, identify common regulators of Hh signalling and 
motile ciliogenesis, and provide insights into the evolution of the Hh cascade.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07883 
PMCID: PMC3204898
PMID: 19305393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07829. Epub 2009 Mar 18.

Histone modifications at human enhancers reflect global cell-type-specific gene
expression.

Heintzman ND(1), Hon GC, Hawkins RD, Kheradpour P, Stark A, Harp LF, Ye Z, Lee
LK, Stuart RK, Ching CW, Ching KA, Antosiewicz-Bourget JE, Liu H, Zhang X, Green 
RD, Lobanenkov VV, Stewart R, Thomson JA, Crawford GE, Kellis M, Ren B.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, UCSD School of Medicine, 9500 Gilman
Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0653, USA.

Comment in
    Epigenomics. 2009 Oct;1(1):22.

The human body is composed of diverse cell types with distinct functions.
Although it is known that lineage specification depends on cell-specific gene
expression, which in turn is driven by promoters, enhancers, insulators and other
cis-regulatory DNA sequences for each gene, the relative roles of these
regulatory elements in this process are not clear. We have previously developed a
chromatin-immunoprecipitation-based microarray method (ChIP-chip) to locate
promoters, enhancers and insulators in the human genome. Here we use the same
approach to identify these elements in multiple cell types and investigate their 
roles in cell-type-specific gene expression. We observed that the chromatin state
at promoters and CTCF-binding at insulators is largely invariant across diverse
cell types. In contrast, enhancers are marked with highly cell-type-specific
histone modification patterns, strongly correlate to cell-type-specific gene
expression programs on a global scale, and are functionally active in a
cell-type-specific manner. Our results define over 55,000 potential
transcriptional enhancers in the human genome, significantly expanding the
current catalogue of human enhancers and highlighting the role of these elements 
in cell-type-specific gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07829 
PMCID: PMC2910248
PMID: 19295514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07860.

Compound vesicle fusion increases quantal size and potentiates synaptic
transmission.

He L(1), Xue L, Xu J, McNeil BD, Bai L, Melicoff E, Adachi R, Wu LG.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 35 Convent Drive,
Building 35, Room 2B-1012, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Exocytosis at synapses involves fusion between vesicles and the plasma membrane. 
Although compound fusion between vesicles was proposed to occur at ribbon-type
synapses, whether it exists, how it is mediated, and what role it plays at
conventional synapses remain unclear. Here we report the existence of compound
fusion, its underlying mechanism, and its role at a nerve terminal containing
conventional active zones in rats and mice. We found that high potassium
application and high frequency firing induced giant capacitance up-steps,
reflecting exocytosis of vesicles larger than regular ones, followed by giant
down-steps, reflecting bulk endocytosis. These intense stimuli also induced giant
vesicle-like structures, as observed with electron microscopy, and giant
miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), reflecting more transmitter 
release. Calcium and its sensor for vesicle fusion, synaptotagmin, were required 
for these giant events. After high frequency firing,
calcium/synaptotagmin-dependent mEPSC size increase was paralleled by
calcium/synaptotagmin-dependent post-tetanic potentiation. These results suggest 
a new route of exocytosis and endocytosis composed of three steps. First,
calcium/synaptotagmin mediates compound fusion between vesicles. Second,
exocytosis of compound vesicles increases quantal size, which increases synaptic 
strength and contributes to the generation of post-tetanic potentiation. Third,
exocytosed compound vesicles are retrieved via bulk endocytosis. We suggest that 
this vesicle cycling route be included in models of synapses in which only
vesicle fusion with the plasma membrane is considered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07860 
PMCID: PMC2768540
PMID: 19279571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07821. Epub 2009 Mar 8.

Decision-related activity in sensory neurons reflects more than a neuron's causal
effect.

Nienborg H(1), Cumming BG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, 49 Convent Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
hnienb@gmail.com

During perceptual decisions, the activity of sensory neurons correlates with a
subject's percept, even when the physical stimulus is identical. The origin of
this correlation is unknown. Current theory proposes a causal effect of noise in 
sensory neurons on perceptual decisions, but the correlation could result from
different brain states associated with the perceptual choice (a top-down
explanation). These two schemes have very different implications for the role of 
sensory neurons in forming decisions. Here we use white-noise analysis to measure
tuning functions of V2 neurons associated with choice and simultaneously measure 
how the variation in the stimulus affects the subjects' (two macaques) perceptual
decisions. In causal models, stronger effects of the stimulus upon decisions,
mediated by sensory neurons, are associated with stronger choice-related
activity. However, we find that over the time course of the trial these measures 
change in different directions-at odds with causal models. An analysis of the
effect of reward size also supports this conclusion. Finally, we find that choice
is associated with changes in neuronal gain that are incompatible with causal
models. All three results are readily explained if choice is associated with
changes in neuronal gain caused by top-down phenomena that closely resemble
attention. We conclude that top-down processes contribute to choice-related
activity. Thus, even forming simple sensory decisions involves complex
interactions between cognitive processes and sensory neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07821 
PMCID: PMC2917918
PMID: 19270683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07861. Epub 2009 Mar 8.

CBP/p300-mediated acetylation of histone H3 on lysine 56.

Das C(1), Lucia MS, Hansen KC, Tyler JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, PO Box 6511, Aurora Colorado 80045, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 27;460(7259):1164.

Acetylation within the globular core domain of histone H3 on lysine 56 (H3K56)
has recently been shown to have a critical role in packaging DNA into chromatin
following DNA replication and repair in budding yeast. However, the function or
occurrence of this specific histone mark has not been studied in multicellular
eukaryotes, mainly because the Rtt109 enzyme that is known to mediate acetylation
of H3K56 (H3K56ac) is fungal-specific. Here we demonstrate that the histone
acetyl transferase CBP (also known as Nejire) in flies and CBP and p300 (Ep300)
in humans acetylate H3K56, whereas Drosophila Sir2 and human SIRT1 and SIRT2
deacetylate H3K56ac. The histone chaperones ASF1A in humans and Asf1 in
Drosophila are required for acetylation of H3K56 in vivo, whereas the histone
chaperone CAF-1 (chromatin assembly factor 1) in humans and Caf1 in Drosophila
are required for the incorporation of histones bearing this mark into chromatin. 
We show that, in response to DNA damage, histones bearing acetylated K56 are
assembled into chromatin in Drosophila and human cells, forming foci that
colocalize with sites of DNA repair. Furthermore, acetylation of H3K56 is
increased in multiple types of cancer, correlating with increased levels of ASF1A
in these tumours. Our identification of multiple proteins regulating the levels
of H3K56 acetylation in metazoans will allow future studies of this critical and 
unique histone modification that couples chromatin assembly to DNA synthesis,
cell proliferation and cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07861 
PMCID: PMC2756583
PMID: 19270680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1180-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07774.

Orally delivered siRNA targeting macrophage Map4k4 suppresses systemic
inflammation.

Aouadi M(1), Tesz GJ, Nicoloro SM, Wang M, Chouinard M, Soto E, Ostroff GR, Czech
MP.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Gene silencing by double-stranded RNA, denoted RNA interference, represents a new
paradigm for rational drug design. However, the transformative therapeutic
potential of short interfering RNA (siRNA) has been stymied by a key
obstacle-safe delivery to specified target cells in vivo. Macrophages are
particularly attractive targets for RNA interference therapy because they promote
pathogenic inflammatory responses in diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis,
atherosclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease and diabetes. Here we report the
engineering of beta1,3-D-glucan-encapsulated siRNA particles (GeRPs) as efficient
oral delivery vehicles that potently silence genes in mouse macrophages in vitro 
and in vivo. Oral gavage of mice with GeRPs containing as little as 20 microg
kg(-1) siRNA directed against tumour necrosis factor alpha (Tnf-alpha) depleted
its messenger RNA in macrophages recovered from the peritoneum, spleen, liver and
lung, and lowered serum Tnf-alpha levels. Screening with GeRPs for inflammation
genes revealed that the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase kinase 4
(Map4k4) is a previously unknown mediator of cytokine expression. Importantly,
silencing Map4k4 in macrophages in vivo protected mice from
lipopolysaccharide-induced lethality by inhibiting Tnf-alpha and
interleukin-1beta production. This technology defines a new strategy for oral
delivery of siRNA to attenuate inflammatory responses in human disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07774 
PMCID: PMC2879154
PMID: 19407801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1163-6. doi: 10.1038/nature08019.

Warming caused by cumulative carbon emissions towards the trillionth tonne.

Allen MR(1), Frame DJ, Huntingford C, Jones CD, Lowe JA, Meinshausen M,
Meinshausen N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oxford, OX1 3PU, UK.
myles.allen@physics.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1091-4.
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1117-8.
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):909.

Global efforts to mitigate climate change are guided by projections of future
temperatures. But the eventual equilibrium global mean temperature associated
with a given stabilization level of atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations
remains uncertain, complicating the setting of stabilization targets to avoid
potentially dangerous levels of global warming. Similar problems apply to the
carbon cycle: observations currently provide only a weak constraint on the
response to future emissions. Here we use ensemble simulations of simple
climate-carbon-cycle models constrained by observations and projections from more
comprehensive models to simulate the temperature response to a broad range of
carbon dioxide emission pathways. We find that the peak warming caused by a given
cumulative carbon dioxide emission is better constrained than the warming
response to a stabilization scenario. Furthermore, the relationship between
cumulative emissions and peak warming is remarkably insensitive to the emission
pathway (timing of emissions or peak emission rate). Hence policy targets based
on limiting cumulative emissions of carbon dioxide are likely to be more robust
to scientific uncertainty than emission-rate or concentration targets. Total
anthropogenic emissions of one trillion tonnes of carbon (3.67 trillion tonnes of
CO(2)), about half of which has already been emitted since industrialization
began, results in a most likely peak carbon-dioxide-induced warming of 2 degrees 
C above pre-industrial temperatures, with a 5-95% confidence interval of 1.3-3.9 
degrees C.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08019 
PMID: 19407800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1158-62. doi: 10.1038/nature08017.

Greenhouse-gas emission targets for limiting global warming to 2 degrees C.

Meinshausen M(1), Meinshausen N, Hare W, Raper SC, Frieler K, Knutti R, Frame DJ,
Allen MR.

Author information: 
(1)Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Telegraphenberg, 14412 Potsdam,
Germany. malte.meinshausen@pik-potsdam.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1091-4.
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1117-8.
    Nature. 2009 Jun 18;459(7249):909.

More than 100 countries have adopted a global warming limit of 2 degrees C or
below (relative to pre-industrial levels) as a guiding principle for mitigation
efforts to reduce climate change risks, impacts and damages. However, the
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions corresponding to a specified maximum warming are
poorly known owing to uncertainties in the carbon cycle and the climate response.
Here we provide a comprehensive probabilistic analysis aimed at quantifying GHG
emission budgets for the 2000-50 period that would limit warming throughout the
twenty-first century to below 2 degrees C, based on a combination of published
distributions of climate system properties and observational constraints. We show
that, for the chosen class of emission scenarios, both cumulative emissions up to
2050 and emission levels in 2050 are robust indicators of the probability that
twenty-first century warming will not exceed 2 degrees C relative to
pre-industrial temperatures. Limiting cumulative CO(2) emissions over 2000-50 to 
1,000 Gt CO(2) yields a 25% probability of warming exceeding 2 degrees C-and a
limit of 1,440 Gt CO(2) yields a 50% probability-given a representative estimate 
of the distribution of climate system properties. As known 2000-06 CO(2)
emissions were approximately 234 Gt CO(2), less than half the proven economically
recoverable oil, gas and coal reserves can still be emitted up to 2050 to achieve
such a goal. Recent G8 Communiqués envisage halved global GHG emissions by 2050, 
for which we estimate a 12-45% probability of exceeding 2 degrees C-assuming 1990
as emission base year and a range of published climate sensitivity distributions.
Emissions levels in 2020 are a less robust indicator, but for the scenarios
considered, the probability of exceeding 2 degrees C rises to 53-87% if global
GHG emissions are still more than 25% above 2000 levels in 2020.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08017 
PMID: 19407799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1154-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07957.

The ITQ-37 mesoporous chiral zeolite.

Sun J(1), Bonneau C, Cantín A, Corma A, Díaz-Cabañas MJ, Moliner M, Zhang D, Li
M, Zou X.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Chemistry and Berzelii Centre, EXSELENT on Porous Materials,
Stockholm University, SE-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden.

The synthesis of crystalline molecular sieves with pore dimensions that fill the 
gap between microporous and mesoporous materials is a matter of fundamental and
industrial interest. The preparation of zeolitic materials with extralarge pores 
and chiral frameworks would permit many new applications. Two important steps in 
this direction include the synthesis of ITQ-33, a stable zeolite with 18 x 10 x
10 ring windows, and the synthesis of SU-32, which has an intrinsically chiral
zeolite structure and where each crystal exhibits only one handedness. Here we
present a germanosilicate zeolite (ITQ-37) with extralarge 30-ring windows. Its
structure was determined by combining selected area electron diffraction (SAED)
and powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) in a charge-flipping algorithm. The framework
follows the SrSi(2) (srs) minimal net and forms two unique cavities, each of
which is connected to three other cavities to form a gyroidal channel system.
These cavities comprise the enantiomorphous srs net of the framework. ITQ-37 is
the first chiral zeolite with one single gyroidal channel. It has the lowest
framework density (10.3 T atoms per 1,000 A(3)) of all existing 4-coordinated
crystalline oxide frameworks, and the pore volume of the corresponding silica
polymorph would be 0.38 cm(3) g(-1).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07957 
PMID: 19407798 


605. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1150-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07878.

The Kondo effect in ferromagnetic atomic contacts.

Calvo MR(1), Fernández-Rossier J, Palacios JJ, Jacob D, Natelson D, Untiedt C.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisica Aplicada, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de
Alicante, San Vicente del Raspeig, E-03790 Alicante, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1123-4.

Iron, cobalt and nickel are archetypal ferromagnetic metals. In bulk, electronic 
conduction in these materials takes place mainly through the s and p electrons,
whereas the magnetic moments are mostly in the narrow d-electron bands, where
they tend to align. This general picture may change at the nanoscale because
electrons at the surfaces of materials experience interactions that differ from
those in the bulk. Here we show direct evidence for such changes: electronic
transport in atomic-scale contacts of pure ferromagnets (iron, cobalt and
nickel), despite their strong bulk ferromagnetism, unexpectedly reveal Kondo
physics, that is, the screening of local magnetic moments by the conduction
electrons below a characteristic temperature. The Kondo effect creates a sharp
resonance at the Fermi energy, affecting the electrical properties of the system;
this appears as a Fano-Kondo resonance in the conductance characteristics as
observed in other artificial nanostructures. The study of hundreds of contacts
shows material-dependent log-normal distributions of the resonance width that
arise naturally from Kondo theory. These resonances broaden and disappear with
increasing temperature, also as in standard Kondo systems. Our observations,
supported by calculations, imply that coordination changes can significantly
modify magnetism at the nanoscale. Therefore, in addition to standard
micromagnetic physics, strong electronic correlations along with atomic-scale
geometry need to be considered when investigating the magnetic properties of
magnetic nanostructures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07878 
PMID: 19407797 


606. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1145-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07980.

Serial time-encoded amplified imaging for real-time observation of fast dynamic
phenomena.

Goda K(1), Tsia KK, Jalali B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA. goda@ee.ucla.edu

Ultrafast real-time optical imaging is an indispensable tool for studying
dynamical events such as shock waves, chemical dynamics in living cells, neural
activity, laser surgery and microfluidics. However, conventional CCDs
(charge-coupled devices) and their complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS)
counterparts are incapable of capturing fast dynamical processes with high
sensitivity and resolution. This is due in part to a technological limitation-it 
takes time to read out the data from sensor arrays. Also, there is the
fundamental compromise between sensitivity and frame rate; at high frame rates,
fewer photons are collected during each frame-a problem that affects nearly all
optical imaging systems. Here we report an imaging method that overcomes these
limitations and offers frame rates that are at least 1,000 times faster than
those of conventional CCDs. Our technique maps a two-dimensional (2D) image into 
a serial time-domain data stream and simultaneously amplifies the image in the
optical domain. We capture an entire 2D image using a single-pixel photodetector 
and achieve a net image amplification of 25 dB (a factor of 316). This overcomes 
the compromise between sensitivity and frame rate without resorting to cooling
and high-intensity illumination. As a proof of concept, we perform continuous
real-time imaging at a frame speed of 163 ns (a frame rate of 6.1 MHz) and a
shutter speed of 440 ps. We also demonstrate real-time imaging of microfluidic
flow and phase-explosion effects that occur during laser ablation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07980 
PMID: 19407796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1142-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07946.

Discrete sources as the origin of the Galactic X-ray ridge emission.

Revnivtsev M(1), Sazonov S, Churazov E, Forman W, Vikhlinin A, Sunyaev R.

Author information: 
(1)Excellence Cluster Universe, Technische Universität München, 85748, Garching, 
Germany. mikej@mpa-garching.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1119-21.

An unresolved X-ray glow (at energies above a few kiloelectronvolts) was
discovered about 25 years ago and found to be coincident with the Galactic
disk-the Galactic ridge X-ray emission. This emission has a spectrum
characteristic of a approximately 10(8) K optically thin thermal plasma, with a
prominent iron emission line at 6.7 keV. The gravitational well of the Galactic
disk, however, is far too shallow to confine such a hot interstellar medium;
instead, it would flow away at a velocity of a few thousand kilometres per
second, exceeding the speed of sound in the gas. To replenish the energy losses
requires a source of 10(43) erg s(-1), exceeding by orders of magnitude all
plausible energy sources in the Milky Way. An alternative is that the hot plasma 
is bound to a multitude of faint sources, which is supported by the recently
observed similarities in the X-ray and near-infrared surface brightness
distributions (the latter traces the Galactic stellar distribution). Here we
report that at energies of approximately 6-7 keV, more than 80 per cent of the
seemingly diffuse X-ray emission is resolved into discrete sources, probably
accreting white dwarfs and coronally active stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07946 
PMID: 19407795 


608. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1127-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07986.

Cytoplasmic functions of the tumour suppressor p53.

Green DR(1), Kroemer G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA. douglas.green@stjude.org

The principal tumour-suppressor protein, p53, accumulates in cells in response to
DNA damage, oncogene activation and other stresses. It acts as a nuclear
transcription factor that transactivates genes involved in apoptosis, cell cycle 
regulation and numerous other processes. An emerging area of research unravels
additional activities of p53 in the cytoplasm, where it triggers apoptosis and
inhibits autophagy. These previously unknown functions contribute to the mission 
of p53 as a tumour suppressor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07986 
PMCID: PMC2814168
PMID: 19407794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1171-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07886. Epub 2009 Apr 6.

A hub-and-spoke circuit drives pheromone attraction and social behaviour in C.
elegans.

Macosko EZ(1), Pokala N, Feinberg EH, Chalasani SH, Butcher RA, Clardy J,
Bargmann CI.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Laboratory of Neural Circuits and Behavior,
The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1124-5.

Innate social behaviours emerge from neuronal circuits that interpret sensory
information on the basis of an individual's own genotype, sex and experience. The
regulated aggregation behaviour of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, a simple 
animal with only 302 neurons, is an attractive system to analyse these circuits. 
Wild social strains of C. elegans aggregate in the presence of specific sensory
cues, but solitary strains do not. Here we identify the RMG inter/motor neuron as
the hub of a regulated circuit that controls aggregation and related behaviours. 
RMG is the central site of action of the neuropeptide receptor gene npr-1, which 
distinguishes solitary strains (high npr-1 activity) from wild social strains
(low npr-1 activity); high RMG activity is essential for all aspects of social
behaviour. Anatomical gap junctions connect RMG to several classes of sensory
neurons known to promote aggregation, and to ASK sensory neurons, which are
implicated in male attraction to hermaphrodite pheromones. We find that ASK
neurons respond directly to pheromones, and that high RMG activity enhances ASK
responses in social strains, causing hermaphrodite attraction to pheromones at
concentrations that repel solitary hermaphrodites. The coordination of social
behaviours by RMG suggests an anatomical hub-and-spoke model for sensory
integration in aggregation, and points to functions for related circuit motifs in
the C. elegans wiring diagram.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07886 
PMCID: PMC2760495
PMID: 19349961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1136-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07975. Epub 2009 Apr 1.

Structural basis for leucine-rich nuclear export signal recognition by CRM1.

Dong X(1), Biswas A, Süel KE, Jackson LK, Martinez R, Gu H, Chook YM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at
Dallas, 6001 Forest Park, Dallas, Texas 75390-9041, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):550.

CRM1 (also known as XPO1 and exportin 1) mediates nuclear export of hundreds of
proteins through the recognition of the leucine-rich nuclear export signal
(LR-NES). Here we present the 2.9 A structure of CRM1 bound to snurportin 1
(SNUPN). Snurportin 1 binds CRM1 in a bipartite manner by means of an
amino-terminal LR-NES and its nucleotide-binding domain. The LR-NES is a combined
alpha-helical-extended structure that occupies a hydrophobic groove between two
CRM1 outer helices. The LR-NES interface explains the consensus hydrophobic
pattern, preference for intervening electronegative residues and inhibition by
leptomycin B. The second nuclear export signal epitope is a basic surface on the 
snurportin 1 nucleotide-binding domain, which binds an acidic patch on CRM1
adjacent to the LR-NES site. Multipartite recognition of individually weak
nuclear export signal epitopes may be common to CRM1 substrates, enhancing CRM1
binding beyond the generally low affinity LR-NES. Similar energetic construction 
is also used in multipartite nuclear localization signals to provide broad
substrate specificity and rapid evolution in nuclear transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07975 
PMCID: PMC3437623
PMID: 19339969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1167-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07974. Epub 2009 Apr 1.

Evolutionary diversification in stickleback affects ecosystem functioning.

Harmon LJ(1), Matthews B, Des Roches S, Chase JM, Shurin JB, Schluter D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho
83844-3051, USA. lukeh@uidaho.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1122-3.

Explaining the ecological causes of evolutionary diversification is a major focus
of biology, but surprisingly little has been said about the effects of
evolutionary diversification on ecosystems. The number of species in an ecosystem
and their traits are key predictors of many ecosystem-level processes, such as
rates of productivity, biomass sequestration and decomposition. Here we
demonstrate short-term ecosystem-level effects of adaptive radiation in the
threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) over the past 10,000 years. These
fish have undergone recent parallel diversification in several lakes in coastal
British Columbia, resulting in the formation of two specialized species (benthic 
and limnetic) from a generalist ancestor. Using a mesocosm experiment, we
demonstrate that this diversification has strong effects on ecosystems, affecting
prey community structure, total primary production, and the nature of dissolved
organic materials that regulate the spectral properties of light transmission in 
the system. However, these ecosystem effects do not simply increase in their
relative strength with increasing specialization and species richness; instead,
they reflect the complex and indirect consequences of ecosystem engineering by
sticklebacks. It is well known that ecological factors influence adaptive
radiation. We demonstrate that adaptive radiation, even over short timescales,
can have profound effects on ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07974 
PMID: 19339968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1131-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07976. Epub 2009 Apr 1.

Autophagy regulates lipid metabolism.

Singh R(1), Kaushik S, Wang Y, Xiang Y, Novak I, Komatsu M, Tanaka K, Cuervo AM, 
Czaja MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park 
Avenue, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2009 Aug;50(2):645-7.
    Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1118-9.

The intracellular storage and utilization of lipids are critical to maintain
cellular energy homeostasis. During nutrient deprivation, cellular lipids stored 
as triglycerides in lipid droplets are hydrolysed into fatty acids for energy. A 
second cellular response to starvation is the induction of autophagy, which
delivers intracellular proteins and organelles sequestered in double-membrane
vesicles (autophagosomes) to lysosomes for degradation and use as an energy
source. Lipolysis and autophagy share similarities in regulation and function but
are not known to be interrelated. Here we show a previously unknown function for 
autophagy in regulating intracellular lipid stores (macrolipophagy). Lipid
droplets and autophagic components associated during nutrient deprivation, and
inhibition of autophagy in cultured hepatocytes and mouse liver increased
triglyceride storage in lipid droplets. This study identifies a critical function
for autophagy in lipid metabolism that could have important implications for
human diseases with lipid over-accumulation such as those that comprise the
metabolic syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07976 
PMCID: PMC2676208
PMID: 19339967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1185-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07924. Epub 2009 Mar
25.

Zc3h12a is an RNase essential for controlling immune responses by regulating mRNA
decay.

Matsushita K(1), Takeuchi O, Standley DM, Kumagai Y, Kawagoe T, Miyake T, Satoh
T, Kato H, Tsujimura T, Nakamura H, Akira S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Host Defense, WPI Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka
University, 3-1 Yamada-oka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) recognize microbial components, and evoke inflammation
and immune responses. TLR stimulation activates complex gene expression networks 
that regulate the magnitude and duration of the immune reaction. Here we identify
the TLR-inducible gene Zc3h12a as an immune response modifier that has an
essential role in preventing immune disorders. Zc3h12a-deficient mice suffered
from severe anaemia, and most died within 12 weeks. Zc3h12a(-/-) mice also showed
augmented serum immunoglobulin levels and autoantibody production, together with 
a greatly increased number of plasma cells, as well as infiltration of plasma
cells to the lung. Most Zc3h12a(-/-) splenic T cells showed effector/memory
characteristics and produced interferon-gamma in response to T-cell receptor
stimulation. Macrophages from Zc3h12a(-/-) mice showed highly increased
production of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-12p40 (also known as IL12b), but not TNF,
in response to TLR ligands. Although the activation of TLR signalling pathways
was normal, Il6 messenger RNA decay was severely impaired in Zc3h12a(-/-)
macrophages. Overexpression of Zc3h12a accelerated Il6 mRNA degradation via its
3'-untranslated region (UTR), and destabilized RNAs with 3'-UTRs for genes
including Il6, Il12p40 and the calcitonin receptor gene Calcr. Zc3h12a contains a
putative amino-terminal nuclease domain, and the expressed protein had RNase
activity, consistent with a role in the decay of Il6 mRNA. Together, these
results indicate that Zc3h12a is an essential RNase that prevents immune
disorders by directly controlling the stability of a set of inflammatory genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07924 
PMID: 19322177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1201-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07844. Epub 2009 Mar 8.

Embryonic stem cells use ZFP809 to silence retroviral DNAs.

Wolf D(1), Goff SP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons, HHSC 1310,
701 West 168th Street, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and other primitive stem cells of mice have been
known for more than 30 years to potently block retrovirus replication. Infection 
of ESCs by the murine leukaemia viruses (MLVs) results in the normal
establishment of integrated proviral DNA, but this DNA is then transcriptionally 
silenced, preventing further viral spread. The repression is largely mediated by 
trans-acting factors that recognize a conserved sequence element termed the
primer binding site, an 18-base pair sequence complementary to the 3' end of a
cellular transfer RNA. A specific tRNA is annealed to the primer binding site
sequence of the viral genomic RNA, and is used to prime DNA synthesis. This same 
sequence in the context of the integrated proviral DNA is targeted for silencing 
in ESCs. We have recently shown that a large protein complex binding to the
primer binding site in ESCs contains TRIM28 (refs 8, 9), a well-characterized
transcriptional co-repressor. An important question remains as to the identity of
the factor that directly recognizes integrated retroviral DNAs and recruits
TRIM28 to mediate their specific silencing. Here we identify the zinc finger
protein ZFP809 as the recognition molecule that bridges the integrated proviral
DNA and TRIM28. We show that expression of ZFP809 is sufficient to render even
differentiated cells highly resistant to MLV infection. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that ZFP809 is able to potently block transcription from DNA
constructs of human T-cell lymphotropic virus-1 (HTLV-1), which use the same
primer tRNA. These results identify ZFP809 as a DNA-binding factor that
specifically recognizes a large subset of mammalian retroviruses and
retroelements, targeting them for transcriptional silencing. We propose that
ZFP809 evolved as a stem-cell-specific retroviral restriction factor, and
therefore constitutes a new component of the intrinsic immune system of stem
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07844 
PMCID: PMC2676211
PMID: 19270682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1176-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07822. Epub 2009 Mar 1.

Toxin B is essential for virulence of Clostridium difficile.

Lyras D(1), O'Connor JR, Howarth PM, Sambol SP, Carter GP, Phumoonna T, Poon R,
Adams V, Vedantam G, Johnson S, Gerding DN, Rood JI.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Bacterial Pathogenesis Program, Department of Microbiology, Monash 
University, Victoria 3800, Australia.

Clostridium difficile is the leading cause of infectious diarrhoea in hospitals
worldwide, because of its virulence, spore-forming ability and persistence. C.
difficile-associated diseases are induced by antibiotic treatment or disruption
of the normal gastrointestinal flora. Recently, morbidity and mortality resulting
from C. difficile-associated diseases have increased significantly due to changes
in the virulence of the causative strains and antibiotic usage patterns. Since
2002, epidemic toxinotype III NAP1/027 strains, which produce high levels of the 
major virulence factors, toxin A and toxin B, have emerged. These toxins have 63%
amino acid sequence similarity and are members of the large clostridial
glucosylating toxin family, which are monoglucosyltransferases that are
pro-inflammatory, cytotoxic and enterotoxic in the human colon. Inside host
cells, both toxins catalyse the transfer of glucose onto the Rho family of
GTPases, leading to cell death. However, the role of these toxins in the context 
of a C. difficile infection is unknown. Here we describe the construction of
isogenic tcdA and tcdB (encoding toxin A and B, respectively) mutants of a
virulent C. difficile strain and their use in the hamster disease model to show
that toxin B is a key virulence determinant. Previous studies showed that
purified toxin A alone can induce most of the pathology observed after infection 
of hamsters with C. difficile and that toxin B is not toxic in animals unless it 
is co-administered with toxin A, suggesting that the toxins act synergistically. 
Our work provides evidence that toxin B, not toxin A, is essential for virulence.
Furthermore, it is clear that the importance of these toxins in the context of
infection cannot be predicted exclusively from studies using purified toxins,
reinforcing the importance of using the natural infection process to dissect the 
role of toxins in disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07822 
PMCID: PMC2679968
PMID: 19252482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1191-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07830. Epub 2009 Mar 1.

The structural basis of lipopolysaccharide recognition by the TLR4-MD-2 complex.

Park BS(1), Song DH, Kim HM, Choi BS, Lee H, Lee JO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, KAIST, Daejeon, 305-701, Korea.

The lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Gram negative bacteria is a well-known inducer of
the innate immune response. Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 and myeloid
differentiation factor 2 (MD-2) form a heterodimer that recognizes a common
'pattern' in structurally diverse LPS molecules. To understand the ligand
specificity and receptor activation mechanism of the TLR4-MD-2-LPS complex we
determined its crystal structure. LPS binding induced the formation of an
m-shaped receptor multimer composed of two copies of the TLR4-MD-2-LPS complex
arranged symmetrically. LPS interacts with a large hydrophobic pocket in MD-2 and
directly bridges the two components of the multimer. Five of the six lipid chains
of LPS are buried deep inside the pocket and the remaining chain is exposed to
the surface of MD-2, forming a hydrophobic interaction with the conserved
phenylalanines of TLR4. The F126 loop of MD-2 undergoes localized structural
change and supports this core hydrophobic interface by making hydrophilic
interactions with TLR4. Comparison with the structures of tetra-acylated
antagonists bound to MD-2 indicates that two other lipid chains in LPS displace
the phosphorylated glucosamine backbone by approximately 5 A towards the solvent 
area. This structural shift allows phosphate groups of LPS to contribute to
receptor multimerization by forming ionic interactions with a cluster of
positively charged residues in TLR4 and MD-2. The TLR4-MD-2-LPS structure
illustrates the remarkable versatility of the ligand recognition mechanisms
employed by the TLR family, which is essential for defence against diverse
microbial infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07830 
PMID: 19252480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 2009 Apr 30;458(7242):1196-200. doi: 10.1038/nature07862. Epub 2009 Mar
1.

A mutation in Ihh that causes digit abnormalities alters its signalling capacity 
and range.

Gao B(1), Hu J, Stricker S, Cheung M, Ma G, Law KF, Witte F, Briscoe J, Mundlos
S, He L, Cheah KS, Chan D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, the University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Brachydactyly type A1 (BDA1) was the first recorded disorder of the autosomal
dominant Mendelian trait in humans, characterized by shortened or absent middle
phalanges in digits. It is associated with heterozygous missense mutations in
indian hedgehog (IHH). Hedgehog proteins are important morphogens for a wide
range of developmental processes. The capacity and range of signalling is thought
to be regulated by its interaction with the receptor PTCH1 and antagonist HIP1.
Here we show that a BDA1 mutation (E95K) in Ihh impairs the interaction of IHH
with PTCH1 and HIP1. This is consistent with a recent paper showing that BDA1
mutations cluster in a calcium-binding site essential for the interaction with
its receptor and cell-surface partners. Furthermore, we show that in a mouse
model that recapitulates the E95K mutation, there is a change in the potency and 
range of signalling. The mice have digit abnormalities consistent with the human 
disorder.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07862 
PMID: 19252479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1047-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07967.

Discovery of insect and human dengue virus host factors.

Sessions OM(1), Barrows NJ, Souza-Neto JA, Robinson TJ, Hershey CL, Rodgers MA,
Ramirez JL, Dimopoulos G, Yang PL, Pearson JL, Garcia-Blanco MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Dengue fever is the most frequent arthropod-borne viral disease of humans, with
almost half of the world's population at risk of infection. The high prevalence, 
lack of an effective vaccine, and absence of specific treatment conspire to make 
dengue fever a global public health threat. Given their compact genomes, dengue
viruses (DENV-1-4) and other flaviviruses probably require an extensive number of
host factors; however, only a limited number of human, and an even smaller number
of insect host factors, have been identified. Here we identify insect host
factors required for DENV-2 propagation, by carrying out a genome-wide RNA
interference screen in Drosophila melanogaster cells using a well-established
22,632 double-stranded RNA library. This screen identified 116 candidate dengue
virus host factors (DVHFs). Although some were previously associated with
flaviviruses (for example, V-ATPases and alpha-glucosidases), most of the DVHFs
were newly implicated in dengue virus propagation. The dipteran DVHFs had 82
readily recognizable human homologues and, using a targeted short-interfering-RNA
screen, we showed that 42 of these are human DVHFs. This indicates notable
conservation of required factors between dipteran and human hosts. This work
suggests new approaches to control infection in the insect vector and the
mammalian host.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07967 
PMCID: PMC3462662
PMID: 19396146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1021-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07985.

A semi-aquatic Arctic mammalian carnivore from the Miocene epoch and origin of
Pinnipedia.

Rybczynski N(1), Dawson MR, Tedford RH.

Author information: 
(1)Canadian Museum of Nature, PO Box 3443 STN D, Ottawa, Ontario K1P 6P4, Canada.
nrybczynski@mus-nature.ca

Modern pinnipeds (seals, sea lions and the walrus) are semi-aquatic, generally
marine carnivores the limbs of which have been modified into flippers. Recent
phylogenetic studies using morphological and molecular evidence support pinniped 
monophyly, and suggest a sister relationship with ursoids (for example bears) or 
musteloids (the clade that includes skunks, badgers, weasels and otters).
Although the position of pinnipeds within modern carnivores appears moderately
well resolved, fossil evidence of the morphological steps leading from a
terrestrial ancestor to the modern marine forms has been weak or contentious. The
earliest well-represented fossil pinniped is Enaliarctos, a marine form with
flippers, which had appeared on the northwestern shores of North America by the
early Miocene epoch. Here we report the discovery of a nearly complete skeleton
of a new semi-aquatic carnivore from an early Miocene lake deposit in Nunavut,
Canada, that represents a morphological link in early pinniped evolution. The new
taxon retains a long tail and the proportions of its fore- and hindlimbs are more
similar to those of modern terrestrial carnivores than to modern pinnipeds.
Morphological traits indicative of semi-aquatic adaptation include a forelimb
with a prominent deltopectoral ridge on the humerus, a posterodorsally expanded
scapula, a pelvis with relatively short ilium, a shortened femur and flattened
phalanges, suggestive of webbing. The new fossil shows evidence of pinniped
affinities and similarities to the early Oligocene Amphicticeps from Asia and the
late Oligocene and Miocene Potamotherium from Europe. The discovery suggests that
the evolution of pinnipeds included a freshwater transitional phase, and may
support the hypothesis that the Arctic was an early centre of pinniped evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07985 
PMID: 19396145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1018-20. doi: 10.1038/nature07950.

The architecture of mutualistic networks minimizes competition and increases
biodiversity.

Bastolla U(1), Fortuna MA, Pascual-García A, Ferrera A, Luque B, Bascompte J.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid - CSIC, Madrid
28049, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):979-80.

The main theories of biodiversity either neglect species interactions or assume
that species interact randomly with each other. However, recent empirical work
has revealed that ecological networks are highly structured, and the lack of a
theory that takes into account the structure of interactions precludes further
assessment of the implications of such network patterns for biodiversity. Here we
use a combination of analytical and empirical approaches to quantify the
influence of network architecture on the number of coexisting species. As a case 
study we consider mutualistic networks between plants and their animal
pollinators or seed dispersers. These networks have been found to be highly
nested, with the more specialist species interacting only with proper subsets of 
the species that interact with the more generalist. We show that nestedness
reduces effective interspecific competition and enhances the number of coexisting
species. Furthermore, we show that a nested network will naturally emerge if new 
species are more likely to enter the community where they have minimal
competitive load. Nested networks seem to occur in many biological and social
contexts, suggesting that our results are relevant in a wide range of fields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07950 
PMID: 19396144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1014-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07949.

Impact of changes in diffuse radiation on the global land carbon sink.

Mercado LM(1), Bellouin N, Sitch S, Boucher O, Huntingford C, Wild M, Cox PM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Wallingford OX10 8BB, UK. lmme@ceh.ac.uk

Plant photosynthesis tends to increase with irradiance. However, recent
theoretical and observational studies have demonstrated that photosynthesis is
also more efficient under diffuse light conditions. Changes in cloud cover or
atmospheric aerosol loadings, arising from either volcanic or anthropogenic
emissions, alter both the total photosynthetically active radiation reaching the 
surface and the fraction of this radiation that is diffuse, with uncertain
overall effects on global plant productivity and the land carbon sink. Here we
estimate the impact of variations in diffuse fraction on the land carbon sink
using a global model modified to account for the effects of variations in both
direct and diffuse radiation on canopy photosynthesis. We estimate that
variations in diffuse fraction, associated largely with the 'global dimming'
period, enhanced the land carbon sink by approximately one-quarter between 1960
and 1999. However, under a climate mitigation scenario for the twenty-first
century in which sulphate aerosols decline before atmospheric CO(2) is
stabilized, this 'diffuse-radiation' fertilization effect declines rapidly to
near zero by the end of the twenty-first century.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07949 
PMID: 19396143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1009-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07944.

The carbon balance of terrestrial ecosystems in China.

Piao S(1), Fang J, Ciais P, Peylin P, Huang Y, Sitch S, Wang T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, College of Urban and Environmental Science, and Key
Laboratory for Earth Surface Processes of the Ministry of Education, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, China. slpiao@pku.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):977-9.

Global terrestrial ecosystems absorbed carbon at a rate of 1-4 Pg yr(-1) during
the 1980s and 1990s, offsetting 10-60 per cent of the fossil-fuel emissions. The 
regional patterns and causes of terrestrial carbon sources and sinks, however,
remain uncertain. With increasing scientific and political interest in regional
aspects of the global carbon cycle, there is a strong impetus to better
understand the carbon balance of China. This is not only because China is the
world's most populous country and the largest emitter of fossil-fuel CO(2) into
the atmosphere, but also because it has experienced regionally distinct land-use 
histories and climate trends, which together control the carbon budget of its
ecosystems. Here we analyse the current terrestrial carbon balance of China and
its driving mechanisms during the 1980s and 1990s using three different methods: 
biomass and soil carbon inventories extrapolated by satellite greenness
measurements, ecosystem models and atmospheric inversions. The three methods
produce similar estimates of a net carbon sink in the range of 0.19-0.26 Pg
carbon (PgC) per year, which is smaller than that in the conterminous United
States but comparable to that in geographic Europe. We find that northeast China 
is a net source of CO(2) to the atmosphere owing to overharvesting and
degradation of forests. By contrast, southern China accounts for more than 65 per
cent of the carbon sink, which can be attributed to regional climate change,
large-scale plantation programmes active since the 1980s and shrub recovery.
Shrub recovery is identified as the most uncertain factor contributing to the
carbon sink. Our data and model results together indicate that China's
terrestrial ecosystems absorbed 28-37 per cent of its cumulated fossil carbon
emissions during the 1980s and 1990s.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07944 
PMID: 19396142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1005-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07945.

Observation of ultralong-range Rydberg molecules.

Bendkowsky V(1), Butscher B, Nipper J, Shaffer JP, Löw R, Pfau T.

Author information: 
(1)5. Physikalisches Institut, Universität Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany. v.bendkowsky@physik.uni-stuttgart.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):975-6.

Rydberg atoms have an electron in a state with a very high principal quantum
number, and as a result can exhibit unusually long-range interactions. One
example is the bonding of two such atoms by multipole forces to form
Rydberg-Rydberg molecules with very large internuclear distances. Notably,
bonding interactions can also arise from the low-energy scattering of a Rydberg
electron with negative scattering length from a ground-state atom. In this case, 
the scattering-induced attractive interaction binds the ground-state atom to the 
Rydberg atom at a well-localized position within the Rydberg electron
wavefunction and thereby yields giant molecules that can have internuclear
separations of several thousand Bohr radii. Here we report the spectroscopic
characterization of such exotic molecular states formed by rubidium Rydberg atoms
that are in the spherically symmetric s state and have principal quantum numbers,
n, between 34 and 40. We find that the spectra of the vibrational ground state
and of the first excited state of the Rydberg molecule, the rubidium dimer
Rb(5s)-Rb(ns), agree well with simple model predictions. The data allow us to
extract the s-wave scattering length for scattering between the Rydberg electron 
and the ground-state atom, Rb(5s), in the low-energy regime (kinetic energy, <100
meV), and to determine the lifetimes and the polarizabilities of the Rydberg
molecules. Given our successful characterization of s-wave bound Rydberg states, 
we anticipate that p-wave bound states, trimer states and bound states involving 
a Rydberg electron with large angular momentum-so-called trilobite molecules-will
also be realized and directly probed in the near future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07945 
PMID: 19396141 


624. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1001-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07932.

Universal transduction scheme for nanomechanical systems based on dielectric
forces.

Unterreithmeier QP(1), Weig EM, Kotthaus JP.

Author information: 
(1)Fakultät für Physik and Center for NanoScience (CeNS),
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1, 80539 München,
Germany.

Any polarizable body placed in an inhomogeneous electric field experiences a
dielectric force. This phenomenon is well known from the macroscopic world: a
water jet is deflected when approached by a charged object. This fundamental
mechanism is exploited in a variety of contexts-for example, trapping microscopic
particles in an optical tweezer, where the trapping force is controlled via the
intensity of a laser beam, or dielectrophoresis, where electric fields are used
to manipulate particles in liquids. Here we extend the underlying concept to the 
rapidly evolving field of nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS). A broad range of 
possible applications are anticipated for these systems, but drive and detection 
schemes for nanomechanical motion still need to be optimized. Our approach is
based on the application of dielectric gradient forces for the controlled and
local transduction of NEMS. Using a set of on-chip electrodes to create an
electric field gradient, we polarize a dielectric resonator and subject it to an 
attractive force that can be modulated at high frequencies. This universal
actuation scheme is efficient, broadband and scalable. It also separates the
driving scheme from the driven mechanical element, allowing for arbitrary
polarizable materials and thus potentially ultralow dissipation NEMS. In
addition, it enables simple voltage tuning of the mechanical resonance over a
wide frequency range, because the dielectric force depends strongly on the
resonator-electrode separation. We use the modulation of the resonance frequency 
to demonstrate parametric actuation. Moreover, we reverse the actuation principle
to realize dielectric detection, thus allowing universal transduction of NEMS. We
expect this combination to be useful both in the study of fundamental principles 
and in applications such as signal processing and sensing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07932 
PMID: 19396140 


625. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):996-1000. doi: 10.1038/nature07951.

Optimized dynamical decoupling in a model quantum memory.

Biercuk MJ(1), Uys H, VanDevender AP, Shiga N, Itano WM, Bollinger JJ.

Author information: 
(1)NIST Time and Frequency Division, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.
biercuk@boulder.nist.gov

Any quantum system, such as those used in quantum information or magnetic
resonance, is subject to random phase errors that can dramatically affect the
fidelity of a desired quantum operation or measurement. In the context of quantum
information, quantum error correction techniques have been developed to correct
these errors, but resource requirements are extraordinary. The realization of a
physically tractable quantum information system will therefore be facilitated if 
qubit (quantum bit) error rates are far below the so-called fault-tolerance error
threshold, predicted to be of the order of 10(-3)-10(-6). The need to realize
such low error rates motivates a search for alternative strategies to suppress
dephasing in quantum systems. Here we experimentally demonstrate massive
suppression of qubit error rates by the application of optimized dynamical
decoupling pulse sequences, using a model quantum system capable of simulating a 
variety of qubit technologies. We demonstrate an analytically derived pulse
sequence, UDD, and find novel sequences through active, real-time experimental
feedback. The latter sequences are tailored to maximize error suppression without
the need for a priori knowledge of the ambient noise environment, and are capable
of suppressing errors by orders of magnitude compared to other existing sequences
(including the benchmark multi-pulse spin echo). Our work includes the extension 
of a treatment to predict qubit decoherence under realistic conditions, yielding 
strong agreement between experimental data and theory for arbitrary pulse
sequences incorporating nonidealized control pulses. These results demonstrate
the robustness of qubit memory error suppression through dynamical decoupling
techniques across a variety of qubit technologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07951 
PMID: 19396139 


626. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):993-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07956.

Solar wind as the origin of rapid reddening of asteroid surfaces.

Vernazza P(1), Binzel RP, Rossi A, Fulchignoni M, Birlan M.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Scientific Support Department, European Space Agency, Keplerlaan 
1, 2201 AZ Noordwijk, The Netherlands. pierre.vernazza@esa.int

A comparison of the laboratory reflectance spectra of meteorites with
observations of asteroids revealed that the latter are much 'redder', with the
spectral difference explained by 'space weathering', though the actual processes 
and timescales involved have remained controversial. A recent study of young
asteroid families concluded that they suffered only minimal space weathering.
Here we report additional observations of those families, revealing that space
weathering must be a very rapid process-the final colour of a silicate-rich
asteroid is acquired shortly after its 'birth' (within 10(6) years of undergoing 
a catastrophic collision). This rapid timescale favours solar wind implantation
as the main mechanism of space weathering, as laboratory experiments have shown
that it is the most rapid of several competing processes. We further demonstrate 
the necessity to take account of composition when evaluating weathering
effectiveness, as both laboratory and asteroid data show an apparent dependence
of weathering on olivine abundance. The rapid colour change that we find implies 
that colour trends seen among asteroids are most probably due to compositional or
surface-particle-size properties, rather than to different relative ages.
Apparently fresh surfaces most frequently seen among small near-Earth asteroids
may be the result of tidal shaking that rejuvenates their surfaces during
planetary encounters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07956 
PMID: 19396138 


627. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):E11-2; author reply E12-3. doi:
10.1038/nature07887.

Mantle skewness and ridge segmentation.

Singh SC(1), Macdonald KC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géosciences Marines, Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, 4 
place Jussieu, Paris 75252, France. singh@ipgp.jussieu.fr

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Mar 22;446(7134):409-14.

Mantle upwelling is generally assumed to be symmetric. Toomey et al. observe low 
seismic-wave velocity in off-axis mantle, and suggest that mantle upwelling is
skewed, which has important implications for asthenospheric flow, ridge
segmentation, crustal accretion, and volcanic, tectonic and hydrothermal vent
activities along the ridge axis. However, we point out here that the mantle
low-velocity zone (MLVZ) presented by Toomey et al. is not constrained by their
data. We conclude that inferences pertaining to ridge segmentation and mantle
flow are not reliable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07887 
PMID: 19396085 


628. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):987-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07936. Epub 2009 Apr 12.

Genome-wide analysis of Notch signalling in Drosophila by transgenic RNAi.

Mummery-Widmer JL(1), Yamazaki M, Stoeger T, Novatchkova M, Bhalerao S, Chen D,
Dietzl G, Dickson BJ, Knoblich JA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
(IMBA), Dr Bohr-Gasse 3.

Genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi) screens have identified near-complete sets of
genes involved in cellular processes. However, this methodology has not yet been 
used to study complex developmental processes in a tissue-specific manner. Here
we report the use of a library of Drosophila strains expressing inducible hairpin
RNAi constructs to study the Notch signalling pathway during external sensory
organ development. We assigned putative loss-of-function phenotypes to 21.2% of
the protein-coding Drosophila genes. Using secondary assays, we identified 6 new 
genes involved in asymmetric cell division and 23 novel genes regulating the
Notch signalling pathway. By integrating our phenotypic results with protein
interaction data, we constructed a genome-wide, functionally validated
interaction network governing Notch signalling and asymmetric cell division. We
used clustering algorithms to identify nuclear import pathways and the COP9
signallosome as Notch regulators. Our results show that complex developmental
processes can be analysed on a genome-wide level and provide a unique resource
for functional annotation of the Drosophila genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07936 
PMCID: PMC2988197
PMID: 19363474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1051-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07854. Epub 2009 Mar 18.

Directional Delta and Notch trafficking in Sara endosomes during asymmetric cell 
division.

Coumailleau F(1), Fürthauer M, Knoblich JA, González-Gaitán M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Geneva, 30 Quai Ernest-Ansermet,
1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Endocytosis has a crucial role during Notch signalling after the asymmetric
division of fly sensory organ precursors (SOPs): directional signalling is
mediated by differential endocytosis of the ligand Delta and the Notch effector
Sanpodo in one of the SOP daughters, pIIb. Here we show a new mechanism of
directional signalling on the basis of the trafficking of Delta and Notch
molecules already internalized in the SOP and subsequently targeted to the other 
daughter cell, pIIa. Internalized Delta and Notch traffic to an endosome marked
by the protein Sara. During SOP mitosis, Sara endosomes containing Notch and
Delta move to the central spindle and then to pIIa. Subsequently, in pIIa (but
not in pIIb) Notch appears cleaved in Sara endosomes in a gamma-secretase- and
Delta internalization-dependent manner, indicating that the release of the
intracellular Notch tail to activate Notch target genes has occurred. We thus
uncover a new mechanism to bias signalling even before asymmetric endocytosis of 
Sanpodo and Delta takes place in the daughter cells: already during SOP mitosis, 
asymmetric targeting of Delta and Notch-containing Sara endosomes will increase
Notch signalling in pIIa and decrease it in pIIb.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07854 
PMID: 19295516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1025-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07926. Epub 2009 Mar 18.

Temporally precise in vivo control of intracellular signalling.

Airan RD(1), Thompson KR, Fenno LE, Bernstein H, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):980-1.

In the study of complex mammalian behaviours, technological limitations have
prevented spatiotemporally precise control over intracellular signalling
processes. Here we report the development of a versatile family of genetically
encoded optical tools ('optoXRs') that leverage common structure-function
relationships among G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) to recruit and control,
with high spatiotemporal precision, receptor-initiated biochemical signalling
pathways. In particular, we have developed and characterized two optoXRs that
selectively recruit distinct, targeted signalling pathways in response to light. 
The two optoXRs exerted opposing effects on spike firing in nucleus accumbens in 
vivo, and precisely timed optoXR photostimulation in nucleus accumbens by itself 
sufficed to drive conditioned place preference in freely moving mice. The optoXR 
approach allows testing of hypotheses regarding the causal impact of biochemical 
signalling in behaving mammals, in a targetable and temporally precise manner.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07926 
PMID: 19295515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1043-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07812. Epub 2009 Mar 4.

Germline-encoded amino acids in the alphabeta T-cell receptor control thymic
selection.

Scott-Browne JP(1), White J, Kappler JW, Gapin L, Marrack P.

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Department of Immunology, National Jewish Health and University of 
Colorado Denver, Denver, Colorado 80206, USA. james.scott-browne@ucdenver.edu

An alphabeta T-cell response depends on the recognition of antigen plus major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) proteins by its antigen receptor (TCR). The
ability of peripheral alphabeta T cells to recognize MHC is at least partly
determined by MHC-dependent thymic selection, by which an immature T cell
survives only if its TCR can recognize self MHC. This process may allow
MHC-reactive TCRs to be selected from a repertoire with completely random and
unbiased specificities. However, analysis of thymocytes before positive selection
indicated that TCR proteins might have a predetermined ability to bind MHC. Here 
we show that specific germline-encoded amino acids in the TCR promote 'generic'
MHC recognition and control thymic selection. In mice expressing single,
rearranged TCR beta-chains, individual mutation of amino acids in the
complementarity-determining region (CDR) 2beta to Ala reduced development of the 
entire TCR repertoire. Altogether, these results show that thymic selection is
controlled by germline-encoded MHC contact points in the alphabeta TCR and
indicate that the diversity of the peripheral T-cell repertoire is enhanced by
this 'built-in' specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07812 
PMCID: PMC2679808
PMID: 19262510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1034-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07831. Epub 2009 Mar 4.

Glycerol monolaurate prevents mucosal SIV transmission.

Li Q(1), Estes JD, Schlievert PM, Duan L, Brosnahan AJ, Southern PJ, Reilly CS,
Peterson ML, Schultz-Darken N, Brunner KG, Nephew KR, Pambuccian S, Lifson JD,
Carlis JV, Haase AT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Medical School, University of Minnesota, MMC 196, 
420 Delaware Street S.E., Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

Although there has been great progress in treating human immunodeficiency virus 1
(HIV-1) infection, preventing transmission has thus far proven an elusive goal.
Indeed, recent trials of a candidate vaccine and microbicide have been
disappointing, both for want of efficacy and concerns about increased rates of
transmission. Nonetheless, studies of vaginal transmission in the simian
immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-rhesus macaque (Macacca mulatta) model point to
opportunities at the earliest stages of infection in which a vaccine or
microbicide might be protective, by limiting the expansion of infected founder
populations at the portal of entry. Here we show in this SIV-macaque model, that 
an outside-in endocervical mucosal signalling system, involving MIP-3alpha (also 
known as CCL20), plasmacytoid dendritic cells and CCR5(+ )cell-attracting
chemokines produced by these cells, in combination with the innate immune and
inflammatory responses to infection in both cervix and vagina, recruits CD4(+) T 
cells to fuel this obligate expansion. We then show that glycerol monolaurate-a
widely used antimicrobial compound with inhibitory activity against the
production of MIP-3alpha and other proinflammatory cytokines-can inhibit mucosal 
signalling and the innate and inflammatory response to HIV-1 and SIV in vitro,
and in vivo it can protect rhesus macaques from acute infection despite repeated 
intra-vaginal exposure to high doses of SIV. This new approach, plausibly linked 
to interfering with innate host responses that recruit the target cells necessary
to establish systemic infection, opens a promising new avenue for the development
of effective interventions to block HIV-1 mucosal transmission.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07831 
PMCID: PMC2785041
PMID: 19262509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1056-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07813.

AMPK regulates energy expenditure by modulating NAD+ metabolism and SIRT1
activity.

Cantó C(1), Gerhart-Hines Z, Feige JN, Lagouge M, Noriega L, Milne JC, Elliott
PJ, Puigserver P, Auwerx J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire,
CNRS/INSERM/ULP, 67404 Illkirch, France.

AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a metabolic fuel gauge conserved along the
evolutionary scale in eukaryotes that senses changes in the intracellular AMP/ATP
ratio. Recent evidence indicated an important role for AMPK in the therapeutic
benefits of metformin, thiazolidinediones and exercise, which form the
cornerstones of the clinical management of type 2 diabetes and associated
metabolic disorders. In general, activation of AMPK acts to maintain cellular
energy stores, switching on catabolic pathways that produce ATP, mostly by
enhancing oxidative metabolism and mitochondrial biogenesis, while switching off 
anabolic pathways that consume ATP. This regulation can take place acutely,
through the regulation of fast post-translational events, but also by
transcriptionally reprogramming the cell to meet energetic needs. Here we
demonstrate that AMPK controls the expression of genes involved in energy
metabolism in mouse skeletal muscle by acting in coordination with another
metabolic sensor, the NAD+-dependent type III deacetylase SIRT1. AMPK enhances
SIRT1 activity by increasing cellular NAD+ levels, resulting in the deacetylation
and modulation of the activity of downstream SIRT1 targets that include the
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha and the
forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) and O3 (FOXO3a) transcription factors. The AMPK-induced
SIRT1-mediated deacetylation of these targets explains many of the convergent
biological effects of AMPK and SIRT1 on energy metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07813 
PMCID: PMC3616311
PMID: 19262508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1030-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07820. Epub 2009 Mar 4.

Natural variation in a neural globin tunes oxygen sensing in wild Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Persson A(1), Gross E, Laurent P, Busch KE, Bretes H, de Bono M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Behaviours evolve by iterations of natural selection, but we have few insights
into the molecular and neural mechanisms involved. Here we show that some
Caenorhabditis elegans wild strains switch between two foraging behaviours in
response to subtle changes in ambient oxygen. This finely tuned switch is
conferred by a naturally variable hexacoordinated globin, GLB-5. GLB-5 acts with 
the atypical soluble guanylate cyclases, which are a different type of oxygen
binding protein, to tune the dynamic range of oxygen-sensing neurons close to
atmospheric (21%) concentrations. Calcium imaging indicates that one group of
these neurons is activated when oxygen rises towards 21%, and is inhibited as
oxygen drops below 21%. The soluble guanylate cyclase GCY-35 is required for high
oxygen to activate the neurons; GLB-5 provides inhibitory input when oxygen
decreases below 21%. Together, these oxygen binding proteins tune neuronal and
behavioural responses to a narrow oxygen concentration range close to atmospheric
levels. The effect of the glb-5 gene on oxygen sensing and foraging is modified
by the naturally variable neuropeptide receptor npr-1 (refs 4, 5), providing
insights into how polygenic variation reshapes neural circuit function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07820 
PMID: 19262507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2009 Apr 23;458(7241):1039-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07811. Epub 2009 Feb
25.

Identification of IFRD1 as a modifier gene for cystic fibrosis lung disease.

Gu Y(1), Harley IT, Henderson LB, Aronow BJ, Vietor I, Huber LA, Harley JB,
Kilpatrick JR, Langefeld CD, Williams AH, Jegga AG, Chen J, Wills-Karp M, Arshad 
SH, Ewart SL, Thio CL, Flick LM, Filippi MD, Grimes HL, Drumm ML, Cutting GR,
Knowles MR, Karp CL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Immunology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Research
Foundation and the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio
45229, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2009 Aug;76(2):148-9.

Lung disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in cystic fibrosis, an
autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in CFTR. In cystic fibrosis,
chronic infection and dysregulated neutrophilic inflammation lead to progressive 
airway destruction. The severity of cystic fibrosis lung disease has considerable
heritability, independent of CFTR genotype. To identify genetic modifiers, here
we performed a genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism scan in one cohort of
cystic fibrosis patients, replicating top candidates in an independent cohort.
This approach identified IFRD1 as a modifier of cystic fibrosis lung disease
severity. IFRD1 is a histone-deacetylase-dependent transcriptional co-regulator
expressed during terminal neutrophil differentiation. Neutrophils, but not
macrophages, from Ifrd1-deficient mice showed blunted effector function,
associated with decreased NF-kappaB p65 transactivation. In vivo, IFRD1
deficiency caused delayed bacterial clearance from the airway, but also less
inflammation and disease-a phenotype primarily dependent on haematopoietic cell
expression, or lack of expression, of IFRD1. In humans, IFRD1 polymorphisms were 
significantly associated with variation in neutrophil effector function. These
data indicate that IFRD1 modulates the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis lung
disease through the regulation of neutrophil effector function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07811 
PMCID: PMC2841516
PMID: 19242412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):919-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07973.

An unusual mechanism of thymidylate biosynthesis in organisms containing the thyX
gene.

Koehn EM(1), Fleischmann T, Conrad JA, Palfey BA, Lesley SA, Mathews II, Kohen A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):840-1.

Biosynthesis of the DNA base thymine depends on activity of the enzyme
thymidylate synthase to catalyse the methylation of the uracil moiety of
2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate. All known thymidylate synthases rely on an
active site residue of the enzyme to activate 2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate.
This functionality has been demonstrated for classical thymidylate synthases,
including human thymidylate synthase, and is instrumental in mechanism-based
inhibition of these enzymes. Here we report an example of thymidylate
biosynthesis that occurs without an enzymatic nucleophile. This unusual
biosynthetic pathway occurs in organisms containing the thyX gene, which codes
for a flavin-dependent thymidylate synthase (FDTS), and is present in several
human pathogens. Our findings indicate that the putative active site nucleophile 
is not required for FDTS catalysis, and no alternative nucleophilic residues
capable of serving this function can be identified. Instead, our findings suggest
that a hydride equivalent (that is, a proton and two electrons) is transferred
from the reduced flavin cofactor directly to the uracil ring, followed by an
isomerization of the intermediate to form the product,
2'-deoxythymidine-5'-monophosphate. These observations indicate a very different 
chemical cascade than that of classical thymidylate synthases or any other known 
biological methylation. The findings and chemical mechanism proposed here,
together with available structural data, suggest that selective inhibition of
FDTSs, with little effect on human thymine biosynthesis, should be feasible.
Because several human pathogens depend on FDTS for DNA biosynthesis, its unique
mechanism makes it an attractive target for antibiotic drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07973 
PMCID: PMC2759699
PMID: 19370033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):881-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07933.

Rapid sea-level rise and reef back-stepping at the close of the last interglacial
highstand.

Blanchon P(1), Eisenhauer A, Fietzke J, Liebetrau V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Marine & Limnological Sciences, National Autonomous University of
Mexico, AP1152, Cancun, 77500 Quintana Roo, Mexico. blanchon@icmyl.unam.mx

Widespread evidence of a +4-6-m sea-level highstand during the last interglacial 
period (Marine Isotope Stage 5e) has led to warnings that modern ice sheets will 
deteriorate owing to global warming and initiate a rise of similar magnitude by
ad 2100 (ref. 1). The rate of this projected rise is based on ice-sheet melting
simulations and downplays discoveries of more rapid ice loss. Knowing the rate at
which sea level reached its highstand during the last interglacial period is
fundamental in assessing if such rapid ice-loss processes could lead to future
catastrophic sea-level rise. The best direct record of sea level during this
highstand comes from well-dated fossil reefs in stable areas. However, this
record lacks both reef-crest development up to the full highstand elevation, as
inferred from widespread intertidal indicators at +6 m, and a detailed
chronology, owing to the difficulty of replicating U-series ages on submillennial
timescales. Here we present a complete reef-crest sequence for the last
interglacial highstand and its U-series chronology from the stable northeast
Yucatán peninsula, Mexico. We find that reef development during the highstand was
punctuated by reef-crest demise at +3 m and back-stepping to +6 m. The abrupt
demise of the lower-reef crest, but continuous accretion between the
lower-lagoonal unit and the upper-reef crest, allows us to infer that this
back-stepping occurred on an ecological timescale and was triggered by a 2-3-m
jump in sea level. Using strictly reliable (230)Th ages of corals from the
upper-reef crest, and improved stratigraphic screening of coral ages from other
stable sites, we constrain this jump to have occurred approximately 121 kyr ago
and conclude that it supports an episode of ice-sheet instability during the
terminal phase of the last interglacial period.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07933 
PMID: 19370032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):877-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07919.

Narrow graphene nanoribbons from carbon nanotubes.

Jiao L(1), Zhang L, Wang X, Diankov G, Dai H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Laboratory for Advanced Materials, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):845-6.

Graphene nanoribbons (GNRs) are materials with properties distinct from those of 
other carbon allotropes. The all-semiconducting nature of sub-10-nm GNRs could
bypass the problem of the extreme chirality dependence of the metal or
semiconductor nature of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in future electronics. Currently,
making GNRs using lithographic, chemical or sonochemical methods is challenging. 
It is difficult to obtain GNRs with smooth edges and controllable widths at high 
yields. Here we show an approach to making GNRs by unzipping multiwalled carbon
nanotubes by plasma etching of nanotubes partly embedded in a polymer film. The
GNRs have smooth edges and a narrow width distribution (10-20 nm). Raman
spectroscopy and electrical transport measurements reveal the high quality of the
GNRs. Unzipping CNTs with well-defined structures in an array will allow the
production of GNRs with controlled widths, edge structures, placement and
alignment in a scalable fashion for device integration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07919 
PMID: 19370031 


639. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):872-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07872.

Longitudinal unzipping of carbon nanotubes to form graphene nanoribbons.

Kosynkin DV(1), Higginbotham AL, Sinitskii A, Lomeda JR, Dimiev A, Price BK, Tour
JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Rice University, MS-222, 6100 Main Street, Houston,
Texas 77005, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):845-6.

Graphene, or single-layered graphite, with its high crystallinity and interesting
semimetal electronic properties, has emerged as an exciting two-dimensional
material showing great promise for the fabrication of nanoscale devices. Thin,
elongated strips of graphene that possess straight edges, termed graphene
ribbons, gradually transform from semiconductors to semimetals as their width
increases, and represent a particularly versatile variety of graphene. Several
lithographic, chemical and synthetic procedures are known to produce microscopic 
samples of graphene nanoribbons, and one chemical vapour deposition process has
successfully produced macroscopic quantities of nanoribbons at 950 degrees C.
Here we describe a simple solution-based oxidative process for producing a nearly
100% yield of nanoribbon structures by lengthwise cutting and unravelling of
multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) side walls. Although oxidative shortening of 
MWCNTs has previously been achieved, lengthwise cutting is hitherto unreported.
Ribbon structures with high water solubility are obtained. Subsequent chemical
reduction of the nanoribbons from MWCNTs results in restoration of electrical
conductivity. These early results affording nanoribbons could eventually lead to 
applications in fields of electronics and composite materials where bulk
quantities of nanoribbons are required.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07872 
PMID: 19370030 


640. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):868-71. doi: 10.1038/nature07873.

Ballistic spin resonance.

Frolov SM(1), Lüscher S, Yu W, Ren Y, Folk JA, Wegscheider W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):841-3.

The phenomenon of spin resonance has had far-reaching influence since its
discovery 70 years ago. Electron spin resonance driven by high-frequency magnetic
fields has enhanced our understanding of quantum mechanics, and finds application
in fields as diverse as medicine and quantum information. Spin resonance can also
be induced by high-frequency electric fields in materials with a spin-orbit
interaction; the oscillation of the electrons creates a momentum-dependent
effective magnetic field acting on the electron spin. Here we report electron
spin resonance due to a spin-orbit interaction that does not require external
driving fields. The effect, which we term ballistic spin resonance, is driven by 
the free motion of electrons that bounce at frequencies of tens of gigahertz in
micrometre-scale channels of a two-dimensional electron gas. This is a frequency 
range that is experimentally challenging to access in spin resonance, and
especially difficult on a chip. The resonance is manifest in electrical
measurements of pure spin currents-we see a strong suppression of spin relaxation
length when the oscillating spin-orbit field is in resonance with spin precession
in a static magnetic field. These findings illustrate how the spin-orbit
interaction can be harnessed for spin manipulation in a spintronic circuit, and
point the way to gate-tunable coherent spin rotations in ballistic nanostructures
without external alternating current fields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07873 
PMID: 19370029 


641. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):859-64. doi: 10.1038/nature07885.

Design of protein-interaction specificity gives selective bZIP-binding peptides.

Grigoryan G(1), Reinke AW, Keating AE.

Author information: 
(1)MIT Department of Biology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA.

Interaction specificity is a required feature of biological networks and a
necessary characteristic of protein or small-molecule reagents and therapeutics. 
The ability to alter or inhibit protein interactions selectively would advance
basic and applied molecular science. Assessing or modelling interaction
specificity requires treating multiple competing complexes, which presents
computational and experimental challenges. Here we present a computational
framework for designing protein-interaction specificity and use it to identify
specific peptide partners for human basic-region leucine zipper (bZIP)
transcription factors. Protein microarrays were used to characterize designed,
synthetic ligands for all but one of 20 bZIP families. The bZIP proteins share
strong sequence and structural similarities and thus are challenging targets to
bind specifically. Nevertheless, many of the designs, including examples that
bind the oncoproteins c-Jun, c-Fos and c-Maf (also called JUN, FOS and MAF,
respectively), were selective for their targets over all 19 other families.
Collectively, the designs exhibit a wide range of interaction profiles and
demonstrate that human bZIPs have only sparsely sampled the possible interaction 
space accessible to them. Our computational method provides a way to
systematically analyse trade-offs between stability and specificity and is
suitable for use with many types of structure-scoring functions; thus, it may
prove broadly useful as a tool for protein design.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07885 
PMCID: PMC2748673
PMID: 19370028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):852-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07876.

Kinetochore geometry defined by cohesion within the centromere.

Sakuno T(1), Tada K, Watanabe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromosome Dynamics, Institute of Molecular and Cellular
Biosciences, University of Tokyo, Yayoi, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

During cell division microtubules capture chromosomes by binding to the
kinetochore assembled in the centromeric region of chromosomes. In mitosis sister
chromatids are captured by microtubules emanating from both spindle poles, a
process called bipolar attachment, whereas in meiosis I sisters are attached to
microtubules originating from one spindle pole, called monopolar attachment. For 
determining chromosome orientation, kinetochore geometry or structure might be an
important target of regulation. However, the molecular basis of this regulation
has remained elusive. Here we show the link between kinetochore orientation and
cohesion within the centromere in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe by
strategies developed to visualize the concealed cohesion within the centromere,
and to introduce artificial tethers that can influence kinetochore geometry. Our 
data imply that cohesion at the core centromere induces the mono-orientation of
kinetochores whereas cohesion at the peri-centromeric region promotes
bi-orientation. Our study may reveal a general mechanism for the geometric
regulation of kinetochores, which collaborates with previously defined
tension-dependent reorientation machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07876 
PMID: 19370027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):847-51. doi: 10.1038/nature07948.

The dawn of the particle astronomy era in ultra-high-energy cosmic rays.

Bauleo PM(1), Martino JR.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523,
USA. bauleo@lamar.colostate.edu

Cosmic rays are charged particles arriving at the Earth from space. Those at the 
highest energies are particularly interesting because the physical processes that
could create or accelerate them are at the limit of our present knowledge. They
also open the window to particle astronomy, as the magnetic fields along their
paths are not strong enough to deflect their trajectories much from a straight
line. The Pierre Auger Observatory is the largest cosmic-ray detector on Earth,
and as such is beginning to resolve past observational disagreements regarding
the origin and propagation of these particles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07948 
PMID: 19370026 


644. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):E8-9; discussion E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07916.

Tbx18 and the fate of epicardial progenitors.

Christoffels VM(1), Grieskamp T, Norden J, Mommersteeg MT, Rudat C, Kispert A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy & Embryology, Heart Failure Research Center, Academic
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 15 L2-108, 1105 AZ
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Jul 3;454(7200):104-8.

Uncovering the origins of myocardial cells is important for understanding and
treating heart diseases. Cai et al. suggest that Tbx18-expressing epicardium
provides a substantial contribution to myocytes in the ventricular septum and the
atrial and ventricular walls. Here we show that the T-box transcription factor
gene 18 (Tbx18) itself is expressed in the myocardium, showing that their genetic
lineage tracing system does not allow conclusions of an epicardial origin of
cardiomyocytes in vivo to be drawn.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07916 
PMID: 19369973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):865-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07934. Epub 2009 Mar 22.

A massive hypergiant star as the progenitor of the supernova SN 2005gl.

Gal-Yam A(1), Leonard DC.

Author information: 
(1)Benoziyo Center for Astrophysics , Faculty of Physics, The Weizmann Institute 
of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. avishay.gal-yam@weizmann.ac.il.

Our understanding of the evolution of massive stars before their final explosions
as supernovae is incomplete, from both an observational and a theoretical
standpoint. A key missing piece in the supernova puzzle is the difficulty of
identifying and studying progenitor stars. In only a single case-that of
supernova SN 1987A in the Large Magellanic Cloud-has a star been detected at the 
supernova location before the explosion, and been subsequently shown to have
vanished after the supernova event. The progenitor of SN 1987A was a blue
supergiant, which required a rethink of stellar evolution models. The progenitor 
of supernova SN 2005gl was proposed to be an extremely luminous object, but the
association was not robustly established (it was not even clear that the putative
progenitor was a single luminous star). Here we report that the previously
proposed object was indeed the progenitor star of SN 2005gl. This very massive
star was likely a luminous blue variable that standard stellar evolution predicts
should not have exploded in that state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07934 
PMID: 19305392 


646. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):885-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07929. Epub 2009 Mar 15.

Gene regulatory logic of dopamine neuron differentiation.

Flames N(1), Hobert O.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biophysics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA.
nf2171@columbia.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):843-4.

Dopamine signalling regulates a variety of complex behaviours, and defects in
dopamine neuron function or survival result in severe human pathologies, such as 
Parkinson's disease. The common denominator of all dopamine neurons is the
expression of dopamine pathway genes, which code for a set of phylogenetically
conserved proteins involved in dopamine synthesis and transport. Gene regulatory 
mechanisms that result in the direct activation of dopamine pathway genes and
thereby ultimately determine the identity of dopamine neurons are poorly
understood in all systems studied so far. Here we show that a simple
cis-regulatory element, the dopamine (DA) motif, controls the expression of all
dopamine pathway genes in all dopaminergic cell types in Caenorhabditis elegans. 
The DA motif is activated by the ETS transcription factor AST-1. Loss of ast-1
results in the failure of all distinct dopaminergic neuronal subtypes to
terminally differentiate. Ectopic expression of ast-1 is sufficient to activate
the dopamine pathway in some cellular contexts. Vertebrate dopamine pathway genes
also contain phylogenetically conserved DA motifs that can be activated by the
mouse ETS transcription factor Etv1 (also known as ER81), and a specific class of
dopamine neurons fails to differentiate in mice lacking Etv1. Moreover, ectopic
Etv1 expression induces dopaminergic fate marker expression in neuronal primary
cultures. Mouse Etv1 can also functionally substitute for ast-1 in C. elegans.
Our studies reveal a simple and apparently conserved regulatory logic of dopamine
neuron terminal differentiation and may provide new entry points into the
diagnosis or therapy of conditions in which dopamine neurons are defective.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07929 
PMCID: PMC2671564
PMID: 19287374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):894-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07848. Epub 2009 Feb 22.

Inactivation of the Fto gene protects from obesity.

Fischer J(1), Koch L, Emmerling C, Vierkotten J, Peters T, Brüning JC, Rüther U.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Animal Developmental and Molecular Biology, Heinrich Heine
University, Universitätsstr. 1, D-40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Apr 1;464(7289):E1; discussion E2.

Several independent, genome-wide association studies have identified a strong
correlation between body mass index and polymorphisms in the human FTO gene.
Common variants in the first intron define a risk allele predisposing to obesity,
with homozygotes for the risk allele weighing approximately 3 kilograms more than
homozygotes for the low risk allele. Nevertheless, the functional role of FTO in 
energy homeostasis remains elusive. Here we show that the loss of Fto in mice
leads to postnatal growth retardation and a significant reduction in adipose
tissue and lean body mass. The leanness of Fto-deficient mice develops as a
consequence of increased energy expenditure and systemic sympathetic activation, 
despite decreased spontaneous locomotor activity and relative hyperphagia. Taken 
together, these experiments provide, to our knowledge, the first direct
demonstration that Fto is functionally involved in energy homeostasis by the
control of energy expenditure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07848 
PMID: 19234441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):890-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07769. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

Neisseria meningitidis recruits factor H using protein mimicry of host
carbohydrates.

Schneider MC(1), Prosser BE, Caesar JJ, Kugelberg E, Li S, Zhang Q, Quoraishi S, 
Lovett JE, Deane JE, Sim RB, Roversi P, Johnson S, Tang CM, Lea SM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Microbiology and Infection, Imperial College, London SW7 
2AZ, UK.

The complement system is an essential component of the innate and acquired immune
system, and consists of a series of proteolytic cascades that are initiated by
the presence of microorganisms. In health, activation of complement is precisely 
controlled through membrane-bound and soluble plasma-regulatory proteins
including complement factor H (fH; ref. 2), a 155 kDa protein composed of 20
domains (termed complement control protein repeats). Many pathogens have evolved 
the ability to avoid immune-killing by recruiting host complement regulators and 
several pathogens have adapted to avoid complement-mediated killing by
sequestering fH to their surface. Here we present the structure of a complement
regulator in complex with its pathogen surface-protein ligand. This reveals how
the important human pathogen Neisseria meningitidis subverts immune responses by 
mimicking the host, using protein instead of charged-carbohydrate chemistry to
recruit the host complement regulator, fH. The structure also indicates the
molecular basis of the host-specificity of the interaction between fH and the
meningococcus, and informs attempts to develop novel therapeutics and vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07769 
PMCID: PMC2670278
PMID: 19225461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):899-903. doi: 10.1038/nature07750.

Identification of a dendritic cell receptor that couples sensing of necrosis to
immunity.

Sancho D(1), Joffre OP, Keller AM, Rogers NC, Martínez D, Hernanz-Falcón P,
Rosewell I, Reis e Sousa C.

Author information: 
(1)Immunobiology Laboratory, London Research Institute, Lincoln's Inn Fields
Laboratories, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PX, UK.

Injury or impaired clearance of apoptotic cells leads to the pathological
accumulation of necrotic corpses, which induce an inflammatory response that
initiates tissue repair. In addition, antigens present in necrotic cells can
sometimes provoke a specific immune response and it has been argued that necrosis
could explain adaptive immunity in seemingly infection-free situations, such as
after allograft transplantation or in spontaneous and therapy-induced tumour
rejection. In the mouse, the CD8alpha+ subset of dendritic cells phagocytoses
dead cell remnants and cross-primes CD8+ T cells against cell-associated
antigens. Here we show that CD8alpha+ dendritic cells use CLEC9A (also known as
DNGR-1), a recently-characterized C-type lectin, to recognize a preformed signal 
that is exposed on necrotic cells. Loss or blockade of CLEC9A does not impair the
uptake of necrotic cell material by CD8+ dendritic cells, but specifically
reduces cross-presentation of dead-cell-associated antigens in vitro and
decreases the immunogenicity of necrotic cells in vivo. The function of CLEC9A
requires a key tyrosine residue in its intracellular tail that allows the
recruitment and activation of the tyrosine kinase SYK, which is also essential
for cross-presentation of dead-cell-associated antigens. Thus, CLEC9A functions
as a SYK-coupled C-type lectin receptor to mediate sensing of necrosis by the
principal dendritic-cell subset involved in regulating cross-priming to
cell-associated antigens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07750 
PMCID: PMC2671489
PMID: 19219027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):904-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07815. Epub 2009 Feb 11.

IFNalpha activates dormant haematopoietic stem cells in vivo.

Essers MA(1), Offner S, Blanco-Bose WE, Waibler Z, Kalinke U, Duchosal MA, Trumpp
A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Stem Cells and Cancer, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum (DKFZ),
DKFZ-ZMBH Alliance, Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Maintenance of the blood system is dependent on dormant haematopoietic stem cells
(HSCs) with long-term self-renewal capacity. After injury these cells are induced
to proliferate to quickly re-establish homeostasis. The signalling molecules
promoting the exit of HSCs out of the dormant stage remain largely unknown. Here 
we show that in response to treatment of mice with interferon-alpha (IFNalpha),
HSCs efficiently exit G(0) and enter an active cell cycle. HSCs respond to
IFNalpha treatment by the increased phosphorylation of STAT1 and PKB/Akt (also
known as AKT1), the expression of IFNalpha target genes, and the upregulation of 
stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1, also known as LY6A). HSCs lacking the IFNalpha/beta
receptor (IFNAR), STAT1 (ref. 3) or Sca-1 (ref. 4) are insensitive to IFNalpha
stimulation, demonstrating that STAT1 and Sca-1 mediate IFNalpha-induced HSC
proliferation. Although dormant HSCs are resistant to the anti-proliferative
chemotherapeutic agent 5-fluoro-uracil, HSCs pre-treated (primed) with IFNalpha
and thus induced to proliferate are efficiently eliminated by 5-fluoro-uracil
exposure in vivo. Conversely, HSCs chronically activated by IFNalpha are
functionally compromised and are rapidly out-competed by non-activatable
Ifnar(-/-) cells in competitive repopulation assays. Whereas chronic activation
of the IFNalpha pathway in HSCs impairs their function, acute IFNalpha treatment 
promotes the proliferation of dormant HSCs in vivo. These data may help to
clarify the so far unexplained clinical effects of IFNalpha on leukaemic cells,
and raise the possibility for new applications of type I interferons to target
cancer stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07815 
PMID: 19212321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):914-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07745. Epub 2009 Feb 4.

The cap-snatching endonuclease of influenza virus polymerase resides in the PA
subunit.

Dias A(1), Bouvier D, Crépin T, McCarthy AA, Hart DJ, Baudin F, Cusack S, Ruigrok
RW.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Virus Host-Cell Interactions, UJF-EMBL-CNRS, UMR 5233, 6 rue Jules
Horowitz, BP181, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.

The influenza virus polymerase, a heterotrimer composed of three subunits, PA,
PB1 and PB2, is responsible for replication and transcription of the eight
separate segments of the viral RNA genome in the nuclei of infected cells. The
polymerase synthesizes viral messenger RNAs using short capped primers derived
from cellular transcripts by a unique 'cap-snatching' mechanism. The PB2 subunit 
binds the 5' cap of host pre-mRNAs, which are subsequently cleaved after 10-13
nucleotides by the viral endonuclease, hitherto thought to reside in the PB2
(ref. 5) or PB1 (ref. 2) subunits. Here we describe biochemical and structural
studies showing that the amino-terminal 209 residues of the PA subunit contain
the endonuclease active site. We show that this domain has intrinsic RNA and DNA 
endonuclease activity that is strongly activated by manganese ions, matching
observations reported for the endonuclease activity of the intact trimeric
polymerase. Furthermore, this activity is inhibited by 2,4-dioxo-4-phenylbutanoic
acid, a known inhibitor of the influenza endonuclease. The crystal structure of
the domain reveals a structural core closely resembling resolvases and type II
restriction endonucleases. The active site comprises a histidine and a cluster of
three acidic residues, conserved in all influenza viruses, which bind two
manganese ions in a configuration similar to other two-metal-dependent
endonucleases. Two active site residues have previously been shown to
specifically eliminate the polymerase endonuclease activity when mutated. These
results will facilitate the optimisation of endonuclease inhibitors as potential 
new anti-influenza drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07745 
PMID: 19194459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nature. 2009 Apr 16;458(7240):909-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07720. Epub 2009 Feb 4.

Crystal structure of an avian influenza polymerase PA(N) reveals an endonuclease 
active site.

Yuan P(1), Bartlam M, Lou Z, Chen S, Zhou J, He X, Lv Z, Ge R, Li X, Deng T,
Fodor E, Rao Z, Liu Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

The heterotrimeric influenza virus polymerase, containing the PA, PB1 and PB2
proteins, catalyses viral RNA replication and transcription in the nucleus of
infected cells. PB1 holds the polymerase active site and reportedly harbours
endonuclease activity, whereas PB2 is responsible for cap binding. The PA amino
terminus is understood to be the major functional part of the PA protein and has 
been implicated in several roles, including endonuclease and protease activities 
as well as viral RNA/complementary RNA promoter binding. Here we report the 2.2
ångström (A) crystal structure of the N-terminal 197 residues of PA, termed
PA(N), from an avian influenza H5N1 virus. The PA(N) structure has an alpha/beta 
architecture and reveals a bound magnesium ion coordinated by a motif similar to 
the (P)DX(N)(D/E)XK motif characteristic of many endonucleases. Structural
comparisons and mutagenesis analysis of the motif identified in PA(N) provide
further evidence that PA(N) holds an endonuclease active site. Furthermore,
functional analysis with in vivo ribonucleoprotein reconstitution and direct in
vitro endonuclease assays strongly suggest that PA(N) holds the endonuclease
active site and has critical roles in endonuclease activity of the influenza
virus polymerase, rather than PB1. The high conservation of this endonuclease
active site among influenza strains indicates that PA(N) is an important target
for the design of new anti-influenza therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07720 
PMID: 19194458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):750-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07858.

Oceanic nickel depletion and a methanogen famine before the Great Oxidation
Event.

Konhauser KO(1), Pecoits E, Lalonde SV, Papineau D, Nisbet EG, Barley ME, Arndt
NT, Zahnle K, Kamber BS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton 
T6G 2E3, Canada. kurtk@ualberta.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):714-5.

It has been suggested that a decrease in atmospheric methane levels triggered the
progressive rise of atmospheric oxygen, the so-called Great Oxidation Event,
about 2.4 Gyr ago. Oxidative weathering of terrestrial sulphides, increased
oceanic sulphate, and the ecological success of sulphate-reducing microorganisms 
over methanogens has been proposed as a possible cause for the methane collapse, 
but this explanation is difficult to reconcile with the rock record. Banded iron 
formations preserve a history of Precambrian oceanic elemental abundance and can 
provide insights into our understanding of early microbial life and its influence
on the evolution of the Earth system. Here we report a decline in the molar
nickel to iron ratio recorded in banded iron formations about 2.7 Gyr ago, which 
we attribute to a reduced flux of nickel to the oceans, a consequence of cooling 
upper-mantle temperatures and decreased eruption of nickel-rich ultramafic rocks 
at the time. We measured nickel partition coefficients between simulated
Precambrian sea water and diverse iron hydroxides, and subsequently determined
that dissolved nickel concentrations may have reached approximately 400 nM
throughout much of the Archaean eon, but dropped below approximately 200 nM by
2.5 Gyr ago and to modern day values ( approximately 9 nM) by approximately 550
Myr ago. Nickel is a key metal cofactor in several enzymes of methanogens and we 
propose that its decline would have stifled their activity in the ancient oceans 
and disrupted the supply of biogenic methane. A decline in biogenic methane
production therefore could have occurred before increasing environmental
oxygenation and not necessarily be related to it. The enzymatic reliance of
methanogens on a diminishing supply of volcanic nickel links mantle evolution to 
the redox state of the atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07858 
PMID: 19360085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):746-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07877.

Low-temperature oxidation of CO catalysed by Co(3)O(4) nanorods.

Xie X(1), Li Y, Liu ZQ, Haruta M, Shen W.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Catalysis, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, China.

Low-temperature oxidation of CO, perhaps the most extensively studied reaction in
the history of heterogeneous catalysis, is becoming increasingly important in the
context of cleaning air and lowering automotive emissions. Hopcalite catalysts
(mixtures of manganese and copper oxides) were originally developed for purifying
air in submarines, but they are not especially active at ambient temperatures and
are also deactivated by the presence of moisture. Noble metal catalysts, on the
other hand, are water tolerant but usually require temperatures above 100 degrees
C for efficient operation. Gold exhibits high activity at low temperatures and
superior stability under moisture, but only when deposited in nanoparticulate
form on base transition-metal oxides. The development of active and stable
catalysts without noble metals for low-temperature CO oxidation under an ambient 
atmosphere remains a significant challenge. Here we report that tricobalt
tetraoxide nanorods not only catalyse CO oxidation at temperatures as low as -77 
degrees C but also remain stable in a moist stream of normal feed gas.
High-resolution transmission electron microscopy demonstrates that the Co(3)O(4) 
nanorods predominantly expose their {110} planes, favouring the presence of
active Co(3+) species at the surface. Kinetic analyses reveal that the turnover
frequency associated with individual Co(3+) sites on the nanorods is similar to
that of the conventional nanoparticles of this material, indicating that the
significantly higher reaction rate that we have obtained with a nanorod
morphology is probably due to the surface richness of active Co(3+) sites. These 
results show the importance of morphology control in the preparation of base
transition-metal oxides as highly efficient oxidation catalysts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07877 
PMID: 19360084 


655. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):743-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07931.

Enhancement of the Nernst effect by stripe order in a high-T(c) superconductor.

Cyr-Choinière O(1), Daou R, Laliberté F, LeBoeuf D, Doiron-Leyraud N, Chang J,
Yan JQ, Cheng JG, Zhou JS, Goodenough JB, Pyon S, Takayama T, Takagi H, Tanaka Y,
Taillefer L.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Physique and RQMP, Université de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Québec
J1K 2R1, Canada.

The Nernst effect in metals is highly sensitive to two kinds of phase transition:
superconductivity and density-wave order. The large, positive Nernst signal
observed in hole-doped high-T(c) superconductors above their transition
temperature (T(c)) has so far been attributed to fluctuating superconductivity.
Here we report that in some of these materials the large Nernst signal is in fact
the result of stripe order, a form of spin/charge modulation that causes a
reconstruction of the Fermi surface. In La(2-x)Sr(x)CuO(4) (LSCO) doped with Nd
or Eu, the onset of stripe order causes the Nernst signal to change from being
small and negative to being large and positive, as revealed either by lowering
the hole concentration across the quantum critical point in Nd-doped LSCO (refs
6-8) or by lowering the temperature across the ordering temperature in Eu-doped
LSCO (refs 9, 10). In the second case, two separate peaks are resolved,
respectively associated with the onset of stripe order at high temperature and
superconductivity near T(c).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07931 
PMID: 19360083 


656. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):740-2. doi: 10.1038/nature07874.

Interdimensional universality of dynamic interfaces.

Kim KJ(1), Lee JC, Ahn SM, Lee KS, Lee CW, Cho YJ, Seo S, Shin KH, Choe SB, Lee
HW.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Subwavelength Optics and School of Physics and Astronomy, Seoul
National University, Seoul 151-742, Korea.

Despite the complexity and diversity of nature, there exists universality in the 
form of critical scaling laws among various dissimilar systems and processes such
as stock markets, earthquakes, crackling noise, lung inflation and vortices in
superconductors. This universality is mainly independent of the microscopic
details, depending only on the symmetry and dimension of the system. Exploring
how universality is affected by the system dimensions is an important unresolved 
problem. Here we demonstrate experimentally that universality persists even at a 
dimensionality crossover in ferromagnetic nanowires. As the wire width decreases,
the magnetic domain wall dynamics changes from elastic creep in two dimensions to
a particle-like stochastic behaviour in one dimension. Applying finite-size
scaling, we find that all our experimental data in one and two dimensions
(including the crossover regime) collapse onto a single curve, signalling
universality at the criticality transition. The crossover to the one-dimensional 
regime occurs at a few hundred nanometres, corresponding to the integration scale
for modern nanodevices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07874 
PMID: 19360082 


657. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):737-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07918.

Over half of the far-infrared background light comes from galaxies at z >or= 1.2.

Devlin MJ(1), Ade PA, Aretxaga I, Bock JJ, Chapin EL, Griffin M, Gundersen JO,
Halpern M, Hargrave PC, Hughes DH, Klein J, Marsden G, Martin PG, Mauskopf P,
Moncelsi L, Netterfield CB, Ngo H, Olmi L, Pascale E, Patanchon G, Rex M, Scott
D, Semisch C, Thomas N, Truch MD, Tucker C, Tucker GS, Viero MP, Wiebe DV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, 209 South 33rd 
Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. devlin@physics.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):710-1.

Submillimetre surveys during the past decade have discovered a population of
luminous, high-redshift, dusty starburst galaxies. In the redshift range 1 <or= z
<or= 4, these massive submillimetre galaxies go through a phase characterized by 
optically obscured star formation at rates several hundred times that in the
local Universe. Half of the starlight from this highly energetic process is
absorbed and thermally re-radiated by clouds of dust at temperatures near 30 K
with spectral energy distributions peaking at 100 microm in the rest frame. At 1 
<or= z <or= 4, the peak is redshifted to wavelengths between 200 and 500 microm. 
The cumulative effect of these galaxies is to yield extragalactic optical and
far-infrared backgrounds with approximately equal energy densities. Since the
initial detection of the far-infrared background (FIRB), higher-resolution
experiments have sought to decompose this integrated radiation into the
contributions from individual galaxies. Here we report the results of an
extragalactic survey at 250, 350 and 500 microm. Combining our results at 500
microm with those at 24 microm, we determine that all of the FIRB comes from
individual galaxies, with galaxies at z >or= 1.2 accounting for 70% of it. As
expected, at the longest wavelengths the signal is dominated by ultraluminous
galaxies at z > 1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07918 
PMID: 19360081 


658. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):732-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07884.

An inhibitor of NEDD8-activating enzyme as a new approach to treat cancer.

Soucy TA(1), Smith PG, Milhollen MA, Berger AJ, Gavin JM, Adhikari S, Brownell
JE, Burke KE, Cardin DP, Critchley S, Cullis CA, Doucette A, Garnsey JJ, Gaulin
JL, Gershman RE, Lublinsky AR, McDonald A, Mizutani H, Narayanan U, Olhava EJ,
Peluso S, Rezaei M, Sintchak MD, Talreja T, Thomas MP, Traore T, Vyskocil S,
Weatherhead GS, Yu J, Zhang J, Dick LR, Claiborne CF, Rolfe M, Bolen JB, Langston
SP.

Author information: 
(1)Discovery, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 40 Landsdowne Street, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02139, USA. teresa.soucy@mpi.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):709-10.

The clinical development of an inhibitor of cellular proteasome function suggests
that compounds targeting other components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system
might prove useful for the treatment of human malignancies. NEDD8-activating
enzyme (NAE) is an essential component of the NEDD8 conjugation pathway that
controls the activity of the cullin-RING subtype of ubiquitin ligases, thereby
regulating the turnover of a subset of proteins upstream of the proteasome.
Substrates of cullin-RING ligases have important roles in cellular processes
associated with cancer cell growth and survival pathways. Here we describe
MLN4924, a potent and selective inhibitor of NAE. MLN4924 disrupts cullin-RING
ligase-mediated protein turnover leading to apoptotic death in human tumour cells
by a new mechanism of action, the deregulation of S-phase DNA synthesis. MLN4924 
suppressed the growth of human tumour xenografts in mice at compound exposures
that were well tolerated. Our data suggest that NAE inhibitors may hold promise
for the treatment of cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07884 
PMID: 19360080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):719-24. doi: 10.1038/nature07943.

The cancer genome.

Stratton MR(1), Campbell PJ, Futreal PA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge
CB10 1SA, UK. mrs@sanger.ac.uk

All cancers arise as a result of changes that have occurred in the DNA sequence
of the genomes of cancer cells. Over the past quarter of a century much has been 
learnt about these mutations and the abnormal genes that operate in human
cancers. We are now, however, moving into an era in which it will be possible to 
obtain the complete DNA sequence of large numbers of cancer genomes. These
studies will provide us with a detailed and comprehensive perspective on how
individual cancers have developed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07943 
PMCID: PMC2821689
PMID: 19360079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):725-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07782. Epub 2009 Mar 11.

Tumours with PI3K activation are resistant to dietary restriction.

Kalaany NY(1), Sabatini DM.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):713-4.

Dietary restriction delays the incidence and decreases the growth of various
types of tumours, but the mechanisms underlying the sensitivity of tumours to
food restriction remain unknown. Here we show that certain human cancer cell
lines, when grown as tumour xenografts in mice, are highly sensitive to the
anti-growth effects of dietary restriction, whereas others are resistant. Cancer 
cells that form dietary-restriction-resistant tumours carry mutations that cause 
constitutive activation of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) pathway and
in culture proliferate in the absence of insulin or insulin-like growth factor 1.
Substitution of an activated mutant allele of PI3K with wild-type PI3K in
otherwise isogenic cancer cells, or the restoration of PTEN expression in a
PTEN-null cancer cell line, is sufficient to convert a
dietary-restriction-resistant tumour into one that is
dietary-restriction-sensitive. Dietary restriction does not affect a PTEN-null
mouse model of prostate cancer, but it significantly decreases tumour burden in a
mouse model of lung cancer lacking constitutive PI3K signalling. Thus, the PI3K
pathway is an important determinant of the sensitivity of tumours to dietary
restriction, and activating mutations in the pathway may influence the response
of cancers to dietary restriction-mimetic therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07782 
PMCID: PMC2692085
PMID: 19279572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):766-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07863. Epub 2009 Mar 1.

piggyBac transposition reprograms fibroblasts to induced pluripotent stem cells.

Woltjen K(1), Michael IP, Mohseni P, Desai R, Mileikovsky M, Hämäläinen R,
Cowling R, Wang W, Liu P, Gertsenstein M, Kaji K, Sung HK, Nagy A.

Author information: 
(1)Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 1X5, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):715-6.

Transgenic expression of just four defined transcription factors (c-Myc, Klf4,
Oct4 and Sox2) is sufficient to reprogram somatic cells to a pluripotent state.
The resulting induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells resemble embryonic stem cells 
in their properties and potential to differentiate into a spectrum of adult cell 
types. Current reprogramming strategies involve retroviral, lentiviral,
adenoviral and plasmid transfection to deliver reprogramming factor transgenes.
Although the latter two methods are transient and minimize the potential for
insertion mutagenesis, they are currently limited by diminished reprogramming
efficiencies. piggyBac (PB) transposition is host-factor independent, and has
recently been demonstrated to be functional in various human and mouse cell
lines. The PB transposon/transposase system requires only the inverted terminal
repeats flanking a transgene and transient expression of the transposase enzyme
to catalyse insertion or excision events. Here we demonstrate successful and
efficient reprogramming of murine and human embryonic fibroblasts using
doxycycline-inducible transcription factors delivered by PB transposition. Stable
iPS cells thus generated express characteristic pluripotency markers and succeed 
in a series of rigorous differentiation assays. By taking advantage of the
natural propensity of the PB system for seamless excision, we show that the
individual PB insertions can be removed from established iPS cell lines,
providing an invaluable tool for discovery. In addition, we have demonstrated the
traceless removal of reprogramming factors joined with viral 2A sequences
delivered by a single transposon from murine iPS lines. We anticipate that the
unique properties of this virus-independent simplification of iPS cell production
will accelerate this field further towards full exploration of the reprogramming 
process and future cell-based therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07863 
PMCID: PMC3758996
PMID: 19252478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):771-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07864. Epub 2009 Mar 1.

Virus-free induction of pluripotency and subsequent excision of reprogramming
factors.

Kaji K(1), Norrby K, Paca A, Mileikovsky M, Mohseni P, Woltjen K.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Regenerative Medicine, Institute for Stem Cell Research,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3JQ, UK. keisuke.kaji@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):715-6.

Reprogramming of somatic cells to pluripotency, thereby creating induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, promises to transform regenerative medicine. Most
instances of direct reprogramming have been achieved by forced expression of
defined factors using multiple viral vectors. However, such iPS cells contain a
large number of viral vector integrations, any one of which could cause
unpredictable genetic dysfunction. Whereas c-Myc is dispensable for
reprogramming, complete elimination of the other exogenous factors is also
desired because ectopic expression of either Oct4 (also known as Pou5f1) or Klf4 
can induce dysplasia. Two transient transfection-reprogramming methods have been 
published to address this issue. However, the efficiency of both approaches is
extremely low, and neither has been applied successfully to human cells so far.
Here we show that non-viral transfection of a single multiprotein expression
vector, which comprises the coding sequences of c-Myc, Klf4, Oct4 and Sox2 linked
with 2A peptides, can reprogram both mouse and human fibroblasts. Moreover, the
transgene can be removed once reprogramming has been achieved. iPS cells produced
with this non-viral vector show robust expression of pluripotency markers,
indicating a reprogrammed state confirmed functionally by in vitro
differentiation assays and formation of adult chimaeric mice. When the
single-vector reprogramming system was combined with a piggyBac transposon, we
succeeded in establishing reprogrammed human cell lines from embryonic
fibroblasts with robust expression of pluripotency markers. This system minimizes
genome modification in iPS cells and enables complete elimination of exogenous
reprogramming factors, efficiently providing iPS cells that are applicable to
regenerative medicine, drug screening and the establishment of disease models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07864 
PMCID: PMC2667910
PMID: 19252477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):762-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07823. Epub 2009 Feb 15.

c-Myc suppression of miR-23a/b enhances mitochondrial glutaminase expression and 
glutamine metabolism.

Gao P(1), Tchernyshyov I, Chang TC, Lee YS, Kita K, Ochi T, Zeller KI, De Marzo
AM, Van Eyk JE, Mendell JT, Dang CV.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. pgao2@jhmi.edu

Altered glucose metabolism in cancer cells is termed the Warburg effect, which
describes the propensity of most cancer cells to take up glucose avidly and
convert it primarily to lactate, despite available oxygen. Notwithstanding the
renewed interest in the Warburg effect, cancer cells also depend on continued
mitochondrial function for metabolism, specifically glutaminolysis that
catabolizes glutamine to generate ATP and lactate. Glutamine, which is highly
transported into proliferating cells, is a major source of energy and nitrogen
for biosynthesis, and a carbon substrate for anabolic processes in cancer cells, 
but the regulation of glutamine metabolism is not well understood. Here we report
that the c-Myc (hereafter referred to as Myc) oncogenic transcription factor,
which is known to regulate microRNAs and stimulate cell proliferation,
transcriptionally represses miR-23a and miR-23b, resulting in greater expression 
of their target protein, mitochondrial glutaminase, in human P-493 B lymphoma
cells and PC3 prostate cancer cells. This leads to upregulation of glutamine
catabolism. Glutaminase converts glutamine to glutamate, which is further
catabolized through the tricarboxylic acid cycle for the production of ATP or
serves as substrate for glutathione synthesis. The unique means by which Myc
regulates glutaminase uncovers a previously unsuspected link between Myc
regulation of miRNAs, glutamine metabolism, and energy and reactive oxygen
species homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07823 
PMCID: PMC2729443
PMID: 19219026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):754-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07764. Epub 2009 Feb 15.

Phylogenetic biome conservatism on a global scale.

Crisp MD(1), Arroyo MT, Cook LG, Gandolfo MA, Jordan GJ, McGlone MS, Weston PH,
Westoby M, Wilf P, Linder HP.

Author information: 
(1)School of Botany and Zoology, The Australian National University, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia. mike.crisp@anu.edu.au

How and why organisms are distributed as they are has long intrigued evolutionary
biologists. The tendency for species to retain their ancestral ecology has been
demonstrated in distributions on local and regional scales, but the extent of
ecological conservatism over tens of millions of years and across continents has 
not been assessed. Here we show that biome stasis at speciation has outweighed
biome shifts by a ratio of more than 25:1, by inferring ancestral biomes for an
ecologically diverse sample of more than 11,000 plant species from around the
Southern Hemisphere. Stasis was also prevalent in transocean colonizations.
Availability of a suitable biome could have substantially influenced which
lineages establish on more than one landmass, in addition to the influence of the
rarity of the dispersal events themselves. Conversely, the taxonomic composition 
of biomes has probably been strongly influenced by the rarity of species'
transitions between biomes. This study has implications for the future because if
clades have inherently limited capacity to shift biomes, then their evolutionary 
potential could be strongly compromised by biome contraction as climate changes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07764 
PMID: 19219025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):780-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07733.

Association of reactive oxygen species levels and radioresistance in cancer stem 
cells.

Diehn M(1), Cho RW, Lobo NA, Kalisky T, Dorie MJ, Kulp AN, Qian D, Lam JS, Ailles
LE, Wong M, Joshua B, Kaplan MJ, Wapnir I, Dirbas FM, Somlo G, Garberoglio C, Paz
B, Shen J, Lau SK, Quake SR, Brown JM, Weissman IL, Clarke MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The metabolism of oxygen, although central to life, produces reactive oxygen
species (ROS) that have been implicated in processes as diverse as cancer,
cardiovascular disease and ageing. It has recently been shown that central
nervous system stem cells and haematopoietic stem cells and early progenitors
contain lower levels of ROS than their more mature progeny, and that these
differences are critical for maintaining stem cell function. We proposed that
epithelial tissue stem cells and their cancer stem cell (CSC) counterparts may
also share this property. Here we show that normal mammary epithelial stem cells 
contain lower concentrations of ROS than their more mature progeny cells.
Notably, subsets of CSCs in some human and murine breast tumours contain lower
ROS levels than corresponding non-tumorigenic cells (NTCs). Consistent with ROS
being critical mediators of ionizing-radiation-induced cell killing, CSCs in
these tumours develop less DNA damage and are preferentially spared after
irradiation compared to NTCs. Lower ROS levels in CSCs are associated with
increased expression of free radical scavenging systems. Pharmacological
depletion of ROS scavengers in CSCs markedly decreases their clonogenicity and
results in radiosensitization. These results indicate that, similar to normal
tissue stem cells, subsets of CSCs in some tumours contain lower ROS levels and
enhanced ROS defences compared to their non-tumorigenic progeny, which may
contribute to tumour radioresistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07733 
PMCID: PMC2778612
PMID: 19194462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):757-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07777. Epub 2009 Feb 4.

Role of Jhdm2a in regulating metabolic gene expression and obesity resistance.

Tateishi K(1), Okada Y, Kallin EM, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-7295, USA.

Recent studies indicate that the methylation state of histones can be dynamically
regulated by histone methyltransferases and demethylases. The H3K9-specific
demethylase Jhdm2a (also known as Jmjd1a and Kdm3a) has an important role in
nuclear hormone receptor-mediated gene activation and male germ cell development.
Through disruption of the Jhdm2a gene in mice, here we demonstrate that Jhdm2a is
critically important in regulating the expression of metabolic genes. The loss of
Jhdm2a function results in obesity and hyperlipidemia in mice. We provide
evidence that the loss of Jhdm2a function disrupts beta-adrenergic-stimulated
glycerol release and oxygen consumption in brown fat, and decreases fat oxidation
and glycerol release in skeletal muscles. We show that Jhdm2a expression is
induced by beta-adrenergic stimulation, and that Jhdm2a directly regulates
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (Ppara) and Ucp1 expression.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that beta-adrenergic activation-induced binding of
Jhdm2a to the PPAR responsive element (PPRE) of the Ucp1 gene not only decreases 
levels of H3K9me2 (dimethylation of lysine 9 of histone H3) at the PPRE, but also
facilitates the recruitment of Ppargamma and Rxralpha and their co-activators
Pgc1alpha (also known as Ppargc1a), CBP/p300 (Crebbp) and Src1 (Ncoa1) to the
PPRE. Our studies thus demonstrate an essential role for Jhdm2a in regulating
metabolic gene expression and normal weight control in mice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07777 
PMCID: PMC4085783
PMID: 19194461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):784-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07731. Epub 2009 Feb 4.

Structure and function of the 5'-->3' exoribonuclease Rat1 and its activating
partner Rai1.

Xiang S(1), Cooper-Morgan A, Jiao X, Kiledjian M, Manley JL, Tong L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

The 5'-->3' exoribonucleases (XRNs) comprise a large family of conserved enzymes 
in eukaryotes with crucial functions in RNA metabolism and RNA interference.
XRN2, or Rat1 in yeast, functions primarily in the nucleus and also has an
important role in transcription termination by RNA polymerase II (refs 7-14).
Rat1 exoribonuclease activity is stimulated by the protein Rai1 (refs 15, 16).
Here we report the crystal structure at 2.2 A resolution of Schizosaccharomyces
pombe Rat1 in complex with Rai1, as well as the structures of Rai1 and its murine
homologue Dom3Z alone at 2.0 A resolution. The structures reveal the molecular
mechanism for the activation of Rat1 by Rai1 and for the exclusive
exoribonuclease activity of Rat1. Biochemical studies confirm these observations,
and show that Rai1 allows Rat1 to degrade RNAs with stable secondary structure
more effectively. There are large differences in the active site landscape of
Rat1 compared to related and PIN (PilT N terminus) domain-containing nucleases.
Unexpectedly, we identified a large pocket in Rai1 and Dom3Z that contains highly
conserved residues, including three acidic side chains that coordinate a divalent
cation. Mutagenesis and biochemical studies demonstrate that Rai1 possesses
pyrophosphohydrolase activity towards 5' triphosphorylated RNA. Such an activity 
is important for messenger RNA degradation in bacteria, but this is, to our
knowledge, the first demonstration of this activity in eukaryotes and suggests
that Rai1/Dom3Z may have additional important functions in RNA metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07731 
PMCID: PMC2739979
PMID: 19194460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2009 Apr 9;458(7239):776-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07737.

Hedgehog signalling is essential for maintenance of cancer stem cells in myeloid 
leukaemia.

Zhao C(1), Chen A, Jamieson CH, Fereshteh M, Abrahamsson A, Blum J, Kwon HY, Kim 
J, Chute JP, Rizzieri D, Munchhof M, VanArsdale T, Beachy PA, Reya T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 30;460(7255):652.

Although the role of Hedgehog (Hh) signalling in embryonic pattern formation is
well established, its functions in adult tissue renewal and maintenance remain
unclear, and the relationship of these functions to cancer development has not
been determined. Here we show that the loss of Smoothened (Smo), an essential
component of the Hh pathway, impairs haematopoietic stem cell renewal and
decreases induction of chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) by the BCR-ABL1
oncoprotein. Loss of Smo causes depletion of CML stem cells--the cells that
propagate the leukaemia--whereas constitutively active Smo augments CML stem cell
number and accelerates disease. As a possible mechanism for Smo action, we show
that the cell fate determinant Numb, which depletes CML stem cells, is increased 
in the absence of Smo activity. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of Hh
signalling impairs not only the propagation of CML driven by wild-type BCR-ABL1, 
but also the growth of imatinib-resistant mouse and human CML. These data
indicate that Hh pathway activity is required for maintenance of normal and
neoplastic stem cells of the haematopoietic system and raise the possibility that
the drug resistance and disease recurrence associated with imatinib treatment of 
CML might be avoided by targeting this essential stem cell maintenance pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07737 
PMCID: PMC2946231
PMID: 19169242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):655-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07763.

Clustering of InsP3 receptors by InsP3 retunes their regulation by InsP3 and
Ca2+.

Taufiq-Ur-Rahman(1), Skupin A, Falcke M, Taylor CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1PD, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):E1-2; discussion E2-3.

The versatility of Ca2+ signals derives from their spatio-temporal organization. 
For Ca2+ signals initiated by inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3), this requires
local interactions between InsP3 receptors (InsP3Rs) mediated by their rapid
stimulation and slower inhibition\ by cytosolic Ca2+. This allows hierarchical
recruitment of Ca2+ release events as the InsP3 concentration increases. Single
InsP3Rs respond first, then clustered InsP3Rs open together giving a local 'Ca2+ 
puff', and as puffs become more frequent they ignite regenerative Ca2+ waves.
Using nuclear patch-clamp recording, here we demonstrate that InsP3Rs are
initially randomly distributed with an estimated separation of 1 m. Low
concentrations of InsP3 cause InsP3Rs to aggregate rapidly and reversibly into
small clusters of about four closely associated InsP3Rs. At resting cytosolic
[Ca2+], clustered InsP3Rs open independently, but with lower open probability,
shorter open time, and less InsP3 sensitivity than lone InsP3Rs. Increasing
cytosolic [Ca2+] reverses the inhibition caused by clustering, InsP3R gating
becomes coupled, and the duration of multiple openings is prolonged. Clustering
both exposes InsP3Rs to local Ca2+ rises and increases the effects of Ca2+.
Dynamic regulation of clustering by InsP3 retunes InsP3R sensitivity to InsP3 and
Ca2+, facilitating hierarchical recruitment of the elementary events that
underlie all InsP3-evoked Ca2+ signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07763 
PMCID: PMC2702691
PMID: 19348050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):619-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07857.

Petrological evidence for secular cooling in mantle plumes.

Herzberg C(1), Gazel E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Rutgers University, 610 Taylor
Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-8066, USA. herzberg@rci.rutgers.edu

Geological mapping and geochronological studies have shown much lower eruption
rates for ocean island basalts (OIBs) in comparison with those of lavas from
large igneous provinces (LIPs) such as oceanic plateaux and continental flood
provinces. However, a quantitative petrological comparison has never been made
between mantle source temperature and the extent of melting for OIB and LIP
sources. Here we show that the MgO and FeO contents of Galapagos-related lavas
and their primary magmas have decreased since the Cretaceous period. From
petrological modelling, we infer that these changes reflect a cooling of the
Galapagos mantle plume from a potential temperature of 1,560-1,620 degrees C in
the Cretaceous to 1,500 degrees C at present. Iceland also exhibits secular
cooling, in agreement with previous studies. Our work provides quantitative
petrological evidence that, in general, mantle plumes for LIPs with
Palaeocene-Permian ages were hotter and melted more extensively than plumes of
more modern ocean islands. We interpret this to reflect episodic flow from
lower-mantle domains that are lithologically and geochemically heterogeneous.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07857 
PMID: 19340079 


671. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):614-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07852.

Solubility trapping in formation water as dominant CO(2) sink in natural gas
fields.

Gilfillan SM(1), Lollar BS, Holland G, Blagburn D, Stevens S, Schoell M, Cassidy 
M, Ding Z, Zhou Z, Lacrampe-Couloume G, Ballentine CJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth, Atmospheric and Environmental Sciences, The University of
Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PL, UK. stuart.gilfillan@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):583-4.

Injecting CO(2) into deep geological strata is proposed as a safe and
economically favourable means of storing CO(2) captured from industrial point
sources. It is difficult, however, to assess the long-term consequences of CO(2) 
flooding in the subsurface from decadal observations of existing disposal sites. 
Both the site design and long-term safety modelling critically depend on how and 
where CO(2) will be stored in the site over its lifetime. Within a geological
storage site, the injected CO(2) can dissolve in solution or precipitate as
carbonate minerals. Here we identify and quantify the principal mechanism of
CO(2) fluid phase removal in nine natural gas fields in North America, China and 
Europe, using noble gas and carbon isotope tracers. The natural gas fields
investigated in our study are dominated by a CO(2) phase and provide a natural
analogue for assessing the geological storage of anthropogenic CO(2) over
millennial timescales. We find that in seven gas fields with siliciclastic or
carbonate-dominated reservoir lithologies, dissolution in formation water at a pH
of 5-5.8 is the sole major sink for CO(2). In two fields with siliciclastic
reservoir lithologies, some CO(2) loss through precipitation as carbonate
minerals cannot be ruled out, but can account for a maximum of 18 per cent of the
loss of emplaced CO(2). In view of our findings that geological mineral fixation 
is a minor CO(2) trapping mechanism in natural gas fields, we suggest that
long-term anthropogenic CO(2) storage models in similar geological systems should
focus on the potential mobility of CO(2) dissolved in water.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07852 
PMID: 19340078 


672. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):610-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07871.

Emergence of the persistent spin helix in semiconductor quantum wells.

Koralek JD(1), Weber CP, Orenstein J, Bernevig BA, Zhang SC, Mack S, Awschalom
DD.

Author information: 
(1)Materials Science Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. jdkoralek@lbl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):580-1.

According to Noether's theorem, for every symmetry in nature there is a
corresponding conservation law. For example, invariance with respect to spatial
translation corresponds to conservation of momentum. In another well-known
example, invariance with respect to rotation of the electron's spin, or SU(2)
symmetry, leads to conservation of spin polarization. For electrons in a solid,
this symmetry is ordinarily broken by spin-orbit coupling, allowing spin angular 
momentum to flow to orbital angular momentum. However, it has recently been
predicted that SU(2) can be achieved in a two-dimensional electron gas, despite
the presence of spin-orbit coupling. The corresponding conserved quantities
include the amplitude and phase of a helical spin density wave termed the
'persistent spin helix'. SU(2) is realized, in principle, when the strengths of
two dominant spin-orbit interactions, the Rashba (strength parameterized by
alpha) and linear Dresselhaus (beta(1)) interactions, are equal. This symmetry is
predicted to be robust against all forms of spin-independent scattering,
including electron-electron interactions, but is broken by the cubic Dresselhaus 
term (beta(3)) and spin-dependent scattering. When these terms are negligible,
the distance over which spin information can propagate is predicted to diverge as
alpha approaches beta(1). Here we report experimental observation of the
emergence of the persistent spin helix in GaAs quantum wells by independently
tuning alpha and beta(1). Using transient spin-grating spectroscopy, we find a
spin-lifetime enhancement of two orders of magnitude near the symmetry point.
Excellent quantitative agreement with theory across a wide range of sample
parameters allows us to obtain an absolute measure of all relevant spin-orbit
terms, identifying beta(3) as the main SU(2)-violating term in our samples. The
tunable suppression of spin relaxation demonstrated in this work is well suited
for application to spintronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07871 
PMID: 19340077 


673. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):607-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07942.

An anomalous positron abundance in cosmic rays with energies 1.5-100 GeV.

Adriani O(1), Barbarino GC, Bazilevskaya GA, Bellotti R, Boezio M, Bogomolov EA, 
Bonechi L, Bongi M, Bonvicini V, Bottai S, Bruno A, Cafagna F, Campana D, Carlson
P, Casolino M, Castellini G, De Pascale MP, De Rosa G, De Simone N, Di Felice V, 
Galper AM, Grishantseva L, Hofverberg P, Koldashov SV, Krutkov SY, Kvashnin AN,
Leonov A, Malvezzi V, Marcelli L, Menn W, Mikhailov VV, Mocchiutti E, Orsi S,
Osteria G, Papini P, Pearce M, Picozza P, Ricci M, Ricciarini SB, Simon M,
Sparvoli R, Spillantini P, Stozhkov YI, Vacchi A, Vannuccini E, Vasilyev G,
Voronov SA, Yurkin YT, Zampa G, Zampa N, Zverev VG.

Author information: 
(1)University of Florence, Department of Physics, Via Sansone 1, I-50019 Sesto
Fiorentino, Florence, Italy.

Antiparticles account for a small fraction of cosmic rays and are known to be
produced in interactions between cosmic-ray nuclei and atoms in the interstellar 
medium, which is referred to as a 'secondary source'. Positrons might also
originate in objects such as pulsars and microquasars or through dark matter
annihilation, which would be 'primary sources'. Previous statistically limited
measurements of the ratio of positron and electron fluxes have been interpreted
as evidence for a primary source for the positrons, as has an increase in the
total electron+positron flux at energies between 300 and 600 GeV (ref. 8). Here
we report a measurement of the positron fraction in the energy range 1.5-100 GeV.
We find that the positron fraction increases sharply over much of that range, in 
a way that appears to be completely inconsistent with secondary sources. We
therefore conclude that a primary source, be it an astrophysical object or dark
matter annihilation, is necessary.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07942 
PMID: 19340076 


674. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):603-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07865.

Early assembly of the most massive galaxies.

Collins CA(1), Stott JP, Hilton M, Kay ST, Stanford SA, Davidson M, Hosmer M,
Hoyle B, Liddle A, Lloyd-Davies E, Mann RG, Mehrtens N, Miller CJ, Nichol RC,
Romer AK, Sahlén M, Viana PT, West MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysics Research Institute, Liverpool John Moores University, Twelve
Quays House, Egerton Wharf, Birkenhead, CH41 1LD, UK. cac@astro.livjm.ac.uk

The current consensus is that galaxies begin as small density fluctuations in the
early Universe and grow by in situ star formation and hierarchical merging. Stars
begin to form relatively quickly in sub-galactic-sized building blocks called
haloes which are subsequently assembled into galaxies. However, exactly when this
assembly takes place is a matter of some debate. Here we report that the stellar 
masses of brightest cluster galaxies, which are the most luminous objects
emitting stellar light, some 9 billion years ago are not significantly different 
from their stellar masses today. Brightest cluster galaxies are almost fully
assembled 4-5 billion years after the Big Bang, having grown to more than 90 per 
cent of their final stellar mass by this time. Our data conflict with the most
recent galaxy formation models based on the largest simulations of dark-matter
halo development. These models predict protracted formation of brightest cluster 
galaxies over a Hubble time, with only 22 per cent of the stellar mass assembled 
at the epoch probed by our sample. Our findings suggest a new picture in which
brightest cluster galaxies experience an early period of rapid growth rather than
prolonged hierarchical assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07865 
PMID: 19340075 


675. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):597-602. doi: 10.1038/nature07869.

Structure of the connexin 26 gap junction channel at 3.5 A resolution.

Maeda S(1), Nakagawa S, Suga M, Yamashita E, Oshima A, Fujiyoshi Y, Tsukihara T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University, OLABB, 6-2-3, Furuedai,
Suita, Osaka 565-0874, Japan.

Gap junctions consist of arrays of intercellular channels between adjacent cells 
that permit the exchange of ions and small molecules. Here we report the crystal 
structure of the gap junction channel formed by human connexin 26 (Cx26, also
known as GJB2) at 3.5 A resolution, and discuss structural determinants of solute
transport through the channel. The density map showed the two membrane-spanning
hemichannels and the arrangement of the four transmembrane helices of the six
protomers forming each hemichannel. The hemichannels feature a positively charged
cytoplasmic entrance, a funnel, a negatively charged transmembrane pathway, and
an extracellular cavity. The pore is narrowed at the funnel, which is formed by
the six amino-terminal helices lining the wall of the channel, which thus
determines the molecular size restriction at the channel entrance. The structure 
of the Cx26 gap junction channel also has implications for the gating of the
channel by the transjunctional voltage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07869 
PMID: 19340074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):E6; discussion E7. doi: 10.1038/nature07927.

Is there an association between NPY and neuroticism?

Cotton CH(1), Flint J, Campbell TG.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt
Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 Apr 24;452(7190):997-1001.

Psychiatric genetics has been hampered by the fact that initially exciting
findings from underpowered studies are so often not replicated in larger, more
powerful, data sets. Here we show that the claims of Zhou et al. that
neuropeptide Y (NPY) diplotype-predicted expression is correlated with trait
anxiety (neuroticism) is not replicated in a data set consisting of
phenotypically extreme individuals drawn from a large (n = 88,142) non-clinical
population. We found no association between NPY diplotype or diplotype-predicted 
expression and neuroticism. Our reply to Zhou and colleagues forms part of a
larger debate (see, for example,
http://www.nature.com/news/2008/080709/full/454154a.html) about the efficacy and 
replicability of candidate driven versus genome wide approaches to psychiatric
genetics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07927 
PMID: 19340021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):636-40. doi: 10.1038/nature07930. Epub 2009 Mar 15.

Broad diversity of neutralizing antibodies isolated from memory B cells in
HIV-infected individuals.

Scheid JF(1), Mouquet H, Feldhahn N, Seaman MS, Velinzon K, Pietzsch J, Ott RG,
Anthony RM, Zebroski H, Hurley A, Phogat A, Chakrabarti B, Li Y, Connors M,
Pereyra F, Walker BD, Wardemann H, Ho D, Wyatt RT, Mascola JR, Ravetch JV,
Nussenzweig MC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New 
York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):584-5.

Antibodies to conserved epitopes on the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
surface protein gp140 can protect against infection in non-human primates, and
some infected individuals show high titres of broadly neutralizing immunoglobulin
(Ig)G antibodies in their serum. However, little is known about the specificity
and activity of these antibodies. To characterize the memory antibody responses
to HIV, we cloned 502 antibodies from HIV envelope-binding memory B cells from
six HIV-infected patients with broadly neutralizing antibodies and low to
intermediate viral loads. We show that in these patients, the B-cell memory
response to gp140 is composed of up to 50 independent clones expressing high
affinity neutralizing antibodies to the gp120 variable loops, the CD4-binding
site, the co-receptor-binding site, and to a new neutralizing epitope that is in 
the same region of gp120 as the CD4-binding site. Thus, the IgG memory B-cell
compartment in the selected group of patients with broad serum neutralizing
activity to HIV is comprised of multiple clonal responses with neutralizing
activity directed against several epitopes on gp120.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07930 
PMID: 19287373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):623-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07840. Epub 2009 Mar 8.

Initial community evenness favours functionality under selective stress.

Wittebolle L(1), Marzorati M, Clement L, Balloi A, Daffonchio D, Heylen K, De Vos
P, Verstraete W, Boon N.

Author information: 
(1)LabMET, Laboratory of Microbial Ecology & Technology, Ghent University, B-9000
Ghent, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):579-80.

Owing to the present global biodiversity crisis, the biodiversity-stability
relationship and the effect of biodiversity on ecosystem functioning have become 
major topics in ecology. Biodiversity is a complex term that includes taxonomic, 
functional, spatial and temporal aspects of organismic diversity, with species
richness (the number of species) and evenness (the relative abundance of species)
considered among the most important measures. With few exceptions (see, for
example, ref. 6), the majority of studies of biodiversity-functioning and
biodiversity-stability theory have predominantly examined richness. Here we show,
using microbial microcosms, that initial community evenness is a key factor in
preserving the functional stability of an ecosystem. Using experimental
manipulations of both richness and initial evenness in microcosms with
denitrifying bacterial communities, we found that the stability of the net
ecosystem denitrification in the face of salinity stress was strongly influenced 
by the initial evenness of the community. Therefore, when communities are highly 
uneven, or there is extreme dominance by one or a few species, their functioning 
is less resistant to environmental stress. Further unravelling how evenness
influences ecosystem processes in natural and humanized environments constitutes 
a major future conceptual challenge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07840 
PMID: 19270679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):651-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07753. Epub 2009 Feb 25.

FGF signalling during embryo development regulates cilia length in diverse
epithelia.

Neugebauer JM(1), Amack JD, Peterson AG, Bisgrove BW, Yost HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Utah School of Medicine,
Eccles Institute of Human Genetics, Building 533, Room 3160, 15 North 2030 East, 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84112-5330, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):384.

Cilia are cell surface organelles found on most epithelia in vertebrates.
Specialized groups of cilia have critical roles in embryonic development,
including left-right axis formation. Recently, cilia have been implicated as
recipients of cell-cell signalling. However, little is known about cell-cell
signalling pathways that control the length of cilia. Here we provide several
lines of evidence showing that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling
regulates cilia length and function in diverse epithelia during zebrafish and
Xenopus development. Morpholino knockdown of FGF receptor 1 (Fgfr1) in zebrafish 
cell-autonomously reduces cilia length in Kupffer's vesicle and perturbs
directional fluid flow required for left-right patterning of the embryo.
Expression of a dominant-negative FGF receptor (DN-Fgfr1), treatment with SU5402 
(a pharmacological inhibitor of FGF signalling) or genetic and morpholino
reduction of redundant FGF ligands Fgf8 and Fgf24 reproduces this cilia length
phenotype. Knockdown of Fgfr1 also results in shorter tethering cilia in the otic
vesicle and shorter motile cilia in the pronephric ducts. In Xenopus, expression 
of a dn-fgfr1 results in shorter monocilia in the gastrocoel roof plate that
control left-right patterning and in shorter multicilia in external mucociliary
epithelium. Together, these results indicate a fundamental and highly conserved
role for FGF signalling in the regulation of cilia length in multiple tissues.
Abrogation of Fgfr1 signalling downregulates expression of two ciliogenic
transcription factors, foxj1 and rfx2, and of the intraflagellar transport gene
ift88 (also known as polaris), indicating that FGF signalling mediates cilia
length through an Fgf8/Fgf24-Fgfr1-intraflagellar transport pathway. We propose
that a subset of developmental defects and diseases ascribed to FGF signalling
are due in part to loss of cilia function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07753 
PMCID: PMC2688717
PMID: 19242413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):641-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07746. Epub 2009 Feb 25.

Adaptation of HIV-1 to human leukocyte antigen class I.

Kawashima Y(1), Pfafferott K, Frater J, Matthews P, Payne R, Addo M, Gatanaga H, 
Fujiwara M, Hachiya A, Koizumi H, Kuse N, Oka S, Duda A, Prendergast A, Crawford 
H, Leslie A, Brumme Z, Brumme C, Allen T, Brander C, Kaslow R, Tang J, Hunter E, 
Allen S, Mulenga J, Branch S, Roach T, John M, Mallal S, Ogwu A, Shapiro R, Prado
JG, Fidler S, Weber J, Pybus OG, Klenerman P, Ndung'u T, Phillips R, Heckerman D,
Harrigan PR, Walker BD, Takiguchi M, Goulder P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Viral Immunology, Center for AIDS Research, Kumamoto University,
2-2-1 Honjo, Kumamoto 860-0811, Japan.

The rapid and extensive spread of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic
provides a rare opportunity to witness host-pathogen co-evolution involving
humans. A focal point is the interaction between genes encoding human leukocyte
antigen (HLA) and those encoding HIV proteins. HLA molecules present fragments
(epitopes) of HIV proteins on the surface of infected cells to enable immune
recognition and killing by CD8(+) T cells; particular HLA molecules, such as
HLA-B*57, HLA-B*27 and HLA-B*51, are more likely to mediate successful control of
HIV infection. Mutation within these epitopes can allow viral escape from CD8(+) 
T-cell recognition. Here we analysed viral sequences and HLA alleles from >2,800 
subjects, drawn from 9 distinct study cohorts spanning 5 continents. Initial
analysis of the HLA-B*51-restricted epitope, TAFTIPSI (reverse transcriptase
residues 128-135), showed a strong correlation between the frequency of the
escape mutation I135X and HLA-B*51 prevalence in the 9 study cohorts (P =
0.0001). Extending these analyses to incorporate other well-defined CD8(+) T-cell
epitopes, including those restricted by HLA-B*57 and HLA-B*27, showed that the
frequency of these epitope variants (n = 14) was consistently correlated with the
prevalence of the restricting HLA allele in the different cohorts (together, P < 
0.0001), demonstrating strong evidence of HIV adaptation to HLA at a population
level. This process of viral adaptation may dismantle the well-established HLA
associations with control of HIV infection that are linked to the availability of
key epitopes, and highlights the challenge for a vaccine to keep pace with the
changing immunological landscape presented by HIV.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07746 
PMCID: PMC3148020
PMID: 19242411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):591-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07849. Epub 2009 Feb 22.

Tyrosine dephosphorylation of H2AX modulates apoptosis and survival decisions.

Cook PJ(1), Ju BG, Telese F, Wang X, Glass CK, Rosenfeld MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute School of Medicine, University of California, 
San Diego, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):581-3.

Life and death fate decisions allow cells to avoid massive apoptotic death in
response to genotoxic stress. Although the regulatory mechanisms and signalling
pathways controlling DNA repair and apoptosis are well characterized, the precise
molecular strategies that determine the ultimate choice of DNA repair and
survival or apoptotic cell death remain incompletely understood. Here we report
that a protein tyrosine phosphatase, EYA, is involved in promoting efficient DNA 
repair rather than apoptosis in response to genotoxic stress in mammalian
embryonic kidney cells by executing a damage-signal-dependent dephosphorylation
of an H2AX carboxy-terminal tyrosine phosphate (Y142). This post-translational
modification determines the relative recruitment of either DNA repair or
pro-apoptotic factors to the tail of serine phosphorylated histone H2AX
(gamma-H2AX) and allows it to function as an active determinant of
repair/survival versus apoptotic responses to DNA damage, revealing an additional
phosphorylation-dependent mechanism that modulates survival/apoptotic decisions
during mammalian organogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07849 
PMCID: PMC2692521
PMID: 19234442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):632-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07832. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

Decoding reveals the contents of visual working memory in early visual areas.

Harrison SA(1), Tong F.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department and Vanderbilt Vision Research Center, Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240, USA.

Visual working memory provides an essential link between perception and higher
cognitive functions, allowing for the active maintenance of information about
stimuli no longer in view. Research suggests that sustained activity in
higher-order prefrontal, parietal, inferotemporal and lateral occipital areas
supports visual maintenance, and may account for the limited capacity of working 
memory to hold up to 3-4 items. Because higher-order areas lack the visual
selectivity of early sensory areas, it has remained unclear how observers can
remember specific visual features, such as the precise orientation of a grating, 
with minimal decay in performance over delays of many seconds. One proposal is
that sensory areas serve to maintain fine-tuned feature information, but early
visual areas show little to no sustained activity over prolonged delays. Here we 
show that orientations held in working memory can be decoded from activity
patterns in the human visual cortex, even when overall levels of activity are
low. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and pattern classification
methods, we found that activity patterns in visual areas V1-V4 could predict
which of two oriented gratings was held in memory with mean accuracy levels
upwards of 80%, even in participants whose activity fell to baseline levels after
a prolonged delay. These orientation-selective activity patterns were sustained
throughout the delay period, evident in individual visual areas, and similar to
the responses evoked by unattended, task-irrelevant gratings. Our results
demonstrate that early visual areas can retain specific information about visual 
features held in working memory, over periods of many seconds when no physical
stimulus is present.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07832 
PMCID: PMC2709809
PMID: 19225460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):646-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07686. Epub 2009 Feb 8.

An unexpected twist in viral capsid maturation.

Gertsman I(1), Gan L, Guttman M, Lee K, Speir JA, Duda RL, Hendrix RW, Komives
EA, Johnson JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Lambda-like double-stranded (ds) DNA bacteriophage undergo massive conformational
changes in their capsid shell during the packaging of their viral genomes. Capsid
shells are complex organizations of hundreds of protein subunits that assemble
into intricate quaternary complexes that ultimately are able to withstand over 50
atm of pressure during genome packaging. The extensive integration between
subunits in capsids requires the formation of an intermediate complex, termed a
procapsid, from which individual subunits can undergo the necessary refolding and
structural rearrangements needed to transition to the more stable capsid.
Although various mature capsids have been characterized at atomic resolution, no 
such procapsid structure is available for a dsDNA virus or bacteriophage. Here we
present a procapsid X-ray structure at 3.65 A resolution, termed prohead II, of
the lambda-like bacteriophage HK97, the mature capsid structure of which was
previously solved to 3.44 A (ref. 2). A comparison of the two largely different
capsid forms has unveiled an unprecedented expansion mechanism that describes the
transition. Crystallographic and hydrogen/deuterium exchange data presented here 
demonstrate that the subunit tertiary structures are significantly different
between the two states, with twisting and bending motions occurring in both
helical and beta-sheet regions. We also identified subunit interactions at each
three-fold axis of the capsid that are maintained throughout maturation. The
interactions sustain capsid integrity during subunit refolding and provide a
fixed hinge from which subunits undergo rotational and translational motions
during maturation. Previously published calorimetric data of a closely related
bacteriophage, P22, showed that capsid maturation was an exothermic process that 
resulted in a release of 90 kJ mol(-1) of energy. We propose that the major
tertiary changes presented in this study reveal a structural basis for an
exothermic maturation process probably present in many dsDNA bacteriophage and
possibly viruses such as herpesvirus, which share the HK97 subunit fold.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07686 
PMCID: PMC2765791
PMID: 19204733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 2009 Apr 2;458(7238):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07721. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

A micro-architecture for binocular disparity and ocular dominance in visual
cortex.

Kara P(1), Boyd JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston,
South Carolina 29425, USA. kara@musc.edu

In invertebrate predators such as the praying mantis and vertebrate predators
such as wild cats the ability to detect small differences in inter-ocular retinal
disparities is a critical means for accurately determining the depth of moving
objects such as prey. In mammals, the first neurons along the visual pathway that
encode binocular disparities are found in the visual cortex. However, a precise
functional architecture for binocular disparity has never been demonstrated in
any species, and coarse maps for disparity have been found in only one primate
species. Moreover, the dominant approach for assaying the developmental
plasticity of binocular cortical neurons used monocular tests of ocular dominance
to infer binocular function. The few studies that examined the relationship
between ocular dominance and binocular disparity of individual cells used
single-unit recordings and have provided conflicting results regarding whether
ocular dominance can predict the selectivity or sensitivity to binocular
disparity. We used two-photon calcium imaging to sample the response to monocular
and binocular visual stimuli from nearly every adjacent neuron in a small region 
of the cat visual cortex, area 18. Here we show that local circuits for ocular
dominance always have smooth and graded transitions from one apparently monocular
functional domain to an adjacent binocular region. Most unexpectedly, we
discovered a new map in the cat visual cortex that had a precise functional
micro-architecture for binocular disparity selectivity. At the level of single
cells, ocular dominance was unrelated to binocular disparity selectivity or
sensitivity. When the local maps for ocular dominance and binocular disparity
both had measurable gradients at a given cortical site, the two gradient
directions were orthogonal to each other. Together, these results indicate that, 
from the perspective of the spiking activity of individual neurons, ocular
dominance cannot predict binocular disparity tuning. However, the precise local
arrangement of ocular dominance and binocular disparity maps provide new clues
regarding how monocular and binocular depth cues may be combined and decoded.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07721 
PMCID: PMC2700034
PMID: 19158677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):497-500. doi: 10.1038/nature07866.

Volcanic mesocyclones.

Chakraborty P(1), Gioia G, Kieffer SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
chakrabo@illinois.edu

A strong volcanic plume consists of a vertical column of hot gases and dust
topped with a horizontal 'umbrella'. The column rises, buoyed by entrained and
heated ambient air, reaches the neutral-buoyancy level, then spreads radially to 
form the umbrella. In classical models of strong volcanic plumes, the plume is
assumed to remain always axisymmetric and non-rotating. Here we show that the
updraught of the rising column induces a hydrodynamic effect not addressed to
date-a 'volcanic mesocyclone'. This volcanic mesocyclone sets the entire plume
rotating about its axis, as confirmed by an unprecedented analysis of satellite
images from the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo. Destabilized by the rotation,
the umbrella loses axial symmetry and becomes lobate in plan view, in accord with
satellite records of recent eruptions on Mounts Pinatubo, Manam, Reventador,
Okmok, Chaiten and Ruang. The volcanic mesocyclone spawns waterspouts or dust
devils, as seen in numerous eruptions, and groups the electric charges about the 
plume to form the 'lightning sheath' that was so prominent in the recent eruption
of Mount Chaiten. The concept of a volcanic mesocyclone provides a unified
explanation for a disparate set of poorly understood phenomena in strong volcanic
plumes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07866 
PMID: 19325632 


686. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):493-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07828.

Variable Quaternary chemical weathering fluxes and imbalances in marine
geochemical budgets.

Vance D(1), Teagle DA, Foster GL.

Author information: 
(1)Bristol Isotope Group, Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol,
Wills Memorial Building, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK. d.vance@bristol.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):417-8.

Rivers are the dominant source of many elements and isotopes to the ocean. But
this input from the continents is not balanced by the loss of the elements and
isotopes through hydrothermal and sedimentary exchange with the oceanic crust, or
by temporal changes in the marine inventory for elements that are demonstrably
not in steady state. To resolve the problem of the observed imbalance in marine
geochemical budgets, attention has been focused on uncertainties in the
hydrothermal and sedimentary fluxes. In recent Earth history, temporally dynamic 
chemical weathering fluxes from the continents are an inevitable consequence of
periodic glaciations. Chemical weathering rates on modern Earth are likely to
remain far from equilibrium owing to the physical production of finely ground
material at glacial terminations that acts as a fertile substrate for chemical
weathering. Here we explore the implications of temporal changes in the riverine 
chemical weathering flux for oceanic geochemical budgets. We contend that the
riverine flux obtained from observations of modern rivers is broadly accurate,
but not representative of timescales appropriate for elements with oceanic
residence longer than Quaternary glacial-interglacial cycles. We suggest that the
pulse of rapid chemical weathering initiated at the last deglaciation has not yet
decayed away and that weathering rates remain about two to three times the
average for an entire late Quaternary glacial cycle. Taking into account the
effect of the suggested non-steady-state process on the silicate weathering flux 
helps to reconcile the modelled marine strontium isotope budget with available
data. Overall, we conclude that consideration of the temporal variability in
riverine fluxes largely ameliorates long-standing problems with chemical and
isotopic mass balances in the ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07828 
PMID: 19325631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):485-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07920.

The impact and recovery of asteroid 2008 TC(3).

Jenniskens P(1), Shaddad MH, Numan D, Elsir S, Kudoda AM, Zolensky ME, Le L,
Robinson GA, Friedrich JM, Rumble D, Steele A, Chesley SR, Fitzsimmons A, Duddy
S, Hsieh HH, Ramsay G, Brown PG, Edwards WN, Tagliaferri E, Boslough MB, Spalding
RE, Dantowitz R, Kozubal M, Pravec P, Borovicka J, Charvat Z, Vaubaillon J,
Kuiper J, Albers J, Bishop JL, Mancinelli RL, Sandford SA, Milam SN, Nuevo M,
Worden SP.

Author information: 
(1)SETI Institute, Carl Sagan Center, 515 North Whisman Road, Mountain View,
California 94043, USA. Petrus.M.Jenniskens@nasa.gov

In the absence of a firm link between individual meteorites and their asteroidal 
parent bodies, asteroids are typically characterized only by their light
reflection properties, and grouped accordingly into classes. On 6 October 2008, a
small asteroid was discovered with a flat reflectance spectrum in the 554-995 nm 
wavelength range, and designated 2008 TC(3) (refs 4-6). It subsequently hit the
Earth. Because it exploded at 37 km altitude, no macroscopic fragments were
expected to survive. Here we report that a dedicated search along the approach
trajectory recovered 47 meteorites, fragments of a single body named Almahata
Sitta, with a total mass of 3.95 kg. Analysis of one of these meteorites shows it
to be an achondrite, a polymict ureilite, anomalous in its class:
ultra-fine-grained and porous, with large carbonaceous grains. The combined
asteroid and meteorite reflectance spectra identify the asteroid as F class, now 
firmly linked to dark carbon-rich anomalous ureilites, a material so fragile it
was not previously represented in meteorite collections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07920 
PMID: 19325630 


688. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):481-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07680.

Accretion disk winds as the jet suppression mechanism in the microquasar GRS
1915+105.

Neilsen J(1), Lee JC.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University Department of Astronomy, 60 Garden Street, MS-10,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. jneilsen@cfa.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):414-5.

Stellar-mass black holes with relativistic jets, also known as microquasars,
mimic the behaviour of quasars and active galactic nuclei. Because timescales
around stellar-mass black holes are orders of magnitude smaller than those around
more distant supermassive black holes, microquasars are ideal nearby
'laboratories' for studying the evolution of accretion disks and jet formation in
black-hole systems. Whereas studies of black holes have revealed a complex array 
of accretion activity, the mechanisms that trigger and suppress jet formation
remain a mystery. Here we report the presence of a broad emission line in the
faint, hard states and narrow absorption lines in the bright, soft states of the 
microquasar GRS 1915+105. ('Hard' and 'soft' denote the character of the emitted 
X-rays.) Because the hard states exhibit prominent radio jets, we argue that the 
broad emission line arises when the jet illuminates the inner accretion disk. The
jet is weak or absent during the soft states, and we show that the absorption
lines originate when the powerful radiation field around the black hole drives a 
hot wind off the accretion disk. Our analysis shows that this wind carries enough
mass away from the disk to halt the flow of matter into the radio jet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07680 
PMID: 19325629 


689. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):475-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07851.

Crystal structure of human spliceosomal U1 snRNP at 5.5 A resolution.

Pomeranz Krummel DA(1), Oubridge C, Leung AK, Li J, Nagai K.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):418-9.

Human spliceosomal U1 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles (snRNPs), which
consist of U1 small nuclear RNA and ten proteins, recognize the 5' splice site
within precursor messenger RNAs and initiate the assembly of the spliceosome for 
intron excision. An electron density map of the functional core of U1 snRNP at
5.5 A resolution has enabled us to build the RNA and, in conjunction with
site-specific labelling of individual proteins, to place the seven Sm proteins,
U1-C and U1-70K into the map. Here we present the detailed structure of a
spliceosomal snRNP, revealing a hierarchical network of intricate interactions
between subunits. A striking feature is the amino (N)-terminal polypeptide of
U1-70K, which extends over a distance of 180 A from its RNA binding domain, wraps
around the core domain consisting of the seven Sm proteins and finally contacts
U1-C, which is crucial for 5'-splice-site recognition. The structure of U1 snRNP 
provides insights into U1 snRNP assembly and suggests a possible mechanism of
5'-splice-site recognition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07851 
PMCID: PMC2673513
PMID: 19325628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):469-74. doi: 10.1038/nature07855.

The oldest articulated osteichthyan reveals mosaic gnathostome characters.

Zhu M(1), Zhao W, Jia L, Lu J, Qiao T, Qu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of
Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology (IVPP), Chinese Academy of
Sciences, PO Box 643, Beijing 100044, China. zhumin@ivpp.ac.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):413-4.

The evolutionary history of osteichthyans (bony fishes plus tetrapods) extends
back to the Ludlow epoch of the Silurian period. However, these Silurian forms
have been documented exclusively by fragmentary fossils. Here we report the
discovery of an exceptionally preserved primitive fish from the Ludlow of Yunnan,
China, that represents the oldest near-complete gnathostome (jawed vertebrate).
The postcranial skeleton of this fish includes a primitive pectoral girdle and
median fin spine as in non-osteichthyan gnathostomes, but a derived macromeric
squamation as in crown osteichthyans, and substantiates the unexpected mix of
postcranial features in basal sarcopterygians, previously restored from the
disarticulated remains of Psarolepis. As the oldest articulated sarcopterygian,
the new taxon offers insights into the origin and early divergence of
osteichthyans, and indicates that the minimum date for the
actinopterygian-sarcopterygian split was no later than 419 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07855 
PMID: 19325627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):461-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07963.

Principles of ubiquitin and SUMO modifications in DNA repair.

Bergink S(1), Jentsch S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Am
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.

With the discovery in the late 1980s that the DNA-repair gene RAD6 encodes a
ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, it became clear that protein modification by
ubiquitin conjugation has a much broader significance than had previously been
assumed. Now, two decades later, ubiquitin and its cousin SUMO are implicated in 
a range of human diseases, including breast cancer and Fanconi anaemia, giving
fresh momentum to studies focused on the relationships between ubiquitin, SUMO
and DNA-repair pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07963 
PMID: 19325626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):453-60. doi: 10.1038/nature07962.

The ubiquitylation machinery of the endoplasmic reticulum.

Hirsch C(1), Gauss R, Horn SC, Neuber O, Sommer T.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13125
Berlin, Germany.

As proteins travel through the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a quality-control
system retains newly synthesized polypeptides and supports their maturation. Only
properly folded proteins are released to their designated destinations. Proteins 
that cannot mature are left to accumulate, impairing the function of the ER. To
maintain homeostasis, the protein-quality-control system singles out aberrant
polypeptides and delivers them to the cytosol, where they are destroyed by the
proteasome. The importance of this pathway is evident from the growing list of
pathologies associated with quality-control defects in the ER.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07962 
PMID: 19325625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):445-52. doi: 10.1038/nature07961.

The ESCRT machinery in endosomal sorting of ubiquitylated membrane proteins.

Raiborg C(1), Stenmark H.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cancer Biomedicine, Norwegian Radium Hospital, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.

Selective trafficking of membrane proteins to lysosomes for destruction is
required for proper cell signalling and metabolism. Ubiquitylation aids this
process by specifying which proteins should be transported to the lysosome lumen 
by the multivesicular endosome pathway. The endosomal sorting complex required
for transport (ESCRT) machinery sorts cargo labelled with ubiquitin into
invaginations of endosome membranes. Then, through a highly conserved mechanism
also used in cytokinesis and viral budding, it mediates the breaking off of the
cargo-containing intraluminal vesicles from the perimeter membrane. The
involvement of the ESCRT machinery in suppressing diseases such as cancer,
neurodegeneration and infections underscores its importance to the cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07961 
PMID: 19325624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):438-44. doi: 10.1038/nature07960.

Targeting the ubiquitin system in cancer therapy.

Hoeller D(1), Dikic I.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Biochemistry, Innsbruck Medical University, Biocenter,
Fritz-Pregl-Strasse 3, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

The ubiquitin system is a network of proteins dedicated to the ubiquitylation of 
cellular targets and the subsequent control of numerous cellular functions. The
deregulation of components of this elaborate network leads to human pathogenesis,
including the development of many types of tumour. Alterations in the ubiquitin
system that occur during the initiation and progression of cancer are now being
uncovered, and this knowledge is starting to be exploited for both molecular
diagnostics and the development of novel strategies to combat cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07960 
PMID: 19325623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):430-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07959.

Ubiquitylation in innate and adaptive immunity.

Bhoj VG(1), Chen ZJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Protein ubiquitylation has emerged as a key mechanism that regulates immune
responses. Much like phosphorylation, ubiquitylation is a reversible covalent
modification that regulates the stability, activity and localization of target
proteins. As such, ubiquitylation regulates the development of the immune system 
and many phases of the immune response, including its initiation, propagation and
termination. Recent work has shown that several ubiquitin ligases help to prevent
the immune system from attacking self tissues. The dysfunction of several
ubiquitin ligases has been linked to autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07959 
PMID: 19325622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):422-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07958.

Origin and function of ubiquitin-like proteins.

Hochstrasser M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yale University, Department of Molecular Biophysics & Biochemistry, 266
Whitney Avenue, PO Box 208114, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
mark.hochstrasser@yale.edu

Eukaryotic proteins can be modified through attachment to various small molecules
and proteins. One such modification is conjugation to ubiquitin and
ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs), which controls an enormous range of physiological
processes. Bound UBLs mainly regulate the interactions of proteins with other
macromolecules, for example binding to the proteasome or recruitment to
chromatin. The various UBL systems use related enzymes to attach specific UBLs to
proteins (or other molecules), and most of these attachments are transient. There
is increasing evidence suggesting that such UBL-protein modification evolved from
prokaryotic sulphurtransferase systems or related enzymes. Moreover, proteins
similar to UBL-conjugating enzymes and UBL-deconjugating enzymes seem to have
already been widespread at the time of the last common ancestor of eukaryotes,
suggesting that UBL-protein conjugation did not first evolve in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07958 
PMCID: PMC2819001
PMID: 19325621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature07879. Epub 2009 Mar 8.

Electromotive force and huge magnetoresistance in magnetic tunnel junctions.

Pham NH(1), Ohya S, Tanaka M, Barnes SE, Maekawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Systems, The University
of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):E6.

The electromotive force (e.m.f.) predicted by Faraday's law reflects the forces
acting on the charge, -e, of an electron moving through a device or circuit, and 
is proportional to the time derivative of the magnetic field. This conventional
e.m.f. is usually absent for stationary circuits and static magnetic fields.
There are also forces that act on the spin of an electron; it has been recently
predicted that, for circuits that are in part composed of ferromagnetic
materials, there arises an e.m.f. of spin origin even for a static magnetic
field. This e.m.f. can be attributed to a time-varying magnetization of the host 
material, such as the motion of magnetic domains in a static magnetic field, and 
reflects the conversion of magnetic to electrical energy. Here we show that such 
an e.m.f. can indeed be induced by a static magnetic field in magnetic tunnel
junctions containing zinc-blende-structured MnAs quantum nanomagnets. The
observed e.m.f. operates on a timescale of approximately 10(2)-10(3) seconds and 
results from the conversion of the magnetic energy of the superparamagnetic MnAs 
nanomagnets into electrical energy when these magnets undergo magnetic quantum
tunnelling. As a consequence, a huge magnetoresistance of up to 100,000 per cent 
is observed for certain bias voltages. Our results strongly support the
contention that, in magnetic nanostructures, Faraday's law of induction must be
generalized to account for forces of purely spin origin. The huge
magnetoresistance and e.m.f. may find potential applications in high sensitivity 
magnetic sensors, as well as in new active devices such as 'spin batteries'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07879 
PMID: 19270681 


698. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07768. Epub 2009 Mar 1.

Nicotine binding to brain receptors requires a strong cation-pi interaction.

Xiu X(1), Puskar NL, Shanata JA, Lester HA, Dougherty DA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 East California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Nicotine addiction begins with high-affinity binding of nicotine to acetylcholine
(ACh) receptors in the brain. The end result is over 4,000,000 smoking-related
deaths annually worldwide and the largest source of preventable mortality in
developed countries. Stress reduction, pleasure, improved cognition and other
central nervous system effects are strongly associated with smoking. However, if 
nicotine activated ACh receptors found in muscle as potently as it does brain ACh
receptors, smoking would cause intolerable and perhaps fatal muscle contractions.
Despite extensive pharmacological, functional and structural studies of ACh
receptors, the basis for the differential action of nicotine on brain compared
with muscle ACh receptors has not been determined. Here we show that at the
alpha4beta2 brain receptors thought to underlie nicotine addiction, the high
affinity for nicotine is the result of a strong cation-pi interaction to a
specific aromatic amino acid of the receptor, TrpB. In contrast, the low affinity
for nicotine at the muscle-type ACh receptor is largely due to the fact that this
key interaction is absent, even though the immediate binding site residues,
including the key amino acid TrpB, are identical in the brain and muscle
receptors. At the same time a hydrogen bond from nicotine to the backbone
carbonyl of TrpB is enhanced in the neuronal receptor relative to the muscle
type. A point mutation near TrpB that differentiates alpha4beta2 and muscle-type 
receptors seems to influence the shape of the binding site, allowing nicotine to 
interact more strongly with TrpB in the neuronal receptor. ACh receptors are
established therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia,
Parkinson's disease, smoking cessation, pain, attention-deficit hyperactivity
disorder, epilepsy, autism and depression. Along with solving a chemical mystery 
in nicotine addiction, our results provide guidance for efforts to develop drugs 
that target specific types of nicotinic receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07768 
PMCID: PMC2755585
PMID: 19252481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature07726. Epub 2009 Feb 11.

Chromatin remodelling factor Mll1 is essential for neurogenesis from postnatal
neural stem cells.

Lim DA(1), Huang YC, Swigut T, Mirick AL, Garcia-Verdugo JM, Wysocka J, Ernst P, 
Alvarez-Buylla A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco,
505 Parnassus Street M779, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
limd@neurosurg.ucsf.edu

Epigenetic mechanisms that maintain neurogenesis throughout adult life remain
poorly understood. Trithorax group (trxG) and Polycomb group (PcG) gene products 
are part of an evolutionarily conserved chromatin remodelling system that
activate or silence gene expression, respectively. Although PcG member Bmi1 has
been shown to be required for postnatal neural stem cell self-renewal, the role
of trxG genes remains unknown. Here we show that the trxG member Mll1
(mixed-lineage leukaemia 1) is required for neurogenesis in the mouse postnatal
brain. Mll1-deficient subventricular zone neural stem cells survive, proliferate 
and efficiently differentiate into glial lineages; however, neuronal
differentiation is severely impaired. In Mll1-deficient cells, early proneural
Mash1 (also known as Ascl1) and gliogenic Olig2 expression are preserved, but
Dlx2, a key downstream regulator of subventricular zone neurogenesis, is not
expressed. Overexpression of Dlx2 can rescue neurogenesis in Mll1-deficient
cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrates that Dlx2 is a direct target of
MLL in subventricular zone cells. In differentiating wild-type subventricular
zone cells, Mash1, Olig2 and Dlx2 loci have high levels of histone 3
trimethylated at lysine 4 (H3K4me3), consistent with their transcription. In
contrast, in Mll1-deficient subventricular zone cells, chromatin at Dlx2 is
bivalently marked by both H3K4me3 and histone 3 trimethylated at lysine 27
(H3K27me3), and the Dlx2 gene fails to properly activate. These data support a
model in which Mll1 is required to resolve key silenced bivalent loci in
postnatal neural precursors to the actively transcribed state for the induction
of neurogenesis, but not for gliogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07726 
PMCID: PMC3800116
PMID: 19212323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):501-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07722. Epub 2009 Feb 8.

Specific synapses develop preferentially among sister excitatory neurons in the
neocortex.

Yu YC(1), Bultje RS, Wang X, Shi SH.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre, 1275
York Avenue, USA.

Neurons in the mammalian neocortex are organized into functional columns. Within 
a column, highly specific synaptic connections are formed to ensure that similar 
physiological properties are shared by neuron ensembles spanning from the pia to 
the white matter. Recent studies indicate that synaptic connectivity in the
neocortex is sparse and highly specific to allow even adjacent neurons to convey 
information independently. How this fine-scale microcircuit is constructed to
create a functional columnar architecture at the level of individual neurons
largely remains a mystery. Here we investigate whether radial clones of
excitatory neurons arising from the same mother cell in the developing neocortex 
serve as a substrate for the formation of this highly specific microcircuit. We
labelled ontogenetic radial clones of excitatory neurons in the mouse neocortex
by in utero intraventricular injection of enhanced green fluorescent protein
(EGFP)-expressing retroviruses around the onset of the peak phase of neocortical 
neurogenesis. Multiple-electrode whole-cell recordings were performed to probe
synapse formation among these EGFP-labelled sister excitatory neurons in radial
clones and the adjacent non-siblings during postnatal stages. We found that
radially aligned sister excitatory neurons have a propensity for developing
unidirectional chemical synapses with each other rather than with neighbouring
non-siblings. Moreover, these synaptic connections display the same interlaminar 
directional preference as those observed in the mature neocortex. These results
indicate that specific microcircuits develop preferentially within ontogenetic
radial clones of excitatory neurons in the developing neocortex and contribute to
the emergence of functional columnar microarchitectures in the mature neocortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07722 
PMCID: PMC2727717
PMID: 19204731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07713. Epub 2009 Feb 8.

Sphingosine-1-phosphate mobilizes osteoclast precursors and regulates bone
homeostasis.

Ishii M(1), Egen JG, Klauschen F, Meier-Schellersheim M, Saeki Y, Vacher J, Proia
RL, Germain RN.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Biology Section, Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892-1892, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Jun 17;465(7300):966.

Osteoclasts are the only somatic cells with bone-resorbing capacity and, as such,
they have a critical role not only in normal bone homeostasis (called 'bone
remodelling') but also in the pathogenesis of bone destructive disorders such as 
rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis. A major focus of research in the field has
been on gene regulation by osteoclastogenic cytokines such as receptor activator 
of NF-kappaB-ligand (RANKL, also known as TNFSF11) and TNF-alpha, both of which
have been well documented to contribute to osteoclast terminal differentiation. A
crucial process that has been less well studied is the trafficking of osteoclast 
precursors to and from the bone surface, where they undergo cell fusion to form
the fully differentiated multinucleated cells that mediate bone resorption. Here 
we report that sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator enriched in blood,
induces chemotaxis and regulates the migration of osteoclast precursors not only 
in culture but also in vivo, contributing to the dynamic control of bone mineral 
homeostasis. Cells with the properties of osteoclast precursors express
functional S1P(1) receptors and exhibit positive chemotaxis along an S1P gradient
in vitro. Intravital two-photon imaging of bone tissues showed that a potent
S1P(1) agonist, SEW2871, stimulated motility of osteoclast precursor-containing
monocytoid populations in vivo. Osteoclast/monocyte (CD11b, also known as ITGAM) 
lineage-specific conditional S1P(1) knockout mice showed osteoporotic changes due
to increased osteoclast attachment to the bone surface. Furthermore, treatment
with the S1P(1) agonist FTY720 relieved ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis in mice 
by reducing the number of mature osteoclasts attached to the bone surface.
Together, these data provide evidence that S1P controls the migratory behaviour
of osteoclast precursors, dynamically regulating bone mineral homeostasis, and
identifies a critical control point in osteoclastogenesis that may have potential
as a therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07713 
PMCID: PMC2785034
PMID: 19204730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):519-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07687. Epub 2009 Feb 8.

Dynamic expression of epidermal caspase 8 simulates a wound healing response.

Lee P(1), Lee DJ, Chan C, Chen SW, Ch'en I, Jamora C.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, Division of Biological Sciences,
Natural Science Building, Room 6311, 9500 Gilman Drive, MC 0380, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Tissue homeostasis and regeneration are regulated by an intricate balance of
seemingly competing processes-proliferation versus differentiation, and cell
death versus survival. Here we demonstrate that the loss of epidermal caspase 8, 
an important mediator of apoptosis, recapitulates several phases of a wound
healing response in the mouse. The epidermal hyperplasia in the caspase 8 null
skin is the culmination of signals exchanged between epidermal keratinocytes,
dermal fibroblasts and leukocytic cells. This reciprocal interaction is initiated
by the paracrine signalling of interleukin 1alpha (IL1alpha), which activates
both skin stem cell proliferation and cutaneous inflammation. The non-canonical
secretion of IL1alpha is induced by a p38-MAPK-mediated upregulation of NALP3
(also known as NLRP3), leading to inflammasome assembly and caspase 1 activation.
Notably, the increased proliferation of basal keratinocytes is counterbalanced by
the growth arrest of suprabasal keratinocytes in the stratified epidermis by
IL1alpha-dependent NFkappaB signalling. Altogether, our findings illustrate how
the loss of caspase 8 can affect more than programmed cell death to alter the
local microenvironment and elicit processes common to wound repair and many
neoplastic skin disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07687 
PMCID: PMC2666261
PMID: 19204729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):509-13. doi: 10.1038/nature07710. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

AIM2 activates the inflammasome and cell death in response to cytoplasmic DNA.

Fernandes-Alnemri T(1), Yu JW, Datta P, Wu J, Alnemri ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Center for Apoptosis
Research, Kimmel Cancer Institute, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19107, USA.

Host- and pathogen-associated cytoplasmic double-stranded DNA triggers the
activation of a NALP3 (also known as cryopyrin and NLRP3)-independent
inflammasome, which activates caspase-1 leading to maturation of
pro-interleukin-1beta and inflammation. The nature of the cytoplasmic-DNA-sensing
inflammasome is currently unknown. Here we show that AIM2 (absent in melanoma 2),
an interferon-inducible HIN-200 family member that contains an amino-terminal
pyrin domain and a carboxy-terminal oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-binding
domain, senses cytoplasmic DNA by means of its
oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-binding domain and interacts with ASC
(apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD) through its pyrin
domain to activate caspase-1. The interaction of AIM2 with ASC also leads to the 
formation of the ASC pyroptosome, which induces pyroptotic cell death in cells
containing caspase-1. Knockdown of AIM2 by short interfering RNA reduced
inflammasome/pyroptosome activation by cytoplasmic DNA in human and mouse
macrophages, whereas stable expression of AIM2 in the non-responsive human
embryonic kidney 293T cell line conferred responsiveness to cytoplasmic DNA. Our 
results show that cytoplasmic DNA triggers formation of the AIM2 inflammasome by 
inducing AIM2 oligomerization. This study identifies AIM2 as an important
inflammasome component that senses potentially dangerous cytoplasmic DNA, leading
to activation of the ASC pyroptosome and caspase-1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07710 
PMCID: PMC2862225
PMID: 19158676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):514-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07725. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

AIM2 recognizes cytosolic dsDNA and forms a caspase-1-activating inflammasome
with ASC.

Hornung V(1), Ablasser A, Charrel-Dennis M, Bauernfeind F, Horvath G, Caffrey DR,
Latz E, Fitzgerald KA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and Immunology, Department of Medicine,
University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA. 
veit.hornung@uni-bonn.de

The innate immune system senses nucleic acids by germline-encoded pattern
recognition receptors. RNA is sensed by Toll-like receptor members TLR3, TLR7 and
TLR8, or by the RNA helicases RIG-I (also known as DDX58) and MDA-5 (IFIH1).
Little is known about sensors for cytoplasmic DNA that trigger antiviral and/or
inflammatory responses. The best characterized of these responses involves
activation of the TANK-binding kinase (TBK1)-interferon regulatory factor 3
(IRF3) signalling axis to trigger transcriptional induction of type I interferon 
genes. A second, less well-defined pathway leads to the activation of an
'inflammasome' that, via caspase-1, controls the catalytic cleavage of the
pro-forms of the cytokines IL1beta and IL18 (refs 6, 7). Using mouse and human
cells, here we identify the PYHIN (pyrin and HIN domain-containing protein)
family member absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2) as a receptor for cytosolic DNA, which 
regulates caspase-1. The HIN200 domain of AIM2 binds to DNA, whereas the pyrin
domain (but not that of the other PYHIN family members) associates with the
adaptor molecule ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a
caspase activation and recruitment domain) to activate both NF-kappaB and
caspase-1. Knockdown of Aim2 abrogates caspase-1 activation in response to
cytoplasmic double-stranded DNA and the double-stranded DNA vaccinia virus.
Collectively, these observations identify AIM2 as a new receptor for cytoplasmic 
DNA, which forms an inflammasome with the ligand and ASC to activate caspase-1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07725 
PMCID: PMC2726264
PMID: 19158675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):505-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07683. Epub 2009 Jan 11.

Genetic architecture of mouse skin inflammation and tumour susceptibility.

Quigley DA(1), To MD, Pérez-Losada J, Pelorosso FG, Mao JH, Nagase H, Ginzinger
DG, Balmain A.

Author information: 
(1)Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94115, USA.

Germline polymorphisms in model organisms and humans influence susceptibility to 
complex trait diseases such as inflammation and cancer. Mice of the Mus spretus
species are resistant to tumour development, and crosses between M. spretus and
susceptible Mus musculus strains have been used to map locations of genetic
variants that contribute to skin cancer susceptibility. We have integrated
germline polymorphisms with gene expression in normal skin from a M. musculus x
M. spretus backcross to generate a network view of the gene expression
architecture of mouse skin. Here we demonstrate how this approach identifies
expression motifs that contribute to tissue organization and biological functions
related to inflammation, haematopoiesis, cell cycle control and tumour
susceptibility. Motifs associated with inflammation, epidermal barrier function
and proliferation are differentially regulated in backcross mice susceptible or
resistant to tumour development. The intestinal stem cell marker Lgr5 is
identified as a candidate master regulator of the hair follicle, and the vitamin 
D receptor (Vdr) is linked to coordinated control of epidermal barrier function, 
inflammation and tumour susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07683 
PMCID: PMC4460995
PMID: 19136944  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):357-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07882.

Defensin-like polypeptide LUREs are pollen tube attractants secreted from
synergid cells.

Okuda S(1), Tsutsui H, Shiina K, Sprunck S, Takeuchi H, Yui R, Kasahara RD,
Hamamura Y, Mizukami A, Susaki D, Kawano N, Sakakibara T, Namiki S, Itoh K,
Otsuka K, Matsuzaki M, Nozaki H, Kuroiwa T, Nakano A, Kanaoka MM, Dresselhaus T, 
Sasaki N, Higashiyama T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Science, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University,
Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 464-8602, Japan.

For more than 140 years, pollen tube guidance in flowering plants has been
thought to be mediated by chemoattractants derived from target ovules. However,
there has been no convincing evidence of any particular molecule being the true
attractant that actually controls the navigation of pollen tubes towards ovules. 
Emerging data indicate that two synergid cells on the side of the egg cell emit a
diffusible, species-specific signal to attract the pollen tube at the last step
of pollen tube guidance. Here we report that secreted, cysteine-rich polypeptides
(CRPs) in a subgroup of defensin-like proteins are attractants derived from the
synergid cells. We isolated synergid cells of Torenia fournieri, a unique plant
with a protruding embryo sac, to identify transcripts encoding secreted proteins 
as candidate molecules for the chemoattractant(s). We found two CRPs, abundantly 
and predominantly expressed in the synergid cell, which are secreted to the
surface of the egg apparatus. Moreover, they showed activity in vitro to attract 
competent pollen tubes of their own species and were named as LUREs. Injection of
morpholino antisense oligomers against the LUREs impaired pollen tube attraction,
supporting the finding that LUREs are the attractants derived from the synergid
cells of T. fournieri.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07882 
PMID: 19295610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):333-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07856.

An Early Cretaceous heterodontosaurid dinosaur with filamentous integumentary
structures.

Zheng XT(1), You HL, Xu X, Dong ZM.

Author information: 
(1)Shandong Tianyu Museum of Nature, Lianhuashan Road West, Pingyi, Shandong,
273300, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):293-5.

Ornithischia is one of the two major groups of dinosaurs, with
heterodontosauridae as one of its major clades. Heterodontosauridae is
characterized by small, gracile bodies and a problematic phylogenetic position.
Recent phylogenetic work indicates that it represents the most basal group of all
well-known ornithischians. Previous heterodontosaurid records are mainly from the
Early Jurassic period (205-190 million years ago) of Africa. Here we report a new
heterodontosaurid, Tianyulong confuciusi gen. et sp. nov., from the Early
Cretaceous period (144-99 million years ago) of western Liaoning Province, China.
Tianyulong extends the geographical distribution of heterodontosaurids to Asia
and confirms the clade's previously questionable temporal range extension into
the Early Cretaceous period. More surprisingly, Tianyulong bears long, singular
and unbranched filamentous integumentary (outer skin) structures. This represents
the first confirmed report, to our knowledge, of filamentous integumentary
structures in an ornithischian dinosaur.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07856 
PMID: 19295609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):329-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07809.

Modelling West Antarctic ice sheet growth and collapse through the past five
million years.

Pollard D(1), DeConto RM.

Author information: 
(1)Earth and Environmental Systems Institute, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA. pollard@essc.psu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):295-6.

The West Antarctic ice sheet (WAIS), with ice volume equivalent to approximately 
5 m of sea level, has long been considered capable of past and future
catastrophic collapse. Today, the ice sheet is fringed by vulnerable floating ice
shelves that buttress the fast flow of inland ice streams. Grounding lines are
several hundred metres below sea level and the bed deepens upstream, raising the 
prospect of runaway retreat. Projections of future WAIS behaviour have been
hampered by limited understanding of past variations and their underlying forcing
mechanisms. Its variation since the Last Glacial Maximum is best known, with
grounding lines advancing to the continental-shelf edges around approximately 15 
kyr ago before retreating to near-modern locations by approximately 3 kyr ago.
Prior collapses during the warmth of the early Pliocene epoch and some
Pleistocene interglacials have been suggested indirectly from records of sea
level and deep-sea-core isotopes, and by the discovery of open-ocean diatoms in
subglacial sediments. Until now, however, little direct evidence of such
behaviour has been available. Here we use a combined ice sheet/ice shelf model
capable of high-resolution nesting with a new treatment of grounding-line
dynamics and ice-shelf buttressing to simulate Antarctic ice sheet variations
over the past five million years. Modelled WAIS variations range from full
glacial extents with grounding lines near the continental shelf break,
intermediate states similar to modern, and brief but dramatic retreats, leaving
only small, isolated ice caps on West Antarctic islands. Transitions between
glacial, intermediate and collapsed states are relatively rapid, taking one to
several thousand years. Our simulation is in good agreement with a new sediment
record (ANDRILL AND-1B) recovered from the western Ross Sea, indicating a
long-term trend from more frequently collapsed to more glaciated states, dominant
40-kyr cyclicity in the Pliocene, and major retreats at marine isotope stage 31 (
approximately 1.07 Myr ago) and other super-interglacials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07809 
PMID: 19295608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):322-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07867.

Obliquity-paced Pliocene West Antarctic ice sheet oscillations.

Naish T(1), Powell R, Levy R, Wilson G, Scherer R, Talarico F, Krissek L, Niessen
F, Pompilio M, Wilson T, Carter L, DeConto R, Huybers P, McKay R, Pollard D, Ross
J, Winter D, Barrett P, Browne G, Cody R, Cowan E, Crampton J, Dunbar G, Dunbar
N, Florindo F, Gebhardt C, Graham I, Hannah M, Hansaraj D, Harwood D, Helling D, 
Henrys S, Hinnov L, Kuhn G, Kyle P, Läufer A, Maffioli P, Magens D, Mandernack K,
McIntosh W, Millan C, Morin R, Ohneiser C, Paulsen T, Persico D, Raine I, Reed J,
Riesselman C, Sagnotti L, Schmitt D, Sjunneskog C, Strong P, Taviani M, Vogel S, 
Wilch T, Williams T.

Author information: 
(1)Antarctic Research Centre, Victoria University of Wellington, Kelburn Parade, 
PO Box 600, Wellington 6012, New Zealand. tim.naish@vuw.ac.nz

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):295-6.

Thirty years after oxygen isotope records from microfossils deposited in ocean
sediments confirmed the hypothesis that variations in the Earth's orbital
geometry control the ice ages, fundamental questions remain over the response of 
the Antarctic ice sheets to orbital cycles. Furthermore, an understanding of the 
behaviour of the marine-based West Antarctic ice sheet (WAIS) during the
'warmer-than-present' early-Pliocene epoch ( approximately 5-3 Myr ago) is needed
to better constrain the possible range of ice-sheet behaviour in the context of
future global warming. Here we present a marine glacial record from the upper 600
m of the AND-1B sediment core recovered from beneath the northwest part of the
Ross ice shelf by the ANDRILL programme and demonstrate well-dated, approximately
40-kyr cyclic variations in ice-sheet extent linked to cycles in insolation
influenced by changes in the Earth's axial tilt (obliquity) during the Pliocene. 
Our data provide direct evidence for orbitally induced oscillations in the WAIS, 
which periodically collapsed, resulting in a switch from grounded ice, or ice
shelves, to open waters in the Ross embayment when planetary temperatures were up
to approximately 3 degrees C warmer than today and atmospheric CO(2)
concentration was as high as approximately 400 p.p.m.v. (refs 5, 6). The evidence
is consistent with a new ice-sheet/ice-shelf model that simulates fluctuations in
Antarctic ice volume of up to +7 m in equivalent sea level associated with the
loss of the WAIS and up to +3 m in equivalent sea level from the East Antarctic
ice sheet, in response to ocean-induced melting paced by obliquity. During
interglacial times, diatomaceous sediments indicate high surface-water
productivity, minimal summer sea ice and air temperatures above freezing,
suggesting an additional influence of surface melt under conditions of elevated
CO(2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07867 
PMID: 19295607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):319-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07818.

Temperature-dependent thermal diffusivity of the Earth's crust and implications
for magmatism.

Whittington AG(1), Hofmeister AM, Nabelek PI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri 
65211, USA. whittingtona@missouri.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 May 7;459(7243):122.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):292-3.

The thermal evolution of planetary crust and lithosphere is largely governed by
the rate of heat transfer by conduction. The governing physical properties are
thermal diffusivity (kappa) and conductivity (k = kapparhoC(P)), where rho
denotes density and C(P) denotes specific heat capacity at constant pressure.
Although for crustal rocks both kappa and k decrease above ambient temperature,
most thermal models of the Earth's lithosphere assume constant values for kappa (
approximately 1 mm(2) s(-1)) and/or k ( approximately 3 to 5 W m(-1) K(-1)) owing
to the large experimental uncertainties associated with conventional contact
methods at high temperatures. Recent advances in laser-flash analysis permit
accurate (+/-2 per cent) measurements on minerals and rocks to geologically
relevant temperatures. Here we provide data from laser-flash analysis for three
different crustal rock types, showing that kappa strongly decreases from 1.5-2.5 
mm(2) s(-1) at ambient conditions, approaching 0.5 mm(2) s(-1) at mid-crustal
temperatures. The latter value is approximately half that commonly assumed, and
hot middle to lower crust is therefore a much more effective thermal insulator
than previously thought. Above the quartz alpha-beta phase transition, crustal
kappa is nearly independent of temperature, and similar to that of mantle
materials. Calculated values of k indicate that its negative dependence on
temperature is smaller than that of kappa, owing to the increase of C(P) with
increasing temperature, but k also diminishes by 50 per cent from the surface to 
the quartz alpha-beta transition. We present models of lithospheric thermal
evolution during continental collision and demonstrate that the temperature
dependence of kappa and C(P) leads to positive feedback between strain heating in
shear zones and more efficient thermal insulation, removing the requirement for
unusually high radiogenic heat production to achieve crustal melting
temperatures. Positive feedback between heating, increased thermal insulation and
partial melting is predicted to occur in many tectonic settings, and in both the 
crust and the mantle, facilitating crustal reworking and planetary
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07818 
PMID: 19295606 


711. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):314-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07847.

Hybrid organic-inorganic rotaxanes and molecular shuttles.

Lee CF(1), Leigh DA, Pritchard RG, Schultz D, Teat SJ, Timco GA, Winpenny RE.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Edinburgh, The King's Buildings, West Mains
Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JJ, UK.

The tetravalency of carbon and its ability to form covalent bonds with itself and
other elements enables large organic molecules with complex structures, functions
and dynamics to be constructed. The varied electronic configurations and bonding 
patterns of inorganic elements, on the other hand, can impart diverse electronic,
magnetic, catalytic and other useful properties to molecular-level structures.
Some hybrid organic-inorganic materials that combine features of both chemistries
have been developed, most notably metal-organic frameworks, dense and extended
organic-inorganic frameworks and coordination polymers. Metal ions have also been
incorporated into molecules that contain interlocked subunits, such as rotaxanes 
and catenanes, and structures in which many inorganic clusters encircle polymer
chains have been described. Here we report the synthesis of a series of discrete 
rotaxane molecules in which inorganic and organic structural units are linked
together mechanically at the molecular level. Structural units (dialkyammonium
groups) in dumb-bell-shaped organic molecules template the assembly of
essentially inorganic 'rings' about 'axles' to form rotaxanes consisting of
various numbers of rings and axles. One of the rotaxanes behaves as a 'molecular 
shuttle': the ring moves between two binding sites on the axle in a
large-amplitude motion typical of some synthetic molecular machine systems. The
architecture of the rotaxanes ensures that the electronic, magnetic and
paramagnetic characteristics of the inorganic rings-properties that could make
them suitable as qubits for quantum computers-can influence, and potentially be
influenced by, the organic portion of the molecule.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07847 
PMID: 19295605 


712. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):310-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07846.

Femtosecond characterization of vibrational optical activity of chiral molecules.

Rhee H(1), June YG, Lee JS, Lee KK, Ha JH, Kim ZH, Jeon SJ, Cho M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, Korea.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):289-90.

Optical activity is the result of chiral molecules interacting differently with
left versus right circularly polarized light. Because of this intrinsic link to
molecular structure, the determination of optical activity through circular
dichroism (CD) spectroscopy has long served as a routine method for obtaining
structural information about chemical and biological systems in condensed phases.
A recent development is time-resolved CD spectroscopy, which can in principle map
the structural changes associated with biomolecular function and thus lead to
mechanistic insights into fundamental biological processes. But implementing
time-resolved CD measurements is experimentally challenging because CD is a
notoriously weak effect (a factor of 10(-4)-10(-6) smaller than absorption). In
fact, this problem has so far prevented time-resolved vibrational CD experiments.
Here we show that vibrational CD spectroscopy with femtosecond time resolution
can be realized when using heterodyned spectral interferometry to detect the
phase and amplitude of the infrared optical activity free-induction-decay field
in time (much like in a pulsed NMR experiment). We show that we can detect
extremely weak signals in the presence of large achiral background contributions,
by simultaneously measuring with a femtosecond laser pulse the vibrational CD and
optical rotatory dispersion spectra of dissolved chiral limonene molecules. We
have so far only targeted molecules in equilibrium, but it would be
straightforward to extend the method for the observation of ultrafast structural 
changes such as those occurring during protein folding or asymmetric chemical
reactions. That is, we should now be in a position to produce 'molecular motion
pictures' of fundamental molecular processes from a chiral perspective.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07846 
PMID: 19295604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):305-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07841.

Design and engineering of an O(2) transport protein.

Koder RL(1), Anderson JL, Solomon LA, Reddy KS, Moser CC, Dutton PL.

Author information: 
(1)The Johnson Research Foundation, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

The principles of natural protein engineering are obscured by overlapping
functions and complexity accumulated through natural selection and evolution.
Completely artificial proteins offer a clean slate on which to define and test
these protein engineering principles, while recreating and extending natural
functions. Here we introduce this method with the design of an oxygen transport
protein, akin to human neuroglobin. Beginning with a simple and unnatural
helix-forming sequence with just three different amino acids, we assembled a
four-helix bundle, positioned histidines to bis-histidine ligate haems, and
exploited helical rotation and glutamate burial on haem binding to introduce
distal histidine strain and facilitate O(2) binding. For stable oxygen binding
without haem oxidation, water is excluded by simple packing of the protein
interior and loops that reduce helical-interface mobility. O(2) affinities and
exchange timescales match natural globins with distal histidines, with the
remarkable exception that O(2) binds tighter than CO.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07841 
PMCID: PMC3539743
PMID: 19295603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):299-304. doi: 10.1038/nature07842.

Activation of CaMKII in single dendritic spines during long-term potentiation.

Lee SJ(1), Escobedo-Lozoya Y, Szatmari EM, Yasuda R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):296-7.

Calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) plays a central part in long-term
potentiation (LTP), which underlies some forms of learning and memory. Here we
monitored the spatiotemporal dynamics of CaMKII activation in individual
dendritic spines during LTP using two-photon fluorescence lifetime imaging
microscopy, in combination with two-photon glutamate uncaging. Induction of LTP
and associated spine enlargement in single spines triggered transient (
approximately 1 min) CaMKII activation restricted to the stimulated spines.
CaMKII in spines was specifically activated by NMDA receptors and L-type
voltage-sensitive calcium channels, presumably by nanodomain Ca(2+) near the
channels, in response to glutamate uncaging and depolarization, respectively. The
high degree of compartmentalization and channel specificity of CaMKII signalling 
allow stimuli-specific spatiotemporal patterns of CaMKII signalling and may be
important for synapse-specificity of synaptic plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07842 
PMCID: PMC2719773
PMID: 19295602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):E1-4; discussion E5. doi: 10.1038/nature07776.

Hippopotamus and whale phylogeny.

Geisler JH(1), Theodor JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geography and Georgia Southern Museum, Georgia
Southern University, Statesboro, Georgia 30460-8149, USA.
geislerj@georgiasouthern.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Dec 20;450(7173):1190-4.

Thewissen et al. describe new fossils from India that apparently support a
phylogeny that places Cetacea (that is, whales, dolphins, porpoises) as the
sister group to the extinct family Raoellidae, and Hippopotamidae as more closely
related to pigs and peccaries (that is, Suina) than to cetaceans. However, our
reanalysis of a modified version of the data set they used differs in retaining
molecular characters and demonstrates that Hippopotamidae is the closest extant
family to Cetacea and that raoellids are the closest extinct group, consistent
with previous phylogenetic studies. This topology supports the view that the
aquatic adaptations in hippopotamids and cetaceans are inherited from their
common ancestor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07776 
PMID: 19295550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):337-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07743. Epub 2009 Feb 11.

Population genomics of domestic and wild yeasts.

Liti G(1), Carter DM, Moses AM, Warringer J, Parts L, James SA, Davey RP, Roberts
IN, Burt A, Koufopanou V, Tsai IJ, Bergman CM, Bensasson D, O'Kelly MJ, van
Oudenaarden A, Barton DB, Bailes E, Nguyen AN, Jones M, Quail MA, Goodhead I,
Sims S, Smith F, Blomberg A, Durbin R, Louis EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Genetics, Queen's Medical Centre, University of Nottingham,
Nottingham NG7 2UH, UK.

Since the completion of the genome sequence of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in 1996
(refs 1, 2), there has been a large increase in complete genome sequences,
accompanied by great advances in our understanding of genome evolution. Although 
little is known about the natural and life histories of yeasts in the wild, there
are an increasing number of studies looking at ecological and geographic
distributions, population structure and sexual versus asexual reproduction. Less 
well understood at the whole genome level are the evolutionary processes acting
within populations and species that lead to adaptation to different environments,
phenotypic differences and reproductive isolation. Here we present one- to
fourfold or more coverage of the genome sequences of over seventy isolates of the
baker's yeast S. cerevisiae and its closest relative, Saccharomyces paradoxus. We
examine variation in gene content, single nucleotide polymorphisms, nucleotide
insertions and deletions, copy numbers and transposable elements. We find that
phenotypic variation broadly correlates with global genome-wide phylogenetic
relationships. S. paradoxus populations are well delineated along geographic
boundaries, whereas the variation among worldwide S. cerevisiae isolates shows
less differentiation and is comparable to a single S. paradoxus population.
Rather than one or two domestication events leading to the extant baker's yeasts,
the population structure of S. cerevisiae consists of a few well-defined,
geographically isolated lineages and many different mosaics of these lineages,
supporting the idea that human influence provided the opportunity for
cross-breeding and production of new combinations of pre-existing variations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07743 
PMCID: PMC2659681
PMID: 19212322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):342-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07670. Epub 2009 Feb 11.

Comprehensive polymorphism survey elucidates population structure of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Schacherer J(1), Shapiro JA, Ruderfer DM, Kruglyak L.

Author information: 
(1)Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comprehensive identification of polymorphisms among individuals within a species 
is essential both for studying the genetic basis of phenotypic differences and
for elucidating the evolutionary history of the species. Large-scale polymorphism
surveys have recently been reported for human, mouse and Arabidopsis thaliana.
Here we report a nucleotide-level survey of genomic variation in a diverse
collection of 63 Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains sampled from different
ecological niches (beer, bread, vineyards, immunocompromised individuals, various
fermentations and nature) and from locations on different continents. We
hybridized genomic DNA from each strain to whole-genome tiling microarrays and
detected 1.89 million single nucleotide polymorphisms, which were grouped into
101,343 distinct segregating sites. We also identified 3,985 deletion events of
length >200 base pairs among the surveyed strains. We analysed the genome-wide
patterns of nucleotide polymorphism and deletion variants, and measured the
extent of linkage disequilibrium in S. cerevisiae. These results and the
polymorphism resource we have generated lay the foundation for genome-wide
association studies in yeast. We also examined the population structure of S.
cerevisiae, providing support for multiple domestication events as well as
insight into the origins of pathogenic strains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07670 
PMCID: PMC2782482
PMID: 19212320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):346-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07712. Epub 2009 Feb 8.

Antiviral immunity in Drosophila requires systemic RNA interference spread.

Saleh MC(1), Tassetto M, van Rij RP, Goic B, Gausson V, Berry B, Jacquier C,
Antoniewski C, Andino R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, San
Francisco 94122-2280, USA.

Multicellular organisms evolved sophisticated defence systems to confer
protection against pathogens. An important characteristic of these immune systems
is their ability to act both locally at the site of infection and at distal
uninfected locations. In insects, such as Drosophila melanogaster, RNA
interference (RNAi) mediates antiviral immunity. However, the antiviral RNAi
defence in flies seems to be a local, cell-autonomous process, as flies are
thought to be unable to generate a systemic RNAi response. Here we show that a
recently defined double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) uptake pathway is essential for
effective antiviral RNAi immunity in adult flies. Mutant flies defective in this 
dsRNA uptake pathway were hypersensitive to infection with Drosophila C virus and
Sindbis virus. Mortality in dsRNA-uptake-defective flies was accompanied by
100-to 10(5)-fold increases in viral titres and higher levels of viral RNA.
Furthermore, inoculating naked dsRNA into flies elicited a sequence-specific
antiviral immune response that required an intact dsRNA uptake pathway. These
findings suggest that spread of dsRNA to uninfected sites is essential for
effective antiviral immunity. Notably, infection with green fluorescent protein
(GFP)-tagged Sindbis virus suppressed expression of host-encoded GFP at a distal 
site. Thus, similar to protein-based immunity in vertebrates, the antiviral RNAi 
response in flies also relies on the systemic spread of a virus-specific immunity
signal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07712 
PMCID: PMC3978076
PMID: 19204732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):367-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07678. Epub 2009 Feb 1.

Transmembrane passage of hydrophobic compounds through a protein channel wall.

Hearn EM(1), Patel DR, Lepore BW, Indic M, van den Berg B.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Membrane proteins that transport hydrophobic compounds have important roles in
multi-drug resistance and can cause a number of diseases, underscoring the
importance of protein-mediated transport of hydrophobic compounds. Hydrophobic
compounds readily partition into regular membrane lipid bilayers, and their
transport through an aqueous protein channel is energetically unfavourable.
Alternative transport models involving acquisition from the lipid bilayer by
lateral diffusion have been proposed for hydrophobic substrates. So far, all
transport proteins for which a lateral diffusion mechanism has been proposed
function as efflux pumps. Here we present the first example of a lateral
diffusion mechanism for the uptake of hydrophobic substrates by the Escherichia
coli outer membrane long-chain fatty acid transporter FadL. A FadL mutant in
which a lateral opening in the barrel wall is constricted, but which is otherwise
structurally identical to wild-type FadL, does not transport substrates. A
crystal structure of FadL from Pseudomonas aeruginosa shows that the opening in
the wall of the beta-barrel is conserved and delineates a long, hydrophobic
tunnel that could mediate substrate passage from the extracellular environment,
through the polar lipopolysaccharide layer and, by means of the lateral opening
in the barrel wall, into the lipid bilayer from where the substrate can diffuse
into the periplasm. Because FadL homologues are found in pathogenic and
biodegrading bacteria, our results have implications for combating bacterial
infections and bioremediating xenobiotics in the environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07678 
PMCID: PMC2658730
PMID: 19182779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):351-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07674. Epub 2009 Feb 1.

Regulatory T-cell suppressor program co-opts transcription factor IRF4 to control
T(H)2 responses.

Zheng Y(1), Chaudhry A, Kas A, deRoos P, Kim JM, Chu TT, Corcoran L, Treuting P, 
Klein U, Rudensky AY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

In the course of infection or autoimmunity, particular transcription factors
orchestrate the differentiation of T(H)1, T(H)2 or T(H)17 effector cells, the
responses of which are limited by a distinct lineage of suppressive regulatory T 
cells (T(reg)). T(reg) cell differentiation and function are guided by the
transcription factor Foxp3, and their deficiency due to mutations in Foxp3
results in aggressive fatal autoimmune disease associated with sharply augmented 
T(H)1 and T(H)2 cytokine production. Recent studies suggested that Foxp3
regulates the bulk of the Foxp3-dependent transcriptional program indirectly
through a set of transcriptional regulators serving as direct Foxp3 targets. Here
we show that in mouse T(reg) cells, high amounts of interferon regulatory
factor-4 (IRF4), a transcription factor essential for T(H)2 effector cell
differentiation, is dependent on Foxp3 expression. We proposed that IRF4
expression endows T(reg) cells with the ability to suppress T(H)2 responses.
Indeed, ablation of a conditional Irf4 allele in T(reg) cells resulted in
selective dysregulation of T(H)2 responses, IL4-dependent immunoglobulin isotype 
production, and tissue lesions with pronounced plasma cell infiltration, in
contrast to the mononuclear-cell-dominated pathology typical of mice lacking
T(reg) cells. Our results indicate that T(reg) cells use components of the
transcriptional machinery, promoting a particular type of effector CD4(+) T cell 
differentiation, to efficiently restrain the corresponding type of the immune
response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07674 
PMCID: PMC2864791
PMID: 19182775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Nature. 2009 Mar 19;458(7236):362-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07667. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

The DNA-encoded nucleosome organization of a eukaryotic genome.

Kaplan N(1), Moore IK, Fondufe-Mittendorf Y, Gossett AJ, Tillo D, Field Y,
LeProust EM, Hughes TR, Lieb JD, Widom J, Segal E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

Nucleosome organization is critical for gene regulation. In living cells this
organization is determined by multiple factors, including the action of chromatin
remodellers, competition with site-specific DNA-binding proteins, and the DNA
sequence preferences of the nucleosomes themselves. However, it has been
difficult to estimate the relative importance of each of these mechanisms in
vivo, because in vivo nucleosome maps reflect the combined action of all
influencing factors. Here we determine the importance of nucleosome DNA sequence 
preferences experimentally by measuring the genome-wide occupancy of nucleosomes 
assembled on purified yeast genomic DNA. The resulting map, in which nucleosome
occupancy is governed only by the intrinsic sequence preferences of nucleosomes, 
is similar to in vivo nucleosome maps generated in three different growth
conditions. In vitro, nucleosome depletion is evident at many transcription
factor binding sites and around gene start and end sites, indicating that
nucleosome depletion at these sites in vivo is partly encoded in the genome. We
confirm these results with a micrococcal nuclease-independent experiment that
measures the relative affinity of nucleosomes for approximately 40,000
double-stranded 150-base-pair oligonucleotides. Using our in vitro data, we
devise a computational model of nucleosome sequence preferences that is
significantly correlated with in vivo nucleosome occupancy in Caenorhabditis
elegans. Our results indicate that the intrinsic DNA sequence preferences of
nucleosomes have a central role in determining the organization of nucleosomes in
vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07667 
PMCID: PMC2658732
PMID: 19092803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):201-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07843.

Distinct sensory representations of wind and near-field sound in the Drosophila
brain.

Yorozu S(1), Wong A, Fischer BJ, Dankert H, Kernan MJ, Kamikouchi A, Ito K,
Anderson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. yorozu@caltech.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):156-7.

Behavioural responses to wind are thought to have a critical role in controlling 
the dispersal and population genetics of wild Drosophila species, as well as
their navigation in flight, but their underlying neurobiological basis is
unknown. We show that Drosophila melanogaster, like wild-caught Drosophila
strains, exhibits robust wind-induced suppression of locomotion in response to
air currents delivered at speeds normally encountered in nature. Here we identify
wind-sensitive neurons in Johnston's organ, an antennal mechanosensory structure 
previously implicated in near-field sound detection (reviewed in refs 5 and 6).
Using enhancer trap lines targeted to different subsets of Johnston's organ
neurons, and a genetically encoded calcium indicator, we show that wind and
near-field sound (courtship song) activate distinct populations of Johnston's
organ neurons, which project to different regions of the antennal and
mechanosensory motor centre in the central brain. Selective genetic ablation of
wind-sensitive Johnston's organ neurons in the antenna abolishes wind-induced
suppression of locomotion behaviour, without impairing hearing. Moreover,
different neuronal subsets within the wind-sensitive population respond to
different directions of arista deflection caused by air flow and project to
different regions of the antennal and mechanosensory motor centre, providing a
rudimentary map of wind direction in the brain. Importantly, sound- and
wind-sensitive Johnston's organ neurons exhibit different intrinsic response
properties: the former are phasically activated by small, bi-directional,
displacements of the aristae, whereas the latter are tonically activated by
unidirectional, static deflections of larger magnitude. These different intrinsic
properties are well suited to the detection of oscillatory pulses of near-field
sound and laminar air flow, respectively. These data identify wind-sensitive
neurons in Johnston's organ, a structure that has been primarily associated with 
hearing, and reveal how the brain can distinguish different types of air particle
movements using a common sensory organ.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07843 
PMCID: PMC2755041
PMID: 19279637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):198-200. doi: 10.1038/nature07741.

Age of Zhoukoudian Homo erectus determined with (26)Al/(10)Be burial dating.

Shen G(1), Gao X, Gao B, Granger DE.

Author information: 
(1)College of Geographical Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210046, China. gjshen@njnu.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):153-4.

The age of Zhoukoudian Homo erectus, commonly known as 'Peking Man', has long
been pursued, but has remained problematic owing to the lack of suitable dating
methods. Here we report cosmogenic (26)Al/(10)Be burial dating of quartz
sediments and artefacts from the lower strata of Locality 1 in the southwestern
suburb of Beijing, China, where early representatives of Zhoukoudian Homo erectus
were discovered. This study marks the first radioisotopic dating of any early
hominin site in China beyond the range of mass spectrometric U-series dating. The
weighted mean of six meaningful age measurements, 0.77 +/- 0.08 million years
(Myr, mean +/- s.e.m.), provides the best age estimate for lower cultural layers 
7-10. Together with previously reported U-series dating of speleothem calcite and
palaeomagnetic stratigraphy, as well as sedimentological considerations, these
layers may be further correlated to S6-S7 in Chinese loess stratigraphy or marine
isotope stages (MIS) 17-19, in the range of approximately 0.68 to 0.78 Myr ago.
These ages are substantially older than previously supposed and may imply early
hominin's presence at the site in northern China through a relatively mild
glacial period corresponding to MIS 18.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07741 
PMID: 19279636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07837.

Uplift of the Longmen Shan and Tibetan plateau, and the 2008 Wenchuan (M = 7.9)
earthquake.

Hubbard J(1), Shaw JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, 20 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. jhubbard@fas.harvard.edu

The Longmen Shan mountain range, site of the devastating 12 May 2008 Wenchuan (M 
= 7.9) earthquake, defines the eastern margin of the Himalayan orogen and
exhibits greater topographic relief than anywhere else in the Tibetan plateau.
However, before the earthquake, geodetic and geologic surveys measured little
shortening across the range front, inspiring a vigorous debate about the process 
by which the topography of the mountain belt is produced and maintained. Two
endmember models have been proposed: (1) brittle crustal thickening, in which
thrust faults with large amounts of slip that are rooted in the lithosphere cause
uplift, and (2) crustal flow, in which low-viscosity material in the lower crust 
extrudes outward from the Tibetan plateau and inflates the crust north and east
of the Himalayas. Here we use balanced geologic cross-sections to show that
crustal shortening, structural relief, and topography are strongly correlated in 
the range front. This suggests that crustal shortening is a primary driver for
uplift and topography of the Longmen Shan on the flanks of the plateau. The 2008 
Wenchuan (M = 7.9) earthquake, which ruptured a large thrust fault along the
range front causing tens of thousands of fatalities and widespread damage, is an 
active manifestation of this shortening process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07837 
PMID: 19279635 


725. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):190-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07853.

Battery materials for ultrafast charging and discharging.

Kang B(1), Ceder G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

The storage of electrical energy at high charge and discharge rate is an
important technology in today's society, and can enable hybrid and plug-in hybrid
electric vehicles and provide back-up for wind and solar energy. It is typically 
believed that in electrochemical systems very high power rates can only be
achieved with supercapacitors, which trade high power for low energy density as
they only store energy by surface adsorption reactions of charged species on an
electrode material. Here we show that batteries which obtain high energy density 
by storing charge in the bulk of a material can also achieve ultrahigh discharge 
rates, comparable to those of supercapacitors. We realize this in LiFePO(4) (ref.
6), a material with high lithium bulk mobility, by creating a fast ion-conducting
surface phase through controlled off-stoichiometry. A rate capability equivalent 
to full battery discharge in 10-20 s can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07853 
PMID: 19279634 


726. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):186-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07827.

Direct observation of a pressure-induced metal-to-semiconductor transition in
lithium.

Matsuoka T(1), Shimizu K.

Author information: 
(1)KYOKUGEN, Center for Quantum Science and Technology under Extreme Conditions, 
Osaka University, 1-3 Machikaneyama, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan.
matsuoka@djebel.mp.es.osaka-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):158-9.

Lithium, the lightest metal, has long been considered to have a 'simple'
electronic structure that can be well explained within the nearly-free-electron
model. But lithium does not stay 'simple' under compression: rather than becoming
more free-electron-like as pressure is increased, first-principles calculations
suggest that it transforms into a semi-metal or semiconductor. Experimentally, it
has been shown that dense lithium adopts low-symmetry structures; there is also
evidence that its resistivity increases with pressure. However, the electronic
transport properties of lithium have so far not been directly monitored as a
function of increasing static pressure. Here we report electrical resistance
measurements on lithium in a diamond anvil cell up to pressures of 105 GPa, which
reveal a significant increase in electrical resistivity and a change in its
temperature dependence near 80 GPa. Our data thus provide unambiguous
experimental evidence for a pressure-induced metal-to-semiconductor transition in
a 'simple' metallic element.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07827 
PMID: 19279633 


727. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):182-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07786.

Transparent dense sodium.

Ma Y(1), Eremets M, Oganov AR, Xie Y, Trojan I, Medvedev S, Lyakhov AO, Valle M, 
Prakapenka V.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Superhard Materials, Jilin University, Changchun
130012, China. mym@jlu.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):158-9.

Under pressure, metals exhibit increasingly shorter interatomic distances.
Intuitively, this response is expected to be accompanied by an increase in the
widths of the valence and conduction bands and hence a more pronounced
free-electron-like behaviour. But at the densities that can now be achieved
experimentally, compression can be so substantial that core electrons overlap.
This effect dramatically alters electronic properties from those typically
associated with simple free-electron metals such as lithium (Li; refs 1-3) and
sodium (Na; refs 4, 5), leading in turn to structurally complex phases and
superconductivity with a high critical temperature. But the most intriguing
prediction-that the seemingly simple metals Li (ref. 1) and Na (ref. 4) will
transform under pressure into insulating states, owing to pairing of alkali
atoms-has yet to be experimentally confirmed. Here we report experimental
observations of a pressure-induced transformation of Na into an optically
transparent phase at approximately 200 GPa (corresponding to approximately
5.0-fold compression). Experimental and computational data identify the new phase
as a wide bandgap dielectric with a six-coordinated, highly distorted
double-hexagonal close-packed structure. We attribute the emergence of this dense
insulating state not to atom pairing, but to p-d hybridizations of valence
electrons and their repulsion by core electrons into the lattice interstices. We 
expect that such insulating states may also form in other elements and compounds 
when compression is sufficiently strong that atomic cores start to overlap
strongly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07786 
PMID: 19279632 


728. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):178-81. doi: 10.1038/nature07838.

Sub-cycle switch-on of ultrastrong light-matter interaction.

Günter G(1), Anappara AA, Hees J, Sell A, Biasiol G, Sorba L, De Liberato S,
Ciuti C, Tredicucci A, Leitenstorfer A, Huber R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Applied Photonics, University of
Konstanz, Universitätsstrasse 10, 78464 Konstanz, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):157-8.

Controlling the way light interacts with material excitations is at the heart of 
cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). In the strong-coupling regime, quantum
emitters in a microresonator absorb and spontaneously re-emit a photon many times
before dissipation becomes effective, giving rise to mixed light-matter
eigenmodes. Recent experiments in semiconductor microcavities reached a new limit
of ultrastrong coupling, where photon exchange occurs on timescales comparable to
the oscillation period of light. In this limit, ultrafast modulation of the
coupling strength has been suggested to lead to unconventional QED phenomena.
Although sophisticated light-matter coupling has been achieved in all three
spatial dimensions, control in the fourth dimension, time, is little developed.
Here we use a quantum-well waveguide structure to optically tune light-matter
interaction from weak to ultrastrong and turn on maximum coupling within less
than one cycle of light. In this regime, a class of extremely non-adiabatic
phenomena becomes observable. In particular, we directly monitor how a coherent
photon population converts to cavity polaritons during abrupt switching. This
system forms a promising laboratory in which to study novel sub-cycle QED effects
and represents an efficient room-temperature switching device operating at
unprecedented speed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07838 
PMID: 19279631 


729. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):165-71. doi: 10.1038/nature07810.

The neural basis of Drosophila gravity-sensing and hearing.

Kamikouchi A(1), Inagaki HK, Effertz T, Hendrich O, Fiala A, Göpfert MC, Ito K.

Author information: 
(1)Sensory Systems Laboratory, Institute of Zoology, University of Cologne, 50923
Cologne, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):156-7.

The neural substrates that the fruitfly Drosophila uses to sense smell, taste and
light share marked structural and functional similarities with ours, providing
attractive models to dissect sensory stimulus processing. Here we focus on two of
the remaining and less understood prime sensory modalities: graviception and
hearing. We show that the fly has implemented both sensory modalities into a
single system, Johnston's organ, which houses specialized clusters of
mechanosensory neurons, each of which monitors specific movements of the antenna.
Gravity- and sound-sensitive neurons differ in their response characteristics,
and only the latter express the candidate mechanotransducer channel NompC. The
two neural subsets also differ in their central projections, feeding into neural 
pathways that are reminiscent of the vestibular and auditory pathways in our
brain. By establishing the Drosophila counterparts of these sensory systems, our 
findings provide the basis for a systematic functional and molecular dissection
of how different mechanosensory stimuli are detected and processed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07810 
PMID: 19279630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):172-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07836. Epub 2009 Feb 22.

Membrane scission by the ESCRT-III complex.

Wollert T(1), Wunder C, Lippincott-Schwartz J, Hurley JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, US Department of Health and
Human Services, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):159-60.

The endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) system is essential 
for multivesicular body biogenesis, in which cargo sorting is coupled to the
invagination and scission of intralumenal vesicles. The ESCRTs are also needed
for budding of enveloped viruses including human immunodeficiency virus 1, and
for membrane abscission in cytokinesis. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, ESCRT-III
consists of Vps20, Snf7, Vps24 and Vps2 (also known as Did4), which assemble in
that order and require the ATPase Vps4 for their disassembly. In this study, the 
ESCRT-III-dependent budding and scission of intralumenal vesicles into giant
unilamellar vesicles was reconstituted and visualized by fluorescence microscopy.
Here we show that three subunits of ESCRT-III, Vps20, Snf7 and Vps24, are
sufficient to detach intralumenal vesicles. Vps2, the ESCRT-III subunit
responsible for recruiting Vps4, and the ATPase activity of Vps4 were required
for ESCRT-III recycling and supported additional rounds of budding. The minimum
set of ESCRT-III and Vps4 proteins capable of multiple cycles of vesicle
detachment corresponds to the ancient set of ESCRT proteins conserved from
archaea to animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07836 
PMCID: PMC2743992
PMID: 19234443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):223-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07672. Epub 2009 Feb 1.

Chromatin signature reveals over a thousand highly conserved large non-coding
RNAs in mammals.

Guttman M(1), Amit I, Garber M, French C, Lin MF, Feldser D, Huarte M, Zuk O,
Carey BW, Cassady JP, Cabili MN, Jaenisch R, Mikkelsen TS, Jacks T, Hacohen N,
Bernstein BE, Kellis M, Regev A, Rinn JL, Lander ES.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2009 Apr;27(4):346-7.

There is growing recognition that mammalian cells produce many thousands of large
intergenic transcripts. However, the functional significance of these transcripts
has been particularly controversial. Although there are some well-characterized
examples, most (>95%) show little evidence of evolutionary conservation and have 
been suggested to represent transcriptional noise. Here we report a new approach 
to identifying large non-coding RNAs using chromatin-state maps to discover
discrete transcriptional units intervening known protein-coding loci. Our
approach identified approximately 1,600 large multi-exonic RNAs across four mouse
cell types. In sharp contrast to previous collections, these large intervening
non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) show strong purifying selection in their genomic loci,
exonic sequences and promoter regions, with greater than 95% showing clear
evolutionary conservation. We also developed a functional genomics approach that 
assigns putative functions to each lincRNA, demonstrating a diverse range of
roles for lincRNAs in processes from embryonic stem cell pluripotency to cell
proliferation. We obtained independent functional validation for the predictions 
for over 100 lincRNAs, using cell-based assays. In particular, we demonstrate
that specific lincRNAs are transcriptionally regulated by key transcription
factors in these processes such as p53, NFkappaB, Sox2, Oct4 (also known as
Pou5f1) and Nanog. Together, these results define a unique collection of
functional lincRNAs that are highly conserved and implicated in diverse
biological processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07672 
PMCID: PMC2754849
PMID: 19182780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):215-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07660. Epub 2009 Feb 1.

A single regulatory gene is sufficient to alter bacterial host range.

Mandel MJ(1), Wollenberg MS, Stabb EV, Visick KL, Ruby EG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health, 1550 Linden Drive, Madison, Wisconsin
53706, USA. mmandel@wisc.edu

Microbial symbioses are essential for the normal development and growth of
animals. Often, symbionts must be acquired from the environment during each
generation, and identification of the relevant symbiotic partner against a myriad
of unwanted relationships is a formidable task. Although examples of this
specificity are well-documented, the genetic mechanisms governing it are poorly
characterized. Here we show that the two-component sensor kinase RscS is
necessary and sufficient for conferring efficient colonization of Euprymna
scolopes squid by bioluminescent Vibrio fischeri from the North Pacific Ocean. In
the squid symbiont V. fischeri ES114, RscS controls light-organ colonization by
inducing the Syp exopolysaccharide, a mediator of biofilm formation during
initial infection. A genome-level comparison revealed that rscS, although present
in squid symbionts, is absent from the fish symbiont V. fischeri MJ11. We found
that heterologous expression of RscS in strain MJ11 conferred the ability to
colonize E. scolopes in a manner comparable to that of natural squid isolates.
Furthermore, phylogenetic analyses support an important role for rscS in the
evolution of the squid symbiosis. Our results demonstrate that a regulatory gene 
can alter the host range of animal-associated bacteria. We show that, by encoding
a regulator and not an effector that interacts directly with the host, a single
gene can contribute to the evolution of host specificity by switching 'on'
pre-existing capabilities for interaction with animal tissue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07660 
PMCID: PMC2713604
PMID: 19182778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):211-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07657. Epub 2009 Jan 28.

Complete but curtailed T-cell response to very low-affinity antigen.

Zehn D(1), Lee SY, Bevan MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Washington, Box 357370, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

After an infection, T cells that carry the CD8 marker are activated and undergo a
characteristic kinetic sequence of rapid expansion, subsequent contraction and
formation of memory cells. The pool of naive T-cell clones is diverse and
contains cells bearing T-cell antigen receptors (TCRs) that differ in their
affinity for the same antigen. How these differences in affinity affect the
function and the response kinetics of individual T-cell clones was previously
unknown. Here we show that during the in vivo response to microbial infection,
even very weak TCR-ligand interactions are sufficient to activate naive T cells, 
induce rapid initial proliferation and generate effector and memory cells. The
strength of the TCR-ligand interaction critically affects when expansion stops,
when the cells exit lymphoid organs and when contraction begins; that is,
strongly stimulated T cells contract and exit lymphoid organs later than weakly
stimulated cells. Our data challenge the prevailing view that strong TCR ligation
is a prerequisite for CD8(+) T-cell activation. Instead, very weak interactions
are sufficient for activation, but strong TCR ligation is required to sustain
T-cell expansion. We propose that in response to microbial challenge, T-cell
clones with a broad range of avidities for foreign ligands are initially
recruited, and that the pool of T cells subsequently matures in affinity owing to
the more prolonged expansion of high-affinity T-cell clones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07657 
PMCID: PMC2735344
PMID: 19182777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):233-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07642. Epub 2009 Jan 25.

Coenzyme recognition and gene regulation by a flavin mononucleotide riboswitch.

Serganov A(1), Huang L, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA. serganoa@mskcc.org

The biosynthesis of several protein cofactors is subject to feedback regulation
by riboswitches. Flavin mononucleotide (FMN)-specific riboswitches, also known as
RFN elements, direct expression of bacterial genes involved in the biosynthesis
and transport of riboflavin (vitamin B(2)) and related compounds. Here we present
the crystal structures of the Fusobacterium nucleatum riboswitch bound to FMN,
riboflavin and antibiotic roseoflavin. The FMN riboswitch structure, centred on
an FMN-bound six-stem junction, does not fold by collinear stacking of adjacent
helices, typical for folding of large RNAs. Rather, it adopts a butterfly-like
scaffold, stapled together by opposingly directed but nearly identically folded
peripheral domains. FMN is positioned asymmetrically within the junctional site
and is specifically bound to RNA through interactions with the isoalloxazine ring
chromophore and direct and Mg(2+)-mediated contacts with the phosphate moiety.
Our structural data, complemented by binding and footprinting experiments, imply 
a largely pre-folded tertiary RNA architecture and FMN recognition mediated by
conformational transitions within the junctional binding pocket. The inherent
plasticity of the FMN-binding pocket and the availability of large openings make 
the riboswitch an attractive target for structure-based design of FMN-like
antimicrobial compounds. Our studies also explain the effects of spontaneous and 
antibiotic-induced deregulatory mutations and provided molecular insights into
FMN-based control of gene expression in normal and riboflavin-overproducing
bacterial strains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07642 
PMCID: PMC3726715
PMID: 19169240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):219-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07652. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

Cdc14 inhibits transcription by RNA polymerase I during anaphase.

Clemente-Blanco A(1), Mayán-Santos M, Schneider DA, Machín F, Jarmuz A,
Tschochner H, Aragón L.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Cycle Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College, Du Cane
Road, London W12 0NN, UK.

Chromosome condensation and the global repression of gene transcription are
features of mitosis in most eukaryotes. The logic behind this phenomenon is that 
chromosome condensation prevents the activity of RNA polymerases. In budding
yeast, however, transcription was proposed to be continuous during mitosis. Here 
we show that Cdc14, a protein phosphatase required for nucleolar segregation and 
mitotic exit, inhibits transcription of yeast ribosomal genes (rDNA) during
anaphase. The phosphatase activity of Cdc14 is required for RNA polymerase I (Pol
I) inhibition in vitro and in vivo. Moreover Cdc14-dependent inhibition involves 
nucleolar exclusion of Pol I subunits. We demonstrate that transcription
inhibition is necessary for complete chromosome disjunction, because ribosomal
RNA (rRNA) transcripts block condensin binding to rDNA, and show that bypassing
the role of Cdc14 in nucleolar segregation requires in vivo degradation of
nascent transcripts. Our results show that transcription interferes with
chromosome condensation, not the reverse. We conclude that budding yeast, like
most eukaryotes, inhibit Pol I transcription before segregation as a prerequisite
for chromosome condensation and faithful genome separation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07652 
PMCID: PMC4445138
PMID: 19158678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07643. Epub 2009 Jan 14.

Ubiquitin-related modifier Urm1 acts as a sulphur carrier in thiolation of
eukaryotic transfer RNA.

Leidel S(1), Pedrioli PG, Bucher T, Brost R, Costanzo M, Schmidt A, Aebersold R, 
Boone C, Hofmann K, Peter M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, ETH Zurich, Schafmattstrasse 18, CH-8093 Zurich,
Switzerland.

Ubiquitin-like proteins (UBLs) can change protein function, localization or
turnover by covalent attachment to lysine residues. Although UBLs achieve this
conjugation through an intricate enzymatic cascade, their bacterial counterparts 
MoaD and ThiS function as sulphur carrier proteins. Here we show that Urm1p, the 
most ancient UBL, acts as a sulphur carrier in the process of eukaryotic transfer
RNA (tRNA) modification, providing a possible evolutionary link between UBL and
sulphur transfer. Moreover, we identify Uba4p, Ncs2p, Ncs6p and Yor251cp as
components of this conserved pathway. Using in vitro assays, we show that Ncs6p
binds to tRNA, whereas Uba4p first adenylates and then directly transfers sulphur
onto Urm1p. Finally, functional analysis reveals that the thiolation function of 
Urm1p is critical to regulate cellular responses to nutrient starvation and
oxidative stress conditions, most likely by increasing translation fidelity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07643 
PMID: 19145231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Nature. 2009 Mar 12;458(7235):206-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07662. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Enhancing SIV-specific immunity in vivo by PD-1 blockade.

Velu V(1), Titanji K, Zhu B, Husain S, Pladevega A, Lai L, Vanderford TH,
Chennareddi L, Silvestri G, Freeman GJ, Ahmed R, Amara RR.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30322, USA.

Comment in
    Immunotherapy. 2009 Jul;1(4):525-7.

Chronic immunodeficiency virus infections are characterized by dysfunctional
cellular and humoral antiviral immune responses. As such, immune modulatory
therapies that enhance and/or restore the function of virus-specific immunity may
protect from disease progression. Here we investigate the safety and immune
restoration potential of blockade of the co-inhibitory receptor programmed death 
1 (PD-1) during chronic simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in
macaques. We demonstrate that PD-1 blockade using an antibody to PD-1 is well
tolerated and results in rapid expansion of virus-specific CD8 T cells with
improved functional quality. This enhanced T-cell immunity was seen in the blood 
and also in the gut, a major reservoir of SIV infection. PD-1 blockade also
resulted in proliferation of memory B cells and increases in SIV
envelope-specific antibody. These improved immune responses were associated with 
significant reductions in plasma viral load and also prolonged the survival of
SIV-infected macaques. Blockade was effective during the early (week 10) as well 
as late ( approximately week 90) phases of chronic infection even under
conditions of severe lymphopenia. These results demonstrate enhancement of both
cellular and humoral immune responses during a pathogenic immunodeficiency virus 
infection by blocking a single inhibitory pathway and identify a novel
therapeutic approach for control of human immunodeficiency virus infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07662 
PMCID: PMC2753387
PMID: 19078956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07839.

High-resolution multi-dimensional NMR spectroscopy of proteins in human cells.

Inomata K(1), Ohno A, Tochio H, Isogai S, Tenno T, Nakase I, Takeuchi T, Futaki
S, Ito Y, Hiroaki H, Shirakawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto
University, Nishikyo-Ku, Kyoto 615-8510, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):37-8.

In-cell NMR is an isotope-aided multi-dimensional NMR technique that enables
observations of conformations and functions of proteins in living cells at the
atomic level. This method has been successfully applied to proteins overexpressed
in bacteria, providing information on protein-ligand interactions and
conformations. However, the application of in-cell NMR to eukaryotic cells has
been limited to Xenopus laevis oocytes. Wider application of the technique is
hampered by inefficient delivery of isotope-labelled proteins into eukaryote
somatic cells. Here we describe a method to obtain high-resolution
two-dimensional (2D) heteronuclear NMR spectra of proteins inside living human
cells. Proteins were delivered to the cytosol by the pyrenebutyrate-mediated
action of cell-penetrating peptides linked covalently to the proteins. The
proteins were subsequently released from cell-penetrating peptides by endogenous 
enzymatic activity or by autonomous reductive cleavage. The heteronuclear 2D
spectra of three different proteins inside human cells demonstrate the broad
application of this technique to studying interactions and protein processing.
The in-cell NMR spectra of FKBP12 (also known as FKBP1A) show the formation of
specific complexes between the protein and extracellularly administered
immunosuppressants, demonstrating the utility of this technique in drug screening
programs. Moreover, in-cell NMR spectroscopy demonstrates that ubiquitin has much
higher hydrogen exchange rates in the intracellular environment, possibly due to 
multiple interactions with endogenous proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07839 
PMID: 19262675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):102-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07814.

Protein structure determination in living cells by in-cell NMR spectroscopy.

Sakakibara D(1), Sasaki A, Ikeya T, Hamatsu J, Hanashima T, Mishima M, Yoshimasu 
M, Hayashi N, Mikawa T, Wälchli M, Smith BO, Shirakawa M, Güntert P, Ito Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Hachioji, Tokyo
192-0397, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):37-8.

Investigating proteins 'at work' in a living environment at atomic resolution is 
a major goal of molecular biology, which has not been achieved even though
methods for the three-dimensional (3D) structure determination of purified
proteins in single crystals or in solution are widely used. Recent developments
in NMR hardware and methodology have enabled the measurement of high-resolution
heteronuclear multi-dimensional NMR spectra of macromolecules in living cells
(in-cell NMR). Various intracellular events such as conformational changes,
dynamics and binding events have been investigated by this method. However, the
low sensitivity and the short lifetime of the samples have so far prevented the
acquisition of sufficient structural information to determine protein structures 
by in-cell NMR. Here we show the first, to our knowledge, 3D protein structure
calculated exclusively on the basis of information obtained in living cells. The 
structure of the putative heavy-metal binding protein TTHA1718 from Thermus
thermophilus HB8 overexpressed in Escherichia coli cells was solved by in-cell
NMR. Rapid measurement of the 3D NMR spectra by nonlinear sampling of the
indirectly acquired dimensions was used to overcome problems caused by the
instability and low sensitivity of living E. coli samples. Almost all of the
expected backbone NMR resonances and most of the side-chain NMR resonances were
observed and assigned, enabling high quality (0.96 ångström backbone root mean
squared deviation) structures to be calculated that are very similar to the in
vitro structure of TTHA1718 determined independently. The in-cell NMR approach
can thus provide accurate high-resolution structures of proteins in living
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07814 
PMID: 19262674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07773.

The rate of N-WASP exchange limits the extent of ARP2/3-complex-dependent
actin-based motility.

Weisswange I(1), Newsome TP, Schleich S, Way M.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Motility Laboratory, Cancer Research UK, London Research Institute, 44
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PX, UK.

Understanding cell motility will require detailed knowledge not only of the
localization of signalling networks regulating actin polymerization, but also of 
their dynamics. Unfortunately, many signalling networks are not amenable to such 
analysis, as they are frequently transient and dispersed. By contrast, the
signalling pathways used by pathogens undergoing actin-based motility are highly 
localized and operate in a constitutive fashion. Taking advantage of this, we
have analysed the dynamics of neuronal Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP),
WASP-interacting protein (WIP), GRB2 and NCK, which are required to stimulate
actin-related protein (ARP)2/3-complex-dependent actin-based motility of vaccinia
virus, using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching. Here we show that all
four proteins are rapidly exchanging, albeit at different rates, and that the
turnover of N-WASP depends on its ability to stimulate ARP2/3-complex-mediated
actin polymerization. Conversely, disruption of the interaction of N-WASP with
GRB2 and/or the barbed ends of actin filaments increases its exchange rate and
results in a faster rate of virus movement. We suggest that the exchange rate of 
N-WASP controls the rate of ARP2/3-complex-dependent actin-based motility by
regulating the extent of actin polymerization by antagonizing filament capping.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07773 
PMID: 19262673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07772.

Type II fatty acid synthesis is not a suitable antibiotic target for
Gram-positive pathogens.

Brinster S(1), Lamberet G, Staels B, Trieu-Cuot P, Gruss A, Poyart C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Cochin, Université Paris Descartes, CNRS (UMR 8104), Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):39-40.
    Nature. 2010 Jan 21;463(7279):E3; discussion E4.

Antimicrobial drugs targeting the reportedly essential type II fatty acid
synthesis (FASII) pathway have been recently acclaimed for their efficacy against
infections caused by multiresistant Gram-positive bacteria. Our findings show
that the strategy for antibiotic development based on FASII pathway targets is
fundamentally flawed by the fact that exogenous fatty acids fully bypass
inhibition of this pathway in both in vitro and in vivo conditions. We
demonstrate that major Gram-positive pathogens-such as streptococci, pneumococci,
enterococci and staphylococci-overcome drug-induced FASII pathway inhibition when
supplied with exogenous fatty acids, and human serum proves to be a highly
effective source of fatty acids. For opportunist pathogen Streptococcus
agalactiae, growth in serum leads to an overall decrease of FASII gene
expression. No antibiotic inhibitor could have a stronger effect than the
inactivation of the target gene, so we challenged the role of FASII using
deletion mutants. Our results unequivocally show that the FASII target enzymes
are dispensable in vivo during S. agalactiae infection. The results of this study
largely compromise the use of FASII-based antimicrobials for treating sepsis
caused by Gram-positive pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07772 
PMID: 19262672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):78-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07781.

Innate immune recognition of infected apoptotic cells directs T(H)17 cell
differentiation.

Torchinsky MB(1), Garaude J, Martin AP, Blander JM.

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Institute, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 
1425 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):44-5.

Adaptive immune responses rely on differentiation of CD4 T helper cells into
subsets with distinct effector functions best suited for host defence against the
invading pathogen. Interleukin (IL)-17-producing T helper cells (T(H)17) are a
recently identified subset, separate from the T helper type 1 (T(H)1) and T
helper type 2 (T(H)2) subsets. Synergy between the cytokines transforming growth 
factor-beta and IL-6 in vitro induces development of T(H)17 cells in mouse and
human systems, whereas IL-23 supports expansion of these cells. However, it is
not known which conditions in vivo would induce this combination of cytokines.
Furthermore, it is enigmatic that a combination of pro-inflammatory and
anti-inflammatory cytokines would be required to generate an effector T(H)17
response. Here we show that the relevant physiological stimulus triggering this
combination of cytokines is the recognition and phagocytosis of infected
apoptotic cells by dendritic cells. Phagocytosis of infected apoptotic cells
uniquely triggers the combination of IL-6 and transforming growth factor-beta
through recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns and
phosphatidylserine exposed on apoptotic cells, respectively. Conversely,
phagocytosis of apoptotic cells in the absence of microbial signals induces
differentiation of the closely related regulatory T cells, which are important
for controlling autoimmunity. Blocking apoptosis during infection of the mouse
intestinal epithelium with the rodent pathogen Citrobacter rodentium, which
models human infections with the attaching and effacing enteropathogenic and
enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli, impairs the characteristic T(H)17 response
in the lamina propria. Our results demonstrate that infected apoptotic cells are 
a critical component of the innate immune signals instructing T(H)17
differentiation, and point to pathogens particularly adept at triggering
apoptosis that might preferentially induce T(H)17-mediated immunity. Because
T(H)17 cells have been correlated with autoimmune diseases, investigation of the 
pathways of innate recognition of infected apoptotic cells might lead to improved
understanding of the causative defects in autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07781 
PMID: 19262671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):64-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07817.

Shallow fault-zone dilatancy recovery after the 2003 Bam earthquake in Iran.

Fielding EJ(1), Lundgren PR, Bürgmann R, Funning GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, 4800 Oak Grove 
Drive, Pasadena, California 91109, USA. Eric.J.Fielding@jpl.nasa.gov

Earthquakes radiate from slip on discrete faults, but also commonly involve
distributed deformation within a broader fault zone, especially near the surface.
Variations in rock strain during an earthquake are caused by heterogeneity in the
elastic stress before the earthquake, by variable material properties and
geometry of the fault zones, and by dynamic processes during the rupture. Stress 
changes due to the earthquake slip, both dynamic and static, have long been
thought to cause dilatancy in the fault zone that recovers after the earthquake. 
Decreases in the velocity of seismic waves passing through the fault zone due to 
coseismic dilatancy have been observed followed by postseismic seismic velocity
increases during healing. Dilatancy and its recovery have not previously been
observed geodetically. Here we use interferometric analysis of synthetic aperture
radar images to measure postseismic surface deformation after the 2003 Bam, Iran,
earthquake and show reversal of coseismic dilatancy in the shallow fault zone
that causes subsidence of the surface. This compaction of the fault zone is
directly above the patch of greatest coseismic slip at depth. The dilatancy and
compaction probably reflects distributed shear and damage to the material during 
the earthquake that heals afterwards. Coseismic and postseismic deformation
spread through a fault zone volume may resolve the paradox of shallow slip
deficits for some strike-slip fault ruptures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07817 
PMID: 19262670 


744. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):60-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07816.

Temperature-induced A-B intersite charge transfer in an A-site-ordered
LaCu(3)Fe(4)O(12) perovskite.

Long YW(1), Hayashi N, Saito T, Azuma M, Muranaka S, Shimakawa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011, Japan.
ywlong@msk.kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Changes of valence states in transition-metal oxides often cause significant
changes in their structural and physical properties. Chemical doping is the
conventional way of modulating these valence states. In ABO(3) perovskite and/or 
perovskite-like oxides, chemical doping at the A site can introduce holes or
electrons at the B site, giving rise to exotic physical properties like
high-transition-temperature superconductivity and colossal magnetoresistance.
When valence-variable transition metals at two different atomic sites are
involved simultaneously, we expect to be able to induce charge transfer-and,
hence, valence changes-by using a small external stimulus rather than by
introducing a doping element. Materials showing this type of charge transfer are 
very rare, however, and such externally induced valence changes have been
observed only under extreme conditions like high pressure. Here we report unusual
temperature-induced valence changes at the A and B sites in the A-site-ordered
double perovskite LaCu(3)Fe(4)O(12); the underlying intersite charge transfer is 
accompanied by considerable changes in the material's structural, magnetic and
transport properties. When cooled, the compound shows a first-order, reversible
transition at 393 K from LaCu(2+)(3)Fe(3.75+)(4)O(12) with Fe(3.75+) ions at the 
B site to LaCu(3+)(3)Fe(3+)(4)O(12) with rare Cu(3+) ions at the A site.
Intersite charge transfer between the A-site Cu and B-site Fe ions leads to
paramagnetism-to-antiferromagnetism and metal-to-insulator isostructural phase
transitions. What is more interesting in relation to technological applications
is that this above-room-temperature transition is associated with a large
negative thermal expansion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07816 
PMID: 19262669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):56-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07788.

Electronic acceleration of atomic motions and disordering in bismuth.

Sciaini G(1), Harb M, Kruglik SG, Payer T, Hebeisen CT, zu Heringdorf FJ,
Yamaguchi M, Horn-von Hoegen M, Ernstorfer R, Miller RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Optical Sciences and Departments of Chemistry and Physics,
University of Toronto, 80 St George Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3H6, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):42-3.

The development of X-ray and electron diffraction methods with ultrahigh time
resolution has made it possible to map directly, at the atomic level, structural 
changes in solids induced by laser excitation. This has resulted in unprecedented
insights into the lattice dynamics of solids undergoing phase transitions. In
aluminium, for example, femtosecond optical excitation hardly affects the
potential energy surface of the lattice; instead, melting of the material is
governed by the transfer of thermal energy between the excited electrons and the 
initially cold lattice. In semiconductors, in contrast, exciting approximately 10
per cent of the valence electrons results in non-thermal lattice collapse owing
to the antibonding character of the conduction band. These different material
responses raise the intriguing question of how Peierls-distorted systems such as 
bismuth will respond to strong excitations. The evolution of the atomic
configuration of bismuth upon excitation of its A(1g) lattice mode, which
involves damped oscillations of atoms along the direction of the Peierls
distortion of the crystal, has been probed, but the actual melting of the
material has not yet been investigated. Here we present a femtosecond electron
diffraction study of the structural changes in crystalline bismuth as it
undergoes laser-induced melting. We find that the dynamics of the phase
transition depend strongly on the excitation intensity, with melting occurring
within 190 fs (that is, within half a period of the unperturbed A(1g) lattice
mode) at the highest excitation. We attribute the surprising speed of the melting
process to laser-induced changes in the potential energy surface of the lattice, 
which result in strong acceleration of the atoms along the longitudinal direction
of the lattice and efficient coupling of this motion to an unstable transverse
vibrational mode. That is, the atomic motions in crystalline bismuth can be
electronically accelerated so that the solid-to-liquid phase transition occurs on
a sub-vibrational timescale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07788 
PMID: 19262668 


746. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):53-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07779.

A candidate sub-parsec supermassive binary black hole system.

Boroson TA(1), Lauer TR.

Author information: 
(1)National Optical Astronomy Observatory, Tucson, Arizona 85726, USA.
tyb@noao.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):40-1.
    Nature. 2010 Jan 7;463(7277):E1; discussion E2.

The role of mergers in producing galaxies, together with the finding that most
large galaxies harbour black holes in their nuclei, implies that binary
supermassive black hole systems should be common. Here we report that the quasar 
SDSS J153636.22+044127.0 is a plausible example of such a system. This quasar
shows two broad-line emission systems, separated in velocity by 3,500 km s(-1). A
third system of unresolved absorption lines has an intermediate velocity. These
characteristics are unique among known quasars. We interpret this object as a
binary system of two black holes, having masses of 10(7.3) and 10(8.9) solar
masses separated by approximately 0.1 parsec with an orbital period of
approximately 100 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07779 
PMID: 19262667 


747. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature07819.

Molecular basis of transport and regulation in the Na(+)/betaine symporter BetP.

Ressl S(1), Terwisscha van Scheltinga AC, Vonrhein C, Ott V, Ziegler C.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Biophysics, Department of Structural Biology, 60438
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Osmoregulated transporters sense intracellular osmotic pressure and respond to
hyperosmotic stress by accumulation of osmolytes to restore normal hydration
levels. Here we report the determination of the X-ray structure of a member of
the family of betaine/choline/carnitine transporters, the Na(+)-coupled symporter
BetP from Corynebacterium glutamicum, which is a highly effective osmoregulated
uptake system for glycine betaine. Glycine betaine is bound in a tryptophan box
occluded from both sides of the membrane with aromatic side chains lining the
transport pathway. BetP has the same overall fold as three unrelated
Na(+)-coupled symporters. Whereas these are crystallized in either the
outward-facing or the inward-facing conformation, the BetP structure reveals a
unique intermediate conformation in the Na(+)-coupled transport cycle. The
trimeric architecture of BetP and the break in three-fold symmetry by the
osmosensing C-terminal helices suggest a regulatory mechanism of Na(+)-coupled
osmolyte transport to counteract osmotic stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07819 
PMID: 19262666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):69-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07659.

Phytoplankton in the ocean use non-phosphorus lipids in response to phosphorus
scarcity.

Van Mooy BA(1), Fredricks HF, Pedler BE, Dyhrman ST, Karl DM, Koblízek M, Lomas
MW, Mincer TJ, Moore LR, Moutin T, Rappé MS, Webb EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA. bvanmooy@whoi.edu

Phosphorus is an obligate requirement for the growth of all organisms; major
biochemical reservoirs of phosphorus in marine plankton include nucleic acids and
phospholipids. However, eukaryotic phytoplankton and cyanobacteria (that is,
'phytoplankton' collectively) have the ability to decrease their cellular
phosphorus content when phosphorus in their environment is scarce. The
biochemical mechanisms that allow phytoplankton to limit their phosphorus demand 
and still maintain growth are largely unknown. Here we show that phytoplankton,
in regions of oligotrophic ocean where phosphate is scarce, reduce their cellular
phosphorus requirements by substituting non-phosphorus membrane lipids for
phospholipids. In the Sargasso Sea, where phosphate concentrations were less than
10 nmol l-1, we found that only 1.3 +/- 0.6% of phosphate uptake was used for
phospholipid synthesis; in contrast, in the South Pacific subtropical gyre, where
phosphate was greater than 100 nmol l-1, plankton used 17 6% (ref. 6).
Examination of the planktonic membrane lipids at these two locations showed that 
classes of sulphur- and nitrogen-containing membrane lipids, which are devoid of 
phosphorus, were more abundant in the Sargasso Sea than in the South Pacific.
Furthermore, these non-phosphorus, 'substitute lipids' were dominant in
phosphorus-limited cultures of all of the phytoplankton species we examined. In
contrast, the marine heterotrophic bacteria we examined contained no substitute
lipids and only phospholipids. Thus heterotrophic bacteria, which compete with
phytoplankton for nutrients in oligotrophic regions like the Sargasso Sea, appear
to have a biochemical phosphorus requirement that phytoplankton avoid by using
substitute lipids. Our results suggest that phospholipid substitutions are
fundamental biochemical mechanisms that allow phytoplankton to maintain growth in
the face of phosphorus limitation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07659 
PMID: 19182781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature07638. Epub 2009 Jan 11.

Transcriptome sequencing to detect gene fusions in cancer.

Maher CA(1), Kumar-Sinha C, Cao X, Kalyana-Sundaram S, Han B, Jing X, Sam L,
Barrette T, Palanisamy N, Chinnaiyan AM.

Author information: 
(1)Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, Ann Arbor, USA.

Recurrent gene fusions, typically associated with haematological malignancies and
rare bone and soft-tissue tumours, have recently been described in common solid
tumours. Here we use an integrative analysis of high-throughput long- and
short-read transcriptome sequencing of cancer cells to discover novel gene
fusions. As a proof of concept, we successfully used integrative transcriptome
sequencing to 're-discover' the BCR-ABL1 (ref. 10) gene fusion in a chronic
myelogenous leukaemia cell line and the TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion in a prostate
cancer cell line and tissues. Additionally, we nominated, and experimentally
validated, novel gene fusions resulting in chimaeric transcripts in cancer cell
lines and tumours. Taken together, this study establishes a robust pipeline for
the discovery of novel gene chimaeras using high-throughput sequencing, opening
up an important class of cancer-related mutations for comprehensive
characterization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07638 
PMCID: PMC2725402
PMID: 19136943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):92-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07613. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Casein kinase 1alpha governs antigen-receptor-induced NF-kappaB activation and
human lymphoma cell survival.

Bidère N(1), Ngo VN, Lee J, Collins C, Zheng L, Wan F, Davis RE, Lenz G, Anderson
DE, Arnoult D, Vazquez A, Sakai K, Zhang J, Meng Z, Veenstra TD, Staudt LM,
Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Development Section, Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

The transcription factor NF-kappaB is required for lymphocyte activation and
proliferation as well as the survival of certain lymphoma types. Antigen receptor
stimulation assembles an NF-kappaB activating platform containing the scaffold
protein CARMA1 (also called CARD11), the adaptor BCL10 and the paracaspase MALT1 
(the CBM complex), linked to the inhibitor of NF-kappaB kinase complex, but
signal transduction is not fully understood. We conducted parallel screens
involving a mass spectrometry analysis of CARMA1 binding partners and an RNA
interference screen for growth inhibition of the CBM-dependent 'activated
B-cell-like' (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Here we
report that both screens identified casein kinase 1alpha (CK1alpha) as a
bifunctional regulator of NF-kappaB. CK1alpha dynamically associates with the CBM
complex on T-cell-receptor (TCR) engagement to participate in cytokine production
and lymphocyte proliferation. However, CK1alpha kinase activity has a contrasting
role by subsequently promoting the phosphorylation and inactivation of CARMA1.
CK1alpha has thus a dual 'gating' function which first promotes and then
terminates receptor-induced NF-kappaB. ABC DLBCL cells required CK1alpha for
constitutive NF-kappaB activity, indicating that CK1alpha functions as a
conditionally essential malignancy gene-a member of a new class of potential
cancer therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07613 
PMCID: PMC2688735
PMID: 19118383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07615. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

Sleep and sensorimotor integration during early vocal learning in a songbird.

Shank SS(1), Margoliash D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Behavioural studies widely implicate sleep in memory consolidation in the
learning of a broad range of behaviours. During sleep, brain regions are
reactivated, and specific patterns of neural activity are replayed, consistent
with patterns observed in previous waking behaviour. Birdsong learning is a
paradigmatic model system for skill learning. Song development in juvenile zebra 
finches (Taeniopygia guttata) is characterized by sleep-dependent circadian
fluctuations in singing behaviour, with immediate post-sleep deterioration in
song structure followed by recovery later in the day. In sleeping adult birds,
spontaneous bursting activity of forebrain premotor neurons in the robust nucleus
of the arcopallium (RA) carries information about daytime singing. Here we show
that, in juvenile zebra finches, playback during the day of an adult 'tutor' song
induced profound and tutor-song-specific changes in bursting activity of RA
neurons during the following night of sleep. The night-time neuronal changes
preceded tutor-song-induced changes in singing, first observed the following day.
Interruption of auditory feedback greatly reduced sleep bursting and prevented
the tutor-song-specific neuronal remodelling. Thus, night-time neuronal activity 
is shaped by the interaction of the song model (sensory template) and auditory
feedback, with changes in night-time activity preceding the onset of practice
associated with vocal learning. We hypothesize that night-time bursting induces
adaptive changes in premotor networks during sleep as part of vocal learning. By 
this hypothesis, adaptive changes driven by replay of sensory information at
night and by evaluation of sensory feedback during the day interact to produce
the complex circadian patterns seen early in vocal development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07615 
PMCID: PMC2651989
PMID: 19079238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07761.

Cellular prion protein mediates impairment of synaptic plasticity by amyloid-beta
oligomers.

Laurén J(1), Gimbel DA, Nygaard HB, Gilbert JW, Strittmatter SM.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration and Repair Program, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 12;466(7308):E3-4; discussion E4-5.
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1090-1.

A pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease is an accumulation of insoluble
plaque containing the amyloid-beta peptide of 40-42 amino acid residues.
Prefibrillar, soluble oligomers of amyloid-beta have been recognized to be early 
and key intermediates in Alzheimer's-disease-related synaptic dysfunction. At
nanomolar concentrations, soluble amyloid-beta oligomers block hippocampal
long-term potentiation, cause dendritic spine retraction from pyramidal cells and
impair rodent spatial memory. Soluble amyloid-beta oligomers have been prepared
from chemical syntheses, transfected cell culture supernatants, transgenic mouse 
brain and human Alzheimer's disease brain. Together, these data imply a
high-affinity cell-surface receptor for soluble amyloid-beta oligomers on
neurons-one that is central to the pathophysiological process in Alzheimer's
disease. Here we identify the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) as an
amyloid-beta-oligomer receptor by expression cloning. Amyloid-beta oligomers bind
with nanomolar affinity to PrP(C), but the interaction does not require the
infectious PrP(Sc) conformation. Synaptic responsiveness in hippocampal slices
from young adult PrP null mice is normal, but the amyloid-beta oligomer blockade 
of long-term potentiation is absent. Anti-PrP antibodies prevent
amyloid-beta-oligomer binding to PrP(C) and rescue synaptic plasticity in
hippocampal slices from oligomeric amyloid-beta. Thus, PrP(C) is a mediator of
amyloid-beta-oligomer-induced synaptic dysfunction, and PrP(C)-specific
pharmaceuticals may have therapeutic potential for Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07761 
PMCID: PMC2748841
PMID: 19242475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1124-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07732.

Devonian arthrodire embryos and the origin of internal fertilization in
vertebrates.

Long JA(1), Trinajstic K, Johanson Z.

Author information: 
(1)Museum Victoria, PO Box 666, Melbourne 3001, Victoria, Australia.
jlong@museum.vic.gov.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1094-5.

Evidence of reproductive biology is extremely rare in the fossil record. Recently
the first known embryos were discovered within the Placodermi, an extinct class
of armoured fish, indicating a viviparous mode of reproduction in a vertebrate
group outside the crown-group Gnathostomata (Chondrichthyes and Osteichthyes).
These embryos were found in ptyctodontids, a small group of placoderms
phylogenetically basal to the largest group, the Arthrodira. Here we report the
discovery of embryos in the Arthrodira inside specimens of Incisoscutum ritchiei 
from the Upper Devonian Gogo Formation of Western Australia (approximately 380
million years ago), providing the first evidence, to our knowledge, for
reproduction using internal fertilization in this diverse group. We show that
Incisoscutum and some phyllolepid arthrodires possessed pelvic girdles with long 
basipterygia that articulated distally with an additional cartilaginous element
or series, as in chondrichthyans, indicating that the pelvic fin was used in
copulation. As homology between similar pelvic girdle skeletal structures in
ptyctodontids, arthrodires and chondrichthyans is difficult to reconcile in the
light of current phylogenies of lower gnathostomes, we explain these similarities
as being most likely due to convergence (homoplasy). These new finds confirm that
reproduction by internal fertilization and viviparity was much more widespread in
the earliest gnathostomes than had been previously appreciated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07732 
PMID: 19242474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1120-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07787.

Giant aeolian dune size determined by the average depth of the atmospheric
boundary layer.

Andreotti B(1), Fourrière A, Ould-Kaddour F, Murray B, Claudin P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physique et Mécanique des Milieux Hétérogènes (PMMH UMR 7636
CNRS-ESPCI-P6-P7), 10 rue Vauquelin, 75005 Paris, France.

Depending on the wind regime, sand dunes exhibit linear, crescent-shaped or
star-like forms resulting from the interaction between dune morphology and sand
transport. Small-scale dunes form by destabilization of the sand bed with a
wavelength (a few tens of metres) determined by the sand transport saturation
length. The mechanisms controlling the formation of giant dunes, and in
particular accounting for their typical time and length scales, have remained
unknown. Using a combination of field measurements and aerodynamic calculations, 
we show here that the growth of aeolian giant dunes, ascribed to the nonlinear
interaction between small-scale superimposed dunes, is limited by the confinement
of the flow within the atmospheric boundary layer. Aeolian giant dunes and river 
dunes form by similar processes, with the thermal inversion layer that caps the
convective boundary layer in the atmosphere acting analogously to the water
surface in rivers. In both cases, the bed topography excites surface waves on the
interface that in turn modify the near-bed flow velocity. This mechanism is a
stabilizing process that prevents the scale of the pattern from coarsening beyond
the resonant condition. Our results can explain the mean spacing of aeolian giant
dunes ranging from 300 m in coastal terrestrial deserts to 3.5 km. We propose
that our findings could serve as a starting point for the modelling of long-term 
evolution of desert landscapes under specific wind regimes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07787 
PMID: 19242473 


755. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1116-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07748.

Friction laws at the nanoscale.

Mo Y(1), Turner KT, Szlufarska I.

Author information: 
(1)Materials Science Program, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, 
USA.

Macroscopic laws of friction do not generally apply to nanoscale contacts.
Although continuum mechanics models have been predicted to break down at the
nanoscale, they continue to be applied for lack of a better theory. An
understanding of how friction force depends on applied load and contact area at
these scales is essential for the design of miniaturized devices with optimal
mechanical performance. Here we use large-scale molecular dynamics simulations
with realistic force fields to establish friction laws in dry nanoscale contacts.
We show that friction force depends linearly on the number of atoms that
chemically interact across the contact. By defining the contact area as being
proportional to this number of interacting atoms, we show that the
macroscopically observed linear relationship between friction force and contact
area can be extended to the nanoscale. Our model predicts that as the adhesion
between the contacting surfaces is reduced, a transition takes place from
nonlinear to linear dependence of friction force on load. This transition is
consistent with the results of several nanoscale friction experiments. We
demonstrate that the breakdown of continuum mechanics can be understood as a
result of the rough (multi-asperity) nature of the contact, and show that
roughness theories of friction can be applied at the nanoscale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07748 
PMID: 19242472 


756. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07711.

Large positive magnetoresistive effect in silicon induced by the space-charge
effect.

Delmo MP(1), Yamamoto S, Kasai S, Ono T, Kobayashi K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji 611-0011, Japan.

Recent discoveries of large magnetoresistance in non-magnetic semiconductors have
gained much attention because the size of the effect is comparable to, or even
larger than, that of magnetoresistance in magnetic systems. Conventional
magnetoresistance in doped semiconductors is straightforwardly explained as the
effect of the Lorentz force on the carrier motion, but the reported unusually
large effects imply that the underlying mechanisms have not yet been fully
explored. Here we report that a simple device, based on a lightly doped silicon
substrate between two metallic contacts, shows a large positive magnetoresistance
of more than 1,000 per cent at room temperature (300 K) and 10,000 per cent at 25
K, for magnetic fields between 0 and 3 T. A high electric field is applied to the
device, so that conduction is space-charge limited. For substrates with a charge 
carrier density below approximately 10(13) cm(-3), the magnetoresistance exhibits
a linear dependence on the magnetic field between 3 and 9 T. We propose that the 
observed large magnetoresistance can be explained by quasi-neutrality breaking of
the space-charge effect, where insufficient charge is present to compensate the
electrons injected into the device. This introduces an electric field
inhomogeneity, analogous to the situation in other semiconductors in which a
large, non-saturating magnetoresistance was observed. In this regime, the motions
of electrons become correlated, and thus become dependent on magnetic field.
Although large positive magnetoresistance at room temperature has been achieved
in metal-semiconductor hybrid devices, we have now realized it in a simpler
structure and in a way different from other known magnetoresistive effects. It
could be used to develop new magnetic devices from silicon, which may further
advance silicon technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07711 
PMID: 19242471 


757. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1109-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07778.

A record of planet migration in the main asteroid belt.

Minton DA(1), Malhotra R.

Author information: 
(1)Lunar and Planetary Laboratory, University of Arizona, 1629 East University
Boulevard, Tucson, Arizona 85716, USA. daminton@lpl.arizona.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1091-3.

The main asteroid belt lies between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, but the
region is not uniformly filled with asteroids. There are gaps, known as the
Kirkwood gaps, in distinct locations that are associated with orbital resonances 
with the giant planets; asteroids placed in these locations will follow chaotic
orbits and be removed. Here we show that the observed distribution of main belt
asteroids does not fill uniformly even those regions that are dynamically stable 
over the age of the Solar System. We find a pattern of excess depletion of
asteroids, particularly just outward of the Kirkwood gaps associated with the
5:2, the 7:3 and the 2:1 Jovian resonances. These features are not accounted for 
by planetary perturbations in the current structure of the Solar System, but are 
consistent with dynamical ejection of asteroids by the sweeping of gravitational 
resonances during the migration of Jupiter and Saturn approximately 4 Gyr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07778 
PMID: 19242470 


758. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1103-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07765.

A mechanosensitive transcriptional mechanism that controls angiogenesis.

Mammoto A(1), Connor KM, Mammoto T, Yung CW, Huh D, Aderman CM, Mostoslavsky G,
Smith LE, Ingber DE.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology Program, Department of Pathology & Surgery, Children's
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Angiogenesis is controlled by physical interactions between cells and
extracellular matrix as well as soluble angiogenic factors, such as VEGF.
However, the mechanism by which mechanical signals integrate with other
microenvironmental cues to regulate neovascularization remains unknown. Here we
show that the Rho inhibitor, p190RhoGAP (also known as GRLF1), controls capillary
network formation in vitro in human microvascular endothelial cells and retinal
angiogenesis in vivo by modulating the balance of activities between two
antagonistic transcription factors, TFII-I (also known as GTF2I) and GATA2, that 
govern gene expression of the VEGF receptor VEGFR2 (also known as KDR). Moreover,
this new angiogenesis signalling pathway is sensitive to extracellular matrix
elasticity as well as soluble VEGF. This is, to our knowledge, the first known
functional cross-antagonism between transcription factors that controls tissue
morphogenesis, and that responds to both mechanical and chemical cues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07765 
PMCID: PMC2708674
PMID: 19242469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1097-102. doi: 10.1038/nature07770.

Interhemispheric Atlantic seesaw response during the last deglaciation.

Barker S(1), Diz P, Vautravers MJ, Pike J, Knorr G, Hall IR, Broecker WS.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF10 3YE, UK. 
barkers3@cf.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1093-4.

The asynchronous relationship between millennial-scale temperature changes over
Greenland and Antarctica during the last glacial period has led to the notion of 
a bipolar seesaw which acts to redistribute heat depending on the state of
meridional overturning circulation within the Atlantic Ocean. Here we present new
records from the South Atlantic that show rapid changes during the last
deglaciation that were instantaneous (within dating uncertainty) and of opposite 
sign to those observed in the North Atlantic. Our results demonstrate a direct
link between the abrupt changes associated with variations in the Atlantic
meridional overturning circulation and the more gradual adjustments
characteristic of the Southern Ocean. These results emphasize the importance of
the Southern Ocean for the development and transmission of millennial-scale
climate variability and highlight its role in deglacial climate change and the
associated rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07770 
PMID: 19242468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):E5-6; discussion E7. doi: 10.1038/nature07784.

Is REST a regulator of pluripotency?

Buckley NJ(1), Johnson R, Sun YM, Stanton LW.

Author information: 
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Centre for the Cellular Basis 
of Behaviour, James Black Centre, 125 Coldharbour Lane, London SE5 9NU, UK.
noel.buckley@iop.kcl.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):223-7.

Establishment and maintenance of the pluripotent state of ESCs is a key issue in 
stem cell biology and regenerative medicine, and consequently identification of
transcription factors that regulate ESC pluripotency is an important goal. Singh 
et al. claim that the transcriptional repressor REST is such a regulator and that
a 50% reduction of REST in ESCs leads to activation of a specific microRNA,
miR-21, and that this subsequently results in loss of pluripotency markers and a 
reciprocal gain in some lineage-specific differentiation markers. In contrast, we
show that, in haplodeficient Rest(+/-) ESCs, we detected no change in
pluripotency markers, no precocious expression of differentiated neuronal markers
and no interaction of REST with miR-21. It is vital that identification of
factors that regulate pluripotency is based on robust, consistent data, and the
contrast in data reported here undermines the claim by Singh et al. that REST is 
such a regulator.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07784 
PMID: 19242418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):E4-5; discussion E7. doi: 10.1038/nature07783.

Is REST required for ESC pluripotency?

Jørgensen HF(1), Chen ZF, Merkenschlager M, Fisher AG.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Development Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College
School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital Campus, Du Cane Road, London, W12 0NN,
UK. helle.jorgensen@imperial.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2008 May 8;453(7192):223-7.

The DNA-binding protein REST (also called NRSF) is a transcriptional repressor
that targets many neuronal genes and is abundant in human and mouse pluripotent
embryonic stem cells (ESCs). In a recent Letter to Nature, Singh et al. suggested
that REST controls the self-renewal and pluripotency of ESCs, because they found 
that ESCs in which a single REST allele was disrupted (Fig. 1a, beta-geo-stop
insertion) had reduced alkaline phosphatase activity and expressed lower levels
of several pluripotency-associated genes. Here we show that partial or complete
loss of functional REST protein does not abrogate ESC potential as reflected by
marker gene expression. These data are consistent with earlier reports, and argue
that REST is not required for maintaining ESC pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07783 
PMID: 19242417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1150-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07597. Epub 2009 Jan 28.

Organ regeneration does not require a functional stem cell niche in plants.

Sena G(1), Wang X, Liu HY, Hofhuis H, Birnbaum KD.

Author information: 
(1)New York University, Department of Biology, Center for Genomics and Systems
Biology, Silver Building, 100 Washington Square East, New York, New York 10003,
USA.

Plants rely on the maintenance of stem cell niches at their apices for the
continuous growth of roots and shoots. However, although the developmental
plasticity of plant cells has been demonstrated, it is not known whether the stem
cell niche is required for organogenesis. Here we explore the capacity of a broad
range of differentiating cells to regenerate an organ without the activity of a
stem cell niche. Using a root-tip regeneration system in Arabidopsis thaliana to 
track the molecular and functional recovery of cell fates, we show that
re-specification of lost cell identities begins within hours of excision and that
the function of specialized cells is restored within one day. Critically,
regeneration proceeds in plants with mutations that fail to maintain the stem
cell niche. These results show that stem-cell-like properties that mediate
complete organ regeneration are dispersed in plant meristems and are not
restricted to niches, which nonetheless seem to be necessary for indeterminate
growth. This regenerative reprogramming of an entire organ without transition to 
a stereotypical stem cell environment has intriguing parallels to recent reports 
of induced transdifferentiation of specific cell types in the adult organs of
animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07597 
PMCID: PMC2649681
PMID: 19182776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1133-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07658. Epub 2009 Jan 18.

Intracortical circuits of pyramidal neurons reflect their long-range axonal
targets.

Brown SP(1), Hestrin S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine,
300 Pasteur Drive, Edwards Building, R314, Stanford, California 94305-5342, USA.

Cortical columns generate separate streams of information that are distributed to
numerous cortical and subcortical brain regions. We asked whether local
intracortical circuits reflect these different processing streams by testing
whether the intracortical connectivity among pyramidal neurons reflects their
long-range axonal targets. We recorded simultaneously from up to four
retrogradely labelled pyramidal neurons that projected to the superior
colliculus, the contralateral striatum or the contralateral cortex to assess
their synaptic connectivity. Here we show that the probability of synaptic
connection depends on the functional identities of both the presynaptic and
postsynaptic neurons. We first found that the frequency of monosynaptic
connections among corticostriatal pyramidal neurons is significantly higher than 
among corticocortical or corticotectal pyramidal neurons. We then show that the
probability of feed-forward connections from corticocortical neurons to
corticotectal neurons is approximately three- to fourfold higher than the
probability of monosynaptic connections among corticocortical or corticotectal
cells. Moreover, we found that the average axodendritic overlap of the
presynaptic and postsynaptic pyramidal neurons could not fully explain the
differences in connection probability that we observed. The selective synaptic
interactions we describe demonstrate that the organization of local networks of
pyramidal cells reflects the long-range targets of both the presynaptic and
postsynaptic neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07658 
PMCID: PMC2727746
PMID: 19151698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1142-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07709.

The subcellular organization of neocortical excitatory connections.

Petreanu L(1), Mao T, Sternson SM, Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147, USA.

Understanding cortical circuits will require mapping the connections between
specific populations of neurons, as well as determining the dendritic locations
where the synapses occur. The dendrites of individual cortical neurons overlap
with numerous types of local and long-range excitatory axons, but axodendritic
overlap is not always a good predictor of actual connection strength. Here we
developed an efficient channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2)-assisted method to map the
spatial distribution of synaptic inputs, defined by presynaptic ChR2 expression, 
within the dendritic arborizations of recorded neurons. We expressed ChR2 in two 
thalamic nuclei, the whisker motor cortex and local excitatory neurons and mapped
their synapses with pyramidal neurons in layers 3, 5A and 5B (L3, L5A and L5B) in
the mouse barrel cortex. Within the dendritic arborizations of L3 cells,
individual inputs impinged onto distinct single domains. These domains were
arrayed in an orderly, monotonic pattern along the apical axis: axons from more
central origins targeted progressively higher regions of the apical dendrites. In
L5 arborizations, different inputs targeted separate basal and apical domains.
Input to L3 and L5 dendrites in L1 was related to whisker movement and position, 
suggesting that these signals have a role in controlling the gain of their target
neurons. Our experiments reveal high specificity in the subcellular organization 
of excitatory circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07709 
PMCID: PMC2745650
PMID: 19151697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1137-41. doi: 10.1038/nature07663. Epub 2009 Jan
18.

Dendritic encoding of sensory stimuli controlled by deep cortical interneurons.

Murayama M(1), Pérez-Garci E, Nevian T, Bock T, Senn W, Larkum ME.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisches Institut, Universität Bern, Bühlplatz 5, CH-3012 Bern,
Switzerland.

The computational power of single neurons is greatly enhanced by active dendritic
conductances that have a large influence on their spike activity. In cortical
output neurons such as the large pyramidal cells of layer 5 (L5), activation of
apical dendritic calcium channels leads to plateau potentials that increase the
gain of the input/output function and switch the cell to burst-firing mode. The
apical dendrites are innervated by local excitatory and inhibitory inputs as well
as thalamic and corticocortical projections, which makes it a formidable task to 
predict how these inputs influence active dendritic properties in vivo. Here we
investigate activity in populations of L5 pyramidal dendrites of the
somatosensory cortex in awake and anaesthetized rats following sensory
stimulation using a new fibre-optic method for recording dendritic calcium
changes. We show that the strength of sensory stimulation is encoded in the
combined dendritic calcium response of a local population of L5 pyramidal cells
in a graded manner. The slope of the stimulus-response function was under the
control of a particular subset of inhibitory neurons activated by synaptic inputs
predominantly in L5. Recordings from single apical tuft dendrites in vitro showed
that activity in L5 pyramidal neurons disynaptically coupled via interneurons
directly blocks the initiation of dendritic calcium spikes in neighbouring
pyramidal neurons. The results constitute a functional description of a cortical 
microcircuit in awake animals that relies on the active properties of L5
pyramidal dendrites and their very high sensitivity to inhibition. The
microcircuit is organized so that local populations of apical dendrites can
adaptively encode bottom-up sensory stimuli linearly across their full dynamic
range.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07663 
PMID: 19151696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1154-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07612. Epub 2009 Jan 4.

Ca(2+)/calmodulin regulates salicylic-acid-mediated plant immunity.

Du L(1), Ali GS, Simons KA, Hou J, Yang T, Reddy AS, Poovaiah BW.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrated Biotechnology and Department of Horticulture, Washington
State University, Pullman, Washington 99164-6414, USA.

Intracellular calcium transients during plant-pathogen interactions are necessary
early events leading to local and systemic acquired resistance. Salicylic acid, a
critical messenger, is also required for both of these responses, but whether and
how salicylic acid level is regulated by Ca(2+) signalling during plant-pathogen 
interaction is unclear. Here we report a mechanism connecting Ca(2+) signal to
salicylic-acid-mediated immune response through calmodulin, AtSR1 (also known as 
CAMTA3), a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-binding transcription factor, and EDS1, an
established regulator of salicylic acid level. Constitutive disease resistance
and elevated levels of salicylic acid in loss-of-function alleles of Arabidopsis 
AtSR1 suggest that AtSR1 is a negative regulator of plant immunity. This was
confirmed by epistasis analysis with mutants of compromised salicylic acid
accumulation and disease resistance. We show that AtSR1 interacts with the
promoter of EDS1 and represses its expression. Furthermore,
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-binding to AtSR1 is required for suppression of plant defence, 
indicating a direct role for Ca(2+)/calmodulin in regulating the function of
AtSR1. These results reveal a previously unknown regulatory mechanism linking
Ca(2+) signalling to salicylic acid level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07612 
PMID: 19122675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1146-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07617.

Deficiency of a beta-arrestin-2 signal complex contributes to insulin resistance.

Luan B(1), Zhao J, Wu H, Duan B, Shu G, Wang X, Li D, Jia W, Kang J, Pei G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Cell Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell
Biology, and Graduate School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2009 Mar;19(3):275-6.

Insulin resistance, a hallmark of type 2 diabetes, is a defect of insulin in
stimulating insulin receptor signalling, which has become one of the most serious
public health threats. Upon stimulation by insulin, insulin receptor recruits and
phosphorylates insulin receptor substrate proteins, leading to activation of the 
phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K)-Akt pathway. Activated Akt
phosphorylates downstream kinases and transcription factors, thus mediating most 
of the metabolic actions of insulin. Beta-arrestins mediate biological functions 
of G-protein-coupled receptors by linking activated receptors with distinct sets 
of accessory and effecter proteins, thereby determining the specificity,
efficiency and capacity of signals. Here we show that in diabetic mouse models,
beta-arrestin-2 is severely downregulated. Knockdown of beta-arrestin-2
exacerbates insulin resistance, whereas administration of beta-arrestin-2
restores insulin sensitivity in mice. Further investigation reveals that insulin 
stimulates the formation of a new beta-arrestin-2 signal complex, in which
beta-arrestin-2 scaffolds Akt and Src to insulin receptor. Loss or dysfunction of
beta-arrestin-2 results in deficiency of this signal complex and disturbance of
insulin signalling in vivo, thereby contributing to the development of insulin
resistance and progression of type 2 diabetes. Our findings provide new insight
into the molecular pathogenesis of insulin resistance, and implicate new
preventive and therapeutic strategies against insulin resistance and type 2
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07617 
PMID: 19122674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1163-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07611. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase-tRNA(Pyl) structure reveals the molecular basis of
orthogonality.

Nozawa K(1), O'Donoghue P, Gundllapalli S, Araiso Y, Ishitani R, Umehara T, Söll 
D, Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Information, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, B34 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, 
Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 226-8501, Japan.

Pyrrolysine (Pyl), the 22nd natural amino acid, is genetically encoded by UAG and
inserted into proteins by the unique suppressor tRNA(Pyl) (ref. 1). The
Methanosarcinaceae produce Pyl and express Pyl-containing methyltransferases that
allow growth on methylamines. Homologous methyltransferases and the Pyl
biosynthetic and coding machinery are also found in two bacterial species. Pyl
coding is maintained by pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase (PylRS), which catalyses the
formation of Pyl-tRNA(Pyl) (refs 4, 5). Pyl is not a recent addition to the
genetic code. PylRS was already present in the last universal common ancestor; it
then persisted in organisms that utilize methylamines as energy sources. Recent
protein engineering efforts added non-canonical amino acids to the genetic code. 
This technology relies on the directed evolution of an 'orthogonal' tRNA
synthetase-tRNA pair in which an engineered aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase (aaRS)
specifically and exclusively acylates the orthogonal tRNA with a non-canonical
amino acid. For Pyl the natural evolutionary process developed such a system some
3 billion years ago. When transformed into Escherichia coli, Methanosarcina
barkeri PylRS and tRNA(Pyl) function as an orthogonal pair in vivo. Here we show 
that Desulfitobacterium hafniense PylRS-tRNA(Pyl) is an orthogonal pair in vitro 
and in vivo, and present the crystal structure of this orthogonal pair. The
ancient emergence of PylRS-tRNA(Pyl) allowed the evolution of unique structural
features in both the protein and the tRNA. These structural elements manifest an 
intricate, specialized aaRS-tRNA interaction surface that is highly distinct from
those observed in any other known aaRS-tRNA complex; it is this general property 
that underlies the molecular basis of orthogonality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07611 
PMCID: PMC2648862
PMID: 19118381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1159-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07596. Epub 2008 Dec
21.

Direct observation of the nanoscale dynamics of membrane lipids in a living cell.

Eggeling C(1), Ringemann C, Medda R, Schwarzmann G, Sandhoff K, Polyakova S,
Belov VN, Hein B, von Middendorff C, Schönle A, Hell SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nanobiophotonics, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany. ceggeli@gwdg.de

Cholesterol-mediated lipid interactions are thought to have a functional role in 
many membrane-associated processes such as signalling events. Although several
experiments indicate their existence, lipid nanodomains ('rafts') remain
controversial owing to the lack of suitable detection techniques in living cells.
The controversy is reflected in their putative size of 5-200 nm, spanning the
range between the extent of a protein complex and the resolution limit of optical
microscopy. Here we demonstrate the ability of stimulated emission depletion
(STED) far-field fluorescence nanoscopy to detect single diffusing (lipid)
molecules in nanosized areas in the plasma membrane of living cells. Tuning of
the probed area to spot sizes approximately 70-fold below the diffraction barrier
reveals that unlike phosphoglycerolipids, sphingolipids and
glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins are transiently ( approximately
10-20 ms) trapped in cholesterol-mediated molecular complexes dwelling within
<20-nm diameter areas. The non-invasive optical recording of molecular time
traces and fluctuation data in tunable nanoscale domains is a powerful new
approach to study the dynamics of biomolecules in living cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07596 
PMID: 19098897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1003-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07771.

Increasing carbon storage in intact African tropical forests.

Lewis SL(1), Lopez-Gonzalez G, Sonké B, Affum-Baffoe K, Baker TR, Ojo LO,
Phillips OL, Reitsma JM, White L, Comiskey JA, Djuikouo K MN, Ewango CE,
Feldpausch TR, Hamilton AC, Gloor M, Hart T, Hladik A, Lloyd J, Lovett JC, Makana
JR, Malhi Y, Mbago FM, Ndangalasi HJ, Peacock J, Peh KS, Sheil D, Sunderland T,
Swaine MD, Taplin J, Taylor D, Thomas SC, Votere R, Wöll H.

Author information: 
(1)Earth and Biosphere Institute, School of Geography, University of Leeds, Leeds
LS2 9JT, UK. s.l.lewis@leeds.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):969-70.

The response of terrestrial vegetation to a globally changing environment is
central to predictions of future levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide. The role
of tropical forests is critical because they are carbon-dense and highly
productive. Inventory plots across Amazonia show that old-growth forests have
increased in carbon storage over recent decades, but the response of one-third of
the world's tropical forests in Africa is largely unknown owing to an absence of 
spatially extensive observation networks. Here we report data from a ten-country 
network of long-term monitoring plots in African tropical forests. We find that
across 79 plots (163 ha) above-ground carbon storage in live trees increased by
0.63 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1) between 1968 and 2007 (95% confidence interval (CI),
0.22-0.94; mean interval, 1987-96). Extrapolation to unmeasured forest components
(live roots, small trees, necromass) and scaling to the continent implies a total
increase in carbon storage in African tropical forest trees of 0.34 Pg C yr(-1)
(CI, 0.15-0.43). These reported changes in carbon storage are similar to those
reported for Amazonian forests per unit area, providing evidence that increasing 
carbon storage in old-growth forests is a pan-tropical phenomenon. Indeed,
combining all standardized inventory data from this study and from tropical
America and Asia together yields a comparable figure of 0.49 Mg C ha(-1) yr(-1)
(n = 156; 562 ha; CI, 0.29-0.66; mean interval, 1987-97). This indicates a carbon
sink of 1.3 Pg C yr(-1) (CI, 0.8-1.6) across all tropical forests during recent
decades. Taxon-specific analyses of African inventory and other data suggest that
widespread changes in resource availability, such as increasing atmospheric
carbon dioxide concentrations, may be the cause of the increase in carbon stocks,
as some theory and models predict.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07771 
PMID: 19225523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):999-1002. doi: 10.1038/nature07766.

Magnetic assembly of colloidal superstructures with multipole symmetry.

Erb RM(1), Son HS, Samanta B, Rotello VM, Yellen BB.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science,
Center for Biologically Inspired Materials and Material Systems, Box 90300,
Hudson Hall, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):974.

The assembly of complex structures out of simple colloidal building blocks is of 
practical interest for building materials with unique optical properties (for
example photonic crystals and DNA biosensors) and is of fundamental importance in
improving our understanding of self-assembly processes occurring on molecular to 
macroscopic length scales. Here we demonstrate a self-assembly principle that is 
capable of organizing a diverse set of colloidal particles into highly
reproducible, rotationally symmetric arrangements. The structures are assembled
using the magnetostatic interaction between effectively diamagnetic and
paramagnetic particles within a magnetized ferrofluid. The resulting multipolar
geometries resemble electrostatic charge configurations such as axial quadrupoles
('Saturn rings'), axial octupoles ('flowers'), linear quadrupoles (poles) and
mixed multipole arrangements ('two tone'), which represent just a few examples of
the type of structure that can be built using this technique.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07766 
PMID: 19225522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):994-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07752.

Travelling-wave nuclear magnetic resonance.

Brunner DO(1), De Zanche N, Fröhlich J, Paska J, Pruessmann KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Engineering, University of Zürich and ETH Zürich,
Gloriastrasse 35, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):971-2.

Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is one of the most versatile experimental
methods in chemistry, physics and biology, providing insight into the structure
and dynamics of matter at the molecular scale. Its imaging variant-magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI)-is widely used to examine the anatomy, physiology and
metabolism of the human body. NMR signal detection is traditionally based on
Faraday induction in one or multiple radio-frequency resonators that are brought 
into close proximity with the sample. Alternative principles involving
structured-material flux guides, superconducting quantum interference devices,
atomic magnetometers, Hall probes or magnetoresistive elements have been
explored. However, a common feature of all NMR implementations until now is that 
they rely on close coupling between the detector and the object under
investigation. Here we show that NMR can also be excited and detected by
long-range interaction, relying on travelling radio-frequency waves sent and
received by an antenna. One benefit of this approach is more uniform coverage of 
samples that are larger than the wavelength of the NMR signal-an important
current issue in MRI of humans at very high magnetic fields. By allowing a
significant distance between the probe and the sample, travelling-wave
interaction also introduces new possibilities in the design of NMR experiments
and systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07752 
PMID: 19225521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):990-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07780.

Massive star formation within the Leo 'primordial' ring.

Thilker DA(1), Donovan J, Schiminovich D, Bianchi L, Boissier S, de Paz AG,
Madore BF, Martin DC, Seibert M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Astrophysical Sciences, The Johns Hopkins University, 3400 North
Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA. dthilker@pha.jhu.edu

Few intergalactic, plausibly primordial clouds of neutral atomic hydrogen (H(i)) 
have been found in the local Universe, suggesting that such structures have
either dispersed, become ionized or produced a stellar population on gigayear
timescales. The Leo ring, a massive (M(H(i)) approximately 1.8 x 10(9)M[symbol:
see text], M[symbol: see text] denoting the solar mass), 200-kpc-wide structure
orbiting the galaxies M105 and NGC 3384 with a 4-Gyr period, is a candidate
primordial cloud. Despite repeated atttempts, it has previously been seen only
from H i emission, suggesting the absence of a stellar population. Here we report
the detection of ultraviolet light from gaseous substructures of the Leo ring,
which we attribute to recent massive star formation. The ultraviolet colour of
the detected complexes is blue, implying the onset of a burst of star formation
or continuous star formation of moderate (approximately 10(8)-yr) duration.
Measured ultraviolet-visible photometry favours models with low metallicity (Z
approximately Z[symbol: see text]/50-Z[symbol: see text]/5, Z[symbol: see text]
denoting the solar metallicity), that is, a low proportion of elements heavier
than helium, although spectroscopic confirmation is needed. We speculate that the
complexes are dwarf galaxies observed during their formation, but distinguished
by their lack of a dark matter component. In this regard, they resemble tidal
dwarf galaxies, although without the enrichment preceding tidal stripping. If
structures like the Leo ring were common in the early Universe, they may have
produced a large, yet undetected, population of faint, metal-poor, halo-lacking
dwarf galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07780 
PMID: 19225520 


774. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):981-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07767.

APP binds DR6 to trigger axon pruning and neuron death via distinct caspases.

Nikolaev A(1), McLaughlin T, O'Leary DD, Tessier-Lavigne M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Research, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):970-1.

Naturally occurring axonal pruning and neuronal cell death help to sculpt
neuronal connections during development, but their mechanistic basis remains
poorly understood. Here we report that beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and
death receptor 6 (DR6, also known as TNFRSF21) activate a widespread
caspase-dependent self-destruction program. DR6 is broadly expressed by
developing neurons, and is required for normal cell body death and axonal pruning
both in vivo and after trophic-factor deprivation in vitro. Unlike neuronal cell 
body apoptosis, which requires caspase 3, we show that axonal degeneration
requires caspase 6, which is activated in a punctate pattern that parallels the
pattern of axonal fragmentation. DR6 is activated locally by an inactive surface 
ligand(s) that is released in an active form after trophic-factor deprivation,
and we identify APP as a DR6 ligand. Trophic-factor deprivation triggers the
shedding of surface APP in a beta-secretase (BACE)-dependent manner. Loss- and
gain-of-function studies support a model in which a cleaved amino-terminal
fragment of APP (N-APP) binds DR6 and triggers degeneration. Genetic support is
provided by a common neuromuscular junction phenotype in mutant mice. Our results
indicate that APP and DR6 are components of a neuronal self-destruction pathway, 
and suggest that an extracellular fragment of APP, acting via DR6 and caspase 6, 
contributes to Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07767 
PMCID: PMC2677572
PMID: 19225519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):977-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07749.

A hierarchical model for evolution of 23S ribosomal RNA.

Bokov K(1), Steinberg SV.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Biochimie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, H3C 3J7 (Québec), 
Canada.

The emergence of the ribosome constituted a pivotal step in the evolution of
life. This event happened nearly four billion years ago, and any traces of early 
stages of ribosome evolution are generally thought to have completely eroded
away. Surprisingly, a detailed analysis of the structure of the modern ribosome
reveals a concerted and modular scheme of its early evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07749 
PMID: 19225518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1038-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07747. Epub 2009 Jan
25.

Widespread bidirectional promoters are the major source of cryptic transcripts in
yeast.

Neil H(1), Malabat C, d'Aubenton-Carafa Y, Xu Z, Steinmetz LM, Jacquier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité de Génétique des Interactions Macromoléculaires, CNRS,
URA2171, 75015 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):974-5.

Pervasive and hidden transcription is widespread in eukaryotes, but its global
level, the mechanisms from which it originates and its functional significance
are unclear. Cryptic unstable transcripts (CUTs) were recently described as a
principal class of RNA polymerase II transcripts in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
These transcripts are targeted for degradation immediately after synthesis by the
action of the Nrd1-exosome-TRAMP complexes. Although CUT degradation mechanisms
have been analysed in detail, the genome-wide distribution at the nucleotide
resolution and the prevalence of CUTs are unknown. Here we report the first
high-resolution genomic map of CUTs in yeast, revealing a class of potentially
functional CUTs and the intrinsic bidirectional nature of eukaryotic promoters.
An RNA fraction highly enriched in CUTs was analysed by a 3' Long-SAGE (serial
analysis of gene expression) approach adapted to deep sequencing. The resulting
detailed genomic map of CUTs revealed that they derive from extremely widespread 
and very well defined transcription units and do not result from unspecific
transcriptional noise. Moreover, the transcription of CUTs predominantly arises
within nucleosome-free regions, most of which correspond to promoter regions of
bona fide genes. Some of the CUTs start upstream from messenger RNAs and overlap 
their 5' end. Our study of glycolysis genes, as well as recent results from the
literature, indicate that such concurrent transcription is potentially associated
with regulatory mechanisms. Our data reveal numerous new CUTs with such a
potential regulatory role. However, most of the identified CUTs corresponded to
transcripts divergent from the promoter regions of genes, indicating that they
represent by-products of divergent transcription occurring at many and possibly
most promoters. Eukaryotic promoter regions are thus intrinsically bidirectional,
a fundamental property that escaped previous analyses because in most cases
divergent transcription generates short-lived unstable transcripts present at
very low steady-state levels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07747 
PMID: 19169244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1033-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07728. Epub 2009 Jan 25.

Bidirectional promoters generate pervasive transcription in yeast.

Xu Z(1), Wei W, Gagneur J, Perocchi F, Clauder-Münster S, Camblong J, Guffanti E,
Stutz F, Huber W, Steinmetz LM.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):974-5.

Genome-wide pervasive transcription has been reported in many eukaryotic
organisms, revealing a highly interleaved transcriptome organization that
involves hundreds of previously unknown non-coding RNAs. These recently
identified transcripts either exist stably in cells (stable unannotated
transcripts, SUTs) or are rapidly degraded by the RNA surveillance pathway
(cryptic unstable transcripts, CUTs). One characteristic of pervasive
transcription is the extensive overlap of SUTs and CUTs with previously annotated
features, which prompts questions regarding how these transcripts are generated, 
and whether they exert function. Single-gene studies have shown that
transcription of SUTs and CUTs can be functional, through mechanisms involving
the generated RNAs or their generation itself. So far, a complete transcriptome
architecture including SUTs and CUTs has not been described in any organism.
Knowledge about the position and genome-wide arrangement of these transcripts
will be instrumental in understanding their function. Here we provide a
comprehensive analysis of these transcripts in the context of multiple
conditions, a mutant of the exosome machinery and different strain backgrounds of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We show that both SUTs and CUTs display distinct
patterns of distribution at specific locations. Most of the newly identified
transcripts initiate from nucleosome-free regions (NFRs) associated with the
promoters of other transcripts (mostly protein-coding genes), or from NFRs at the
3' ends of protein-coding genes. Likewise, about half of all coding transcripts
initiate from NFRs associated with promoters of other transcripts. These data
change our view of how a genome is transcribed, indicating that bidirectionality 
is an inherent feature of promoters. Such an arrangement of divergent and
overlapping transcripts may provide a mechanism for local spreading of regulatory
signals-that is, coupling the transcriptional regulation of neighbouring genes by
means of transcriptional interference or histone modification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07728 
PMCID: PMC2766638
PMID: 19169243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1028-32. doi: 10.1038/nature07759. Epub 2009 Jan
25.

Post-transcriptional processing generates a diversity of 5'-modified long and
short RNAs.

Affymetrix ENCODE Transcriptome Project; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory ENCODE
Transcriptome Project.

Collaborators: Fejes-Toth K, Sotirova V, Sachidanandam R, Assaf G, Hannon GJ,
Kapranov P, Foissac S, Willingham AT, Duttagupta R, Dumais E, Gingeras TR.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):974-5.

The transcriptomes of eukaryotic cells are incredibly complex. Individual
non-coding RNAs dwarf the number of protein-coding genes, and include classes
that are well understood as well as classes for which the nature, extent and
functional roles are obscure. Deep sequencing of small RNAs (<200 nucleotides)
from human HeLa and HepG2 cells revealed a remarkable breadth of species. These
arose both from within annotated genes and from unannotated intergenic regions.
Overall, small RNAs tended to align with CAGE (cap-analysis of gene expression)
tags, which mark the 5' ends of capped, long RNA transcripts. Many small RNAs,
including the previously described promoter-associated small RNAs, appeared to
possess cap structures. Members of an extensive class of both small RNAs and CAGE
tags were distributed across internal exons of annotated protein coding and
non-coding genes, sometimes crossing exon-exon junctions. Here we show that
processing of mature mRNAs through an as yet unknown mechanism may generate
complex populations of both long and short RNAs whose apparently capped 5' ends
coincide. Supplying synthetic promoter-associated small RNAs corresponding to the
c-MYC transcriptional start site reduced MYC messenger RNA abundance. The studies
presented here expand the catalogue of cellular small RNAs and demonstrate a
biological impact for at least one class of non-canonical small RNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07759 
PMCID: PMC2719882
PMID: 19169241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1015-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07604. Epub 2009 Jan 14.

Synaptic depression enables neuronal gain control.

Rothman JS(1), Cathala L, Steuber V, Silver RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College
London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

To act as computational devices, neurons must perform mathematical operations as 
they transform synaptic and modulatory input into output firing rate. Experiments
and theory indicate that neuronal firing typically represents the sum of synaptic
inputs, an additive operation, but multiplication of inputs is essential for many
computations. Multiplication by a constant produces a change in the slope, or
gain, of the input-output relationship, amplifying or scaling down the
sensitivity of the neuron to changes in its input. Such gain modulation occurs in
vivo, during contrast invariance of orientation tuning, attentional scaling,
translation-invariant object recognition, auditory processing and coordinate
transformations. Moreover, theoretical studies highlight the necessity of gain
modulation in several of these tasks. Although potential cellular mechanisms for 
gain modulation have been identified, they often rely on membrane noise and
require restrictive conditions to work. Because nonlinear components are used to 
scale signals in electronics, we examined whether synaptic nonlinearities are
involved in neuronal gain modulation. We used synaptic stimulation and the
dynamic-clamp technique to investigate gain modulation in granule cells in acute 
slices of rat cerebellum. Here we show that when excitation is mediated by
synapses with short-term depression (STD), neuronal gain is controlled by an
inhibitory conductance in a noise-independent manner, allowing driving and
modulatory inputs to be multiplied together. The nonlinearity introduced by STD
transforms inhibition-mediated additive shifts in the input-output relationship
into multiplicative gain changes. When granule cells were driven with bursts of
high-frequency mossy fibre input, as observed in vivo, larger inhibition-mediated
gain changes were observed, as expected with greater STD. Simulations of synaptic
integration in more complex neocortical neurons suggest that STD-based gain
modulation can also operate in neurons with large dendritic trees. Our results
establish that neurons receiving depressing excitatory inputs can act as powerful
multiplicative devices even when integration of postsynaptic conductances is
linear.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07604 
PMCID: PMC2689940
PMID: 19145233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1019-22. doi: 10.1038/nature07606. Epub 2008 Dec
31.

The Fas-FADD death domain complex structure unravels signalling by receptor
clustering.

Scott FL(1), Stec B, Pop C, Dobaczewska MK, Lee JJ, Monosov E, Robinson H,
Salvesen GS, Schwarzenbacher R, Riedl SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Apoptosis and Cell Death Research, The Burnham Institute for
Medical Research, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

The death inducing signalling complex (DISC) formed by Fas receptor, FADD
(Fas-associated death domain protein) and caspase 8 is a pivotal trigger of
apoptosis. The Fas-FADD DISC represents a receptor platform, which once assembled
initiates the induction of programmed cell death. A highly oligomeric network of 
homotypic protein interactions comprised of the death domains of Fas and FADD is 
at the centre of DISC formation. Thus, characterizing the mechanistic basis for
the Fas-FADD interaction is crucial for understanding DISC signalling but has
remained unclear largely because of a lack of structural data. We have
successfully formed and isolated the human Fas-FADD death domain complex and
report the 2.7 A crystal structure. The complex shows a tetrameric arrangement of
four FADD death domains bound to four Fas death domains. We show that an opening 
of the Fas death domain exposes the FADD binding site and simultaneously
generates a Fas-Fas bridge. The result is a regulatory Fas-FADD complex bridge
governed by weak protein-protein interactions revealing a model where the complex
itself functions as a mechanistic switch. This switch prevents accidental DISC
assembly, yet allows for highly processive DISC formation and clustering upon a
sufficient stimulus. In addition to depicting a previously unknown mode of death 
domain interactions, these results further uncover a mechanism for receptor
signalling solely by oligomerization and clustering events.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07606 
PMCID: PMC2661029
PMID: 19118384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1023-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07600. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

Artificial nanopores that mimic the transport selectivity of the nuclear pore
complex.

Jovanovic-Talisman T(1), Tetenbaum-Novatt J, McKenney AS, Zilman A, Peters R,
Rout MP, Chait BT.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Mass Spectrometry and Gaseous Ion Chemistry, The Rockefeller
University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) act as effective and robust gateways between the
nucleus and the cytoplasm, selecting for the passage of particular macromolecules
across the nuclear envelope. NPCs comprise an elaborate scaffold that defines a
approximately 30 nm diameter passageway connecting the nucleus and the cytoplasm.
This scaffold anchors proteins termed 'phenylalanine-glycine' (FG)-nucleoporins, 
the natively disordered domains of which line the passageway and extend into its 
lumen. Passive diffusion through this lined passageway is hindered in a
size-dependent manner. However, transport factors and their cargo-bound complexes
overcome this restriction by transient binding to the FG-nucleoporins. To test
whether a simple passageway and a lining of transport-factor-binding
FG-nucleoporins are sufficient for selective transport, we designed a
functionalized membrane that incorporates just these two elements. Here we
demonstrate that this membrane functions as a nanoselective filter, efficiently
passing transport factors and transport-factor-cargo complexes that specifically 
bind FG-nucleoporins, while significantly inhibiting the passage of proteins that
do not. This inhibition is greatly enhanced when transport factor is present.
Determinants of selectivity include the passageway diameter, the length of the
nanopore region coated with FG-nucleoporins, the binding strength to
FG-nucleoporins, and the antagonistic effect of transport factors on the passage 
of proteins that do not specifically bind FG-nucleoporins. We show that this
artificial system faithfully reproduces key features of trafficking through the
NPC, including transport-factor-mediated cargo import.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07600 
PMCID: PMC2764719
PMID: 19098896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1007-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07603. Epub 2008 Dec
21.

Nodal signalling is involved in left-right asymmetry in snails.

Grande C(1), Patel NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720-3200, USA.

Many animals display specific internal or external features with left-right
asymmetry. In vertebrates, the molecular pathway that leads to this asymmetry
uses the signalling molecule Nodal, a member of the transforming growth
factor-beta superfamily, which is expressed in the left lateral plate mesoderm,
and loss of nodal function produces a randomization of the left-right asymmetry
of visceral organs. Orthologues of nodal have also been described in other
deuterostomes, including ascidians and sea urchins, but no nodal orthologue has
been reported in the other two main clades of Bilateria: Ecdysozoa (including
flies and nematodes) and Lophotrochozoa (including snails and annelids). Here we 
report the first evidence for a nodal orthologue in a non-deuterostome group. We 
isolated nodal and Pitx (one of the targets of Nodal signalling) in two species
of snails and found that the side of the embryo that expresses nodal and Pitx is 
related to body chirality: both genes are expressed on the right side of the
embryo in the dextral (right-handed) species Lottia gigantea and on the left side
in the sinistral (left-handed) species Biomphalaria glabrata. We
pharmacologically inhibited the Nodal pathway and found that nodal acts upstream 
of Pitx, and that some treated animals developed with a loss of shell chirality. 
These results indicate that the involvement of the Nodal pathway in left-right
asymmetry might have been an ancestral feature of the Bilateria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07603 
PMCID: PMC2661027
PMID: 19098895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2009 Feb 19;457(7232):1012-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07634.

Detecting influenza epidemics using search engine query data.

Ginsberg J(1), Mohebbi MH, Patel RS, Brammer L, Smolinski MS, Brilliant L.

Author information: 
(1)Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, California 94043, USA.

Seasonal influenza epidemics are a major public health concern, causing tens of
millions of respiratory illnesses and 250,000 to 500,000 deaths worldwide each
year. In addition to seasonal influenza, a new strain of influenza virus against 
which no previous immunity exists and that demonstrates human-to-human
transmission could result in a pandemic with millions of fatalities. Early
detection of disease activity, when followed by a rapid response, can reduce the 
impact of both seasonal and pandemic influenza. One way to improve early
detection is to monitor health-seeking behaviour in the form of queries to online
search engines, which are submitted by millions of users around the world each
day. Here we present a method of analysing large numbers of Google search queries
to track influenza-like illness in a population. Because the relative frequency
of certain queries is highly correlated with the percentage of physician visits
in which a patient presents with influenza-like symptoms, we can accurately
estimate the current level of weekly influenza activity in each region of the
United States, with a reporting lag of about one day. This approach may make it
possible to use search queries to detect influenza epidemics in areas with a
large population of web search users.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07634 
PMID: 19020500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):910-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07762.

Metabolomic profiles delineate potential role for sarcosine in prostate cancer
progression.

Sreekumar A(1), Poisson LM, Rajendiran TM, Khan AP, Cao Q, Yu J, Laxman B, Mehra 
R, Lonigro RJ, Li Y, Nyati MK, Ahsan A, Kalyana-Sundaram S, Han B, Cao X, Byun J,
Omenn GS, Ghosh D, Pennathur S, Alexander DC, Berger A, Shuster JR, Wei JT,
Varambally S, Beecher C, Chinnaiyan AM.

Author information: 
(1)The Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, Ann Arbor, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Jul 25;499(7459):504.

Comment in
    Fed Regist. 2013 Aug 6;78(151):47699.
    Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):799-800.

Multiple, complex molecular events characterize cancer development and
progression. Deciphering the molecular networks that distinguish organ-confined
disease from metastatic disease may lead to the identification of critical
biomarkers for cancer invasion and disease aggressiveness. Although gene and
protein expression have been extensively profiled in human tumours, little is
known about the global metabolomic alterations that characterize neoplastic
progression. Using a combination of high-throughput
liquid-and-gas-chromatography-based mass spectrometry, we profiled more than
1,126 metabolites across 262 clinical samples related to prostate cancer (42
tissues and 110 each of urine and plasma). These unbiased metabolomic profiles
were able to distinguish benign prostate, clinically localized prostate cancer
and metastatic disease. Sarcosine, an N-methyl derivative of the amino acid
glycine, was identified as a differential metabolite that was highly increased
during prostate cancer progression to metastasis and can be detected
non-invasively in urine. Sarcosine levels were also increased in invasive
prostate cancer cell lines relative to benign prostate epithelial cells.
Knockdown of glycine-N-methyl transferase, the enzyme that generates sarcosine
from glycine, attenuated prostate cancer invasion. Addition of exogenous
sarcosine or knockdown of the enzyme that leads to sarcosine degradation,
sarcosine dehydrogenase, induced an invasive phenotype in benign prostate
epithelial cells. Androgen receptor and the ERG gene fusion product coordinately 
regulate components of the sarcosine pathway. Here, by profiling the metabolomic 
alterations of prostate cancer progression, we reveal sarcosine as a potentially 
important metabolic intermediary of cancer cell invasion and aggressivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07762 
PMCID: PMC2724746
PMID: 19212411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):896-900. doi: 10.1038/nature07760.

Continuous single-cell imaging of blood generation from haemogenic endothelium.

Eilken HM(1), Nishikawa S, Schroeder T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Stem Cell Research, Helmholtz Center Munich-German Research
Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), 85764 Neuherberg, Germany.

Despite decades of research, the identity of the cells generating the first
haematopoietic cells in mammalian embryos is unknown. Indeed, whether blood cells
arise from mesodermal cells, mesenchymal progenitors, bipotent
endothelial-haematopoietic precursors or haemogenic endothelial cells remains
controversial. Proximity of endothelial and blood cells at sites of embryonic
haematopoiesis, as well as their similar gene expression, led to the hypothesis
of the endothelium generating blood. However, owing to lacking technology it has 
been impossible to observe blood cell emergence continuously at the single-cell
level, and the postulated existence of haemogenic endothelial cells remains
disputed. Here, using new imaging and cell-tracking methods, we show that
embryonic endothelial cells can be haemogenic. By continuous long-term
single-cell observation of mouse mesodermal cells generating endothelial cell and
blood colonies, it was possible to detect haemogenic endothelial cells giving
rise to blood cells. Living endothelial and haematopoietic cells were identified 
by simultaneous detection of morphology and multiple molecular and functional
markers. Detachment of nascent blood cells from endothelium is not directly
linked to asymmetric cell division, and haemogenic endothelial cells are
specified from cells already expressing endothelial markers. These results
improve our understanding of the developmental origin of mammalian blood and the 
potential generation of haematopoietic stem cells from embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07760 
PMID: 19212410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):877-81. doi: 10.1038/nature07744.

A burst of segmental duplications in the genome of the African great ape
ancestor.

Marques-Bonet T(1), Kidd JM, Ventura M, Graves TA, Cheng Z, Hillier LW, Jiang Z, 
Baker C, Malfavon-Borja R, Fulton LA, Alkan C, Aksay G, Girirajan S, Siswara P,
Chen L, Cardone MF, Navarro A, Mardis ER, Wilson RK, Eichler EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington and the Howard Hughes 
Medical Institute, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

It is generally accepted that the extent of phenotypic change between human and
great apes is dissonant with the rate of molecular change. Between these two
groups, proteins are virtually identical, cytogenetically there are few
rearrangements that distinguish ape-human chromosomes, and rates of
single-base-pair change and retrotransposon activity have slowed particularly
within hominid lineages when compared to rodents or monkeys. Studies of gene
family evolution indicate that gene loss and gain are enriched within the primate
lineage. Here, we perform a systematic analysis of duplication content of four
primate genomes (macaque, orang-utan, chimpanzee and human) in an effort to
understand the pattern and rates of genomic duplication during hominid evolution.
We find that the ancestral branch leading to human and African great apes shows
the most significant increase in duplication activity both in terms of base pairs
and in terms of events. This duplication acceleration within the ancestral
species is significant when compared to lineage-specific rate estimates even
after accounting for copy-number polymorphism and homoplasy. We discover striking
examples of recurrent and independent gene-containing duplications within the
gorilla and chimpanzee that are absent in the human lineage. Our results suggest 
that the evolutionary properties of copy-number mutation differ significantly
from other forms of genetic mutation and, in contrast to the hominid slowdown of 
single-base-pair mutations, there has been a genomic burst of duplication
activity at this period during human evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07744 
PMCID: PMC2751663
PMID: 19212409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):873-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07688.

Magma-compensated crustal thinning in continental rift zones.

Thybo H(1), Nielsen CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography and Geology, University of Copenhagen, Oester Voldgade
10, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark. thybo@geo.ku.dk

Continental rift zones are long, narrow tectonic depressions in the Earth's
surface where the entire lithosphere has been modified in extension. Rifting can 
eventually lead to rupture of the continental lithosphere and creation of new
oceanic lithosphere or, alternatively, lead to formation of wide sedimentary
basins around failed rift zones. Conventional models of rift zones include three 
characteristic features: surface manifestation as an elongated topographic
trough, Moho shallowing due to crustal thinning, and reduced seismic velocity in 
the uppermost mantle due to decompression melting or heating from the Earth's
interior. Here we demonstrate that only the surface manifestation is observed at 
the Baikal rift zone, whereas the crustal and mantle characteristics can be ruled
out by a new seismic profile across southern Lake Baikal in Siberia. Instead we
observe a localized zone in the lower crust which has exceptionally high seismic 
velocity and is highly reflective. We suggest that the expected Moho uplift was
compensated by magmatic intrusion into the lower crust, producing the observed
high-velocity zone. This finding demonstrates a previously unknown role for
magmatism in rifting processes with significant implications for estimation of
stretching factors and modelling of sedimentary basins around failed rift
structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07688 
PMID: 19212408 


788. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):868-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07718.

Nanomoulding with amorphous metals.

Kumar G(1), Tang HX, Schroers J.

Author information: 
(1)Mechanical Engineering, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.

Nanoimprinting promises low-cost fabrication of micro- and nano-devices by
embossing features from a hard mould onto thermoplastic materials, typically
polymers with low glass transition temperature. The success and proliferation of 
such methods critically rely on the manufacturing of robust and durable master
moulds. Silicon-based moulds are brittle and have limited longevity. Metal moulds
are stronger than semiconductors, but patterning of metals on the nanometre scale
is limited by their finite grain size. Amorphous metals (metallic glasses)
exhibit superior mechanical properties and are intrinsically free from grain size
limitations. Here we demonstrate direct nanopatterning of metallic glasses by hot
embossing, generating feature sizes as small as 13 nm. After subsequently
crystallizing the as-formed metallic glass mould, we show that another amorphous 
sample of the same alloy can be formed on the crystallized mould. In addition,
metallic glass replicas can also be used as moulds for polymers or other metallic
glasses with lower softening temperatures. Using this 'spawning' process, we can 
massively replicate patterned surfaces through direct moulding without using
conventional lithography. We anticipate that our findings will catalyse the
development of micro- and nanoscale metallic glass applications that capitalize
on the outstanding mechanical properties, microstructural homogeneity and
isotropy, and ease of thermoplastic forming exhibited by these materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07718 
PMID: 19212407 


789. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):859-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07751.

Tunable delay of Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement.

Marino AM(1), Pooser RC, Boyer V, Lett PD.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Quantum Institute, National Institute of Standards and Technology and
University of Maryland, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, USA.
alberto.marino@nist.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):798-9.

Entangled systems display correlations that are stronger than can be obtained
classically. This makes entanglement an essential resource for a number of
applications, such as quantum information processing, quantum computing and
quantum communications. The ability to control the transfer of entanglement
between different locations will play a key role in these quantum protocols and
enable quantum networks. Such a transfer requires a system that can delay quantum
correlations without significant degradation, effectively acting as a short-term 
quantum memory. An important benchmark for such systems is the ability to delay
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) levels of entanglement and to be able to tune the
delay. EPR entanglement is the basis for a number of quantum protocols, allowing 
the remote inference of the properties of one system (to better than its standard
quantum limit) through measurements on the other correlated system. Here we show 
that a four-wave mixing process based on a double-lambda scheme in hot (85)Rb
vapour allows us to obtain an optically tunable delay for EPR entangled beams of 
light. A significant maximum delay, of the order of the width of the
cross-correlation function, is achieved. The four-wave mixing also preserves the 
quantum spatial correlations of the entangled beams. We take advantage of this
property to delay entangled images, making this the first step towards a quantum 
memory for images.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07751 
PMID: 19212406 


790. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):854-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07730.

ChIP-seq accurately predicts tissue-specific activity of enhancers.

Visel A(1), Blow MJ, Li Z, Zhang T, Akiyama JA, Holt A, Plajzer-Frick I, Shoukry 
M, Wright C, Chen F, Afzal V, Ren B, Rubin EM, Pennacchio LA.

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Division, MS 84-171, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

A major yet unresolved quest in decoding the human genome is the identification
of the regulatory sequences that control the spatial and temporal expression of
genes. Distant-acting transcriptional enhancers are particularly challenging to
uncover because they are scattered among the vast non-coding portion of the
genome. Evolutionary sequence constraint can facilitate the discovery of
enhancers, but fails to predict when and where they are active in vivo. Here we
present the results of chromatin immunoprecipitation with the enhancer-associated
protein p300 followed by massively parallel sequencing, and map several thousand 
in vivo binding sites of p300 in mouse embryonic forebrain, midbrain and limb
tissue. We tested 86 of these sequences in a transgenic mouse assay, which in
nearly all cases demonstrated reproducible enhancer activity in the tissues that 
were predicted by p300 binding. Our results indicate that in vivo mapping of p300
binding is a highly accurate means for identifying enhancers and their associated
activities, and suggest that such data sets will be useful to study the role of
tissue-specific enhancers in human biology and disease on a genome-wide scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07730 
PMCID: PMC2745234
PMID: 19212405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):849-53. doi: 10.1038/nature07742.

Life without a wall or division machine in Bacillus subtilis.

Leaver M(1), Domínguez-Cuevas P, Coxhead JM, Daniel RA, Errington J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences, Newcastle University,
Framlington Place, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

The cell wall is an essential structure for virtually all bacteria, forming a
tough outer shell that protects the cell from damage and osmotic lysis. It is the
target of our best antibiotics. L-form strains are wall-deficient derivatives of 
common bacteria that have been studied for decades. However, they are difficult
to generate and typically require growth for many generations on osmotically
protective media with antibiotics or enzymes that kill walled forms. Despite
their potential importance for understanding antibiotic resistance and
pathogenesis, little is known about their basic cell biology or their means of
propagation. We have developed a controllable system for generating L-forms in
the highly tractable model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. Here, using genome
sequencing, we identify a single point mutation that predisposes cells to grow
without a wall. We show that propagation of L-forms does not require the normal
FtsZ-dependent division machine but occurs by a remarkable extrusion-resolution
mechanism. This novel form of propagation provides insights into how early forms 
of cellular life may have proliferated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07742 
PMID: 19212404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):843-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07895.

The nature of selection during plant domestication.

Purugganan MD(1), Fuller DQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Centre for Genomics and Systems Biology, 100
Washington Square East, New York University, New York 10003, USA. mp132@nyu.edu

Plant domestication is an outstanding example of plant-animal co-evolution and is
a far richer model for studying evolution than is generally appreciated. There
have been numerous studies to identify genes associated with domestication, and
archaeological work has provided a clear understanding of the dynamics of human
cultivation practices during the Neolithic period. Together, these have provided 
a better understanding of the selective pressures that accompany crop
domestication, and they demonstrate that a synthesis from the twin vantage points
of genetics and archaeology can expand our understanding of the nature of
evolutionary selection that accompanies domestication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07895 
PMID: 19212403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):837-42. doi: 10.1038/nature07894.

Darwin's bridge between microevolution and macroevolution.

Reznick DN(1), Ricklefs RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, California 92521, 
USA. gupy@ucr.edu

Evolutionary biologists have long sought to understand the relationship between
microevolution (adaptation), which can be observed both in nature and in the
laboratory, and macroevolution (speciation and the origin of the divisions of the
taxonomic hierarchy above the species level, and the development of complex
organs), which cannot be witnessed because it occurs over intervals that far
exceed the human lifespan. The connection between these processes is also a major
source of conflict between science and religious belief. Biologists often forget 
that Charles Darwin offered a way of resolving this issue, and his proposal is
ripe for re-evaluation in the light of recent research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07894 
PMID: 19212402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):830-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07893.

Adaptation and diversification on islands.

Losos JB(1), Ricklefs RE.

Author information: 
(1)Museum of Comparative Zoology, 26 Oxford Street, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. jlosos@oeb.harvard.edu

Charles Darwin's travels on HMS Beagle taught him that islands are an important
source of evidence for evolution. Because many islands are young and have
relatively few species, evolutionary adaptation and species proliferation are
obvious and easy to study. In addition, the geographical isolation of many
islands has allowed evolution to take its own course, free of influence from
other areas, resulting in unusual faunas and floras, often unlike those found
anywhere else. For these reasons, island research provides valuable insights into
speciation and adaptive radiation, and into the relative importance of
contingency and determinism in evolutionary diversification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07893 
PMID: 19212401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):824-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07892.

The Beagle in a bottle.

Buckling A(1), Craig Maclean R, Brockhurst MA, Colegrave N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK.
angus.buckling@zoo.ox.ac.uk

Why infer evolution when you can watch it happen in real time? This is the basic 
premise of using populations of fast-replicating microorganisms in test tubes to 
study evolution. The approach, known as experimental evolution, has provided a
way of testing many of the key hypotheses that arose from the modern evolutionary
synthesis. However, details of the unnatural histories of microorganisms in test 
tubes can be extrapolated only so far. Potential future directions for the
approach include studying microbial evolution for its own sake under the most
natural conditions possible in the test tube, and testing some qualitative
theories of genome evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07892 
PMID: 19212400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):818-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07891.

Deep homology and the origins of evolutionary novelty.

Shubin N(1), Tabin C, Carroll S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, 1027 East
57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. nshubin@uchicago.edu

Do new anatomical structures arise de novo, or do they evolve from pre-existing
structures? Advances in developmental genetics, palaeontology and evolutionary
developmental biology have recently shed light on the origins of some of the
structures that most intrigued Charles Darwin, including animal eyes, tetrapod
limbs and giant beetle horns. In each case, structures arose by the modification 
of pre-existing genetic regulatory circuits established in early metazoans. The
deep homology of generative processes and cell-type specification mechanisms in
animal development has provided the foundation for the independent evolution of a
great variety of structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07891 
PMID: 19212399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):812-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07890.

The origin and evolution of arthropods.

Budd GE(1), Telford MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Uppsala University, Villavägen 16, Uppsala
SE-752 36, Sweden. graham.budd@pal.uu.se

The past two decades have witnessed profound changes in our understanding of the 
evolution of arthropods. Many of these insights derive from the adoption of
molecular methods by systematists and developmental biologists, prompting a
radical reordering of the relationships among extant arthropod classes and their 
closest non-arthropod relatives, and shedding light on the developmental basis
for the origins of key characteristics. A complementary source of data is the
discovery of fossils from several spectacular Cambrian faunas. These fossils form
well-characterized groupings, making the broad pattern of Cambrian arthropod
systematics increasingly consensual.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07890 
PMID: 19212398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):808-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07889.

Natural selection 150 years on.

Pagel M(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Reading, Reading RG6 6AJ, UK.
m.pagel@reading.ac.uk

The theory of evolution by natural selection has prospered in its first 150 years
and provides a consistent account of species as highly adapted and rare survivors
in the struggle for existence. It now faces the challenge of finding order in the
evolution of complex systems, including human society.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07889 
PMID: 19212397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):E1; discussion E2-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07738.

ETS rearrangements and prostate cancer initiation.

Carver BS(1), Tran J, Chen Z, Carracedo-Perez A, Alimonti A, Nardella C, Gopalan 
A, Scardino PT, Cordon-Cardo C, Gerald W, Pandolfi PP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Comment on
    Nature. 2007 Aug 2;448(7153):595-9.

The first recurrent translocation event in prostate cancer has been recently
described; it results in the translocation of an ETS (E26 transformation
specific) transcription factor (ERG or ETV1) to the TMPRSS2 promoter region,
which contains androgen responsive elements. The TMPRSS2:ERG genetic
rearrangement has been reported to occur in approximately 40% of primary prostate
tumours (ETV1 genetic rearrangements occur at a much lower frequency), and it
results in the aberrant androgen-regulated expression of ERG. Tomlins et al.
concluded that ETS genetic rearrangements are sufficient to initiate prostate
neoplasia. However, here we show that ETS genetic rearrangements may in fact
represent progression events rather than initiation events in prostate
tumorigenesis. To this end, we demonstrate that the prostate-specific
overexpression of ERG does not initiate prostate tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07738 
PMCID: PMC2967456
PMID: 19212347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):892-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07679. Epub 2009 Jan 28.

The haemangioblast generates haematopoietic cells through a haemogenic
endothelium stage.

Lancrin C(1), Sroczynska P, Stephenson C, Allen T, Kouskoff V, Lacaud G.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Stem Cell Biology Group.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):801-3.

It has been proposed that during embryonic development haematopoietic cells arise
from a mesodermal progenitor with both endothelial and haematopoietic potential
called the haemangioblast. A conflicting theory instead associates the first
haematopoietic cells with a phenotypically differentiated endothelial cell that
has haematopoietic potential (that is, a haemogenic endothelium). Support for the
haemangioblast concept was initially provided by the identification during mouse 
embryonic stem cell differentiation of a clonal precursor, the blast
colony-forming cell (BL-CFC), which gives rise to blast colonies with both
endothelial and haematopoietic components. Although recent studies have now
provided evidence for the presence of this bipotential precursor in vivo, the
precise mechanism for generation of haematopoietic cells from the haemangioblast 
still remains completely unknown. Here we demonstrate that the haemangioblast
generates haematopoietic cells through the formation of a haemogenic endothelium 
intermediate, providing the first direct link between these two precursor
populations. The cell population containing the haemogenic endothelium is
transiently generated during BL-CFC development. This cell population is also
present in gastrulating mouse embryos and generates haematopoietic cells on
further culture. At the molecular level, we demonstrate that the transcription
factor Tal1 (also known as Scl; ref. 10) is indispensable for the establishment
of this haemogenic endothelium population whereas the core binding factor Runx1
(also known as AML1; ref. 11) is critical for generation of definitive
haematopoietic cells from haemogenic endothelium. Together our results merge the 
two a priori conflicting theories on the origin of haematopoietic development
into a single linear developmental process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07679 
PMCID: PMC2661201
PMID: 19182774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):882-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07684. Epub 2009 Jan 28.

Human occludin is a hepatitis C virus entry factor required for infection of
mouse cells.

Ploss A(1), Evans MJ, Gaysinskaya VA, Panis M, You H, de Jong YP, Rice CM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Hepatitis C, The Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2009 May;49(5):1770-2.
    Gastroenterology. 2009 Aug;137(2):727-8.
    J Hepatol. 2009 Sep;51(3):609-11.
    Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):797-8.
    Cell Res. 2013 Dec;23(12):1343-4.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a leading cause of liver disease worldwide. The
development of much needed specific antiviral therapies and an effective vaccine 
has been hampered by the lack of a convenient small animal model. The
determinants restricting HCV tropism to human and chimpanzee hosts are unknown.
Replication of the viral RNA has been demonstrated in mouse cells, but these
cells are not infectable with either lentiviral particles bearing HCV
glycoproteins (HCVpp) or HCV produced in cell culture (HCVcc) (A.P., M.E. and
C.M.R., unpublished observations), suggesting that there is a block at the level 
of entry. Here we show, using an iterative complementary DNA library screening
approach, that human occludin (OCLN) is an essential HCV cell entry factor that
is able to render murine cells infectable with HCVpp. Similarly, OCLN is required
for the HCV-susceptibility of human cells, because its overexpression in
uninfectable cells specifically enhanced HCVpp uptake, whereas its silencing in
permissive cells impaired both HCVpp and HCVcc infection. In addition to OCLN,
HCVpp infection of murine cells required expression of the previously identified 
HCV entry factors CD81 (ref. 4), scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI, also
known as SCARB1) and claudin-1 (CLDN1). Although the mouse versions of SR-BI and 
CLDN1 function at least as well as the human proteins in promoting HCV entry,
both OCLN and CD81 must be of human origin to allow efficient infection. The
species-specific determinants of OCLN were mapped to its second extracellular
loop. The identification of OCLN as a new HCV entry factor further highlights the
importance of the tight junction complex in the viral entry process, and provides
an important advance towards efforts to develop small animal models for HCV.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07684 
PMCID: PMC2762424
PMID: 19182773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):863-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07736. Epub 2009 Jan 28.

Ionic high-pressure form of elemental boron.

Oganov AR(1), Chen J, Gatti C, Ma Y, Ma Y, Glass CW, Liu Z, Yu T, Kurakevych OO, 
Solozhenko VL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Crystallography, Department of Materials, ETH Zurich,
Wolfgang-Pauli-Str. 10, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland. artem.oganov@sunysb.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):800-1.

Boron is an element of fascinating chemical complexity. Controversies have
shrouded this element since its discovery was announced in 1808: the new
'element' turned out to be a compound containing less than 60-70% of boron, and
it was not until 1909 that 99% pure boron was obtained. And although we now know 
of at least 16 polymorphs, the stable phase of boron is not yet experimentally
established even at ambient conditions. Boron's complexities arise from
frustration: situated between metals and insulators in the periodic table, boron 
has only three valence electrons, which would favour metallicity, but they are
sufficiently localized that insulating states emerge. However, this subtle
balance between metallic and insulating states is easily shifted by pressure,
temperature and impurities. Here we report the results of high-pressure
experiments and ab initio evolutionary crystal structure predictions that explore
the structural stability of boron under pressure and, strikingly, reveal a
partially ionic high-pressure boron phase. This new phase is stable between 19
and 89 GPa, can be quenched to ambient conditions, and has a hitherto unknown
structure (space group Pnnm, 28 atoms in the unit cell) consisting of icosahedral
B(12) clusters and B(2) pairs in a NaCl-type arrangement. We find that the
ionicity of the phase affects its electronic bandgap, infrared adsorption and
dielectric constants, and that it arises from the different electronic properties
of the B(2) pairs and B(12) clusters and the resultant charge transfer between
them.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07736 
PMID: 19182772 


803. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):887-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07619. Epub 2009 Jan 7.

Runx1 is required for the endothelial to haematopoietic cell transition but not
thereafter.

Chen MJ(1), Yokomizo T, Zeigler BM, Dzierzak E, Speck NA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire
03755, USA.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the founder cells of the adult
haematopoietic system, and thus knowledge of the molecular program directing
their generation during development is important for regenerative haematopoietic 
strategies. Runx1 is a pivotal transcription factor required for HSC generation
in the vascular regions of the mouse conceptus-the aorta, vitelline and umbilical
arteries, yolk sac and placenta. It is thought that HSCs emerge from vascular
endothelial cells through the formation of intra-arterial clusters and that Runx1
functions during the transition from 'haemogenic endothelium' to HSCs. Here we
show by conditional deletion that Runx1 activity in
vascular-endothelial-cadherin-positive endothelial cells is indeed essential for 
intra-arterial cluster, haematopoietic progenitor and HSC formation in mice. In
contrast, Runx1 is not required in cells expressing Vav1, one of the first
pan-haematopoietic genes expressed in HSCs. Collectively these data show that
Runx1 function is essential in endothelial cells for haematopoietic progenitor
and HSC formation from the vasculature, but its requirement ends once or before
Vav is expressed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07619 
PMCID: PMC2744041
PMID: 19129762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):901-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07577. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Calcium flickers steer cell migration.

Wei C(1), Wang X, Chen M, Ouyang K, Song LS, Cheng H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and
Membrane Biotechnology, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
chaoliang.wei@gmail.com

Directional movement is a property common to all cell types during development
and is critical to tissue remodelling and regeneration after damage. In migrating
cells, calcium has a multifunctional role in directional sensing, cytoskeleton
redistribution, traction force generation, and relocation of focal adhesions.
Here we visualize high-calcium microdomains ('calcium flickers') and their
patterned activation in migrating human embryonic lung fibroblasts. Calcium
flicker activity is dually coupled to membrane tension (by means of TRPM7, a
stretch-activated Ca(2+)-permeant channel of the transient receptor potential
superfamily) and chemoattractant signal transduction (by means of type 2
inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors). Interestingly, calcium flickers are most
active at the leading lamella of migrating cells, displaying a 4:1 front-to-rear 
polarization opposite to the global calcium gradient. When exposed to a
platelet-derived growth factor gradient perpendicular to cell movement,
asymmetric calcium flicker activity develops across the lamella and promotes the 
turning of migrating fibroblasts. These findings show how the exquisite
spatiotemporal organization of calcium microdomains can orchestrate complex
cellular processes such as cell migration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07577 
PMCID: PMC3505761
PMID: 19118385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):915-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07598. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

A stress-responsive RNA switch regulates VEGFA expression.

Ray PS(1), Jia J, Yao P, Majumder M, Hatzoglou M, Fox PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, The Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Ligand binding to structural elements in the non-coding regions of messenger RNA 
modulates gene expression. Ligands such as free metabolites or other small
molecules directly bind and induce conformational changes in regulatory RNA
elements known as riboswitches. Other types of RNA switches are activated by
complexed metabolites-for example, RNA-ligated metabolites such as
aminoacyl-charged transfer RNA in the T-box system, or protein-bound metabolites 
in the glucose- or amino-acid-stimulated terminator-anti-terminator systems. All 
of these switch types are found in bacteria, fungi and plants. Here we report an 
RNA switch in human vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGFA, also known as
VEGF) mRNA 3' untranslated region (UTR) that integrates signals from interferon
(IFN)-gamma and hypoxia to regulate VEGFA translation in myeloid cells. Analogous
to riboswitches, the VEGFA 3' UTR undergoes a binary conformational change in
response to environmental signals. However, the VEGFA 3' UTR switch is
metabolite-independent, and the conformational change is dictated by mutually
exclusive, stimulus-dependent binding of proteins, namely, the
IFN-gamma-activated inhibitor of translation complex and heterogeneous nuclear
ribonucleoprotein L (HNRNPL, also known as hnRNP L). We speculate that the VEGFA 
switch represents the founding member of a family of signal-mediated,
protein-dependent RNA switches that evolved to regulate gene expression in
multicellular animals in which the precise integration of disparate inputs may be
more important than the rapidity of response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07598 
PMCID: PMC2858559
PMID: 19098893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nature. 2009 Feb 12;457(7231):906-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07575. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

ABIN-1 is a ubiquitin sensor that restricts cell death and sustains embryonic
development.

Oshima S(1), Turer EE, Callahan JA, Chai S, Advincula R, Barrera J, Shifrin N,
Lee B, Benedict Yen TS, Woo T, Malynn BA, Ma A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, 513
Parnassus Avenue, S-1057, San Francisco, California 94143-0451, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 26;458(7237):538.

Proteins that directly regulate tumour necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) signalling
have critical roles in regulating cellular activation and survival. ABIN-1 (A20
binding and inhibitor of NF-kappaB) is a novel protein that is thought to inhibit
NF-kappaB signalling. Here we show that mice deficient for ABIN-1 die during
embryogenesis with fetal liver apoptosis, anaemia and hypoplasia. ABIN-1
deficient cells are hypersensitive to tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-induced
programmed cell death, and TNF deficiency rescues ABIN-1 deficient embryos.
ABIN-1 inhibits caspase 8 recruitment to FADD (Fas-associated death
domain-containing protein) in TNF-induced signalling complexes, preventing
caspase 8 cleavage and programmed cell death. Moreover, ABIN-1 directly binds
polyubiquitin chains and this ubiquitin sensing activity is required for ABIN-1's
anti-apoptotic activity. These studies provide insights into how ubiquitination
and ubiquitin sensing proteins regulate cellular and organismal survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07575 
PMCID: PMC2642523
PMID: 19060883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):718-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07673.

Fossil steroids record the appearance of Demospongiae during the Cryogenian
period.

Love GD(1), Grosjean E, Stalvies C, Fike DA, Grotzinger JP, Bradley AS, Kelly AE,
Bhatia M, Meredith W, Snape CE, Bowring SA, Condon DJ, Summons RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 
92521, USA. glove@ucr.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):672-3.

The Neoproterozoic era (1,000-542 Myr ago) was an era of climatic extremes and
biological evolutionary developments culminating in the emergence of animals
(Metazoa) and new ecosystems. Here we show that abundant sedimentary
24-isopropylcholestanes, the hydrocarbon remains of C(30) sterols produced by
marine demosponges, record the presence of Metazoa in the geological record
before the end of the Marinoan glaciation ( approximately 635 Myr ago). These
sterane biomarkers are abundant in all formations of the Huqf Supergroup, South
Oman Salt Basin, and, based on a new high-precision geochronology, constitute a
continuous 100-Myr-long chemical fossil record of demosponges through the
terminal Neoproterozoic and into the Early Cambrian epoch. The demosponge
steranes occur in strata that underlie the Marinoan cap carbonate (>635 Myr ago).
They currently represent the oldest evidence for animals in the fossil record,
and are evidence for animals pre-dating the termination of the Marinoan
glaciation. This suggests that shallow shelf waters in some late Cryogenian ocean
basins (>635 Myr ago) contained dissolved oxygen in concentrations sufficient to 
support basal metazoan life at least 100 Myr before the rapid diversification of 
bilaterians during the Cambrian explosion. Biomarker analysis has yet to reveal
any convincing evidence for ancient sponges pre-dating the first globally
extensive Neoproterozoic glacial episode (the Sturtian, approximately 713 Myr ago
in Oman).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07673 
PMID: 19194449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):715-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07671.

Giant boid snake from the Palaeocene neotropics reveals hotter past equatorial
temperatures.

Head JJ(1), Bloch JI, Hastings AK, Bourque JR, Cadena EA, Herrera FA, Polly PD,
Jaramillo CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Toronto, Mississauga, Ontario L5L 1C6,
Canada. jason.head@utoronto.ca

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):532.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):669-71.

The largest extant snakes live in the tropics of South America and southeast Asia
where high temperatures facilitate the evolution of large body sizes among
air-breathing animals whose body temperatures are dependant on ambient
environmental temperatures (poikilothermy). Very little is known about ancient
tropical terrestrial ecosystems, limiting our understanding of the evolution of
giant snakes and their relationship to climate in the past. Here we describe a
boid snake from the oldest known neotropical rainforest fauna from the Cerrejón
Formation (58-60 Myr ago) in northeastern Colombia. We estimate a body length of 
13 m and a mass of 1,135 kg, making it the largest known snake. The maximum size 
of poikilothermic animals at a given temperature is limited by metabolic rate,
and a snake of this size would require a minimum mean annual temperature of 30-34
degrees C to survive. This estimate is consistent with hypotheses of hot
Palaeocene neotropics with high concentrations of atmospheric CO(2) based on
climate models. Comparison of palaeotemperature estimates from the equator to
those from South American mid-latitudes indicates a relatively steep temperature 
gradient during the early Palaeogene greenhouse, similar to that of today.
Depositional environments and faunal composition of the Cerrejón Formation
indicate an anaconda-like ecology for the giant snake, and an earliest Cenozoic
origin of neotropical vertebrate faunas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07671 
PMID: 19194448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):711-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07717.

Holocene oscillations in temperature and salinity of the surface subpolar North
Atlantic.

Thornalley DJ(1), Elderfield H, McCave IN.

Author information: 
(1)The Godwin Laboratory for Palaeoclimate Research, Department of Earth
Sciences, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EQ, UK.
d.thornalley@cantab.net

The Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) transports warm salty
surface waters to high latitudes, where they cool, sink and return southwards at 
depth. Through its attendant meridional heat transport, the AMOC helps maintain a
warm northwestern European climate, and acts as a control on the global climate. 
Past climate fluctuations during the Holocene epoch ( approximately 11,700 years 
ago to the present) have been linked with changes in North Atlantic Ocean
circulation. The behaviour of the surface flowing salty water that helped drive
overturning during past climatic changes is, however, not well known. Here we
investigate the temperature and salinity changes of a substantial surface inflow 
to a region of deep-water formation throughout the Holocene. We find that the
inflow has undergone millennial-scale variations in temperature and salinity (
approximately 3.5 degrees C and approximately 1.5 practical salinity units,
respectively) most probably controlled by subpolar gyre dynamics. The temperature
and salinity variations correlate with previously reported periods of rapid
climate change. The inflow becomes more saline during enhanced freshwater flux to
the subpolar North Atlantic. Model studies predict a weakening of AMOC in
response to enhanced Arctic freshwater fluxes, although the inflow can compensate
on decadal timescales by becoming more saline. Our data suggest that such a
negative feedback mechanism may have operated during past intervals of climate
change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07717 
PMID: 19194447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):702-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07729.

Spin state tomography of optically injected electrons in a semiconductor.

Kosaka H(1), Inagaki T, Rikitake Y, Imamura H, Mitsumori Y, Edamatsu K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Nanoelectronics and Spintronics, Research Institute of
Electrical Communication, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8577, Japan.
kosaka@riec.tohoku.ac.jp

Spin is a fundamental property of electrons, with an important role in
information storage. For spin-based quantum information technology, preparation
and read-out of the electron spin state are essential functions. Coherence of the
spin state is a manifestation of its quantum nature, so both the preparation and 
read-out should be spin-coherent. However, the traditional spin measurement
technique based on Kerr rotation, which measures spin population using the
rotation of the reflected light polarization that is due to the magneto-optical
Kerr effect, requires an extra step of spin manipulation or precession to infer
the spin coherence. Here we describe a technique that generalizes the traditional
Kerr rotation approach to enable us to measure the electron spin coherence
directly without needing to manipulate the spin dynamics, which allows for a spin
projection measurement on an arbitrary set of basis states. Because this
technique enables spin state tomography, we call it tomographic Kerr rotation. We
demonstrate that the polarization coherence of light is transferred to the spin
coherence of electrons, and confirm this by applying the tomographic Kerr
rotation method to semiconductor quantum wells with precessing and non-precessing
electrons. Spin state transfer and tomography offers a tool for performing
basis-independent preparation and read-out of a spin quantum state in a solid.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07729 
PMID: 19194446 


811. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):699-701. doi: 10.1038/nature07681.

A kiloparsec-scale hyper-starburst in a quasar host less than 1 gigayear after
the Big Bang.

Walter F(1), Riechers D, Cox P, Neri R, Carilli C, Bertoldi F, Weiss A, Maiolino 
R.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany. walter@mpia.de

The host galaxy of the quasar SDSS J114816.64+525150.3 (at redshift z = 6.42,
when the Universe was less than a billion years old) has an infrared luminosity
of 2.2 x 10(13) times that of the Sun, presumably significantly powered by a
massive burst of star formation. In local examples of extremely luminous
galaxies, such as Arp 220, the burst of star formation is concentrated in a
relatively small central region of <100 pc radius. It is not known on which
scales stars are forming in active galaxies in the early Universe, at a time when
they are probably undergoing their initial burst of star formation. We do know
that at some early time, structures comparable to the spheroidal bulge of the
Milky Way must have formed. Here we report a spatially resolved image of [C ii]
emission of the host galaxy of J114816.64+525150.3 that demonstrates that its
star-forming gas is distributed over a radius of about 750 pc around the centre. 
The surface density of the star formation rate averaged over this region is
approximately 1,000 year(-1) kpc(-2). This surface density is comparable to the
peak in Arp 220, although about two orders of magnitude larger in area. This
vigorous star-forming event is likely to give rise to a massive spheroidal
component in this system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07681 
PMID: 19194445 


812. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):694-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07724.

Visualization of a missing link in retrovirus capsid assembly.

Cardone G(1), Purdy JG, Cheng N, Craven RC, Steven AC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute for Arthritis,
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

For a retrovirus such as HIV to be infectious, a properly formed capsid is
needed; however, unusually among viruses, retrovirus capsids are highly variable 
in structure. According to the fullerene conjecture, they are composed of
hexamers and pentamers of capsid protein (CA), with the shape of a capsid varying
according to how the twelve pentamers are distributed and its size depending on
the number of hexamers. Hexamers have been studied in planar and tubular arrays, 
but the predicted pentamers have not been observed. Here we report cryo-electron 
microscopic analyses of two in-vitro-assembled capsids of Rous sarcoma virus.
Both are icosahedrally symmetric: one is composed of 12 pentamers, and the other 
of 12 pentamers and 20 hexamers. Fitting of atomic models of the two CA domains
into the reconstructions shows three distinct inter-subunit interactions. These
observations substantiate the fullerene conjecture, show how pentamers are
accommodated at vertices, support the inference that nucleation is a crucial
morphologic determinant, and imply that electrostatic interactions govern the
differential assembly of pentamers and hexamers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07724 
PMCID: PMC2721793
PMID: 19194444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):679-86. doi: 10.1038/nature07727. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

A high-mobility electron-transporting polymer for printed transistors.

Yan H(1), Chen Z, Zheng Y, Newman C, Quinn JR, Dötz F, Kastler M, Facchetti A.

Author information: 
(1)Polyera Corporation, 8045 Lamon Avenue, Skokie, Illinois 60077, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):667-8.

Printed electronics is a revolutionary technology aimed at unconventional
electronic device manufacture on plastic foils, and will probably rely on
polymeric semiconductors for organic thin-film transistor (OTFT) fabrication. In 
addition to having excellent charge-transport characteristics in ambient
conditions, such materials must meet other key requirements, such as chemical
stability, large solubility in common solvents, and inexpensive solution and/or
low-temperature processing. Furthermore, compatibility of both p-channel
(hole-transporting) and n-channel (electron-transporting) semiconductors with a
single combination of gate dielectric and contact materials is highly desirable
to enable powerful complementary circuit technologies, where p- and n-channel
OTFTs operate in concert. Polymeric complementary circuits operating in ambient
conditions are currently difficult to realize: although excellent p-channel
polymers are widely available, the achievement of high-performance n-channel
polymers is more challenging. Here we report a highly soluble ( approximately 60 
g l(-1)) and printable n-channel polymer exhibiting unprecedented OTFT
characteristics (electron mobilities up to approximately 0.45-0.85 cm(2) V(-1)
s(-1)) under ambient conditions in combination with Au contacts and various
polymeric dielectrics. Several top-gate OTFTs on plastic substrates were
fabricated with the semiconductor-dielectric layers deposited by spin-coating as 
well as by gravure, flexographic and inkjet printing, demonstrating great
processing versatility. Finally, all-printed polymeric complementary inverters
(with gain 25-65) have been demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07727 
PMID: 19158674 


814. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):706-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07719. Epub 2009 Jan 14.

Large-scale pattern growth of graphene films for stretchable transparent
electrodes.

Kim KS(1), Zhao Y, Jang H, Lee SY, Kim JM, Kim KS, Ahn JH, Kim P, Choi JY, Hong
BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 440-746, Korea.

Problems associated with large-scale pattern growth of graphene constitute one of
the main obstacles to using this material in device applications. Recently,
macroscopic-scale graphene films were prepared by two-dimensional assembly of
graphene sheets chemically derived from graphite crystals and graphene oxides.
However, the sheet resistance of these films was found to be much larger than
theoretically expected values. Here we report the direct synthesis of large-scale
graphene films using chemical vapour deposition on thin nickel layers, and
present two different methods of patterning the films and transferring them to
arbitrary substrates. The transferred graphene films show very low sheet
resistance of approximately 280 Omega per square, with approximately 80 per cent 
optical transparency. At low temperatures, the monolayers transferred to silicon 
dioxide substrates show electron mobility greater than 3,700 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1)
and exhibit the half-integer quantum Hall effect, implying that the quality of
graphene grown by chemical vapour deposition is as high as mechanically cleaved
graphene. Employing the outstanding mechanical properties of graphene, we also
demonstrate the macroscopic use of these highly conducting and transparent
electrodes in flexible, stretchable, foldable electronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07719 
PMID: 19145232 


815. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):741-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07579. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Peptide neurotransmitters activate a cation channel complex of NALCN and UNC-80.

Lu B(1), Su Y, Das S, Wang H, Wang Y, Liu J, Ren D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, 415 S. University Avenue,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Several neurotransmitters act through G-protein-coupled receptors to evoke a
'slow' excitation of neurons. These include peptides, such as substance P and
neurotensin, as well as acetylcholine and noradrenaline. Unlike the fast
(approximately millisecond) ionotropic actions of small-molecule
neurotransmitters, the slow excitation is not well understood at the molecular
level, but can be mainly attributed to suppressing K(+) currents and/or
activating a non-selective cation channel. The molecular identity of this cation 
channel has yet to be determined; similarly, how the channel is activated and its
relative contribution to neuronal excitability induced by the neuropeptides are
unknown. Here we show that, in the mouse hippocampal and ventral tegmental area
neurons, substance P and neurotensin activate a channel complex containing NALCN 
and a large previously unknown protein UNC-80. The activation by substance P
through TACR1 (a G-protein-coupled receptor for substance P) occurs by means of a
unique mechanism: it does not require G-protein activation but is dependent on
Src family kinases. These findings identify NALCN as the cation channel activated
by substance P receptor, and suggest that UNC-80 and Src family kinases, rather
than a G protein, are involved in the coupling from receptor to channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07579 
PMCID: PMC2810458
PMID: 19092807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):726-30. doi: 10.1038/nature07583. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

Signalling through RHEB-1 mediates intermittent fasting-induced longevity in C.
elegans.

Honjoh S(1), Yamamoto T, Uno M, Nishida E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Graduate School of Biostudies,
Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8502, Japan.

Dietary restriction is the most effective and reproducible intervention to extend
lifespan in divergent species. In mammals, two regimens of dietary restriction,
intermittent fasting (IF) and chronic caloric restriction, have proven to extend 
lifespan and reduce the incidence of age-related disorders. An important
characteristic of IF is that it can increase lifespan even when there is little
or no overall decrease in calorie intake. The molecular mechanisms underlying
IF-induced longevity, however, remain largely unknown. Here we establish an IF
regimen that effectively extends the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans, and show
that the low molecular weight GTPase RHEB-1 has a dual role in lifespan
regulation; RHEB-1 is required for the IF-induced longevity, whereas inhibition
of RHEB-1 mimics the caloric-restriction effects. RHEB-1 exerts its effects in
part by the insulin/insulin growth factor (IGF)-like signalling effector DAF-16
in IF. Our analyses demonstrate that most fasting-induced upregulated genes
require RHEB-1 function for their induction, and that RHEB-1 and TOR signalling
are required for the fasting-induced downregulation of an insulin-like peptide,
INS-7. These findings identify the essential role of signalling by RHEB-1 in
IF-induced longevity and gene expression changes, and suggest a molecular link
between the IF-induced longevity and the insulin/IGF-like signalling pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07583 
PMID: 19079239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):736-40. doi: 10.1038/nature07641. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

Messenger RNA targeting to endoplasmic reticulum stress signalling sites.

Aragón T(1), van Anken E, Pincus D, Serafimova IM, Korennykh AV, Rubio CA, Walter
P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California at San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158-2517, USA. Tomas.Aragon@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):668-9.

Deficiencies in the protein-folding capacity of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in
all eukaryotic cells lead to ER stress and trigger the unfolded protein response 
(UPR). ER stress is sensed by Ire1, a transmembrane kinase/endoribonuclease,
which initiates the non-conventional splicing of the messenger RNA encoding a key
transcription activator, Hac1 in yeast or XBP1 in metazoans. In the absence of ER
stress, ribosomes are stalled on unspliced HAC1 mRNA. The translational control
is imposed by a base-pairing interaction between the HAC1 intron and the HAC1 5' 
untranslated region. After excision of the intron, transfer RNA ligase joins the 
severed exons, lifting the translational block and allowing synthesis of Hac1
from the spliced HAC1 mRNA to ensue. Hac1 in turn drives the UPR gene expression 
program comprising 7-8% of the yeast genome to counteract ER stress. Here we show
that, on activation, Ire1 molecules cluster in the ER membrane into discrete foci
of higher-order oligomers, to which unspliced HAC1 mRNA is recruited by means of 
a conserved bipartite targeting element contained in the 3' untranslated region. 
Disruption of either Ire1 clustering or HAC1 mRNA recruitment impairs UPR
signalling. The HAC1 3' untranslated region element is sufficient to target other
mRNAs to Ire1 foci, as long as their translation is repressed. Translational
repression afforded by the intron fulfils this requirement for HAC1 mRNA.
Recruitment of mRNA to signalling centres provides a new paradigm for the control
of eukaryotic gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07641 
PMCID: PMC2768538
PMID: 19079237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):687-93. doi: 10.1038/nature07661. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

The unfolded protein response signals through high-order assembly of Ire1.

Korennykh AV(1), Egea PF, Korostelev AA, Finer-Moore J, Zhang C, Shokat KM,
Stroud RM, Walter P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California at San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA. alexei.korennykh@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):668-9.

Aberrant folding of proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum activates the
bifunctional transmembrane kinase/endoribonuclease Ire1. Ire1 excises an intron
from HAC1 messenger RNA in yeasts and Xbp1 messenger RNA in metozoans encoding
homologous transcription factors. This non-conventional mRNA splicing event
initiates the unfolded protein response, a transcriptional program that relieves 
the endoplasmic reticulum stress. Here we show that oligomerization is central to
Ire1 function and is an intrinsic attribute of its cytosolic domains. We obtained
the 3.2-A crystal structure of the oligomer of the Ire1 cytosolic domains in
complex with a kinase inhibitor that acts as a potent activator of the Ire1
RNase. The structure reveals a rod-shaped assembly that has no known precedence
among kinases. This assembly positions the kinase domain for
trans-autophosphorylation, orders the RNase domain, and creates an interaction
surface for binding of the mRNA substrate. Activation of Ire1 through
oligomerization expands the mechanistic repertoire of kinase-based signalling
receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07661 
PMCID: PMC2846394
PMID: 19079236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):745-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07581. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Counting RAD51 proteins disassembling from nucleoprotein filaments under tension.

van Mameren J(1), Modesti M, Kanaar R, Wyman C, Peterman EJ, Wuite GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Centre and Department of Physics and Astronomy, VU University, De
Boelelaan 1081, 1081 HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The central catalyst in eukaryotic ATP-dependent homologous recombination
consists of RAD51 proteins, polymerized around single-stranded DNA. This
nucleoprotein filament recognizes and invades a homologous duplex DNA segment.
After strand exchange, the nucleoprotein filament should disassemble so that the 
recombination process can be completed. The molecular mechanism of RAD51 filament
disassembly is poorly understood. Here we show, by combining optical tweezers
with single-molecule fluorescence microscopy and microfluidics, that disassembly 
of human RAD51 nucleoprotein filaments results from the interplay between ATP
hydrolysis and the release of the tension stored in the filament. By applying
external tension to the DNA, we found that disassembly slows down and can even be
stalled. We quantified the fluorescence of RAD51 patches and found that
disassembly occurs in bursts interspersed by long pauses. After relaxation of a
stalled complex, pauses were suppressed resulting in a large burst. These results
indicate that tension-dependent disassembly takes place only from filament ends, 
after tension-independent ATP hydrolysis. This integrative single-molecule
approach allowed us to dissect the mechanism of this principal homologous
recombination reaction step, which in turn clarifies how disassembly can be
influenced by accessory proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07581 
PMCID: PMC3871861
PMID: 19060884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):731-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07578. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Chlamydia causes fragmentation of the Golgi compartment to ensure reproduction.

Heuer D(1), Rejman Lipinski A, Machuy N, Karlas A, Wehrens A, Siedler F,
Brinkmann V, Meyer TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

The obligate intracellular bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis survives and
replicates within a membrane-bound vacuole, termed the inclusion, which
intercepts host exocytic pathways to obtain nutrients. Like many other
intracellular pathogens, C. trachomatis has a marked requirement for host cell
lipids, such as sphingolipids and cholesterol, produced in the endoplasmic
reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. However, the mechanisms by which intracellular
pathogens acquire host cell lipids are not well understood. In particular, no
host cell protein responsible for transporting Golgi-derived lipids to the
chlamydial inclusions has yet been identified. Here we show that Chlamydia
infection in human epithelial cells induces Golgi fragmentation to generate Golgi
ministacks surrounding the bacterial inclusion. Ministack formation is triggered 
by the proteolytic cleavage of the Golgi matrix protein golgin-84. Inhibition of 
golgin-84 truncation prevents Golgi fragmentation, causing a block in lipid
acquisition and maturation of C. trachomatis. Golgi fragmentation by means of
RNA-interference-mediated knockdown of distinct Golgi matrix proteins before
infection enhances bacterial maturation. Our data functionally connect
bacteria-induced golgin-84 cleavage, Golgi ministack formation, lipid acquisition
and intracellular pathogen growth. We show that C. trachomatis subverts the
structure and function of an entire host cell organelle for its own advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07578 
PMID: 19060882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):722-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07537. Epub 2008 Nov 2.

A human natural killer cell subset provides an innate source of IL-22 for mucosal
immunity.

Cella M(1), Fuchs A, Vermi W, Facchetti F, Otero K, Lennerz JK, Doherty JM, Mills
JC, Colonna M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Natural killer (NK) cells are classically viewed as lymphocytes that provide
innate surveillance against virally infected cells and tumour cells through the
release of cytolytic mediators and interferon (IFN)-gamma. In humans, blood
CD56(dim) NK cells specialize in the lysis of cell targets. In the lymph nodes,
CD56(bright) NK cells secrete IFN-gamma cooperating with dendritic cells and T
cells in the generation of adaptive responses. Here we report the
characterization of a human NK cell subset located in mucosa-associated lymphoid 
tissues, such as tonsils and Peyer's patches, which is hard-wired to secrete
interleukin (IL)-22, IL-26 and leukaemia inhibitory factor. These NK cells, which
we refer to as NK-22 cells, are triggered by acute exposure to IL-23. In vitro,
NK-22-secreted cytokines stimulate epithelial cells to secrete IL-10, proliferate
and express a variety of mitogenic and anti-apoptotic molecules. NK-22 cells are 
also found in mouse mucosa-associated lymphoid tissues and appear in the small
intestine lamina propria during bacterial infection, suggesting that NK-22 cells 
provide an innate source of IL-22 that may help constrain inflammation and
protect mucosal sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07537 
PMCID: PMC3772687
PMID: 18978771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):551-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07723.

The Sorghum bicolor genome and the diversification of grasses.

Paterson AH(1), Bowers JE, Bruggmann R, Dubchak I, Grimwood J, Gundlach H,
Haberer G, Hellsten U, Mitros T, Poliakov A, Schmutz J, Spannagl M, Tang H, Wang 
X, Wicker T, Bharti AK, Chapman J, Feltus FA, Gowik U, Grigoriev IV, Lyons E,
Maher CA, Martis M, Narechania A, Otillar RP, Penning BW, Salamov AA, Wang Y,
Zhang L, Carpita NC, Freeling M, Gingle AR, Hash CT, Keller B, Klein P, Kresovich
S, McCann MC, Ming R, Peterson DG, Mehboob-ur-Rahman, Ware D, Westhoff P, Mayer
KF, Messing J, Rokhsar DS.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Genome Mapping Laboratory, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602,
USA. paterson@uga.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):547-8.

Sorghum, an African grass related to sugar cane and maize, is grown for food,
feed, fibre and fuel. We present an initial analysis of the approximately
730-megabase Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench genome, placing approximately 98% of
genes in their chromosomal context using whole-genome shotgun sequence validated 
by genetic, physical and syntenic information. Genetic recombination is largely
confined to about one-third of the sorghum genome with gene order and density
similar to those of rice. Retrotransposon accumulation in recombinationally
recalcitrant heterochromatin explains the approximately 75% larger genome size of
sorghum compared with rice. Although gene and repetitive DNA distributions have
been preserved since palaeopolyploidization approximately 70 million years ago,
most duplicated gene sets lost one member before the sorghum-rice divergence.
Concerted evolution makes one duplicated chromosomal segment appear to be only a 
few million years old. About 24% of genes are grass-specific and 7% are
sorghum-specific. Recent gene and microRNA duplications may contribute to
sorghum's drought tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07723 
PMID: 19189423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):577-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07716.

Southern Ocean deep-water carbon export enhanced by natural iron fertilization.

Pollard RT(1), Salter I, Sanders RJ, Lucas MI, Moore CM, Mills RA, Statham PJ,
Allen JT, Baker AR, Bakker DC, Charette MA, Fielding S, Fones GR, French M,
Hickman AE, Holland RJ, Hughes JA, Jickells TD, Lampitt RS, Morris PJ, Nédélec
FH, Nielsdóttir M, Planquette H, Popova EE, Poulton AJ, Read JF, Seeyave S, Smith
T, Stinchcombe M, Taylor S, Thomalla S, Venables HJ, Williamson R, Zubkov MV.

Author information: 
(1)National Oceanography Centre Southampton, Natural Environment Research Council
and University of Southampton, European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.

The addition of iron to high-nutrient, low-chlorophyll regions induces
phytoplankton blooms that take up carbon. Carbon export from the surface layer
and, in particular, the ability of the ocean and sediments to sequester carbon
for many years remains, however, poorly quantified. Here we report data from the 
CROZEX experiment in the Southern Ocean, which was conducted to test the
hypothesis that the observed north-south gradient in phytoplankton concentrations
in the vicinity of the Crozet Islands is induced by natural iron fertilization
that results in enhanced organic carbon flux to the deep ocean. We report annual 
particulate carbon fluxes out of the surface layer, at three kilometres below the
ocean surface and to the ocean floor. We find that carbon fluxes from a highly
productive, naturally iron-fertilized region of the sub-Antarctic Southern Ocean 
are two to three times larger than the carbon fluxes from an adjacent
high-nutrient, low-chlorophyll area not fertilized by iron. Our findings support 
the hypothesis that increased iron supply to the glacial sub-Antarctic may have
directly enhanced carbon export to the deep ocean. The CROZEX sequestration
efficiency (the amount of carbon sequestered below the depth of winter mixing for
a given iron supply) of 8,600 mol mol(-1) was 18 times greater than that of a
phytoplankton bloom induced artificially by adding iron, but 77 times smaller
than that of another bloom initiated, like CROZEX, by a natural supply of iron.
Large losses of purposefully added iron can explain the lower efficiency of the
induced bloom(6). The discrepancy between the blooms naturally supplied with iron
may result in part from an underestimate of horizontal iron supply.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07716 
PMID: 19177128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):573-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07734.

Total synthesis of a chlorosulpholipid cytotoxin associated with seafood
poisoning.

Nilewski C(1), Geisser RW, Carreira EM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium für Organische Chemie, ETH Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):548-9.

Each year, there are many cases of seafood poisoning in humans worldwide. Among
the various toxins isolated that contribute to these poisonings, the
chlorosulpholipids are particularly intriguing because of their structural and
stereochemical complexity. The mechanism of biological activity remains unknown
and, although chlorosulpholipids are associated with membranes in the organisms
from which they are isolated, little is understood about their role within
biological membranes. The lack of availability of the natural products has
impaired more in-depth biochemical studies. So far, none of the
chlorosulpholipids have been obtained from total synthesis, and efficient routes 
to their synthesis would be desirable for the preparation of material for
pharmacological characterization and proper evaluation of the risk to human
health. Despite the notable advances in the science of organic synthesis,
reliable methods for stereoselective construction of polychlorinated acyclic
substrates are lacking, although some preliminary investigations have appeared.
Here we report the synthesis of a chlorosulpholipid cytotoxin, leading to
confirmation of the proposed structure and the discovery of unanticipated
reactivity of polychlorinated hydrocarbons. The concise synthetic approach should
enable the preparation of material in sufficient quantities to facilitate
biological studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07734 
PMID: 19177127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):569-72. doi: 10.1038/nature07714.

(pi, pi) electronic order in iron arsenide superconductors.

Zabolotnyy VB(1), Inosov DS, Evtushinsky DV, Koitzsch A, Kordyuk AA, Sun GL, Park
JT, Haug D, Hinkov V, Boris AV, Lin CT, Knupfer M, Yaresko AN, Büchner B,
Varykhalov A, Follath R, Borisenko SV.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Solid State Research, IFW-Dresden, PO Box 270116, 01171 Dresden,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):546-7.

The distribution of valence electrons in metals usually follows the symmetry of
the underlying ionic lattice. Modulations of this distribution often occur when
those electrons are not stable with respect to a new electronic order, such as
spin or charge density waves. Electron density waves have been observed in many
families of superconductors, and are often considered to be essential for
superconductivity to exist. Recent measurements seem to show that the properties 
of the iron pnictides are in good agreement with band structure calculations that
do not include additional ordering, implying no relation between density waves
and superconductivity in these materials. Here we report that the electronic
structure of Ba(1-x)K(x)Fe(2)As(2) is in sharp disagreement with those band
structure calculations, and instead reveals a reconstruction characterized by a
(pi, pi) wavevector. This electronic order coexists with superconductivity and
persists up to room temperature (300 K).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07714 
PMID: 19177126 


826. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):565-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07676.

Nearly isotropic superconductivity in (Ba,K)Fe(2)As(2).

Yuan HQ(1), Singleton J, Balakirev FF, Baily SA, Chen GF, Luo JL, Wang NL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310027, China. 
hqyuan@zju.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):546-7.

Superconductivity was recently observed in iron-arsenic-based compounds with a
superconducting transition temperature (T(c)) as high as 56 K, naturally raising 
comparisons with the high-T(c) copper oxides. The copper oxides have layered
crystal structures with quasi-two-dimensional electronic properties, which led to
speculation that reduced dimensionality (that is, extreme anisotropy) is a
necessary prerequisite for superconductivity at temperatures above 40 K (refs 8, 
9). Early work on the iron-arsenic compounds seemed to support this view. Here we
report measurements of the electrical resistivity in single crystals of
(Ba,K)Fe(2)As(2) in a magnetic field up to 60 T. We find that the superconducting
properties are in fact quite isotropic, being rather independent of the direction
of the applied magnetic fields at low temperature. Such behaviour is strikingly
different from all previously known layered superconductors, and indicates that
reduced dimensionality in these compounds is not a prerequisite for
'high-temperature' superconductivity. We suggest that this situation arises
because of the underlying electronic structure of the iron-arsenic compounds,
which appears to be much more three dimensional than that of the copper oxides.
Extrapolations of low-field single-crystal data incorrectly suggest a high
anisotropy and a greatly exaggerated zero-temperature upper critical field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07676 
PMID: 19177125 


827. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):562-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07649.

Rapid heating of the atmosphere of an extrasolar planet.

Laughlin G(1), Deming D, Langton J, Kasen D, Vogt S, Butler P, Rivera E,
Meschiari S.

Author information: 
(1)UCO/Lick Observatory, University of California, Santa Cruz, California 95064, 
USA. laughlin@ucolick.org

Near-infrared observations of more than a dozen 'hot-Jupiter' extrasolar planets 
have now been reported. These planets display a wide diversity of properties, yet
all are believed to have had their spin periods tidally spin-synchronized with
their orbital periods, resulting in permanent star-facing hemispheres and surface
flow patterns that are most likely in equilibrium. Planets in significantly
eccentric orbits can enable direct measurements of global heating that are
largely independent of the details of the hydrodynamic flow. Here we report
8-microm photometric observations of the planet HD 80606b during a 30-hour
interval bracketing the periastron passage of its extremely eccentric 111.4-day
orbit. As the planet received its strongest irradiation (828 times larger than
the flux received at apastron) its maximum 8-microm brightness temperature
increased from approximately 800 K to approximately 1,500 K over a six-hour
period. We also detected a secondary eclipse for the planet, which implies an
orbital inclination of i approximately 90 degrees , fixes the planetary mass at
four times the mass of Jupiter, and constrains the planet's tidal luminosity. Our
measurement of the global heating rate indicates that the radiative time constant
at the planet's 8-microm photosphere is approximately 4.5 h, in comparison with
3-5 days in Earth's stratosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07649 
PMID: 19177124 


828. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):557-61. doi: 10.1038/nature07665. Epub 2009 Jan 11.

Adaptive immune features of natural killer cells.

Sun JC(1), Beilke JN, Lanier LL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology and the Cancer Research Institute,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 26;457(7233):1168.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2009 Mar;19(3):277-8.
    Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):544-5.

In an adaptive immune response, naive T cells proliferate during infection and
generate long-lived memory cells that undergo secondary expansion after a repeat 
encounter with the same pathogen. Although natural killer (NK) cells have
traditionally been classified as cells of the innate immune system, they share
many similarities with cytotoxic T lymphocytes. We use a mouse model of
cytomegalovirus infection to show that, like T cells, NK cells bearing the
virus-specific Ly49H receptor proliferate 100-fold in the spleen and 1,000-fold
in the liver after infection. After a contraction phase, Ly49H-positive NK cells 
reside in lymphoid and non-lymphoid organs for several months. These
self-renewing 'memory' NK cells rapidly degranulate and produce cytokines on
reactivation. Adoptive transfer of these NK cells into naive animals followed by 
viral challenge results in a robust secondary expansion and protective immunity. 
These findings reveal properties of NK cells that were previously attributed only
to cells of the adaptive immune system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07665 
PMCID: PMC2674434
PMID: 19136945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):603-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07589. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Prominin 1 marks intestinal stem cells that are susceptible to neoplastic
transformation.

Zhu L(1), Gibson P, Currle DS, Tong Y, Richardson RJ, Bayazitov IT, Poppleton H, 
Zakharenko S, Ellison DW, Gilbertson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2009 Feb 3;15(2):87-9.

Cancer stem cells are remarkably similar to normal stem cells: both self-renew,
are multipotent and express common surface markers, for example, prominin 1
(PROM1, also called CD133). What remains unclear is whether cancer stem cells are
the direct progeny of mutated stem cells or more mature cells that reacquire stem
cell properties during tumour formation. Answering this question will require
knowledge of whether normal stem cells are susceptible to cancer-causing
mutations; however, this has proved difficult to test because the identity of
most adult tissue stem cells is not known. Here, using an inducible Cre, nuclear 
LacZ reporter allele knocked into the Prom1 locus (Prom1(C-L)), we show that
Prom1 is expressed in a variety of developing and adult tissues. Lineage-tracing 
studies of adult Prom1(+/C-L) mice containing the Rosa26-YFP reporter allele
showed that Prom1(+) cells are located at the base of crypts in the small
intestine, co-express Lgr5 (ref. 2), generate the entire intestinal epithelium,
and are therefore the small intestinal stem cell. Prom1 was reported recently to 
mark cancer stem cells of human intestinal tumours that arise frequently as a
consequence of aberrant wingless (Wnt) signalling. Activation of endogenous Wnt
signalling in Prom1(+/C-L) mice containing a Cre-dependent mutant allele of
beta-catenin (Ctnnb1(lox(ex3))) resulted in a gross disruption of crypt
architecture and a disproportionate expansion of Prom1(+) cells at the crypt
base. Lineage tracing demonstrated that the progeny of these cells replaced the
mucosa of the entire small intestine with neoplastic tissue that was
characterized by focal high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and crypt adenoma
formation. Although all neoplastic cells arose from Prom1(+) cells in these mice,
only 7% of tumour cells retained Prom1 expression. Our data indicate that Prom1
marks stem cells in the adult small intestine that are susceptible to
transformation into tumours retaining a fraction of mutant Prom1(+) tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07589 
PMCID: PMC2633030
PMID: 19092805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature07602. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Crypt stem cells as the cells-of-origin of intestinal cancer.

Barker N(1), Ridgway RA, van Es JH, van de Wetering M, Begthel H, van den Born M,
Danenberg E, Clarke AR, Sansom OJ, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute for Developmental Biology and Stem Cell Research,
Uppsalalaan 8, 3584CT Utrecht & University Medical Centre Utrecht, Netherlands.

Intestinal cancer is initiated by Wnt-pathway-activating mutations in genes such 
as adenomatous polyposis coli (APC). As in most cancers, the cell of origin has
remained elusive. In a previously established Lgr5 (leucine-rich-repeat
containing G-protein-coupled receptor 5) knockin mouse model, a
tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase is expressed in long-lived intestinal stem
cells. Here we show that deletion of Apc in these stem cells leads to their
transformation within days. Transformed stem cells remain located at crypt
bottoms, while fuelling a growing microadenoma. These microadenomas show
unimpeded growth and develop into macroscopic adenomas within 3-5weeks. The
distribution of Lgr5(+) cells within stem-cell-derived adenomas indicates that a 
stem cell/progenitor cell hierarchy is maintained in early neoplastic lesions.
When Apc is deleted in short-lived transit-amplifying cells using a different cre
mouse, the growth of the induced microadenomas rapidly stalls. Even after
30weeks, large adenomas are very rare in these mice. We conclude that
stem-cell-specific loss of Apc results in progressively growing neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07602 
PMID: 19092804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):612-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07580. Epub 2008 Dec 14.

RAD6-RAD18-RAD5-pathway-dependent tolerance to chronic low-dose ultraviolet
light.

Hishida T(1), Kubota Y, Carr AM, Iwasaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka University, 3-1 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. hishida@biken.osaka-u.ac.jp

In nature, organisms are exposed to chronic low-dose ultraviolet light (CLUV) as 
opposed to the acute high doses common to laboratory experiments. Analysis of the
cellular response to acute high-dose exposure has delineated the importance of
direct DNA repair by the nucleotide excision repair pathway and for
checkpoint-induced cell cycle arrest in promoting cell survival. Here we examine 
the response of yeast cells to CLUV and identify a key role for the
RAD6-RAD18-RAD5 error-free postreplication repair (RAD6 error-free PRR) pathway
in promoting cell growth and survival. We show that loss of the RAD6 error-free
PRR pathway results in DNA-damage-checkpoint-induced G2 arrest in CLUV-exposed
cells, whereas wild-type and nucleotide-excision-repair-deficient cells are
largely unaffected. Cell cycle arrest in the absence of the RAD6 error-free PRR
pathway was not caused by a repair defect or by the accumulation of
ultraviolet-induced photoproducts. Notably, we observed increased replication
protein A (RPA)- and Rad52-yellow fluorescent protein foci in the CLUV-exposed
rad18Delta cells and demonstrated that Rad52-mediated homologous recombination is
required for the viability of the rad18Delta cells after release from
CLUV-induced G2 arrest. These and other data presented suggest that, in response 
to environmental levels of ultraviolet exposure, the RAD6 error-free PRR pathway 
promotes replication of damaged templates without the generation of extensive
single-stranded DNA regions. Thus, the error-free PRR pathway is specifically
important during chronic low-dose ultraviolet exposure to prevent
counter-productive DNA checkpoint activation and allow cells to proliferate
normally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07580 
PMID: 19079240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):581-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07588. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Detoxification of sulphidic African shelf waters by blooming chemolithotrophs.

Lavik G(1), Stührmann T, Brüchert V, Van der Plas A, Mohrholz V, Lam P, Mussmann 
M, Fuchs BM, Amann R, Lass U, Kuypers MM.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, Celsiusstrasse 1, D-28359
Bremen, Germany.

Coastal waters support approximately 90 per cent of global fisheries and are
therefore an important food reserve for our planet. Eutrophication of these
waters, due to human activity, leads to severe oxygen depletion and the episodic 
occurrence of hydrogen sulphide-toxic to multi-cellular life-with disastrous
consequences for coastal ecosytems. Here we show that an area of approximately
7,000 km(2) of African shelf, covered by sulphidic water, was detoxified by
blooming bacteria that oxidized the biologically harmful sulphide to
environmentally harmless colloidal sulphur and sulphate. Combined chemical
analyses, stoichiometric modelling, isotopic incubations, comparative 16S
ribosomal RNA, functional gene sequence analyses and fluorescence in situ
hybridization indicate that the detoxification proceeded by chemolithotrophic
oxidation of sulphide with nitrate and was mainly catalysed by two discrete
populations of gamma- and epsilon-proteobacteria. Chemolithotrophic bacteria,
accounting for approximately 20 per cent of the bacterioplankton in sulphidic
waters, created a buffer zone between the toxic sulphidic subsurface waters and
the oxic surface waters, where fish and other nekton live. This is the first time
that large-scale detoxification of sulphidic waters by chemolithotrophs has been 
observed in an open-ocean system. The data suggest that sulphide can be
completely consumed by bacteria in the subsurface waters and, thus, can be
overlooked by remote sensing or monitoring of shallow coastal waters.
Consequently, sulphidic bottom waters on continental shelves may be more common
than previously believed, and could therefore have an important but as yet
neglected effect on benthic communities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07588 
PMID: 19078958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):599-602. doi: 10.1038/nature07586. Epub 2008 Dec
10.

Frequent somatic mutations of GNAQ in uveal melanoma and blue naevi.

Van Raamsdonk CD(1), Bezrookove V, Green G, Bauer J, Gaugler L, O'Brien JM,
Simpson EM, Barsh GS, Bastian BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T1Z3, Canada.

BRAF and NRAS are common targets for somatic mutations in benign and malignant
neoplasms that arise from melanocytes situated in epithelial structures, and lead
to constitutive activation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway.
However, BRAF and NRAS mutations are absent in a number of other melanocytic
neoplasms in which the equivalent oncogenic events are currently unknown. Here we
report frequent somatic mutations in the heterotrimeric G protein alpha-subunit, 
GNAQ, in blue naevi (83%) and ocular melanoma of the uvea (46%). The mutations
occur exclusively in codon 209 in the Ras-like domain and result in constitutive 
activation, turning GNAQ into a dominant acting oncogene. Our results demonstrate
an alternative route to MAP kinase activation in melanocytic neoplasia, providing
new opportunities for therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07586 
PMCID: PMC2696133
PMID: 19078957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):594-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07568. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli EtpA mediates adhesion between flagella and host
cells.

Roy K(1), Hilliard GM, Hamilton DJ, Luo J, Ostmann MM, Fleckenstein JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 956
Court Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38163, USA.

Adhesion to epithelial cells and flagella-mediated motility are critical
virulence traits for many Gram-negative pathogens, including enterotoxigenic
Escherichia coli (ETEC), a major cause of diarrhoea in travellers and children in
developing countries. Many flagellated pathogens export putative adhesins
belonging to the two-partner secretion (TPS) family. However, the actual function
of these adhesins remains largely undefined. Here we demonstrate that EtpA, a TPS
exoprotein adhesin of enterotoxigenic E. coli, mimics and interacts with highly
conserved regions of flagellin, the major subunit of flagella, and that these
interactions are critical for adherence and intestinal colonization. Although
conserved regions of flagellin are mostly buried in the flagellar shaft, our
results suggest that they are at least transiently exposed at the tips of
flagella where they capture EtpA adhesin molecules for presentation to eukaryotic
receptors. Similarity of EtpA to molecules encoded by other motile pathogens
suggests a potential common pattern for bacterial adhesion, whereas participation
of conserved regions of flagellin in adherence has implications for development
of vaccines for Gram-negative pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07568 
PMCID: PMC2646463
PMID: 19060885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):585-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07548. Epub 2008 Dec 7.

Allergenicity resulting from functional mimicry of a Toll-like receptor complex
protein.

Trompette A(1), Divanovic S, Visintin A, Blanchard C, Hegde RS, Madan R, Thorne
PS, Wills-Karp M, Gioannini TL, Weiss JP, Karp CL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Immunology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center and the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio
45229, USA.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2009 May;5(3):233-7.

Aeroallergy results from maladaptive immune responses to ubiquitous, otherwise
innocuous environmental proteins. Although the proteins targeted by aeroallergic 
responses represent a tiny fraction of the airborne proteins humans are exposed
to, allergenicity is a quite public phenomenon-the same proteins typically behave
as aeroallergens across the human population. Why particular proteins tend to act
as allergens in susceptible hosts is a fundamental mechanistic question that
remains largely unanswered. The main house-dust-mite allergen, Der p 2, has
structural homology with MD-2 (also known as LY96), the lipopolysaccharide
(LPS)-binding component of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 signalling complex.
Here we show that Der p 2 also has functional homology, facilitating signalling
through direct interactions with the TLR4 complex, and reconstituting LPS-driven 
TLR4 signalling in the absence of MD-2. Mirroring this, airway sensitization and 
challenge with Der p 2 led to experimental allergic asthma in wild type and
MD-2-deficient, but not TLR4-deficient, mice. Our results indicate that Der p 2
tends to be targeted by adaptive immune responses because of its auto-adjuvant
properties. The fact that other members of the MD-2-like lipid-binding family are
allergens, and that most defined major allergens are thought to be lipid-binding 
proteins, suggests that intrinsic adjuvant activity by such proteins and their
accompanying lipid cargo may have some generality as a mechanism underlying the
phenomenon of allergenicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07548 
PMCID: PMC2843411
PMID: 19060881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Nature. 2009 Jan 29;457(7229):589-93. doi: 10.1038/nature07564. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

WNT11 acts as a directional cue to organize the elongation of early muscle
fibres.

Gros J(1), Serralbo O, Marcelle C.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Institute of Marseille Luminy (IBDML), Université de la 
Méditerranée, CNRS UMR 6216, Campus de Luminy, case 907, 13288 Marseille Cedex
09, France.

The early vertebrate skeletal muscle is a well-organized tissue in which the
primitive muscle fibres, the myocytes, are all parallel and aligned along the
antero-posterior axis of the embryo. How myofibres acquire their orientation
during development is unknown. Here we show that during early chick myogenesis
WNT11 has an essential role in the oriented elongation of the myocytes. We find
that the neural tube, known to drive WNT11 expression in the medial border of
somites, is necessary and sufficient to orient myocyte elongation. We then show
that the specific inhibition of WNT11 function in somites leads to the
disorganization of myocytes. We establish that WNT11 mediates this effect through
the evolutionary conserved planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway, downstream of the 
WNT/beta-catenin-dependent pathway, required to initiate the myogenic program of 
myocytes and WNT11 expression. Finally, we demonstrate that a localized ectopic
source of WNT11 can markedly change the orientation of myocytes, indicating that 
WNT11 acts as a directional cue in this process. All together, these data show
that the sequential action of the WNT/PCP and the WNT/beta-catenin pathways is
necessary for the formation of fully functional embryonic muscle fibres. This
study also provides evidence that WNTs can act as instructive cues to regulate
the PCP pathway in vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07564 
PMID: 18987628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):475-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07664.

Anticipatory haemodynamic signals in sensory cortex not predicted by local
neuronal activity.

Sirotin YB(1), Das A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):387-8.

Haemodynamic signals underlying functional brain imaging (for example, functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)) are assumed to reflect metabolic demand
generated by local neuronal activity, with equal increases in haemodynamic signal
implying equal increases in the underlying neuronal activity. Few studies have
compared neuronal and haemodynamic signals in alert animals to test for this
assumed correspondence. Here we present evidence that brings this assumption into
question. Using a dual-wavelength optical imaging technique that independently
measures cerebral blood volume and oxygenation, continuously, in alert behaving
monkeys, we find two distinct components to the haemodynamic signal in the alert 
animals' primary visual cortex (V1). One component is reliably predictable from
neuronal responses generated by visual input. The other component-of almost
comparable strength-is a hitherto unknown signal that entrains to task structure 
independently of visual input or of standard neural predictors of haemodynamics. 
This latter component shows predictive timing, with increases of cerebral blood
volume in anticipation of trial onsets even in darkness. This trial-locked
haemodynamic signal could be due to an accompanying V1 arterial pumping
mechanism, closely matched in time, with peaks of arterial dilation entrained to 
predicted trial onsets. These findings (tested in two animals) challenge the
current understanding of the link between brain haemodynamics and local neuronal 
activity. They also suggest the existence of a novel preparatory mechanism in the
brain that brings additional arterial blood to cortex in anticipation of expected
tasks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07664 
PMCID: PMC2705195
PMID: 19158795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):459-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07669.

Warming of the Antarctic ice-sheet surface since the 1957 International
Geophysical Year.

Steig EJ(1), Schneider DP, Rutherford SD, Mann ME, Comiso JC, Shindell DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Space Sciences and Quaternary Research Center,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
steig@ess.washington.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):766.

Assessments of Antarctic temperature change have emphasized the contrast between 
strong warming of the Antarctic Peninsula and slight cooling of the Antarctic
continental interior in recent decades. This pattern of temperature change has
been attributed to the increased strength of the circumpolar westerlies, largely 
in response to changes in stratospheric ozone. This picture, however, is
substantially incomplete owing to the sparseness and short duration of the
observations. Here we show that significant warming extends well beyond the
Antarctic Peninsula to cover most of West Antarctica, an area of warming much
larger than previously reported. West Antarctic warming exceeds 0.1 degrees C per
decade over the past 50 years, and is strongest in winter and spring. Although
this is partly offset by autumn cooling in East Antarctica, the continent-wide
average near-surface temperature trend is positive. Simulations using a general
circulation model reproduce the essential features of the spatial pattern and the
long-term trend, and we suggest that neither can be attributed directly to
increases in the strength of the westerlies. Instead, regional changes in
atmospheric circulation and associated changes in sea surface temperature and sea
ice are required to explain the enhanced warming in West Antarctica.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07669 
PMID: 19158794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):455-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07627.

High-Q surface-plasmon-polariton whispering-gallery microcavity.

Min B(1), Ostby E, Sorger V, Ulin-Avila E, Yang L, Zhang X, Vahala K.

Author information: 
(1)Thomas J. Watson Laboratory of Applied Physics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) are electron density waves excited at the
interfaces between metals and dielectric materials. Owing to their highly
localized electromagnetic fields, they may be used for the transport and
manipulation of photons on subwavelength scales. In particular, plasmonic
resonant cavities represent an application that could exploit this field
compression to create ultrasmall-mode-volume devices. A key figure of merit in
this regard is the ratio of cavity quality factor, Q (related to the dissipation 
rate of photons confined to the cavity), to cavity mode volume, V (refs 10, 11). 
However, plasmonic cavity Q factors have so far been limited to values less than 
100 both for visible and near-infrared wavelengths. Significantly, such values
are far below the theoretically achievable Q factors for plasmonic resonant
structures. Here we demonstrate a high-Q SPP whispering-gallery microcavity that 
is made by coating the surface of a high-Q silica microresonator with a thin
layer of a noble metal. Using this structure, Q factors of 1,376 +/- 65 can be
achieved in the near infrared for surface-plasmonic whispering-gallery modes at
room temperature. This nearly ideal value, which is close to the theoretical
metal-loss-limited Q factor, is attributed to the suppression and minimization of
radiation and scattering losses that are made possible by the geometrical
structure and the fabrication method. The SPP eigenmodes, as well as the
dielectric eigenmodes, are confined within the whispering-gallery microcavity and
accessed evanescently using a single strand of low-loss, tapered optical
waveguide. This coupling scheme provides a convenient way of selectively exciting
and probing confined SPP eigenmodes. Up to 49.7 per cent of input power is
coupled by phase-matching control between the microcavity SPP and the tapered
fibre eigenmodes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07627 
PMID: 19158793 


840. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):451-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07648.

Cold streams in early massive hot haloes as the main mode of galaxy formation.

Dekel A(1), Birnboim Y, Engel G, Freundlich J, Goerdt T, Mumcuoglu M, Neistein E,
Pichon C, Teyssier R, Zinger E.

Author information: 
(1)Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.
dekel@phys.huji.ac.il

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):388-9.

Massive galaxies in the young Universe, ten billion years ago, formed stars at
surprising intensities. Although this is commonly attributed to violent mergers, 
the properties of many of these galaxies are incompatible with such events,
showing gas-rich, clumpy, extended rotating disks not dominated by spheroids.
Cosmological simulations and clustering theory are used to explore how these
galaxies acquired their gas. Here we report that they are 'stream-fed galaxies', 
formed from steady, narrow, cold gas streams that penetrate the shock-heated
media of massive dark matter haloes. A comparison with the observed abundance of 
star-forming galaxies implies that most of the input gas must rapidly convert to 
stars. One-third of the stream mass is in gas clumps leading to mergers of mass
ratio greater than 1:10, and the rest is in smoother flows. With a merger duty
cycle of 0.1, three-quarters of the galaxies forming stars at a given rate are
fed by smooth streams. The rarer, submillimetre galaxies that form stars even
more intensely are largely merger-induced starbursts. Unlike destructive mergers,
the streams are likely to keep the rotating disk configuration intact, although
turbulent and broken into giant star-forming clumps that merge into a central
spheroid. This stream-driven scenario for the formation of discs and spheroids is
an alternative to the merger picture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07648 
PMID: 19158792 


841. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):441-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07685.

The nature of the globular- to fibrous-actin transition.

Oda T(1), Iwasa M, Aihara T, Maéda Y, Narita A.

Author information: 
(1)X-ray Structural Analysis Research Team, RIKEN SPring-8 Center, RIKEN Harima
Institute, 1-1-1, Kouto, Sayo, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan. toda@spring8.or.jp

Erratum in
    Nature. 2009 Sep 24;461(7263):550.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):389-90.

Actin plays crucial parts in cell motility through a dynamic process driven by
polymerization and depolymerization, that is, the globular (G) to fibrous (F)
actin transition. Although our knowledge about the actin-based cellular functions
and the molecules that regulate the G- to F-actin transition is growing, the
structural aspects of the transition remain enigmatic. We created a model of
F-actin using X-ray fibre diffraction intensities obtained from well oriented
sols of rabbit skeletal muscle F-actin to 3.3 A in the radial direction and 5.6 A
along the equator. Here we show that the G- to F-actin conformational transition 
is a simple relative rotation of the two major domains by about 20 degrees. As a 
result of the domain rotation, the actin molecule in the filament is flat. The
flat form is essential for the formation of stable, helical F-actin. Our F-actin 
structure model provides the basis for understanding actin polymerization as well
as its molecular interactions with actin-binding proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07685 
PMID: 19158791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):435-40. doi: 10.1038/nature07675.

Changes in the phase of the annual cycle of surface temperature.

Stine AR(1), Huybers P, Fung IY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. zan@atmos.berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):391-2.

The annual cycle in the Earth's surface temperature is extremely large-comparable
in magnitude to the glacial-interglacial cycles over most of the planet. Trends
in the phase and the amplitude of the annual cycle have been observed, but the
causes and significance of these changes remain poorly understood-in part because
we lack an understanding of the natural variability. Here we show that the phase 
of the annual cycle of surface temperature over extratropical land shifted
towards earlier seasons by 1.7 days between 1954 and 2007; this change is highly 
anomalous with respect to earlier variations, which we interpret as being
indicative of the natural range. Significant changes in the amplitude of the
annual cycle are also observed between 1954 and 2007. These shifts in the annual 
cycles appear to be related, in part, to changes in the northern annular mode of 
climate variability, although the land phase shift is significantly larger than
that predicted by trends in the northern annular mode alone. Few of the climate
models presented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reproduce the
observed decrease in amplitude and none reproduce the shift towards earlier
seasons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07675 
PMID: 19158790 


843. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):426-33. doi: 10.1038/nature07758.

The promises and pitfalls of RNA-interference-based therapeutics.

Castanotto D(1), Rossi JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and City of Hope Graduate School of Biological
Sciences, Beckman Research Institute of the City of Hope, Duarte, California
91010, USA.

The discovery that gene expression can be controlled by the Watson-Crick
base-pairing of small RNAs with messenger RNAs containing complementary sequence 
- a process known as RNA interference - has markedly advanced our understanding
of eukaryotic gene regulation and function. The ability of short RNA sequences to
modulate gene expression has provided a powerful tool with which to study gene
function and is set to revolutionize the treatment of disease. Remarkably,
despite being just one decade from its discovery, the phenomenon is already being
used therapeutically in human clinical trials, and biotechnology companies that
focus on RNA-interference-based therapeutics are already publicly traded.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07758 
PMCID: PMC2702667
PMID: 19158789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):421-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07757.

Viral and cellular messenger RNA targets of viral microRNAs.

Cullen BR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics & Microbiology, Center for Virology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
culle002@mc.duke.edu

Given the propensity of viruses to co-opt cellular pathways and activities for
their benefit, it is perhaps not surprising that several viruses have now been
shown to reshape the cellular environment by reprogramming the host's
RNA-interference machinery. In particular, microRNAs are produced by the various 
members of the herpesvirus family during both the latent stage of the viral life 
cycle and the lytic (or productive) stage. Emerging data suggest that viral
microRNAs are particularly important for regulating the transition from latent to
lytic replication and for attenuating antiviral immune responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07757 
PMCID: PMC3074184
PMID: 19158788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):413-20. doi: 10.1038/nature07756.

Small RNAs in transcriptional gene silencing and genome defence.

Moazed D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. danesh_moazed@hms.harvard.edu

Small RNA molecules of about 20-30 nucleotides have emerged as powerful
regulators of gene expression and genome stability. Studies in fission yeast and 
multicellular organisms suggest that effector complexes, directed by small RNAs, 
target nascent chromatin-bound non-coding RNAs and recruit chromatin-modifying
complexes. Interactions between small RNAs and nascent non-coding transcripts
thus reveal a new mechanism for targeting chromatin-modifying complexes to
specific chromosome regions and suggest possibilities for how the resultant
chromatin states may be inherited during the process of chromosome duplication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07756 
PMCID: PMC3246369
PMID: 19158787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):405-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07755.

A three-dimensional view of the molecular machinery of RNA interference.

Jinek M(1), Doudna JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA.

In eukaryotes, small non-coding RNAs regulate gene expression, helping to control
cellular metabolism, growth and differentiation, to maintain genome integrity,
and to combat viruses and mobile genetic elements. These pathways involve two
specialized ribonucleases that control the production and function of small
regulatory RNAs. The enzyme Dicer cleaves double-stranded RNA precursors,
generating short interfering RNAs and microRNAs in the cytoplasm. These small
RNAs are transferred to Argonaute proteins, which guide the sequence-specific
silencing of messenger RNAs that contain complementary sequences by either
enzymatically cleaving the mRNA or repressing its translation. The molecular
structures of Dicer and the Argonaute proteins, free and bound to small RNAs,
have offered exciting insights into the molecular mechanisms that are central to 
RNA silencing pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07755 
PMID: 19158786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):396-404. doi: 10.1038/nature07754.

On the road to reading the RNA-interference code.

Siomi H(1), Siomi MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

The finding that sequence-specific gene silencing occurs in response to the
presence of double-stranded RNAs has had an enormous impact on biology,
uncovering an unsuspected level of regulation of gene expression. This process,
known as RNA interference (RNAi) or RNA silencing, involves small non-coding
RNAs, which associate with nuclease-containing regulatory complexes and then pair
with complementary messenger RNA targets, thereby preventing the expression of
these mRNAs. Remarkable progress has been made towards understanding the
underlying mechanisms of RNAi, raising the prospect of deciphering the 'RNAi
code' that, like transcription factors, allows the fine-tuning and networking of 
complex suites of gene activity, thereby specifying cellular physiology and
development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07754 
PMID: 19158785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):446-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07637. Epub 2009 Jan 7.

Intersubunit coordination in a homomeric ring ATPase.

Moffitt JR(1), Chemla YR, Aathavan K, Grimes S, Jardine PJ, Anderson DL,
Bustamante C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Jason L. Choy Laboratory of Single Molecule
Biophysics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):392-3.

Homomeric ring ATPases perform many vital and varied tasks in the cell, ranging
from chromosome segregation to protein degradation. Here we report the direct
observation of the intersubunit coordination and step size of such a ring ATPase,
the double-stranded-DNA packaging motor in the bacteriophage phi29. Using
high-resolution optical tweezers, we find that packaging occurs in increments of 
10 base pairs (bp). Statistical analysis of the preceding dwell times reveals
that multiple ATPs bind during each dwell, and application of high force reveals 
that these 10-bp increments are composed of four 2.5-bp steps. These results
indicate that the hydrolysis cycles of the individual subunits are highly
coordinated by means of a mechanism novel for ring ATPases. Furthermore, a step
size that is a non-integer number of base pairs demands new models for motor-DNA 
interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07637 
PMCID: PMC2716090
PMID: 19129763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):490-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07547. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Endochondral ossification is required for haematopoietic stem-cell niche
formation.

Chan CK(1), Chen CC, Luppen CA, Kim JB, DeBoer AT, Wei K, Helms JA, Kuo CJ, Kraft
DL, Weissman IL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Developmental Biology and Institute for Stem Cell
Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University, California, USA.
chazchan@stanford.edu

Little is known about the formation of niches, local micro-environments required 
for stem-cell maintenance. Here we develop an in vivo assay for adult
haematopoietic stem-cell (HSC) niche formation. With this assay, we identified a 
population of progenitor cells with surface markers
CD45(-)Tie2(-)alpha(V)(+)CD105(+)Thy1.1(-) (CD105(+)Thy1(-)) that, when sorted
from 15.5 days post-coitum fetal bones and transplanted under the adult mouse
kidney capsule, could recruit host-derived blood vessels, produce donor-derived
ectopic bones through a cartilage intermediate and generate a marrow cavity
populated by host-derived long-term reconstituting HSC (LT-HSC). In contrast,
CD45(-)Tie2(-)alpha(V)(+)CD105(+)Thy1(+) (CD105(+)Thy1(+)) fetal bone progenitors
form bone that does not contain a marrow cavity. Suppressing expression of
factors involved in endochondral ossification, such as osterix and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF), inhibited niche generation. CD105(+)Thy1(-)
progenitor populations derived from regions of the fetal mandible or calvaria
that do not undergo endochondral ossification formed only bone without marrow in 
our assay. Collectively, our data implicate endochondral ossification, bone
formation that proceeds through a cartilage intermediate, as a requirement for
adult HSC niche formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07547 
PMCID: PMC2648141
PMID: 19078959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):463-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07532. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

A simple model of bipartite cooperation for ecological and organizational
networks.

Saavedra S(1), Reed-Tsochas F, Uzzi B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PJ, UK.

In theoretical ecology, simple stochastic models that satisfy two basic
conditions about the distribution of niche values and feeding ranges have proved 
successful in reproducing the overall structural properties of real food webs,
using species richness and connectance as the only input parameters. Recently,
more detailed models have incorporated higher levels of constraint in order to
reproduce the actual links observed in real food webs. Here, building on previous
stochastic models of consumer-resource interactions between species, we propose a
highly parsimonious model that can reproduce the overall bipartite structure of
cooperative partner-partner interactions, as exemplified by plant-animal
mutualistic networks. Our stochastic model of bipartite cooperation uses simple
specialization and interaction rules, and only requires three empirical input
parameters. We test the bipartite cooperation model on ten large pollination data
sets that have been compiled in the literature, and find that it successfully
replicates the degree distribution, nestedness and modularity of the empirical
networks. These properties are regarded as key to understanding cooperation in
mutualistic networks. We also apply our model to an extensive data set of two
classes of company engaged in joint production in the garment industry. Using the
same metrics, we find that the network of manufacturer-contractor interactions
exhibits similar structural patterns to plant-animal pollination networks. This
surprising correspondence between ecological and organizational networks suggests
that the simple rules of cooperation that generate bipartite networks may be
generic, and could prove relevant in many different domains, ranging from
biological systems to human society.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07532 
PMID: 19052545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):480-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07540. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

A core gut microbiome in obese and lean twins.

Turnbaugh PJ(1), Hamady M, Yatsunenko T, Cantarel BL, Duncan A, Ley RE, Sogin ML,
Jones WJ, Roe BA, Affourtit JP, Egholm M, Henrissat B, Heath AC, Knight R, Gordon
JI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine, St
Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2009 Apr;27(4):344-6.

The human distal gut harbours a vast ensemble of microbes (the microbiota) that
provide important metabolic capabilities, including the ability to extract energy
from otherwise indigestible dietary polysaccharides. Studies of a few unrelated, 
healthy adults have revealed substantial diversity in their gut communities, as
measured by sequencing 16S rRNA genes, yet how this diversity relates to function
and to the rest of the genes in the collective genomes of the microbiota (the gut
microbiome) remains obscure. Studies of lean and obese mice suggest that the gut 
microbiota affects energy balance by influencing the efficiency of calorie
harvest from the diet, and how this harvested energy is used and stored. Here we 
characterize the faecal microbial communities of adult female monozygotic and
dizygotic twin pairs concordant for leanness or obesity, and their mothers, to
address how host genotype, environmental exposure and host adiposity influence
the gut microbiome. Analysis of 154 individuals yielded 9,920 near full-length
and 1,937,461 partial bacterial 16S rRNA sequences, plus 2.14 gigabases from
their microbiomes. The results reveal that the human gut microbiome is shared
among family members, but that each person's gut microbial community varies in
the specific bacterial lineages present, with a comparable degree of co-variation
between adult monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs. However, there was a wide
array of shared microbial genes among sampled individuals, comprising an
extensive, identifiable 'core microbiome' at the gene, rather than at the
organismal lineage, level. Obesity is associated with phylum-level changes in the
microbiota, reduced bacterial diversity and altered representation of bacterial
genes and metabolic pathways. These results demonstrate that a diversity of
organismal assemblages can nonetheless yield a core microbiome at a functional
level, and that deviations from this core are associated with different
physiological states (obese compared with lean).

DOI: 10.1038/nature07540 
PMCID: PMC2677729
PMID: 19043404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):485-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07529. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

Protein kinase R reveals an evolutionary model for defeating viral mimicry.

Elde NC(1), Child SJ, Geballe AP, Malik HS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.

Distinguishing self from non-self is a fundamental biological challenge. Many
pathogens exploit the challenge of self discrimination by employing mimicry to
subvert key cellular processes including the cell cycle, apoptosis and
cytoskeletal dynamics. Other mimics interfere with immunity. Poxviruses encode
K3L, a mimic of eIF2alpha, which is the substrate of protein kinase R (PKR), an
important component of innate immunity in vertebrates. The PKR-K3L interaction
exemplifies the conundrum imposed by viral mimicry. To be effective, PKR must
recognize a conserved substrate (eIF2alpha) while avoiding rapidly evolving
substrate mimics such as K3L. Using the PKR-K3L system and a combination of
phylogenetic and functional analyses, we uncover evolutionary strategies by which
host proteins can overcome mimicry. We find that PKR has evolved under intense
episodes of positive selection in primates. The ability of PKR to evade viral
mimics is partly due to positive selection at sites most intimately involved in
eIF2alpha recognition. We also find that adaptive changes on multiple surfaces of
PKR produce combinations of substitutions that increase the odds of defeating
mimicry. Thus, although it can seem that pathogens gain insurmountable advantages
by mimicking cellular components, host factors such as PKR can compete in
molecular 'arms races' with mimics because of evolutionary flexibility at protein
interaction interfaces challenged by mimicry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07529 
PMCID: PMC2629804
PMID: 19043403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):471-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07528.

Discovery of a sexual cycle in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus
fumigatus.

O'Gorman CM(1), Fuller H, Dyer PS.

Author information: 
(1)UCD School of Biology and Environmental Science, University College Dublin,
Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland. celine.ogorman@ucd.ie

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Mar 5;458(7234):29.

Aspergillus fumigatus is a saprotrophic fungus whose spores are ubiquitous in the
atmosphere. It is also an opportunistic human pathogen in immunocompromised
individuals, causing potentially lethal invasive infections, and is associated
with severe asthma and sinusitis. The species is only known to reproduce by
asexual means, but there has been accumulating evidence for recombination and
gene flow from population genetic studies, genome analysis, the presence of
mating-type genes and expression of sex-related genes in the fungus. Here we show
that A. fumigatus possesses a fully functional sexual reproductive cycle that
leads to the production of cleistothecia and ascospores, and the teleomorph
Neosartorya fumigata is described. The species has a heterothallic breeding
system; isolates of complementary mating types are required for sex to occur. We 
demonstrate increased genotypic variation resulting from recombination between
mating type and DNA fingerprint markers in ascospore progeny from an Irish
environmental subpopulation. The ability of A. fumigatus to engage in sexual
reproduction is highly significant in understanding the biology and evolution of 
the species. The presence of a sexual cycle provides an invaluable tool for
classical genetic analyses and will facilitate research into the genetic basis of
pathogenicity and fungicide resistance in A. fumigatus, with the aim of improving
methods for the control of aspergillosis. These results also yield insights into 
the potential for sexual reproduction in other supposedly 'asexual' fungi.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07528 
PMID: 19043401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):467-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07539. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Ferritin is used for iron storage in bloom-forming marine pennate diatoms.

Marchetti A(1), Parker MS, Moccia LP, Lin EO, Arrieta AL, Ribalet F, Murphy ME,
Maldonado MT, Armbrust EV.

Author information: 
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Box 357940, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Primary productivity in 30-40% of the world's oceans is limited by availability
of the micronutrient iron. Regions with chronically low iron concentrations are
sporadically pulsed with new iron inputs by way of dust or lateral advection from
continental margins. Addition of iron to surface waters in these areas induces
massive phytoplankton blooms dominated primarily by pennate diatoms. Here we
provide evidence that the bloom-forming pennate diatoms Pseudo-nitzschia and
Fragilariopsis use the iron-concentrating protein, ferritin, to safely store
iron. Ferritin has not been reported previously in any member of the
Stramenopiles, a diverse eukaryotic lineage that includes unicellular algae,
macroalgae and plant parasites. Phylogenetic analyses suggest that ferritin may
have arisen in this small subset of diatoms through a lateral gene transfer. The 
crystal structure and functional assays of recombinant ferritin derived from
Pseudo-nitzschia multiseries reveal a maxi-ferritin that exhibits ferroxidase
activity and binds iron. The protein is predicted to be targeted to the
chloroplast to control the distribution and storage of iron for proper
functioning of the photosynthetic machinery. Abundance of Pseudo-nitzschia
ferritin transcripts is regulated by iron nutritional status, and is closely tied
to the loss and recovery of photosynthetic competence. Enhanced iron storage with
ferritin allows the oceanic diatom Pseudo-nitzschia granii to undergo several
more cell divisions in the absence of iron than the comparably sized, oceanic
centric diatom Thalassiosira oceanica. Ferritin in pennate diatoms probably
contributes to their success in chronically low-iron regions that receive
intermittent iron inputs, and provides an explanation for the importance of these
organisms in regulating oceanic CO(2) over geological timescales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07539 
PMID: 19037243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Nature. 2009 Jan 22;457(7228):495-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07522. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Pulsed contractions of an actin-myosin network drive apical constriction.

Martin AC(1), Kaschube M, Wieschaus EF.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Apical constriction facilitates epithelial sheet bending and invagination during 
morphogenesis. Apical constriction is conventionally thought to be driven by the 
continuous purse-string-like contraction of a circumferential actin and
non-muscle myosin-II (myosin) belt underlying adherens junctions. However, it is 
unclear whether other force-generating mechanisms can drive this process. Here we
show, with the use of real-time imaging and quantitative image analysis of
Drosophila gastrulation, that the apical constriction of ventral furrow cells is 
pulsed. Repeated constrictions, which are asynchronous between neighbouring
cells, are interrupted by pauses in which the constricted state of the cell apex 
is maintained. In contrast to the purse-string model, constriction pulses are
powered by actin-myosin network contractions that occur at the medial apical
cortex and pull discrete adherens junction sites inwards. The transcription
factors Twist and Snail differentially regulate pulsed constriction. Expression
of snail initiates actin-myosin network contractions, whereas expression of twist
stabilizes the constricted state of the cell apex. Our results suggest a new
model for apical constriction in which a cortical actin-myosin cytoskeleton
functions as a developmentally controlled subcellular ratchet to reduce apical
area incrementally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07522 
PMCID: PMC2822715
PMID: 19029882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):309-12. doi: 10.1038/nature07616.

A tunable synthetic mammalian oscillator.

Tigges M(1), Marquez-Lago TT, Stelling J, Fussenegger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zurich, Mattenstrasse
26, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):271-2.

Autonomous and self-sustained oscillator circuits mediating the periodic
induction of specific target genes are minimal genetic time-keeping devices found
in the central and peripheral circadian clocks. They have attracted significant
attention because of their intriguing dynamics and their importance in
controlling critical repair, metabolic and signalling pathways. The precise
molecular mechanism and expression dynamics of this mammalian circadian clock are
still not fully understood. Here we describe a synthetic mammalian oscillator
based on an auto-regulated sense-antisense transcription control circuit encoding
a positive and a time-delayed negative feedback loop, enabling autonomous,
self-sustained and tunable oscillatory gene expression. After detailed systems
design with experimental analyses and mathematical modelling, we monitored
oscillating concentrations of green fluorescent protein with tunable frequency
and amplitude by time-lapse microscopy in real time in individual Chinese hamster
ovary cells. The synthetic mammalian clock may provide an insight into the
dynamics of natural periodic processes and foster advances in the design of
prosthetic networks in future gene and cell therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07616 
PMID: 19148099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):305-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07436.

The braincase and jaws of a Devonian 'acanthodian' and modern gnathostome
origins.

Brazeau MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Subdepartment of Evolutionary Organismal Biology, Department of Physiology and
Developmental Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Norbyvägen 18A, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. martin.brazeau@gmail.com

Modern gnathostomes (jawed vertebrates) emerged in the early Palaeozoic era, but 
this event remains unclear owing to a scant early fossil record. The exclusively 
Palaeozoic 'acanthodians' are possibly the earliest gnathostome group and exhibit
a mosaic of shark- and bony fish-like characters that has long given them
prominence in discussions of early gnathostome evolution. Their relationships
with modern gnathostomes have remained mysterious, partly because their
un-mineralized endoskeletons rarely fossilized. Here I present the first-known
braincase of an Early Devonian (approximately 418-412 Myr bp) acanthodian,
Ptomacanthus anglicus, and re-evaluate the interrelationships of basal
gnathostomes. Acanthodian braincases have previously been represented by a single
genus, Acanthodes, which occurs more than 100 million years later in the fossil
record. The braincase of Ptomacanthus differs radically from the
osteichthyan-like braincase of Acanthodes in exhibiting several plesiomorphic
features shared with placoderms and some early chondrichthyans. Most striking is 
its extremely short sphenoid region and its jaw suspension, which displays
features intermediate between some Palaeozoic chondrichthyans and osteichthyans. 
Phylogenetic analysis resolves Ptomacanthus as either the most basal
chondrichthyan or as the sister group of all living gnathostomes. These new data 
alter earlier conceptions of basal gnathostome phylogeny and thus help to provide
a more detailed picture of the acquisition of early gnathostome characters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07436 
PMID: 19148098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):301-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07647.

Boundary layer control of rotating convection systems.

King EM(1), Stellmach S, Noir J, Hansen U, Aurnou JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Space Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095-1567, USA. eric.king@ucla.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):270-1.

Turbulent rotating convection controls many observed features of stars and
planets, such as magnetic fields, atmospheric jets and emitted heat flux
patterns. It has long been argued that the influence of rotation on turbulent
convection dynamics is governed by the ratio of the relevant global-scale forces:
the Coriolis force and the buoyancy force. Here, however, we present results from
laboratory and numerical experiments which exhibit transitions between
rotationally dominated and non-rotating behaviour that are not determined by this
global force balance. Instead, the transition is controlled by the relative
thicknesses of the thermal (non-rotating) and Ekman (rotating) boundary layers.
We formulate a predictive description of the transition between the two regimes
on the basis of the competition between these two boundary layers. This
transition scaling theory unifies the disparate results of an extensive array of 
previous experiments, and is broadly applicable to natural convection systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07647 
PMID: 19148097 


859. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):296-300. doi: 10.1038/nature07644.

Competition between the pseudogap and superconductivity in the high-T(c) copper
oxides.

Kondo T(1), Khasanov R, Takeuchi T, Schmalian J, Kaminski A.

Author information: 
(1)Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA. kondo@ameslab.gov

In a classical Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer superconductor, pairing and coherence of
electrons are established simultaneously below the critical transition
temperature (T(c)), giving rise to a gap in the electronic energy spectrum. In
the high-T(c) copper oxide superconductors, however, a pseudogap extends above
T(c). The relationship between the pseudogap and superconductivity is one of the 
central issues in this field. Spectral gaps arising from pairing precursors are
qualitatively similar to those caused by competing electronic states, rendering a
standard approach to their analysis inconclusive. The issue can be settled,
however, by studying the correlation between the weights associated with the
pseudogap and superconductivity spectral features. Here we report a study of two 
spectral weights using angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. The weight of
the superconducting coherent peak increases away from the node following the
trend of the superconducting gap, but starts to decrease in the antinodal region.
This striking non-monotonicity reveals the presence of a competing state. We
demonstrate a direct correlation, for different values of momenta and doping,
between the loss in the low-energy spectral weight arising from the opening of
the pseudogap and a decrease in the spectral weight associated with
superconductivity. We therefore conclude that the pseudogap competes with the
superconductivity by depleting the spectral weight available for pairing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07644 
PMID: 19148096 


860. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):291-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07640.

Collective fluid dynamics of a polariton condensate in a semiconductor
microcavity.

Amo A(1), Sanvitto D, Laussy FP, Ballarini D, del Valle E, Martin MD, Lemaître A,
Bloch J, Krizhanovskii DN, Skolnick MS, Tejedor C, Viña L.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento Física de Materiales, Universidad Autonóma de Madrid, 28049
Madrid, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):273-4.

Semiconductor microcavities offer unique systems in which to investigate the
physics of weakly interacting bosons. Their elementary excitations,
polaritons-mixtures of excitons and photons-can accumulate in macroscopically
degenerate states to form various types of condensate in a wide range of
experimental configurations, under either incoherent or coherent excitation.
Condensates of polaritons have been put forward as candidates for superfluidity, 
and the formation of vortices as well as elementary excitations with linear
dispersion are actively sought as evidence to support this. Here, using a
coherent excitation triggered by a short optical pulse, we have created and set
in motion a macroscopically degenerate state of polaritons that can be made to
collide with a variety of defects present in the microcavity. Our experiments
show striking manifestations of a coherent light-matter packet, travelling at
high speed (of the order of one per cent of the speed of light) and displaying
collective dynamics consistent with superfluidity, although one of a highly
unusual character as it involves an out-of-equilibrium dissipative system. Our
main results are the observation of a linear polariton dispersion accompanied by 
diffusionless motion; flow without resistance when crossing an obstacle;
suppression of Rayleigh scattering; and splitting into two fluids when the size
of the obstacle is comparable to the size of the wave packet. This work opens the
way to the investigation of new phenomenology of out-of-equilibrium condensates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07640 
PMID: 19148095 


861. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):288-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07635.

A binary origin for 'blue stragglers' in globular clusters.

Knigge C(1), Leigh N, Sills A.

Author information: 
(1)University of Southampton, School of Physics and Astronomy, Southampton SO17
1BJ, UK. christian@astro.soton.ac.uk

Blue stragglers in globular clusters are abnormally massive stars that should
have evolved off the stellar main sequence long ago. There are two known
processes that can create these objects: direct stellar collisions and binary
evolution. However, the relative importance of these processes has remained
unclear. In particular, the total number of blue stragglers found in a given
cluster does not seem to correlate with the predicted collision rate, providing
indirect support for the binary-evolution model. Yet the radial distributions of 
blue stragglers in many clusters are bimodal, with a dominant central peak: this 
has been interpreted as an indication that collisions do dominate blue straggler 
production, at least in the high-density cluster cores. Here we report that there
is a clear, but sublinear, correlation between the number of blue stragglers
found in a cluster core and the total stellar mass contained within it. From this
we conclude that most blue stragglers, even those found in cluster cores, come
from binary systems. The parent binaries, however, may themselves have been
affected by dynamical encounters. This may be the key to reconciling all of the
seemingly conflicting results found to date.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07635 
PMID: 19148094 


862. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):281-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07682. Epub 2008 Dec 31.

Photon capture and signalling by melanopsin retinal ganglion cells.

Do MT(1), Kang SH, Xue T, Zhong H, Liao HW, Bergles DE, Yau KW.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. mdo@jhmi.edu

A subset of retinal ganglion cells has recently been discovered to be
intrinsically photosensitive, with melanopsin as the pigment. These cells project
primarily to brain centres for non-image-forming visual functions such as the
pupillary light reflex and circadian photoentrainment. How well they signal
intrinsic light absorption to drive behaviour remains unclear. Here we report
fundamental parameters governing their intrinsic light responses and associated
spike generation. The membrane density of melanopsin is 10(4)-fold lower than
that of rod and cone pigments, resulting in a very low photon catch and a
phototransducing role only in relatively bright light. Nonetheless, each captured
photon elicits a large and extraordinarily prolonged response, with a unique
shape among known photoreceptors. Notably, like rods, these cells are capable of 
signalling single-photon absorption. A flash causing a few hundred isomerized
melanopsin molecules in a retina is sufficient for reaching threshold for the
pupillary light reflex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07682 
PMCID: PMC2794210
PMID: 19118382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):277-80. doi: 10.1038/nature07677. Epub 2008 Dec 21.

Induced pluripotent stem cells from a spinal muscular atrophy patient.

Ebert AD(1), Yu J, Rose FF Jr, Mattis VB, Lorson CL, Thomson JA, Svendsen CN.

Author information: 
(1)The Waisman Center, The Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center, University
of Wisconsin-Madison, 1500 Highland Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin 53705, USA.
ebert@waisman.wisc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):269-70.

Spinal muscular atrophy is one of the most common inherited forms of neurological
disease leading to infant mortality. Patients have selective loss of lower motor 
neurons resulting in muscle weakness, paralysis and often death. Although patient
fibroblasts have been used extensively to study spinal muscular atrophy, motor
neurons have a unique anatomy and physiology which may underlie their
vulnerability to the disease process. Here we report the generation of induced
pluripotent stem cells from skin fibroblast samples taken from a child with
spinal muscular atrophy. These cells expanded robustly in culture, maintained the
disease genotype and generated motor neurons that showed selective deficits
compared to those derived from the child's unaffected mother. This is the first
study to show that human induced pluripotent stem cells can be used to model the 
specific pathology seen in a genetically inherited disease. As such, it
represents a promising resource to study disease mechanisms, screen new drug
compounds and develop new therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07677 
PMCID: PMC2659408
PMID: 19098894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):318-21. doi: 10.1038/nature07472. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Role for Spi-C in the development of red pulp macrophages and splenic iron
homeostasis.

Kohyama M(1), Ise W, Edelson BT, Wilker PR, Hildner K, Mejia C, Frazier WA,
Murphy TL, Murphy KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Tissue macrophages comprise a heterogeneous group of cell types differing in
location, surface markers and function. Red pulp macrophages are a distinct
splenic subset involved in removing senescent red blood cells. Transcription
factors such as PU.1 (also known as Sfpi1) and C/EBPalpha (Cebpa) have general
roles in myelomonocytic development, but the transcriptional basis for producing 
tissue macrophage subsets remains unknown. Here we show that Spi-C (encoded by
Spic), a PU.1-related transcription factor, selectively controls the development 
of red pulp macrophages. Spi-C is highly expressed in red pulp macrophages, but
not monocytes, dendritic cells or other tissue macrophages. Spic(-/-) mice have a
cell-autonomous defect in the development of red pulp macrophages that is
corrected by retroviral Spi-C expression in bone marrow cells, but have normal
monocyte and other macrophage subsets. Red pulp macrophages highly express genes 
involved in capturing circulating haemoglobin and in iron regulation. Spic(-/-)
mice show normal trapping of red blood cells in the spleen, but fail to
phagocytose these red blood cells efficiently, and develop an iron overload
localized selectively to splenic red pulp. Thus, Spi-C controls development of
red pulp macrophages required for red blood cell recycling and iron homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07472 
PMCID: PMC2756102
PMID: 19037245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):336-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07512. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Dynamics of DNA replication loops reveal temporal control of lagging-strand
synthesis.

Hamdan SM(1), Loparo JJ, Takahashi M, Richardson CC, van Oijen AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In all organisms, the protein machinery responsible for the replication of DNA,
the replisome, is faced with a directionality problem. The antiparallel nature of
duplex DNA permits the leading-strand polymerase to advance in a continuous
fashion, but forces the lagging-strand polymerase to synthesize in the opposite
direction. By extending RNA primers, the lagging-strand polymerase restarts at
short intervals and produces Okazaki fragments. At least in prokaryotic systems, 
this directionality problem is solved by the formation of a loop in the lagging
strand of the replication fork to reorient the lagging-strand DNA polymerase so
that it advances in parallel with the leading-strand polymerase. The replication 
loop grows and shrinks during each cycle of Okazaki fragment synthesis. Here we
use single-molecule techniques to visualize, in real time, the formation and
release of replication loops by individual replisomes of bacteriophage T7
supporting coordinated DNA replication. Analysis of the distributions of loop
sizes and lag times between loops reveals that initiation of primer synthesis and
the completion of an Okazaki fragment each serve as a trigger for loop release.
The presence of two triggers may represent a fail-safe mechanism ensuring the
timely reset of the replisome after the synthesis of every Okazaki fragment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07512 
PMCID: PMC2651468
PMID: 19029884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):327-31. doi: 10.1038/nature07523. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Altered circadian rhythms regulate growth vigour in hybrids and allopolyploids.

Ni Z(1), Kim ED, Ha M, Lackey E, Liu J, Zhang Y, Sun Q, Chen ZJ.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology, The University of Texas
at Austin, One University Station, A-4800, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Segregating hybrids and stable allopolyploids display morphological vigour, and
Arabidopsis allotetraploids are larger than the parents Arabidopsis thaliana and 
Arabidopsis arenosa-the mechanisms for this are unknown. Circadian clocks mediate
metabolic pathways and increase fitness in animals and plants. Here we report
that epigenetic modifications of the circadian clock genes CIRCADIAN CLOCK
ASSOCIATED 1 (CCA1) and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY) and their reciprocal
regulators TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1 (TOC1) and GIGANTEA (GI) mediate expression
changes in downstream genes and pathways. During the day, epigenetic repression
of CCA1 and LHY induced the expression of TOC1, GI and downstream genes
containing evening elements in chlorophyll and starch metabolic pathways in
allotetraploids and F(1) hybrids, which produced more chlorophyll and starch than
the parents in the same environment. Mutations in cca1 and cca1 lhy and the daily
repression of cca1 by RNA interference (RNAi) in TOC1::cca1(RNAi) transgenic
plants increased the expression of downstream genes and increased chlorophyll and
starch content, whereas constitutively expressing CCA1 or ectopically expressing 
TOC1::CCA1 had the opposite effect. The causal effects of CCA1 on output traits
suggest that hybrids and allopolyploids gain advantages from the control of
circadian-mediated physiological and metabolic pathways, leading to growth vigour
and increased biomass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07523 
PMCID: PMC2679702
PMID: 19029881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):313-7. doi: 10.1038/nature07487. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Experience leaves a lasting structural trace in cortical circuits.

Hofer SB(1), Mrsic-Flogel TD, Bonhoeffer T, Hübener M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Sensory experiences exert a powerful influence on the function and future
performance of neuronal circuits in the mammalian neocortex. Restructuring of
synaptic connections is believed to be one mechanism by which cortical circuits
store information about the sensory world. Excitatory synaptic structures, such
as dendritic spines, are dynamic entities that remain sensitive to alteration of 
sensory input throughout life. It remains unclear, however, whether structural
changes at the level of dendritic spines can outlast the original experience and 
thereby provide a morphological basis for long-term information storage. Here we 
follow spine dynamics on apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in functionally
defined regions of adult mouse visual cortex during plasticity of eye-specific
responses induced by repeated closure of one eye (monocular deprivation). The
first monocular deprivation episode doubled the rate of spine formation, thereby 
increasing spine density. This effect was specific to layer-5 cells located in
binocular cortex, where most neurons increase their responsiveness to the
non-deprived eye. Restoring binocular vision returned spine dynamics to baseline 
levels, but absolute spine density remained elevated and many monocular
deprivation-induced spines persisted during this period of functional recovery.
However, spine addition did not increase again when the same eye was closed for a
second time. This absence of structural plasticity stands out against the robust 
changes of eye-specific responses that occur even faster after repeated
deprivation. Thus, spines added during the first monocular deprivation experience
may provide a structural basis for subsequent functional shifts. These results
provide a strong link between functional plasticity and specific synaptic
rearrangements, revealing a mechanism of how prior experiences could be stored in
cortical circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07487 
PMID: 19005470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):322-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07526. Epub 2008 Oct 29.

The insect nephrocyte is a podocyte-like cell with a filtration slit diaphragm.

Weavers H(1), Prieto-Sánchez S, Grawe F, Garcia-López A, Artero R,
Wilsch-Bräuninger M, Ruiz-Gómez M, Skaer H, Denholm B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 
3EJ, UK.

The nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the vertebrate kidney.
It is composed of a glomerulus, the site of ultrafiltration, and a renal tubule, 
along which the filtrate is modified. Although widely regarded as a vertebrate
adaptation, 'nephron-like' features can be found in the excretory systems of many
invertebrates, raising the possibility that components of the vertebrate
excretory system were inherited from their invertebrate ancestors. Here we show
that the insect nephrocyte has remarkable anatomical, molecular and functional
similarity to the glomerular podocyte, a cell in the vertebrate kidney that forms
the main size-selective barrier as blood is ultrafiltered to make urine. In
particular, both cell types possess a specialized filtration diaphragm, known as 
the slit diaphragm in podocytes or the nephrocyte diaphragm in nephrocytes. We
find that fly (Drosophila melanogaster) orthologues of the major constituents of 
the slit diaphragm, including nephrin, NEPH1 (also known as KIRREL), CD2AP, ZO-1 
(TJP1) and podocin, are expressed in the nephrocyte and form a complex of
interacting proteins that closely mirrors the vertebrate slit diaphragm complex. 
Furthermore, we find that the nephrocyte diaphragm is completely lost in flies
lacking the orthologues of nephrin or NEPH1-a phenotype resembling loss of the
slit diaphragm in the absence of either nephrin (as in human congenital nephrotic
syndrome of the Finnish type, NPHS1) or NEPH1. These changes markedly impair
filtration function in the nephrocyte. The similarities we describe between
invertebrate nephrocytes and vertebrate podocytes provide evidence suggesting
that the two cell types are evolutionarily related, and establish the nephrocyte 
as a simple model in which to study podocyte biology and podocyte-associated
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07526 
PMCID: PMC2687078
PMID: 18971929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nature. 2009 Jan 15;457(7227):332-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07510. Epub 2008 Oct 22.

Transcription inactivation through local refolding of the RNA polymerase
structure.

Belogurov GA(1), Vassylyeva MN, Sevostyanova A, Appleman JR, Xiang AX, Lira R,
Webber SE, Klyuyev S, Nudler E, Artsimovitch I, Vassylyev DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, The Ohio State University, 484 West 12th Avenue,
Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

Structural studies of antibiotics not only provide a shortcut to medicine
allowing for rational structure-based drug design, but may also capture snapshots
of dynamic intermediates that become 'frozen' after inhibitor binding.
Myxopyronin inhibits bacterial RNA polymerase (RNAP) by an unknown mechanism.
Here we report the structure of dMyx--a desmethyl derivative of myxopyronin
B--complexed with a Thermus thermophilus RNAP holoenzyme. The antibiotic binds to
a pocket deep inside the RNAP clamp head domain, which interacts with the DNA
template in the transcription bubble. Notably, binding of dMyx stabilizes
refolding of the beta'-subunit switch-2 segment, resulting in a configuration
that might indirectly compromise binding to, or directly clash with, the melted
template DNA strand. Consistently, footprinting data show that the antibiotic
binding does not prevent nucleation of the promoter DNA melting but instead
blocks its propagation towards the active site. Myxopyronins are thus, to our
knowledge, a first structurally characterized class of antibiotics that target
formation of the pre-catalytic transcription initiation complex-the decisive step
in gene expression control. Notably, mutations designed in switch-2 mimic the
dMyx effects on promoter complexes in the absence of antibiotic. Overall, our
results indicate a plausible mechanism of the dMyx action and a stepwise pathway 
of open complex formation in which core enzyme mediates the final stage of DNA
melting near the transcription start site, and that switch-2 might act as a
molecular checkpoint for DNA loading in response to regulatory signals or
antibiotics. The universally conserved switch-2 may have the same role in all
multisubunit RNAPs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07510 
PMCID: PMC2628454
PMID: 18946472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):219-23. doi: 10.1038/nature07614.

Structural basis for androgen specificity and oestrogen synthesis in human
aromatase.

Ghosh D(1), Griswold J, Erman M, Pangborn W.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology, Hauptman-Woodward Medical Research Institute, 700 Ellicott
Street, Buffalo, New York 14203, USA. ghosh@hwi.buffalo.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):159-60.

Aromatase cytochrome P450 is the only enzyme in vertebrates known to catalyse the
biosynthesis of all oestrogens from androgens. Aromatase inhibitors therefore
constitute a frontline therapy for oestrogen-dependent breast cancer. In a
three-step process, each step requiring 1 mol of O(2), 1 mol of NADPH, and
coupling with its redox partner cytochrome P450 reductase, aromatase converts
androstenedione, testosterone and 16alpha-hydroxytestosterone to oestrone,
17beta-oestradiol and 17beta,16alpha-oestriol, respectively. The first two steps 
are C19-methyl hydroxylation steps, and the third involves the aromatization of
the steroid A-ring, unique to aromatase. Whereas most P450s are not highly
substrate selective, it is the hallmark androgenic specificity that sets
aromatase apart. The structure of this enzyme of the endoplasmic reticulum
membrane has remained unknown for decades, hindering elucidation of the
biochemical mechanism. Here we present the crystal structure of human placental
aromatase, the only natural mammalian, full-length P450 and P450 in hormone
biosynthetic pathways to be crystallized so far. Unlike the active sites of many 
microsomal P450s that metabolize drugs and xenobiotics, aromatase has an
androgen-specific cleft that binds the androstenedione molecule snugly.
Hydrophobic and polar residues exquisitely complement the steroid backbone. The
locations of catalytically important residues shed light on the reaction
mechanism. The relative juxtaposition of the hydrophobic amino-terminal region
and the opening to the catalytic cleft shows why membrane anchoring is necessary 
for the lipophilic substrates to gain access to the active site. The molecular
basis for the enzyme's androgenic specificity and unique catalytic mechanism can 
be used for developing next-generation aromatase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07614 
PMCID: PMC2820300
PMID: 19129847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):183-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07435.

Diversity dynamics of marine planktonic diatoms across the Cenozoic.

Rabosky DL(1), Sorhannus U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA. DLR32@cornell.edu

Diatoms are the dominant group of phytoplankton in the modern ocean. They account
for approximately 40% of oceanic primary productivity and over 50% of organic
carbon burial in marine sediments. Owing to their role as a biological carbon
pump and effects on atmospheric CO(2) levels, there is great interest in
elucidating factors that influenced the rapid rise in diatom diversity during the
past 40 million years. Two biotic controls on diversification have been proposed 
to explain this diversity increase: (1) geochemical coupling between terrestrial 
grasslands and marine ecosystems through the global silicon cycle; and (2)
competitive displacement of other phytoplankton lineages. However, these
hypotheses have not been tested using sampling-standardized fossil data. Here we 
show that reconstructions of species diversity in marine phytoplankton reject
these proposed controls and suggest a new pattern for oceanic diatom diversity
across the Cenozoic. Peak species diversity in marine planktonic diatoms occurred
at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary and was followed by a pronounced decline, from
which diversity has not recovered. Although the roles of abiotic and biotic
drivers of diversification remain unclear, major features of oceanic diatom
evolution are decoupled from both grassland expansion and competition among
phytoplankton groups.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07435 
PMID: 19129846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):179-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07651.

Early formation of evolved asteroidal crust.

Day JM(1), Ash RD, Liu Y, Bellucci JJ, Rumble D 3rd, McDonough WF, Walker RJ,
Taylor LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA. jamesday@umd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):E1; discussion E2.

Mechanisms for the formation of crust on planetary bodies remain poorly
understood. It is generally accepted that Earth's andesitic continental crust is 
the product of plate tectonics, whereas the Moon acquired its feldspar-rich crust
by way of plagioclase flotation in a magma ocean. Basaltic meteorites provide
evidence that, like the terrestrial planets, some asteroids generated crust and
underwent large-scale differentiation processes. Until now, however, no evolved
felsic asteroidal crust has been sampled or observed. Here we report age and
compositional data for the newly discovered, paired and differentiated meteorites
Graves Nunatak (GRA) 06128 and GRA 06129. These meteorites are feldspar-rich,
with andesite bulk compositions. Their age of 4.52 +/- 0.06 Gyr demonstrates
formation early in Solar System history. The isotopic and elemental compositions,
degree of metamorphic re-equilibration and sulphide-rich nature of the meteorites
are most consistent with an origin as partial melts from a volatile-rich,
oxidized asteroid. GRA 06128 and 06129 are the result of a newly recognized style
of evolved crust formation, bearing witness to incomplete differentiation of
their parent asteroid and to previously unrecognized diversity of early-formed
materials in the Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07651 
PMID: 19129845 


873. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):174-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07636.

Electrically pumped photonic-crystal terahertz lasers controlled by boundary
conditions.

Chassagneux Y(1), Colombelli R, Maineult W, Barbieri S, Beere HE, Ritchie DA,
Khanna SP, Linfield EH, Davies AG.

Author information: 
(1)Institut d'Electronique Fondamentale, Université Paris Sud and CNRS, UMR 8622,
91405 Orsay, France.

Semiconductor lasers based on two-dimensional photonic crystals generally rely on
an optically pumped central area, surrounded by un-pumped, and therefore
absorbing, regions. This ideal configuration is lost when photonic-crystal lasers
are electrically pumped, which is practically more attractive as an external
laser source is not required. In this case, in order to avoid lateral spreading
of the electrical current, the device active area must be physically defined by
appropriate semiconductor processing. This creates an abrupt change in the
complex dielectric constant at the device boundaries, especially in the case of
lasers operating in the far-infrared, where the large emission wavelengths impose
device thicknesses of several micrometres. Here we show that such abrupt boundary
conditions can dramatically influence the operation of electrically pumped
photonic-crystal lasers. By demonstrating a general technique to implement
reflecting or absorbing boundaries, we produce evidence that
whispering-gallery-like modes or true photonic-crystal states can be
alternatively excited. We illustrate the power of this technique by fabricating
photonic-crystal terahertz (THz) semiconductor lasers, where the photonic crystal
is implemented via the sole patterning of the device top metallization.
Single-mode laser action is obtained in the 2.55-2.88 THz range, and the emission
far field exhibits a small angular divergence, thus providing a solution for the 
quasi-total lack of directionality typical of THz semiconductor lasers based on
metal-metal waveguides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07636 
PMID: 19129844 


874. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):170-3. doi: 10.1038/nature07610.

Measured long-range repulsive Casimir-Lifshitz forces.

Munday JN(1), Capasso F, Parsegian VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):156-7.

Quantum fluctuations create intermolecular forces that pervade macroscopic
bodies. At molecular separations of a few nanometres or less, these interactions 
are the familiar van der Waals forces. However, as recognized in the theories of 
Casimir, Polder and Lifshitz, at larger distances and between macroscopic
condensed media they reveal retardation effects associated with the finite speed 
of light. Although these long-range forces exist within all matter, only
attractive interactions have so far been measured between material bodies. Here
we show experimentally that, in accord with theoretical prediction, the sign of
the force can be changed from attractive to repulsive by suitable choice of
interacting materials immersed in a fluid. The measured repulsive interaction is 
found to be weaker than the attractive. However, in both cases the magnitude of
the force increases with decreasing surface separation. Repulsive
Casimir-Lifshitz forces could allow quantum levitation of objects in a fluid and 
lead to a new class of switchable nanoscale devices with ultra-low static
friction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07610 
PMCID: PMC4169270
PMID: 19129843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):167-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07626.

Energy flux determines magnetic field strength of planets and stars.

Christensen UR(1), Holzwarth V, Reiners A.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Sonnensystemforschung, Max Planck Strasse 2, 37191
Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany. christensen@mps.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):158-9.

The magnetic fields of Earth and Jupiter, along with those of rapidly rotating,
low-mass stars, are generated by convection-driven dynamos that may operate
similarly (the slowly rotating Sun generates its field through a different dynamo
mechanism). The field strengths of planets and stars vary over three orders of
magnitude, but the critical factor causing that variation has hitherto been
unclear. Here we report an extension of a scaling law derived from geodynamo
models to rapidly rotating stars that have strong density stratification. The
unifying principle in the scaling law is that the energy flux available for
generating the magnetic field sets the field strength. Our scaling law fits the
observed field strengths of Earth, Jupiter, young contracting stars and rapidly
rotating low-mass stars, despite vast differences in the physical conditions of
the objects. We predict that the field strengths of rapidly rotating brown dwarfs
and massive extrasolar planets are high enough to make them observable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07626 
PMID: 19129842 


876. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):161-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07582. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

Quality control by the ribosome following peptide bond formation.

Zaher HS(1), Green R.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):157-8.

The overall fidelity of protein synthesis has been thought to rely on the
combined accuracy of two basic processes: the aminoacylation of transfer RNAs
with their cognate amino acid by the aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, and the
selection of cognate aminoacyl-tRNAs by the ribosome in cooperation with the
GTPase elongation factor EF-Tu. These two processes, which together ensure the
specific acceptance of a correctly charged cognate tRNA into the aminoacyl (A)
site, operate before peptide bond formation. Here we report the identification of
an additional mechanism that contributes to high fidelity protein synthesis after
peptidyl transfer, using a well-defined in vitro bacterial translation system. In
this retrospective quality control step, the incorporation of an amino acid from 
a non-cognate tRNA into the growing polypeptide chain leads to a general loss of 
specificity in the A site of the ribosome, and thus to a propagation of errors
that results in abortive termination of protein synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07582 
PMCID: PMC2805954
PMID: 19092806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):210-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07536. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Caenorhabditis elegans dauers need LKB1/AMPK to ration lipid reserves and ensure 
long-term survival.

Narbonne P(1), Roy R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3A 1B1, Canada.

Many organisms can enter a dormant state or diapause to survive harsh
environmental conditions for extended durations. When Caenorhabditis elegans
larvae enter dauer they arrest feeding but remain active and motile, yet become
stress-resistant, extremely long-lived and non-ageing. Entry into dauer is
associated with a reduction in insulin-like signalling, the accumulation of
nutritive resources and a concomitant global change in metabolism, yet the
precise molecular and physiological processes that enable long-term survival in
the absence of caloric intake remain largely unknown. We show here that C.
elegans larvae that lack LKB1/AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase) signalling
enter dauer normally, but then rapidly consume their stored energy and
prematurely expire following vital organ failure. We found that this signalling
pathway acts in adipose-like tissues to downregulate triglyceride hydrolysis so
that these lipid reserves are rationed to last the entire duration of the arrest.
Indeed, the downregulation of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL-1) activity
suppresses both the rapid depletion of stored lipids and reduced life span of
AMPK mutant dauers, while AMPK directly phosphorylates ATGL-1. Finally, we show
that the slow release of energy during dauer is critical for appropriate
long-term osmoregulation, which fails as triglyceride resources become depleted. 
These mechanisms may be essential for survival through diapause, hibernation, or 
long-term fasting in diverse organisms and may also underlie AMPK-dependent life 
span extension.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07536 
PMID: 19052547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):205-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07520. Epub 2008 Nov 30.

The dynein regulatory complex is required for ciliary motility and otolith
biogenesis in the inner ear.

Colantonio JR(1), Vermot J, Wu D, Langenbacher AD, Fraser S, Chen JN, Hill KL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

In teleosts, proper balance and hearing depend on mechanical sensors in the inner
ear. These sensors include actin-based microvilli and microtubule-based cilia
that extend from the surface of sensory hair cells and attach to biomineralized
'ear stones' (or otoliths). Otolith number, size and placement are under strict
developmental control, but the mechanisms that ensure otolith assembly atop
specific cells of the sensory epithelium are unclear. Here we demonstrate that
cilia motility is required for normal otolith assembly and localization. Using in
vivo video microscopy, we show that motile tether cilia at opposite poles of the 
otic vesicle create fluid vortices that attract otolith precursor particles,
thereby biasing an otherwise random distribution to direct localized otolith
seeding on tether cilia. Independent knockdown of subunits for the dynein
regulatory complex and outer-arm dynein disrupt cilia motility, leading to
defective otolith biogenesis. These results demonstrate a requirement for the
dynein regulatory complex in vertebrates and show that cilia-driven flow is a key
epigenetic factor in controlling otolith biomineralization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07520 
PMCID: PMC3821763
PMID: 19043402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):215-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07521. Epub 2008 Nov 23.

Analysis of combinatorial cis-regulation in synthetic and genomic promoters.

Gertz J(1), Siggia ED, Cohen BA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences, Department of Genetics, Washington University in
Saint Louis School of Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri
63108, USA.

Transcription factor binding sites are being discovered at a rapid pace. It is
now necessary to turn attention towards understanding how these sites work in
combination to influence gene expression. Quantitative models that accurately
predict gene expression from promoter sequence will be a crucial part of solving 
this problem. Here we present such a model, based on the analysis of synthetic
promoter libraries in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Thermodynamic models
based only on the equilibrium binding of transcription factors to DNA and to each
other captured a large fraction of the variation in expression in every library. 
Thermodynamic analysis of these libraries uncovered several phenomena in our
system, including cooperativity and the effects of weak binding sites. When
applied to the S. cerevisiae genome, a model of repression by Mig1 (which was
trained on synthetic promoters) predicts a number of Mig1-regulated genes that
lack significant Mig1-binding sites in their promoters. The success of the
thermodynamic approach suggests that the information encoded by combinations of
cis-regulatory sites is interpreted primarily through simple protein-DNA and
protein-protein interactions, with complicated biochemical reactions-such as
nucleosome modifications-being downstream events. Quantitative analyses of
synthetic promoter libraries will be an important tool in unravelling the rules
underlying combinatorial cis-regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07521 
PMCID: PMC2677908
PMID: 19029883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):200-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07475. Epub 2008 Nov 19.

Frequent in-frame somatic deletions activate gp130 in inflammatory hepatocellular
tumours.

Rebouissou S(1), Amessou M, Couchy G, Poussin K, Imbeaud S, Pilati C, Izard T,
Balabaud C, Bioulac-Sage P, Zucman-Rossi J.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, U674, Génomique fonctionnelle des tumeurs solides, Paris F-75010,
France.

Comment in
    Future Oncol. 2009 Apr;5(3):305-8.
    Hepatology. 2009 Apr;49(4):1387-9.
    J Hepatol. 2009 Jul;51(1):230-2.

Inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas are benign liver tumours defined by the
presence of inflammatory infiltrates and by the increased expression of
inflammatory proteins in tumour hepatocytes. Here we show a marked activation of 
the interleukin (IL)-6 signalling pathway in this tumour type; sequencing
candidate genes pinpointed this response to somatic gain-of-function mutations in
the IL6ST gene, which encodes the signalling co-receptor gp130. Indeed, 60% of
inflammatory hepatocellular adenomas harbour small in-frame deletions that target
the binding site of gp130 for IL-6, and expression of four different gp130
mutants in hepatocellular cells activates signal transducer and activator of
transcription 3 (STAT3) in the absence of ligand. Furthermore, analysis of
hepatocellular carcinomas revealed that rare gp130 alterations are always
accompanied by beta-catenin-activating mutations, suggesting a cooperative effect
of these signalling pathways in the malignant conversion of hepatocytes. The
recurrent gain-of-function gp130 mutations in these human hepatocellular adenomas
fully explains activation of the acute inflammatory phase observed in tumourous
hepatocytes, and suggests that similar alterations may occur in other
inflammatory epithelial tumours with STAT3 activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07475 
PMCID: PMC2695248
PMID: 19020503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):191-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07591. Epub 2008 Nov 16.

Myelomonocytic cell recruitment causes fatal CNS vascular injury during acute
viral meningitis.

Kim JV(1), Kang SS, Dustin ML, McGavern DB.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Pathogenesis, Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for
Biology and Medicine, Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York
University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Epilepsy Curr. 2009 Sep-Oct;9(5):148-50.
    Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):155-6.

Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection of the mouse central nervous system 
(CNS) elicits fatal immunopathology through blood-brain barrier breakdown and
convulsive seizures. Although lymphocytic-choriomeningitis-virus-specific
cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are essential for disease, their mechanism of
action is not known. To gain insights into disease pathogenesis, we observed the 
dynamics of immune cells in the meninges by two-photon microscopy. Here we report
visualization of motile CTLs and massive secondary recruitment of pathogenic
monocytes and neutrophils that were required for vascular leakage and acute
lethality. CTLs expressed multiple chemoattractants capable of recruiting
myelomonocytic cells. We conclude that a CD8(+) T-cell-dependent disorder can
proceed in the absence of direct T-cell effector mechanisms and rely instead on
CTL-recruited myelomonocytic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07591 
PMCID: PMC2702264
PMID: 19011611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):187-90. doi: 10.1038/nature07467. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Neural processing of auditory feedback during vocal practice in a songbird.

Keller GB(1), Hahnloser RH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroinformatics, University of Zurich/ETH Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Songbirds are capable of vocal learning and communication and are ideally suited 
to the study of neural mechanisms of complex sensory and motor processing. Vocal 
communication in a noisy bird colony and vocal learning of a specific song
template both require the ability to monitor auditory feedback to distinguish
self-generated vocalizations from external sounds and to identify mismatches
between the developing song and a memorized template acquired from a tutor.
However, neurons that respond to auditory feedback from vocal output have not
been found in song-control areas despite intensive searching. Here we investigate
feedback processing outside the traditional song system, in single auditory
forebrain neurons of juvenile zebra finches that were in a late developmental
stage of song learning. Overall, we found similarity of spike responses during
singing and during playback of the bird's own song, with song responses commonly 
leading by a few milliseconds. However, brief time-locked acoustic perturbations 
of auditory feedback revealed complex sensitivity that could not be predicted
from passive playback responses. Some neurons that responded to playback
perturbations did not respond to song perturbations, which is reminiscent of
sensory-motor mirror neurons. By contrast, some neurons were highly feedback
sensitive in that they responded vigorously to song perturbations, but not to
unperturbed songs or perturbed playback. These findings suggest that a
computational function of forebrain auditory areas may be to detect errors
between actual feedback and mirrored feedback deriving from an internal model of 
the bird's own song or that of its tutor. Such feedback-sensitive spikes could
constitute the key signals that trigger adaptive motor responses to song
disruptions or reinforce exploratory motor gestures for vocal learning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07467 
PMID: 19005471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature07486. Epub 2008 Nov 12.

Memory CD8 T-cell compartment grows in size with immunological experience.

Vezys V(1), Yates A, Casey KA, Lanier G, Ahmed R, Antia R, Masopust D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Center for Immunology, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jun 4;459(7247):E3-4; discussion E4.

Memory CD8 T cells, generated by natural pathogen exposure or intentional
vaccination, protect the host against specific viral infections. It has long been
proposed that the number of memory CD8 T cells in the host is inflexible, and
that individual cells are constantly competing for limited space. Consequently,
vaccines that introduce over-abundant quantities of memory CD8 T cells specific
for an agent of interest could have catastrophic consequences for the host by
displacing memory CD8 T cells specific for all previous infections. To test this 
paradigm, we developed a vaccination regimen in mice that introduced as many new 
long-lived memory CD8 T cells specific for a single vaccine antigen as there were
memory CD8 T cells in the host before vaccination. Here we show that, in contrast
to expectations, the size of the memory CD8 T-cell compartment doubled to
accommodate these new cells, a change due solely to the addition of effector
memory CD8 T cells. This increase did not affect the number of CD4 T cells, B
cells or naive CD8 T cells, and pre-existing memory CD8 T cells specific for a
previously encountered infection were largely preserved. Thus, the number of
effector memory CD8 T cells in the mammalian host adapts according to
immunological experience. Developing vaccines that abundantly introduce new
memory CD8 T cells should not necessarily ablate pre-existing immunity to other
infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07486 
PMID: 19005468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature07479.

Chaperonin complex with a newly folded protein encapsulated in the folding
chamber.

Clare DK(1), Bakkes PJ, van Heerikhuizen H, van der Vies SM, Saibil HR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Crystallography and Institute for Structural and Molecular
Biology, Birkbeck College, Malet Street, London WC1E 7HX, UK.

A subset of essential cellular proteins requires the assistance of chaperonins
(in Escherichia coli, GroEL and GroES), double-ring complexes in which the two
rings act alternately to bind, encapsulate and fold a wide range of nascent or
stress-denatured proteins. This process starts by the trapping of a substrate
protein on hydrophobic surfaces in the central cavity of a GroEL ring. Then,
binding of ATP and co-chaperonin GroES to that ring ejects the non-native protein
from its binding sites, through forced unfolding or other major conformational
changes, and encloses it in a hydrophilic chamber for folding. ATP hydrolysis and
subsequent ATP binding to the opposite ring trigger dissociation of the chamber
and release of the substrate protein. The bacteriophage T4 requires its own
version of GroES, gp31, which forms a taller folding chamber, to fold the major
viral capsid protein gp23 (refs 16-20). Polypeptides are known to fold inside the
chaperonin complex, but the conformation of an encapsulated protein has not
previously been visualized. Here we present structures of gp23-chaperonin
complexes, showing both the initial captured state and the final, close-to-native
state with gp23 encapsulated in the folding chamber. Although the chamber is
expanded, it is still barely large enough to contain the elongated gp23 monomer, 
explaining why the GroEL-GroES complex is not able to fold gp23 and showing how
the chaperonin structure distorts to enclose a large, physiological substrate
protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07479 
PMCID: PMC2728927
PMID: 19122642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07623.

Carcinoma-produced factors activate myeloid cells through TLR2 to stimulate
metastasis.

Kim S(1), Takahashi H, Lin WW, Descargues P, Grivennikov S, Kim Y, Luo JL, Karin 
M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Center, School of Medicine, University
of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0723,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):36-7.

Metastatic progression depends on genetic alterations intrinsic to cancer cells
as well as the inflammatory microenvironment of advanced tumours. To understand
how cancer cells affect the inflammatory microenvironment, we conducted a
biochemical screen for macrophage-activating factors secreted by metastatic
carcinomas. Here we show that, among the cell lines screened, Lewis lung
carcinoma (LLC) were the most potent macrophage activators leading to production 
of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumour-necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) through
activation of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family members TLR2 and TLR6. Both
TNF-alpha and TLR2 were found to be required for LLC metastasis. Biochemical
purification of LLC-conditioned medium (LCM) led to identification of the
extracellular matrix proteoglycan versican, which is upregulated in many human
tumours including lung cancer, as a macrophage activator that acts through TLR2
and its co-receptors TLR6 and CD14. By activating TLR2:TLR6 complexes and
inducing TNF-alpha secretion by myeloid cells, versican strongly enhances LLC
metastatic growth. These results explain how advanced cancer cells usurp
components of the host innate immune system, including bone-marrow-derived
myeloid progenitors, to generate an inflammatory microenvironment hospitable for 
metastatic growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07623 
PMCID: PMC2746432
PMID: 19122641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature07601.

Indirect reciprocity provides only a narrow margin of efficiency for costly
punishment.

Ohtsuki H(1), Iwasa Y, Nowak MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Value and Decision Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo
152-8552, Japan. ohtsuki.h.aa@m.titech.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):39-40.

Indirect reciprocity is a key mechanism for the evolution of human cooperation.
Our behaviour towards other people depends not only on what they have done to us 
but also on what they have done to others. Indirect reciprocity works through
reputation. The standard model of indirect reciprocity offers a binary choice:
people can either cooperate or defect. Cooperation implies a cost for the donor
and a benefit for the recipient. Defection has no cost and yields no benefit.
Currently there is considerable interest in studying the effect of costly (or
altruistic) punishment on human behaviour. Punishment implies a cost for the
punished person. Costly punishment means that the punisher also pays a cost. It
has been suggested that costly punishment between individuals can promote
cooperation. Here we study the role of costly punishment in an explicit model of 
indirect reciprocity. We analyse all social norms, which depend on the action of 
the donor and the reputation of the recipient. We allow errors in assigning
reputation and study gossip as a mechanism for establishing coherence. We
characterize all strategies that allow the evolutionary stability of cooperation.
Some of those strategies use costly punishment; others do not. We find that
punishment strategies typically reduce the average payoff of the population.
Consequently, there is only a small parameter region where costly punishment
leads to an efficient equilibrium. In most cases the population does better by
not using costly punishment. The efficient strategy for indirect reciprocity is
to withhold help for defectors rather than punishing them.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07601 
PMCID: PMC2614697
PMID: 19122640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):76-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07650.

Seismic evidence for overpressured subducted oceanic crust and megathrust fault
sealing.

Audet P(1), Bostock MG, Christensen NI, Peacock SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada. paudet@berkeley.edu

Water and hydrous minerals play a key part in geodynamic processes at subduction 
zones by weakening the plate boundary, aiding slip and permitting subduction-and 
indeed plate tectonics-to occur. The seismological signature of water within the 
forearc mantle wedge is evident in anomalies with low seismic shear velocity
marking serpentinization. However, seismological observations bearing on the
presence of water within the subducting plate itself are less well documented.
Here we use converted teleseismic waves to obtain observations of anomalously
high Poisson's ratios within the subducted oceanic crust from the Cascadia
continental margin to its intersection with forearc mantle. On the basis of
pressure, temperature and compositional considerations, the elevated Poisson's
ratios indicate that water is pervasively present in fluid form at pore pressures
near lithostatic values. Combined with observations of a strong negative velocity
contrast at the top of the oceanic crust, our results imply that the megathrust
is a low-permeability boundary. The transition from a low- to high-permeability
plate interface downdip into the mantle wedge is explained by hydrofracturing of 
the seal by volume changes across the interface caused by the onset of crustal
eclogitization and mantle serpentinization. These results may have important
implications for our understanding of seismogenesis, subduction zone structure
and the mechanism of episodic tremor and slip.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07650 
PMID: 19122639 


888. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):71-5. doi: 10.1038/nature07593.

Optical manipulation of nanoparticles and biomolecules in sub-wavelength slot
waveguides.

Yang AH(1), Moore SD, Schmidt BS, Klug M, Lipson M, Erickson D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA.

The ability to manipulate nanoscopic matter precisely is critical for the
development of active nanosystems. Optical tweezers are excellent tools for
transporting particles ranging in size from several micrometres to a few hundred 
nanometres. Manipulation of dielectric objects with much smaller diameters,
however, requires stronger optical confinement and higher intensities than can be
provided by these diffraction-limited systems. Here we present an approach to
optofluidic transport that overcomes these limitations, using sub-wavelength
liquid-core slot waveguides. The technique simultaneously makes use of near-field
optical forces to confine matter inside the waveguide and scattering/adsorption
forces to transport it. The ability of the slot waveguide to condense the
accessible electromagnetic energy to scales as small as 60 nm allows us also to
overcome the fundamental diffraction problem. We apply the approach here to the
trapping and transport of 75-nm dielectric nanoparticles and lambda-DNA
molecules. Because trapping occurs along a line, rather than at a point as with
traditional point traps, the method provides the ability to handle extended
biomolecules directly. We also carry out a detailed numerical analysis that
relates the near-field optical forces to release kinetics. We believe that the
architecture demonstrated here will help to bridge the gap between optical
manipulation and nanofluidics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07593 
PMID: 19122638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):67-70. doi: 10.1038/nature07624.

Squeezing and over-squeezing of triphotons.

Shalm LK(1), Adamson RB, Steinberg AM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Quantum Information and Quantum Control, Institute for Optical
Sciences, Department of Physics, University of Toronto, 60 St George Street,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1A7. lshalm@physics.utoronto.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):35-6.

Quantum mechanics places a fundamental limit on the accuracy of measurements. In 
most circumstances, the measurement uncertainty is distributed equally between
pairs of complementary properties; this leads to the 'standard quantum limit' for
measurement resolution. Using a technique known as 'squeezing', it is possible to
reduce the uncertainty of one desired property below the standard quantum limit
at the expense of increasing that of the complementary one. Squeezing is already 
being used to enhance the sensitivity of gravity-wave detectors and may play a
critical role in other high precision applications, such as atomic clocks and
optical communications. Spin squeezing (the squeezing of angular momentum
variables) is a powerful tool, particularly in the context of quantum
light-matter interfaces. Although impressive gains in squeezing have been made,
optical spin-squeezed systems are still many orders of magnitude away from the
maximum possible squeezing, known as the Heisenberg uncertainty limit. Here we
demonstrate how an optical system can be squeezed essentially all the way to this
fundamental bound. We construct spin-squeezed states by overlapping three
indistinguishable photons in an optical fibre and manipulating their polarization
(spin), resulting in the formation of a squeezed composite particle known as a
'triphoton'. The symmetry properties of polarization imply that the measured
triphoton states can be most naturally represented by quasi-probability
distributions on the surface of a sphere. In this work we show that the spherical
topology of polarization imposes a limit on how much squeezing can occur, leading
to the quasi-probability distributions wrapping around the sphere-a phenomenon we
term 'over-squeezing'. Our observations of spin-squeezing in the few-photon
regime could lead to new quantum resources for enhanced measurement, lithography 
and information processing that can be precisely engineered photon-by-photon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07624 
PMID: 19122637 


890. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):63-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07609.

A role for self-gravity at multiple length scales in the process of star
formation.

Goodman AA(1), Rosolowsky EW, Borkin MA, Foster JB, Halle M, Kauffmann J, Pineda 
JE.

Author information: 
(1)Initiative in Innovative Computing at Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA. agoodman@cfa.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):37-9.

Self-gravity plays a decisive role in the final stages of star formation, where
dense cores (size approximately 0.1 parsecs) inside molecular clouds collapse to 
form star-plus-disk systems. But self-gravity's role at earlier times (and on
larger length scales, such as approximately 1 parsec) is unclear; some molecular 
cloud simulations that do not include self-gravity suggest that 'turbulent
fragmentation' alone is sufficient to create a mass distribution of dense cores
that resembles, and sets, the stellar initial mass function. Here we report a
'dendrogram' (hierarchical tree-diagram) analysis that reveals that self-gravity 
plays a significant role over the full range of possible scales traced by (13)CO 
observations in the L1448 molecular cloud, but not everywhere in the observed
region. In particular, more than 90 per cent of the compact 'pre-stellar cores'
traced by peaks of dust emission are projected on the sky within one of the
dendrogram's self-gravitating 'leaves'. As these peaks mark the locations of
already-forming stars, or of those probably about to form, a self-gravitating
cocoon seems a critical condition for their existence. Turbulent fragmentation
simulations without self-gravity-even of unmagnetized isothermal material-can
yield mass and velocity power spectra very similar to what is observed in clouds 
like L1448. But a dendrogram of such a simulation shows that nearly all the gas
in it (much more than in the observations) appears to be self-gravitating. A
potentially significant role for gravity in 'non-self-gravitating' simulations
suggests inconsistency in simulation assumptions and output, and that it is
necessary to include self-gravity in any realistic simulation of the
star-formation process on subparsec scales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07609 
PMCID: PMC3817203
PMID: 19122636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):51-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07618.

Cell-cycle restriction limits DNA damage and maintains self-renewal of leukaemia 
stem cells.

Viale A(1), De Franco F, Orleth A, Cambiaghi V, Giuliani V, Bossi D, Ronchini C, 
Ronzoni S, Muradore I, Monestiroli S, Gobbi A, Alcalay M, Minucci S, Pelicci PG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Oncology at the IFOM-IEO Campus, European Institute
of Oncology, IEO, 20141 Milan, Italy. andrea.viale@ifom-ieo-campus.it

Rare cells with the properties of stem cells are integral to the development and 
perpetuation of leukaemias. A defining characteristic of stem cells is their
capacity to self-renew, which is markedly extended in leukaemia stem cells. The
underlying molecular mechanisms, however, are largely unknown. Here we
demonstrate that expression of the cell-cycle inhibitor p21 is indispensable for 
maintaining self-renewal of leukaemia stem cells. Expression of
leukaemia-associated oncogenes in mouse haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) induces 
DNA damage and activates a p21-dependent cellular response, which leads to
reversible cell-cycle arrest and DNA repair. Activated p21 is critical in
preventing excess DNA-damage accumulation and functional exhaustion of leukaemic 
stem cells. These data unravel the oncogenic potential of p21 and suggest that
inhibition of DNA repair mechanisms might function as potent strategy for the
eradication of the slowly proliferating leukaemia stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07618 
PMID: 19122635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):41-50. doi: 10.1038/nature07621.

18 years of science with the Hubble Space Telescope.

Dalcanton JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
jd@astro.washington.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Feb 5;457(7230):657.

After several decades of planning, the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) was launched 
in 1990 as the first of NASA's Great Observatories. After a rocky start arising
from an error in the fabrication of its main mirror, it went on to change forever
many fields of astronomy, and to capture the public's imagination with its
images. An ongoing programme of servicing missions has kept the telescope on the 
cutting edge of astronomical research. Here I review the advances made possible
by the HST over the past 18 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07621 
PMID: 19122634 


893. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):57-62. doi: 10.1038/nature07668. Epub 2008 Dec 17.

WSTF regulates the H2A.X DNA damage response via a novel tyrosine kinase
activity.

Xiao A(1), Li H, Shechter D, Ahn SH, Fabrizio LA, Erdjument-Bromage H,
Ishibe-Murakami S, Wang B, Tempst P, Hofmann K, Patel DJ, Elledge SJ, Allis CD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromatin Biology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

DNA double-stranded breaks present a serious challenge for eukaryotic cells. The 
inability to repair breaks leads to genomic instability, carcinogenesis and cell 
death. During the double-strand break response, mammalian chromatin undergoes
reorganization demarcated by H2A.X Ser 139 phosphorylation (gamma-H2A.X).
However, the regulation of gamma-H2A.X phosphorylation and its precise role in
chromatin remodelling during the repair process remain unclear. Here we report a 
new regulatory mechanism mediated by WSTF (Williams-Beuren syndrome transcription
factor, also known as BAZ1B)-a component of the WICH complex (WSTF-ISWI
ATP-dependent chromatin-remodelling complex). We show that WSTF has intrinsic
tyrosine kinase activity by means of a domain that shares no sequence homology to
any known kinase fold. We show that WSTF phosphorylates Tyr 142 of H2A.X, and
that WSTF activity has an important role in regulating several events that are
critical for the DNA damage response. Our work demonstrates a new mechanism that 
regulates the DNA damage response and expands our knowledge of domains that
contain intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07668 
PMCID: PMC2854499
PMID: 19092802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature07639. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Detection of functional haematopoietic stem cell niche using real-time imaging.

Xie Y(1), Yin T, Wiegraebe W, He XC, Miller D, Stark D, Perko K, Alexander R,
Schwartz J, Grindley JC, Park J, Haug JS, Wunderlich JP, Li H, Zhang S, Johnson
T, Feldman RA, Li L.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 E. 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1134.

Haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) niches, although proposed decades ago, have only
recently been identified as separate osteoblastic and vascular microenvironments.
Their interrelationships and interactions with HSCs in vivo remain largely
unknown. Here we report the use of a newly developed ex vivo real-time imaging
technology and immunoassaying to trace the homing of purified
green-fluorescent-protein-expressing (GFP(+)) HSCs. We found that transplanted
HSCs tended to home to the endosteum (an inner bone surface) in irradiated mice, 
but were randomly distributed and unstable in non-irradiated mice. Moreover,
GFP(+) HSCs were more frequently detected in the trabecular bone area compared
with compact bone area, and this was validated by live imaging bioluminescence
driven by the stem-cell-leukaemia (Scl) promoter-enhancer. HSCs home to bone
marrow through the vascular system. We found that the endosteum is well
vascularized and that vasculature is frequently localized near N-cadherin(+)
pre-osteoblastic cells, a known niche component. By monitoring individual HSC
behaviour using real-time imaging, we found that a portion of the homed HSCs
underwent active division in the irradiated mice, coinciding with their expansion
as measured by flow assay. Thus, in contrast to central marrow, the endosteum
formed a special zone, which normally maintains HSCs but promotes their expansion
in response to bone marrow damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07639 
PMID: 19052548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):92-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07434. Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Live-animal tracking of individual haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells in their 
niche.

Lo Celso C(1), Fleming HE, Wu JW, Zhao CX, Miake-Lye S, Fujisaki J, Côté D, Rowe 
DW, Lin CP, Scadden DT.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 185
Cambridge Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Stem cells reside in a specialized, regulatory environment termed the niche that 
dictates how they generate, maintain and repair tissues. We have previously
documented that transplanted haematopoietic stem and progenitor cell populations 
localize to subdomains of bone-marrow microvessels where the chemokine CXCL12 is 
particularly abundant. Using a combination of high-resolution confocal microscopy
and two-photon video imaging of individual haematopoietic cells in the calvarium 
bone marrow of living mice over time, we examine the relationship of
haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells to blood vessels, osteoblasts and
endosteal surface as they home and engraft in irradiated and
c-Kit-receptor-deficient recipient mice. Osteoblasts were enmeshed in
microvessels and relative positioning of stem/progenitor cells within this
complex tissue was nonrandom and dynamic. Both cell autonomous and non-autonomous
factors influenced primitive cell localization. Different haematopoietic cell
subsets localized to distinct locations according to the stage of
differentiation. When physiological challenges drove either engraftment or
expansion, bone-marrow stem/progenitor cells assumed positions in close proximity
to bone and osteoblasts. Our analysis permits observing in real time, at a single
cell level, processes that previously have been studied only by their long-term
outcome at the organismal level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07434 
PMCID: PMC2820276
PMID: 19052546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature07481. Epub 2008 Nov 19.

Emergence of complex cell properties by learning to generalize in natural scenes.

Karklin Y(1), Lewicki MS.

Author information: 
(1)Computer Science Department & Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. yan.karklin@nyu.edu

A fundamental function of the visual system is to encode the building blocks of
natural scenes-edges, textures and shapes-that subserve visual tasks such as
object recognition and scene understanding. Essential to this process is the
formation of abstract representations that generalize from specific instances of 
visual input. A common view holds that neurons in the early visual system signal 
conjunctions of image features, but how these produce invariant representations
is poorly understood. Here we propose that to generalize over similar images,
higher-level visual neurons encode statistical variations that characterize local
image regions. We present a model in which neural activity encodes the
probability distribution most consistent with a given image. Trained on natural
images, the model generalizes by learning a compact set of dictionary elements
for image distributions typically encountered in natural scenes. Model neurons
show a diverse range of properties observed in cortical cells. These results
provide a new functional explanation for nonlinear effects in complex cells and
offer insight into coding strategies in primary visual cortex (V1) and higher
visual areas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07481 
PMID: 19020501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature07469. Epub 2008 Nov 9.

Immune control of an SIV challenge by a T-cell-based vaccine in rhesus monkeys.

Liu J(1), O'Brien KL, Lynch DM, Simmons NL, La Porte A, Riggs AM, Abbink P,
Coffey RT, Grandpre LE, Seaman MS, Landucci G, Forthal DN, Montefiori DC,
Carville A, Mansfield KG, Havenga MJ, Pau MG, Goudsmit J, Barouch DH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Viral Pathogenesis, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

A recombinant adenovirus serotype 5 (rAd5) vector-based vaccine for HIV-1 has
recently failed in a phase 2b efficacy study in humans. Consistent with these
results, preclinical studies have demonstrated that rAd5 vectors expressing
simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) Gag failed to reduce peak or setpoint viral
loads after SIV challenge of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that lacked the
protective MHC class I allele Mamu-A*01 (ref. 3). Here we show that an improved
T-cell-based vaccine regimen using two serologically distinct adenovirus vectors 
afforded substantially improved protective efficacy in this challenge model. In
particular, a heterologous rAd26 prime/rAd5 boost vaccine regimen expressing SIV 
Gag elicited cellular immune responses with augmented magnitude, breadth and
polyfunctionality as compared with the homologous rAd5 regimen. After SIV(MAC251)
challenge, monkeys vaccinated with the rAd26/rAd5 regimen showed a 1.4 log
reduction of peak and a 2.4 log reduction of setpoint viral loads as well as
decreased AIDS-related mortality as compared with control animals. These data
demonstrate that durable partial immune control of a pathogenic SIV challenge for
more than 500 days can be achieved by a T-cell-based vaccine in
Mamu-A*01-negative rhesus monkeys in the absence of a homologous Env antigen.
These findings have important implications for the development of next-generation
T-cell-based vaccine candidates for HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07469 
PMCID: PMC2614452
PMID: 18997770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):111-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07462. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

X-ray structure of a pentameric ligand-gated ion channel in an apparently open
conformation.

Bocquet N(1), Nury H, Baaden M, Le Poupon C, Changeux JP, Delarue M, Corringer
PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pasteur Institute, G5 Group of Channel-Receptor, CNRS URA 2182.

Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels from the Cys-loop family mediate fast
chemo-electrical transduction, but the mechanisms of ion permeation and gating of
these membrane proteins remain elusive. Here we present the X-ray structure at
2.9 A resolution of the bacterial Gloeobacter violaceus pentameric ligand-gated
ion channel homologue (GLIC) at pH 4.6 in an apparently open conformation. This
cationic channel is known to be permanently activated by protons. The structure
is arranged as a funnel-shaped transmembrane pore widely open on the outer side
and lined by hydrophobic residues. On the inner side, a 5 A constriction matches 
with rings of hydrophilic residues that are likely to contribute to the ionic
selectivity. Structural comparison with ELIC, a bacterial homologue from Erwinia 
chrysanthemi solved in a presumed closed conformation, shows a wider pore where
the narrow hydrophobic constriction found in ELIC is removed. Comparative
analysis of GLIC and ELIC reveals, in concert, a rotation of each extracellular
beta-sandwich domain as a rigid body, interface rearrangements, and a
reorganization of the transmembrane domain, involving a tilt of the M2 and M3
alpha-helices away from the pore axis. These data are consistent with a model of 
pore opening based on both quaternary twist and tertiary deformation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07462 
PMID: 18987633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nature. 2009 Jan 1;457(7225):115-8. doi: 10.1038/nature07461. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

Structure of a potentially open state of a proton-activated pentameric
ligand-gated ion channel.

Hilf RJ(1), Dutzler R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

The X-ray structure of a pentameric ligand-gated ion channel from Erwinia
chrysanthemi (ELIC) has recently provided structural insight into this family of 
ion channels at high resolution. The structure shows a homo-pentameric protein
with a barrel-stave architecture that defines an ion-conduction pore located on
the fivefold axis of symmetry. In this structure, the wide aqueous vestibule that
is encircled by the extracellular ligand-binding domains of the five subunits
narrows to a discontinuous pore that spans the lipid bilayer. The pore is
constricted by bulky hydrophobic residues towards the extracellular side, which
probably serve as barriers that prevent the diffusion of ions. This interrupted
pore architecture in ELIC thus depicts a non-conducting conformation of a
pentameric ligand-gated ion channel, the thermodynamically stable state in the
absence of bound ligand. As ligand binding promotes pore opening in these ion
channels and the specific ligand for ELIC has not yet been identified, we have
turned our attention towards a homologous protein from the cyanobacterium
Gloebacter violaceus (GLIC). GLIC was shown to form proton-gated channels that
are activated by a pH decrease on the extracellular side and that do not
desensitize after activation. Both prokaryotic proteins, ELIC and GLIC form ion
channels that are selective for cations over anions with poor discrimination
among monovalent cations, characteristics that resemble the conduction properties
of the cation-selective branch of the family that includes acetylcholine and
serotonin receptors. Here we present the X-ray structure of GLIC at 3.1 A
resolution. The structure reveals a conformation of the channel that is distinct 
from ELIC and that probably resembles the open state. In combination, both
structures suggest a novel gating mechanism for pentameric ligand-gated ion
channels where channel opening proceeds by a change in the tilt of the
pore-forming helices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07461 
PMID: 18987630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

