
1. Nature. 2011 Dec 25;481(7381):357-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10723.

Recovery rates reflect distance to a tipping point in a living system.

Veraart AJ(1), Faassen EJ, Dakos V, van Nes EH, Lürling M, Scheffer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Aquatic Ecology and Water Quality Management, Wageningen
University, PO Box 47, NL-6700 AA, Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 19;484(7394):404.

Tipping points, at which complex systems can shift abruptly from one state to
another, are notoriously difficult to predict. Theory proposes that early warning
signals may be based on the phenomenon that recovery rates from small
perturbations should tend to zero when approaching a tipping point; however,
evidence that this happens in living systems is lacking. Here we test such
'critical slowing down' using a microcosm in which photo-inhibition drives a
cyanobacterial population to a classical tipping point when a critical light
level is exceeded. We show that over a large range of conditions, recovery from
small perturbations becomes slower as the system comes closer to the critical
point. In addition, autocorrelation in the subtle fluctuations of the system's
state rose towards the tipping point, supporting the idea that this metric can be
used as an indirect indicator of slowing down. Although stochasticity prohibits
prediction of the timing of critical transitions, our results suggest that
indicators of slowing down may be used to rank complex systems on a broad scale
from resilient to fragile.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10723 
PMID: 22198671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2011 Dec 25;481(7382):502-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10732.

Purkinje neuron synchrony elicits time-locked spiking in the cerebellar nuclei.

Person AL(1), Raman IM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA. a-person@northwestern.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):446-7.

An unusual feature of the cerebellar cortex is that its output neurons, Purkinje 
cells, release GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid). Their high intrinsic firing rates
(50 Hz) and extensive convergence predict that their target neurons in the
cerebellar nuclei would be largely inhibited unless Purkinje cells pause their
spiking, yet Purkinje and nuclear neuron firing rates do not always vary
inversely. One indication of how these synapses transmit information is that
populations of Purkinje neurons synchronize their spikes during cerebellar
behaviours. If nuclear neurons respond to Purkinje synchrony, they may encode
signals from subsets of inhibitory inputs. Here we show in weanling and adult
mice that nuclear neurons transmit the timing of synchronous Purkinje afferent
spikes, owing to modest Purkinje-to-nuclear convergence ratios (∼40:1), fast
inhibitory postsynaptic current kinetics (τ(decay) = 2.5 ms) and high intrinsic
firing rates (∼90 Hz). In vitro, dynamically clamped asynchronous inhibitory
postsynaptic potentials mimicking Purkinje afferents suppress nuclear cell
spiking, whereas synchronous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials entrain nuclear
cell spiking. With partial synchrony, nuclear neurons time-lock their spikes to
the synchronous subpopulation of inputs, even when only 2 out of 40 afferents
synchronize. In vivo, nuclear neurons reliably phase-lock to regular trains of
molecular layer stimulation. Thus, cerebellar nuclear neurons can preferentially 
relay the spike timing of synchronized Purkinje cells to downstream premotor
areas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10732 
PMCID: PMC3268051
PMID: 22198670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2011 Dec 25;481(7380):195-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10712.

Ars2 maintains neural stem-cell identity through direct transcriptional
activation of Sox2.

Andreu-Agullo C(1), Maurin T, Thompson CB, Lai EC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Sloan-Kettering Institute, 1275 York
Avenue, Box 252, New York, New York 10065, USA. andreuac@mskcc.org

Fundamental questions remain unanswered about the transcriptional networks that
control the identity and self-renewal of neural stem cells (NSCs), a specialized 
subset of astroglial cells that are endowed with stem properties and neurogenic
capacity. Here we report that the zinc finger protein Ars2 (arsenite-resistance
protein 2; also known as Srrt) is expressed by adult NSCs from the subventricular
zone (SVZ) of mice, and that selective knockdown of Ars2 in cells expressing
glial fibrillary acidic protein within the adult SVZ depletes the number of NSCs 
and their neurogenic capacity. These phenotypes are recapitulated in the
postnatal SVZ of hGFAP-cre::Ars2(fl/fl) conditional knockout mice, but are more
severe. Ex vivo assays show that Ars2 is necessary and sufficient to promote NSC 
self-renewal, and that it does so by positively regulating the expression of
Sox2. Although plant and animal orthologues of Ars2 are known for their conserved
roles in microRNA biogenesis, we unexpectedly observed that Ars2 retains its
capacity to promote self-renewal in Drosha and Dicer1 knockout NSCs. Instead,
chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that Ars2 binds a specific region within
the 6-kilobase NSC enhancer of Sox2. This association is RNA-independent, and the
region that is bound is required for Ars2-mediated activation of Sox2. We used
gel-shift analysis to refine the Sox2 region bound by Ars2 to a specific
conserved DNA sequence. The importance of Sox2 as a critical downstream effector 
is shown by its ability to restore the self-renewal and multipotency defects of
Ars2 knockout NSCs. Our findings reveal Ars2 as a new transcription factor that
controls the multipotent progenitor state of NSCs through direct activation of
the pluripotency factor Sox2.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10712 
PMCID: PMC3261657
PMID: 22198669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;480(7378):509-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10685.

Forcing of wet phases in southeast Africa over the past 17,000 years.

Schefuss E(1), Kuhlmann H, Mollenhauer G, Prange M, Pätzold J.

Author information: 
(1)MARUM - Center for Marine Environmental Sciences and Faculty of Geosciences,
University of Bremen, D-28359 Bremen, Germany. schefuss@uni-bremen.de

Intense debate persists about the climatic mechanisms governing hydrologic
changes in tropical and subtropical southeast Africa since the Last Glacial
Maximum, about 20,000 years ago. In particular, the relative importance of
atmospheric and oceanic processes is not firmly established. Southward shifts of 
the intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ) driven by high-latitude climate changes
have been suggested as a primary forcing, whereas other studies infer a
predominant influence of Indian Ocean sea surface temperatures on regional
rainfall changes. To address this question, a continuous record representing an
integrated signal of regional climate variability is required, but has until now 
been missing. Here we show that remote atmospheric forcing by cold events in the 
northern high latitudes appears to have been the main driver of hydro-climatology
in southeast Africa during rapid climate changes over the past 17,000 years. Our 
results are based on a reconstruction of precipitation and river discharge
changes, as recorded in a marine sediment core off the mouth of the Zambezi
River, near the southern boundary of the modern seasonal ITCZ migration. Indian
Ocean sea surface temperatures did not exert a primary control over southeast
African hydrologic variability. Instead, phases of high precipitation and
terrestrial discharge occurred when the ITCZ was forced southwards during
Northern Hemisphere cold events, such as Heinrich stadial 1 (around 16,000 years 
ago) and the Younger Dryas (around 12,000 years ago), or when local summer
insolation was high in the late Holocene, that is, during the past 4,000 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10685 
PMID: 22193106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;480(7378):504-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10683.

Tuning charge transport in solution-sheared organic semiconductors using lattice 
strain.

Giri G(1), Verploegen E, Mannsfeld SC, Atahan-Evrenk S, Kim DH, Lee SY, Becerril 
HA, Aspuru-Guzik A, Toney MF, Bao Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305, USA.

Circuits based on organic semiconductors are being actively explored for
flexible, transparent and low-cost electronic applications. But to realize such
applications, the charge carrier mobilities of solution-processed organic
semiconductors must be improved. For inorganic semiconductors, a general method
of increasing charge carrier mobility is to introduce strain within the crystal
lattice. Here we describe a solution-processing technique for organic
semiconductors in which lattice strain is used to increase charge carrier
mobilities by introducing greater electron orbital overlap between the component 
molecules. For organic semiconductors, the spacing between cofacially stacked,
conjugated backbones (the π-π stacking distance) greatly influences electron
orbital overlap and therefore mobility. Using our method to incrementally
introduce lattice strain, we alter the π-π stacking distance of
6,13-bis(triisopropylsilylethynyl) pentacene (TIPS-pentacene) from 3.33 Å to
3.08 Å. We believe that 3.08 Å is the shortest π-π stacking distance that has
been achieved in an organic semiconductor crystal lattice (although a π-π
distance of 3.04 Å has been achieved through intramolecular bonding). The
positive charge carrier (hole) mobility in TIPS-pentacene transistors increased
from 0.8 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1) for unstrained films to a high mobility of
4.6 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1) for a strained film. Using solution processing to modify
molecular packing through lattice strain should aid the development of
high-performance, low-cost organic semiconducting devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10683 
PMID: 22193105 


6. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;480(7378):500-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10668.

Orbital excitation blockade and algorithmic cooling in quantum gases.

Bakr WS(1), Preiss PM, Tai ME, Ma R, Simon J, Greiner M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 22;480(7378):463, 465.

Interaction blockade occurs when strong interactions in a confined, few-body
system prevent a particle from occupying an otherwise accessible quantum state.
Blockade phenomena reveal the underlying granular nature of quantum systems and
allow for the detection and manipulation of the constituent particles, be they
electrons, spins, atoms or photons. Applications include single-electron
transistors based on electronic Coulomb blockade and quantum logic gates in
Rydberg atoms. Here we report a form of interaction blockade that occurs when
transferring ultracold atoms between orbitals in an optical lattice. We call this
orbital excitation blockade (OEB). In this system, atoms at the same lattice site
undergo coherent collisions described by a contact interaction whose strength
depends strongly on the orbital wavefunctions of the atoms. We induce coherent
orbital excitations by modulating the lattice depth, and observe staircase-like
excitation behaviour as we cross the interaction-split resonances by tuning the
modulation frequency. As an application of OEB, we demonstrate algorithmic
cooling of quantum gases: a sequence of reversible OEB-based quantum operations
isolates the entropy in one part of the system and then an irreversible step
removes the entropy from the gas. This technique may make it possible to cool
quantum gases to have the ultralow entropies required for quantum simulation of
strongly correlated electron systems. In addition, the close analogy between OEB 
and dipole blockade in Rydberg atoms provides a plan for the implementation of
two-quantum-bit gates in a quantum computing architecture with natural
scalability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10668 
PMID: 22193104 


7. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;480(7378):496-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10631.

A compact system of small planets around a former red-giant star.

Charpinet S(1), Fontaine G, Brassard P, Green EM, Van Grootel V, Randall SK,
Silvotti R, Baran AS, Ostensen RH, Kawaler SD, Telting JH.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS-OMP, IRAP, F-31400 Toulouse, France.
stephane.charpinet@ast.obs-mip.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 22;480(7378):460-1.

Planets that orbit their parent star at less than about one astronomical unit
(1 AU is the Earth-Sun distance) are expected to be engulfed when the star
becomes a red giant. Previous observations have revealed the existence of
post-red-giant host stars with giant planets orbiting as close as 0.116 AU or
with brown dwarf companions in tight orbits, showing that these bodies can
survive engulfment. What has remained unclear is whether planets can be dragged
deeper into the red-giant envelope without being disrupted and whether the
evolution of the parent star itself could be affected. Here we report the
presence of two nearly Earth-sized bodies orbiting the post-red-giant, hot B
subdwarf star KIC 05807616 at distances of 0.0060 and 0.0076 AU, with orbital
periods of 5.7625 and 8.2293 hours, respectively. These bodies probably survived 
deep immersion in the former red-giant envelope. They may be the dense cores of
evaporated giant planets that were transported closer to the star during the
engulfment and triggered the mass loss necessary for the formation of the hot B
subdwarf, which might also explain how some stars of this type did not form in
binary systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10631 
PMID: 22193103 


8. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;480(7378):480-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10673.

Cancer immunotherapy comes of age.

Mellman I(1), Coukos G, Dranoff G.

Author information: 
(1)Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
mellman.ira@gene.com

Activating the immune system for therapeutic benefit in cancer has long been a
goal in immunology and oncology. After decades of disappointment, the tide has
finally changed due to the success of recent proof-of-concept clinical trials.
Most notable has been the ability of the anti-CTLA4 antibody, ipilimumab, to
achieve a significant increase in survival for patients with metastatic melanoma,
for which conventional therapies have failed. In the context of advances in the
understanding of how tolerance, immunity and immunosuppression regulate
antitumour immune responses together with the advent of targeted therapies, these
successes suggest that active immunotherapy represents a path to obtain a durable
and long-lasting response in cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10673 
PMCID: PMC3967235
PMID: 22193102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;480(7378):471-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10702.

Rethinking amide bond synthesis.

Pattabiraman VR(1), Bode JW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium für Organische Chemie, ETH Zürich, 8093 Zürich, Switzerland.

One of the most important reactions in organic chemistry--amide bond
formation--is often overlooked as a contemporary challenge because of the
widespread occurrence of amides in modern pharmaceuticals and biologically active
compounds. But existing methods are reaching their inherent limits, and concerns 
about their waste and expense are becoming sharper. Novel chemical approaches to 
amide formation are therefore being developed. Here we review and summarize a new
generation of amide-forming reactions that may contribute to solving these
problems. We also consider their potential application to current synthetic
challenges, including the development of catalytic amide formation, the synthesis
of therapeutic peptides and the preparation of modified peptides and proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10702 
PMID: 22193101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;481(7380):185-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10726.

Topoisomerase inhibitors unsilence the dormant allele of Ube3a in neurons.

Huang HS(1), Allen JA, Mabb AM, King IF, Miriyala J, Taylor-Blake B, Sciaky N,
Dutton JW Jr, Lee HM, Chen X, Jin J, Bridges AS, Zylka MJ, Roth BL, Philpot BD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Physiology, University of North Carolina
School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 12;481(7380):150-2.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Feb;8(2):62.

Angelman syndrome is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder caused by deletion or
mutation of the maternal allele of the ubiquitin protein ligase E3A (UBE3A). In
neurons, the paternal allele of UBE3A is intact but epigenetically silenced,
raising the possibility that Angelman syndrome could be treated by activating
this silenced allele to restore functional UBE3A protein. Using an unbiased,
high-content screen in primary cortical neurons from mice, we identify twelve
topoisomerase I inhibitors and four topoisomerase II inhibitors that unsilence
the paternal Ube3a allele. These drugs included topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide 
and dexrazoxane (ICRF-187). At nanomolar concentrations, topotecan upregulated
catalytically active UBE3A in neurons from maternal Ube3a-null mice. Topotecan
concomitantly downregulated expression of the Ube3a antisense transcript that
overlaps the paternal copy of Ube3a. These results indicate that topotecan
unsilences Ube3a in cis by reducing transcription of an imprinted antisense RNA. 
When administered in vivo, topotecan unsilenced the paternal Ube3a allele in
several regions of the nervous system, including neurons in the hippocampus,
neocortex, striatum, cerebellum and spinal cord. Paternal expression of Ube3a
remained elevated in a subset of spinal cord neurons for at least 12  weeks after
cessation of topotecan treatment, indicating that transient topoisomerase
inhibition can have enduring effects on gene expression. Although potential
off-target effects remain to be investigated, our findings suggest a therapeutic 
strategy for reactivating the functional but dormant allele of Ube3a in patients 
with Angelman syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10726 
PMCID: PMC3257422
PMID: 22190039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;481(7381):371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10693.

Vif hijacks CBF-β to degrade APOBEC3G and promote HIV-1 infection.

Jäger S(1), Kim DY, Hultquist JF, Shindo K, LaRue RS, Kwon E, Li M, Anderson BD, 
Yen L, Stanley D, Mahon C, Kane J, Franks-Skiba K, Cimermancic P, Burlingame A,
Sali A, Craik CS, Harris RS, Gross JD, Krogan NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of
California-San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Feb;10(2):81.

Restriction factors, such as the retroviral complementary DNA deaminase APOBEC3G,
are cellular proteins that dominantly block virus replication. The AIDS virus,
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), produces the accessory factor Vif,
which counteracts the host's antiviral defence by hijacking a ubiquitin ligase
complex, containing CUL5, ELOC, ELOB and a RING-box protein, and targeting
APOBEC3G for degradation. Here we reveal, using an affinity tag/purification mass
spectrometry approach, that Vif additionally recruits the transcription cofactor 
CBF-β to this ubiquitin ligase complex. CBF-β, which normally functions in
concert with RUNX DNA binding proteins, allows the reconstitution of a
recombinant six-protein assembly that elicits specific polyubiquitination
activity with APOBEC3G, but not the related deaminase APOBEC3A. Using RNA
knockdown and genetic complementation studies, we also demonstrate that CBF-β is 
required for Vif-mediated degradation of APOBEC3G and therefore for preserving
HIV-1 infectivity. Finally, simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) Vif also binds to
and requires CBF-β to degrade rhesus macaque APOBEC3G, indicating functional
conservation. Methods of disrupting the CBF-β-Vif interaction might enable HIV-1 
restriction and provide a supplement to current antiviral therapies that
primarily target viral proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10693 
PMCID: PMC3310910
PMID: 22190037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;481(7381):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10718.

T-cell differentiation factor CBF-β regulates HIV-1 Vif-mediated evasion of host 
restriction.

Zhang W(1), Du J, Evans SL, Yu Y, Yu XF.

Author information: 
(1)First Hospital of Jilin University, Institute of Virology and AIDS Research,
Changchun, Jilin Province 130021, China.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Feb;10(2):81.

The human APOBEC3 cytidine deaminases are potent inhibitors of diverse
retroviruses, including human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1). HIV-1 Vif forms
an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with cullin 5 (CUL5), elongin B and elongin C ,
which promotes the polyubiquitination and degradation of APOBEC3 substrates. Here
we demonstrate in human T cells that core binding factor β (CBF-β) is a key
regulator of the evasion of HIV-1 from the host defence mediated by APOBEC3.
CBF-β, the non-DNA-binding subunit of a heterodimeric transcription factor,
regulates the folding and DNA-binding activity of partner RUNX family proteins,
which have important roles in the development and differentiation of diverse cell
types, including T lymphocytes. In our study, knockdown of endogenous CBF-β
blocked Vif-induced APOBEC3G polyubiquitination and degradation. CBF-β was not
required for the interaction between Vif and APOBEC3G, yet was essential for the 
assembly of the Vif-CUL5 E3-ubiquitin-ligase complex. CBF-β proved to be a unique
regulator of primate lentiviral Vif and not a general component of the CUL5 E3
ubiquitin ligase. We show that Vif and CBF-β physically interact, and that the
amino-terminal region of Vif is required for this interaction. Furthermore,
interactions with Vif required regions in CBF-β that are not involved in RUNX
protein binding. Considering the importance of the interaction between Vif and
CBF-β, disrupting this interaction represents an attractive pharmacological
intervention against HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10718 
PMID: 22190036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;481(7380):173-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10704.

Charge order and three-site distortions in the Verwey structure of magnetite.

Senn MS(1), Wright JP, Attfield JP.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions and School of Chemistry, University
of Edinburgh, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JZ, UK.

The mineral magnetite (Fe(3)O(4)) undergoes a complex structural distortion and
becomes electrically insulating at temperatures less than 125 kelvin. Verwey
proposed in 1939 that this transition is driven by a charge ordering of Fe(2+)
and Fe(3+) ions, but the ground state of the low-temperature phase has remained
contentious because twinning of crystal domains hampers diffraction studies of
the structure. Recent powder diffraction refinements and resonant X-ray studies
have led to proposals of a variety of charge-ordered and bond-dimerized
ground-state models. Here we report the full low-temperature superstructure of
magnetite, determined by high-energy X-ray diffraction from an almost
single-domain, 40-micrometre grain, and identify the emergent order. The acentric
structure is described by a superposition of 168 atomic displacement waves
(frozen phonon modes), all with amplitudes of less than 0.24 ångströms.
Distortions of the FeO(6) octahedra show that Verwey's hypothesis is correct to a
first approximation and that the charge and Fe(2+) orbital order are consistent
with a recent prediction. However, anomalous shortening of some Fe-Fe distances
suggests that the localized electrons are distributed over linear three-Fe-site
units, which we call 'trimerons'. The charge order and three-site distortions
induce substantial off-centre atomic displacements and couple the resulting large
electrical polarization to the magnetization. Trimerons may be important
quasiparticles in magnetite above the Verwey transition and in other transition
metal oxides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10704 
PMID: 22190035 


14. Nature. 2011 Dec 21;481(7381):365-70. doi: 10.1038/nature10719.

Global landscape of HIV-human protein complexes.

Jäger S(1), Cimermancic P, Gulbahce N, Johnson JR, McGovern KE, Clarke SC, Shales
M, Mercenne G, Pache L, Li K, Hernandez H, Jang GM, Roth SL, Akiva E, Marlett J, 
Stephens M, D'Orso I, Fernandes J, Fahey M, Mahon C, O'Donoghue AJ, Todorovic A, 
Morris JH, Maltby DA, Alber T, Cagney G, Bushman FD, Young JA, Chanda SK,
Sundquist WI, Kortemme T, Hernandez RD, Craik CS, Burlingame A, Sali A, Frankel
AD, Krogan NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California,
San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Feb;10(2):81.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has a small genome and therefore relies
heavily on the host cellular machinery to replicate. Identifying which host
proteins and complexes come into physical contact with the viral proteins is
crucial for a comprehensive understanding of how HIV rewires the host's cellular 
machinery during the course of infection. Here we report the use of affinity
tagging and purification mass spectrometry to determine systematically the
physical interactions of all 18 HIV-1 proteins and polyproteins with host
proteins in two different human cell lines (HEK293 and Jurkat). Using a
quantitative scoring system that we call MiST, we identified with high confidence
497 HIV-human protein-protein interactions involving 435 individual human
proteins, with ∼40% of the interactions being identified in both cell types. We
found that the host proteins hijacked by HIV, especially those found interacting 
in both cell types, are highly conserved across primates. We uncovered a number
of host complexes targeted by viral proteins, including the finding that HIV
protease cleaves eIF3d, a subunit of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3. 
This host protein is one of eleven identified in this analysis that act to
inhibit HIV replication. This data set facilitates a more comprehensive and
detailed understanding of how the host machinery is manipulated during the course
of HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10719 
PMCID: PMC3310911
PMID: 22190034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 2011 Dec 20;482(7384):195-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10780.

Two Earth-sized planets orbiting Kepler-20.

Fressin F(1), Torres G, Rowe JF, Charbonneau D, Rogers LA, Ballard S, Batalha NM,
Borucki WJ, Bryson ST, Buchhave LA, Ciardi DR, Désert JM, Dressing CD, Fabrycky
DC, Ford EB, Gautier TN 3rd, Henze CE, Holman MJ, Howard A, Howell SB, Jenkins
JM, Koch DG, Latham DW, Lissauer JJ, Marcy GW, Quinn SN, Ragozzine D, Sasselov
DD, Seager S, Barclay T, Mullally F, Seader SE, Still M, Twicken JD, Thompson SE,
Uddin K.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. ffressin@cfa.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 9;482(7384):166-7.

Since the discovery of the first extrasolar giant planets around Sun-like stars, 
evolving observational capabilities have brought us closer to the detection of
true Earth analogues. The size of an exoplanet can be determined when it
periodically passes in front of (transits) its parent star, causing a decrease in
starlight proportional to its radius. The smallest exoplanet hitherto discovered 
has a radius 1.42 times that of the Earth's radius (R(⊕)), and hence has 2.9
times its volume. Here we report the discovery of two planets, one Earth-sized
(1.03R(⊕)) and the other smaller than the Earth (0.87R(⊕)), orbiting the star
Kepler-20, which is already known to host three other, larger, transiting
planets. The gravitational pull of the new planets on the parent star is too
small to measure with current instrumentation. We apply a statistical method to
show that the likelihood of the planetary interpretation of the transit signals
is more than three orders of magnitude larger than that of the alternative
hypothesis that the signals result from an eclipsing binary star. Theoretical
considerations imply that these planets are rocky, with a composition of iron and
silicate. The outer planet could have developed a thick water vapour atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10780 
PMID: 22186831 


16. Nature. 2011 Dec 18;481(7379):39-44. doi: 10.1038/nature10722.

A sensing array of radically coupled genetic 'biopixels'.

Prindle A(1), Samayoa P, Razinkov I, Danino T, Tsimring LS, Hasty J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 5;481(7379):33.

Although there has been considerable progress in the development of engineering
principles for synthetic biology, a substantial challenge is the construction of 
robust circuits in a noisy cellular environment. Such an environment leads to
considerable intercellular variability in circuit behaviour, which can hinder
functionality at the colony level. Here we engineer the synchronization of
thousands of oscillating colony 'biopixels' over centimetre-length scales through
the use of synergistic intercellular coupling involving quorum sensing within a
colony and gas-phase redox signalling between colonies. We use this platform to
construct a liquid crystal display (LCD)-like macroscopic clock that can be used 
to sense arsenic via modulation of the oscillatory period. Given the repertoire
of sensing capabilities of bacteria such as Escherichia coli, the ability to
coordinate their behaviour over large length scales sets the stage for the
construction of low cost genetic biosensors that are capable of detecting heavy
metals and pathogens in the field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10722 
PMCID: PMC3259005
PMID: 22178928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 2011 Dec 18;481(7380):209-13. doi: 10.1038/nature10697.

Basic amino-acid side chains regulate transmembrane integrin signalling.

Kim C(1), Schmidt T, Cho EG, Ye F, Ulmer TS, Ginsberg MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 May 30;497(7451):652.

Side chains of Lys/Arg near transmembrane domain (TMD) membrane-water interfaces 
can 'snorkel', placing their positive charge near negatively charged phospholipid
head groups; however, snorkelling's functional effects are obscure. Integrin β
TMDs have such conserved basic amino acids. Here we use NMR spectroscopy to show 
that integrin β(3)(Lys 716) helps determine β(3) TMD topography. The α(ΙΙb)β(3)
TMD structure indicates that precise β(3) TMD crossing angles enable the assembly
of outer and inner membrane 'clasps' that hold the αβ TMD together to limit
transmembrane signalling. Mutation of β(3)(Lys 716) caused dissociation of
α(ΙΙb)β(3) TMDs and integrin activation. To confirm that altered topography of
β(3)(Lys 716) mutants activated α(ΙΙb)β(3), we used directed evolution of
β(3)(K716A) to identify substitutions restoring default state. Introduction of
Pro(711) at the midpoint of β(3) TMD (A711P) increased α(ΙΙb)β(3) TMD association
and inactivated integrin α(ΙΙb)β(3)(A711P,K716A). β(3)(Pro 711) introduced a TMD 
kink of 30 ± 1° precisely at the border of the outer and inner membrane clasps,
thereby decoupling the tilt between these segments. Thus, widely occurring
snorkelling residues in TMDs can help maintain TMD topography and
membrane-embedding, thereby regulating transmembrane signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10697 
PMCID: PMC3257387
PMID: 22178926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 2011 Dec 18;481(7379):45-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10703.

Antiparallel EmrE exports drugs by exchanging between asymmetric structures.

Morrison EA(1), DeKoster GT, Dutta S, Vafabakhsh R, Clarkson MW, Bahl A, Kern D, 
Ha T, Henzler-Wildman KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Small multidrug resistance transporters provide an ideal system to study the
minimal requirements for active transport. EmrE is one such transporter in
Escherichia coli. It exports a broad class of polyaromatic cation substrates,
thus conferring resistance to drug compounds matching this chemical description. 
However, a great deal of controversy has surrounded the topology of the EmrE
homodimer. Here we show that asymmetric antiparallel EmrE exchanges between
inward- and outward-facing states that are identical except that they have
opposite orientation in the membrane. We quantitatively measure the global
conformational exchange between these two states for substrate-bound EmrE in
bicelles using solution NMR dynamics experiments. Förster resonance energy
transfer reveals that the monomers within each dimer are antiparallel, and
paramagnetic relaxation enhancement NMR experiments demonstrate differential
water accessibility of the two monomers within each dimer. Our experiments reveal
a 'dynamic symmetry' that reconciles the asymmetric EmrE structure with the
functional symmetry of residues in the active site.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10703 
PMCID: PMC3253143
PMID: 22178925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2011 Dec 18;481(7380):214-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10699.

Subnanometre-resolution structure of the intact Thermus thermophilus H+-driven
ATP synthase.

Lau WC(1), Rubinstein JL.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Structure and Function Program, The Hospital for Sick Children
Research Institute, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.

Ion-translocating rotary ATPases serve either as ATP synthases, using energy from
a transmembrane ion motive force to create the cell's supply of ATP, or as
transmembrane ion pumps that are powered by ATP hydrolysis. The members of this
family of enzymes each contain two rotary motors: one that couples ion
translocation to rotation and one that couples rotation to ATP synthesis or
hydrolysis. During ATP synthesis, ion translocation through the membrane-bound
region of the complex causes rotation of a central rotor that drives
conformational changes and ATP synthesis in the catalytic region of the complex. 
There are no structural models available for the intact membrane region of any
ion-translocating rotary ATPase. Here we present a 9.7 Å resolution map of the
H(+)-driven ATP synthase from Thermus thermophilus obtained by electron
cryomicroscopy of single particles in ice. The 600-kilodalton complex has an
overall subunit composition of A(3)B(3)CDE(2)FG(2)IL(12). The membrane-bound
motor consists of a ring of L subunits and the carboxy-terminal region of subunit
I, which are equivalent to the c and a subunits of most other rotary ATPases,
respectively. The map shows that the ring contains 12 L subunits and that the I
subunit has eight transmembrane helices. The L(12) ring and I subunit have a
surprisingly small contact area in the middle of the membrane, with helices from 
the I subunit making contacts with two different L subunits. The transmembrane
helices of subunit I form bundles that could serve as half-channels across the
membrane, with the first half-channel conducting protons from the periplasm to
the L(12) ring and the second half-channel conducting protons from the L(12) ring
to the cytoplasm. This structure therefore suggests the mechanism by which a
transmembrane proton motive force is converted to rotation in rotary ATPases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10699 
PMID: 22178924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7377):359-63. doi: 10.1038/nature10651.

Messinian salinity crisis regulated by competing tectonics and erosion at the
Gibraltar arc.

Garcia-Castellanos D(1), Villaseñor A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciencias de la Tierra Jaume Almera, CSIC, Solé i Sabarís s/n,
08028 Barcelona, Spain. danielgc@ictja.csic.es

The Messinian salinity crisis (5.96 to 5.33 million years ago) was caused by
reduced water inflow from the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea resulting
in widespread salt precipitation and a decrease in Mediterranean sea level of
about 1.5 kilometres due to evaporation. The reduced connectivity between the
Atlantic and the Mediterranean at the time of the salinity crisis is thought to
have resulted from tectonic uplift of the Gibraltar arc seaway and global
sea-level changes, both of which control the inflow of water required to
compensate for the hydrological deficit of the Mediterranean. However, the
different timescales on which tectonic uplift and changes in sea level occur are 
difficult to reconcile with the long duration of the shallow connection between
the Mediterranean and the Atlantic needed to explain the large amount of salt
precipitated. Here we use numerical modelling to show that seaway erosion caused 
by the Atlantic inflow could sustain such a shallow connection between the
Atlantic and the Mediterranean by counteracting tectonic uplift. The erosion and 
uplift rates required are consistent with previous mountain erosion studies, with
the present altitude of marine sediments in the Gibraltar arc and with geodynamic
models suggesting a lithospheric slab tear underneath the region. The moderate
Mediterranean sea-level drawdown during the early stages of the Messinian
salinity crisis can be explained by an uplift of a few millimetres per year
counteracted by similar rates of erosion due to Atlantic inflow. Our findings
suggest that the competition between uplift and erosion can result in harmonic
coupling between erosion and the Mediterranean sea level, providing an
alternative mechanism for the cyclicity observed in early salt precipitation
deposits and calling into question previous ideas regarding the timing of the
events that occurred during the Messinian salinity crisis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10651 
PMID: 22170684 


21. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7377):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10667.

Jamming by shear.

Bi D(1), Zhang J, Chakraborty B, Behringer RP.

Author information: 
(1)Martin Fisher School of Physics, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts
02454, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 15;480(7377):325-6.

A broad class of disordered materials including foams, glassy molecular systems, 
colloids and granular materials can form jammed states. A jammed system can
resist small stresses without deforming irreversibly, whereas unjammed systems
flow under any applied stresses. The broad applicability of the Liu-Nagel jamming
concept has attracted intensive theoretical and modelling interest but has
prompted less experimental effort. In the Liu-Nagel framework, jammed states of
athermal systems exist only above a certain critical density. Although numerical 
simulations for particles that do not experience friction broadly support this
idea, the nature of the jamming transition for frictional grains is less clear.
Here we show that jamming of frictional, disk-shaped grains can be induced by the
application of shear stress at densities lower than the critical value, at which 
isotropic (shear-free) jamming occurs. These jammed states have a much richer
phenomenology than the isotropic jammed states: for small applied shear stresses,
the states are fragile, with a strong force network that percolates only in one
direction. A minimum shear stress is needed to create robust, shear-jammed states
with a strong force network percolating in all directions. The transitions from
unjammed to fragile states and from fragile to shear-jammed states are controlled
by the fraction of force-bearing grains. The fractions at which these transitions
occur are statistically independent of the density. Jammed states with densities 
lower than the critical value have an anisotropic fabric (contact network). The
minimum anisotropy of shear-jammed states vanishes as the density approaches the 
critical value from below, in a manner reminiscent of an order-disorder
transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10667 
PMID: 22170683 


22. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7377):351-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10628.

Microwave amplification with nanomechanical resonators.

Massel F(1), Heikkilä TT, Pirkkalainen JM, Cho SU, Saloniemi H, Hakonen PJ,
Sillanpää MA.

Author information: 
(1)Low Temperature Laboratory, Aalto University, PO Box 15100, FI-00076 Aalto,
Finland. francesco.massel@aalto.fi

The sensitive measurement of electrical signals is at the heart of modern
technology. According to the principles of quantum mechanics, any detector or
amplifier necessarily adds a certain amount of noise to the signal, equal to at
least the noise added by quantum fluctuations. This quantum limit of added noise 
has nearly been reached in superconducting devices that take advantage of
nonlinearities in Josephson junctions. Here we introduce the concept of the
amplification of microwave signals using mechanical oscillation, which seems
likely to enable quantum-limited operation. We drive a nanomechanical resonator
with a radiation pressure force, and provide an experimental demonstration and an
analytical description of how a signal input to a microwave cavity induces
coherent stimulated emission and, consequently, signal amplification. This
generic scheme, which is based on two linear oscillators, has the advantage of
being conceptually and practically simpler than the Josephson junction devices.
In our device, we achieve signal amplification of 25 decibels with the addition
of 20 quanta of noise, which is consistent with the expected amount of added
noise. The generality of the model allows for realization in other physical
systems as well, and we anticipate that near-quantum-limited mechanical microwave
amplification will soon be feasible in various applications involving integrated 
electrical circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10628 
PMID: 22170682 


23. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7377):348-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10646.

Exclusion of a luminous red giant as a companion star to the progenitor of
supernova SN 2011fe.

Li W(1), Bloom JS, Podsiadlowski P, Miller AA, Cenko SB, Jha SW, Sullivan M,
Howell DA, Nugent PE, Butler NR, Ofek EO, Kasliwal MM, Richards JW, Stockton A,
Shih HY, Bildsten L, Shara MM, Bibby J, Filippenko AV, Ganeshalingam M, Silverman
JM, Kulkarni SR, Law NM, Poznanski D, Quimby RM, McCully C, Patel B, Maguire K,
Shen KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720-3411, USA. weidong@berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 15;480(7377):328-9.

Type Ia supernovae are thought to result from a thermonuclear explosion of an
accreting white dwarf in a binary system, but little is known of the precise
nature of the companion star and the physical properties of the progenitor
system. There are two classes of models: double-degenerate (involving two white
dwarfs in a close binary system) and single-degenerate models. In the latter, the
primary white dwarf accretes material from a secondary companion until conditions
are such that carbon ignites, at a mass of 1.38 times the mass of the Sun. The
type Ia supernova SN 2011fe was recently detected in a nearby galaxy. Here we
report an analysis of archival images of the location of SN 2011fe. The
luminosity of the progenitor system (especially the companion star) is 10-100
times fainter than previous limits on other type Ia supernova progenitor systems,
allowing us to rule out luminous red giants and almost all helium stars as the
mass-donating companion to the exploding white dwarf.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10646 
PMID: 22170681 


24. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7377):344-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10644.

Supernova SN 2011fe from an exploding carbon-oxygen white dwarf star.

Nugent PE(1), Sullivan M, Cenko SB, Thomas RC, Kasen D, Howell DA, Bersier D,
Bloom JS, Kulkarni SR, Kandrashoff MT, Filippenko AV, Silverman JM, Marcy GW,
Howard AW, Isaacson HT, Maguire K, Suzuki N, Tarlton JE, Pan YC, Bildsten L,
Fulton BJ, Parrent JT, Sand D, Podsiadlowski P, Bianco FB, Dilday B, Graham ML,
Lyman J, James P, Kasliwal MM, Law NM, Quimby RM, Hook IM, Walker ES, Mazzali P, 
Pian E, Ofek EO, Gal-Yam A, Poznanski D.

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
penugent@lbl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 15;480(7377):328-9.

Type Ia supernovae have been used empirically as 'standard candles' to
demonstrate the acceleration of the expansion of the Universe even though
fundamental details, such as the nature of their progenitor systems and how the
stars explode, remain a mystery. There is consensus that a white dwarf star
explodes after accreting matter in a binary system, but the secondary body could 
be anything from a main-sequence star to a red giant, or even another white
dwarf. This uncertainty stems from the fact that no recent type Ia supernova has 
been discovered close enough to Earth to detect the stars before explosion. Here 
we report early observations of supernova SN 2011fe in the galaxy M101 at a
distance from Earth of 6.4 megaparsecs. We find that the exploding star was
probably a carbon-oxygen white dwarf, and from the lack of an early shock we
conclude that the companion was probably a main-sequence star. Early spectroscopy
shows high-velocity oxygen that slows rapidly, on a timescale of hours, and
extensive mixing of newly synthesized intermediate-mass elements in the outermost
layers of the supernova. A companion paper uses pre-explosion images to rule out 
luminous red giants and most helium stars as companions to the progenitor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10644 
PMID: 22170680 


25. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;481(7380):190-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10661.

A microRNA regulon that mediates endothelial recruitment and metastasis by cancer
cells.

Png KJ(1), Halberg N, Yoshida M, Tavazoie SF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systems Cancer Biology, Rockefeller University, 1230 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Metastatic progression of cancer is a complex and clinically daunting process. We
previously identified a set of human microRNAs (miRNAs) that robustly suppress
breast cancer metastasis to lung and bone and which display expression levels
that predict human metastasis. Although these findings revealed miRNAs as
suppressors of cell-autonomous metastatic phenotypes, the roles of non-coding
RNAs in non-cell-autonomous cancer progression processes remain unknown. Here we 
reveal that endogenous miR-126, an miRNA silenced in a variety of common human
cancers, non-cell-autonomously regulates endothelial cell recruitment to
metastatic breast cancer cells, in vitro and in vivo. It suppresses metastatic
endothelial recruitment, metastatic angiogenesis and metastatic colonization
through coordinate targeting of IGFBP2, PITPNC1 and MERTK--novel pro-angiogenic
genes and biomarkers of human metastasis. Insulin-like growth factor binding
protein 2 (IGFBP2) secreted by metastatic cells recruits endothelia by modulating
IGF1-mediated activation of the IGF type-I receptor on endothelial cells; whereas
c-Mer tyrosine kinase (MERTK) receptor cleaved from metastatic cells promotes
endothelial recruitment by competitively antagonizing the binding of its ligand
GAS6 to endothelial MERTK receptors. Co-injection of endothelial cells with
breast cancer cells non-cell-autonomously rescues their miR-126-induced
metastatic defect, revealing a novel and important role for endothelial
interactions in metastatic initiation. Through loss-of-function and epistasis
experiments, we delineate an miRNA regulatory network's individual components as 
novel and cell-extrinsic regulators of endothelial recruitment, angiogenesis and 
metastatic colonization. We also identify the IGFBP2/IGF1/IGF1R and GAS6/MERTK
signalling pathways as regulators of cancer-mediated endothelial recruitment. Our
work further reveals endothelial recruitment and endothelial interactions in the 
tumour microenvironment to be critical features of metastatic breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10661 
PMID: 22170610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;481(7380):170-2. doi: 10.1038/nature10713.

Implementation of a Toffoli gate with superconducting circuits.

Fedorov A(1), Steffen L, Baur M, da Silva MP, Wallraff A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
fedoroar@phys.ethz.ch

The Toffoli gate is a three-quantum-bit (three-qubit) operation that inverts the 
state of a target qubit conditioned on the state of two control qubits. It makes 
universal reversible classical computation possible and, together with a Hadamard
gate, forms a universal set of gates in quantum computation. It is also a key
element in quantum error correction schemes. The Toffoli gate has been
implemented in nuclear magnetic resonance, linear optics and ion trap systems.
Experiments with superconducting qubits have also shown significant progress
recently: two-qubit algorithms and two-qubit process tomography have been
implemented, three-qubit entangled states have been prepared, first steps towards
quantum teleportation have been taken and work on quantum computing architectures
has been done. Implementation of the Toffoli gate with only single- and two-qubit
gates requires six controlled-NOT gates and ten single-qubit operations, and has 
not been realized in any system owing to current limits on coherence. Here we
implement a Toffoli gate with three superconducting transmon qubits coupled to a 
microwave resonator. By exploiting the third energy level of the transmon qubits,
we have significantly reduced the number of elementary gates needed for the
implementation of the Toffoli gate, relative to that required in theoretical
proposals using only two-level systems. Using full process tomography and Monte
Carlo process certification, we completely characterize the Toffoli gate acting
on three independent qubits, measuring a fidelity of 68.5 ± 0.5 per cent. A
similar approach to realizing characteristic features of a Toffoli-class gate has
been demonstrated with two qubits and a resonator and achieved a limited
characterization considering only the phase fidelity. Our results reinforce the
potential of macroscopic superconducting qubits for the implementation of complex
quantum operations with the possibility of quantum error correction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10713 
PMID: 22170609 


27. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7378):552-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10700.

Cryptochromes mediate rhythmic repression of the glucocorticoid receptor.

Lamia KA(1), Papp SJ, Yu RT, Barish GD, Uhlenhaut NH, Jonker JW, Downes M, Evans 
RM.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010
North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. klamia@scripps.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 22;480(7378):466-7.

Mammalian metabolism is highly circadian and major hormonal circuits involving
nuclear hormone receptors display interlinked diurnal cycling. However,
mechanisms that logically explain the coordination of nuclear hormone receptors
and the clock are poorly understood. Here we show that two circadian
co-regulators, cryptochromes 1 and 2, interact with the glucocorticoid receptor
in a ligand-dependent fashion and globally alter the transcriptional response to 
glucocorticoids in mouse embryonic fibroblasts: cryptochrome deficiency vastly
decreases gene repression and approximately doubles the number of
dexamethasone-induced genes, suggesting that cryptochromes broadly oppose
glucocorticoid receptor activation and promote repression. In mice, genetic loss 
of cryptochrome 1 and/or 2 results in glucose intolerance and constitutively high
levels of circulating corticosterone, suggesting reduced suppression of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis coupled with increased glucocorticoid
transactivation in the liver. Genomically, cryptochromes 1 and 2 associate with a
glucocorticoid response element in the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1
promoter in a hormone-dependent manner, and dexamethasone-induced transcription
of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 gene was strikingly increased in
cryptochrome-deficient livers. These results reveal a specific mechanism through 
which cryptochromes couple the activity of clock and receptor target genes to
complex genomic circuits underpinning normal metabolic homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10700 
PMCID: PMC3245818
PMID: 22170608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;481(7379):51-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10652.

A gas cloud on its way towards the supermassive black hole at the Galactic
Centre.

Gillessen S(1), Genzel R, Fritz TK, Quataert E, Alig C, Burkert A, Cuadra J,
Eisenhauer F, Pfuhl O, Dodds-Eden K, Gammie CF, Ott T.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für extraterrestrische Physik, Giessenbachstrasse 1,
D-85748 Garching, Germany. ste@mpe.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 5;481(7379):32-3.

Measurements of stellar orbits provide compelling evidence that the compact radio
source Sagittarius A* at the Galactic Centre is a black hole four million times
the mass of the Sun. With the exception of modest X-ray and infrared flares, Sgr 
A* is surprisingly faint, suggesting that the accretion rate and radiation
efficiency near the event horizon are currently very low. Here we report the
presence of a dense gas cloud approximately three times the mass of Earth that is
falling into the accretion zone of Sgr A*. Our observations tightly constrain the
cloud's orbit to be highly eccentric, with an innermost radius of approach of
only ∼3,100 times the event horizon that will be reached in 2013. Over the past
three years the cloud has begun to disrupt, probably mainly through tidal
shearing arising from the black hole's gravitational force. The cloud's dynamic
evolution and radiation in the next few years will probe the properties of the
accretion flow and the feeding processes of the supermassive black hole. The
kilo-electronvolt X-ray emission of Sgr A* may brighten significantly when the
cloud reaches pericentre. There may also be a giant radiation flare several years
from now if the cloud breaks up and its fragments feed gas into the central
accretion zone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10652 
PMID: 22170607 


29. Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7378):490-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10716.

DNA-binding factors shape the mouse methylome at distal regulatory regions.

Stadler MB(1), Murr R, Burger L, Ivanek R, Lienert F, Schöler A, van Nimwegen E, 
Wirbelauer C, Oakeley EJ, Gaidatzis D, Tiwari VK, Schübeler D.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66, 4058
Basel, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):550. van Nimwegen, Erik [added].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Feb;13(2):75.

Methylation of cytosines is an essential epigenetic modification in mammalian
genomes, yet the rules that govern methylation patterns remain largely elusive.
To gain insights into this process, we generated base-pair-resolution mouse
methylomes in stem cells and neuronal progenitors. Advanced quantitative analysis
identified low-methylated regions (LMRs) with an average methylation of 30%.
These represent CpG-poor distal regulatory regions as evidenced by location,
DNase I hypersensitivity, presence of enhancer chromatin marks and enhancer
activity in reporter assays. LMRs are occupied by DNA-binding factors and their
binding is necessary and sufficient to create LMRs. A comparison of neuronal and 
stem-cell methylomes confirms this dependency, as cell-type-specific LMRs are
occupied by cell-type-specific transcription factors. This study provides
methylome references for the mouse and shows that DNA-binding factors locally
influence DNA methylation, enabling the identification of active regulatory
regions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10716 
PMID: 22170606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2011 Dec 11;481(7380):199-203. doi: 10.1038/nature10698.

Acquisition of a multifunctional IgA+ plasma cell phenotype in the gut.

Fritz JH(1), Rojas OL, Simard N, McCarthy DD, Hapfelmeier S, Rubino S, Robertson 
SJ, Larijani M, Gosselin J, Ivanov II, Martin A, Casellas R, Philpott DJ,
Girardin SE, McCoy KD, Macpherson AJ, Paige CJ, Gommerman JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto M5S 1A8, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Feb;12(2):75.

The largest mucosal surface in the body is in the gastrointestinal tract, a
location that is heavily colonized by microbes that are normally harmless. A key 
mechanism required for maintaining a homeostatic balance between this microbial
burden and the lymphocytes that densely populate the gastrointestinal tract is
the production and transepithelial transport of poly-reactive IgA (ref. 1).
Within the mucosal tissues, B cells respond to cytokines, sometimes in the
absence of T-cell help, undergo class switch recombination of their
immunoglobulin receptor to IgA, and differentiate to become plasma cells.
However, IgA-secreting plasma cells probably have additional attributes that are 
needed for coping with the tremendous bacterial load in the gastrointestinal
tract. Here we report that mouse IgA(+) plasma cells also produce the
antimicrobial mediators tumour-necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and inducible nitric
oxide synthase (iNOS), and express many molecules that are commonly associated
with monocyte/granulocytic cell types. The development of iNOS-producing IgA(+)
plasma cells can be recapitulated in vitro in the presence of gut stroma, and the
acquisition of this multifunctional phenotype in vivo and in vitro relies on
microbial co-stimulation. Deletion of TNF-α and iNOS in B-lineage cells resulted 
in a reduction in IgA production, altered diversification of the gut microbiota
and poor clearance of a gut-tropic pathogen. These findings reveal a novel
adaptation to maintaining homeostasis in the gut, and extend the repertoire of
protective responses exhibited by some B-lineage cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10698 
PMCID: PMC3487691
PMID: 22158124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2011 Dec 11;481(7380):219-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10691.

An unanticipated architecture of the 750-kDa α6β6 holoenzyme of
3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase.

Huang CS(1), Ge P, Zhou ZH, Tong L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.

3-Methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase (MCC), a member of the biotin-dependent
carboxylase superfamily, is essential for the metabolism of leucine, and
deficient mutations in this enzyme are linked to methylcrotonylglycinuria (MCG)
and other serious diseases in humans. MCC has strong sequence conservation with
propionyl-CoA carboxylase (PCC), and their holoenzymes are both 750-kilodalton
(kDa) α(6)β(6) dodecamers. Therefore the architecture of the MCC holoenzyme is
expected to be highly similar to that of PCC. Here we report the crystal
structures of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa MCC (PaMCC) holoenzyme, alone and in
complex with coenzyme A. Surprisingly, the structures show that the architecture 
and overall shape of PaMCC are markedly different when compared to PCC. The
α-subunits show trimeric association in the PaMCC holoenzyme, whereas they have
no contacts with each other in PCC. Moreover, the positions of the two domains in
the β-subunit of PaMCC are swapped relative to those in PCC. This structural
information establishes a foundation for understanding the disease-causing
mutations of MCC and provides new insights into the catalytic mechanism and
evolution of biotin-dependent carboxylases. The large structural differences
between MCC and PCC also have general implications for the relationship between
sequence conservation and structural similarity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10691 
PMCID: PMC3271731
PMID: 22158123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2011 Dec 11;481(7380):204-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10690.

Cysteine methylation disrupts ubiquitin-chain sensing in NF-κB activation.

Zhang L(1), Ding X, Cui J, Xu H, Chen J, Gong YN, Hu L, Zhou Y, Ge J, Lu Q, Liu
L, Chen S, Shao F.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union
Medical College, Beijing 100730, China.

NF-κB is crucial for innate immune defence against microbial infection.
Inhibition of NF-κB signalling has been observed with various bacterial
infections. The NF-κB pathway critically requires multiple ubiquitin-chain
signals of different natures. The question of whether ubiquitin-chain signalling 
and its specificity in NF-κB activation are regulated during infection, and how
this regulation takes place, has not been explored. Here we show that human TAB2 
and TAB3, ubiquitin-chain sensory proteins involved in NF-κB signalling, are
directly inactivated by enteropathogenic Escherichia coli NleE, a conserved
bacterial type-III-secreted effector responsible for blocking host NF-κB
signalling. NleE harboured an unprecedented S-adenosyl-l-methionine-dependent
methyltransferase activity that specifically modified a zinc-coordinating
cysteine in the Npl4 zinc finger (NZF) domains in TAB2 and TAB3.
Cysteine-methylated TAB2-NZF and TAB3-NZF (truncated proteins only comprising the
NZF domain) lost the zinc ion as well as the ubiquitin-chain binding activity.
Ectopically expressed or type-III-secretion-system-delivered NleE methylated TAB2
and TAB3 in host cells and diminished their ubiquitin-chain binding activity.
Replacement of the NZF domain of TAB3 with the NleE methylation-insensitive Npl4 
NZF domain resulted in NleE-resistant NF-κB activation. Given the prevalence of
zinc-finger motifs and activation of cysteine thiol by zinc binding, methylation 
of zinc-finger cysteine might regulate other eukaryotic pathways in addition to
NF-κB signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10690 
PMID: 22158122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 2011 Dec 11;482(7386):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10708.

DCC constrains tumour progression via its dependence receptor activity.

Castets M(1), Broutier L, Molin Y, Brevet M, Chazot G, Gadot N, Paquet A, Mazelin
L, Jarrosson-Wuilleme L, Scoazec JY, Bernet A, Mehlen P.

Author information: 
(1)Apoptosis, Cancer and Development Laboratory - Equipe labellisée La Ligue,
LabEx DEVweCAN, Centre de Cancérologie de Lyon, INSERM U1052-CNRS UMR5286,
Université de Lyon, Centre Léon Bérard, 69008 Lyon, France.

The role of deleted in colorectal carcinoma (DCC) as a tumour suppressor has been
a matter of debate for the past 15 years. DCC gene expression is lost or markedly
reduced in the majority of advanced colorectal cancers and, by functioning as a
dependence receptor, DCC has been shown to induce apoptosis unless engaged by its
ligand, netrin-1 (ref. 2). However, so far no animal model has supported the view
that the DCC loss-of-function is causally implicated as predisposing to
aggressive cancer development. To investigate the role of DCC-induced apoptosis
in the control of tumour progression, here we created a mouse model in which the 
pro-apoptotic activity of DCC is genetically silenced. Although the loss of
DCC-induced apoptosis in this mouse model is not associated with a major
disorganization of the intestines, it leads to spontaneous intestinal neoplasia
at a relatively low frequency. Loss of DCC-induced apoptosis is also associated
with an increase in the number and aggressiveness of intestinal tumours in a
predisposing APC mutant context, resulting in the development of highly invasive 
adenocarcinomas. These results demonstrate that DCC functions as a tumour
suppressor via its ability to trigger tumour cell apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10708 
PMID: 22158121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):229-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10626.

Combined obliquity and precession pacing of late Pleistocene deglaciations.

Huybers P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, 20 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. phuybers@fas.harvard.edu

Milankovitch proposed that Earth resides in an interglacial state when its spin
axis both tilts to a high obliquity and precesses to align the Northern
Hemisphere summer with Earth's nearest approach to the Sun. This general concept 
has been elaborated into hypotheses that precession, obliquity or combinations of
both could pace deglaciations during the late Pleistocene. Earlier tests have
shown that obliquity paces the late Pleistocene glacial cycles but have been
inconclusive with regard to precession, whose shorter period of about 20,000
years makes phasing more sensitive to timing errors. No quantitative test has
provided firm evidence for a dual effect. Here I show that both obliquity and
precession pace late Pleistocene glacial cycles. Deficiencies in time control
that have long stymied efforts to establish orbital effects on deglaciation are
overcome using a new statistical test that focuses on maxima in orbital forcing. 
The results are fully consistent with Milankovitch's proposal but also admit the 
possibility that long Southern Hemisphere summers contribute to deglaciation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10626 
PMID: 22158246 


35. Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):224-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10647.

Trifluoromethylation of arenes and heteroarenes by means of photoredox catalysis.

Nagib DA(1), MacMillan DW.

Author information: 
(1)Merck Center for Catalysis at Princeton University, Department of Chemistry,
192 Frick Laboratory, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):184-5.

Modern drug discovery relies on the continual development of synthetic
methodology to address the many challenges associated with the design of new
pharmaceutical agents. One such challenge arises from the enzymatic metabolism of
drugs in vivo by cytochrome P450 oxidases, which use single-electron oxidative
mechanisms to rapidly modify small molecules to facilitate their excretion. A
commonly used synthetic strategy to protect against in vivo metabolism involves
the incorporation of electron-withdrawing functionality, such as the
trifluoromethyl (CF(3)) group, into drug candidates. The CF(3) group enjoys a
privileged role in the realm of medicinal chemistry because its incorporation
into small molecules often enhances efficacy by promoting electrostatic
interactions with targets, improving cellular membrane permeability, and
increasing robustness towards oxidative metabolism of the drug. Although common
pharmacophores often bear CF(3) motifs in an aromatic system, access to such
analogues typically requires the incorporation of the CF(3) group, or a surrogate
moiety, at the start of a multi-step synthetic sequence. Here we report a mild,
operationally simple strategy for the direct trifluoromethylation of unactivated 
arenes and heteroarenes through a radical-mediated mechanism using commercial
photocatalysts and a household light bulb. We demonstrate the broad utility of
this transformation through addition of CF(3) to a number of heteroaromatic and
aromatic systems. The benefit to medicinal chemistry and applicability to
late-stage drug development is also shown through examples of the direct
trifluoromethylation of widely prescribed pharmaceutical agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10647 
PMCID: PMC3310175
PMID: 22158245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):215-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10636.

Two ten-billion-solar-mass black holes at the centres of giant elliptical
galaxies.

McConnell NJ(1), Ma CP, Gebhardt K, Wright SA, Murphy JD, Lauer TR, Graham JR,
Richstone DO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):187-8.

Observational work conducted over the past few decades indicates that all massive
galaxies have supermassive black holes at their centres. Although the
luminosities and brightness fluctuations of quasars in the early Universe suggest
that some were powered by black holes with masses greater than 10 billion solar
masses, the remnants of these objects have not been found in the nearby Universe.
The giant elliptical galaxy Messier 87 hosts the hitherto most massive known
black hole, which has a mass of 6.3 billion solar masses. Here we report that NGC
3842, the brightest galaxy in a cluster at a distance from Earth of 98
megaparsecs, has a central black hole with a mass of 9.7 billion solar masses,
and that a black hole of comparable or greater mass is present in NGC 4889, the
brightest galaxy in the Coma cluster (at a distance of 103 megaparsecs). These
two black holes are significantly more massive than predicted by linearly
extrapolating the widely used correlations between black-hole mass and the
stellar velocity dispersion or bulge luminosity of the host galaxy. Although
these correlations remain useful for predicting black-hole masses in less massive
elliptical galaxies, our measurements suggest that different evolutionary
processes influence the growth of the largest galaxies and their black holes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10636 
PMID: 22158244 


37. Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):193-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10610.

Assembly of hybrid photonic architectures from nanophotonic constituents.

Benson O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nano-Optik, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Newtonstrasse 15, 12489 Berlin,
Germany. oliver.benson@physik.hu-berlin.de

The assembly of hybrid nanophotonic devices from different fundamental photonic
entities--such as single molecules, nanocrystals, semiconductor quantum dots,
nanowires and metal nanoparticles--can yield functionalities that exceed those of
the individual subunits. Combining these photonic elements requires
nanometre-scale fabrication precision and potentially involves a material
diversity that is incompatible with standard nanotechnological processes.
Although merging these different systems on a single hybrid platform is at
present challenging, it promises improved performance and novel devices.
Particularly rapid progress is seen in the combination of plasmonic-dielectric
constituents with quantum emitters that can be assembled on demand into
fundamental model systems for future optical elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10610 
PMID: 22158243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;480(7376):E4-5; discussion E6. doi: 10.1038/nature10615.

GSK-3α/β kinases and amyloid production in vivo.

Jaworski T(1), Dewachter I, Lechat B, Gees M, Kremer A, Demedts D, Borghgraef P, 
Devijver H, Kügler S, Patel S, Woodgett JR, Van Leuven F.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Genetics Group, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Comment on
    Nature. 2003 May 22;423(6938):435-9.

Arising from C. J. Phiel, C. A. Wilson, V. M.-Y. Lee & P. S. Klein 423, 435-439
(2003)A major unresolved issue in Alzheimer's disease is identifying the
mechanisms that regulate proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein
(APP)-glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) isozymes are thought to be important in 
this regulation. Phiel et al. proposed that GSK-3α, but not GSK-3β, controls
production of amyloid. We analysed the proteolytic processing of mouse and human 
APP in mouse brain in vivo in five different genetic and viral models. Our data
do not yield evidence for either GSK-3α-mediated or GSK-3β-mediated control of
APP processing in brain in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10615 
PMID: 22158250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;480(7376):250-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10665.

Predicting mutation outcome from early stochastic variation in genetic
interaction partners.

Burga A(1), Casanueva MO, Lehner B.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL-CRG Systems Biology Unit, Centre for Genomic Regulation and Universitat
Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona 08003, Spain.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Feb;13(2):74.
    Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):188-9.

Many mutations, including those that cause disease, only have a detrimental
effect in a subset of individuals. The reasons for this are usually unknown, but 
may include additional genetic variation and environmental risk factors. However,
phenotypic discordance remains even in the absence of genetic variation, for
example between monozygotic twins, and incomplete penetrance of mutations is
frequent in isogenic model organisms in homogeneous environments. Here we propose
a model for incomplete penetrance based on genetic interaction networks. Using
Caenorhabditis elegans as a model system, we identify two compensation mechanisms
that vary among individuals and influence mutation outcome. First, feedback
induction of an ancestral gene duplicate differs across individuals, with high
expression masking the effects of a mutation. This supports the hypothesis that
redundancy is maintained in genomes to buffer stochastic developmental failure.
Second, during normal embryonic development we find that there is substantial
variation in the induction of molecular chaperones such as Hsp90 (DAF-21).
Chaperones act as promiscuous buffers of genetic variation, and embryos with
stronger induction of Hsp90 are less likely to be affected by an inherited
mutation. Simultaneously quantifying the variation in these two independent
responses allows the phenotypic outcome of a mutation to be more accurately
predicted in individuals. Our model and methodology provide a framework for
dissecting the causes of incomplete penetrance. Further, the results establish
that inter-individual variation in both specific and more general buffering
systems combine to determine the outcome inherited mutations in each individual.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10665 
PMID: 22158248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;480(7376):237-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10689.

Acute vision in the giant Cambrian predator Anomalocaris and the origin of
compound eyes.

Paterson JR(1), García-Bellido DC, Lee MS, Brock GA, Jago JB, Edgecombe GD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Earth Sciences, School of Environmental and Rural Science,
University of New England, Armidale, New South Wales 2351, Australia.
jpater20@une.edu.au

Until recently, intricate details of the optical design of non-biomineralized
arthropod eyes remained elusive in Cambrian Burgess-Shale-type deposits, despite 
exceptional preservation of soft-part anatomy in such Konservat-Lagerstätten. The
structure and development of ommatidia in arthropod compound eyes support a
single origin some time before the latest common ancestor of crown-group
arthropods, but the appearance of compound eyes in the arthropod stem group has
been poorly constrained in the absence of adequate fossils. Here we report 2-3-cm
paired eyes from the early Cambrian (approximately 515 million years old) Emu Bay
Shale of South Australia, assigned to the Cambrian apex predator Anomalocaris.
Their preserved visual surfaces are composed of at least 16,000 hexagonally
packed ommatidial lenses (in a single eye), rivalling the most acute compound
eyes in modern arthropods. The specimens show two distinct taphonomic modes,
preserved as iron oxide (after pyrite) and calcium phosphate, demonstrating that 
disparate styles of early diagenetic mineralization can replicate the same type
of extracellular tissue (that is, cuticle) within a single Burgess-Shale-type
deposit. These fossils also provide compelling evidence for the arthropod
affinities of anomalocaridids, push the origin of compound eyes deeper down the
arthropod stem lineage, and indicate that the compound eye evolved before such
features as a hardened exoskeleton. The inferred acuity of the anomalocaridid eye
is consistent with other evidence that these animals were highly mobile visual
predators in the water column. The existence of large, macrophagous nektonic
predators possessing sharp vision--such as Anomalocaris--within the early
Cambrian ecosystem probably helped to accelerate the escalatory 'arms race' that 
began over half a billion years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10689 
PMID: 22158247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;481(7379):55-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10612.

Fast core rotation in red-giant stars as revealed by gravity-dominated mixed
modes.

Beck PG(1), Montalban J, Kallinger T, De Ridder J, Aerts C, García RA, Hekker S, 
Dupret MA, Mosser B, Eggenberger P, Stello D, Elsworth Y, Frandsen S, Carrier F, 
Hillen M, Gruberbauer M, Christensen-Dalsgaard J, Miglio A, Valentini M, Bedding 
TR, Kjeldsen H, Girouard FR, Hall JR, Ibrahim KA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituut voor Sterrenkunde, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, 3001 Leuven,
Belgium. paul.beck@ster.kuleuven.be

When the core hydrogen is exhausted during stellar evolution, the central region 
of a star contracts and the outer envelope expands and cools, giving rise to a
red giant. Convection takes place over much of the star's radius. Conservation of
angular momentum requires that the cores of these stars rotate faster than their 
envelopes; indirect evidence supports this. Information about the
angular-momentum distribution is inaccessible to direct observations, but it can 
be extracted from the effect of rotation on oscillation modes that probe the
stellar interior. Here we report an increasing rotation rate from the surface of 
the star to the stellar core in the interiors of red giants, obtained using the
rotational frequency splitting of recently detected 'mixed modes'. By comparison 
with theoretical stellar models, we conclude that the core must rotate at least
ten times faster than the surface. This observational result confirms the
theoretical prediction of a steep gradient in the rotation profile towards the
deep stellar interior.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10612 
PMID: 22158105 


42. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;480(7377):331-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10674.

A disinhibitory microcircuit for associative fear learning in the auditory
cortex.

Letzkus JJ(1), Wolff SB, Meyer EM, Tovote P, Courtin J, Herry C, Lüthi A.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland. johannes.letzkus@fmi.ch

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Feb;13(2):72.

Learning causes a change in how information is processed by neuronal circuits.
Whereas synaptic plasticity, an important cellular mechanism, has been studied in
great detail, we know much less about how learning is implemented at the level of
neuronal circuits and, in particular, how interactions between distinct types of 
neurons within local networks contribute to the process of learning. Here we show
that acquisition of associative fear memories depends on the recruitment of a
disinhibitory microcircuit in the mouse auditory cortex.
Fear-conditioning-associated disinhibition in auditory cortex is driven by
foot-shock-mediated cholinergic activation of layer 1 interneurons, in turn
generating inhibition of layer 2/3 parvalbumin-positive interneurons.
Importantly, pharmacological or optogenetic block of pyramidal neuron
disinhibition abolishes fear learning. Together, these data demonstrate that
stimulus convergence in the auditory cortex is necessary for associative fear
learning to complex tones, define the circuit elements mediating this convergence
and suggest that layer-1-mediated disinhibition is an important mechanism
underlying learning and information processing in neocortical circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10674 
PMID: 22158104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;481(7379):85-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10694.

Interactions between cancer stem cells and their niche govern metastatic
colonization.

Malanchi I(1), Santamaria-Martínez A, Susanto E, Peng H, Lehr HA, Delaloye JF,
Huelsken J.

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Swiss Institute for Experimental
Cancer Research and National Center of Competence in Research Molecular Oncology,
1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Feb 3;10(2):111-2.

Metastatic growth in distant organs is the major cause of cancer mortality. The
development of metastasis is a multistage process with several rate-limiting
steps. Although dissemination of tumour cells seems to be an early and frequent
event, the successful initiation of metastatic growth, a process termed
'metastatic colonization', is inefficient for many cancer types and is
accomplished only by a minority of cancer cells that reach distant sites.
Prevalent target sites are characteristic of many tumour entities, suggesting
that inadequate support by distant tissues contributes to the inefficiency of the
metastatic process. Here we show that a small population of cancer stem cells is 
critical for metastatic colonization, that is, the initial expansion of cancer
cells at the secondary site, and that stromal niche signals are crucial to this
expansion process. We find that periostin (POSTN), a component of the
extracellular matrix, is expressed by fibroblasts in the normal tissue and in the
stroma of the primary tumour. Infiltrating tumour cells need to induce stromal
POSTN expression in the secondary target organ (in this case lung) to initiate
colonization. POSTN is required to allow cancer stem cell maintenance, and
blocking its function prevents metastasis. POSTN recruits Wnt ligands and thereby
increases Wnt signalling in cancer stem cells. We suggest that the education of
stromal cells by infiltrating tumour cells is an important step in metastatic
colonization and that preventing de novo niche formation may be a novel strategy 
for the treatment of metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10694 
PMID: 22158103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2011 Dec 7;481(7379):71-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10709.

Reversal of cocaine-evoked synaptic potentiation resets drug-induced adaptive
behaviour.

Pascoli V(1), Turiault M, Lüscher C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 5;481(7379):36-7.

Drug-evoked synaptic plasticity is observed at many synapses and may underlie
behavioural adaptations in addiction. Mechanistic investigations start with the
identification of the molecular drug targets. Cocaine, for example, exerts its
reinforcing and early neuroadaptive effects by inhibiting the dopamine
transporter, thus causing a strong increase in mesolimbic dopamine. Among the
many signalling pathways subsequently engaged, phosphorylation of the
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in the nucleus accumbens is of
particular interest because it has been implicated in NMDA-receptor and type 1
dopamine (D1)-receptor-dependent synaptic potentiation as well as in several
behavioural adaptations. A causal link between drug-evoked plasticity at
identified synapses and behavioural adaptations, however, is missing, and the
benefits of restoring baseline transmission have yet to be demonstrated. Here we 
find that cocaine potentiates excitatory transmission in D1-receptor-expressing
medium-sized spiny neurons (D1R-MSNs) in mice via ERK signalling with a time
course that parallels locomotor sensitization. Depotentiation of cortical nucleus
accumbens inputs by optogenetic stimulation in vivo efficiently restored normal
transmission and abolished cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization. These
findings establish synaptic potentiation selectively in D1R-MSNs as a mechanism
underlying a core component of addiction, probably by creating an imbalance
between distinct populations of MSNs in the nucleus accumbens. Our data also
provide proof of principle that reversal of cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity
can treat behavioural alterations caused by addictive drugs and may inspire novel
therapeutic approaches involving deep brain stimulation or transcranial magnetic 
stimulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10709 
PMID: 22158102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 2011 Dec 4;481(7379):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10670.

Open structure of the Ca2+ gating ring in the high-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ 
channel.

Yuan P(1), Leonetti MD, Hsiung Y, MacKinnon R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology and Biophysics, Rockefeller University,
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

High-conductance voltage- and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels function in many
physiological processes that link cell membrane voltage and intracellular Ca(2+) 
concentration, including neuronal electrical activity, skeletal and smooth muscle
contraction, and hair cell tuning. Like other voltage-dependent K(+) channels,
Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels open when the cell membrane depolarizes, but in
contrast to other voltage-dependent K(+) channels, they also open when
intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations rise. Channel opening by Ca(2+) is made
possible by a structure called the gating ring, which is located in the
cytoplasm. Recent structural studies have defined the Ca(2+)-free, closed,
conformation of the gating ring, but the Ca(2+)-bound, open, conformation is not 
yet known. Here we present the Ca(2+)-bound conformation of the gating ring. This
structure shows how one layer of the gating ring, in response to the binding of
Ca(2+), opens like the petals of a flower. The degree to which it opens explains 
how Ca(2+) binding can open the transmembrane pore. These findings present a
molecular basis for Ca(2+) activation of K(+) channels and suggest new
possibilities for targeting the gating ring to treat conditions such as asthma
and hypertension.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10670 
PMCID: PMC3319005
PMID: 22139424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 2011 Dec 4;481(7379):76-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10715.

Modulation of TRPA1 thermal sensitivity enables sensory discrimination in
Drosophila.

Kang K(1), Panzano VC, Chang EC, Ni L, Dainis AM, Jenkins AM, Regna K, Muskavitch
MA, Garrity PA.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Behavioral Genomics and Volen Center for Complex Systems, 
Department of Biology, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Comment in
    Channels (Austin). 2012 Jan-Feb;6(1):50-1.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Feb;13(2):74.

Discriminating among sensory stimuli is critical for animal survival. This
discrimination is particularly essential when evaluating whether a stimulus is
noxious or innocuous. From insects to humans, transient receptor potential (TRP) 
channels are key transducers of thermal, chemical and other sensory cues. Many
TRPs are multimodal receptors that respond to diverse stimuli, but how animals
distinguish sensory inputs activating the same TRP is largely unknown. Here we
determine how stimuli activating Drosophila TRPA1 are discriminated. Although
Drosophila TRPA1 responds to both noxious chemicals and innocuous warming, we
find that TRPA1-expressing chemosensory neurons respond to chemicals but not
warmth, a specificity conferred by a chemosensory-specific TRPA1 isoform with
reduced thermosensitivity compared to the previously described isoform. At the
molecular level, this reduction results from a unique region that robustly
reduces the channel's thermosensitivity. Cell-type segregation of TRPA1 activity 
is critical: when the thermosensory isoform is expressed in chemosensors, flies
respond to innocuous warming with regurgitation, a nocifensive response. TRPA1
isoform diversity is conserved in malaria mosquitoes, indicating that similar
mechanisms may allow discrimination of host-derived warmth--an attractant--from
chemical repellents. These findings indicate that reducing thermosensitivity can 
be critical for TRP channel functional diversification, facilitating their use in
contexts in which thermal sensitivity can be maladaptive.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10715 
PMCID: PMC3272886
PMID: 22139422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):118-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10598.

Nuclear PKM2 regulates β-catenin transactivation upon EGFR activation.

Yang W(1), Xia Y, Ji H, Zheng Y, Liang J, Huang W, Gao X, Aldape K, Lu Z.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Tumor Center and Department of Neuro-Oncology, The University of Texas
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2017 Sep 20;:.

Comment in
    Future Oncol. 2012 Apr;8(4):395-8.

The embryonic pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) isoform is highly expressed in human
cancer. In contrast to the established role of PKM2 in aerobic glycolysis or the 
Warburg effect, its non-metabolic functions remain elusive. Here we demonstrate, 
in human cancer cells, that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation
induces translocation of PKM2, but not PKM1, into the nucleus, where K433 of PKM2
binds to c-Src-phosphorylated Y333 of β-catenin. This interaction is required for
both proteins to be recruited to the CCND1 promoter, leading to HDAC3 removal
from the promoter, histone H3 acetylation and cyclin D1 expression.
PKM2-dependent β-catenin transactivation is instrumental in EGFR-promoted tumour 
cell proliferation and brain tumour development. In addition, positive
correlations have been identified between c-Src activity, β-catenin Y333
phosphorylation and PKM2 nuclear accumulation in human glioblastoma specimens.
Furthermore, levels of β-catenin phosphorylation and nuclear PKM2 have been
correlated with grades of glioma malignancy and prognosis. These findings reveal 
that EGF induces β-catenin transactivation via a mechanism distinct from that
induced by Wnt/Wingless and highlight the essential non-metabolic functions of
PKM2 in EGFR-promoted β-catenin transactivation, cell proliferation and
tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10598 
PMCID: PMC3235705
PMID: 22056988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10546.

Image-based genome-wide siRNA screen identifies selective autophagy factors.

Orvedahl A(1), Sumpter R Jr, Xiao G, Ng A, Zou Z, Tang Y, Narimatsu M, Gilpin C, 
Sun Q, Roth M, Forst CV, Wrana JL, Zhang YE, Luby-Phelps K, Xavier RJ, Xie Y,
Levine B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390-9113, USA.

Selective autophagy involves the recognition and targeting of specific cargo,
such as damaged organelles, misfolded proteins, or invading pathogens for
lysosomal destruction. Yeast genetic screens have identified proteins required
for different forms of selective autophagy, including cytoplasm-to-vacuole
targeting, pexophagy and mitophagy, and mammalian genetic screens have identified
proteins required for autophagy regulation. However, there have been no
systematic approaches to identify molecular determinants of selective autophagy
in mammalian cells. Here, to identify mammalian genes required for selective
autophagy, we performed a high-content, image-based, genome-wide small
interfering RNA screen to detect genes required for the colocalization of Sindbis
virus capsid protein with autophagolysosomes. We identified 141 candidate genes
required for viral autophagy, which were enriched for cellular pathways related
to messenger RNA processing, interferon signalling, vesicle trafficking,
cytoskeletal motor function and metabolism. Ninety-six of these genes were also
required for Parkin-mediated mitophagy, indicating that common molecular
determinants may be involved in autophagic targeting of viral nucleocapsids and
autophagic targeting of damaged mitochondria. Murine embryonic fibroblasts
lacking one of these gene products, the C2-domain containing protein, SMURF1, are
deficient in the autophagosomal targeting of Sindbis and herpes simplex viruses
and in the clearance of damaged mitochondria. Moreover, SMURF1-deficient mice
accumulate damaged mitochondria in the heart, brain and liver. Thus, our study
identifies candidate determinants of selective autophagy, and defines SMURF1 as a
newly recognized mediator of both viral autophagy and mitophagy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10546 
PMCID: PMC3229641
PMID: 22020285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7376):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10589.

Frictional ageing from interfacial bonding and the origins of rate and state
friction.

Li Q(1), Tullis TE, Goldsby D, Carpick RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Earthquakes have long been recognized as being the result of stick-slip
frictional instabilities. Over the past few decades, laboratory studies of rock
friction have elucidated many aspects of tectonic fault zone processes and
earthquake phenomena. Typically, the static friction of rocks grows
logarithmically with time when they are held in stationary contact, but the
mechanism responsible for this strengthening is not understood. This
time-dependent increase of frictional strength, or frictional ageing, is one
manifestation of the 'evolution effect' in rate and state friction theory. A
prevailing view is that the time dependence of rock friction results from
increases in contact area caused by creep of contacting asperities. Here we
present the results of atomic force microscopy experiments that instead show that
frictional ageing arises from the formation of interfacial chemical bonds, and
the large magnitude of ageing at the nanometre scale is quantitatively consistent
with what is required to explain observations in macroscopic rock friction
experiments. The relative magnitude of the evolution effect compared with that of
the 'direct effect'--the dependence of friction on instantaneous changes in slip 
velocity--determine whether unstable slip, leading to earthquakes, is possible.
Understanding the mechanism underlying the evolution effect would enable us to
formulate physically based frictional constitutive laws, rather than the current 
empirically based 'laws', allowing more confident extrapolation to natural
faults.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10589 
PMID: 22139421 


50. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;481(7379):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10660.

Antibody-based protection against HIV infection by vectored immunoprophylaxis.

Balazs AB(1), Chen J, Hong CM, Rao DS, Yang L, Baltimore D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East California 
Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Despite tremendous efforts, development of an effective vaccine against human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has proved an elusive goal. Recently, however,
numerous antibodies have been identified that are capable of neutralizing most
circulating HIV strains. These antibodies all exhibit an unusually high level of 
somatic mutation, presumably owing to extensive affinity maturation over the
course of continuous exposure to an evolving antigen. Although substantial effort
has focused on the design of immunogens capable of eliciting antibodies de novo
that would target similar epitopes, it remains uncertain whether a conventional
vaccine will be able to elicit analogues of the existing broadly neutralizing
antibodies. As an alternative to immunization, vector-mediated gene transfer
could be used to engineer secretion of the existing broadly neutralizing
antibodies into the circulation. Here we describe a practical implementation of
this approach, which we call vectored immunoprophylaxis (VIP), which in mice
induces lifelong expression of these monoclonal antibodies at high concentrations
from a single intramuscular injection. This is achieved using a specialized
adeno-associated virus vector optimized for the production of full-length
antibody from muscle tissue. We show that humanized mice receiving VIP appear to 
be fully protected from HIV infection, even when challenged intravenously with
very high doses of replication-competent virus. Our results suggest that
successful translation of this approach to humans may produce effective
prophylaxis against HIV.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10660 
PMCID: PMC3253190
PMID: 22139420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7376):201-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10659.

New gene functions in megakaryopoiesis and platelet formation.

Gieger C(1), Radhakrishnan A, Cvejic A, Tang W, Porcu E, Pistis G,
Serbanovic-Canic J, Elling U, Goodall AH, Labrune Y, Lopez LM, Mägi R, Meacham S,
Okada Y, Pirastu N, Sorice R, Teumer A, Voss K, Zhang W, Ramirez-Solis R, Bis JC,
Ellinghaus D, Gögele M, Hottenga JJ, Langenberg C, Kovacs P, O'Reilly PF, Shin
SY, Esko T, Hartiala J, Kanoni S, Murgia F, Parsa A, Stephens J, van der Harst P,
Ellen van der Schoot C, Allayee H, Attwood A, Balkau B, Bastardot F, Basu S,
Baumeister SE, Biino G, Bomba L, Bonnefond A, Cambien F, Chambers JC, Cucca F,
D'Adamo P, Davies G, de Boer RA, de Geus EJ, Döring A, Elliott P, Erdmann J,
Evans DM, Falchi M, Feng W, Folsom AR, Frazer IH, Gibson QD, Glazer NL, Hammond
C, Hartikainen AL, Heckbert SR, Hengstenberg C, Hersch M, Illig T, Loos RJ,
Jolley J, Khaw KT, Kühnel B, Kyrtsonis MC, Lagou V, Lloyd-Jones H, Lumley T,
Mangino M, Maschio A, Mateo Leach I, McKnight B, Memari Y, Mitchell BD,
Montgomery GW, Nakamura Y, Nauck M, Navis G, Nöthlings U, Nolte IM, Porteous DJ, 
Pouta A, Pramstaller PP, Pullat J, Ring SM, Rotter JI, Ruggiero D, Ruokonen A,
Sala C, Samani NJ, Sambrook J, Schlessinger D, Schreiber S, Schunkert H, Scott J,
Smith NL, Snieder H, Starr JM, Stumvoll M, Takahashi A, Tang WH, Taylor K, Tenesa
A, Lay Thein S, Tönjes A, Uda M, Ulivi S, van Veldhuisen DJ, Visscher PM, Völker 
U, Wichmann HE, Wiggins KL, Willemsen G, Yang TP, Hua Zhao J, Zitting P, Bradley 
JR, Dedoussis GV, Gasparini P, Hazen SL, Metspalu A, Pirastu M, Shuldiner AR,
Joost van Pelt L, Zwaginga JJ, Boomsma DI, Deary IJ, Franke A, Froguel P, Ganesh 
SK, Jarvelin MR, Martin NG, Meisinger C, Psaty BM, Spector TD, Wareham NJ,
Akkerman JW, Ciullo M, Deloukas P, Greinacher A, Jupe S, Kamatani N, Khadake J,
Kooner JS, Penninger J, Prokopenko I, Stemple D, Toniolo D, Wernisch L, Sanna S, 
Hicks AA, Rendon A, Ferreira MA, Ouwehand WH, Soranzo N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health, Ingolstädter Landstr 1, 85764 Neuherberg,
Germany. christian.gieger@helmholtz-muenchen.de

Platelets are the second most abundant cell type in blood and are essential for
maintaining haemostasis. Their count and volume are tightly controlled within
narrow physiological ranges, but there is only limited understanding of the
molecular processes controlling both traits. Here we carried out a high-powered
meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in up to 66,867
individuals of European ancestry, followed by extensive biological and functional
assessment. We identified 68 genomic loci reliably associated with platelet count
and volume mapping to established and putative novel regulators of
megakaryopoiesis and platelet formation. These genes show megakaryocyte-specific 
gene expression patterns and extensive network connectivity. Using gene silencing
in Danio rerio and Drosophila melanogaster, we identified 11 of the genes as
novel regulators of blood cell formation. Taken together, our findings advance
understanding of novel gene functions controlling fate-determining events during 
megakaryopoiesis and platelet formation, providing a new example of successful
translation of GWAS to function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10659 
PMCID: PMC3335296
PMID: 22139419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7376):219-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10654.

Atomic homodyne detection of continuous-variable entangled twin-atom states.

Gross C(1), Strobel H, Nicklas E, Zibold T, Bar-Gill N, Kurizki G, Oberthaler MK.

Author information: 
(1)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Universität Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
227, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Historically, the completeness of quantum theory has been questioned using the
concept of bipartite continuous-variable entanglement. The non-classical
correlations (entanglement) between the two subsystems imply that the observables
of one subsystem are determined by the measurement choice on the other,
regardless of the distance between the subsystems. Nowadays, continuous-variable 
entanglement is regarded as an essential resource, allowing for quantum enhanced 
measurement resolution, the realization of quantum teleportation and quantum
memories, or the demonstration of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox. These
applications rely on techniques to manipulate and detect coherences of quantum
fields, the quadratures. Whereas in optics coherent homodyne detection of
quadratures is a standard technique, for massive particles a corresponding method
was missing. Here we report the realization of an atomic analogue to homodyne
detection for the measurement of matter-wave quadratures. The application of this
technique to a quantum state produced by spin-changing collisions in a
Bose-Einstein condensate reveals continuous-variable entanglement, as well as the
twin-atom character of the state. Our results provide a rare example of
continuous-variable entanglement of massive particles. The direct detection of
atomic quadratures has applications not only in experimental quantum atom optics,
but also for the measurement of fields in many-body systems of massive particles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10654 
PMID: 22139418 


53. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7375):87-90. doi: 10.1038/nature10609.

Correlation between deep fluids, tremor and creep along the central San Andreas
fault.

Becken M(1), Ritter O, Bedrosian PA, Weckmann U.

Author information: 
(1)GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences, Telegrafenberg, 14473 Potsdam,
Germany. michael.becken@uni-muenster.de

The seismicity pattern along the San Andreas fault near Parkfield and Cholame,
California, varies distinctly over a length of only fifty kilometres. Within the 
brittle crust, the presence of frictionally weak minerals, fault-weakening high
fluid pressures and chemical weakening are considered possible causes of an
anomalously weak fault northwest of Parkfield. Non-volcanic tremor from
lower-crustal and upper-mantle depths is most pronounced about thirty kilometres 
southeast of Parkfield and is thought to be associated with high pore-fluid
pressures at depth. Here we present geophysical evidence of fluids migrating into
the creeping section of the San Andreas fault that seem to originate in the
region of the uppermost mantle that also stimulates tremor, and evidence that
along-strike variations in tremor activity and amplitude are related to strength 
variations in the lower crust and upper mantle. Interconnected fluids can explain
a deep zone of anomalously low electrical resistivity that has been imaged by
magnetotelluric data southwest of the Parkfield-Cholame segment. Near Cholame,
where fluids seem to be trapped below a high-resistivity cap, tremor concentrates
adjacent to the inferred fluids within a mechanically strong zone of high
resistivity. By contrast, subvertical zones of low resistivity breach the entire 
crust near the drill hole of the San Andreas Fault Observatory at Depth,
northwest of Parkfield, and imply pathways for deep fluids into the eastern fault
block, coincident with a mechanically weak crust and the lower tremor amplitudes 
in the lower crust. Fluid influx to the fault system is consistent with
hypotheses of fault-weakening high fluid pressures in the brittle crust.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10609 
PMID: 22129729 


54. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7375):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature10655.

The oxidation state of Hadean magmas and implications for early Earth's
atmosphere.

Trail D(1), Watson EB, Tailby ND.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, Troy, New York 12180, USA. traild@rpi.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):48-9.

Magmatic outgassing of volatiles from Earth's interior probably played a critical
part in determining the composition of the earliest atmosphere, more than 4,000
million years (Myr) ago. Given an elemental inventory of hydrogen, carbon,
nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur, the identity of molecular species in gaseous
volcanic emanations depends critically on the pressure (fugacity) of oxygen.
Reduced melts having oxygen fugacities close to that defined by the iron-wüstite 
buffer would yield volatile species such as CH(4), H(2), H(2)S, NH(3) and CO,
whereas melts close to the fayalite-magnetite-quartz buffer would be similar to
present-day conditions and would be dominated by H(2)O, CO(2), SO(2) and N(2)
(refs 1-4). Direct constraints on the oxidation state of terrestrial magmas
before 3,850 Myr before present (that is, the Hadean eon) are tenuous because the
rock record is sparse or absent. Samples from this earliest period of Earth's
history are limited to igneous detrital zircons that pre-date the known rock
record, with ages approaching ∼4,400 Myr (refs 5-8). Here we report a
redox-sensitive calibration to determine the oxidation state of Hadean magmatic
melts that is based on the incorporation of cerium into zircon crystals. We find 
that the melts have average oxygen fugacities that are consistent with an
oxidation state defined by the fayalite-magnetite-quartz buffer, similar to
present-day conditions. Moreover, selected Hadean zircons (having chemical
characteristics consistent with crystallization specifically from mantle-derived 
melts) suggest oxygen fugacities similar to those of Archaean and present-day
mantle-derived lavas as early as ∼4,350 Myr before present. These results suggest
that outgassing of Earth's interior later than ∼200 Myr into the history of Solar
System formation would not have resulted in a reducing atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10655 
PMID: 22129728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7375):75-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10627.

Observation of a pairing pseudogap in a two-dimensional Fermi gas.

Feld M(1), Fröhlich B, Vogt E, Koschorreck M, Köhl M.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, UK.

Pairing of fermions is ubiquitous in nature, underlying many phenomena. Examples 
include superconductivity, superfluidity of (3)He, the anomalous rotation of
neutron stars, and the crossover between Bose-Einstein condensation of dimers and
the BCS (Bardeen, Cooper and Schrieffer) regime in strongly interacting Fermi
gases. When confined to two dimensions, interacting many-body systems show even
more subtle effects, many of which are not understood at a fundamental level.
Most striking is the (as yet unexplained) phenomenon of high-temperature
superconductivity in copper oxides, which is intimately related to the
two-dimensional geometry of the crystal structure. In particular, it is not
understood how the many-body pairing is established at high temperature, and
whether it precedes superconductivity. Here we report the observation of a
many-body pairing gap above the superfluid transition temperature in a
harmonically trapped, two-dimensional atomic Fermi gas in the regime of strong
coupling. Our measurements of the spectral function of the gas are performed
using momentum-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, analogous to angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy in the solid state. Our observations mark a
significant step in the emulation of layered two-dimensional strongly correlated 
superconductors using ultracold atomic gases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10627 
PMID: 22129727 


56. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7375):72-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10611.

The unusual γ-ray burst GRB 101225A from a helium star/neutron star merger at
redshift 0.33.

Thöne CC(1), de Ugarte Postigo A, Fryer CL, Page KL, Gorosabel J, Aloy MA, Perley
DA, Kouveliotou C, Janka HT, Mimica P, Racusin JL, Krimm H, Cummings J, Oates SR,
Holland ST, Siegel MH, De Pasquale M, Sonbas E, Im M, Park WK, Kann DA, Guziy S, 
García LH, Llorente A, Bundy K, Choi C, Jeong H, Korhonen H, Kubànek P, Lim J,
Moskvitin A, Muñoz-Darias T, Pak S, Parrish I.

Author information: 
(1)IAA - CSIC, Glorieta de la Astronomía s/n, 18008 Granada, Spain.
cthoene@iaa.es

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 2;482(7383):120.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):47-8.

Long γ-ray bursts (GRBs) are the most dramatic examples of massive stellar
deaths, often associated with supernovae. They release ultra-relativistic jets,
which produce non-thermal emission through synchrotron radiation as they interact
with the surrounding medium. Here we report observations of the unusual GRB
101225A. Its γ-ray emission was exceptionally long-lived and was followed by a
bright X-ray transient with a hot thermal component and an unusual optical
counterpart. During the first 10 days, the optical emission evolved as an
expanding, cooling black body, after which an additional component, consistent
with a faint supernova, emerged. We estimate its redshift to be z = 0.33 by
fitting the spectral-energy distribution and light curve of the optical emission 
with a GRB-supernova template. Deep optical observations may have revealed a
faint, unresolved host galaxy. Our proposed progenitor is a merger of a helium
star with a neutron star that underwent a common envelope phase, expelling its
hydrogen envelope. The resulting explosion created a GRB-like jet which became
thermalized by interacting with the dense, previously ejected material, thus
creating the observed black body, until finally the emission from the supernova
dominated. An alternative explanation is a minor body falling onto a neutron star
in the Galaxy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10611 
PMID: 22129726 


57. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7375):69-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10592.

The unusual gamma-ray burst GRB 101225A explained as a minor body falling onto a 
neutron star.

Campana S(1), Lodato G, D'Avanzo P, Panagia N, Rossi EM, Della Valle M,
Tagliaferri G, Antonelli LA, Covino S, Ghirlanda G, Ghisellini G, Melandri A,
Pian E, Salvaterra R, Cusumano G, D'Elia V, Fugazza D, Palazzi E, Sbarufatti B,
Vergani SD.

Author information: 
(1)INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via E. Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate,
Italy. sergio.campana@brera.inaf.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):47-8.

The tidal disruption of a solar-mass star around a supermassive black hole has
been extensively studied analytically and numerically. In these events, the star 
develops into an elongated banana-shaped structure. After completing an eccentric
orbit, the bound debris falls into the black hole, forming an accretion disk and 
emitting radiation. The same process may occur on planetary scales if a minor
body passes too close to its star. In the Solar System, comets fall directly into
our Sun or onto planets. If the star is a compact object, the minor body can
become tidally disrupted. Indeed, one of the first mechanisms invoked to produce 
strong gamma-ray emission involved accretion of comets onto neutron stars in our 
Galaxy. Here we report that the peculiarities of the 'Christmas' gamma-ray burst 
(GRB 101225A) can be explained by a tidal disruption event of a minor body around
an isolated Galactic neutron star. This would indicate either that minor bodies
can be captured by compact stellar remnants more frequently than occurs in the
Solar System or that minor-body formation is relatively easy around millisecond
radio pulsars. A peculiar supernova associated with a gamma-ray burst provides an
alternative explanation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10592 
PMID: 22129725 


58. Nature. 2011 Nov 30;480(7375):51-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10580.

The case against climate regulation via oceanic phytoplankton sulphur emissions.

Quinn PK(1), Bates TS.

Author information: 
(1)NOAA Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, Seattle, Washington 98115, USA. 
patricia.k.quinn@noaa.gov

More than twenty years ago, a biological regulation of climate was proposed
whereby emissions of dimethyl sulphide from oceanic phytoplankton resulted in the
formation of aerosol particles that acted as cloud condensation nuclei in the
marine boundary layer. In this hypothesis--referred to as CLAW--the increase in
cloud condensation nuclei led to an increase in cloud albedo with the resulting
changes in temperature and radiation initiating a climate feedback altering
dimethyl sulphide emissions from phytoplankton. Over the past two decades,
observations in the marine boundary layer, laboratory studies and modelling
efforts have been conducted seeking evidence for the CLAW hypothesis. The results
indicate that a dimethyl sulphide biological control over cloud condensation
nuclei probably does not exist and that sources of these nuclei to the marine
boundary layer and the response of clouds to changes in aerosol are much more
complex than was recognized twenty years ago. These results indicate that it is
time to retire the CLAW hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10580 
PMID: 22129724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nature. 2011 Nov 27;480(7378):538-42. doi: 10.1038/nature10664.

Response to self antigen imprints regulatory memory in tissues.

Rosenblum MD(1), Gratz IK, Paw JS, Lee K, Marshak-Rothstein A, Abbas AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Jan;12(1):4.

Immune homeostasis in tissues is achieved through a delicate balance between
pathogenic T-cell responses directed at tissue-specific antigens and the ability 
of the tissue to inhibit these responses. The mechanisms by which tissues and the
immune system communicate to establish and maintain immune homeostasis are
currently unknown. Clinical evidence suggests that chronic or repeated exposure
to self antigen within tissues leads to an attenuation of pathological autoimmune
responses, possibly as a means to mitigate inflammatory damage and preserve
function. Many human organ-specific autoimmune diseases are characterized by the 
initial presentation of the disease being the most severe, with subsequent flares
being of lesser severity and duration. In fact, these diseases often
spontaneously resolve, despite persistent tissue autoantigen expression. In the
practice of antigen-specific immunotherapy, allergens or self antigens are
repeatedly injected in the skin, with a diminution of the inflammatory response
occurring after each successive exposure. Although these findings indicate that
tissues acquire the ability to attenuate autoimmune reactions upon repeated
responses to antigens, the mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. Here we
show that upon expression of self antigen in a peripheral tissue, thymus-derived 
regulatory T cells (T(reg) cells) become activated, proliferate and differentiate
into more potent suppressors, which mediate resolution of organ-specific
autoimmunity in mice. After resolution of the inflammatory response, activated
T(reg) cells are maintained in the target tissue and are primed to attenuate
subsequent autoimmune reactions when antigen is re-expressed. Thus, T(reg) cells 
function to confer 'regulatory memory' to the target tissue. These findings
provide a framework for understanding how T(reg) cells respond when exposed to
self antigen in peripheral tissues and offer mechanistic insight into how tissues
regulate autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10664 
PMCID: PMC3263357
PMID: 22121024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2011 Nov 27;480(7378):565-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10641.

Structures of the multidrug exporter AcrB reveal a proximal multisite
drug-binding pocket.

Nakashima R(1), Sakurai K, Yamasaki S, Nishino K, Yamaguchi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Membrane Biology, Institute of Scientific and Industrial
Research, Osaka University, Ibaraki, Osaka 567-0047, Japan.

AcrB and its homologues are the principal multidrug transporters in Gram-negative
bacteria and are important in antibiotic drug tolerance. AcrB is a homotrimer
that acts as a tripartite complex with the outer membrane channel TolC and the
membrane fusion protein AcrA. Minocycline and doxorubicin have been shown to bind
to the phenylalanine cluster region of the binding monomer. Here we report the
crystal structures of AcrB bound to the high-molecular-mass drugs rifampicin and 
erythromycin. These drugs bind to the access monomer, and the binding sites are
located in the proximal multisite binding pocket, which is separated from the
phenylalanine cluster region (distal pocket) by the Phe-617 loop. Our structures 
indicate that there are two discrete multisite binding pockets along the
intramolecular channel. High-molecular-mass drugs first bind to the proximal
pocket in the access state and are then forced into the distal pocket in the
binding state by a peristaltic mechanism involving subdomain movements that
include a shift of the Phe-617 loop. By contrast, low-molecular-mass drugs, such 
as minocycline and doxorubicin, travel through the proximal pocket without
specific binding and immediately bind to the distal pocket. The presence of two
discrete, high-volume multisite binding pockets contributes to the remarkably
broad substrate recognition of AcrB.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10641 
PMID: 22121023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 2011 Nov 27;481(7379):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature10663.

Structure of a methyl-coenzyme M reductase from Black Sea mats that oxidize
methane anaerobically.

Shima S(1), Krueger M, Weinert T, Demmer U, Kahnt J, Thauer RK, Ermler U.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Karl-Frisch-Strasse 10,
D-35043 Marburg, Germany. shima@mpi-marburg.mpg.de

The anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) with sulphate, an area currently
generating great interest in microbiology, is accomplished by consortia of
methanotrophic archaea (ANME) and sulphate-reducing bacteria. The enzyme
activating methane in methanotrophic archaea has tentatively been identified as a
homologue of methyl-coenzyme M reductase (MCR) that catalyses the methane-forming
step in methanogenic archaea. Here we report an X-ray structure of the 280 kDa
heterohexameric ANME-1 MCR complex. It was crystallized uniquely from a protein
ensemble purified from consortia of microorganisms collected with a submersible
from a Black Sea mat catalysing AOM with sulphate. Crystals grown from the
heterogeneous sample diffract to 2.1 Å resolution and consist of a single ANME-1 
MCR population, demonstrating the strong selective power of crystallization. The 
structure revealed ANME-1 MCR in complex with coenzyme M and coenzyme B,
indicating the same substrates for MCR from methanotrophic and methanogenic
archaea. Differences between the highly similar structures of ANME-1 MCR and
methanogenic MCR include a F(430) modification, a cysteine-rich patch and an
altered post-translational amino acid modification pattern, which may tune the
enzymes for their functions in different biological contexts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10663 
PMID: 22121022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 2011 Nov 27;480(7378):561-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10657.

An equilibrium-dependent retroviral mRNA switch regulates translational recoding.

Houck-Loomis B(1), Durney MA, Salguero C, Shankar N, Nagle JM, Goff SP, D'Souza
VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Most retroviruses require translational recoding of a viral messenger RNA stop
codon to maintain a precise ratio of structural (Gag) and enzymatic (Pol)
proteins during virus assembly. Pol is expressed exclusively as a Gag-Pol fusion 
either by ribosomal frameshifting or by read-through of the gag stop codon. Both 
of these mechanisms occur infrequently and only affect 5-10% of translating
ribosomes, allowing the virus to maintain the critical Gag to Gag-Pol ratio.
Although it is understood that the frequency of the recoding event is regulated
by cis RNA motifs, no mechanistic explanation is currently available for how the 
critical protein ratio is maintained. Here we present the NMR structure of the
murine leukaemia virus recoding signal and show that a protonation-dependent
switch occurs to induce the active conformation. The equilibrium is such that at 
physiological pH the active, read-through permissive conformation is populated at
approximately 6%: a level that correlates with in vivo protein quantities. The
RNA functions by a highly sensitive, chemo-mechanical coupling tuned to ensure an
optimal read-through frequency. Similar observations for a frameshifting signal
indicate that this novel equilibrium-based mechanism may have a general role in
translational recoding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10657 
PMCID: PMC3582340
PMID: 22121021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 2011 Nov 27;480(7378):557-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10656.

GlcNAcylation of histone H2B facilitates its monoubiquitination.

Fujiki R(1), Hashiba W, Sekine H, Yokoyama A, Chikanishi T, Ito S, Imai Y, Kim J,
He HH, Igarashi K, Kanno J, Ohtake F, Kitagawa H, Roeder RG, Brown M, Kato S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1
Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Chromatin reorganization is governed by multiple post-translational modifications
of chromosomal proteins and DNA. These histone modifications are reversible,
dynamic events that can regulate DNA-driven cellular processes. However, the
molecular mechanisms that coordinate histone modification patterns remain largely
unknown. In metazoans, reversible protein modification by O-linked
N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) is catalysed by two enzymes, O-GlcNAc transferase
(OGT) and O-GlcNAcase (OGA). However, the significance of GlcNAcylation in
chromatin reorganization remains elusive. Here we report that histone H2B is
GlcNAcylated at residue S112 by OGT in vitro and in living cells. Histone
GlcNAcylation fluctuated in response to extracellular glucose through the
hexosamine biosynthesis pathway (HBP). H2B S112 GlcNAcylation promotes K120
monoubiquitination, in which the GlcNAc moiety can serve as an anchor for a
histone H2B ubiquitin ligase. H2B S112 GlcNAc was localized to euchromatic areas 
on fly polytene chromosomes. In a genome-wide analysis, H2B S112 GlcNAcylation
sites were observed widely distributed over chromosomes including transcribed
gene loci, with some sites co-localizing with H2B K120 monoubiquitination. These 
findings suggest that H2B S112 GlcNAcylation is a histone modification that
facilitates H2BK120 monoubiquitination, presumably for transcriptional
activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10656 
PMID: 22121020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 2011 Nov 27;480(7376):264-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10672.

Miwi catalysis is required for piRNA amplification-independent LINE1 transposon
silencing.

Reuter M(1), Berninger P, Chuma S, Shah H, Hosokawa M, Funaya C, Antony C,
Sachidanandam R, Pillai RS.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, 6 Rue Jules Horowitz, BP 181, 38042
Grenoble, France.

Repetitive-element-derived Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) act together with Piwi 
proteins Mili (also known as Piwil2) and Miwi2 (also known as Piwil4) in a genome
defence mechanism that initiates transposon silencing via DNA methylation in the 
mouse male embryonic germ line. This silencing depends on the participation of
the Piwi proteins in a slicer-dependent piRNA amplification pathway and is
essential for male fertility. A third Piwi family member, Miwi (also known as
Piwil1), is expressed in specific postnatal germ cells and associates with a
unique set of piRNAs of unknown function. Here we show that Miwi is a small
RNA-guided RNase (slicer) that requires extensive complementarity for target
cleavage in vitro. Disruption of its catalytic activity in mice by a single point
mutation causes male infertility, and mutant germ cells show increased
accumulation of LINE1 retrotransposon transcripts. We provide evidence for Miwi
slicer activity directly cleaving transposon messenger RNAs, offering an
explanation for the continued maintenance of repeat-derived piRNAs long after
transposon silencing is established in germline stem cells. Furthermore, our
study supports a slicer-dependent silencing mechanism that functions without
piRNA amplification. Thus, Piwi proteins seem to act in a two-pronged mammalian
transposon silencing strategy: one promotes transcriptional repression in the
embryo, the other reinforces silencing at the post-transcriptional level after
birth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10672 
PMID: 22121019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;479(7374):513-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10621.

Evidence for an oxygen-depleted liquid outer core of the Earth.

Huang H(1), Fei Y, Cai L, Jing F, Hu X, Xie H, Zhang L, Gong Z.

Author information: 
(1)School of Sciences, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430070,
China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):480-1.

On the basis of geophysical observations, cosmochemical constraints, and
high-pressure experimental data, the Earth's liquid outer core consists of mainly
liquid iron alloyed with about ten per cent (by weight) of light elements.
Although the concentrations of the light elements are small, they nevertheless
affect the Earth's core: its rate of cooling, the growth of the inner core, the
dynamics of core convection, and the evolution of the geodynamo. Several light
elements-including sulphur, oxygen, silicon, carbon and hydrogen-have been
suggested, but the precise identity of the light elements in the Earth's core is 
still unclear. Oxygen has been proposed as a major light element in the core on
the basis of cosmochemical arguments and chemical reactions during accretion. Its
presence in the core has direct implications for Earth accretion conditions of
oxidation state, pressure and temperature. Here we report new shockwave data in
the Fe-S-O system that are directly applicable to the outer core. The data
include both density and sound velocity measurements, which we compare with the
observed density and velocity profiles of the liquid outer core. The results show
that we can rule out oxygen as a major light element in the liquid outer core
because adding oxygen into liquid iron would not reproduce simultaneously the
observed density and sound velocity profiles of the outer core. An
oxygen-depleted core would imply a more reduced environment during early Earth
accretion.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10621 
PMID: 22113693 


66. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;479(7374):509-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10581.

Reconstructed changes in Arctic sea ice over the past 1,450 years.

Kinnard C(1), Zdanowicz CM, Fisher DA, Isaksson E, de Vernal A, Thompson LG.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudios Avanzados en Zonas Áridas, Benavente 980, Casilla 554, La
Serena, 1720170, Chile. christophe.kinnard@ceaza.cl

Arctic sea ice extent is now more than two million square kilometres less than it
was in the late twentieth century, with important consequences for the climate,
the ocean and traditional lifestyles in the Arctic. Although observations show a 
more or less continuous decline for the past four or five decades, there are few 
long-term records with which to assess natural sea ice variability. Until now,
the question of whether or not current trends are potentially anomalous has
therefore remained unanswerable. Here we use a network of high-resolution
terrestrial proxies from the circum-Arctic region to reconstruct past extents of 
summer sea ice, and show that-although extensive uncertainties remain, especially
before the sixteenth century-both the duration and magnitude of the current
decline in sea ice seem to be unprecedented for the past 1,450 years. Enhanced
advection of warm Atlantic water to the Arctic seems to be the main factor
driving the decline of sea ice extent on multidecadal timescales, and may result 
from nonlinear feedbacks between sea ice and the Atlantic meridional overturning 
circulation. These results reinforce the assertion that sea ice is an active
component of Arctic climate variability and that the recent decrease in summer
Arctic sea ice is consistent with anthropogenically forced warming.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10581 
PMID: 22113692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;479(7374):506-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10586.

Structural transformation in supercooled water controls the crystallization rate 
of ice.

Moore EB(1), Molinero V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112-0580, 
USA.

One of water's unsolved puzzles is the question of what determines the lowest
temperature to which it can be cooled before freezing to ice. The supercooled
liquid has been probed experimentally to near the homogeneous nucleation
temperature, T(H) ≈ 232 K, yet the mechanism of ice crystallization-including the
size and structure of critical nuclei-has not yet been resolved. The heat
capacity and compressibility of liquid water anomalously increase on moving into 
the supercooled region, according to power laws that would diverge (that is,
approach infinity) at ~225 K (refs 1, 2), so there may be a link between water's 
thermodynamic anomalies and the crystallization rate of ice. But probing this
link is challenging because fast crystallization prevents experimental studies of
the liquid below T(H). And although atomistic studies have captured water
crystallization, high computational costs have so far prevented an assessment of 
the rates and mechanism involved. Here we report coarse-grained molecular
simulations with the mW water model in the supercooled regime around T(H) which
reveal that a sharp increase in the fraction of four-coordinated molecules in
supercooled liquid water explains its anomalous thermodynamics and also controls 
the rate and mechanisms of ice formation. The results of the simulations and
classical nucleation theory using experimental data suggest that the
crystallization rate of water reaches a maximum around 225 K, below which ice
nuclei form faster than liquid water can equilibrate. This implies a lower limit 
of metastability of liquid water just below T(H) and well above its glass
transition temperature, 136 K. By establishing a relationship between the
structural transformation in liquid water and its anomalous thermodynamics and
crystallization rate, our findings also provide mechanistic insight into the
observed dependence of homogeneous ice nucleation rates on the thermodynamics of 
water.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10586 
PMID: 22113691 


68. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;479(7374):487-92. doi: 10.1038/nature10640.

The genome of Tetranychus urticae reveals herbivorous pest adaptations.

Grbić M(1), Van Leeuwen T, Clark RM, Rombauts S, Rouzé P, Grbić V, Osborne EJ,
Dermauw W, Ngoc PC, Ortego F, Hernández-Crespo P, Diaz I, Martinez M, Navajas M, 
Sucena É, Magalhães S, Nagy L, Pace RM, Djuranović S, Smagghe G, Iga M,
Christiaens O, Veenstra JA, Ewer J, Villalobos RM, Hutter JL, Hudson SD, Velez M,
Yi SV, Zeng J, Pires-daSilva A, Roch F, Cazaux M, Navarro M, Zhurov V, Acevedo G,
Bjelica A, Fawcett JA, Bonnet E, Martens C, Baele G, Wissler L, Sanchez-Rodriguez
A, Tirry L, Blais C, Demeestere K, Henz SR, Gregory TR, Mathieu J, Verdon L,
Farinelli L, Schmutz J, Lindquist E, Feyereisen R, Van de Peer Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, The University of Western Ontario, London N6A 5B7,
Canada. mgrbic@uwo.ca

The spider mite Tetranychus urticae is a cosmopolitan agricultural pest with an
extensive host plant range and an extreme record of pesticide resistance. Here we
present the completely sequenced and annotated spider mite genome, representing
the first complete chelicerate genome. At 90 megabases T. urticae has the
smallest sequenced arthropod genome. Compared with other arthropods, the spider
mite genome shows unique changes in the hormonal environment and organization of 
the Hox complex, and also reveals evolutionary innovation of silk production. We 
find strong signatures of polyphagy and detoxification in gene families
associated with feeding on different hosts and in new gene families acquired by
lateral gene transfer. Deep transcriptome analysis of mites feeding on different 
plants shows how this pest responds to a changing host environment. The T.
urticae genome thus offers new insights into arthropod evolution and
plant-herbivore interactions, and provides unique opportunities for developing
novel plant protection strategies.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10640 
PMCID: PMC4856440
PMID: 22113690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;480(7377):336-43. doi: 10.1038/nature10696.

Structure of HIV-1 gp120 V1/V2 domain with broadly neutralizing antibody PG9.

McLellan JS(1), Pancera M, Carrico C, Gorman J, Julien JP, Khayat R, Louder R,
Pejchal R, Sastry M, Dai K, O'Dell S, Patel N, Shahzad-ul-Hussan S, Yang Y, Zhang
B, Zhou T, Zhu J, Boyington JC, Chuang GY, Diwanji D, Georgiev I, Kwon YD, Lee D,
Louder MK, Moquin S, Schmidt SD, Yang ZY, Bonsignori M, Crump JA, Kapiga SH, Sam 
NE, Haynes BF, Burton DR, Koff WC, Walker LM, Phogat S, Wyatt R, Orwenyo J, Wang 
LX, Arthos J, Bewley CA, Mascola JR, Nabel GJ, Schief WR, Ward AB, Wilson IA,
Kwong PD.

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 15;480(7377):324-5.

Variable regions 1 and 2 (V1/V2) of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) gp120 
envelope glycoprotein are critical for viral evasion of antibody neutralization, 
and are themselves protected by extraordinary sequence diversity and N-linked
glycosylation. Human antibodies such as PG9 nonetheless engage V1/V2 and
neutralize 80% of HIV-1 isolates. Here we report the structure of V1/V2 in
complex with PG9. V1/V2 forms a four-stranded β-sheet domain, in which sequence
diversity and glycosylation are largely segregated to strand-connecting loops.
PG9 recognition involves electrostatic, sequence-independent and glycan
interactions: the latter account for over half the interactive surface but are of
sufficiently weak affinity to avoid autoreactivity. The structures of
V1/V2-directed antibodies CH04 and PGT145 indicate that they share a common mode 
of glycan penetration by extended anionic loops. In addition to structurally
defining V1/V2, the results thus identify a paradigm of antibody recognition for 
highly glycosylated antigens, which-with PG9-involves a site of vulnerability
comprising just two glycans and a strand.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10696 
PMCID: PMC3406929
PMID: 22113616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;480(7375):63-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10658.

Mutations causing syndromic autism define an axis of synaptic pathophysiology.

Auerbach BD(1), Osterweil EK, Bear MF.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Picower Institute for Learning and
Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Jan;13(1):3.

Tuberous sclerosis complex and fragile X syndrome are genetic diseases
characterized by intellectual disability and autism. Because both syndromes are
caused by mutations in genes that regulate protein synthesis in neurons, it has
been hypothesized that excessive protein synthesis is one core pathophysiological
mechanism of intellectual disability and autism. Using electrophysiological and
biochemical assays of neuronal protein synthesis in the hippocampus of Tsc2(+/-) 
and Fmr1(-/y) mice, here we show that synaptic dysfunction caused by these
mutations actually falls at opposite ends of a physiological spectrum. Synaptic, 
biochemical and cognitive defects in these mutants are corrected by treatments
that modulate metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 in opposite directions, and
deficits in the mutants disappear when the mice are bred to carry both mutations.
Thus, normal synaptic plasticity and cognition occur within an optimal range of
metabotropic glutamate-receptor-mediated protein synthesis, and deviations in
either direction can lead to shared behavioural impairments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10658 
PMCID: PMC3228874
PMID: 22113615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;480(7375):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10596.

Subduction dynamics and the origin of Andean orogeny and the Bolivian orocline.

Capitanio FA(1), Faccenna C, Zlotnik S, Stegman DR.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geosciences, Monash University, Clayton, 3800 Victoria, Australia.
fabio.capitanio@monash.edu

The building of the Andes results from the subduction of the oceanic Nazca plate 
underneath the South American continent. However, how and why the Andes and their
curvature, the Bolivian orocline, formed in the Cenozoic era (65.5 million years 
(Myr) ago to present), despite subduction continuing since the Mesozoic era
(251.0-65.5 Myr ago), is still unknown. Three-dimensional numerical subduction
models demonstrate that variations in slab thickness, arising from the Nazca
plate's age at the trench, produce a cordilleran morphology consistent with that 
observed. The age-dependent sinking of the slab in the mantle drives traction
towards the trench at the base of the upper plate, causing it to thicken. Thus,
subducting older Nazca plate below the Central Andes can explain the locally
thickened crust and higher elevations. Here we demonstrate that resultant
thickening of the South American plate modifies both shear force gradients and
migration rates along the trench to produce a concave margin that matches the
Bolivian orocline. Additionally, the varying forcing along the margin allows
stress belts to form in the upper-plate interior, explaining the widening of the 
Central Andes and the different tectonic styles found on their margins, the
Eastern and Western Cordilleras. The rise of the Central Andes and orocline
formation are directly related to the local increase of Nazca plate age and an
age distribution along the margin similar to that found today; the onset of these
conditions only occurred in the Eocene epoch. This may explain the enigmatic
delay of the Andean orogeny, that is, the formation of the modern Andes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10596 
PMID: 22113613 


72. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;480(7377):387-90. doi: 10.1038/nature10662.

RAF inhibitor resistance is mediated by dimerization of aberrantly spliced
BRAF(V600E).

Poulikakos PI(1), Persaud Y, Janakiraman M, Kong X, Ng C, Moriceau G, Shi H,
Atefi M, Titz B, Gabay MT, Salton M, Dahlman KB, Tadi M, Wargo JA, Flaherty KT,
Kelley MC, Misteli T, Chapman PB, Sosman JA, Graeber TG, Ribas A, Lo RS, Rosen N,
Solit DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Chemistry, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2012 Jan 17;21(1):7-9.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Jan;9(1):5.
    Nature. 2011 Dec 15;480(7377):329-30.

Activated RAS promotes dimerization of members of the RAF kinase family.
ATP-competitive RAF inhibitors activate ERK signalling by transactivating RAF
dimers. In melanomas with mutant BRAF(V600E), levels of RAS activation are low
and these drugs bind to BRAF(V600E) monomers and inhibit their activity. This
tumour-specific inhibition of ERK signalling results in a broad therapeutic index
and RAF inhibitors have remarkable clinical activity in patients with melanomas
that harbour mutant BRAF(V600E). However, resistance invariably develops. Here,
we identify a new resistance mechanism. We find that a subset of cells resistant 
to vemurafenib (PLX4032, RG7204) express a 61-kDa variant form of BRAF(V600E),
p61BRAF(V600E), which lacks exons 4-8, a region that encompasses the RAS-binding 
domain. p61BRAF(V600E) shows enhanced dimerization in cells with low levels of
RAS activation, as compared to full-length BRAF(V600E). In cells in which
p61BRAF(V600E) is expressed endogenously or ectopically, ERK signalling is
resistant to the RAF inhibitor. Moreover, a mutation that abolishes the
dimerization of p61BRAF(V600E) restores its sensitivity to vemurafenib. Finally, 
we identified BRAF(V600E) splicing variants lacking the RAS-binding domain in the
tumours of six of nineteen patients with acquired resistance to vemurafenib.
These data support the model that inhibition of ERK signalling by RAF inhibitors 
is dependent on levels of RAS-GTP too low to support RAF dimerization and
identify a novel mechanism of acquired resistance in patients: expression of
splicing isoforms of BRAF(V600E) that dimerize in a RAS-independent manner.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10662 
PMCID: PMC3266695
PMID: 22113612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2011 Nov 23;480(7378):543-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10671.

Excitation-induced ataxin-3 aggregation in neurons from patients with
Machado-Joseph disease.

Koch P(1), Breuer P, Peitz M, Jungverdorben J, Kesavan J, Poppe D, Doerr J,
Ladewig J, Mertens J, Tüting T, Hoffmann P, Klockgether T, Evert BO, Wüllner U,
Brüstle O.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reconstructive Neurobiology, Life and Brain Center, University of
Bonn and Hertie Foundation, 53127 Bonn, Germany.

Machado-Joseph disease (MJD; also called spinocerebellar ataxia type 3) is a
dominantly inherited late-onset neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of
polyglutamine (polyQ)-encoding CAG repeats in the MJD1 gene (also known as
ATXN3). Proteolytic liberation of highly aggregation-prone polyQ fragments from
the protective sequence of the MJD1 gene product ataxin 3 (ATXN3) has been
proposed to trigger the formation of ATXN3-containing aggregates, the
neuropathological hallmark of MJD. ATXN3 fragments are detected in brain tissue
of MJD patients and transgenic mice expressing mutant human ATXN3(Q71), and their
amount increases with disease severity, supporting a relationship between ATXN3
processing and disease progression. The formation of early aggregation
intermediates is thought to have a critical role in disease initiation, but the
precise pathogenic mechanism operating in MJD has remained elusive. Here we show 
that L-glutamate-induced excitation of patient-specific induced pluripotent stem 
cell (iPSC)-derived neurons initiates Ca(2+)-dependent proteolysis of ATXN3
followed by the formation of SDS-insoluble aggregates. This phenotype could be
abolished by calpain inhibition, confirming a key role of this protease in ATXN3 
aggregation. Aggregate formation was further dependent on functional Na(+) and
K(+) channels as well as ionotropic and voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, and was
not observed in iPSCs, fibroblasts or glia, thereby providing an explanation for 
the neuron-specific phenotype of this disease. Our data illustrate that iPSCs
enable the study of aberrant protein processing associated with late-onset
neurodegenerative disorders in patient-specific neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10671 
PMID: 22113611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 2011 Nov 20;480(7375):109-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10632.

Lyn is a redox sensor that mediates leukocyte wound attraction in vivo.

Yoo SK(1), Starnes TW, Deng Q, Huttenlocher A.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Jan;13(1):2-3.

Tissue wounding induces the rapid recruitment of leukocytes. Wounds and
tumours--a type of 'unhealed wound'--generate hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))
through an NADPH oxidase (NOX). This extracellular H(2)O(2) mediates recruitment 
of leukocytes, particularly the first responders of innate immunity, neutrophils,
to injured tissue. However, the sensor that neutrophils use to detect the redox
state at wounds is unknown. Here we identify the Src family kinase (SFK) Lyn as a
redox sensor that mediates initial neutrophil recruitment to wounds in zebrafish 
larvae. Lyn activation in neutrophils is dependent on wound-derived H(2)O(2)
after tissue injury, and inhibition of Lyn attenuates neutrophil wound
recruitment. Inhibition of SFKs also disrupted H(2)O(2)-mediated chemotaxis of
primary human neutrophils. In vitro analysis identified a single cysteine
residue, C466, as being responsible for direct oxidation-mediated activation of
Lyn. Furthermore, transgenic-tissue-specific reconstitution with wild-type Lyn
and a cysteine mutant revealed that Lyn C466 is important for the neutrophil
wound response and downstream signalling in vivo. This is the first
identification, to our knowledge, of a physiological redox sensor that mediates
leukocyte wound attraction in multicellular organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10632 
PMCID: PMC3228893
PMID: 22101434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 2011 Nov 20;481(7381):380-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10602.

Reductive glutamine metabolism by IDH1 mediates lipogenesis under hypoxia.

Metallo CM(1), Gameiro PA, Bell EL, Mattaini KR, Yang J, Hiller K, Jewell CM,
Johnson ZR, Irvine DJ, Guarente L, Kelleher JK, Vander Heiden MG, Iliopoulos O,
Stephanopoulos G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Acetyl coenzyme A (AcCoA) is the central biosynthetic precursor for fatty-acid
synthesis and protein acetylation. In the conventional view of mammalian cell
metabolism, AcCoA is primarily generated from glucose-derived pyruvate through
the citrate shuttle and ATP citrate lyase in the cytosol. However, proliferating 
cells that exhibit aerobic glycolysis and those exposed to hypoxia convert
glucose to lactate at near-stoichiometric levels, directing glucose carbon away
from the tricarboxylic acid cycle and fatty-acid synthesis. Although glutamine is
consumed at levels exceeding that required for nitrogen biosynthesis, the
regulation and use of glutamine metabolism in hypoxic cells is not well
understood. Here we show that human cells use reductive metabolism of
α-ketoglutarate to synthesize AcCoA for lipid synthesis. This isocitrate
dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1)-dependent pathway is active in most cell lines under
normal culture conditions, but cells grown under hypoxia rely almost exclusively 
on the reductive carboxylation of glutamine-derived α-ketoglutarate for de novo
lipogenesis. Furthermore, renal cell lines deficient in the von Hippel-Lindau
tumour suppressor protein preferentially use reductive glutamine metabolism for
lipid biosynthesis even at normal oxygen levels. These results identify a
critical role for oxygen in regulating carbon use to produce AcCoA and support
lipid synthesis in mammalian cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10602 
PMCID: PMC3710581
PMID: 22101433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 2011 Nov 20;481(7381):385-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10642.

Reductive carboxylation supports growth in tumour cells with defective
mitochondria.

Mullen AR(1), Wheaton WW, Jin ES, Chen PH, Sullivan LB, Cheng T, Yang Y, Linehan 
WM, Chandel NS, DeBerardinis RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas - Southwestern Medical Center at
Dallas, Dallas, Texas 75390-9063, USA.

Mitochondrial metabolism provides precursors to build macromolecules in growing
cancer cells. In normally functioning tumour cell mitochondria, oxidative
metabolism of glucose- and glutamine-derived carbon produces citrate and
acetyl-coenzyme A for lipid synthesis, which is required for tumorigenesis. Yet
some tumours harbour mutations in the citric acid cycle (CAC) or electron
transport chain (ETC) that disable normal oxidative mitochondrial function, and
it is unknown how cells from such tumours generate precursors for macromolecular 
synthesis. Here we show that tumour cells with defective mitochondria use
glutamine-dependent reductive carboxylation rather than oxidative metabolism as
the major pathway of citrate formation. This pathway uses mitochondrial and
cytosolic isoforms of NADP(+)/NADPH-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase, and
subsequent metabolism of glutamine-derived citrate provides both the
acetyl-coenzyme A for lipid synthesis and the four-carbon intermediates needed to
produce the remaining CAC metabolites and related macromolecular precursors. This
reductive, glutamine-dependent pathway is the dominant mode of metabolism in
rapidly growing malignant cells containing mutations in complex I or complex III 
of the ETC, in patient-derived renal carcinoma cells with mutations in fumarate
hydratase, and in cells with normal mitochondria subjected to acute
pharmacological ETC inhibition. Our findings reveal the novel induction of a
versatile glutamine-dependent pathway that reverses many of the reactions of the 
canonical CAC, supports tumour cell growth, and explains how cells generate pools
of CAC intermediates in the face of impaired mitochondrial metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10642 
PMCID: PMC3262117
PMID: 22101431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Nature. 2011 Nov 20;481(7381):394-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10624.

Natural killer cells act as rheostats modulating antiviral T cells.

Waggoner SN(1), Cornberg M, Selin LK, Welsh RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Program in Immunology and Virology, University of 
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655, USA.

Antiviral T cells are thought to regulate whether hepatitis C virus (HCV) and
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections result in viral control,
asymptomatic persistence or severe disease, although the reasons for these
different outcomes remain unclear. Recent genetic evidence, however, has
indicated a correlation between certain natural killer (NK)-cell receptors and
progression of both HIV and HCV infection, implying that NK cells have a role in 
these T-cell-associated diseases. Although direct NK-cell-mediated lysis of
virus-infected cells may contribute to antiviral defence during some virus
infections--especially murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) infections in mice and
perhaps HIV in humans--NK cells have also been suspected of having
immunoregulatory functions. For instance, NK cells may indirectly regulate T-cell
responses by lysing MCMV-infected antigen-presenting cells. In contrast to MCMV, 
lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection in mice seems to be resistant
to any direct antiviral effects of NK cells. Here we examine the roles of NK
cells in regulating T-cell-dependent viral persistence and immunopathology in
mice infected with LCMV, an established model for HIV and HCV infections in
humans. We describe a three-way interaction, whereby activated NK cells
cytolytically eliminate activated CD4 T cells that affect CD8 T-cell function and
exhaustion. At high virus doses, NK cells prevented fatal pathology while
enabling T-cell exhaustion and viral persistence, but at medium doses NK cells
paradoxically facilitated lethal T-cell-mediated pathology. Thus, NK cells can
act as rheostats, regulating CD4 T-cell-mediated support for the antiviral CD8 T 
cells that control viral pathogenesis and persistence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10624 
PMCID: PMC3539796
PMID: 22101430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nature. 2011 Nov 20;480(7375):104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10653.

Alternatively activated macrophages produce catecholamines to sustain adaptive
thermogenesis.

Nguyen KD(1), Qiu Y, Cui X, Goh YP, Mwangi J, David T, Mukundan L, Brombacher F, 
Locksley RM, Chawla A.

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Program, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):46-7.

All homeotherms use thermogenesis to maintain their core body temperature,
ensuring that cellular functions and physiological processes can continue in cold
environments. In the prevailing model of thermogenesis, when the hypothalamus
senses cold temperatures it triggers sympathetic discharge, resulting in the
release of noradrenaline in brown adipose tissue and white adipose tissue. Acting
via the β(3)-adrenergic receptors, noradrenaline induces lipolysis in white
adipocytes, whereas it stimulates the expression of thermogenic genes, such as
PPAR-γ coactivator 1a (Ppargc1a), uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) and acyl-CoA
synthetase long-chain family member 1 (Acsl1), in brown adipocytes. However, the 
precise nature of all the cell types involved in this efferent loop is not well
established. Here we report in mice an unexpected requirement for the
interleukin-4 (IL-4)-stimulated program of alternative macrophage activation in
adaptive thermogenesis. Exposure to cold temperature rapidly promoted alternative
activation of adipose tissue macrophages, which secrete catecholamines to induce 
thermogenic gene expression in brown adipose tissue and lipolysis in white
adipose tissue. Absence of alternatively activated macrophages impaired metabolic
adaptations to cold, whereas administration of IL-4 increased thermogenic gene
expression, fatty acid mobilization and energy expenditure, all in a
macrophage-dependent manner. Thus, we have discovered a role for alternatively
activated macrophages in the orchestration of an important mammalian stress
response, the response to cold.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10653 
PMCID: PMC3371761
PMID: 22101429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):410-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10607.

A heteromeric Texas coral snake toxin targets acid-sensing ion channels to
produce pain.

Bohlen CJ(1), Chesler AT, Sharif-Naeini R, Medzihradszky KF, Zhou S, King D,
Sánchez EE, Burlingame AL, Basbaum AI, Julius D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, San Francisco, California 
94158-2517, USA.

Comment in
    Channels (Austin). 2013 Mar-Apr;7(2):69-70.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 17;479(7373):306-7.

Natural products that elicit discomfort or pain represent invaluable tools for
probing molecular mechanisms underlying pain sensation. Plant-derived irritants
have predominated in this regard, but animal venoms have also evolved to avert
predators by targeting neurons and receptors whose activation produces noxious
sensations. As such, venoms provide a rich and varied source of small molecule
and protein pharmacophores that can be exploited to characterize and manipulate
key components of the pain-signalling pathway. With this in mind, here we perform
an unbiased in vitro screen to identify snake venoms capable of activating
somatosensory neurons. Venom from the Texas coral snake (Micrurus tener tener),
whose bite produces intense and unremitting pain, excites a large cohort of
sensory neurons. The purified active species (MitTx) consists of a heteromeric
complex between Kunitz- and phospholipase-A2-like proteins that together function
as a potent, persistent and selective agonist for acid-sensing ion channels
(ASICs), showing equal or greater efficacy compared with acidic pH. MitTx is
highly selective for the ASIC1 subtype at neutral pH; under more acidic
conditions (pH < 6.5), MitTx massively potentiates (>100-fold) proton-evoked
activation of ASIC2a channels. These observations raise the possibility that ASIC
channels function as coincidence detectors for extracellular protons and other,
as yet unidentified, endogenous factors. Purified MitTx elicits robust
pain-related behaviour in mice by activation of ASIC1 channels on
capsaicin-sensitive nerve fibres. These findings reveal a mechanism whereby snake
venoms produce pain, and highlight an unexpected contribution of ASIC1 channels
to nociception.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10607 
PMCID: PMC3226747
PMID: 22094702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):406-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10559.

Spalt mediates an evolutionarily conserved switch to fibrillar muscle fate in
insects.

Schönbauer C(1), Distler J, Jährling N, Radolf M, Dodt HU, Frasch M, Schnorrer F.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute of Biochemistry, Am Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried,
Germany.

Flying insects oscillate their wings at high frequencies of up to 1,000 Hz and
produce large mechanical forces of 80 W per kilogram of muscle. They utilize a
pair of perpendicularly oriented indirect flight muscles that contain fibrillar, 
stretch-activated myofibres. In contrast, all other, more slowly contracting,
insect body muscles have a tubular muscle morphology. Here we identify the
transcription factor Spalt major (Salm) as a master regulator of fibrillar flight
muscle fate in Drosophila. salm is necessary and sufficient to induce fibrillar
muscle fate. salm switches the entire transcriptional program from tubular to
fibrillar fate by regulating the expression and splicing of key sarcomeric
components specific to each muscle type. Spalt function is conserved in insects
evolutionarily separated by 280 million years. We propose that Spalt proteins
switch myofibres from tubular to fibrillar fate during development, a function
potentially conserved in the vertebrate heart--a stretch-activated muscle sharing
features with insect flight muscle.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10559 
PMID: 22094701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):388-92. doi: 10.1038/nature10566.

East Antarctic rifting triggers uplift of the Gamburtsev Mountains.

Ferraccioli F(1), Finn CA, Jordan TA, Bell RE, Anderson LM, Damaske D.

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, High Cross, Madingley Road, Cambridge, CB3 0ET, UK. 
ffe@bas.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 17;479(7373):304-6.

The Gamburtsev Subglacial Mountains are the least understood tectonic feature on 
Earth, because they are completely hidden beneath the East Antarctic Ice Sheet.
Their high elevation and youthful Alpine topography, combined with their location
on the East Antarctic craton, creates a paradox that has puzzled researchers
since the mountains were discovered in 1958. The preservation of Alpine
topography in the Gamburtsevs may reflect extremely low long-term erosion rates
beneath the ice sheet, but the mountains' origin remains problematic. Here we
present the first comprehensive view of the crustal architecture and uplift
mechanisms for the Gamburtsevs, derived from radar, gravity and magnetic data.
The geophysical data define a 2,500-km-long rift system in East Antarctica
surrounding the Gamburtsevs, and a thick crustal root beneath the range. We
propose that the root formed during the Proterozoic assembly of interior East
Antarctica (possibly about 1 Gyr ago), was preserved as in some old orogens and
was rejuvenated during much later Permian (roughly 250 Myr ago) and Cretaceous
(roughly 100 Myr ago) rifting. Much like East Africa, the interior of East
Antarctica is a mosaic of Precambrian provinces affected by rifting processes.
Our models show that the combination of rift-flank uplift, root buoyancy and the 
isostatic response to fluvial and glacial erosion explains the high elevation and
relief of the Gamburtsevs. The evolution of the Gamburtsevs demonstrates that
rifting and preserved orogenic roots can produce broad regions of high topography
in continental interiors without significantly modifying the underlying
Precambrian lithosphere.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10566 
PMID: 22094700 


82. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):384-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10588.

Observed increase in local cooling effect of deforestation at higher latitudes.

Lee X(1), Goulden ML, Hollinger DY, Barr A, Black TA, Bohrer G, Bracho R, Drake
B, Goldstein A, Gu L, Katul G, Kolb T, Law BE, Margolis H, Meyers T, Monson R,
Munger W, Oren R, Paw U KT, Richardson AD, Schmid HP, Staebler R, Wofsy S, Zhao
L.

Author information: 
(1)School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA. xuhui.lee@yale.edu

Deforestation in mid- to high latitudes is hypothesized to have the potential to 
cool the Earth's surface by altering biophysical processes. In climate models of 
continental-scale land clearing, the cooling is triggered by increases in surface
albedo and is reinforced by a land albedo-sea ice feedback. This feedback is
crucial in the model predictions; without it other biophysical processes may
overwhelm the albedo effect to generate warming instead. Ongoing land-use
activities, such as land management for climate mitigation, are occurring at
local scales (hectares) presumably too small to generate the feedback, and it is 
not known whether the intrinsic biophysical mechanism on its own can change the
surface temperature in a consistent manner. Nor has the effect of deforestation
on climate been demonstrated over large areas from direct observations. Here we
show that surface air temperature is lower in open land than in nearby forested
land. The effect is 0.85 ± 0.44 K (mean ± one standard deviation) northwards of
45° N and 0.21 ± 0.53 K southwards. Below 35° N there is weak evidence that
deforestation leads to warming. Results are based on comparisons of temperature
at forested eddy covariance towers in the USA and Canada and, as a proxy for
small areas of cleared land, nearby surface weather stations. Night-time
temperature changes unrelated to changes in surface albedo are an important
contributor to the overall cooling effect. The observed latitudinal dependence is
consistent with theoretical expectation of changes in energy loss from convection
and radiation across latitudes in both the daytime and night-time phase of the
diurnal cycle, the latter of which remains uncertain in climate models.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10588 
PMID: 22094699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):380-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10593.

Atom-resolved imaging of ordered defect superstructures at individual grain
boundaries.

Wang Z(1), Saito M, McKenna KP, Gu L, Tsukimoto S, Shluger AL, Ikuhara Y.

Author information: 
(1)World Premier International Research Center, Advanced Institute for Materials 
Research, Tohoku University, 2-1-1 Katahira, Sendai 980-8577, Japan.
zcwang@wpi-aimr.tohoku.ac.jp

The ability to resolve spatially and identify chemically atoms in defects would
greatly advance our understanding of the correlation between structure and
property in materials. This is particularly important in polycrystalline
materials, in which the grain boundaries have profound implications for the
properties and applications of the final material. However, such atomic
resolution is still extremely difficult to achieve, partly because grain
boundaries are effective sinks for atomic defects and impurities, which may drive
structural transformation of grain boundaries and consequently modify material
properties. Regardless of the origin of these sinks, the interplay between
defects and grain boundaries complicates our efforts to pinpoint the exact sites 
and chemistries of the entities present in the defective regions, thereby
limiting our understanding of how specific defects mediate property changes. Here
we show that the combination of advanced electron microscopy, spectroscopy and
first-principles calculations can provide three-dimensional images of complex,
multicomponent grain boundaries with both atomic resolution and chemical
sensitivity. The high resolution of these techniques allows us to demonstrate
that even for magnesium oxide, which has a simple rock-salt structure, grain
boundaries can accommodate complex ordered defect superstructures that induce
significant electron trapping in the bandgap of the oxide. These results offer
insights into interactions between defects and grain boundaries in ceramics and
demonstrate that atomic-scale analysis of complex multicomponent structures in
materials is now becoming possible.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10593 
PMID: 22094698 


84. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10561.

Observation of the dynamical Casimir effect in a superconducting circuit.

Wilson CM(1), Johansson G, Pourkabirian A, Simoen M, Johansson JR, Duty T, Nori
F, Delsing P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microtechnology and Nanoscience, Chalmers University of
Technology, Göteborg 412 96, Sweden. chris.wilson@chalmers.se

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 17;479(7373):303-4.

One of the most surprising predictions of modern quantum theory is that the
vacuum of space is not empty. In fact, quantum theory predicts that it teems with
virtual particles flitting in and out of existence. Although initially a
curiosity, it was quickly realized that these vacuum fluctuations had measurable 
consequences--for instance, producing the Lamb shift of atomic spectra and
modifying the magnetic moment of the electron. This type of renormalization due
to vacuum fluctuations is now central to our understanding of nature. However,
these effects provide indirect evidence for the existence of vacuum fluctuations.
From early on, it was discussed whether it might be possible to more directly
observe the virtual particles that compose the quantum vacuum. Forty years ago,
it was suggested that a mirror undergoing relativistic motion could convert
virtual photons into directly observable real photons. The phenomenon, later
termed the dynamical Casimir effect, has not been demonstrated previously. Here
we observe the dynamical Casimir effect in a superconducting circuit consisting
of a coplanar transmission line with a tunable electrical length. The rate of
change of the electrical length can be made very fast (a substantial fraction of 
the speed of light) by modulating the inductance of a superconducting quantum
interference device at high frequencies (>10 gigahertz). In addition to observing
the creation of real photons, we detect two-mode squeezing in the emitted
radiation, which is a signature of the quantum character of the generation
process.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10561 
PMID: 22094697 


85. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):354-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10682.

Environmental effects of information and communications technologies.

Williams E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Golisano Institute of Sustainability, Rochester Institute of Technology,
Rochester, New York 14623, USA. exwgis@rit.edu

The digital revolution affects the environment on several levels. Most directly, 
information and communications technology (ICT) has environmental impacts through
the manufacturing, operation and disposal of devices and network equipment, but
it also provides ways to mitigate energy use, for example through smart buildings
and teleworking. At a broader system level, ICTs influence economic growth and
bring about technological and societal change. Managing the direct impacts of
ICTs is more complex than just producing efficient devices, owing to the
energetically expensive manufacturing process, and the increasing proliferation
of devices needs to be taken into account.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10682 
PMID: 22094696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):345-53. doi: 10.1038/nature10681.

Embracing the quantum limit in silicon computing.

Morton JJ(1), McCamey DR, Eriksson MA, Lyon SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PH, UK.
john.morton@sjc.ox.ac.uk

Quantum computers hold the promise of massive performance enhancements across a
range of applications, from cryptography and databases to revolutionary
scientific simulation tools. Such computers would make use of the same quantum
mechanical phenomena that pose limitations on the continued shrinking of
conventional information processing devices. Many of the key requirements for
quantum computing differ markedly from those of conventional computers. However, 
silicon, which plays a central part in conventional information processing, has
many properties that make it a superb platform around which to build a quantum
computer.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10681 
PMID: 22094695 


87. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):338-44. doi: 10.1038/nature10680.

A role for graphene in silicon-based semiconductor devices.

Kim K(1), Choi JY, Kim T, Cho SH, Chung HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology (SAIT), Samsung Electronics,
Yongin-Si, Gyeonggi-Do 446-712, South Korea. kn_kim@samsung.com

As silicon-based electronics approach the limit of improvements to performance
and capacity through dimensional scaling, attention in the semiconductor field
has turned to graphene, a single layer of carbon atoms arranged in a honeycomb
lattice. Its high mobility of charge carriers (electrons and holes) could lead to
its use in the next generation of high-performance devices. Graphene is unlikely 
to replace silicon completely, however, because of the poor on/off current ratio 
resulting from its zero bandgap. But it could be used to improve silicon-based
devices, in particular in high-speed electronics and optical modulators.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10680 
PMID: 22094694 


88. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):329-37. doi: 10.1038/nature10679.

Tunnel field-effect transistors as energy-efficient electronic switches.

Ionescu AM(1), Riel H.

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
adrian.ionescu@epfl.ch

Power dissipation is a fundamental problem for nanoelectronic circuits. Scaling
the supply voltage reduces the energy needed for switching, but the field-effect 
transistors (FETs) in today's integrated circuits require at least 60 mV of gate 
voltage to increase the current by one order of magnitude at room temperature.
Tunnel FETs avoid this limit by using quantum-mechanical band-to-band tunnelling,
rather than thermal injection, to inject charge carriers into the device channel.
Tunnel FETs based on ultrathin semiconducting films or nanowires could achieve a 
100-fold power reduction over complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS)
transistors, so integrating tunnel FETs with CMOS technology could improve
low-power integrated circuits.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10679 
PMID: 22094693 


89. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):324-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10678.

Academic and industry research progress in germanium nanodevices.

Pillarisetty R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Components Research, Technology and Manufacturing Group, Intel Corporation,
5200 Northeast Elam Young Parkway, Hillsboro, Oregon 97124, USA.
ravi.pillarisetty@intel.com

Silicon has enabled the rise of the semiconductor electronics industry, but it
was not the first material used in such devices. During the 1950s, just after the
birth of the transistor, solid-state devices were almost exclusively manufactured
from germanium. Today, one of the key ways to improve transistor performance is
to increase charge-carrier mobility within the device channel. Motivated by this,
the solid-state device research community is returning to investigating the
high-mobility material germanium. Germanium-based transistors have the potential 
to operate at high speeds with low power requirements and might therefore be used
in non-silicon-based semiconductor technology in the future.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10678 
PMID: 22094692 


90. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):317-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10677.

Nanometre-scale electronics with III-V compound semiconductors.

del Alamo JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microsystems Technology Laboratories, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. alamo@mit.edu

For 50 years the exponential rise in the power of electronics has been fuelled by
an increase in the density of silicon complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor
(CMOS) transistors and improvements to their logic performance. But silicon
transistor scaling is now reaching its limits, threatening to end the
microelectronics revolution. Attention is turning to a family of materials that
is well placed to address this problem: group III-V compound semiconductors. The 
outstanding electron transport properties of these materials might be central to 
the development of the first nanometre-scale logic transistors.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10677 
PMID: 22094691 


91. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7373):310-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10676.

Multigate transistors as the future of classical metal-oxide-semiconductor
field-effect transistors.

Ferain I(1), Colinge CA, Colinge JP.

Author information: 
(1)Tyndall National Institute, University College Cork, Lee Maltings, Dyke
Parade, Cork, Ireland.

For more than four decades, transistors have been shrinking exponentially in
size, and therefore the number of transistors in a single microelectronic chip
has been increasing exponentially. Such an increase in packing density was made
possible by continually shrinking the metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect
transistor (MOSFET). In the current generation of transistors, the transistor
dimensions have shrunk to such an extent that the electrical characteristics of
the device can be markedly degraded, making it unlikely that the exponential
decrease in transistor size can continue. Recently, however, a new generation of 
MOSFETs, called multigate transistors, has emerged, and this multigate geometry
will allow the continuing enhancement of computer performance into the next
decade.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10676 
PMID: 22094690 


92. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;480(7378):570-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10622.

Intermediates in the transformation of phosphonates to phosphate by bacteria.

Kamat SS(1), Williams HJ, Raushel FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, PO Box 30012, Texas A&M University, College Station, 
Texas 77843, USA.

Phosphorus is an essential element for all known forms of life. In living
systems, phosphorus is an integral component of nucleic acids, carbohydrates and 
phospholipids, where it is incorporated as a derivative of phosphate. However,
most Gram-negative bacteria have the capability to use phosphonates as a
nutritional source of phosphorus under conditions of phosphate starvation. In
these organisms, methylphosphonate is converted to phosphate and methane. In a
formal sense, this transformation is a hydrolytic cleavage of a carbon-phosphorus
(C-P) bond, but a general enzymatic mechanism for the activation and conversion
of alkylphosphonates to phosphate and an alkane has not been elucidated despite
much effort for more than two decades. The actual mechanism for C-P bond cleavage
is likely to be a radical-based transformation. In Escherichia coli, the
catalytic machinery for the C-P lyase reaction has been localized to the phn gene
cluster. This operon consists of the 14 genes phnC, phnD, …, phnP. Genetic and
biochemical experiments have demonstrated that the genes phnG, phnH, …, phnM
encode proteins that are essential for the conversion of phosphonates to
phosphate and that the proteins encoded by the other genes in the operon have
auxiliary functions. There are no functional annotations for any of the seven
proteins considered essential for C-P bond cleavage. Here we show that
methylphosphonate reacts with MgATP to form
α-D-ribose-1-methylphosphonate-5-triphosphate (RPnTP) and adenine. The
triphosphate moiety of RPnTP is hydrolysed to pyrophosphate and
α-D-ribose-1-methylphosphonate-5-phosphate (PRPn). The C-P bond of PRPn is
subsequently cleaved in a radical-based reaction producing
α-D-ribose-1,2-cyclic-phosphate-5-phosphate and methane in the presence of
S-adenosyl-L-methionine. Substantial quantities of phosphonates are produced
worldwide for industrial processes, detergents, herbicides and pharmaceuticals.
Our elucidation of the chemical steps for the biodegradation of alkylphosphonates
shows how these compounds can be metabolized and recycled to phosphate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10622 
PMCID: PMC3245791
PMID: 22089136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7374):502-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10608.

Active formation of 'chaos terrain' over shallow subsurface water on Europa.

Schmidt BE(1), Blankenship DD, Patterson GW, Schenk PM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Geophysics, John A. & Katherine G. Jackson School of
Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, J. J. Pickle Research Campus,
Building 196 (ROC), 10100 Burnet Road (R2200), Austin, Texas 78758-4445, USA.
britneys@ig.utexas.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):485.

Europa, the innermost icy satellite of Jupiter, has a tortured young surface and 
sustains a liquid water ocean below an ice shell of highly debated thickness.
Quasi-circular areas of ice disruption called chaos terrains are unique to
Europa, and both their formation and the ice-shell thickness depend on Europa's
thermal state. No model so far has been able to explain why features such as
Conamara Chaos stand above surrounding terrain and contain matrix domes.
Melt-through of a thin (few-kilometre) shell is thermodynamically improbable and 
cannot raise the ice. The buoyancy of material rising as either plumes of warm,
pure ice called diapirs or convective cells in a thick (>10 kilometres) shell is 
insufficient to produce the observed chaos heights, and no single plume can
create matrix domes. Here we report an analysis of archival data from Europa,
guided by processes observed within Earth's subglacial volcanoes and ice shelves.
The data suggest that chaos terrains form above liquid water lenses perched
within the ice shell as shallow as 3 kilometres. Our results suggest that
ice-water interactions and freeze-out give rise to the diverse morphologies and
topography of chaos terrains. The sunken topography of Thera Macula indicates
that Europa is actively resurfacing over a lens comparable in volume to the Great
Lakes in North America.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10608 
PMID: 22089135 


94. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;480(7378):516-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10650.

Additive threats from pathogens, climate and land-use change for global amphibian
diversity.

Hof C(1), Araújo MB, Jetz W, Rahbek C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate, Department of Biology,
University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 15, 2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
christian.hof@senckenberg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 22;480(7378):461-2.

Amphibian population declines far exceed those of other vertebrate groups, with
30% of all species listed as threatened by the International Union for
Conservation of Nature. The causes of these declines are a matter of continued
research, but probably include climate change, land-use change and spread of the 
pathogenic fungal disease chytridiomycosis. Here we assess the spatial
distribution and interactions of these primary threats in relation to the global 
distribution of amphibian species. We show that the greatest proportions of
species negatively affected by climate change are projected to be found in
Africa, parts of northern South America and the Andes. Regions with the highest
projected impact of land-use and climate change coincide, but there is little
spatial overlap with regions highly threatened by the fungal disease. Overall,
the areas harbouring the richest amphibian faunas are disproportionately more
affected by one or multiple threat factors than areas with low richness.
Amphibian declines are likely to accelerate in the twenty-first century, because 
multiple drivers of extinction could jeopardize their populations more than
previous, mono-causal, assessments have suggested.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10650 
PMID: 22089134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;479(7374):499-501. doi: 10.1038/nature10551.

The alignment of molecular cloud magnetic fields with the spiral arms in M33.

Li HB(1), Henning T.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute for Astronomy, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany. li@mpia.de

The formation of molecular clouds, which serve as stellar nurseries in galaxies, 
is poorly understood. A class of cloud formation models suggests that a
large-scale galactic magnetic field is irrelevant at the scale of individual
clouds, because the turbulence and rotation of a cloud may randomize the
orientation of its magnetic field. Alternatively, galactic fields could be strong
enough to impose their direction upon individual clouds, thereby regulating cloud
accumulation and fragmentation, and affecting the rate and efficiency of star
formation. Our location in the disk of the Galaxy makes an assessment of the
situation difficult. Here we report observations of the magnetic field
orientation of six giant molecular cloud complexes in the nearby, almost face-on,
galaxy M33. The fields are aligned with the spiral arms, suggesting that the
large-scale field in M33 anchors the clouds.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10551 
PMID: 22089133 


96. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;480(7378):520-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10625.

The Medicago genome provides insight into the evolution of rhizobial symbioses.

Young ND(1), Debellé F, Oldroyd GE, Geurts R, Cannon SB, Udvardi MK, Benedito VA,
Mayer KF, Gouzy J, Schoof H, Van de Peer Y, Proost S, Cook DR, Meyers BC,
Spannagl M, Cheung F, De Mita S, Krishnakumar V, Gundlach H, Zhou S, Mudge J,
Bharti AK, Murray JD, Naoumkina MA, Rosen B, Silverstein KA, Tang H, Rombauts S, 
Zhao PX, Zhou P, Barbe V, Bardou P, Bechner M, Bellec A, Berger A, Bergès H,
Bidwell S, Bisseling T, Choisne N, Couloux A, Denny R, Deshpande S, Dai X, Doyle 
JJ, Dudez AM, Farmer AD, Fouteau S, Franken C, Gibelin C, Gish J, Goldstein S,
González AJ, Green PJ, Hallab A, Hartog M, Hua A, Humphray SJ, Jeong DH, Jing Y, 
Jöcker A, Kenton SM, Kim DJ, Klee K, Lai H, Lang C, Lin S, Macmil SL, Magdelenat 
G, Matthews L, McCorrison J, Monaghan EL, Mun JH, Najar FZ, Nicholson C, Noirot
C, O'Bleness M, Paule CR, Poulain J, Prion F, Qin B, Qu C, Retzel EF, Riddle C,
Sallet E, Samain S, Samson N, Sanders I, Saurat O, Scarpelli C, Schiex T,
Segurens B, Severin AJ, Sherrier DJ, Shi R, Sims S, Singer SR, Sinharoy S, Sterck
L, Viollet A, Wang BB, Wang K, Wang M, Wang X, Warfsmann J, Weissenbach J, White 
DD, White JD, Wiley GB, Wincker P, Xing Y, Yang L, Yao Z, Ying F, Zhai J, Zhou L,
Zuber A, Dénarié J, Dixon RA, May GD, Schwartz DC, Rogers J, Quétier F, Town CD, 
Roe BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Pathology, University of Minnesota, St Paul, Minnesota
55108, USA. neviny@umn.edu

Legumes (Fabaceae or Leguminosae) are unique among cultivated plants for their
ability to carry out endosymbiotic nitrogen fixation with rhizobial bacteria, a
process that takes place in a specialized structure known as the nodule. Legumes 
belong to one of the two main groups of eurosids, the Fabidae, which includes
most species capable of endosymbiotic nitrogen fixation. Legumes comprise several
evolutionary lineages derived from a common ancestor 60 million years ago (Myr
ago). Papilionoids are the largest clade, dating nearly to the origin of legumes 
and containing most cultivated species. Medicago truncatula is a long-established
model for the study of legume biology. Here we describe the draft sequence of the
M. truncatula euchromatin based on a recently completed BAC assembly supplemented
with Illumina shotgun sequence, together capturing ∼94% of all M. truncatula
genes. A whole-genome duplication (WGD) approximately 58 Myr ago had a major role
in shaping the M. truncatula genome and thereby contributed to the evolution of
endosymbiotic nitrogen fixation. Subsequent to the WGD, the M. truncatula genome 
experienced higher levels of rearrangement than two other sequenced legumes,
Glycine max and Lotus japonicus. M. truncatula is a close relative of alfalfa
(Medicago sativa), a widely cultivated crop with limited genomics tools and
complex autotetraploid genetics. As such, the M. truncatula genome sequence
provides significant opportunities to expand alfalfa's genomic toolbox.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10625 
PMCID: PMC3272368
PMID: 22089132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 2011 Nov 16;480(7378):525-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10643.

Natural polymorphisms in C. elegans HECW-1 E3 ligase affect pathogen avoidance
behaviour.

Chang HC(1), Paek J, Kim DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Heritable variation in behavioural traits generally has a complex genetic basis, 
and thus naturally occurring polymorphisms that influence behaviour have been
defined only in rare instances. The isolation of wild strains of Caenorhabditis
elegans has facilitated the study of natural genetic variation in this species
and provided insights into its diverse microbial ecology. C. elegans responds to 
bacterial infection with conserved innate immune responses and, although lacking 
the immunological memory of vertebrate adaptive immunity, shows an aversive
learning response to pathogenic bacteria. Here, we report the molecular
characterization of naturally occurring coding polymorphisms in a C. elegans gene
encoding a conserved HECT domain-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase, HECW-1. We show 
that two distinct polymorphisms in neighbouring residues of HECW-1 each affect C.
elegans behavioural avoidance of a lawn of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
Neuron-specific rescue and ablation experiments and genetic interaction analysis 
indicate that HECW-1 functions in a pair of sensory neurons to inhibit P.
aeruginosa lawn avoidance behaviour through inhibition of the neuropeptide
receptor NPR-1 (ref. 10), which we have previously shown promotes P. aeruginosa
lawn avoidance behaviour. Our data establish a molecular basis for natural
variation in a C. elegans behaviour that may undergo adaptive changes in response
to microbial pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10643 
PMCID: PMC3245782
PMID: 22089131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 2011 Nov 13;479(7374):493-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10633.

Neuronal filtering of multiplexed odour representations.

Blumhagen F(1), Zhu P, Shum J, Schärer YP, Yaksi E, Deisseroth K, Friedrich RW.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66, 4058
Basel, Switzerland.

Neuronal activity patterns contain information in their temporal structure,
indicating that information transfer between neurons may be optimized by temporal
filtering. In the zebrafish olfactory bulb, subsets of output neurons (mitral
cells) engage in synchronized oscillations during odour responses, but
information about odour identity is contained mostly in non-oscillatory firing
rate patterns. Using optogenetic manipulations and odour stimulation, we found
that firing rate responses of neurons in the posterior zone of the dorsal
telencephalon (Dp), a target area homologous to olfactory cortex, were largely
insensitive to oscillatory synchrony of mitral cells because passive membrane
properties and synaptic currents act as low-pass filters. Nevertheless, synchrony
influenced spike timing. Moreover, Dp neurons responded primarily during the
decorrelated steady state of mitral cell activity patterns. Temporal filtering
therefore tunes Dp neurons to components of mitral cell activity patterns that
are particularly informative about precise odour identity. These results
demonstrate how temporal filtering can extract specific information from
multiplexed neuronal codes.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10633 
PMID: 22080956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 2011 Nov 13;480(7377):396-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10618.

Structure of full-length Drosophila cryptochrome.

Zoltowski BD(1), Vaidya AT, Top D, Widom J, Young MW, Crane BR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Apr 11;496(7444):252.

The cryptochrome/photolyase (CRY/PL) family of photoreceptors mediates adaptive
responses to ultraviolet and blue light exposure in all kingdoms of life. Whereas
PLs function predominantly in DNA repair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) 
and 6-4 photolesions caused by ultraviolet radiation, CRYs transduce signals
important for growth, development, magnetosensitivity and circadian clocks.
Despite these diverse functions, PLs/CRYs preserve a common structural fold, a
dependence on flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) and an internal photoactivation
mechanism. However, members of the CRY/PL family differ in the substrates
recognized (protein or DNA), photochemical reactions catalysed and involvement of
an antenna cofactor. It is largely unknown how the animal CRYs that regulate
circadian rhythms act on their substrates. CRYs contain a variable
carboxy-terminal tail that appends the conserved PL homology domain (PHD) and is 
important for function. Here, we report a 2.3-Å resolution crystal structure of
Drosophila CRY with an intact C terminus. The C-terminal helix docks in the
analogous groove that binds DNA substrates in PLs. Conserved Trp 536 juts into
the CRY catalytic centre to mimic PL recognition of DNA photolesions. The FAD
anionic semiquinone found in the crystals assumes a conformation to facilitate
restructuring of the tail helix. These results help reconcile the diverse
functions of the CRY/PL family by demonstrating how conserved protein
architecture and photochemistry can be elaborated into a range of light-driven
functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10618 
PMCID: PMC3240699
PMID: 22080955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 2011 Nov 13;479(7374):542-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10540.

Dendritic cells control lymphocyte entry to lymph nodes through high endothelial 
venules.

Moussion C(1), Girard JP.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Institut de Pharmacologie et de Biologie Structurale, 205 route de
Narbonne, F-31077 Toulouse, France.

While patrolling the body in search of foreign antigens, naive lymphocytes
continuously circulate from the blood, through the lymph nodes, into the
lymphatic vessels and back to the blood. This process, called lymphocyte
recirculation, provides the body with effective immune surveillance for foreign
invaders and for alterations to the body's own cells. However, the mechanisms
that regulate lymphocyte recirculation during homeostasis remain incompletely
characterized. Here we show that dendritic cells (DCs), which are well known for 
their role in antigen presentation to T lymphocytes, control the entry of naive
lymphocytes to lymph nodes by modulating the phenotype of high endothelial
venules (HEVs), which are blood vessels specialized in lymphocyte recruitment. We
found that in vivo depletion of CD11c(+) DCs in adult mice over a 1-week period
induces a reduction in the size and cellularity of the peripheral and mucosal
lymph nodes. In the absence of DCs, the mature adult HEV phenotype reverts to an 
immature neonatal phenotype, and HEV-mediated lymphocyte recruitment to lymph
nodes is inhibited. Co-culture experiments showed that the effect of DCs on HEV
endothelial cells is direct and requires lymphotoxin-β-receptor-dependent
signalling. DCs express lymphotoxin, and DC-derived lymphotoxin is important for 
lymphocyte homing to lymph nodes in vivo. Together, our results reveal a
previously unsuspected role for DCs in the regulation of lymphocyte recirculation
during immune surveillance.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10540 
PMID: 22080953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2011 Nov 13;480(7377):383-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10595.

Regulatory evolution through divergence of a phosphoswitch in the transcription
factor CEBPB.

Lynch VJ(1), May G, Wagner GP.

Author information: 
(1)Yale Systems Biology Institute and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
vincent.j.lynch@yale.edu

There is an emerging consensus that gene regulation evolves through changes in
cis-regulatory elements and transcription factors. Although it is clear how
nucleotide substitutions in cis-regulatory elements affect gene expression, it is
not clear how amino-acid substitutions in transcription factors influence gene
regulation. Here we show that amino-acid changes in the transcription factor
CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-β (CEBPB, also known as C/EBP-β) in the
stem-lineage of placental mammals changed the way it responds to cyclic
AMP/protein kinase A (cAMP/PKA) signalling. By functionally analysing resurrected
ancestral proteins, we identify three amino-acid substitutions in an internal
regulatory domain of CEBPB that are responsible for the novel function. These
amino-acid substitutions reorganize the location of key phosphorylation sites,
introducing a new site and removing two ancestral sites, reversing the response
of CEBPB to GSK-3β-mediated phosphorylation from repression to activation. We
conclude that changing the response of transcription factors to signalling
pathways can be an important mechanism of gene regulatory evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10595 
PMID: 22080951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2011 Nov 13;480(7375):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature10630.

A novel recurrent mutation in MITF predisposes to familial and sporadic melanoma.

Yokoyama S(1), Woods SL, Boyle GM, Aoude LG, MacGregor S, Zismann V, Gartside M, 
Cust AE, Haq R, Harland M, Taylor JC, Duffy DL, Holohan K, Dutton-Regester K,
Palmer JM, Bonazzi V, Stark MS, Symmons J, Law MH, Schmidt C, Lanagan C, O'Connor
L, Holland EA, Schmid H, Maskiell JA, Jetann J, Ferguson M, Jenkins MA, Kefford
RF, Giles GG, Armstrong BK, Aitken JF, Hopper JL, Whiteman DC, Pharoah PD, Easton
DF, Dunning AM, Newton-Bishop JA, Montgomery GW, Martin NG, Mann GJ, Bishop DT,
Tsao H, Trent JM, Fisher DE, Hayward NK, Brown KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Cutaneous Biology Research Center, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2011 Dec;24(6):1079-80.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Jan;12(1):1.

So far, two genes associated with familial melanoma have been identified,
accounting for a minority of genetic risk in families. Mutations in CDKN2A
account for approximately 40% of familial cases, and predisposing mutations in
CDK4 have been reported in a very small number of melanoma kindreds. Here we
report the whole-genome sequencing of probands from several melanoma families,
which we performed in order to identify other genes associated with familial
melanoma. We identify one individual carrying a novel germline variant (coding
DNA sequence c.G1075A; protein sequence p.E318K; rs149617956) in the
melanoma-lineage-specific oncogene microphthalmia-associated transcription factor
(MITF). Although the variant co-segregated with melanoma in some but not all
cases in the family, linkage analysis of 31 families subsequently identified to
carry the variant generated a log of odds (lod) score of 2.7 under a dominant
model, indicating E318K as a possible intermediate risk variant. Consistent with 
this, the E318K variant was significantly associated with melanoma in a large
Australian case-control sample. Likewise, it was similarly associated in an
independent case-control sample from the United Kingdom. In the Australian
sample, the variant allele was significantly over-represented in cases with a
family history of melanoma, multiple primary melanomas, or both. The variant
allele was also associated with increased naevus count and non-blue eye colour.
Functional analysis of E318K showed that MITF encoded by the variant allele had
impaired sumoylation and differentially regulated several MITF targets. These
data indicate that MITF is a melanoma-predisposition gene and highlight the
utility of whole-genome sequencing to identify novel rare variants associated
with disease susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10630 
PMCID: PMC3266855
PMID: 22080950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;480(7375):57-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10637.

Self-formation of functional adenohypophysis in three-dimensional culture.

Suga H(1), Kadoshima T, Minaguchi M, Ohgushi M, Soen M, Nakano T, Takata N,
Wataya T, Muguruma K, Miyoshi H, Yonemura S, Oiso Y, Sasai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Neurogenesis and Organogenesis Group, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology, 
Kobe 650-0047, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):44-6.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Dec 2;9(6):490-1.

The adenohypophysis (anterior pituitary) is a major centre for systemic hormones.
At present, no efficient stem-cell culture for its generation is available,
partly because of insufficient knowledge about how the pituitary primordium
(Rathke's pouch) is induced in the embryonic head ectoderm. Here we report
efficient self-formation of three-dimensional adenohypophysis tissues in an
aggregate culture of mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. ES cells were stimulated to
differentiate into non-neural head ectoderm and hypothalamic neuroectoderm in
adjacent layers within the aggregate, and treated with hedgehog signalling.
Self-organization of Rathke's-pouch-like three-dimensional structures occurred at
the interface of these two epithelia, as seen in vivo, and various endocrine
cells including corticotrophs and somatotrophs were subsequently produced. The
corticotrophs efficiently secreted adrenocorticotropic hormone in response to
corticotrophin releasing hormone and, when grafted in vivo, these cells rescued
the systemic glucocorticoid level in hypopituitary mice. Thus, functional
anterior pituitary tissue self-forms in ES cell culture, recapitulating local
tissue interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10637 
PMID: 22080957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;480(7376):209-14. doi: 10.1038/nature10649.

The circadian molecular clock creates epidermal stem cell heterogeneity.

Janich P(1), Pascual G, Merlos-Suárez A, Batlle E, Ripperger J, Albrecht U, Cheng
HY, Obrietan K, Di Croce L, Benitah SA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genomic Regulation and UPF, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):185-7.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Jan;13(1):4-5.

Murine epidermal stem cells undergo alternate cycles of dormancy and activation, 
fuelling tissue renewal. However, only a subset of stem cells becomes active
during each round of morphogenesis, indicating that stem cells coexist in
heterogeneous responsive states. Using a circadian-clock reporter-mouse model,
here we show that the dormant hair-follicle stem cell niche contains coexisting
populations of cells at opposite phases of the clock, which are differentially
predisposed to respond to homeostatic cues. The core clock protein Bmal1
modulates the expression of stem cell regulatory genes in an oscillatory manner, 
to create populations that are either predisposed, or less prone, to activation. 
Disrupting this clock equilibrium, through deletion of Bmal1 (also known as
Arntl) or Per1/2, resulted in a progressive accumulation or depletion of dormant 
stem cells, respectively. Stem cell arrhythmia also led to premature epidermal
ageing, and a reduction in the development of squamous tumours. Our results
indicate that the circadian clock fine-tunes the temporal behaviour of epidermal 
stem cells, and that its perturbation affects homeostasis and the predisposition 
to tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10649 
PMID: 22080954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;480(7378):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10606.

Basigin is a receptor essential for erythrocyte invasion by Plasmodium
falciparum.

Crosnier C(1), Bustamante LY, Bartholdson SJ, Bei AK, Theron M, Uchikawa M, Mboup
S, Ndir O, Kwiatkowski DP, Duraisingh MT, Rayner JC, Wright GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Surface Signalling Laboratory, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, 
Cambridge CB10 1HH, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Jan;10(1):3.

Erythrocyte invasion by Plasmodium falciparum is central to the pathogenesis of
malaria. Invasion requires a series of extracellular recognition events between
erythrocyte receptors and ligands on the merozoite, the invasive form of the
parasite. None of the few known receptor-ligand interactions involved are
required in all parasite strains, indicating that the parasite is able to access 
multiple redundant invasion pathways. Here, we show that we have identified a
receptor-ligand pair that is essential for erythrocyte invasion in all tested P. 
falciparum strains. By systematically screening a library of erythrocyte
proteins, we have found that the Ok blood group antigen, basigin, is a receptor
for PfRh5, a parasite ligand that is essential for blood stage growth.
Erythrocyte invasion was potently inhibited by soluble basigin or by basigin
knockdown, and invasion could be completely blocked using low concentrations of
anti-basigin antibodies; importantly, these effects were observed across all
laboratory-adapted and field strains tested. Furthermore, Ok(a-) erythrocytes,
which express a basigin variant that has a weaker binding affinity for PfRh5, had
reduced invasion efficiencies. Our discovery of a cross-strain dependency on a
single extracellular receptor-ligand pair for erythrocyte invasion by P.
falciparum provides a focus for new anti-malarial therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10606 
PMCID: PMC3245779
PMID: 22080952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;480(7375):91-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10629.

Energetics and the evolution of human brain size.

Navarrete A(1), van Schaik CP, Isler K.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. a.navarrete@aim.uzh.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):43-4.

The human brain stands out among mammals by being unusually large. The
expensive-tissue hypothesis explains its evolution by proposing a trade-off
between the size of the brain and that of the digestive tract, which is smaller
than expected for a primate of our body size. Although this hypothesis is widely 
accepted, empirical support so far has been equivocal. Here we test it in a
sample of 100 mammalian species, including 23 primates, by analysing brain size
and organ mass data. We found that, controlling for fat-free body mass, brain
size is not negatively correlated with the mass of the digestive tract or any
other expensive organ, thus refuting the expensive-tissue hypothesis.
Nonetheless, consistent with the existence of energy trade-offs with brain size, 
we find that the size of brains and adipose depots are negatively correlated in
mammals, indicating that encephalization and fat storage are compensatory
strategies to buffer against starvation. However, these two strategies can be
combined if fat storage does not unduly hamper locomotor efficiency. We propose
that human encephalization was made possible by a combination of stabilization of
energy inputs and a redirection of energy from locomotion, growth and
reproduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10629 
PMID: 22080949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7373):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10529.

Two populations of X-ray pulsars produced by two types of supernova.

Knigge C(1), Coe MJ, Podsiadlowski P.

Author information: 
(1)University of Southampton, School of Physics and Astronomy, Southampton SO17
1BJ, UK. c.knigge@soton.ac.uk

Two types of supernova are thought to produce the overwhelming majority of
neutron stars in the Universe. The first type, iron-core-collapse supernovae,
occurs when a high-mass star develops a degenerate iron core that exceeds the
Chandrasekhar limit. The second type, electron-capture supernovae, is associated 
with the collapse of a lower-mass oxygen-neon-magnesium core as it loses pressure
support owing to the sudden capture of electrons by neon and/or magnesium nuclei.
It has hitherto been impossible to identify the two distinct families of neutron 
stars produced in these formation channels. Here we report that a large,
well-known class of neutron-star-hosting X-ray pulsars is actually composed of
two distinct subpopulations with different characteristic spin periods, orbital
periods and orbital eccentricities. This class, the Be/X-ray binaries, contains
neutron stars that accrete material from a more massive companion star. The two
subpopulations are most probably associated with the two distinct types of
neutron-star-forming supernova, with electron-capture supernovae preferentially
producing systems with short spin periods, short orbital periods and low
eccentricities. Intriguingly, the split between the two subpopulations is
clearest in the distribution of the logarithm of spin period, a result that had
not been predicted and which still remains to be explained.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10529 
PMID: 22080948 


108. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7374):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature10599.

Senescence surveillance of pre-malignant hepatocytes limits liver cancer
development.

Kang TW(1), Yevsa T, Woller N, Hoenicke L, Wuestefeld T, Dauch D, Hohmeyer A,
Gereke M, Rudalska R, Potapova A, Iken M, Vucur M, Weiss S, Heikenwalder M, Khan 
S, Gil J, Bruder D, Manns M, Schirmacher P, Tacke F, Ott M, Luedde T, Longerich
T, Kubicka S, Zender L.

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Inhoffenstrasse 7, 38124
Braunschweig, Germany.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2012 Jul;56(1):387-9.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Jan;12(1):6.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):481-2.

Upon the aberrant activation of oncogenes, normal cells can enter the cellular
senescence program, a state of stable cell-cycle arrest, which represents an
important barrier against tumour development in vivo. Senescent cells communicate
with their environment by secreting various cytokines and growth factors, and it 
was reported that this 'secretory phenotype' can have pro- as well as
anti-tumorigenic effects. Here we show that oncogene-induced senescence occurs in
otherwise normal murine hepatocytes in vivo. Pre-malignant senescent hepatocytes 
secrete chemo- and cytokines and are subject to immune-mediated clearance
(designated as 'senescence surveillance'), which depends on an intact CD4(+)
T-cell-mediated adaptive immune response. Impaired immune surveillance of
pre-malignant senescent hepatocytes results in the development of murine
hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs), thus showing that senescence surveillance is
important for tumour suppression in vivo. In accordance with these observations, 
ras-specific Th1 lymphocytes could be detected in mice, in which oncogene-induced
senescence had been triggered by hepatic expression of Nras(G12V). We also found 
that CD4(+) T cells require monocytes/macrophages to execute the clearance of
senescent hepatocytes. Our study indicates that senescence surveillance
represents an important extrinsic component of the senescence anti-tumour
barrier, and illustrates how the cellular senescence program is involved in
tumour immune surveillance by mounting specific immune responses against antigens
expressed in pre-malignant senescent cells.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10599 
PMID: 22080947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7372):E1-2; author reply E2-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10613.

Antarctic accumulation seasonality.

Sime LC(1), Wolff EW.

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, Cambridge CB3 0ET, UK. lsim@bas.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):91-4.

The resemblance of the orbitally filtered isotope signal from the past 340 kyr in
Antarctic ice cores to Northern Hemisphere summer insolation intensity has been
used to suggest that the northern hemisphere may drive orbital-scale global
climate changes. A recent Letter by Laepple et al. suggests that, contrary to
this interpretation, this semblance may instead be explained by weighting the
orbitally controlled Antarctic seasonal insolation cycle with a static
(present-day) estimate of the seasonal cycle of accumulation. We suggest,
however, that both time variability in accumulation seasonality and alternative
stable seasonality can markedly alter the weighted insolation signal. This
indicates that, if the last 340 kyr of Antarctic accumulation has not always
looked like the estimate of precipitation and accumulation seasonality made by
Laepple et al., this particular accumulation weighting explanation of the
Antarctic orbital-scale isotopic signal might not be robust.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10613 
PMID: 22071770 


110. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7372):219-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10601.

Stepwise evolution of stable sociality in primates.

Shultz S(1), Opie C, Atkinson QD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive and Evolutionary Anthropology, 64 Banbury Road,
University of Oxford, Oxford OX2 6PN, UK. susanne.shultz@anthro.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):182-3.

Although much attention has been focused on explaining and describing the
diversity of social grouping patterns among primates, less effort has been
devoted to understanding the evolutionary history of social living. This is
partly because social behaviours do not fossilize, making it difficult to infer
changes over evolutionary time. However, primate social behaviour shows strong
evidence for phylogenetic inertia, permitting the use of Bayesian comparative
methods to infer changes in social behaviour through time, thereby allowing us to
evaluate alternative models of social evolution. Here we present a model of
primate social evolution, whereby sociality progresses from solitary foraging
individuals directly to large multi-male/multi-female aggregations (approximately
52 million years (Myr) ago), with pair-living (approximately 16 Myr ago) or
single-male harem systems (approximately 16 Myr ago) derivative from this second 
stage. This model fits the data significantly better than the two widely accepted
alternatives (an unstructured model implied by the socioecological hypothesis or 
a model that allows linear stepwise changes in social complexity through time).
We also find strong support for the co-evolution of social living with a change
from nocturnal to diurnal activity patterns, but not with sex-biased dispersal.
This supports suggestions that social living may arise because of increased
predation risk associated with diurnal activity. Sociality based on loose
aggregation is followed by a second shift to stable or bonded groups. This
structuring facilitates the evolution of cooperative behaviours and may provide
the scaffold for other distinctive anthropoid traits including coalition
formation, cooperative resource defence and large brains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10601 
PMID: 22071768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7372):215-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10565.

An impact-driven dynamo for the early Moon.

Le Bars M(1), Wieczorek MA, Karatekin O, Cébron D, Laneuville M.

Author information: 
(1)IRPHE, CNRS and Aix-Marseille Université, 49 rue F. Joliot Curie, BP 146,
13384 Marseille Cedex 13, France. lebars@irphe.univ-mrs.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):183-4.

The origin of lunar magnetic anomalies remains unresolved after their discovery
more than four decades ago. A commonly invoked hypothesis is that the Moon might 
once have possessed a thermally driven core dynamo, but this theory is
problematical given the small size of the core and the required surface magnetic 
field strengths. An alternative hypothesis is that impact events might have
amplified ambient fields near the antipodes of the largest basins, but many
magnetic anomalies exist that are not associated with basin antipodes. Here we
propose a new model for magnetic field generation, in which dynamo action comes
from impact-induced changes in the Moon's rotation rate. Basin-forming impact
events are energetic enough to have unlocked the Moon from synchronous rotation, 
and we demonstrate that the subsequent large-scale fluid flows in the core,
excited by the tidal distortion of the core-mantle boundary, could have powered a
lunar dynamo. Predicted surface magnetic field strengths are on the order of
several microteslas, consistent with palaeomagnetic measurements, and the
duration of these fields is sufficient to explain the central magnetic anomalies 
associated with several large impact basins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10565 
PMID: 22071767 


112. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7372):212-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10564.

A long-lived lunar dynamo driven by continuous mechanical stirring.

Dwyer CA(1), Stevenson DJ, Nimmo F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California Santa
Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA. cadwyer@ucsc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):183-4.

Lunar rocks contain a record of an ancient magnetic field that seems to have
persisted for more than 400 million years and which has been attributed to a
lunar dynamo. Models of conventional dynamos driven by thermal or compositional
convection have had difficulty reproducing the existence and apparently long
duration of the lunar dynamo. Here we investigate an alternative mechanism of
dynamo generation: continuous mechanical stirring arising from the differential
motion, due to Earth-driven precession of the lunar spin axis, between the solid 
silicate mantle and the liquid core beneath. We show that the fluid motions and
the power required to drive a dynamo operating continuously for more than one
billion years and generating a magnetic field that had an intensity of more than 
one microtesla 4.2 billion years ago are readily obtained by mechanical stirring.
The magnetic field is predicted to decrease with time and to shut off naturally
when the Moon recedes far enough from Earth that the dissipated power is
insufficient to drive a dynamo; in our nominal model, this occurred at about 48
Earth radii (2.7 billion years ago). Thus, lunar palaeomagnetic measurements may 
be able to constrain the poorly known early orbital evolution of the Moon. This
mechanism may also be applicable to dynamos in other bodies, such as large
asteroids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10564 
PMID: 22071766 


113. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7372):208-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10587.

Electrically driven directional motion of a four-wheeled molecule on a metal
surface.

Kudernac T(1), Ruangsupapichat N, Parschau M, Maciá B, Katsonis N, Harutyunyan
SR, Ernst KH, Feringa BL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Systems Chemistry, Stratingh Institute for Chemistry, University of
Groningen, Nijenborgh 4, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):187-8.

Propelling single molecules in a controlled manner along an unmodified surface
remains extremely challenging because it requires molecules that can use light,
chemical or electrical energy to modulate their interaction with the surface in a
way that generates motion. Nature's motor proteins have mastered the art of
converting conformational changes into directed motion, and have inspired the
design of artificial systems such as DNA walkers and light- and redox-driven
molecular motors. But although controlled movement of single molecules along a
surface has been reported, the molecules in these examples act as passive
elements that either diffuse along a preferential direction with equal
probability for forward and backward movement or are dragged by an STM tip. Here 
we present a molecule with four functional units--our previously reported rotary 
motors--that undergo continuous and defined conformational changes upon
sequential electronic and vibrational excitation. Scanning tunnelling microscopy 
confirms that activation of the conformational changes of the rotors through
inelastic electron tunnelling propels the molecule unidirectionally across a
Cu(111) surface. The system can be adapted to follow either linear or random
surface trajectories or to remain stationary, by tuning the chirality of the
individual motor units. Our design provides a starting point for the exploration 
of more sophisticated molecular mechanical systems with directionally controlled 
motion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10587 
PMID: 22071765 


114. Nature. 2011 Nov 9;479(7372):203-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10569.

Two types of luminescence blinking revealed by spectroelectrochemistry of single 
quantum dots.

Galland C(1), Ghosh Y, Steinbrück A, Sykora M, Hollingsworth JA, Klimov VI, Htoon
H.

Author information: 
(1)Chemistry Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico
87545, USA.

Photoluminescence blinking--random switching between states of high (ON) and low 
(OFF) emissivities--is a universal property of molecular emitters found in dyes, 
polymers, biological molecules and artificial nanostructures such as nanocrystal 
quantum dots, carbon nanotubes and nanowires. For the past 15 years, colloidal
nanocrystals have been used as a model system to study this phenomenon. The
occurrence of OFF periods in nanocrystal emission has been commonly attributed to
the presence of an additional charge, which leads to photoluminescence quenching 
by non-radiative recombination (the Auger mechanism). However, this 'charging'
model was recently challenged in several reports. Here we report time-resolved
photoluminescence studies of individual nanocrystal quantum dots performed while 
electrochemically controlling the degree of their charging, with the goal of
clarifying the role of charging in blinking. We find that two distinct types of
blinking are possible: conventional (A-type) blinking due to charging and
discharging of the nanocrystal core, in which lower photoluminescence intensities
correlate with shorter photoluminescence lifetimes; and a second sort (B-type),
in which large changes in the emission intensity are not accompanied by
significant changes in emission dynamics. We attribute B-type blinking to charge 
fluctuations in the electron-accepting surface sites. When unoccupied, these
sites intercept 'hot' electrons before they relax into emitting core states. Both
blinking mechanisms can be electrochemically controlled and completely suppressed
by application of an appropriate potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10569 
PMCID: PMC3390028
PMID: 22071764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Nature. 2011 Nov 6;480(7377):379-82. doi: 10.1038/nature10623.

HIV-1 restriction factor SAMHD1 is a deoxynucleoside triphosphate
triphosphohydrolase.

Goldstone DC(1), Ennis-Adeniran V, Hedden JJ, Groom HC, Rice GI, Christodoulou E,
Walker PA, Kelly G, Haire LF, Yap MW, de Carvalho LP, Stoye JP, Crow YJ, Taylor
IA, Webb M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Structure, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, 
London NW7 1AA, UK.

SAMHD1, an analogue of the murine interferon (IFN)-γ-induced gene Mg11 (ref. 1), 
has recently been identified as a human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1)
restriction factor that blocks early-stage virus replication in dendritic and
other myeloid cells and is the target of the lentiviral protein Vpx, which can
relieve HIV-1 restriction. SAMHD1 is also associated with Aicardi-Goutières
syndrome (AGS), an inflammatory encephalopathy characterized by chronic
cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytosis and elevated levels of the antiviral cytokine
IFN-α. The pathology associated with AGS resembles congenital viral infection,
such as transplacentally acquired HIV. Here we show that human SAMHD1 is a potent
dGTP-stimulated triphosphohydrolase that converts deoxynucleoside triphosphates
to the constituent deoxynucleoside and inorganic triphosphate. The crystal
structure of the catalytic core of SAMHD1 reveals that the protein is dimeric and
indicates a molecular basis for dGTP stimulation of catalytic activity against
dNTPs. We propose that SAMHD1, which is highly expressed in dendritic cells,
restricts HIV-1 replication by hydrolysing the majority of cellular dNTPs, thus
inhibiting reverse transcription and viral complementary DNA (cDNA) synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10623 
PMID: 22056990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 2011 Nov 6;480(7378):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature10648.

Dopamine neurons derived from human ES cells efficiently engraft in animal models
of Parkinson's disease.

Kriks S(1), Shim JW, Piao J, Ganat YM, Wakeman DR, Xie Z, Carrillo-Reid L,
Auyeung G, Antonacci C, Buch A, Yang L, Beal MF, Surmeier DJ, Kordower JH, Tabar 
V, Studer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Stem Cell Biology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275
York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Jan;13(1):2.
    J Neurol. 2012 Jun;259(6):1257-9.
    Mov Disord. 2012 Jun;27(7):814.

Human pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are a promising source of cells for
applications in regenerative medicine. Directed differentiation of PSCs into
specialized cells such as spinal motoneurons or midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons
has been achieved. However, the effective use of PSCs for cell therapy has lagged
behind. Whereas mouse PSC-derived DA neurons have shown efficacy in models of
Parkinson's disease, DA neurons from human PSCs generally show poor in vivo
performance. There are also considerable safety concerns for PSCs related to
their potential for teratoma formation or neural overgrowth. Here we present a
novel floor-plate-based strategy for the derivation of human DA neurons that
efficiently engraft in vivo, suggesting that past failures were due to incomplete
specification rather than a specific vulnerability of the cells. Midbrain
floor-plate precursors are derived from PSCs 11 days after exposure to small
molecule activators of sonic hedgehog (SHH) and canonical WNT signalling.
Engraftable midbrain DA neurons are obtained by day 25 and can be maintained in
vitro for several months. Extensive molecular profiling, biochemical and
electrophysiological data define developmental progression and confirm identity
of PSC-derived midbrain DA neurons. In vivo survival and function is demonstrated
in Parkinson's disease models using three host species. Long-term engraftment in 
6-hydroxy-dopamine-lesioned mice and rats demonstrates robust survival of
midbrain DA neurons derived from human embryonic stem (ES) cells, complete
restoration of amphetamine-induced rotation behaviour and improvements in tests
of forelimb use and akinesia. Finally, scalability is demonstrated by
transplantation into parkinsonian monkeys. Excellent DA neuron survival, function
and lack of neural overgrowth in the three animal models indicate promise for the
development of cell-based therapies in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10648 
PMCID: PMC3245796
PMID: 22056989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 2011 Nov 6;480(7377):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10594.

Sustained axon regeneration induced by co-deletion of PTEN and SOCS3.

Sun F(1), Park KK, Belin S, Wang D, Lu T, Chen G, Zhang K, Yeung C, Feng G,
Yankner BA, He Z.

Author information: 
(1)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Children's Hospital, Department of Neurology, 
Harvard Medical School, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

A formidable challenge in neural repair in the adult central nervous system (CNS)
is the long distances that regenerating axons often need to travel in order to
reconnect with their targets. Thus, a sustained capacity for axon regeneration is
critical for achieving functional restoration. Although deletion of either
phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN), a negative regulator of mammalian target
of rapamycin (mTOR), or suppressor of cytokine signalling 3 (SOCS3), a negative
regulator of Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription
(JAK/STAT) pathway, in adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) individually promoted 
significant optic nerve regeneration, such regrowth tapered off around 2 weeks
after the crush injury. Here we show that, remarkably, simultaneous deletion of
both PTEN and SOCS3 enables robust and sustained axon regeneration. We further
show that PTEN and SOCS3 regulate two independent pathways that act
synergistically to promote enhanced axon regeneration. Gene expression analyses
suggest that double deletion not only results in the induction of many
growth-related genes, but also allows RGCs to maintain the expression of a
repertoire of genes at the physiological level after injury. Our results reveal
concurrent activation of mTOR and STAT3 pathways as key for sustaining
long-distance axon regeneration in adult CNS, a crucial step towards functional
recovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10594 
PMCID: PMC3240702
PMID: 22056987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 2011 Nov 6;480(7377):391-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10492.

Chromatin-associated RNA interference components contribute to transcriptional
regulation in Drosophila.

Cernilogar FM(1), Onorati MC, Kothe GO, Burroughs AM, Parsi KM, Breiling A, Lo
Sardo F, Saxena A, Miyoshi K, Siomi H, Siomi MC, Carninci P, Gilmour DS, Corona
DF, Orlando V.

Author information: 
(1)Dulbecco Telethon Institute, Epigenetics and Genome Reprogramming, IRCCS
Fondazione Santa Lucia, Via del Fosso di Fiorano 64, 00143 Rome, Italy.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Jan;13(1):2.

RNA interference (RNAi) pathways have evolved as important modulators of gene
expression that operate in the cytoplasm by degrading RNA target molecules
through the activity of short (21-30 nucleotide) RNAs. RNAi components have been 
reported to have a role in the nucleus, as they are involved in epigenetic
regulation and heterochromatin formation. However, although RNAi-mediated
post-transcriptional gene silencing is well documented, the mechanisms of
RNAi-mediated transcriptional gene silencing and, in particular, the role of RNAi
components in chromatin dynamics, especially in animal multicellular organisms,
are elusive. Here we show that the key RNAi components Dicer 2 (DCR2) and
Argonaute 2 (AGO2) associate with chromatin (with a strong preference for
euchromatic, transcriptionally active, loci) and interact with the core
transcription machinery. Notably, loss of function of DCR2 or AGO2 showed that
transcriptional defects are accompanied by the perturbation of RNA polymerase II 
positioning on promoters. Furthermore, after heat shock, both Dcr2 and Ago2 null 
mutations, as well as missense mutations that compromise the RNAi activity,
impaired the global dynamics of RNA polymerase II. Finally, the deep sequencing
of the AGO2-associated small RNAs (AGO2 RIP-seq) revealed that AGO2 is strongly
enriched in small RNAs that encompass the promoter regions and other regions of
heat-shock and other genetic loci on both the sense and antisense DNA strands,
but with a strong bias for the antisense strand, particularly after heat shock.
Taken together, our results show that DCR2 and AGO2 are globally associated with 
transcriptionally active loci and may have a pivotal role in shaping the
transcriptome by controlling the processivity of RNA polymerase II.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10492 
PMCID: PMC4082306
PMID: 22056986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2011 Nov 6;480(7377):368-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10576.

Metagenomic analysis of a permafrost microbial community reveals a rapid response
to thaw.

Mackelprang R(1), Waldrop MP, DeAngelis KM, David MM, Chavarria KL, Blazewicz SJ,
Rubin EM, Jansson JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, California State University at Northridge, Northridge, 
California 91330, USA.

Permafrost contains an estimated 1672 Pg carbon (C), an amount roughly equivalent
to the total currently contained within land plants and the atmosphere. This
reservoir of C is vulnerable to decomposition as rising global temperatures cause
the permafrost to thaw. During thaw, trapped organic matter may become more
accessible for microbial degradation and result in greenhouse gas emissions.
Despite recent advances in the use of molecular tools to study permafrost
microbial communities, their response to thaw remains unclear. Here we use deep
metagenomic sequencing to determine the impact of thaw on microbial phylogenetic 
and functional genes, and relate these data to measurements of methane emissions.
Metagenomics, the direct sequencing of DNA from the environment, allows the
examination of whole biochemical pathways and associated processes, as opposed to
individual pieces of the metabolic puzzle. Our metagenome analyses reveal that
during transition from a frozen to a thawed state there are rapid shifts in many 
microbial, phylogenetic and functional gene abundances and pathways. After one
week of incubation at 5 °C, permafrost metagenomes converge to be more similar to
each other than while they are frozen. We find that multiple genes involved in
cycling of C and nitrogen shift rapidly during thaw. We also construct the first 
draft genome from a complex soil metagenome, which corresponds to a novel
methanogen. Methane previously accumulated in permafrost is released during thaw 
and subsequently consumed by methanotrophic bacteria. Together these data point
towards the importance of rapid cycling of methane and nitrogen in thawing
permafrost.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10576 
PMID: 22056985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2011 Nov 3;479(7371):74-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10442.

CTCF-promoted RNA polymerase II pausing links DNA methylation to splicing.

Shukla S(1), Kavak E, Gregory M, Imashimizu M, Shutinoski B, Kashlev M,
Oberdoerffer P, Sandberg R, Oberdoerffer S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cancer Research, Mouse Cancer Genetics Program, National Cancer
Institute at Frederick, Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.

Alternative splicing of pre-messenger RNA is a key feature of transcriptome
expansion in eukaryotic cells, yet its regulation is poorly understood.
Spliceosome assembly occurs co-transcriptionally, raising the possibility that
DNA structure may directly influence alternative splicing. Supporting such an
association, recent reports have identified distinct histone methylation
patterns, elevated nucleosome occupancy and enriched DNA methylation at exons
relative to introns. Moreover, the rate of transcription elongation has been
linked to alternative splicing. Here we provide the first evidence that a
DNA-binding protein, CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF), can promote inclusion of weak
upstream exons by mediating local RNA polymerase II pausing both in a mammalian
model system for alternative splicing, CD45, and genome-wide. We further show
that CTCF binding to CD45 exon 5 is inhibited by DNA methylation, leading to
reciprocal effects on exon 5 inclusion. These findings provide a mechanistic
basis for developmental regulation of splicing outcome through heritable
epigenetic marks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10442 
PMID: 21964334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10583.

Grid cells without theta oscillations in the entorhinal cortex of bats.

Yartsev MM(1), Witter MP, Ulanovsky N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 3;479(7371):46-7.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):E1-2; discussion E2-3.

Grid cells provide a neural representation of space, by discharging when an
animal traverses through the vertices of a periodic hexagonal grid spanning the
environment. Although grid cells have been characterized in detail in rats, the
fundamental question of what neural dynamics give rise to the grid structure
remains unresolved. Two competing classes of models were proposed: network
models, based on attractor dynamics, and oscillatory interference models, which
propose that interference between somatic and dendritic theta-band oscillations
(4-10 Hz) in single neurons transforms a temporal oscillation into a spatially
periodic grid. So far, these models could not be dissociated experimentally,
because rodent grid cells always co-exist with continuous theta oscillations.
Here we used a novel animal model, the Egyptian fruit bat, to refute the proposed
causal link between grids and theta oscillations. On the basis of our previous
finding from bat hippocampus, of spatially tuned place cells in the absence of
continuous theta oscillations, we hypothesized that grid cells in bat medial
entorhinal cortex might also exist without theta oscillations. Indeed, we found
grid cells in bat medial entorhinal cortex that shared remarkable similarities to
rodent grid cells. Notably, the grids existed in the absence of continuous
theta-band oscillations, and with almost no theta modulation of grid-cell
spiking--both of which are essential prerequisites of the oscillatory
interference models. Our results provide a direct demonstration of grid cells in 
a non-rodent species. Furthermore, they strongly argue against a major class of
computational models of grid cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10583 
PMID: 22051680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature10591.

Highly specialized mammalian skulls from the Late Cretaceous of South America.

Rougier GW(1), Apesteguía S, Gaetano LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences and Neurobiology, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, Kentucky 40202, USA. grougier@louisville.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 3;479(7371):51-2.

Dryolestoids are an extinct mammalian group belonging to the lineage leading to
modern marsupials and placentals. Dryolestoids are known by teeth and jaws from
the Jurassic period of North America and Europe, but they thrived in South
America up to the end of the Mesozoic era and survived to the beginnings of the
Cenozoic. Isolated teeth and jaws from the latest Cretaceous of South America
provide mounting evidence that, at least in western Gondwana, dryolestoids
developed into strongly endemic groups by the Late Cretaceous. However, the lack 
of pre-Late Cretaceous dryolestoid remains made study of their origin and early
diversification intractable. Here we describe the first mammalian remains from
the early Late Cretaceous of South America, including two partial skulls and jaws
of a derived dryolestoid showing dental and cranial features unknown among any
other group of Mesozoic mammals, such as single-rooted molars preceded by
double-rooted premolars, combined with a very long muzzle, exceedingly long
canines and evidence of highly specialized masticatory musculature. On one hand, 
the new mammal shares derived features of dryolestoids with forms from the
Jurassic of Laurasia, whereas on the other hand, it is very specialized and
highlights the endemic, diverse dryolestoid fauna from the Cretaceous of South
America. Our specimens include only the second mammalian skull known for the
Cretaceous of Gondwana, bridging a previous 60-million-year gap in the fossil
record, and document the whole cranial morphology of a dryolestoid, revealing an 
unsuspected morphological and ecological diversity for non-tribosphenic mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10591 
PMID: 22051679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10552.

Arabian Sea tropical cyclones intensified by emissions of black carbon and other 
aerosols.

Evan AT(1), Kossin JP, Chung CE, Ramanathan V.

Author information: 
(1)University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, USA.
ate9c@virginia.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 3;479(7371):50-1.
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):E1-2; discussion E2-3.

Throughout the year, average sea surface temperatures in the Arabian Sea are warm
enough to support the development of tropical cyclones, but the atmospheric
monsoon circulation and associated strong vertical wind shear limits cyclone
development and intensification, only permitting a pre-monsoon and post-monsoon
period for cyclogenesis. Thus a recent increase in the intensity of tropical
cyclones over the northern Indian Ocean is thought to be related to the weakening
of the climatological vertical wind shear. At the same time, anthropogenic
emissions of aerosols have increased sixfold since the 1930s, leading to a
weakening of the southwesterly lower-level and easterly upper-level winds that
define the monsoonal circulation over the Arabian Sea. In principle, this
aerosol-driven circulation modification could affect tropical cyclone intensity
over the Arabian Sea, but so far no such linkage has been shown. Here we report
an increase in the intensity of pre-monsoon Arabian Sea tropical cyclones during 
the period 1979-2010, and show that this change in storm strength is a
consequence of a simultaneous upward trend in anthropogenic black carbon and
sulphate emissions. We use a combination of observational, reanalysis and model
data to demonstrate that the anomalous circulation, which is radiatively forced
by these anthropogenic aerosols, reduces the basin-wide vertical wind shear,
creating an environment more favourable for tropical cyclone intensification.
Because most Arabian Sea tropical cyclones make landfall, our results suggest an 
additional impact on human health from regional air pollution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10552 
PMID: 22051678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):88-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10563.

Synthesis of macrocyclic natural products by catalyst-controlled stereoselective 
ring-closing metathesis.

Yu M(1), Wang C, Kyle AF, Jakubec P, Dixon DJ, Schrock RR, Hoveyda AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Merkert Chemistry Center, Boston College, Chestnut
Hill, Massachusetts 02467, USA.

Many natural products contain a C = C double bond through which various other
derivatives can be prepared; the stereochemical identity of the alkene can be
critical to the biological activities of such molecules. Catalytic ring-closing
metathesis (RCM) is a widely used method for the synthesis of large unsaturated
rings; however, cyclizations often proceed without control of alkene
stereochemistry. This shortcoming is particularly costly when the cyclization
reaction is performed after a long sequence of other chemical transformations.
Here we outline a reliable, practical and general approach for the efficient and 
highly stereoselective synthesis of macrocyclic alkenes by catalytic RCM;
transformations deliver up to 97% of the Z isomer owing to control induced by a
tungsten-based alkylidene. Utility is demonstrated through the stereoselective
preparation of epothilone C (refs 3-5) and nakadomarin A (ref. 6), the previously
reported syntheses of which have been marred by late-stage, non-selective RCM.
The tungsten alkylidene can be manipulated in air, delivering the products in
useful yields with high stereoselectivity. As a result of efficient RCM and
re-incorporation of side products into the catalytic cycle with minimal alkene
isomerization, desired cyclizations proceed in preference to alternative
pathways, even under relatively high substrate concentration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10563 
PMCID: PMC3211109
PMID: 22051677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10562.

Room temperature coherent control of defect spin qubits in silicon carbide.

Koehl WF(1), Buckley BB, Heremans FJ, Calusine G, Awschalom DD.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Spintronics and Quantum Computation, University of California,
Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 3;479(7371):47-8.

Electronic spins in semiconductors have been used extensively to explore the
limits of external control over quantum mechanical phenomena. A long-standing
goal of this research has been to identify or develop robust quantum systems that
can be easily manipulated, for future use in advanced information and
communication technologies. Recently, a point defect in diamond known as the
nitrogen-vacancy centre has attracted a great deal of interest because it
possesses an atomic-scale electronic spin state that can be used as an
individually addressable, solid-state quantum bit (qubit), even at room
temperature. These exceptional quantum properties have motivated efforts to
identify similar defects in other semiconductors, as they may offer an expanded
range of functionality not available to the diamond nitrogen-vacancy centre.
Notably, several defects in silicon carbide (SiC) have been suggested as good
candidates for exploration, owing to a combination of computational predictions
and magnetic resonance data. Here we demonstrate that several defect spin states 
in the 4H polytype of SiC (4H-SiC) can be optically addressed and coherently
controlled in the time domain at temperatures ranging from 20 to 300 kelvin.
Using optical and microwave techniques similar to those used with diamond
nitrogen-vacancy qubits, we study the spin-1 ground state of each of four
inequivalent forms of the neutral carbon-silicon divacancy, as well as a pair of 
defect spin states of unidentified origin. These defects are optically active
near telecommunication wavelengths, and are found in a host material for which
there already exist industrial-scale crystal growth and advanced microfabrication
techniques. In addition, they possess desirable spin coherence properties that
are comparable to those of the diamond nitrogen-vacancy centre. This makes them
promising candidates for various photonic, spintronic and quantum information
applications that merge quantum degrees of freedom with classical electronic and 
optical technologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10562 
PMID: 22051676 


126. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):67-73. doi: 10.1038/nature10567.

Melanopsin signalling in mammalian iris and retina.

Xue T(1), Do MT, Riccio A, Jiang Z, Hsieh J, Wang HC, Merbs SL, Welsbie DS,
Yoshioka T, Weissgerber P, Stolz S, Flockerzi V, Freichel M, Simon MI, Clapham
DE, Yau KW.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. txue77@gmail.com

Non-mammalian vertebrates have an intrinsically photosensitive iris and thus a
local pupillary light reflex (PLR). In contrast, it is thought that the PLR in
mammals generally requires neuronal circuitry connecting the eye and the brain.
Here we report that an intrinsic component of the PLR is in fact widespread in
nocturnal and crepuscular mammals. In mouse, this intrinsic PLR requires the
visual pigment melanopsin; it also requires PLCβ4, a vertebrate homologue of the 
Drosophila NorpA phospholipase C which mediates rhabdomeric phototransduction.
The Plcb4(-/-) genotype, in addition to removing the intrinsic PLR, also
essentially eliminates the intrinsic light response of the M1 subtype of
melanopsin-expressing, intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells
(M1-ipRGCs), which are by far the most photosensitive ipRGC subtype and also have
the largest response to light. Ablating in mouse the expression of both TRPC6 and
TRPC7, members of the TRP channel superfamily, also essentially eliminated the
M1-ipRGC light response but the intrinsic PLR was not affected. Thus, melanopsin 
signalling exists in both iris and retina, involving a PLCβ4-mediated pathway
that nonetheless diverges in the two locations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10567 
PMCID: PMC3270891
PMID: 22051675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7371):53-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10582.

Subsurface water and clay mineral formation during the early history of Mars.

Ehlmann BL(1), Mustard JF, Murchie SL, Bibring JP, Meunier A, Fraeman AA,
Langevin Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institut d'Astrophysique Spatiale, Université de Paris-Sud XI, 91405 Orsay
Cedex, France. ehlmann@caltech.edu

Clay minerals, recently discovered to be widespread in Mars's Noachian terrains, 
indicate long-duration interaction between water and rock over 3.7 billion years 
ago. Analysis of how they formed should indicate what environmental conditions
prevailed on early Mars. If clays formed near the surface by weathering, as is
common on Earth, their presence would indicate past surface conditions warmer and
wetter than at present. However, available data instead indicate substantial
Martian clay formation by hydrothermal groundwater circulation and a Noachian
rock record dominated by evidence of subsurface waters. Cold, arid conditions
with only transient surface water may have characterized Mars's surface for over 
4 billion years, since the early-Noachian period, and the longest-duration
aqueous, potentially habitable environments may have been in the subsurface.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10582 
PMID: 22051674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7372):200-2. doi: 10.1038/nature10527.

Infrared diffuse interstellar bands in the Galactic Centre region.

Geballe TR(1), Najarro F, Figer DF, Schlegelmilch BW, de la Fuente D.

Author information: 
(1)Gemini Observatory, 670 N. A'ohoku Place, Hilo, Hawaii 96720, USA.
tgeballe@gemini.edu

The spectrum of any star viewed through a sufficient quantity of diffuse
interstellar material reveals a number of absorption features collectively called
'diffuse interstellar bands' (DIBs). The first DIBs were reported about 90  years
ago, and currently well over 500 are known. None of them has been convincingly
identified with any specific element or molecule, although recent studies suggest
that the DIB carriers are polyatomic molecules containing carbon. Most of the
DIBs currently known are at visible and very near-infrared wavelengths, with only
two previously known at wavelengths beyond one micrometre (10,000 ångströms), the
longer of which is at 1.318 micrometres (ref. 6). Here we report 13 diffuse
interstellar bands in the 1.5-1.8 micrometre interval on high-extinction
sightlines towards stars in the Galactic Centre. We argue that they originate
almost entirely in the Galactic Centre region, a considerably warmer and harsher 
environment than where DIBs have been observed previously. The relative strengths
of these DIBs towards the Galactic Centre and the Cygnus OB2 diffuse cloud are
consistent with their strengths scaling mainly with the extinction by diffuse
material.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10527 
PMID: 22048316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7372):194-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10568.

Structure and function of the AAA+ protein CbbX, a red-type Rubisco activase.

Mueller-Cajar O(1), Stotz M, Wendler P, Hartl FU, Bracher A, Hayer-Hartl M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Am 
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) catalyses the fixation 
of atmospheric CO(2) in photosynthesis, but tends to form inactive complexes with
its substrate ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP). In plants, Rubisco is reactivated
by the AAA(+) (ATPases associated with various cellular activities) protein
Rubisco activase (Rca), but no such protein is known for the Rubisco of red
algae. Here we identify the protein CbbX as an activase of red-type Rubisco. The 
3.0-Å crystal structure of unassembled CbbX from Rhodobacter sphaeroides revealed
an AAA(+) protein architecture. Electron microscopy and biochemical analysis
showed that ATP and RuBP must bind to convert CbbX into functionally active,
hexameric rings. The CbbX ATPase is strongly stimulated by RuBP and Rubisco.
Mutational analysis suggests that CbbX functions by transiently pulling the
carboxy-terminal peptide of the Rubisco large subunit into the hexamer pore,
resulting in the release of the inhibitory RuBP. Understanding Rubisco activation
may facilitate efforts to improve CO(2) uptake and biomass production by
photosynthetic organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10568 
PMID: 22048315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7374):521-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10484.

The earliest evidence for anatomically modern humans in northwestern Europe.

Higham T(1), Compton T, Stringer C, Jacobi R, Shapiro B, Trinkaus E, Chandler B, 
Gröning F, Collins C, Hillson S, O'Higgins P, FitzGerald C, Fagan M.

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit, Research Laboratory for Archaeology and
the History of Art, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK.
thomas.higham@rlaha.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):483-5.

The earliest anatomically modern humans in Europe are thought to have appeared
around 43,000-42,000 calendar years before present (43-42 kyr cal BP), by
association with Aurignacian sites and lithic assemblages assumed to have been
made by modern humans rather than by Neanderthals. However, the actual physical
evidence for modern humans is extremely rare, and direct dates reach no farther
back than about 41-39 kyr cal BP, leaving a gap. Here we show, using
stratigraphic, chronological and archaeological data, that a fragment of human
maxilla from the Kent's Cavern site, UK, dates to the earlier period. The maxilla
(KC4), which was excavated in 1927, was initially diagnosed as Upper Palaeolithic
modern human. In 1989, it was directly radiocarbon dated by accelerator mass
spectrometry to 36.4-34.7 kyr cal BP. Using a Bayesian analysis of new
ultrafiltered bone collagen dates in an ordered stratigraphic sequence at the
site, we show that this date is a considerable underestimate. Instead, KC4 dates 
to 44.2-41.5 kyr cal BP. This makes it older than any other equivalently dated
modern human specimen and directly contemporary with the latest European
Neanderthals, thus making its taxonomic attribution crucial. We also show that in
13 dental traits KC4 possesses modern human rather than Neanderthal
characteristics; three other traits show Neanderthal affinities and a further
seven are ambiguous. KC4 therefore represents the oldest known anatomically
modern human fossil in northwestern Europe, fills a key gap between the earliest 
dated Aurignacian remains and the earliest human skeletal remains, and
demonstrates the wide and rapid dispersal of early modern humans across Europe
more than 40 kyr ago.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10484 
PMID: 22048314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7373):359-64. doi: 10.1038/nature10574.

Species-specific responses of Late Quaternary megafauna to climate and humans.

Lorenzen ED(1), Nogués-Bravo D, Orlando L, Weinstock J, Binladen J, Marske KA,
Ugan A, Borregaard MK, Gilbert MT, Nielsen R, Ho SY, Goebel T, Graf KE, Byers D, 
Stenderup JT, Rasmussen M, Campos PF, Leonard JA, Koepfli KP, Froese D, Zazula G,
Stafford TW Jr, Aaris-Sørensen K, Batra P, Haywood AM, Singarayer JS, Valdes PJ, 
Boeskorov G, Burns JA, Davydov SP, Haile J, Jenkins DL, Kosintsev P, Kuznetsova
T, Lai X, Martin LD, McDonald HG, Mol D, Meldgaard M, Munch K, Stephan E, Sablin 
M, Sommer RS, Sipko T, Scott E, Suchard MA, Tikhonov A, Willerslev R, Wayne RK,
Cooper A, Hofreiter M, Sher A, Shapiro B, Rahbek C, Willerslev E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for GeoGenetics, University of Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 
Copenhagen K, Denmark.

Despite decades of research, the roles of climate and humans in driving the
dramatic extinctions of large-bodied mammals during the Late Quaternary period
remain contentious. Here we use ancient DNA, species distribution models and the 
human fossil record to elucidate how climate and humans shaped the demographic
history of woolly rhinoceros, woolly mammoth, wild horse, reindeer, bison and
musk ox. We show that climate has been a major driver of population change over
the past 50,000 years. However, each species responds differently to the effects 
of climatic shifts, habitat redistribution and human encroachment. Although
climate change alone can explain the extinction of some species, such as Eurasian
musk ox and woolly rhinoceros, a combination of climatic and anthropogenic
effects appears to be responsible for the extinction of others, including
Eurasian steppe bison and wild horse. We find no genetic signature or any
distinctive range dynamics distinguishing extinct from surviving species,
emphasizing the challenges associated with predicting future responses of extant 
mammals to climate and human-mediated habitat change.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10574 
PMCID: PMC4070744
PMID: 22048313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7372):232-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10600.

Clearance of p16Ink4a-positive senescent cells delays ageing-associated
disorders.

Baker DJ(1), Wijshake T, Tchkonia T, LeBrasseur NK, Childs BG, van de Sluis B,
Kirkland JL, van Deursen JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, Mayo Clinic College of
Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):186-7.

Advanced age is the main risk factor for most chronic diseases and functional
deficits in humans, but the fundamental mechanisms that drive ageing remain
largely unknown, impeding the development of interventions that might delay or
prevent age-related disorders and maximize healthy lifespan. Cellular senescence,
which halts the proliferation of damaged or dysfunctional cells, is an important 
mechanism to constrain the malignant progression of tumour cells. Senescent cells
accumulate in various tissues and organs with ageing and have been hypothesized
to disrupt tissue structure and function because of the components they secrete. 
However, whether senescent cells are causally implicated in age-related
dysfunction and whether their removal is beneficial has remained unknown. To
address these fundamental questions, we made use of a biomarker for senescence,
p16(Ink4a), to design a novel transgene, INK-ATTAC, for inducible elimination of 
p16(Ink4a)-positive senescent cells upon administration of a drug. Here we show
that in the BubR1 progeroid mouse background, INK-ATTAC removes
p16(Ink4a)-positive senescent cells upon drug treatment. In tissues--such as
adipose tissue, skeletal muscle and eye--in which p16(Ink4a) contributes to the
acquisition of age-related pathologies, life-long removal of
p16(Ink4a)-expressing cells delayed onset of these phenotypes. Furthermore,
late-life clearance attenuated progression of already established age-related
disorders. These data indicate that cellular senescence is causally implicated in
generating age-related phenotypes and that removal of senescent cells can prevent
or delay tissue dysfunction and extend healthspan.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10600 
PMCID: PMC3468323
PMID: 22048312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;479(7374):525-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10617.

Early dispersal of modern humans in Europe and implications for Neanderthal
behaviour.

Benazzi S(1), Douka K, Fornai C, Bauer CC, Kullmer O, Svoboda J, Pap I, Mallegni 
F, Bayle P, Coquerelle M, Condemi S, Ronchitelli A, Harvati K, Weber GW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090
Vienna, Austria. stefano.benazzi@univie.ac.at

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):483-5.

The appearance of anatomically modern humans in Europe and the nature of the
transition from the Middle to Upper Palaeolithic are matters of intense debate.
Most researchers accept that before the arrival of anatomically modern humans,
Neanderthals had adopted several 'transitional' technocomplexes. Two of these,
the Uluzzian of southern Europe and the Châtelperronian of western Europe, are
key to current interpretations regarding the timing of arrival of anatomically
modern humans in the region and their potential interaction with Neanderthal
populations. They are also central to current debates regarding the cognitive
abilities of Neanderthals and the reasons behind their extinction. However, the
actual fossil evidence associated with these assemblages is scant and
fragmentary, and recent work has questioned the attribution of the
Châtelperronian to Neanderthals on the basis of taphonomic mixing and lithic
analysis. Here we reanalyse the deciduous molars from the Grotta del Cavallo
(southern Italy), associated with the Uluzzian and originally classified as
Neanderthal. Using two independent morphometric methods based on microtomographic
data, we show that the Cavallo specimens can be attributed to anatomically modern
humans. The secure context of the teeth provides crucial evidence that the makers
of the Uluzzian technocomplex were therefore not Neanderthals. In addition, new
chronometric data for the Uluzzian layers of Grotta del Cavallo obtained from
associated shell beads and included within a Bayesian age model show that the
teeth must date to ~45,000-43,000 calendar years before present. The Cavallo
human remains are therefore the oldest known European anatomically modern humans,
confirming a rapid dispersal of modern humans across the continent before the
Aurignacian and the disappearance of Neanderthals.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10617 
PMID: 22048311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 2011 Nov 2;480(7378):530-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10639.

Adherens junction protein nectin-4 is the epithelial receptor for measles virus.

Mühlebach MD(1), Mateo M, Sinn PL, Prüfer S, Uhlig KM, Leonard VH, Navaratnarajah
CK, Frenzke M, Wong XX, Sawatsky B, Ramachandran S, McCray PB Jr, Cichutek K, von
Messling V, Lopez M, Cattaneo R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Biotechnology, Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, 63225 Langen,
Germany.

Measles virus is an aerosol-transmitted virus that affects more than 10 million
children each year and accounts for approximately 120,000 deaths. Although it was
long believed to replicate in the respiratory epithelium before disseminating, it
was recently shown to infect initially macrophages and dendritic cells of the
airways using signalling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 1 (SLAMF1;
also called CD150) as a receptor. These cells then cross the respiratory
epithelium and transport the infection to lymphatic organs where measles virus
replicates vigorously. How and where the virus crosses back into the airways has 
remained unknown. On the basis of functional analyses of surface proteins
preferentially expressed on virus-permissive human epithelial cell lines, here we
identify nectin-4 (ref. 8; also called poliovirus-receptor-like-4 (PVRL4)) as a
candidate host exit receptor. This adherens junction protein of the
immunoglobulin superfamily interacts with the viral attachment protein with high 
affinity through its membrane-distal domain. Nectin-4 sustains measles virus
entry and non-cytopathic lateral spread in well-differentiated primary human
airway epithelial sheets infected basolaterally. It is downregulated in infected 
epithelial cells, including those of macaque tracheae. Although other viruses use
receptors to enter hosts or transit through their epithelial barriers, we suggest
that measles virus targets nectin-4 to emerge in the airways. Nectin-4 is a
cellular marker of several types of cancer, which has implications for ongoing
measles-virus-based clinical trials of oncolysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10639 
PMCID: PMC3245798
PMID: 22048310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 2011 Oct 30;480(7376):254-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10575.

Mapping intact protein isoforms in discovery mode using top-down proteomics.

Tran JC(1), Zamdborg L, Ahlf DR, Lee JE, Catherman AD, Durbin KR, Tipton JD,
Vellaichamy A, Kellie JF, Li M, Wu C, Sweet SM, Early BP, Siuti N, LeDuc RD,
Compton PD, Thomas PM, Kelleher NL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, and the Institute for Genomic
Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Dec;8(12):1002.

A full description of the human proteome relies on the challenging task of
detecting mature and changing forms of protein molecules in the body. Large-scale
proteome analysis has routinely involved digesting intact proteins followed by
inferred protein identification using mass spectrometry. This 'bottom-up' process
affords a high number of identifications (not always unique to a single gene).
However, complications arise from incomplete or ambiguous characterization of
alternative splice forms, diverse modifications (for example, acetylation and
methylation) and endogenous protein cleavages, especially when combinations of
these create complex patterns of intact protein isoforms and species. 'Top-down' 
interrogation of whole proteins can overcome these problems for individual
proteins, but has not been achieved on a proteome scale owing to the lack of
intact protein fractionation methods that are well integrated with tandem mass
spectrometry. Here we show, using a new four-dimensional separation system,
identification of 1,043 gene products from human cells that are dispersed into
more than 3,000 protein species created by post-translational modification (PTM),
RNA splicing and proteolysis. The overall system produced greater than 20-fold
increases in both separation power and proteome coverage, enabling the
identification of proteins up to 105 kDa and those with up to 11 transmembrane
helices. Many previously undetected isoforms of endogenous human proteins were
mapped, including changes in multiply modified species in response to accelerated
cellular ageing (senescence) induced by DNA damage. Integrated with the latest
version of the Swiss-Prot database, the data provide precise correlations to
individual genes and proof-of-concept for large-scale interrogation of whole
protein molecules. The technology promises to improve the link between proteomics
data and complex phenotypes in basic biology and disease research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10575 
PMCID: PMC3237778
PMID: 22037311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 2011 Oct 30;480(7376):268-72. doi: 10.1038/nature10577.

Atomic-resolution dynamics on the surface of amyloid-β protofibrils probed by
solution NMR.

Fawzi NL(1), Ying J, Ghirlando R, Torchia DA, Clore GM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Physics, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-0520, USA.

Exchange dynamics between molecules free in solution and bound to the surface of 
a large supramolecular structure, a polymer, a membrane or solid support are
important in many phenomena in biology and materials science. Here we present a
novel and generally applicable solution NMR technique, known as dark-state
exchange saturation transfer (DEST), to probe such exchange phenomena with atomic
resolution. This is illustrated by the exchange reaction between amyloid-β (Aβ)
monomers and polydisperse, NMR-invisible ('dark') protofibrils, a process of
significant interest because the accumulation of toxic, aggregated forms of Aβ,
from small oligomers to very large assemblies, has been implicated in the
aetiology of Alzheimer's disease. The (15)N-DEST experiment imprints with
single-residue-resolution dynamic information on the protofibril-bound species in
the form of (15)N transverse relaxation rates ((15)N-R(2)) and exchange kinetics 
between monomers and protofibrils onto the easily observed two-dimensional
(1)H-(15)N correlation spectrum of the monomer. The exchanging species on the
protofibril surface comprise an ensemble of sparsely populated states where each 
residue is either tethered to (through other residues) or in direct contact with 
the surface. The first eight residues exist predominantly in a mobile tethered
state, whereas the largely hydrophobic central region and part of the carboxy
(C)-terminal hydrophobic region are in direct contact with the protofibril
surface for a significant proportion of the time. The C-terminal residues of both
Aβ40 and Aβ42 display lower affinity for the protofibril surface, indicating that
they are likely to be surface exposed rather than buried as in structures of Aβ
fibrils, and might therefore comprise the critical nucleus for fibril formation. 
The values, however, are significantly larger for the C-terminal residues of Aβ42
than Aβ40, which might explain the former's higher propensity for rapid
aggregation and fibril formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10577 
PMCID: PMC3237923
PMID: 22037310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 2011 Oct 30;479(7374):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10531.

Somatic retrotransposition alters the genetic landscape of the human brain.

Baillie JK(1), Barnett MW, Upton KR, Gerhardt DJ, Richmond TA, De Sapio F,
Brennan PM, Rizzu P, Smith S, Fell M, Talbot RT, Gustincich S, Freeman TC,
Mattick JS, Hume DA, Heutink P, Carninci P, Jeddeloh JA, Faulkner GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics and Genomics, The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick)
School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh, Easter Bush, Edinburgh
EH25 9RG, UK.

Retrotransposons are mobile genetic elements that use a germline 'copy-and-paste'
mechanism to spread throughout metazoan genomes. At least 50 per cent of the
human genome is derived from retrotransposons, with three active families (L1,
Alu and SVA) associated with insertional mutagenesis and disease. Epigenetic and 
post-transcriptional suppression block retrotransposition in somatic cells,
excluding early embryo development and some malignancies. Recent reports of L1
expression and copy number variation in the human brain suggest that L1
mobilization may also occur during later development. However, the corresponding 
integration sites have not been mapped. Here we apply a high-throughput method to
identify numerous L1, Alu and SVA germline mutations, as well as 7,743 putative
somatic L1 insertions, in the hippocampus and caudate nucleus of three
individuals. Surprisingly, we also found 13,692 somatic Alu insertions and 1,350 
SVA insertions. Our results demonstrate that retrotransposons mobilize to
protein-coding genes differentially expressed and active in the brain. Thus,
somatic genome mosaicism driven by retrotransposition may reshape the genetic
circuitry that underpins normal and abnormal neurobiological processes.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10531 
PMCID: PMC3224101
PMID: 22037309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 2011 Oct 30;480(7376):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10571.

Ecology drives a global network of gene exchange connecting the human microbiome.

Smillie CS(1), Smith MB, Friedman J, Cordero OX, David LA, Alm EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Computational and Systems Biology Initiative, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Horizontal gene transfer (HGT), the acquisition of genetic material from
non-parental lineages, is known to be important in bacterial evolution. In
particular, HGT provides rapid access to genetic innovations, allowing traits
such as virulence, antibiotic resistance and xenobiotic metabolism to spread
through the human microbiome. Recent anecdotal studies providing snapshots of
active gene flow on the human body have highlighted the need to determine the
frequency of such recent transfers and the forces that govern these events. Here 
we report the discovery and characterization of a vast, human-associated network 
of gene exchange, large enough to directly compare the principal forces shaping
HGT. We show that this network of 10,770 unique, recently transferred (more than 
99% nucleotide identity) genes found in 2,235 full bacterial genomes, is shaped
principally by ecology rather than geography or phylogeny, with most gene
exchange occurring between isolates from ecologically similar, but geographically
separated, environments. For example, we observe 25-fold more HGT between
human-associated bacteria than among ecologically diverse non-human isolates (P =
3.0 × 10(-270)). We show that within the human microbiome this ecological
architecture continues across multiple spatial scales, functional classes and
ecological niches with transfer further enriched among bacteria that inhabit the 
same body site, have the same oxygen tolerance or have the same ability to cause 
disease. This structure offers a window into the molecular traits that define
ecological niches, insight that we use to uncover sources of antibiotic
resistance and identify genes associated with the pathology of meningitis and
other diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10571 
PMID: 22037308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 2011 Oct 30;480(7375):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10579.

Control of Drosophila endocycles by E2F and CRL4(CDT2).

Zielke N(1), Kim KJ, Tran V, Shibutani ST, Bravo MJ, Nagarajan S, van Straaten M,
Woods B, von Dassow G, Rottig C, Lehner CF, Grewal SS, Duronio RJ, Edgar BA.

Author information: 
(1)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ)-Zentrum für Molekulare Biologie der
Universität Heidelberg Alliance, Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, 69120 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Dec;12(12):768.

Endocycles are variant cell cycles comprised of DNA synthesis (S)- and gap
(G)-phases but lacking mitosis. Such cycles facilitate post-mitotic growth in
many invertebrate and plant cells, and are so ubiquitous that they may account
for up to half the world's biomass. DNA replication in endocycling Drosophila
cells is triggered by cyclin E/cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CYCE/CDK2), but this
kinase must be inactivated during each G-phase to allow the assembly of
pre-Replication Complexes (preRCs) for the next S-phase. How CYCE/CDK2 is
periodically silenced to allow re-replication has not been established. Here,
using genetic tests in parallel with computational modelling, we show that the
endocycles of Drosophila are driven by a molecular oscillator in which the E2F1
transcription factor promotes CycE expression and S-phase initiation, S-phase
then activates the CRL4(CDT2) ubiquitin ligase, and this in turn mediates the
destruction of E2F1 (ref. 7). We propose that it is the transient loss of E2F1
during S phases that creates the window of low Cdk activity required for preRC
formation. In support of this model overexpressed E2F1 accelerated endocycling,
whereas a stabilized variant of E2F1 blocked endocycling by deregulating target
genes, including CycE, as well as Cdk1 and mitotic cyclins. Moreover, we find
that altering cell growth by changing nutrition or target of rapamycin (TOR)
signalling impacts E2F1 translation, thereby making endocycle progression
growth-dependent. Many of the regulatory interactions essential to this novel
cell cycle oscillator are conserved in animals and plants, indicating that
elements of this mechanism act in most growth-dependent cell cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10579 
PMCID: PMC3330263
PMID: 22037307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;478(7370):542-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10503.

Saccharomyces cerevisiae THI4p is a suicide thiamine thiazole synthase.

Chatterjee A(1), Abeydeera ND, Bale S, Pai PJ, Dorrestein PC, Russell DH, Ealick 
SE, Begley TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 27;478(7370):463-4.

Thiamine pyrophosphate 1 is an essential cofactor in all living systems. Its
biosynthesis involves the separate syntheses of the pyrimidine 2 and thiazole 3
precursors, which are then coupled. Two biosynthetic routes to the thiamine
thiazole have been identified. In prokaryotes, five enzymes act on three
substrates to produce the thiazole via a complex oxidative condensation reaction,
the mechanistic details of which are now well established. In contrast, only one 
gene product is involved in thiazole biosynthesis in eukaryotes (THI4p in
Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Here we report the preparation of fully active
recombinant wild-type THI4p, the identification of an iron-dependent sulphide
transfer reaction from a conserved cysteine residue of the protein to a reaction 
intermediate and the demonstration that THI4p is a suicide enzyme undergoing only
a single turnover.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10503 
PMCID: PMC3205460
PMID: 22031445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;478(7370):519-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10524.

Temporal dynamics and genetic control of transcription in the human prefrontal
cortex.

Colantuoni C(1), Lipska BK, Ye T, Hyde TM, Tao R, Leek JT, Colantuoni EA,
Elkahloun AG, Herman MM, Weinberger DR, Kleinman JE.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Neuropathology, Clinical Brain Disorders Branch, Genes, Cognition
and Psychosis Program, IRP, NIMH, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Previous investigations have combined transcriptional and genetic analyses in
human cell lines, but few have applied these techniques to human neural tissue.
To gain a global molecular perspective on the role of the human genome in
cortical development, function and ageing, we explore the temporal dynamics and
genetic control of transcription in human prefrontal cortex in an extensive
series of post-mortem brains from fetal development through ageing. We discover a
wave of gene expression changes occurring during fetal development which are
reversed in early postnatal life. One half-century later in life, this pattern of
reversals is mirrored in ageing and in neurodegeneration. Although we identify
thousands of robust associations of individual genetic polymorphisms with gene
expression, we also demonstrate that there is no association between the total
extent of genetic differences between subjects and the global similarity of their
transcriptional profiles. Hence, the human genome produces a consistent molecular
architecture in the prefrontal cortex, despite millions of genetic differences
across individuals and races. To enable further discovery, this entire data set
is freely available (from Gene Expression Omnibus: accession GSE30272; and dbGaP:
accession phs000417.v1.p1) and can also be interrogated via a biologist-friendly 
stand-alone application (http://www.libd.org/braincloud).

DOI: 10.1038/nature10524 
PMCID: PMC3510670
PMID: 22031444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;478(7370):502-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10535.

Structure and reactivity of a mononuclear non-haem iron(III)-peroxo complex.

Cho J(1), Jeon S, Wilson SA, Liu LV, Kang EA, Braymer JJ, Lim MH, Hedman B,
Hodgson KO, Valentine JS, Solomon EI, Nam W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioinspired Science, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 120-750,
Korea.

Oxygen-containing mononuclear iron species--iron(III)-peroxo,
iron(III)-hydroperoxo and iron(IV)-oxo--are key intermediates in the catalytic
activation of dioxygen by iron-containing metalloenzymes. It has been difficult
to generate synthetic analogues of these three active iron-oxygen species in
identical host complexes, which is necessary to elucidate changes to the
structure of the iron centre during catalysis and the factors that control their 
chemical reactivities with substrates. Here we report the high-resolution crystal
structure of a mononuclear non-haem side-on iron(III)-peroxo complex,
[Fe(III)(TMC)(OO)](+). We also report a series of chemical reactions in which
this iron(III)-peroxo complex is cleanly converted to the iron(III)-hydroperoxo
complex, [Fe(III)(TMC)(OOH)](2+), via a short-lived intermediate on protonation. 
This iron(III)-hydroperoxo complex then cleanly converts to the ferryl complex,
[Fe(IV)(TMC)(O)](2+), via homolytic O-O bond cleavage of the
iron(III)-hydroperoxo species. All three of these iron species--the three most
biologically relevant iron-oxygen intermediates--have been spectroscopically
characterized; we note that they have been obtained using a simple macrocyclic
ligand. We have performed relative reactivity studies on these three iron species
which reveal that the iron(III)-hydroperoxo complex is the most reactive of the
three in the deformylation of aldehydes and that it has a similar reactivity to
the iron(IV)-oxo complex in C-H bond activation of alkylaromatics. These
reactivity results demonstrate that iron(III)-hydroperoxo species are viable
oxidants in both nucleophilic and electrophilic reactions by iron-containing
enzymes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10535 
PMCID: PMC3306242
PMID: 22031443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;478(7370):497-501. doi: 10.1038/nature10528.

Laser cooling and real-time measurement of the nuclear spin environment of a
solid-state qubit.

Togan E(1), Chu Y, Imamoglu A, Lukin MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

Control over quantum dynamics of open systems is one of the central challenges in
quantum science and engineering. Coherent optical techniques, such as coherent
population trapping involving dark resonances, are widely used to control quantum
states of isolated atoms and ions. In conjunction with spontaneous emission, they
allow for laser cooling of atomic motion, preparation and manipulation of atomic 
states, and rapid quantum optical measurements that are essential for
applications in metrology. Here we show that these techniques can be applied to
monitor and control individual atom-like impurities, and their local environment,
in the solid state. Using all-optical manipulation of the electronic spin of an
individual nitrogen-vacancy colour centre in diamond, we demonstrate optical
cooling, real-time measurement and conditional preparation of its nuclear spin
environment by post-selection. These methods offer potential applications ranging
from all-optical nanomagnetometry to quantum feedback control of solid-state
qubits, and may lead to new approaches for quantum information storage and
processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10528 
PMID: 22031442 


144. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;478(7370):493-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10550.

A Pluto-like radius and a high albedo for the dwarf planet Eris from an
occultation.

Sicardy B(1), Ortiz JL, Assafin M, Jehin E, Maury A, Lellouch E, Hutton RG,
Braga-Ribas F, Colas F, Hestroffer D, Lecacheux J, Roques F, Santos-Sanz P,
Widemann T, Morales N, Duffard R, Thirouin A, Castro-Tirado AJ, Jelínek M,
Kubánek P, Sota A, Sánchez-Ramírez R, Andrei AH, Camargo JI, da Silva Neto DN,
Gomes AR Jr, Martins RV, Gillon M, Manfroid J, Tozzi GP, Harlingten C, Saravia S,
Behrend R, Mottola S, Melendo EG, Peris V, Fabregat J, Madiedo JM, Cuesta L, Eibe
MT, Ullán A, Organero F, Pastor S, de Los Reyes JA, Pedraz S, Castro A, de la
Cueva I, Muler G, Steele IA, Cebrián M, Montañés-Rodríguez P, Oscoz A, Weaver D, 
Jacques C, Corradi WJ, Santos FP, Reis W, Milone A, Emilio M, Gutiérrez L,
Vázquez R, Hernández-Toledo H.

Author information: 
(1)LESIA-Observatoire de Paris, CNRS, Université Pierre et Marie Curie,
Université Paris-Diderot, 11, Rue Marcelin Berthelot, 92195 Meudon cedex, France.
bruno.sicardy@obspm.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 27;478(7370):464-5.

The dwarf planet Eris is a trans-Neptunian object with an orbital eccentricity of
0.44, an inclination of 44 degrees and a surface composition very similar to that
of Pluto. It resides at present at 95.7 astronomical units (1 AU is the Earth-Sun
distance) from Earth, near its aphelion and more than three times farther than
Pluto. Owing to this great distance, measuring its size or detecting a putative
atmosphere is difficult. Here we report the observation of a multi-chord stellar 
occultation by Eris on 6 November 2010 UT. The event is consistent with a
spherical shape for Eris, with radius 1,163 ± 6 kilometres, density 2.52 ± 0.05
grams per cm(3) and a high visible geometric albedo, Pv = 0.96(+0.09)(-0.04). No 
nitrogen, argon or methane atmospheres are detected with surface pressure larger 
than ∼1 nanobar, about 10,000 times more tenuous than Pluto's present atmosphere.
As Pluto's radius is estimated to be between 1,150 and 1,200 kilometres, Eris
appears as a Pluto twin, with a bright surface possibly caused by a collapsed
atmosphere, owing to its cold environment. We anticipate that this atmosphere may
periodically sublimate as Eris approaches its perihelion, at 37.8 astronomical
units from the Sun.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10550 
PMID: 22031441 


145. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;478(7370):483-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10523.

Spatio-temporal transcriptome of the human brain.

Kang HJ(1), Kawasawa YI, Cheng F, Zhu Y, Xu X, Li M, Sousa AM, Pletikos M, Meyer 
KA, Sedmak G, Guennel T, Shin Y, Johnson MB, Krsnik Z, Mayer S, Fertuzinhos S,
Umlauf S, Lisgo SN, Vortmeyer A, Weinberger DR, Mane S, Hyde TM, Huttner A,
Reimers M, Kleinman JE, Sestan N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Dec;12(12):703.

Brain development and function depend on the precise regulation of gene
expression. However, our understanding of the complexity and dynamics of the
transcriptome of the human brain is incomplete. Here we report the generation and
analysis of exon-level transcriptome and associated genotyping data, representing
males and females of different ethnicities, from multiple brain regions and
neocortical areas of developing and adult post-mortem human brains. We found that
86 per cent of the genes analysed were expressed, and that 90 per cent of these
were differentially regulated at the whole-transcript or exon level across brain 
regions and/or time. The majority of these spatio-temporal differences were
detected before birth, with subsequent increases in the similarity among regional
transcriptomes. The transcriptome is organized into distinct co-expression
networks, and shows sex-biased gene expression and exon usage. We also profiled
trajectories of genes associated with neurobiological categories and diseases,
and identified associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms and gene
expression. This study provides a comprehensive data set on the human brain
transcriptome and insights into the transcriptional foundations of human
neurodevelopment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10523 
PMCID: PMC3566780
PMID: 22031440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;480(7377):364-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10526.

Resolving the evolutionary relationships of molluscs with phylogenomic tools.

Smith SA(1), Wilson NG, Goetz FE, Feehery C, Andrade SC, Rouse GW, Giribet G,
Dunn CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University, Providence, 
Rhode Island 02912, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):708.

Molluscs (snails, octopuses, clams and their relatives) have a great disparity of
body plans and, among the animals, only arthropods surpass them in species
number. This diversity has made Mollusca one of the best-studied groups of
animals, yet their evolutionary relationships remain poorly resolved. Open
questions have important implications for the origin of Mollusca and for
morphological evolution within the group. These questions include whether the
shell-less, vermiform aplacophoran molluscs diverged before the origin of the
shelled molluscs (Conchifera) or lost their shells secondarily. Monoplacophorans 
were not included in molecular studies until recently, when it was proposed that 
they constitute a clade named Serialia together with Polyplacophora (chitons),
reflecting the serial repetition of body organs in both groups. Attempts to
understand the early evolution of molluscs become even more complex when
considering the large diversity of Cambrian fossils. These can have multiple
dorsal shell plates and sclerites or can be shell-less but with a typical
molluscan radula and serially repeated gills. To better resolve the relationships
among molluscs, we generated transcriptome data for 15 species that, in
combination with existing data, represent for the first time all major molluscan 
groups. We analysed multiple data sets containing up to 216,402 sites and 1,185
gene regions using multiple models and methods. Our results support the clade
Aculifera, containing the three molluscan groups with spicules but without true
shells, and they support the monophyly of Conchifera. Monoplacophora is not the
sister group to other Conchifera but to Cephalopoda. Strong support is found for 
a clade that comprises Scaphopoda (tusk shells), Gastropoda and Bivalvia, with
most analyses placing Scaphopoda and Gastropoda as sister groups. This
well-resolved tree will constitute a framework for further studies of mollusc
evolution, development and anatomy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10526 
PMID: 22031330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;479(7371):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10542.

Mixed aromatic-aliphatic organic nanoparticles as carriers of unidentified
infrared emission features.

Kwok S(1), Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, The University of Hong Kong,
Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong, China. sunkwok@hku.hk

Unidentified infrared emission bands at wavelengths of 3-20 micrometres are
widely observed in a range of environments in our Galaxy and in others. Some
features have been identified as the stretching and bending modes of aromatic
compounds, and are commonly attributed to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon
molecules. The central argument supporting this attribution is that single-photon
excitation of the molecule can account for the unidentified infrared emission
features observed in 'cirrus' clouds in the diffuse interstellar medium. Of the
more than 160 molecules identified in the circumstellar and interstellar
environments, however, not one is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon molecule. The
detections of discrete and broad aliphatic spectral features suggest that the
carrier of the unidentified infrared emission features cannot be a pure aromatic 
compound. Here we report an analysis of archival spectroscopic observations and
demonstrate that the data are most consistent with the carriers being amorphous
organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure. This structure is
similar to that of the organic materials found in meteorites, as would be
expected if the Solar System had inherited these organic materials from
interstellar sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10542 
PMID: 22031328 


148. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;479(7374):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10553.

Ascaris suum draft genome.

Jex AR(1), Liu S, Li B, Young ND, Hall RS, Li Y, Yang L, Zeng N, Xu X, Xiong Z,
Chen F, Wu X, Zhang G, Fang X, Kang Y, Anderson GA, Harris TW, Campbell BE,
Vlaminck J, Wang T, Cantacessi C, Schwarz EM, Ranganathan S, Geldhof P, Nejsum P,
Sternberg PW, Yang H, Wang J, Wang J, Gasser RB.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Science, The University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria 3010, Australia. ajex@unimelb.edu.au

Parasitic diseases have a devastating, long-term impact on human health, welfare 
and food production worldwide. More than two billion people are infected with
geohelminths, including the roundworms Ascaris (common roundworm), Necator and
Ancylostoma (hookworms), and Trichuris (whipworm), mainly in developing or
impoverished nations of Asia, Africa and Latin America. In humans, the diseases
caused by these parasites result in about 135,000 deaths annually, with a global 
burden comparable with that of malaria or tuberculosis in disability-adjusted
life years. Ascaris alone infects around 1.2 billion people and, in children,
causes nutritional deficiency, impaired physical and cognitive development and,
in severe cases, death. Ascaris also causes major production losses in pigs owing
to reduced growth, failure to thrive and mortality. The Ascaris-swine model makes
it possible to study the parasite, its relationship with the host, and ascariasis
at the molecular level. To enable such molecular studies, we report the 273
megabase draft genome of Ascaris suum and compare it with other nematode genomes.
This genome has low repeat content (4.4%) and encodes about 18,500 protein-coding
genes. Notably, the A. suum secretome (about 750 molecules) is rich in peptidases
linked to the penetration and degradation of host tissues, and an assemblage of
molecules likely to modulate or evade host immune responses. This genome provides
a comprehensive resource to the scientific community and underpins the
development of new and urgently needed interventions (drugs, vaccines and
diagnostic tests) against ascariasis and other nematodiases.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10553 
PMID: 22031327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;480(7378):513-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10570.

Lowland-upland migration of sauropod dinosaurs during the Late Jurassic epoch.

Fricke HC(1), Hencecroth J, Hoerner ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, Colorado College, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80903,
USA. hfricke@coloradocollege.edu

Sauropod dinosaurs were the largest vertebrates ever to walk the Earth, and as
mega-herbivores they were important parts of terrestrial ecosystems. In the Late 
Jurassic-aged Morrison depositional basin of western North America, these animals
occupied lowland river-floodplain settings characterized by a seasonally dry
climate. Massive herbivores with high nutritional and water needs could
periodically experience nutritional and water stress under these conditions, and 
thus the common occurrence of sauropods in this basin has remained a paradox.
Energetic arguments and mammalian analogues have been used to suggest that
migration allowed sauropods access to food and water resources over a wide region
or during times of drought or both, but there has been no direct support for
these hypotheses. Here we compare oxygen isotope ratios (δ(18)O) of tooth-enamel 
carbonate from the sauropod Camarasaurus with those of ancient soil, lake and
wetland (that is, 'authigenic') carbonates that formed in lowland settings. We
demonstrate that certain populations of these animals did in fact undertake
seasonal migrations of several hundred kilometres from lowland to upland
environments. This ability to describe patterns of sauropod movement will help to
elucidate the role that migration played in the ecology and evolution of
gigantism of these and associated dinosaurs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10570 
PMID: 22031326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;479(7374):538-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10554.

Commensal microbiota and myelin autoantigen cooperate to trigger autoimmune
demyelination.

Berer K(1), Mues M, Koutrolos M, Rasbi ZA, Boziki M, Johner C, Wekerle H,
Krishnamoorthy G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroimmunology, Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology, 82152
Martinsried, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Dec;11(12):802.

Active multiple sclerosis lesions show inflammatory changes suggestive of a
combined attack by autoreactive T and B lymphocytes against brain white matter.
These pathogenic immune cells derive from progenitors that are normal, innocuous 
components of the healthy immune repertoire but become autoaggressive upon
pathological activation. The stimuli triggering this autoimmune conversion have
been commonly attributed to environmental factors, in particular microbial
infection. However, using the relapsing-remitting mouse model of spontaneously
developing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, here we show that the
commensal gut flora-in the absence of pathogenic agents-is essential in
triggering immune processes, leading to a relapsing-remitting autoimmune disease 
driven by myelin-specific CD4(+) T cells. We show further that recruitment and
activation of autoantibody-producing B cells from the endogenous immune
repertoire depends on availability of the target autoantigen, myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), and commensal microbiota. Our observations
identify a sequence of events triggering organ-specific autoimmune disease and
these processes may offer novel therapeutic targets.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10554 
PMID: 22031325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 2011 Oct 26;480(7377):376-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10590.

Experimental infection of bats with Geomyces destructans causes white-nose
syndrome.

Lorch JM(1), Meteyer CU, Behr MJ, Boyles JG, Cryan PM, Hicks AC, Ballmann AE,
Coleman JT, Redell DN, Reeder DM, Blehert DS.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Environmental Toxicology Center, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

White-nose syndrome (WNS) has caused recent catastrophic declines among multiple 
species of bats in eastern North America. The disease's name derives from a
visually apparent white growth of the newly discovered fungus Geomyces
destructans on the skin (including the muzzle) of hibernating bats. Colonization 
of skin by this fungus is associated with characteristic cutaneous lesions that
are the only consistent pathological finding related to WNS. However, the role of
G. destructans in WNS remains controversial because evidence to implicate the
fungus as the primary cause of this disease is lacking. The debate is fuelled, in
part, by the assumption that fungal infections in mammals are most commonly
associated with immune system dysfunction. Additionally, the recent discovery
that G. destructans commonly colonizes the skin of bats of Europe, where no
unusual bat mortality events have been reported, has generated further
speculation that the fungus is an opportunistic pathogen and that other
unidentified factors are the primary cause of WNS. Here we demonstrate that
exposure of healthy little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) to pure cultures of G.
destructans causes WNS. Live G. destructans was subsequently cultured from
diseased bats, successfully fulfilling established criteria for the determination
of G. destructans as a primary pathogen. We also confirmed that WNS can be
transmitted from infected bats to healthy bats through direct contact. Our
results provide the first direct evidence that G. destructans is the causal agent
of WNS and that the recent emergence of WNS in North America may represent
translocation of the fungus to a region with a naive population of animals.
Demonstration of causality is an instrumental step in elucidating the
pathogenesis and epidemiology of WNS and in guiding management actions to
preserve bat populations against the novel threat posed by this devastating
infectious disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10590 
PMID: 22031324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;479(7374):552-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10545.

Membrane protein sequestering by ionic protein-lipid interactions.

van den Bogaart G(1), Meyenberg K, Risselada HJ, Amin H, Willig KI, Hubrich BE,
Dier M, Hell SW, Grubmüller H, Diederichsen U, Jahn R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Am
Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Neuronal exocytosis is catalysed by the SNAP receptor protein syntaxin-1A, which 
is clustered in the plasma membrane at sites where synaptic vesicles undergo
exocytosis. However, how syntaxin-1A is sequestered is unknown. Here we show that
syntaxin clustering is mediated by electrostatic interactions with the strongly
anionic lipid phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2). Using
super-resolution stimulated-emission depletion microscopy on the plasma membranes
of PC12 cells, we found that PIP2 is the dominant inner-leaflet lipid in
microdomains about 73 nanometres in size. This high accumulation of PIP2 was
required for syntaxin-1A sequestering, as destruction of PIP2 by the phosphatase 
synaptojanin-1 reduced syntaxin-1A clustering. Furthermore, co-reconstitution of 
PIP2 and the carboxy-terminal part of syntaxin-1A in artificial giant unilamellar
vesicles resulted in segregation of PIP2 and syntaxin-1A into distinct domains
even when cholesterol was absent. Our results demonstrate that electrostatic
protein-lipid interactions can result in the formation of microdomains
independently of cholesterol or lipid phases.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10545 
PMCID: PMC3409895
PMID: 22020284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;479(7373):401-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10517.

Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor 3DL1-mediated recognition of human
leukocyte antigen B.

Vivian JP(1), Duncan RC, Berry R, O'Connor GM, Reid HH, Beddoe T, Gras S,
Saunders PM, Olshina MA, Widjaja JM, Harpur CM, Lin J, Maloveste SM, Price DA,
Lafont BA, McVicar DW, Clements CS, Brooks AG, Rossjohn J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Biomedical
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.

Members of the killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) family, a large
group of polymorphic receptors expressed on natural killer (NK) cells, recognize 
particular peptide-laden human leukocyte antigen (pHLA) class I molecules and
have a pivotal role in innate immune responses. Allelic variation and extensive
polymorphism within the three-domain KIR family (KIR3D, domains D0-D1-D2) affects
pHLA binding specificity and is linked to the control of viral replication and
the treatment outcome of certain haematological malignancies. Here we describe
the structure of a human KIR3DL1 receptor bound to HLA-B*5701 complexed with a
self-peptide. KIR3DL1 clamped around the carboxy-terminal end of the HLA-B*5701
antigen-binding cleft, resulting in two discontinuous footprints on the pHLA.
First, the D0 domain, a distinguishing feature of the KIR3D family, extended
towards β2-microglobulin and abutted a region of the HLA molecule with limited
polymorphism, thereby acting as an 'innate HLA sensor' domain. Second, whereas
the D2-HLA-B*5701 interface exhibited a high degree of complementarity, the
D1-pHLA-B*5701 contacts were suboptimal and accommodated a degree of sequence
variation both within the peptide and the polymorphic region of the HLA molecule.
Although the two-domain KIR (KIR2D) and KIR3DL1 docked similarly onto HLA-C and
HLA-B respectively, the corresponding D1-mediated interactions differed markedly,
thereby providing insight into the specificity of KIR3DL1 for discrete HLA-A and 
HLA-B allotypes. Collectively, in association with extensive mutagenesis studies 
at the KIR3DL1-pHLA-B*5701 interface, we provide a framework for understanding
the intricate interplay between peptide variability, KIR3D and HLA polymorphism
in determining the specificity requirements of this essential innate interaction 
that is conserved across primate species.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10517 
PMCID: PMC3723390
PMID: 22020283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;479(7373):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10536.

Oxygen sensing in plants is mediated by an N-end rule pathway for protein
destabilization.

Licausi F(1), Kosmacz M, Weits DA, Giuntoli B, Giorgi FM, Voesenek LA, Perata P, 
van Dongen JT.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology, Am Muehlenberg 1, 14476,
Potsdam-Golm, Germany. f.licausi@sssup.it

The majority of eukaryotic organisms rely on molecular oxygen for respiratory
energy production. When the supply of oxygen is compromised, a variety of
acclimation responses are activated to reduce the detrimental effects of energy
depletion. Various oxygen-sensing mechanisms have been described that are thought
to trigger these responses, but they each seem to be kingdom specific and no
sensing mechanism has been identified in plants until now. Here we show that one 
branch of the ubiquitin-dependent N-end rule pathway for protein degradation,
which is active in both mammals and plants, functions as an oxygen-sensing
mechanism in Arabidopsis thaliana. We identified a conserved amino-terminal amino
acid sequence of the ethylene response factor (ERF)-transcription factor RAP2.12 
to be dedicated to an oxygen-dependent sequence of post-translational
modifications, which ultimately lead to degradation of RAP2.12 under aerobic
conditions. When the oxygen concentration is low-as during flooding-RAP2.12 is
released from the plasma membrane and accumulates in the nucleus to activate gene
expression for hypoxia acclimation. Our discovery of an oxygen-sensing mechanism 
opens up new possibilities for improving flooding tolerance in crops.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10536 
PMID: 22020282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;479(7372):245-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10522.

Rad51 paralogues Rad55-Rad57 balance the antirecombinase Srs2 in Rad51 filament
formation.

Liu J(1), Renault L, Veaute X, Fabre F, Stahlberg H, Heyer WD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, Davis, California
95616-8665, USA.

Homologous recombination is a high-fidelity DNA repair pathway. Besides a
critical role in accurate chromosome segregation during meiosis, recombination
functions in DNA repair and in the recovery of stalled or broken replication
forks to ensure genomic stability. In contrast, inappropriate recombination
contributes to genomic instability, leading to loss of heterozygosity, chromosome
rearrangements and cell death. The RecA/UvsX/RadA/Rad51 family of proteins
catalyses the signature reactions of recombination, homology search and DNA
strand invasion. Eukaryotes also possess Rad51 paralogues, whose exact role in
recombination remains to be defined. Here we show that the Saccharomyces
cerevisiae Rad51 paralogues, the Rad55-Rad57 heterodimer, counteract the
antirecombination activity of the Srs2 helicase. The Rad55-Rad57 heterodimer
associates with the Rad51-single-stranded DNA filament, rendering it more stable 
than a nucleoprotein filament containing Rad51 alone. The Rad51-Rad55-Rad57
co-filament resists disruption by the Srs2 antirecombinase by blocking Srs2
translocation, involving a direct protein interaction between Rad55-Rad57 and
Srs2. Our results demonstrate an unexpected role of the Rad51 paralogues in
stabilizing the Rad51 filament against a biologically important antagonist, the
Srs2 antirecombination helicase. The biological significance of this mechanism is
indicated by a complete suppression of the ionizing radiation sensitivity of
rad55 or rad57 mutants by concomitant deletion of SRS2, as expected for
biological antagonists. We propose that the Rad51 presynaptic filament is a
meta-stable reversible intermediate, whose assembly and disassembly is governed
by the balance between Rad55-Rad57 and Srs2, providing a key regulatory mechanism
controlling the initiation of homologous recombination. These data provide a
paradigm for the potential function of the human RAD51 paralogues, which are
known to be involved in cancer predisposition and human disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10522 
PMCID: PMC3213327
PMID: 22020281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;480(7376):259-63. doi: 10.1038/nature10547.

The endonuclease activity of Mili fuels piRNA amplification that silences LINE1
elements.

De Fazio S(1), Bartonicek N, Di Giacomo M, Abreu-Goodger C, Sankar A, Funaya C,
Antony C, Moreira PN, Enright AJ, O'Carroll D.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Mouse Biology Unit, Via Ramarini 32,
Monterotondo Scalo 00015, Italy.

Piwi proteins and Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) have conserved functions in
transposon silencing. The murine Piwi proteins Mili and Miwi2 (also called Piwil2
and Piwil4, respectively) direct epigenetic LINE1 and intracisternal A particle
transposon silencing during genome reprogramming in the embryonic male germ line.
Piwi proteins are proposed to be piRNA-guided endonucleases that initiate
secondary piRNA biogenesis; however, the actual contribution of their
endonuclease activities to piRNA biogenesis and transposon silencing remain
unknown. To investigate the role of Piwi-catalysed endonucleolytic activity, we
engineered point mutations in mice that substitute the second aspartic acid to an
alanine in the DDH catalytic triad of Mili and Miwi2, generating the Mili(DAH)
and Miwi2(DAH) alleles, respectively. Analysis of Mili-bound piRNAs from
homozygous Mili(DAH) fetal gonadocytes revealed a failure of transposon piRNA
amplification, resulting in the marked reduction of piRNA bound within Miwi2
ribonuclear particles. We find that Mili-mediated piRNA amplification is
selectively required for LINE1, but not intracisternal A particle, silencing. The
defective piRNA pathway in Mili(DAH) mice results in spermatogenic failure and
sterility. Surprisingly, homozygous Miwi2(DAH) mice are fertile, transposon
silencing is established normally and no defects in secondary piRNA biogenesis
are observed. In addition, the hallmarks of piRNA amplification are observed in
Miwi2-deficient gonadocytes. We conclude that cycles of intra-Mili secondary
piRNA biogenesis fuel piRNA amplification that is absolutely required for LINE1
silencing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10547 
PMID: 22020280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;479(7373):415-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10534.

Homeostatic response to hypoxia is regulated by the N-end rule pathway in plants.

Gibbs DJ(1), Lee SC, Isa NM, Gramuglia S, Fukao T, Bassel GW, Correia CS,
Corbineau F, Theodoulou FL, Bailey-Serres J, Holdsworth MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plant and Crop Sciences, School of Biosciences and Centre for
Plant Integrative Biology, University of Nottingham, Loughborough LE12 5RD, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Dec;12(12):770.

Plants and animals are obligate aerobes, requiring oxygen for mitochondrial
respiration and energy production. In plants, an unanticipated decline in oxygen 
availability (hypoxia), as caused by roots becoming waterlogged or foliage
submergence, triggers changes in gene transcription and messenger RNA translation
that promote anaerobic metabolism and thus sustain substrate-level ATP
production. In contrast to animals, oxygen sensing has not been ascribed to a
mechanism of gene regulation in response to oxygen deprivation in plants. Here we
show that the N-end rule pathway of targeted proteolysis acts as a homeostatic
sensor of severe low oxygen levels in Arabidopsis, through its regulation of key 
hypoxia-response transcription factors. We found that plants lacking components
of the N-end rule pathway constitutively express core hypoxia-response genes and 
are more tolerant of hypoxic stress. We identify the hypoxia-associated ethylene 
response factor group VII transcription factors of Arabidopsis as substrates of
this pathway. Regulation of these proteins by the N-end rule pathway occurs
through a characteristic conserved motif at the amino terminus initiating with
Met-Cys. Enhanced stability of one of these proteins, HRE2, under low oxygen
conditions improves hypoxia survival and reveals a molecular mechanism for oxygen
sensing in plants via the evolutionarily conserved N-end rule pathway. SUB1A-1, a
major determinant of submergence tolerance in rice, was shown not to be a
substrate for the N-end rule pathway despite containing the N-terminal motif,
indicating that it is uncoupled from N-end rule pathway regulation, and that
enhanced stability may relate to the superior tolerance of Sub1 rice varieties to
multiple abiotic stresses.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10534 
PMCID: PMC3223408
PMID: 22020279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 2011 Oct 23;480(7376):273-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10557.

Aspartate 112 is the selectivity filter of the human voltage-gated proton
channel.

Musset B(1), Smith SM, Rajan S, Morgan D, Cherny VV, Decoursey TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics & Physiology, Rush University Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois 60612, USA.

The ion selectivity of pumps and channels is central to their ability to perform 
a multitude of functions. Here we investigate the mechanism of the extraordinary 
selectivity of the human voltage-gated proton channel, H(V)1 (also known as
HVCN1). This selectivity is essential to its ability to regulate reactive oxygen 
species production by leukocytes, histamine secretion by basophils, sperm
capacitation, and airway pH. The most selective ion channel known, H(V)1 shows no
detectable permeability to other ions. Opposing classes of selectivity mechanisms
postulate that (1) a titratable amino acid residue in the permeation pathway
imparts proton selectivity, or (2) water molecules 'frozen' in a narrow pore
conduct protons while excluding other ions. Here we identify aspartate 112 as a
crucial component of the selectivity filter of H(V)1. When a neutral amino acid
replaced Asp 112, the mutant channel lost proton specificity and became
anion-selective or did not conduct. Only the glutamate mutant remained
proton-specific. Mutation of the nearby Asp 185 did not impair proton
selectivity, indicating that Asp 112 has a unique role. Although histidine
shuttles protons in other proteins, when histidine or lysine replaced Asp 112,
the mutant channel was still anion-permeable. Evidently, the proton specificity
of H(V)1 requires an acidic group at the selectivity filter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10557 
PMCID: PMC3237871
PMID: 22020278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):412-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10464.

Evolution of a new enzyme for carbon disulphide conversion by an
acidothermophilic archaeon.

Smeulders MJ(1), Barends TR, Pol A, Scherer A, Zandvoort MH, Udvarhelyi A, Khadem
AF, Menzel A, Hermans J, Shoeman RL, Wessels HJ, van den Heuvel LP, Russ L,
Schlichting I, Jetten MS, Op den Camp HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Radboud University Nijmegen, Heyendaalseweg 135,
6525 AJ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Extremophilic organisms require specialized enzymes for their exotic metabolisms.
Acid-loving thermophilic Archaea that live in the mudpots of volcanic solfataras 
obtain their energy from reduced sulphur compounds such as hydrogen sulphide
(H(2)S) and carbon disulphide (CS(2)). The oxidation of these compounds into
sulphuric acid creates the extremely acidic environment that characterizes
solfataras. The hyperthermophilic Acidianus strain A1-3, which was isolated from 
the fumarolic, ancient sauna building at the Solfatara volcano (Naples, Italy),
was shown to rapidly convert CS(2) into H(2)S and carbon dioxide (CO(2)), but
nothing has been known about the modes of action and the evolution of the
enzyme(s) involved. Here we describe the structure, the proposed mechanism and
evolution of a CS(2) hydrolase from Acidianus A1-3. The enzyme monomer displays a
typical β-carbonic anhydrase fold and active site, yet CO(2) is not one of its
substrates. Owing to large carboxy- and amino-terminal arms, an unusual
hexadecameric catenane oligomer has evolved. This structure results in the
blocking of the entrance to the active site that is found in canonical β-carbonic
anhydrases and the formation of a single 15-Å-long, highly hydrophobic tunnel
that functions as a specificity filter. The tunnel determines the enzyme's
substrate specificity for CS(2), which is hydrophobic. The transposon sequences
that surround the gene encoding this CS(2) hydrolase point to horizontal gene
transfer as a mechanism for its acquisition during evolution. Our results show
how the ancient β-carbonic anhydrase, which is central to global carbon
metabolism, was transformed by divergent evolution into a crucial enzyme in CS(2)
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10464 
PMID: 22012399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):404-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10486.

Inhibition of miR-33a/b in non-human primates raises plasma HDL and lowers VLDL
triglycerides.

Rayner KJ(1), Esau CC, Hussain FN, McDaniel AL, Marshall SM, van Gils JM, Ray TD,
Sheedy FJ, Goedeke L, Liu X, Khatsenko OG, Kaimal V, Lees CJ, Fernandez-Hernando 
C, Fisher EA, Temel RE, Moore KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Marc and Ruti Bell Vascular Biology and Disease Program, Leon H. Charney
Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, New York University School of
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Dec;10(12):899.

Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of mortality in westernized
countries, despite optimum medical therapy to reduce the levels of low-density
lipoprotein (LDL)-associated cholesterol. The pursuit of novel therapies to
target the residual risk has focused on raising the levels of high-density
lipoprotein (HDL)-associated cholesterol in order to exploit its atheroprotective
effects. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as important post-transcriptional
regulators of lipid metabolism and are thus a new class of target for therapeutic
intervention. MicroRNA-33a and microRNA-33b (miR-33a/b) are intronic miRNAs whose
encoding regions are embedded in the sterol-response-element-binding protein
genes SREBF2 and SREBF1 (refs 3-5), respectively. These miRNAs repress expression
of the cholesterol transporter ABCA1, which is a key regulator of HDL biogenesis.
Recent studies in mice suggest that antagonizing miR-33a may be an effective
strategy for raising plasma HDL levels and providing protection against
atherosclerosis; however, extrapolating these findings to humans is complicated
by the fact that mice lack miR-33b, which is present only in the SREBF1 gene of
medium and large mammals. Here we show in African green monkeys that systemic
delivery of an anti-miRNA oligonucleotide that targets both miR-33a and miR-33b
increased hepatic expression of ABCA1 and induced a sustained increase in plasma 
HDL levels over 12 weeks. Notably, miR-33 antagonism in this non-human primate
model also increased the expression of miR-33 target genes involved in fatty acid
oxidation (CROT, CPT1A, HADHB and PRKAA1) and reduced the expression of genes
involved in fatty acid synthesis (SREBF1, FASN, ACLY and ACACA), resulting in a
marked suppression of the plasma levels of very-low-density lipoprotein
(VLDL)-associated triglycerides, a finding that has not previously been observed 
in mice. These data establish, in a model that is highly relevant to humans, that
pharmacological inhibition of miR-33a and miR-33b is a promising therapeutic
strategy to raise plasma HDL and lower VLDL triglyceride levels for the treatment
of dyslipidaemias that increase cardiovascular disease risk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10486 
PMCID: PMC3235584
PMID: 22012398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):399-403. doi: 10.1038/nature10525.

A vascular niche and a VEGF-Nrp1 loop regulate the initiation and stemness of
skin tumours.

Beck B(1), Driessens G, Goossens S, Youssef KK, Kuchnio A, Caauwe A, Sotiropoulou
PA, Loges S, Lapouge G, Candi A, Mascre G, Drogat B, Dekoninck S, Haigh JJ,
Carmeliet P, Blanpain C.

Author information: 
(1)IRIBHM, Université Libre de Bruxelles, 808 route de Lennik, 1070 Brussels,
Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 20;478(7369):329-30.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Dec;11(12):831.

Angiogenesis is critical during tumour initiation and malignant progression.
Different strategies aimed at blocking vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) 
and its receptors have been developed to inhibit angiogenesis in cancer patients.
It has become increasingly clear that in addition to its effect on angiogenesis, 
other mechanisms including a direct effect of VEGF on tumour cells may account
for the efficiency of VEGF-blockade therapies. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been
described in various cancers including squamous tumours of the skin. Here we use 
a mouse model of skin tumours to investigate the impact of the vascular niche and
VEGF signalling on controlling the stemness (the ability to self renew and
differentiate) of squamous skin tumours during the early stages of tumour
progression. We show that CSCs of skin papillomas are localized in a perivascular
niche, in the immediate vicinity of endothelial cells. Furthermore, blocking
VEGFR2 caused tumour regression not only by decreasing the microvascular density,
but also by reducing CSC pool size and impairing CSC renewal properties.
Conditional deletion of Vegfa in tumour epithelial cells caused tumours to
regress, whereas VEGF overexpression by tumour epithelial cells accelerated
tumour growth. In addition to its well-known effect on angiogenesis, VEGF
affected skin tumour growth by promoting cancer stemness and symmetric CSC
division, leading to CSC expansion. Moreover, deletion of neuropilin-1 (Nrp1), a 
VEGF co-receptor expressed in cutaneous CSCs, blocked VEGF's ability to promote
cancer stemness and renewal. Our results identify a dual role for
tumour-cell-derived VEGF in promoting cancer stemness: by stimulating
angiogenesis in a paracrine manner, VEGF creates a perivascular niche for CSCs,
and by directly affecting CSCs through Nrp1 in an autocrine loop, VEGF stimulates
cancer stemness and renewal. Finally, deletion of Nrp1 in normal epidermis
prevents skin tumour initiation. These results may have important implications
for the prevention and treatment of skin cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10525 
PMID: 22012397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):374-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10541.

The role of dyking and fault control in the rapid onset of eruption at Chaitén
volcano, Chile.

Wicks C(1), de la Llera JC, Lara LE, Lowenstern J.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA. cwicks@usgs.gov

Rhyolite is the most viscous of liquid magmas, so it was surprising that on 2 May
2008 at Chaitén Volcano, located in Chile's southern Andean volcanic zone,
rhyolitic magma migrated from more than 5 km depth in less than 4 hours (ref. 1) 
and erupted explosively with only two days of detected precursory seismic
activity. The last major rhyolite eruption before that at Chaitén was the largest
volcanic eruption in the twentieth century, at Novarupta volcano, Alaska, in
1912. Because of the historically rare and explosive nature of rhyolite eruptions
and because of the surprisingly short warning before the eruption of the Chaitén 
volcano, any information about the workings of the magmatic system at Chaitén,
and rhyolitic systems in general, is important from both the scientific and
hazard perspectives. Here we present surface deformation data related to the
Chaitén eruption based on radar interferometry observations from the Japan
Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) DAICHI (ALOS) satellite. The data on this
explosive rhyolite eruption indicate that the rapid ascent of rhyolite occurred
through dyking and that melt segregation and magma storage were controlled by
existing faults.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10541 
PMID: 22012396 


163. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):369-73. doi: 10.1038/nature10511.

Aerobic bacterial pyrite oxidation and acid rock drainage during the Great
Oxidation Event.

Konhauser KO(1), Lalonde SV, Planavsky NJ, Pecoits E, Lyons TW, Mojzsis SJ,
Rouxel OJ, Barley ME, Rosìere C, Fralick PW, Kump LR, Bekker A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth & Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta T6G 2E3, Canada. kurtk@ualberta.ca

The enrichment of redox-sensitive trace metals in ancient marine sedimentary
rocks has been used to determine the timing of the oxidation of the Earth's land 
surface. Chromium (Cr) is among the emerging proxies for tracking the effects of 
atmospheric oxygenation on continental weathering; this is because its supply to 
the oceans is dominated by terrestrial processes that can be recorded in the Cr
isotope composition of Precambrian iron formations. However, the factors
controlling past and present seawater Cr isotope composition are poorly
understood. Here we provide an independent and complementary record of marine Cr 
supply, in the form of Cr concentrations and authigenic enrichment in iron-rich
sedimentary rocks. Our data suggest that Cr was largely immobile on land until
around 2.48 Gyr ago, but within the 160 Myr that followed--and synchronous with
independent evidence for oxygenation associated with the Great Oxidation Event
(see, for example, refs 4-6)--marked excursions in Cr content and Cr/Ti ratios
indicate that Cr was solubilized at a scale unrivalled in history. As Cr isotope 
fractionations at that time were muted, Cr must have been mobilized predominantly
in reduced, Cr(III), form. We demonstrate that only the oxidation of an abundant 
and previously stable crustal pyrite reservoir by aerobic-respiring,
chemolithoautotrophic bacteria could have generated the degree of acidity
required to solubilize Cr(III) from ultramafic source rocks and residual soils.
This profound shift in weathering regimes beginning at 2.48 Gyr ago constitutes
the earliest known geochemical evidence for acidophilic aerobes and the resulting
acid rock drainage, and accounts for independent evidence of an increased supply 
of dissolved sulphate and sulphide-hosted trace elements to the oceans around
that time. Our model adds to amassing evidence that the
Archaean-Palaeoproterozoic boundary was marked by a substantial shift in
terrestrial geochemistry and biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10511 
PMID: 22012395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):364-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10513.

Biomimetic self-templating supramolecular structures.

Chung WJ(1), Oh JW, Kwak K, Lee BY, Meyer J, Wang E, Hexemer A, Lee SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 20;478(7369):330-1.

In nature, helical macromolecules such as collagen, chitin and cellulose are
critical to the morphogenesis and functionality of various hierarchically
structured materials. During tissue formation, these chiral macromolecules are
secreted and undergo self-templating assembly, a process whereby multiple kinetic
factors influence the assembly of the incoming building blocks to produce
non-equilibrium structures. A single macromolecule can form diverse functional
structures when self-templated under different conditions. Collagen type I, for
instance, forms transparent corneal tissues from orthogonally aligned nematic
fibres, distinctively coloured skin tissues from cholesteric phase fibre bundles,
and mineralized tissues from hierarchically organized fibres. Nature's
self-templated materials surpass the functional and structural complexity
achievable by current top-down and bottom-up fabrication methods. However,
self-templating has not been thoroughly explored for engineering synthetic
materials. Here we demonstrate the biomimetic, self-templating assembly of chiral
colloidal particles (M13 phage) into functional materials. A single-step process 
produces long-range-ordered, supramolecular films showing multiple levels of
hierarchical organization and helical twist. Three distinct supramolecular
structures are created by this approach: nematic orthogonal twists, cholesteric
helical ribbons and smectic helicolidal nanofilaments. Both chiral liquid
crystalline phase transitions and competing interfacial forces at the interface
are found to be critical factors in determining the morphology of the templated
structures during assembly. The resulting materials show distinctive optical and 
photonic properties, functioning as chiral reflector/filters and structural
colour matrices. In addition, M13 phages with genetically incorporated bioactive 
peptide ligands direct both soft and hard tissue growth in a hierarchically
organized manner. Our assembly approach provides insight into the complexities of
hierarchical assembly in nature and could be expanded to other chiral molecules
to engineer sophisticated functional helical-twisted structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10513 
PMID: 22012394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):356-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10512.

A mass transfer origin for blue stragglers in NGC 188 as revealed by
half-solar-mass companions.

Geller AM(1), Mathieu RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Wisconsin 53706,
USA. a-geller@northwestern.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 20;478(7369):331-2.

In open star clusters, where all members formed at about the same time, blue
straggler stars are typically observed to be brighter and bluer than
hydrogen-burning main-sequence stars, and therefore should already have evolved
into giant stars and stellar remnants. Correlations between blue straggler
frequency and cluster binary star fraction, core mass and radial position suggest
that mass transfer or mergers in binary stars dominates the production of blue
stragglers in open clusters. Analytic models, detailed observations and
sophisticated N-body simulations, however, argue in favour of stellar collisions.
Here we report that the blue stragglers in long-period binaries in the old
(7 × 10(9)-year) open cluster NGC 188 have companions with masses of about half a
solar mass, with a surprisingly narrow mass distribution. This conclusively rules
out a collisional origin, as the collision hypothesis predicts a companion mass
distribution with significantly higher masses. Mergers in hierarchical triple
stars are marginally permitted by the data, but the observations do not favour
this hypothesis. The data are highly consistent with a mass transfer origin for
the long-period blue straggler binaries in NGC 188, in which the companions would
be white dwarfs of about half a solar mass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10512 
PMID: 22012393 


166. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7369):343-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10532.

The evolution of gene expression levels in mammalian organs.

Brawand D(1), Soumillon M, Necsulea A, Julien P, Csárdi G, Harrigan P, Weier M,
Liechti A, Aximu-Petri A, Kircher M, Albert FW, Zeller U, Khaitovich P, Grützner 
F, Bergmann S, Nielsen R, Pääbo S, Kaessmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Changes in gene expression are thought to underlie many of the phenotypic
differences between species. However, large-scale analyses of gene expression
evolution were until recently prevented by technological limitations. Here we
report the sequencing of polyadenylated RNA from six organs across ten species
that represent all major mammalian lineages (placentals, marsupials and
monotremes) and birds (the evolutionary outgroup), with the goal of understanding
the dynamics of mammalian transcriptome evolution. We show that the rate of gene 
expression evolution varies among organs, lineages and chromosomes, owing to
differences in selective pressures: transcriptome change was slow in nervous
tissues and rapid in testes, slower in rodents than in apes and monotremes, and
rapid for the X chromosome right after its formation. Although gene expression
evolution in mammals was strongly shaped by purifying selection, we identify
numerous potentially selectively driven expression switches, which occurred at
different rates across lineages and tissues and which probably contributed to the
specific organ biology of various mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10532 
PMID: 22012392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;479(7371):113-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10514.

Verbal and non-verbal intelligence changes in the teenage brain.

Ramsden S(1), Richardson FM, Josse G, Thomas MS, Ellis C, Shakeshaft C, Seghier
ML, Price CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, London WC1N
3BG, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):666.

Intelligence quotient (IQ) is a standardized measure of human intellectual
capacity that takes into account a wide range of cognitive skills. IQ is
generally considered to be stable across the lifespan, with scores at one time
point used to predict educational achievement and employment prospects in later
years. Neuroimaging allows us to test whether unexpected longitudinal
fluctuations in measured IQ are related to brain development. Here we show that
verbal and non-verbal IQ can rise or fall in the teenage years, with these
changes in performance validated by their close correlation with changes in local
brain structure. A combination of structural and functional imaging showed that
verbal IQ changed with grey matter in a region that was activated by speech,
whereas non-verbal IQ changed with grey matter in a region that was activated by 
finger movements. By using longitudinal assessments of the same individuals, we
obviated the many sources of variation in brain structure that confound
cross-sectional studies. This allowed us to dissociate neural markers for the two
types of IQ and to show that general verbal and non-verbal abilities are closely 
linked to the sensorimotor skills involved in learning. More generally, our
results emphasize the possibility that an individual's intellectual capacity
relative to their peers can decrease or increase in the teenage years. This would
be encouraging to those whose intellectual potential may improve, and would be a 
warning that early achievers may not maintain their potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10514 
PMCID: PMC3672949
PMID: 22012265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;479(7371):61-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10538.

Motor antagonism exposed by spatial segregation and timing of neurogenesis.

Tripodi M(1), Stepien AE, Arber S.

Author information: 
(1)Biozentrum, Department of Cell Biology, University of Basel, 4056 Basel,
Switzerland.

Walking is a key motor behaviour of limbed animals, executed by contraction of
functionally antagonistic muscle groups during swing and stance phases.
Nevertheless, neuronal circuits regulating the activation of antagonistic
extensor-flexor muscles remain poorly understood. Here we use monosynaptically
restricted trans-synaptic viruses to elucidate premotor anatomical substrates for
extensor-flexor control in mice. We observe a medio-lateral spatial segregation
between extensor and flexor premotor interneurons in the dorsal spinal cord.
These premotor interneuron populations are derived from common progenitor
domains, but segregate by timing of neurogenesis. We find that proprioceptive
sensory feedback from the periphery is targeted to medial extensor premotor
populations and is required for extensor-specific connectivity profiles during
development. Our findings provide evidence for a discriminating anatomical basis 
of antagonistic circuits at the level of premotor interneurons, and point to
synaptic input and developmental ontogeny as key factors in the establishment of 
circuits regulating motor behavioural dichotomy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10538 
PMID: 22012263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;478(7370):490-2. doi: 10.1038/nature10520.

Kelvin-Helmholtz instabilities as the source of inhomogeneous mixing in nova
explosions.

Casanova J(1), José J, García-Berro E, Shore SN, Calder AC.

Author information: 
(1)Departament de Física i Enginyeria Nuclear, EUETIB, Universitat Politècnica de
Catalunya, E-08036 Barcelona, Spain.

Classical novae are thermonuclear explosions in binary stellar systems containing
a white dwarf accreting material from a close companion star. They repeatedly
eject 10(-4)-10(-5) solar masses of nucleosynthetically enriched gas into the
interstellar medium, recurring on intervals of decades to tens of millennia. They
are probably the main sources of Galactic (15)N, (17)O and (13)C. The origin of
the large enhancements and inhomogeneous distribution of these species observed
in high-resolution spectra of ejected nova shells has, however, remained
unexplained for almost half a century. Several mechanisms, including mixing by
diffusion, shear or resonant gravity waves, have been proposed in the framework
of one-dimensional or two-dimensional simulations, but none has hitherto proven
successful because convective mixing can only be modelled accurately in three
dimensions. Here we report the results of a three-dimensional
nuclear-hydrodynamic simulation of mixing at the core-envelope interface during
nova outbursts. We show that buoyant fingering drives vortices from the
Kelvin-Helmholtz instability, which inevitably enriches the accreted envelope
with material from the outer white-dwarf core. Such mixing also naturally
produces large-scale chemical inhomogeneities. Both the metallicity enhancement
and the intrinsic dispersions in the abundances are consistent with the observed 
values.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10520 
PMID: 22012262 


170. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;479(7374):517-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10548.

Changes in plant community composition lag behind climate warming in lowland
forests.

Bertrand R(1), Lenoir J, Piedallu C, Riofrío-Dillon G, de Ruffray P, Vidal C,
Pierrat JC, Gégout JC.

Author information: 
(1)AgroParisTech, ENGREF, UMR1092 Laboratoire d'Étude des Ressources Forêt-Bois
(LERFoB), 14 rue Girardet, F-54000 Nancy, France.
romain.bertrand@engref.agroparistech.fr

Climate change is driving latitudinal and altitudinal shifts in species
distribution worldwide, leading to novel species assemblages. Lags between these 
biotic responses and contemporary climate changes have been reported for plants
and animals. Theoretically, the magnitude of these lags should be greatest in
lowland areas, where the velocity of climate change is expected to be much
greater than that in highland areas. We compared temperature trends to
temperatures reconstructed from plant assemblages (observed in 76,634 surveys)
over a 44-year period in France (1965-2008). Here we report that forest plant
communities had responded to 0.54 °C of the effective increase of 1.07 °C in
highland areas (500-2,600 m above sea level), while they had responded to only
0.02 °C of the 1.11 °C warming trend in lowland areas. There was a larger
temperature lag (by 3.1 times) between the climate and plant community
composition in lowland forests than in highland forests. The explanation of such 
disparity lies in the following properties of lowland, as compared to highland,
forests: the higher proportion of species with greater ability for local
persistence as the climate warms, the reduced opportunity for short-distance
escapes, and the greater habitat fragmentation. Although mountains are currently 
considered to be among the ecosystems most threatened by climate change (owing to
mountaintop extinction), the current inertia of plant communities in lowland
forests should also be noted, as it could lead to lowland biotic attrition.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10548 
PMID: 22012261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;479(7373):393-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10516.

Multiple routes to mammalian diversity.

Venditti C(1), Meade A, Pagel M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Hull, Hull HU6 7RX, UK.
c.venditti@hull.ac.uk

The radiation of the mammals provides a 165-million-year test case for
evolutionary theories of how species occupy and then fill ecological niches. It
is widely assumed that species often diverge rapidly early in their evolution,
and that this is followed by a longer, drawn-out period of slower evolutionary
fine-tuning as natural selection fits organisms into an increasingly occupied
niche space. But recent studies have hinted that the process may not be so
simple. Here we apply statistical methods that automatically detect temporal
shifts in the rate of evolution through time to a comprehensive mammalian
phylogeny and data set of body sizes of 3,185 extant species. Unexpectedly, the
majority of mammal species, including two of the most speciose orders (Rodentia
and Chiroptera), have no history of substantial and sustained increases in the
rates of evolution. Instead, a subset of the mammals has experienced an explosive
increase (between 10- and 52-fold) in the rate of evolution along the single
branch leading to the common ancestor of their monophyletic group (for example
Chiroptera), followed by a quick return to lower or background levels. The
remaining species are a taxonomically diverse assemblage showing a significant,
sustained increase or decrease in their rates of evolution. These results
necessarily decouple morphological diversification from speciation and suggest
that the processes that give rise to the morphological diversity of a class of
animals are far more free to vary than previously considered. Niches do not seem 
to fill up, and diversity seems to arise whenever, wherever and at whatever rate 
it is advantageous.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10516 
PMID: 22012260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;480(7375):94-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10539.

A SUMOylation-defective MITF germline mutation predisposes to melanoma and renal 
carcinoma.

Bertolotto C(1), Lesueur F, Giuliano S, Strub T, de Lichy M, Bille K, Dessen P,
d'Hayer B, Mohamdi H, Remenieras A, Maubec E, de la Fouchardière A, Molinié V,
Vabres P, Dalle S, Poulalhon N, Martin-Denavit T, Thomas L, Andry-Benzaquen P,
Dupin N, Boitier F, Rossi A, Perrot JL, Labeille B, Robert C, Escudier B, Caron
O, Brugières L, Saule S, Gardie B, Gad S, Richard S, Couturier J, Teh BT, Ghiorzo
P, Pastorino L, Puig S, Badenas C, Olsson H, Ingvar C, Rouleau E, Lidereau R,
Bahadoran P, Vielh P, Corda E, Blanché H, Zelenika D, Galan P; French Familial
Melanoma Study Group, Aubin F, Bachollet B, Becuwe C, Berthet P, Bignon YJ,
Bonadona V, Bonafe JL, Bonnet-Dupeyron MN, Cambazard F, Chevrant-Breton J,
Coupier I, Dalac S, Demange L, d'Incan M, Dugast C, Faivre L, Vincent-Fétita L,
Gauthier-Villars M, Gilbert B, Grange F, Grob JJ, Humbert P, Janin N, Joly P,
Kerob D, Lasset C, Leroux D, Levang J, Limacher JM, Livideanu C, Longy M,
Lortholary A, Stoppa-Lyonnet D, Mansard S, Mansuy L, Marrou K, Matéus C, Maugard 
C, Meyer N, Nogues C, Souteyrand P, Venat-Bouvet L, Zattara H, Chaudru V, Lenoir 
GM, Lathrop M, Davidson I, Avril MF, Demenais F, Ballotti R, Bressac-de
Paillerets B.

Author information: 
(1)1] INSERM, U895 (équipe 1), Equipe labélisée Ligue Contre le Cancer, C3M,
06204 Nice, France [2] Université of Nice Sophia-Antipolis, UFR Médecine, 06204
Nice, France [3] Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Service de
Dermatologie, 06204 Nice, France [4].

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 Mar 3;531(7592):126.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2011 Dec;24(6):1079-80.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Jan;12(1):1.

So far, no common environmental and/or phenotypic factor has been associated with
melanoma and renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The known risk factors for melanoma
include sun exposure, pigmentation and nevus phenotypes; risk factors associated 
with RCC include smoking, obesity and hypertension. A recent study of coexisting 
melanoma and RCC in the same patients supports a genetic predisposition
underlying the association between these two cancers. The
microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) has been proposed to act as
a melanoma oncogene; it also stimulates the transcription of hypoxia inducible
factor (HIF1A), the pathway of which is targeted by kidney cancer susceptibility 
genes. We therefore proposed that MITF might have a role in conferring a genetic 
predisposition to co-occurring melanoma and RCC. Here we identify a germline
missense substitution in MITF (Mi-E318K) that occurred at a significantly higher 
frequency in genetically enriched patients affected with melanoma, RCC or both
cancers, when compared with controls. Overall, Mi-E318K carriers had a higher
than fivefold increased risk of developing melanoma, RCC or both cancers. Codon
318 is located in a small-ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) consensus site (ΨKXE)
and Mi-E318K severely impaired SUMOylation of MITF. Mi-E318K enhanced MITF
protein binding to the HIF1A promoter and increased its transcriptional activity 
compared to wild-type MITF. Further, we observed a global increase in
Mi-E318K-occupied loci. In an RCC cell line, gene expression profiling identified
a Mi-E318K signature related to cell growth, proliferation and inflammation.
Lastly, the mutant protein enhanced melanocytic and renal cell clonogenicity,
migration and invasion, consistent with a gain-of-function role in tumorigenesis.
Our data provide insights into the link between SUMOylation, transcription and
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10539 
PMID: 22012259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Nature. 2011 Oct 19;479(7373):365-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10572.

Transgenerational epigenetic inheritance of longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Greer EL(1), Maures TJ, Ucar D, Hauswirth AG, Mancini E, Lim JP, Benayoun BA, Shi
Y, Brunet A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Jan 4;15(1):6-7.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 17;479(7373):302-3.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Dec;12(12):806-7.

Chromatin modifiers regulate lifespan in several organisms, raising the question 
of whether changes in chromatin states in the parental generation could be
incompletely reprogrammed in the next generation and thereby affect the lifespan 
of descendants. The histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) complex,
composed of ASH-2, WDR-5 and the histone methyltransferase SET-2, regulates
Caenorhabditis elegans lifespan. Here we show that deficiencies in the H3K4me3
chromatin modifiers ASH-2, WDR-5 or SET-2 in the parental generation extend the
lifespan of descendants up until the third generation. The transgenerational
inheritance of lifespan extension by members of the ASH-2 complex is dependent on
the H3K4me3 demethylase RBR-2, and requires the presence of a functioning
germline in the descendants. Transgenerational inheritance of lifespan is
specific for the H3K4me3 methylation complex and is associated with epigenetic
changes in gene expression. Thus, manipulation of specific chromatin modifiers
only in parents can induce an epigenetic memory of longevity in descendants.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10572 
PMCID: PMC3368121
PMID: 22012258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7371):117-21. doi: 10.1038/nature10558.

Non-canonical inflammasome activation targets caspase-11.

Kayagaki N(1), Warming S, Lamkanfi M, Vande Walle L, Louie S, Dong J, Newton K,
Qu Y, Liu J, Heldens S, Zhang J, Lee WP, Roose-Girma M, Dixit VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA. kayagaki@gene.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 3;479(7371):48-50.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Dec;11(12):801.

Caspase-1 activation by inflammasome scaffolds comprised of intracellular
nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptors (NLRs) and the
adaptor ASC is believed to be essential for production of the pro-inflammatory
cytokines interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18 during the innate immune response. Here
we show, with C57BL/6 Casp11 gene-targeted mice, that caspase-11 (also known as
caspase-4) is critical for caspase-1 activation and IL-1β production in
macrophages infected with Escherichia coli, Citrobacter rodentium or Vibrio
cholerae. Strain 129 mice, like Casp11(-/-) mice, exhibited defects in IL-1β
production and harboured a mutation in the Casp11 locus that attenuated
caspase-11 expression. This finding is important because published targeting of
the Casp1 gene was done using strain 129 embryonic stem cells. Casp1 and Casp11
are too close in the genome to be segregated by recombination; consequently, the 
published Casp1(-/-) mice lack both caspase-11 and caspase-1. Interestingly,
Casp11(-/-) macrophages secreted IL-1β normally in response to ATP and monosodium
urate, indicating that caspase-11 is engaged by a non-canonical inflammasome.
Casp1(-/-)Casp11(129mt/129mt) macrophages expressing caspase-11 from a C57BL/6
bacterial artificial chromosome transgene failed to secrete IL-1β regardless of
stimulus, confirming an essential role for caspase-1 in IL-1β production.
Caspase-11 rather than caspase-1, however, was required for non-canonical
inflammasome-triggered macrophage cell death, indicating that caspase-11
orchestrates both caspase-1-dependent and -independent outputs. Caspase-1
activation by non-canonical stimuli required NLRP3 and ASC, but caspase-11
processing and cell death did not, implying that there is a distinct activator of
caspase-11. Lastly, loss of caspase-11 rather than caspase-1 protected mice from 
a lethal dose of lipopolysaccharide. These data highlight a unique
pro-inflammatory role for caspase-11 in the innate immune response to clinically 
significant bacterial infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10558 
PMID: 22002608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7372):253-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10504.

Structural basis for a [4Fe-3S] cluster in the oxygen-tolerant membrane-bound
[NiFe]-hydrogenase.

Shomura Y(1), Yoon KS, Nishihara H, Higuchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Graduate School of Life Science, University of
Hyogo, 3-2-1 Koto, Kamigori-cho, Ako-gun, Hyogo 678-1297, Japan.

Membrane-bound respiratory [NiFe]-hydrogenase (MBH), a H(2)-uptake enzyme found
in the periplasmic space of bacteria, catalyses the oxidation of dihydrogen:
H(2) → 2H(+) + 2e(-) (ref. 1). In contrast to the well-studied O(2)-sensitive
[NiFe]-hydrogenases (referred to as the standard enzymes), MBH has an
O(2)-tolerant H(2) oxidation activity; however, the mechanism of O(2) tolerance
is unclear. Here we report the crystal structures of Hydrogenovibrio marinus MBH 
in three different redox conditions at resolutions between 1.18 and 1.32 Å. We
find that the proximal iron-sulphur (Fe-S) cluster of MBH has a [4Fe-3S]
structure coordinated by six cysteine residues--in contrast to the [4Fe-4S]
cubane structure coordinated by four cysteine residues found in the proximal Fe-S
cluster of the standard enzymes--and that an amide nitrogen of the polypeptide
backbone is deprotonated and additionally coordinates the cluster when chemically
oxidized, thus stabilizing the superoxidized state of the cluster. The structure 
of MBH is very similar to that of the O(2)-sensitive standard enzymes except for 
the proximal Fe-S cluster. Our results give a reasonable explanation why the O(2)
tolerance of MBH is attributable to the unique proximal Fe-S cluster; we propose 
that the cluster is not only a component of the electron transfer for the
catalytic cycle, but that it also donates two electrons and one proton crucial
for the appropriate reduction of O(2) in preventing the formation of an unready, 
inactive state of the enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10504 
PMID: 22002607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7372):249-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10505.

The crystal structure of an oxygen-tolerant hydrogenase uncovers a novel
iron-sulphur centre.

Fritsch J(1), Scheerer P, Frielingsdorf S, Kroschinsky S, Friedrich B, Lenz O,
Spahn CM.

Author information: 
(1)Mikrobiologie, Institut für Biologie, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin,
Chausseestraße 117, 10115 Berlin, Germany.

Hydrogenases are abundant enzymes that catalyse the reversible interconversion of
H(2) into protons and electrons at high rates. Those hydrogenases maintaining
their activity in the presence of O(2) are considered to be central to H(2)-based
technologies, such as enzymatic fuel cells and for light-driven H(2) production. 
Despite comprehensive genetic, biochemical, electrochemical and spectroscopic
investigations, the molecular background allowing a structural interpretation of 
how the catalytic centre is protected from irreversible inactivation by O(2) has 
remained unclear. Here we present the crystal structure of an O(2)-tolerant
[NiFe]-hydrogenase from the aerobic H(2) oxidizer Ralstonia eutropha H16 at 1.5 Å
resolution. The heterodimeric enzyme consists of a large subunit harbouring the
catalytic centre in the H(2)-reduced state and a small subunit containing an
electron relay consisting of three different iron-sulphur clusters. The cluster
proximal to the active site displays an unprecedented [4Fe-3S] structure and is
coordinated by six cysteines. According to the current model, this cofactor
operates as an electronic switch depending on the nature of the gas molecule
approaching the active site. It serves as an electron acceptor in the course of
H(2) oxidation and as an electron-delivering device upon O(2) attack at the
active site. This dual function is supported by the capability of the novel
iron-sulphur cluster to adopt three redox states at physiological redox
potentials. The second structural feature is a network of extended water cavities
that may act as a channel facilitating the removal of water produced at the
[NiFe] active site. These discoveries will have an impact on the design of
biological and chemical H(2)-converting catalysts that are capable of cycling
H(2) in air.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10505 
PMID: 22002606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7372):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10515.

Bidirectional resection of DNA double-strand breaks by Mre11 and Exo1.

Garcia V(1), Phelps SE, Gray S, Neale MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Genome Damage and Stability Centre, The University of Sussex, Brighton, BN1
9RQ, UK.

Repair of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by homologous recombination requires
resection of 5'-termini to generate 3'-single-strand DNA tails. Key components of
this reaction are exonuclease 1 and the bifunctional endo/exonuclease, Mre11
(refs 2-4). Mre11 endonuclease activity is critical when DSB termini are blocked 
by bound protein--such as by the DNA end-joining complex, topoisomerases or the
meiotic transesterase Spo11 (refs 7-13)--but a specific function for the Mre11
3'-5' exonuclease activity has remained elusive. Here we use Saccharomyces
cerevisiae to reveal a role for the Mre11 exonuclease during the resection of
Spo11-linked 5'-DNA termini in vivo. We show that the residual resection observed
in Exo1-mutant cells is dependent on Mre11, and that both exonuclease activities 
are required for efficient DSB repair. Previous work has indicated that resection
traverses unidirectionally. Using a combination of physical assays for 5'-end
processing, our results indicate an alternative mechanism involving bidirectional
resection. First, Mre11 nicks the strand to be resected up to 300 nucleotides
from the 5'-terminus of the DSB--much further away than previously assumed.
Second, this nick enables resection in a bidirectional manner, using Exo1 in the 
5'-3' direction away from the DSB, and Mre11 in the 3'-5' direction towards the
DSB end. Mre11 exonuclease activity also confers resistance to DNA damage in
cycling cells, suggesting that Mre11-catalysed resection may be a general feature
of various DNA repair pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10515 
PMCID: PMC3214165
PMID: 22002605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7371):135-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10501.

RNAi promotes heterochromatic silencing through replication-coupled release of
RNA Pol II.

Zaratiegui M(1), Castel SE, Irvine DV, Kloc A, Ren J, Li F, de Castro E, Marín L,
Chang AY, Goto D, Cande WZ, Antequera F, Arcangioli B, Martienssen RA.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.

Heterochromatin comprises tightly compacted repetitive regions of eukaryotic
chromosomes. The inheritance of heterochromatin through mitosis requires RNA
interference (RNAi), which guides histone modification during the DNA replication
phase of the cell cycle. Here we show that the alternating arrangement of origins
of replication and non-coding RNA in pericentromeric heterochromatin results in
competition between transcription and replication in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
Co-transcriptional RNAi releases RNA polymerase II (Pol II), allowing completion 
of DNA replication by the leading strand DNA polymerase, and associated histone
modifying enzymes that spread heterochromatin with the replication fork. In the
absence of RNAi, stalled forks are repaired by homologous recombination without
histone modification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10501 
PMCID: PMC3391703
PMID: 22002604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7372):237-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10508.

ATM controls meiotic double-strand-break formation.

Lange J(1), Pan J, Cole F, Thelen MP, Jasin M, Keeney S.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

In many organisms, developmentally programmed double-strand breaks (DSBs) formed 
by the SPO11 transesterase initiate meiotic recombination, which promotes pairing
and segregation of homologous chromosomes. Because every chromosome must receive 
a minimum number of DSBs, attention has focused on factors that support DSB
formation. However, improperly repaired DSBs can cause meiotic arrest or
mutation; thus, having too many DSBs is probably as deleterious as having too
few. Only a small fraction of SPO11 protein ever makes a DSB in yeast or mouse
and SPO11 and its accessory factors remain abundant long after most DSB formation
ceases, implying the existence of mechanisms that restrain SPO11 activity to
limit DSB numbers. Here we report that the number of meiotic DSBs in mouse is
controlled by ATM, a kinase activated by DNA damage to trigger checkpoint
signalling and promote DSB repair. Levels of SPO11-oligonucleotide complexes,
by-products of meiotic DSB formation, are elevated at least tenfold in
spermatocytes lacking ATM. Moreover, Atm mutation renders SPO11-oligonucleotide
levels sensitive to genetic manipulations that modulate SPO11 protein levels. We 
propose that ATM restrains SPO11 via a negative feedback loop in which kinase
activation by DSBs suppresses further DSB formation. Our findings explain
previously puzzling phenotypes of Atm-null mice and provide a molecular basis for
the gonadal dysgenesis observed in ataxia telangiectasia, the human syndrome
caused by ATM deficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10508 
PMCID: PMC3213282
PMID: 22002603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 2011 Oct 16;479(7373):428-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10506.

Temperature-scan cryocrystallography reveals reaction intermediates in
bacteriophytochrome.

Yang X(1), Ren Z, Kuk J, Moffat K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Chicago,
929 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. xiaojingyang@uchicago.edu

Light is a fundamental signal that regulates important physiological processes
such as development and circadian rhythm in living organisms. Phytochromes form a
major family of photoreceptors responsible for red light perception in plants,
fungi and bacteria. They undergo reversible photoconversion between red-absorbing
(Pr) and far-red-absorbing (Pfr) states, thereby ultimately converting a light
signal into a distinct biological signal that mediates subsequent cellular
responses. Several structures of microbial phytochromes have been determined in
their dark-adapted Pr or Pfr states. However, the structural nature of initial
photochemical events has not been characterized by crystallography. Here we
report the crystal structures of three intermediates in the photoreaction of
Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteriophytochrome (PaBphP). We used cryotrapping
crystallography to capture intermediates, and followed structural changes by
scanning the temperature at which the photoreaction proceeded. Light-induced
conformational changes in PaBphP originate in ring D of the biliverdin (BV)
chromophore, and E-to-Z isomerization about the C(15) = C(16) double bond between
rings C and D is the initial photochemical event. As the chromophore relaxes, the
twist of the C(15) methine bridge about its two dihedral angles is reversed.
Structural changes extend further to rings B and A, and to the surrounding
protein regions. These data indicate that absorption of a photon by the Pfr state
of PaBphP converts a light signal into a structural signal via twisting and
untwisting of the methine bridges in the linear tetrapyrrole within the confined 
protein cavity.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10506 
PMCID: PMC3337037
PMID: 22002602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10427.

S-nitrosylation of NADPH oxidase regulates cell death in plant immunity.

Yun BW(1), Feechan A, Yin M, Saidi NB, Le Bihan T, Yu M, Moore JW, Kang JG, Kwon 
E, Spoel SH, Pallas JA, Loake GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Plant Sciences, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Edinburgh, King's Buildings, Edinburgh EH9 3JH, UK.

Changes in redox status are a conspicuous feature of immune responses in a
variety of eukaryotes, but the associated signalling mechanisms are not well
understood. In plants, attempted microbial infection triggers the rapid synthesis
of nitric oxide and a parallel accumulation of reactive oxygen intermediates, the
latter generated by NADPH oxidases related to those responsible for the
pathogen-activated respiratory burst in phagocytes. Both nitric oxide and
reactive oxygen intermediates have been implicated in controlling the
hypersensitive response, a programmed execution of plant cells at sites of
attempted infection. However, the molecular mechanisms that underpin their
function and coordinate their synthesis are unknown. Here we show genetic
evidence that increases in cysteine thiols modified using nitric oxide, termed
S-nitrosothiols, facilitate the hypersensitive response in the absence of the
cell death agonist salicylic acid and the synthesis of reactive oxygen
intermediates. Surprisingly, when concentrations of S-nitrosothiols were high,
nitric oxide function also governed a negative feedback loop limiting the
hypersensitive response, mediated by S-nitrosylation of the NADPH oxidase,
AtRBOHD, at Cys 890, abolishing its ability to synthesize reactive oxygen
intermediates. Accordingly, mutation of Cys 890 compromised
S-nitrosothiol-mediated control of AtRBOHD activity, perturbing the magnitude of 
cell death development. This cysteine is evolutionarily conserved and
specifically S-nitrosylated in both human and fly NADPH oxidase, suggesting that 
this mechanism may govern immune responses in both plants and animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10427 
PMID: 21964330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7368):229-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10460.

Atmospheric oxygenation caused by a change in volcanic degassing pressure.

Gaillard F(1), Scaillet B, Arndt NT.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans, CNRS-INSU/Université
d'Orléans/Université de Tours, Orléans cedex 2, France. gaillard@cnrs-orleans.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):194-5.
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):E1; discussion E2.

The Precambrian history of our planet is marked by two major events: a pulse of
continental crust formation at the end of the Archaean eon and a weak oxygenation
of the atmosphere (the Great Oxidation Event) that followed, at 2.45 billion
years ago. This oxygenation has been linked to the emergence of oxygenic
cyanobacteria and to changes in the compositions of volcanic gases, but not to
the composition of erupting lavas--geochemical constraints indicate that the
oxidation state of basalts and their mantle sources has remained constant since
3.5 billion years ago. Here we propose that a decrease in the average pressure of
volcanic degassing changed the oxidation state of sulphur in volcanic gases,
initiating the modern biogeochemical sulphur cycle and triggering atmospheric
oxygenation. Using thermodynamic calculations simulating gas-melt equilibria in
erupting magmas, we suggest that mostly submarine Archaean volcanoes produced
gases with SO(2)/H(2)S < 1 and low sulphur content. Emergence of the continents
due to a global decrease in sea level and growth of the continental crust in the 
late Archaean then led to widespread subaerial volcanism, which in turn yielded
gases much richer in sulphur and dominated by SO(2). Dissolution of sulphur in
sea water and the onset of sulphate reduction processes could then oxidize the
atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10460 
PMID: 21993759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7368):225-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10500.

Self-replication of information-bearing nanoscale patterns.

Wang T(1), Sha R, Dreyfus R, Leunissen ME, Maass C, Pine DJ, Chaikin PM, Seeman
NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.

DNA molecules provide what is probably the most iconic example of
self-replication--the ability of a system to replicate, or make copies of,
itself. In living cells the process is mediated by enzymes and occurs
autonomously, with the number of replicas increasing exponentially over time
without the need for external manipulation. Self-replication has also been
implemented with synthetic systems, including RNA enzymes designed to undergo
self-sustained exponential amplification. An exciting next step would be to use
self-replication in materials fabrication, which requires robust and general
systems capable of copying and amplifying functional materials or structures.
Here we report a first development in this direction, using DNA tile motifs that 
can recognize and bind complementary tiles in a pre-programmed fashion. We first 
design tile motifs so they form a seven-tile seed sequence; then use the seeds to
instruct the formation of a first generation of complementary seven-tile daughter
sequences; and finally use the daughters to instruct the formation of seven-tile 
granddaughter sequences that are identical to the initial seed sequences.
Considering that DNA is a functional material that can organize itself and other 
molecules into useful structures, our findings raise the tantalizing prospect
that we may one day be able to realize self-replicating materials with various
patterns or useful functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10500 
PMCID: PMC3192504
PMID: 21993758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7368):221-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10462.

Coherent coupling of a superconducting flux qubit to an electron spin ensemble in
diamond.

Zhu X(1), Saito S, Kemp A, Kakuyanagi K, Karimoto S, Nakano H, Munro WJ, Tokura
Y, Everitt MS, Nemoto K, Kasu M, Mizuochi N, Semba K.

Author information: 
(1)NTT Basic Research Laboratories, NTT Corporation, 3-1 Morinosato-Wakamiya,
Atsugi, Kanagawa 243-0198, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):195-6.

During the past decade, research into superconducting quantum bits (qubits) based
on Josephson junctions has made rapid progress. Many foundational experiments
have been performed, and superconducting qubits are now considered one of the
most promising systems for quantum information processing. However, the
experimentally reported coherence times are likely to be insufficient for future 
large-scale quantum computation. A natural solution to this problem is a
dedicated engineered quantum memory based on atomic and molecular systems. The
question of whether coherent quantum coupling is possible between such natural
systems and a single macroscopic artificial atom has attracted considerable
attention since the first demonstration of macroscopic quantum coherence in
Josephson junction circuits. Here we report evidence of coherent strong coupling 
between a single macroscopic superconducting artificial atom (a flux qubit) and
an ensemble of electron spins in the form of nitrogen-vacancy colour centres in
diamond. Furthermore, we have observed coherent exchange of a single quantum of
energy between a flux qubit and a macroscopic ensemble consisting of about
3 × 10(7) such colour centres. This provides a foundation for future quantum
memories and hybrid devices coupling microwave and optical systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10462 
PMID: 21993757 


185. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7369):349-55. doi: 10.1038/nature10502.

PDGF signalling controls age-dependent proliferation in pancreatic β-cells.

Chen H(1), Gu X, Liu Y, Wang J, Wirt SE, Bottino R, Schorle H, Sage J, Kim SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Determining the signalling pathways that direct tissue expansion is a principal
goal of regenerative biology. Vigorous pancreatic β-cell replication in juvenile 
mice and humans declines with age, and elucidating the basis for this decay may
reveal strategies for inducing β-cell expansion, a long-sought goal for diabetes 
therapy. Here we show that platelet-derived growth factor receptor (Pdgfr)
signalling controls age-dependent β-cell proliferation in mouse and human
pancreatic islets. With age, declining β-cell Pdgfr levels were accompanied by
reductions in β-cell enhancer of zeste homologue 2 (Ezh2) levels and β-cell
replication. Conditional inactivation of the Pdgfra gene in β-cells accelerated
these changes, preventing mouse neonatal β-cell expansion and adult β-cell
regeneration. Targeted human PDGFR-α activation in mouse β-cells stimulated
Erk1/2 phosphorylation, leading to Ezh2-dependent expansion of adult β-cells.
Adult human islets lack PDGF signalling competence, but exposure of juvenile
human islets to PDGF-AA stimulated β-cell proliferation. The discovery of a
conserved pathway controlling age-dependent β-cell proliferation indicates new
strategies for β-cell expansion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10502 
PMCID: PMC3503246
PMID: 21993628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7369):360-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10463.

Efficient quantum computing using coherent photon conversion.

Langford NK(1), Ramelow S, Prevedel R, Munro WJ, Milburn GJ, Zeilinger A.

Author information: 
(1)Vienna Center for Quantum Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics,
University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
nathan.langford@univie.ac.at

Single photons are excellent quantum information carriers: they were used in the 
earliest demonstrations of entanglement and in the production of the
highest-quality entanglement reported so far. However, current schemes for
preparing, processing and measuring them are inefficient. For example,
down-conversion provides heralded, but randomly timed, single photons, and linear
optics gates are inherently probabilistic. Here we introduce a deterministic
process--coherent photon conversion (CPC)--that provides a new way to generate
and process complex, multiquanta states for photonic quantum information
applications. The technique uses classically pumped nonlinearities to induce
coherent oscillations between orthogonal states of multiple quantum excitations. 
One example of CPC, based on a pumped four-wave-mixing interaction, is shown to
yield a single, versatile process that provides a full set of photonic quantum
processing tools. This set satisfies the DiVincenzo criteria for a scalable
quantum computing architecture, including deterministic multiqubit entanglement
gates (based on a novel form of photon-photon interaction), high-quality heralded
single- and multiphoton states free from higher-order imperfections, and robust, 
high-efficiency detection. It can also be used to produce heralded multiphoton
entanglement, create optically switchable quantum circuits and implement an
improved form of down-conversion with reduced higher-order effects. Such tools
are valuable building blocks for many quantum-enabled technologies. Finally,
using photonic crystal fibres we experimentally demonstrate quantum correlations 
arising from a four-colour nonlinear process suitable for CPC and use these
measurements to study the feasibility of reaching the deterministic regime with
current technology. Our scheme, which is based on interacting bosonic fields, is 
not restricted to optical systems but could also be implemented in
optomechanical, electromechanical and superconducting systems with extremely
strong intrinsic nonlinearities. Furthermore, exploiting higher-order
nonlinearities with multiple pump fields yields a mechanism for multiparty
mediation of the complex, coherent dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10463 
PMID: 21993627 


187. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7370):506-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10549.

A draft genome of Yersinia pestis from victims of the Black Death.

Bos KI(1), Schuenemann VJ, Golding GB, Burbano HA, Waglechner N, Coombes BK,
McPhee JB, DeWitte SN, Meyer M, Schmedes S, Wood J, Earn DJ, Herring DA, Bauer P,
Poinar HN, Krause J.

Author information: 
(1)McMaster Ancient DNA Centre, Department of Anthropology, McMaster University, 
1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4L8, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 8;480(7376):278.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 27;478(7370):465-6.

Technological advances in DNA recovery and sequencing have drastically expanded
the scope of genetic analyses of ancient specimens to the extent that full
genomic investigations are now feasible and are quickly becoming standard. This
trend has important implications for infectious disease research because genomic 
data from ancient microbes may help to elucidate mechanisms of pathogen evolution
and adaptation for emerging and re-emerging infections. Here we report a
reconstructed ancient genome of Yersinia pestis at 30-fold average coverage from 
Black Death victims securely dated to episodes of pestilence-associated mortality
in London, England, 1348-1350. Genetic architecture and phylogenetic analysis
indicate that the ancient organism is ancestral to most extant strains and sits
very close to the ancestral node of all Y. pestis commonly associated with human 
infection. Temporal estimates suggest that the Black Death of 1347-1351 was the
main historical event responsible for the introduction and widespread
dissemination of the ancestor to all currently circulating Y. pestis strains
pathogenic to humans, and further indicates that contemporary Y. pestis epidemics
have their origins in the medieval era. Comparisons against modern genomes reveal
no unique derived positions in the medieval organism, indicating that the
perceived increased virulence of the disease during the Black Death may not have 
been due to bacterial phenotype. These findings support the notion that factors
other than microbial genetics, such as environment, vector dynamics and host
susceptibility, should be at the forefront of epidemiological discussions
regarding emerging Y. pestis infections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10549 
PMCID: PMC3690193
PMID: 21993626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;479(7372):223-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10533.

Genome sequencing reveals insights into physiology and longevity of the naked
mole rat.

Kim EB(1), Fang X, Fushan AA, Huang Z, Lobanov AV, Han L, Marino SM, Sun X,
Turanov AA, Yang P, Yim SH, Zhao X, Kasaikina MV, Stoletzki N, Peng C, Polak P,
Xiong Z, Kiezun A, Zhu Y, Chen Y, Kryukov GV, Zhang Q, Peshkin L, Yang L, Bronson
RT, Buffenstein R, Wang B, Han C, Li Q, Chen L, Zhao W, Sunyaev SR, Park TJ,
Zhang G, Wang J, Gladyshev VN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioinspired Science, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, 120-750,
Korea.

The naked mole rat (Heterocephalus glaber) is a strictly subterranean,
extraordinarily long-lived eusocial mammal. Although it is the size of a mouse,
its maximum lifespan exceeds 30 years, making this animal the longest-living
rodent. Naked mole rats show negligible senescence, no age-related increase in
mortality, and high fecundity until death. In addition to delayed ageing, they
are resistant to both spontaneous cancer and experimentally induced
tumorigenesis. Naked mole rats pose a challenge to the theories that link ageing,
cancer and redox homeostasis. Although characterized by significant oxidative
stress, the naked mole rat proteome does not show age-related susceptibility to
oxidative damage or increased ubiquitination. Naked mole rats naturally reside in
large colonies with a single breeding female, the 'queen', who suppresses the
sexual maturity of her subordinates. They also live in full darkness, at low
oxygen and high carbon dioxide concentrations, and are unable to sustain
thermogenesis nor feel certain types of pain. Here we report the sequencing and
analysis of the naked mole rat genome, which reveals unique genome features and
molecular adaptations consistent with cancer resistance, poikilothermy,
hairlessness and insensitivity to low oxygen, and altered visual function,
circadian rythms and taste sensing. This information provides insights into the
naked mole rat's exceptional longevity and ability to live in hostile conditions,
in the dark and at low oxygen. The extreme traits of the naked mole rat, together
with the reported genome and transcriptome information, offer opportunities for
understanding ageing and advancing other areas of biological and biomedical
research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10533 
PMCID: PMC3319411
PMID: 21993625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7370):476-82. doi: 10.1038/nature10530.

A high-resolution map of human evolutionary constraint using 29 mammals.

Lindblad-Toh K(1), Garber M, Zuk O, Lin MF, Parker BJ, Washietl S, Kheradpour P, 
Ernst J, Jordan G, Mauceli E, Ward LD, Lowe CB, Holloway AK, Clamp M, Gnerre S,
Alföldi J, Beal K, Chang J, Clawson H, Cuff J, Di Palma F, Fitzgerald S, Flicek
P, Guttman M, Hubisz MJ, Jaffe DB, Jungreis I, Kent WJ, Kostka D, Lara M, Martins
AL, Massingham T, Moltke I, Raney BJ, Rasmussen MD, Robinson J, Stark A, Vilella 
AJ, Wen J, Xie X, Zody MC; Broad Institute Sequencing Platform and Whole Genome
Assembly Team, Baldwin J, Bloom T, Chin CW, Heiman D, Nicol R, Nusbaum C, Young
S, Wilkinson J, Worley KC, Kovar CL, Muzny DM, Gibbs RA; Baylor College of
Medicine Human Genome Sequencing Center Sequencing Team, Cree A, Dihn HH, Fowler 
G, Jhangiani S, Joshi V, Lee S, Lewis LR, Nazareth LV, Okwuonu G, Santibanez J,
Warren WC, Mardis ER, Weinstock GM, Wilson RK; Genome Institute at Washington
University, Delehaunty K, Dooling D, Fronik C, Fulton L, Fulton B, Graves T, Minx
P, Sodergren E, Birney E, Margulies EH, Herrero J, Green ED, Haussler D, Siepel
A, Goldman N, Pollard KS, Pedersen JS, Lander ES, Kellis M.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of Harvard and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 7
Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA. kersli@broadinstitute.org

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Dec;12(12):806-7.

The comparison of related genomes has emerged as a powerful lens for genome
interpretation. Here we report the sequencing and comparative analysis of 29
eutherian genomes. We confirm that at least 5.5% of the human genome has
undergone purifying selection, and locate constrained elements covering ∼4.2% of 
the genome. We use evolutionary signatures and comparisons with experimental data
sets to suggest candidate functions for ∼60% of constrained bases. These elements
reveal a small number of new coding exons, candidate stop codon readthrough
events and over 10,000 regions of overlapping synonymous constraint within
protein-coding exons. We find 220 candidate RNA structural families, and nearly a
million elements overlapping potential promoter, enhancer and insulator regions. 
We report specific amino acid residues that have undergone positive selection,
280,000 non-coding elements exapted from mobile elements and more than 1,000
primate- and human-accelerated elements. Overlap with disease-associated variants
indicates that our findings will be relevant for studies of human biology, health
and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10530 
PMCID: PMC3207357
PMID: 21993624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;479(7373):397-400. doi: 10.1038/nature10521.

Perception of sniff phase in mouse olfaction.

Smear M(1), Shusterman R, O'Connor R, Bozza T, Rinberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147, USA.

Olfactory systems encode odours by which neurons respond and by when they
respond. In mammals, every sniff evokes a precise, odour-specific sequence of
activity across olfactory neurons. Likewise, in a variety of neural systems,
ranging from sensory periphery to cognitive centres, neuronal activity is timed
relative to sampling behaviour and/or internally generated oscillations. As in
these neural systems, relative timing of activity may represent information in
the olfactory system. However, there is no evidence that mammalian olfactory
systems read such cues. To test whether mice perceive the timing of olfactory
activation relative to the sniff cycle ('sniff phase'), we used optogenetics in
gene-targeted mice to generate spatially constant, temporally controllable
olfactory input. Here we show that mice can behaviourally report the sniff phase 
of optogenetically driven activation of olfactory sensory neurons. Furthermore,
mice can discriminate between light-evoked inputs that are shifted in the sniff
cycle by as little as 10 milliseconds, which is similar to the temporal precision
of olfactory bulb odour responses. Electrophysiological recordings in the
olfactory bulb of awake mice show that individual cells encode the timing of
photoactivation in relation to the sniff in both the timing and the amplitude of 
their responses. Our work provides evidence that the mammalian olfactory system
can read temporal patterns, and suggests that timing of activity relative to
sampling behaviour is a potent cue that may enable accurate olfactory percepts to
form quickly.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10521 
PMID: 21993623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;480(7375):128-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10560.

Cascades of multisite phosphorylation control Sic1 destruction at the onset of S 
phase.

Kõivomägi M(1), Valk E, Venta R, Iofik A, Lepiku M, Balog ER, Rubin SM, Morgan
DO, Loog M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Technology, University of Tartu, Tartu 50411, Estonia.

Multisite phosphorylation of proteins has been proposed to transform a graded
protein kinase signal into an ultrasensitive switch-like response. Although many 
multiphosphorylated targets have been identified, the dynamics and sequence of
individual phosphorylation events within the multisite phosphorylation process
have never been thoroughly studied. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the initiation
of S phase is thought to be governed by complexes of Cdk1 and Cln cyclins that
phosphorylate six or more sites on the Clb5-Cdk1 inhibitor Sic1, directing it to 
SCF-mediated destruction. The resulting Sic1-free Clb5-Cdk1 complex triggers S
phase. Here, we demonstrate that Sic1 destruction depends on a more complex
process in which both Cln2-Cdk1 and Clb5-Cdk1 act in processive
multiphosphorylation cascades leading to the phosphorylation of a small number of
specific phosphodegrons. The routes of these phosphorylation cascades are shaped 
by precisely oriented docking interactions mediated by cyclin-specific docking
motifs in Sic1 and by Cks1, the phospho-adaptor subunit of Cdk1. Our results
indicate that Clb5-Cdk1-dependent phosphorylation generates positive feedback
that is required for switch-like Sic1 destruction. Our evidence for a docking
network within clusters of phosphorylation sites uncovers a new level of
complexity in Cdk1-dependent regulation of cell cycle transitions, and has
general implications for the regulation of cellular processes by multisite
phosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10560 
PMCID: PMC3228899
PMID: 21993622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7369):391-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10424.

Targeted gene correction of α1-antitrypsin deficiency in induced pluripotent stem
cells.

Yusa K(1), Rashid ST, Strick-Marchand H, Varela I, Liu PQ, Paschon DE, Miranda E,
Ordóñez A, Hannan NR, Rouhani FJ, Darche S, Alexander G, Marciniak SJ, Fusaki N, 
Hasegawa M, Holmes MC, Di Santo JP, Lomas DA, Bradley A, Vallier L.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2012 Jun;55(6):2033-5.

Human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) represent a unique opportunity for
regenerative medicine because they offer the prospect of generating unlimited
quantities of cells for autologous transplantation, with potential application in
treatments for a broad range of disorders. However, the use of human iPSCs in the
context of genetically inherited human disease will require the correction of
disease-causing mutations in a manner that is fully compatible with clinical
applications. The methods currently available, such as homologous recombination, 
lack the necessary efficiency and also leave residual sequences in the targeted
genome. Therefore, the development of new approaches to edit the mammalian genome
is a prerequisite to delivering the clinical promise of human iPSCs. Here we show
that a combination of zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs) and piggyBac technology in
human iPSCs can achieve biallelic correction of a point mutation (Glu342Lys) in
the α(1)-antitrypsin (A1AT, also known as SERPINA1) gene that is responsible for 
α(1)-antitrypsin deficiency. Genetic correction of human iPSCs restored the
structure and function of A1AT in subsequently derived liver cells in vitro and
in vivo. This approach is significantly more efficient than any other
gene-targeting technology that is currently available and crucially prevents
contamination of the host genome with residual non-human sequences. Our results
provide the first proof of principle, to our knowledge, for the potential of
combining human iPSCs with genetic correction to generate clinically relevant
cells for autologous cell-based therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10424 
PMCID: PMC3198846
PMID: 21993621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2011 Oct 12;478(7369):337-42. doi: 10.1038/nature10452.

Solutions for a cultivated planet.

Foley JA(1), Ramankutty N, Brauman KA, Cassidy ES, Gerber JS, Johnston M, Mueller
ND, O'Connell C, Ray DK, West PC, Balzer C, Bennett EM, Carpenter SR, Hill J,
Monfreda C, Polasky S, Rockström J, Sheehan J, Siebert S, Tilman D, Zaks DP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute on the Environment (IonE), University of Minnesota, 1954 Buford
Avenue, Saint Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA. jfoley@umn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):39.
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):39.

Increasing population and consumption are placing unprecedented demands on
agriculture and natural resources. Today, approximately a billion people are
chronically malnourished while our agricultural systems are concurrently
degrading land, water, biodiversity and climate on a global scale. To meet the
world's future food security and sustainability needs, food production must grow 
substantially while, at the same time, agriculture's environmental footprint must
shrink dramatically. Here we analyse solutions to this dilemma, showing that
tremendous progress could be made by halting agricultural expansion, closing
'yield gaps' on underperforming lands, increasing cropping efficiency, shifting
diets and reducing waste. Together, these strategies could double food production
while greatly reducing the environmental impacts of agriculture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10452 
PMID: 21993620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 2011 Oct 9;478(7370):538-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10457.

Structural basis for the bifunctionality of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate
aldolase/phosphatase.

Fushinobu S(1), Nishimasu H, Hattori D, Song HJ, Wakagi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.

Enzymes catalyse specific reactions and are essential for maintaining life.
Although some are referred to as being bifunctional, they consist of either two
distinct catalytic domains or a single domain that displays promiscuous substrate
specificity. Thus, one enzyme active site is generally responsible for one
biochemical reaction. In contrast to this conventional concept, archaeal
fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (FBP) aldolase/phosphatase (FBPA/P) consists of a
single catalytic domain, but catalyses two chemically distinct reactions of
gluconeogenesis: (1) the reversible aldol condensation of dihydroxyacetone
phosphate (DHAP) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (GA3P) to FBP; (2) the
dephosphorylation of FBP to fructose-6-phosphate (F6P). Thus, FBPA/P is
fundamentally different from ordinary enzymes whose active sites are responsible 
for a specific reaction. However, the molecular mechanism by which FBPA/P
achieves its unusual bifunctionality remains unknown. Here we report the crystal 
structure of FBPA/P at 1.5-Å resolution in the aldolase form, where a critical
lysine residue forms a Schiff base with DHAP. A structural comparison of the
aldolase form with a previously determined phosphatase form revealed a dramatic
conformational change in the active site, demonstrating that FBPA/P metamorphoses
its active-site architecture to exhibit dual activities. Thus, our findings
expand the conventional concept that one enzyme catalyses one biochemical
reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10457 
PMID: 21983966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2011 Oct 9;478(7370):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10458.

Active-site remodelling in the bifunctional fructose-1,6-bisphosphate
aldolase/phosphatase.

Du J(1), Say RF, Lü W, Fuchs G, Einsle O.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Biochemie, Institut für organische Chemie und Biochemie,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Albertstrasse 21, 79104 Freiburg, Germany.

Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (FBP) aldolase/phosphatase is a bifunctional,
thermostable enzyme that catalyses two subsequent steps in gluconeogenesis in
most archaea and in deeply branching bacterial lineages. It mediates the aldol
condensation of heat-labile dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (GAP) to FBP, as well as the subsequent, irreversible 
hydrolysis of the product to yield the stable fructose-6-phosphate (F6P) and
inorganic phosphate; no reaction intermediates are released. Here we present a
series of structural snapshots of the reaction that reveal a substantial
remodelling of the active site through the movement of loop regions that create
different catalytic functionalities at the same location. We have solved the
three-dimensional structures of FBP aldolase/phosphatase from thermophilic
Thermoproteus neutrophilus in a ligand-free state as well as in complex with the 
substrates DHAP and FBP and the product F6P to resolutions up to 1.3 Å. In
conjunction with mutagenesis data, this pinpoints the residues required for the
two reaction steps and shows that the sequential binding of additional Mg(2+)
cations reversibly facilitates the reaction. FBP aldolase/phosphatase is an
ancestral gluconeogenic enzyme optimized for high ambient temperatures, and our
work resolves how consecutive structural rearrangements reorganize the catalytic 
centre of the protein to carry out two canonical reactions in a very
non-canonical type of bifunctionality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10458 
PMID: 21983965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2011 Oct 9;479(7371):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10451.

Feedback from rhodopsin controls rhodopsin exclusion in Drosophila
photoreceptors.

Vasiliauskas D(1), Mazzoni EO, Sprecher SG, Brodetskiy K, Johnston RJ Jr, Lidder 
P, Vogt N, Celik A, Desplan C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Developmental Genetics, Department of Biology, New York University,
New York, New York 10003, USA.

Sensory systems with high discriminatory power use neurons that express only one 
of several alternative sensory receptor proteins. This exclusive receptor gene
expression restricts the sensitivity spectrum of neurons and is coordinated with 
the choice of their synaptic targets. However, little is known about how it is
maintained throughout the life of a neuron. Here we show that the green-light
sensing receptor rhodopsin 6 (Rh6) acts to exclude an alternative blue-sensitive 
rhodopsin 5 (Rh5) from a subset of Drosophila R8 photoreceptor neurons. Loss of
Rh6 leads to a gradual expansion of Rh5 expression into all R8 photoreceptors of 
the ageing adult retina. The Rh6 feedback signal results in repression of the rh5
promoter and can be mimicked by other Drosophila rhodopsins; it is partly
dependent on activation of rhodopsin by light, and relies on G(αq) activity, but 
not on the subsequent steps of the phototransduction cascade. Our observations
reveal a thus far unappreciated spectral plasticity of R8 photoreceptors, and
identify rhodopsin feedback as an exclusion mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10451 
PMCID: PMC3208777
PMID: 21983964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2011 Oct 9;479(7372):189-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10573.

Distinct stem cells contribute to mammary gland development and maintenance.

Van Keymeulen A(1), Rocha AS, Ousset M, Beck B, Bouvencourt G, Rock J, Sharma N, 
Dekoninck S, Blanpain C.

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles, IRIBHM, Brussels B-1070, Belgium.

Comment in
    EMBO J. 2011 Dec 14;30(24):4858-9.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Dec 2;9(6):496-7.

The mammary epithelium is composed of several cell lineages including luminal,
alveolar and myoepithelial cells. Transplantation studies have suggested that the
mammary epithelium is maintained by the presence of multipotent mammary stem
cells. To define the cellular hierarchy of the mammary gland during physiological
conditions, we performed genetic lineage-tracing experiments and clonal analysis 
of the mouse mammary gland during development, adulthood and pregnancy. We found 
that in postnatal unperturbed mammary gland, both luminal and myoepithelial
lineages contain long-lived unipotent stem cells that display extensive renewing 
capacities, as demonstrated by their ability to clonally expand during
morphogenesis and adult life as well as undergo massive expansion during several 
cycles of pregnancy. The demonstration that the mammary gland contains different 
types of long-lived stem cells has profound implications for our understanding of
mammary gland physiology and will be instrumental in unravelling the cells at the
origin of breast cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10573 
PMID: 21983963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2011 Oct 9;479(7371):122-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10507.

Macrophage skewing by Phd2 haplodeficiency prevents ischaemia by inducing
arteriogenesis.

Takeda Y(1), Costa S, Delamarre E, Roncal C, Leite de Oliveira R, Squadrito ML,
Finisguerra V, Deschoemaeker S, Bruyère F, Wenes M, Hamm A, Serneels J, Magat J, 
Bhattacharyya T, Anisimov A, Jordan BF, Alitalo K, Maxwell P, Gallez B, Zhuang
ZW, Saito Y, Simons M, De Palma M, Mazzone M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Oncology and Angiogenesis, Vesalius Research Center,
VIB, Leuven B-3000, Belgium.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Apr 13;110(8):1045-6.

PHD2 serves as an oxygen sensor that rescues blood supply by regulating vessel
formation and shape in case of oxygen shortage. However, it is unknown whether
PHD2 can influence arteriogenesis. Here we studied the role of PHD2 in collateral
artery growth by using hindlimb ischaemia as a model, a process that compensates 
for the lack of blood flow in case of major arterial occlusion. We show that Phd2
(also known as Egln1) haplodeficient (Phd2(+/-)) mice displayed preformed
collateral arteries that preserved limb perfusion and prevented tissue necrosis
in ischaemia. Improved arteriogenesis in Phd2(+/-) mice was due to an expansion
of tissue-resident, M2-like macrophages and their increased release of
arteriogenic factors, leading to enhanced smooth muscle cell (SMC) recruitment
and growth. Both chronic and acute deletion of one Phd2 allele in macrophages was
sufficient to skew their polarization towards a pro-arteriogenic phenotype.
Mechanistically, collateral vessel preconditioning relied on the activation of
canonical NF-κB pathway in Phd2(+/-) macrophages. These results unravel how PHD2 
regulates arteriogenesis and artery homeostasis by controlling a specific
differentiation state in macrophages and suggest new treatment options for
ischaemic disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10507 
PMCID: PMC4659699
PMID: 21983962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):127-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10456.

Pathogenic exon-trapping by SVA retrotransposon and rescue in Fukuyama muscular
dystrophy.

Taniguchi-Ikeda M(1), Kobayashi K, Kanagawa M, Yu CC, Mori K, Oda T, Kuga A,
Kurahashi H, Akman HO, DiMauro S, Kaji R, Yokota T, Takeda S, Toda T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology/Molecular Brain Science, Kobe University Graduate School
of Medicine, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):46-7.

Fukuyama muscular dystrophy (FCMD; MIM253800), one of the most common autosomal
recessive disorders in Japan, was the first human disease found to result from
ancestral insertion of a SINE-VNTR-Alu (SVA) retrotransposon into a causative
gene. In FCMD, the SVA insertion occurs in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of
the fukutin gene. The pathogenic mechanism for FCMD is unknown, and no effective 
clinical treatments exist. Here we show that aberrant messenger RNA (mRNA)
splicing, induced by SVA exon-trapping, underlies the molecular pathogenesis of
FCMD. Quantitative mRNA analysis pinpointed a region that was missing from
transcripts in patients with FCMD. This region spans part of the 3' end of the
fukutin coding region, a proximal part of the 3' UTR and the SVA insertion.
Correspondingly, fukutin mRNA transcripts in patients with FCMD and SVA knock-in 
model mice were shorter than the expected length. Sequence analysis revealed an
abnormal splicing event, provoked by a strong acceptor site in SVA and a rare
alternative donor site in fukutin exon 10. The resulting product truncates the
fukutin carboxy (C) terminus and adds 129 amino acids encoded by the SVA.
Introduction of antisense oligonucleotides (AONs) targeting the splice acceptor, 
the predicted exonic splicing enhancer and the intronic splicing enhancer
prevented pathogenic exon-trapping by SVA in cells of patients with FCMD and
model mice, rescuing normal fukutin mRNA expression and protein production. AON
treatment also restored fukutin functions, including O-glycosylation of
α-dystroglycan (α-DG) and laminin binding by α-DG. Moreover, we observe
exon-trapping in other SVA insertions associated with disease
(hypercholesterolemia, neutral lipid storage disease) and human-specific SVA
insertion in a novel gene. Thus, although splicing into SVA is known, we have
discovered in human disease a role for SVA-mediated exon-trapping and
demonstrated the promise of splicing modulation therapy as the first radical
clinical treatment for FCMD and other SVA-mediated diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10456 
PMCID: PMC3412178
PMID: 21979053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):123-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10485.

Peripheral SMN restoration is essential for long-term rescue of a severe spinal
muscular atrophy mouse model.

Hua Y(1), Sahashi K, Rigo F, Hung G, Horev G, Bennett CF, Krainer AR.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, PO Box 100, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724,
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Dec;10(12):900.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a motor neuron disease and the leading genetic
cause of infant mortality; it results from loss-of-function mutations in the
survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene. Humans have a paralogue, SMN2, whose exon 7 
is predominantly skipped, but the limited amount of functional, full-length SMN
protein expressed from SMN2 cannot fully compensate for a lack of SMN1. SMN is
important for the biogenesis of spliceosomal small nuclear ribonucleoprotein
particles, but downstream splicing targets involved in pathogenesis remain
elusive. There is no effective SMA treatment, but SMN restoration in spinal cord 
motor neurons is thought to be necessary and sufficient. Non-central nervous
system (CNS) pathologies, including cardiovascular defects, were recently
reported in severe SMA mouse models and patients, reflecting autonomic
dysfunction or direct effects in cardiac tissues. Here we compared systemic
versus CNS restoration of SMN in a severe mouse model. We used an antisense
oligonucleotide (ASO), ASO-10-27, that effectively corrects SMN2 splicing and
restores SMN expression in motor neurons after intracerebroventricular injection.
Systemic administration of ASO-10-27 to neonates robustly rescued severe SMA
mice, much more effectively than intracerebroventricular administration;
subcutaneous injections extended the median lifespan by 25 fold. Furthermore,
neonatal SMA mice had decreased hepatic Igfals expression, leading to a
pronounced reduction in circulating insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), and
ASO-10-27 treatment restored IGF1 to normal levels. These results suggest that
the liver is important in SMA pathogenesis, underscoring the importance of SMN in
peripheral tissues, and demonstrate the efficacy of a promising drug candidate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10485 
PMCID: PMC3191865
PMID: 21979052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):114-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10490.

Endonuclease G is a novel determinant of cardiac hypertrophy and mitochondrial
function.

McDermott-Roe C(1), Ye J, Ahmed R, Sun XM, Serafín A, Ware J, Bottolo L, Muckett 
P, Cañas X, Zhang J, Rowe GC, Buchan R, Lu H, Braithwaite A, Mancini M, Hauton D,
Martí R, García-Arumí E, Hubner N, Jacob H, Serikawa T, Zidek V, Papousek F,
Kolar F, Cardona M, Ruiz-Meana M, García-Dorado D, Comella JX, Felkin LE, Barton 
PJ, Arany Z, Pravenec M, Petretto E, Sanchis D, Cook SA.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Clinical Sciences Centre, Faculty of Medicine,
Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London W12 ONN, UK.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Feb 3;110(3):378-80.

Left ventricular mass (LVM) is a highly heritable trait and an independent risk
factor for all-cause mortality. So far, genome-wide association studies have not 
identified the genetic factors that underlie LVM variation, and the regulatory
mechanisms for blood-pressure-independent cardiac hypertrophy remain poorly
understood. Unbiased systems genetics approaches in the rat now provide a
powerful complementary tool to genome-wide association studies, and we applied
integrative genomics to dissect a highly replicated, blood-pressure-independent
LVM locus on rat chromosome 3p. Here we identified endonuclease G (Endog), which 
previously was implicated in apoptosis but not hypertrophy, as the gene at the
locus, and we found a loss-of-function mutation in Endog that is associated with 
increased LVM and impaired cardiac function. Inhibition of Endog in cultured
cardiomyocytes resulted in an increase in cell size and hypertrophic biomarkers
in the absence of pro-hypertrophic stimulation. Genome-wide network analysis
unexpectedly implicated ENDOG in fundamental mitochondrial processes that are
unrelated to apoptosis. We showed direct regulation of ENDOG by ERR-α and PGC1α
(which are master regulators of mitochondrial and cardiac function), interaction 
of ENDOG with the mitochondrial genome and ENDOG-mediated regulation of
mitochondrial mass. At baseline, the Endog-deleted mouse heart had depleted
mitochondria, mitochondrial dysfunction and elevated levels of reactive oxygen
species, which were associated with enlarged and steatotic cardiomyocytes. Our
study has further established the link between mitochondrial dysfunction,
reactive oxygen species and heart disease and has uncovered a role for Endog in
maladaptive cardiac hypertrophy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10490 
PMCID: PMC3189541
PMID: 21979051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):93-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10499.

A carbon isotope challenge to the snowball Earth.

Sansjofre P(1), Ader M, Trindade RI, Elie M, Lyons J, Cartigny P, Nogueira AC.

Author information: 
(1)Équipe de Géochimie des Isotopes Stables, Institut de Physique du Globe de
Paris, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Univ. Paris Diderot, UMR 7154 CNRS, 75238 Paris Cedex
05, France. sansjofre@ipgp.fr

The snowball Earth hypothesis postulates that the planet was entirely covered by 
ice for millions of years in the Neoproterozoic era, in a self-enhanced
glaciation caused by the high albedo of the ice-covered planet. In a
hard-snowball picture, the subsequent rapid unfreezing resulted from an
ultra-greenhouse event attributed to the buildup of volcanic carbon dioxide
(CO(2)) during glaciation. High partial pressures of atmospheric CO(2) (pCO2;
from 20,000 to 90,000 p.p.m.v.) in the aftermath of the Marinoan glaciation
(∼635 Myr ago) have been inferred from both boron and triple oxygen isotopes.
These pCO2 values are 50 to 225 times higher than present-day levels. Here, we
re-evaluate these estimates using paired carbon isotopic data for carbonate
layers that cap Neoproterozoic glacial deposits and are considered to record
post-glacial sea level rise. The new data reported here for Brazilian cap
carbonates, together with previous ones for time-equivalent units, provide
estimates lower than 3,200 p.p.m.v.--and possibly as low as the current value of 
∼400 p.p.m.v. Our new constraint, and our re-interpretation of the boron and
triple oxygen isotope data, provide a completely different picture of the late
Neoproterozoic environment, with low atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide
and oxygen that are inconsistent with a hard-snowball Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10499 
PMID: 21979050 


203. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature10461.

Laser cooling of a nanomechanical oscillator into its quantum ground state.

Chan J(1), Alegre TP, Safavi-Naeini AH, Hill JT, Krause A, Gröblacher S,
Aspelmeyer M, Painter O.

Author information: 
(1)Thomas J. Watson, Sr, Laboratory of Applied Physics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):47-8.

The simple mechanical oscillator, canonically consisting of a coupled mass-spring
system, is used in a wide variety of sensitive measurements, including the
detection of weak forces and small masses. On the one hand, a classical
oscillator has a well-defined amplitude of motion; a quantum oscillator, on the
other hand, has a lowest-energy state, or ground state, with a finite-amplitude
uncertainty corresponding to zero-point motion. On the macroscopic scale of our
everyday experience, owing to interactions with its highly fluctuating thermal
environment a mechanical oscillator is filled with many energy quanta and its
quantum nature is all but hidden. Recently, in experiments performed at
temperatures of a few hundredths of a kelvin, engineered nanomechanical
resonators coupled to electrical circuits have been measured to be oscillating in
their quantum ground state. These experiments, in addition to providing a glimpse
into the underlying quantum behaviour of mesoscopic systems consisting of
billions of atoms, represent the initial steps towards the use of mechanical
devices as tools for quantum metrology or as a means of coupling hybrid quantum
systems. Here we report the development of a coupled, nanoscale optical and
mechanical resonator formed in a silicon microchip, in which radiation pressure
from a laser is used to cool the mechanical motion down to its quantum ground
state (reaching an average phonon occupancy number of 0.85 ± 0.08). This cooling 
is realized at an environmental temperature of 20 K, roughly one thousand times
larger than in previous experiments and paves the way for optical control of
mesoscale mechanical oscillators in the quantum regime.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10461 
PMID: 21979049 


204. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10498.

Resonances arising from hydrodynamic memory in Brownian motion.

Franosch T(1), Grimm M, Belushkin M, Mor FM, Foffi G, Forró L, Jeney S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Theoretische Physik, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Staudtstraße 7, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):45-6.

Observation of the Brownian motion of a small probe interacting with its
environment provides one of the main strategies for characterizing soft matter.
Essentially, two counteracting forces govern the motion of the Brownian particle.
First, the particle is driven by rapid collisions with the surrounding solvent
molecules, referred to as thermal noise. Second, the friction between the
particle and the viscous solvent damps its motion. Conventionally, the thermal
force is assumed to be random and characterized by a Gaussian white noise
spectrum. The friction is assumed to be given by the Stokes drag, suggesting that
motion is overdamped at long times in particle tracking experiments, when inertia
becomes negligible. However, as the particle receives momentum from the
fluctuating fluid molecules, it also displaces the fluid in its immediate
vicinity. The entrained fluid acts back on the particle and gives rise to
long-range correlations. This hydrodynamic 'memory' translates to thermal forces,
which have a coloured, that is, non-white, noise spectrum. One hundred years
after Perrin's pioneering experiments on Brownian motion, direct experimental
observation of this colour is still elusive. Here we measure the spectrum of
thermal noise by confining the Brownian fluctuations of a microsphere in a strong
optical trap. We show that hydrodynamic correlations result in a resonant peak in
the power spectral density of the sphere's positional fluctuations, in strong
contrast to overdamped systems. Furthermore, we demonstrate different strategies 
to achieve peak amplification. By analogy with microcantilever-based sensors, our
results reveal that the particle-fluid-trap system can be considered a
nanomechanical resonator in which the intrinsic hydrodynamic backflow enhances
resonance. Therefore, instead of being treated as a disturbance, details in
thermal noise could be exploited for the development of new types of sensor and
particle-based assay in lab-on-a-chip applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10498 
PMID: 21979048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):76-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10449.

Complement factor H binds malondialdehyde epitopes and protects from oxidative
stress.

Weismann D(1), Hartvigsen K, Lauer N, Bennett KL, Scholl HP, Charbel Issa P, Cano
M, Brandstätter H, Tsimikas S, Skerka C, Superti-Furga G, Handa JT, Zipfel PF,
Witztum JL, Binder CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, 1090
Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):42-3.

Oxidative stress and enhanced lipid peroxidation are linked to many chronic
inflammatory diseases, including age-related macular degeneration (AMD). AMD is
the leading cause of blindness in Western societies, but its aetiology remains
largely unknown. Malondialdehyde (MDA) is a common lipid peroxidation product
that accumulates in many pathophysiological processes, including AMD. Here we
identify complement factor H (CFH) as a major MDA-binding protein that can block 
both the uptake of MDA-modified proteins by macrophages and MDA-induced
proinflammatory effects in vivo in mice. The CFH polymorphism H402, which is
strongly associated with AMD, markedly reduces the ability of CFH to bind MDA,
indicating a causal link to disease aetiology. Our findings provide important
mechanistic insights into innate immune responses to oxidative stress, which may 
be exploited in the prevention of and therapy for AMD and other chronic
inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10449 
PMCID: PMC4826616
PMID: 21979047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):70-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10397.

Human oocytes reprogram somatic cells to a pluripotent state.

Noggle S(1), Fung HL, Gore A, Martinez H, Satriani KC, Prosser R, Oum K, Paull D,
Druckenmiller S, Freeby M, Greenberg E, Zhang K, Goland R, Sauer MV, Leibel RL,
Egli D.

Author information: 
(1)The New York Stem Cell Foundation Laboratory, New York, New York, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):40-1.
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):36-7.
    Nature. 2011 Dec 1;480(7375):39.
    Nat Methods. 2011 Dec;8(12):995.

The exchange of the oocyte's genome with the genome of a somatic cell, followed
by the derivation of pluripotent stem cells, could enable the generation of
specific cells affected in degenerative human diseases. Such cells, carrying the 
patient's genome, might be useful for cell replacement. Here we report that the
development of human oocytes after genome exchange arrests at late cleavage
stages in association with transcriptional abnormalities. In contrast, if the
oocyte genome is not removed and the somatic cell genome is merely added, the
resultant triploid cells develop to the blastocyst stage. Stem cell lines derived
from these blastocysts differentiate into cell types of all three germ layers,
and a pluripotent gene expression program is established on the genome derived
from the somatic cell. This result demonstrates the feasibility of reprogramming 
human cells using oocytes and identifies removal of the oocyte genome as the
primary cause of developmental failure after genome exchange.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10397 
PMID: 21979046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7367):49-56. doi: 10.1038/nature10386.

Persistence of soil organic matter as an ecosystem property.

Schmidt MW(1), Torn MS, Abiven S, Dittmar T, Guggenberger G, Janssens IA, Kleber 
M, Kögel-Knabner I, Lehmann J, Manning DA, Nannipieri P, Rasse DP, Weiner S,
Trumbore SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography, University of Zurich, 8050 Zürich, Switzerland.
Michael.Schmidt@geo.uzh.ch

Globally, soil organic matter (SOM) contains more than three times as much carbon
as either the atmosphere or terrestrial vegetation. Yet it remains largely
unknown why some SOM persists for millennia whereas other SOM decomposes
readily--and this limits our ability to predict how soils will respond to climate
change. Recent analytical and experimental advances have demonstrated that
molecular structure alone does not control SOM stability: in fact, environmental 
and biological controls predominate. Here we propose ways to include this
understanding in a new generation of experiments and soil carbon models, thereby 
improving predictions of the SOM response to global warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10386 
PMID: 21979045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7369):408-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10450.

Crystal structure of a bacterial homologue of the bile acid sodium symporter
ASBT.

Hu NJ(1), Iwata S, Cameron AD, Drew D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Biosciences, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ,
UK.

High cholesterol levels greatly increase the risk of cardiovascular disease.
About 50 per cent of cholesterol is eliminated from the body by its conversion
into bile acids. However, bile acids released from the bile duct are constantly
recycled, being reabsorbed in the intestine by the apical sodium-dependent bile
acid transporter (ASBT, also known as SLC10A2). It has been shown in animal
models that plasma cholesterol levels are considerably lowered by specific
inhibitors of ASBT, and ASBT is thus a target for hypercholesterolaemia drugs.
Here we report the crystal structure of a bacterial homologue of ASBT from
Neisseria meningitidis (ASBT(NM)) at 2.2 Å. ASBT(NM) contains two inverted
structural repeats of five transmembrane helices. A core domain of six helices
harbours two sodium ions, and the remaining four helices pack in a row to form a 
flat, 'panel'-like domain. Overall, the architecture of the protein is remarkably
similar to the sodium/proton antiporter NhaA, despite having no detectable
sequence homology. The ASBT(NM) structure was captured with the substrate
taurocholate present, bound between the core and panel domains in a large,
inward-facing, hydrophobic cavity. Residues near this cavity have been shown to
affect the binding of specific inhibitors of human ASBT. The position of the
taurocholate molecule, together with the molecular architecture, suggests the
rudiments of a possible transport mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10450 
PMCID: PMC3198845
PMID: 21976025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7368):218-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10519.

Ocean-like water in the Jupiter-family comet 103P/Hartley 2.

Hartogh P(1), Lis DC, Bockelée-Morvan D, de Val-Borro M, Biver N, Küppers M,
Emprechtinger M, Bergin EA, Crovisier J, Rengel M, Moreno R, Szutowicz S, Blake
GA.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Sonnensystemforschung, Max-Planck-Str. 2, 37191
Katlenburg-Lindau, Germany. hartogh@mps.mpg.de

For decades, the source of Earth's volatiles, especially water with a
deuterium-to-hydrogen ratio (D/H) of (1.558 ± 0.001) × 10(-4), has been a subject
of debate. The similarity of Earth's bulk composition to that of meteorites known
as enstatite chondrites suggests a dry proto-Earth with subsequent delivery of
volatiles by local accretion or impacts of asteroids or comets. Previous
measurements in six comets from the Oort cloud yielded a mean D/H ratio of
(2.96 ± 0.25) × 10(-4). The D/H value in carbonaceous chondrites,
(1.4 ± 0.1) × 10(-4), together with dynamical simulations, led to models in which
asteroids were the main source of Earth's water, with ≤10 per cent being
delivered by comets. Here we report that the D/H ratio in the Jupiter-family
comet 103P/Hartley 2, which originated in the Kuiper belt, is
(1.61 ± 0.24) × 10(-4). This result substantially expands the reservoir of Earth 
ocean-like water to include some comets, and is consistent with the emerging
picture of a complex dynamical evolution of the early Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10519 
PMID: 21976024 


210. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7368):197-203. doi: 10.1038/nature10491.

An endogenous tumour-promoting ligand of the human aryl hydrocarbon receptor.

Opitz CA(1), Litzenburger UM, Sahm F, Ott M, Tritschler I, Trump S, Schumacher T,
Jestaedt L, Schrenk D, Weller M, Jugold M, Guillemin GJ, Miller CL, Lutz C,
Radlwimmer B, Lehmann I, von Deimling A, Wick W, Platten M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurooncology, Neurology Clinic and National Center for Tumor
Diseases, University Hospital of Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2012 Apr;12(4):801.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Nov;11(11):757.
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):192-4.

Activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) by environmental xenobiotic
toxic chemicals, for instance 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (dioxin), has
been implicated in a variety of cellular processes such as embryogenesis,
transformation, tumorigenesis and inflammation. But the identity of an endogenous
ligand activating the AHR under physiological conditions in the absence of
environmental toxic chemicals is still unknown. Here we identify the tryptophan
(Trp) catabolite kynurenine (Kyn) as an endogenous ligand of the human AHR that
is constitutively generated by human tumour cells via tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenase 
(TDO), a liver- and neuron-derived Trp-degrading enzyme not yet implicated in
cancer biology. TDO-derived Kyn suppresses antitumour immune responses and
promotes tumour-cell survival and motility through the AHR in an
autocrine/paracrine fashion. The TDO-AHR pathway is active in human brain tumours
and is associated with malignant progression and poor survival. Because Kyn is
produced during cancer progression and inflammation in the local microenvironment
in amounts sufficient for activating the human AHR, these results provide
evidence for a previously unidentified pathophysiological function of the AHR
with profound implications for cancer and immune biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10491 
PMID: 21976023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7368):214-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10446.

Low-Mach-number turbulence in interstellar gas revealed by radio polarization
gradients.

Gaensler BM(1), Haverkorn M, Burkhart B, Newton-McGee KJ, Ekers RD, Lazarian A,
McClure-Griffiths NM, Robishaw T, Dickey JM, Green AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Institute for Astronomy, School of Physics, The University of Sydney,
New South Wales 2006, Australia. bryan.gaensler@sydney.edu.au

The interstellar medium of the Milky Way is multiphase, magnetized and turbulent.
Turbulence in the interstellar medium produces a global cascade of random gas
motions, spanning scales ranging from 100 parsecs to 1,000 kilometres (ref. 4).
Fundamental parameters of interstellar turbulence such as the sonic Mach number
(the speed of sound) have been difficult to determine, because observations have 
lacked the sensitivity and resolution to image the small-scale structure
associated with turbulent motion. Observations of linear polarization and Faraday
rotation in radio emission from the Milky Way have identified unusual polarized
structures that often have no counterparts in the total radiation intensity or at
other wavelengths, and whose physical significance has been unclear. Here we
report that the gradient of the Stokes vector (Q, U), where Q and U are
parameters describing the polarization state of radiation, provides an image of
magnetized turbulence in diffuse, ionized gas, manifested as a complex
filamentary web of discontinuities in gas density and magnetic field. Through
comparison with simulations, we demonstrate that turbulence in the warm, ionized 
medium has a relatively low sonic Mach number, M(s) ≲ 2. The development of
statistical tools for the analysis of polarization gradients will allow accurate 
determinations of the Mach number, Reynolds number and magnetic field strength in
interstellar turbulence over a wide range of conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10446 
PMID: 21976022 


212. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;479(7372):228-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10489.

Active tactile exploration using a brain-machine-brain interface.

O'Doherty JE(1), Lebedev MA, Ifft PJ, Zhuang KZ, Shokur S, Bleuler H, Nicolelis
MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
27708, USA.

Brain-machine interfaces use neuronal activity recorded from the brain to
establish direct communication with external actuators, such as prosthetic arms. 
It is hoped that brain-machine interfaces can be used to restore the normal
sensorimotor functions of the limbs, but so far they have lacked tactile
sensation. Here we report the operation of a brain-machine-brain interface (BMBI)
that both controls the exploratory reaching movements of an actuator and allows
signalling of artificial tactile feedback through intracortical microstimulation 
(ICMS) of the primary somatosensory cortex. Monkeys performed an active
exploration task in which an actuator (a computer cursor or a virtual-reality
arm) was moved using a BMBI that derived motor commands from neuronal ensemble
activity recorded in the primary motor cortex. ICMS feedback occurred whenever
the actuator touched virtual objects. Temporal patterns of ICMS encoded the
artificial tactile properties of each object. Neuronal recordings and ICMS epochs
were temporally multiplexed to avoid interference. Two monkeys operated this BMBI
to search for and distinguish one of three visually identical objects, using the 
virtual-reality arm to identify the unique artificial texture associated with
each. These results suggest that clinical motor neuroprostheses might benefit
from the addition of ICMS feedback to generate artificial somatic perceptions
associated with mechanical, robotic or even virtual prostheses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10489 
PMCID: PMC3236080
PMID: 21976021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2011 Oct 5;478(7369):395-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10454.

Metabolic priming by a secreted fungal effector.

Djamei A(1), Schipper K, Rabe F, Ghosh A, Vincon V, Kahnt J, Osorio S, Tohge T,
Fernie AR, Feussner I, Feussner K, Meinicke P, Stierhof YD, Schwarz H, Macek B,
Mann M, Kahmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Karl-von-Frisch-Straße 10, 
D-35043 Marburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Dec;9(12):832-3.

Maize smut caused by the fungus Ustilago maydis is a widespread disease
characterized by the development of large plant tumours. U. maydis is a
biotrophic pathogen that requires living plant tissue for its development and
establishes an intimate interaction zone between fungal hyphae and the plant
plasma membrane. U. maydis actively suppresses plant defence responses by
secreted protein effectors. Its effector repertoire comprises at least 386 genes 
mostly encoding proteins of unknown function and expressed exclusively during the
biotrophic stage. The U. maydis secretome also contains about 150 proteins with
probable roles in fungal nutrition, fungal cell wall modification and host
penetration as well as proteins unlikely to act in the fungal-host interface like
a chorismate mutase. Chorismate mutases are key enzymes of the shikimate pathway 
and catalyse the conversion of chorismate to prephenate, the precursor for
tyrosine and phenylalanine synthesis. Root-knot nematodes inject a secreted
chorismate mutase into plant cells likely to affect development. Here we show
that the chorismate mutase Cmu1 secreted by U. maydis is a virulence factor. The 
enzyme is taken up by plant cells, can spread to neighbouring cells and changes
the metabolic status of these cells through metabolic priming. Secreted
chorismate mutases are found in many plant-associated microbes and might serve as
general tools for host manipulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10454 
PMID: 21976020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 2011 Oct 2;478(7370):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10509.

Inhibition of BET recruitment to chromatin as an effective treatment for
MLL-fusion leukaemia.

Dawson MA(1), Prinjha RK, Dittmann A, Giotopoulos G, Bantscheff M, Chan WI,
Robson SC, Chung CW, Hopf C, Savitski MM, Huthmacher C, Gudgin E, Lugo D, Beinke 
S, Chapman TD, Roberts EJ, Soden PE, Auger KR, Mirguet O, Doehner K, Delwel R,
Burnett AK, Jeffrey P, Drewes G, Lee K, Huntly BJ, Kouzarides T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research and
Addenbrookes Hospital, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Recurrent chromosomal translocations involving the mixed lineage leukaemia (MLL) 
gene initiate aggressive forms of leukaemia, which are often refractory to
conventional therapies. Many MLL-fusion partners are members of the super
elongation complex (SEC), a critical regulator of transcriptional elongation,
suggesting that aberrant control of this process has an important role in
leukaemia induction. Here we use a global proteomic strategy to demonstrate that 
MLL fusions, as part of SEC and the polymerase-associated factor complex (PAFc), 
are associated with the BET family of acetyl-lysine recognizing, chromatin
'adaptor' proteins. These data provided the basis for therapeutic intervention in
MLL-fusion leukaemia, via the displacement of the BET family of proteins from
chromatin. We show that a novel small molecule inhibitor of the BET family,
GSK1210151A (I-BET151), has profound efficacy against human and murine MLL-fusion
leukaemic cell lines, through the induction of early cell cycle arrest and
apoptosis. I-BET151 treatment in two human leukaemia cell lines with different
MLL fusions alters the expression of a common set of genes whose function may
account for these phenotypic changes. The mode of action of I-BET151 is, at least
in part, due to the inhibition of transcription at key genes (BCL2, C-MYC and
CDK6) through the displacement of BRD3/4, PAFc and SEC components from chromatin.
In vivo studies indicate that I-BET151 has significant therapeutic value,
providing survival benefit in two distinct mouse models of murine MLL-AF9 and
human MLL-AF4 leukaemia. Finally, the efficacy of I-BET151 against human
leukaemia stem cells is demonstrated, providing further evidence of its potent
therapeutic potential. These findings establish the displacement of BET proteins 
from chromatin as a promising epigenetic therapy for these aggressive leukaemias.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10509 
PMCID: PMC3679520
PMID: 21964340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 2011 Oct 2;478(7370):469-75. doi: 10.1038/nature10556.

Unprecedented Arctic ozone loss in 2011.

Manney GL(1), Santee ML, Rex M, Livesey NJ, Pitts MC, Veefkind P, Nash ER,
Wohltmann I, Lehmann R, Froidevaux L, Poole LR, Schoeberl MR, Haffner DP, Davies 
J, Dorokhov V, Gernandt H, Johnson B, Kivi R, Kyrö E, Larsen N, Levelt PF,
Makshtas A, McElroy CT, Nakajima H, Parrondo MC, Tarasick DW, von der Gathen P,
Walker KA, Zinoviev NS.

Author information: 
(1)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA. Gloria.L.Manney@jpl.nasa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 27;478(7370):462-3.

Chemical ozone destruction occurs over both polar regions in local winter-spring.
In the Antarctic, essentially complete removal of lower-stratospheric ozone
currently results in an ozone hole every year, whereas in the Arctic, ozone loss 
is highly variable and has until now been much more limited. Here we demonstrate 
that chemical ozone destruction over the Arctic in early 2011 was--for the first 
time in the observational record--comparable to that in the Antarctic ozone hole.
Unusually long-lasting cold conditions in the Arctic lower stratosphere led to
persistent enhancement in ozone-destroying forms of chlorine and to unprecedented
ozone loss, which exceeded 80 per cent over 18-20 kilometres altitude. Our
results show that Arctic ozone holes are possible even with temperatures much
milder than those in the Antarctic. We cannot at present predict when such severe
Arctic ozone depletion may be matched or exceeded.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10556 
PMID: 21964337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2011 Oct 2;478(7368):209-13. doi: 10.1038/nature10455.

DNA stretching by bacterial initiators promotes replication origin opening.

Duderstadt KE(1), Chuang K, Berger JM.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Graduate Group, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

Many replication initiators form higher-order oligomers that process host
replication origins to promote replisome formation. In addition to dedicated
duplex-DNA-binding domains, cellular initiators possess AAA+ (ATPases associated 
with various cellular activities) elements that drive functions ranging from
protein assembly to origin recognition. In bacteria, the AAA+ domain of the
initiator DnaA has been proposed to assist in single-stranded DNA formation
during origin melting. Here we show crystallographically and in solution that the
ATP-dependent assembly of Aquifex aeolicus DnaA into a spiral oligomer creates a 
continuous surface that allows successive AAA+ domains to bind and extend
single-stranded DNA segments. The mechanism of binding is unexpectedly similar to
that of RecA, a homologous recombination factor, but it differs in that DnaA
promotes a nucleic acid conformation that prevents pairing of a complementary
strand. These findings, combined with strand-displacement assays, indicate that
DnaA opens replication origins by a direct ATP-dependent stretching mechanism.
Comparative studies reveal notable commonalities between the approach used by
DnaA to engage DNA substrates and other, nucleic-acid-dependent, AAA+ systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10455 
PMCID: PMC3192921
PMID: 21964332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 2011 Oct 2;479(7371):127-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10453.

Molecular mechanism of anaerobic ammonium oxidation.

Kartal B(1), Maalcke WJ, de Almeida NM, Cirpus I, Gloerich J, Geerts W, Op den
Camp HJ, Harhangi HR, Janssen-Megens EM, Francoijs KJ, Stunnenberg HG, Keltjens
JT, Jetten MS, Strous M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Water and Wetland Research, Department of Microbiology, Radboud 
University Nijmegen, Heyendaalseweg 135, 6525AJ Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
kartal@science.ru.nl

Two distinct microbial processes, denitrification and anaerobic ammonium
oxidation (anammox), are responsible for the release of fixed nitrogen as
dinitrogen gas (N(2)) to the atmosphere. Denitrification has been studied for
over 100 years and its intermediates and enzymes are well known. Even though
anammox is a key biogeochemical process of equal importance, its molecular
mechanism is unknown, but it was proposed to proceed through hydrazine
(N(2)H(4)). Here we show that N(2)H(4) is produced from the anammox substrates
ammonium and nitrite and that nitric oxide (NO) is the direct precursor of
N(2)H(4). We resolved the genes and proteins central to anammox metabolism and
purified the key enzymes that catalyse N(2)H(4) synthesis and its oxidation to
N(2). These results present a new biochemical reaction forging an N-N bond and
fill a lacuna in our understanding of the biochemical synthesis of the N(2) in
the atmosphere. Furthermore, they reinforce the role of nitric oxide in the
evolution of the nitrogen cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10453 
PMID: 21964329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):570-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10389.

The excitation of solar-like oscillations in a δSct star by efficient envelope
convection.

Antoci V(1), Handler G, Campante TL, Thygesen AO, Moya A, Kallinger T, Stello D, 
Grigahcène A, Kjeldsen H, Bedding TR, Lüftinger T, Christensen-Dalsgaard J,
Catanzaro G, Frasca A, De Cat P, Uytterhoeven K, Bruntt H, Houdek G, Kurtz DW,
Lenz P, Kaiser A, Van Cleve J, Allen C, Clarke BD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Astronomy, University of Vienna, Türkenschanzstrasse 18, A-1180
Vienna, Austria. victoria.antoci@univie.ac.at

Delta Scuti (δSct) stars are opacity-driven pulsators with masses of 1.5-2.5 M⊙, 
their pulsations resulting from the varying ionization of helium. In less massive
stars such as the Sun, convection transports mass and energy through the outer 30
per cent of the star and excites a rich spectrum of resonant acoustic modes.
Based on the solar example, with no firm theoretical basis, models predict that
the convective envelope in δSct stars extends only about 1 per cent of the
radius, but with sufficient energy to excite solar-like oscillations. This was
not observed before the Kepler mission, so the presence of a convective envelope 
in the models has been questioned. Here we report the detection of solar-like
oscillations in the δSct star HD187547, implying that surface convection operates
efficiently in stars about twice as massive as the Sun, as the ad hoc models
predicted.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10389 
PMID: 21918514 


219. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;478(7367):82-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10365.

Detectable radio flares following gravitational waves from mergers of binary
neutron stars.

Nakar E(1), Piran T.

Author information: 
(1)Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics & Astronomy, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. udini@wise.tau.ac.il

Mergers of neutron-star/neutron-star binaries are strong sources of gravitational
waves. They can also launch subrelativistic and mildly relativistic outflows and 
are often assumed to be the sources of short γ-ray bursts. An electromagnetic
signature that persisted for weeks to months after the event would strengthen any
future claim of a detection of gravitational waves. Here we present results of
calculations showing that the interaction of mildly relativistic outflows with
the surrounding medium produces radio flares with peak emission at 1.4 gigahertz 
that persist at detectable (submillijansky) levels for weeks, out to a redshift
of 0.1. Slower subrelativistic outflows produce flares detectable for years at
150 megahertz, as well as at 1.4 gigahertz, from slightly shorter distances. The 
radio transient RT 19870422 (ref. 11) has the properties predicted by our model, 
and its most probable origin is the merger of a compact neutron-star/neutron-star
binary. The lack of radio detections usually associated with short γ-ray bursts
does not constrain the radio transients that we discuss here (from mildly
relativistic and subrelativistic outflows) because short γ-ray burst redshifts
are typically >0.1 and the appropriate timescales (longer than weeks) have not
been sampled.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10365 
PMID: 21964342 


220. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;478(7369):382-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10487.

Corridors of migrating neurons in the human brain and their decline during
infancy.

Sanai N(1), Nguyen T, Ihrie RA, Mirzadeh Z, Tsai HH, Wong M, Gupta N, Berger MS, 
Huang E, Garcia-Verdugo JM, Rowitch DH, Alvarez-Buylla A.

Author information: 
(1)Eli and Edythe Broad Institute of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Nov;12(11):616.
    Nature. 2011 Oct 20;478(7369):333-4.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Nov 4;9(5):385-6.

The subventricular zone of many adult non-human mammals generates large numbers
of new neurons destined for the olfactory bulb. Along the walls of the lateral
ventricles, immature neuronal progeny migrate in tangentially oriented chains
that coalesce into a rostral migratory stream (RMS) connecting the subventricular
zone to the olfactory bulb. The adult human subventricular zone, in contrast,
contains a hypocellular gap layer separating the ependymal lining from a
periventricular ribbon of astrocytes. Some of these subventricular zone
astrocytes can function as neural stem cells in vitro, but their function in vivo
remains controversial. An initial report found few subventricular zone
proliferating cells and rare migrating immature neurons in the RMS of adult
humans. In contrast, a subsequent study indicated robust proliferation and
migration in the human subventricular zone and RMS. Here we find that the infant 
human subventricular zone and RMS contain an extensive corridor of migrating
immature neurons before 18 months of age but, contrary to previous reports, this 
germinal activity subsides in older children and is nearly extinct by adulthood. 
Surprisingly, during this limited window of neurogenesis, not all new neurons in 
the human subventricular zone are destined for the olfactory bulb--we describe a 
major migratory pathway that targets the prefrontal cortex in humans. Together,
these findings reveal robust streams of tangentially migrating immature neurons
in human early postnatal subventricular zone and cortex. These pathways represent
potential targets of neurological injuries affecting neonates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10487 
PMCID: PMC3197903
PMID: 21964341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;478(7368):246-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10439.

Theta-paced flickering between place-cell maps in the hippocampus.

Jezek K(1), Henriksen EJ, Treves A, Moser EI, Moser MB.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for the Biology of Memory,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Olav Kyrres gate 9, MTFS, 7489
Trondheim, Norway. karel.jezek@biomed.cas.cz

The ability to recall discrete memories is thought to depend on the formation of 
attractor states in recurrent neural networks. In such networks, representations 
can be reactivated reliably from subsets of the cues that were present when the
memory was encoded, at the same time as interference from competing
representations is minimized. Theoretical studies have pointed to the recurrent
CA3 system of the hippocampus as a possible attractor network. Consistent with
predictions from these studies, experiments have shown that place representations
in CA3 and downstream CA1 tolerate small changes in the configuration of the
environment but switch to uncorrelated representations when dissimilarities
become larger. However, the kinetics supporting such network transitions, at the 
subsecond timescale, is poorly understood. Here we show in rats that
instantaneous transformation of the spatial context does not change the
hippocampal representation all at once but is followed by temporary bistability
in the discharge activity of CA3 ensembles. Rather than sliding through a
continuum of intermediate activity states, the CA3 network undergoes a short
period of competitive flickering between preformed representations of the past
and present environment before settling on the latter. Network flickers are
extremely fast, often with complete replacement of the active ensemble from one
theta cycle to the next. Within individual cycles, segregation is stronger
towards the end, when firing starts to decline, pointing to the theta cycle as a 
temporal unit for expression of attractor states in the hippocampus. Repetition
of pattern-completion processes across successive theta cycles may facilitate
error correction and enhance discriminative power in the presence of weak and
ambiguous input cues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10439 
PMID: 21964339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;478(7369):387-90. doi: 10.1038/nature10436.

Primary motor cortex underlies multi-joint integration for fast feedback control.

Pruszynski JA(1), Kurtzer I, Nashed JY, Omrani M, Brouwer B, Scott SH.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience Studies, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario,
Canada.

A basic difficulty for the nervous system is integrating locally ambiguous
sensory information to form accurate perceptions about the outside world. This
local-to-global problem is also fundamental to motor control of the arm, because 
complex mechanical interactions between shoulder and elbow allow a particular
amount of motion at one joint to arise from an infinite combination of shoulder
and elbow torques. Here we show, in humans and rhesus monkeys, that a
transcortical pathway through primary motor cortex (M1) resolves this ambiguity
during fast feedback control. We demonstrate that single M1 neurons of behaving
monkeys can integrate shoulder and elbow motion information into motor commands
that appropriately counter the underlying torque within about 50 milliseconds of 
a mechanical perturbation. Moreover, we reveal a causal link between M1
processing and multi-joint integration in humans by showing that shoulder muscle 
responses occurring ∼50 milliseconds after pure elbow displacement can be
potentiated by transcranial magnetic stimulation. Taken together, our results
show that transcortical processing through M1 permits feedback responses to
express a level of sophistication that rivals voluntary control; this provides
neurophysiological support for influential theories positing that voluntary
movement is generated by the intelligent manipulation of sensory feedback.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10436 
PMCID: PMC4974074
PMID: 21964335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;478(7368):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10428.

An olfactory receptor for food-derived odours promotes male courtship in
Drosophila.

Grosjean Y(1), Rytz R, Farine JP, Abuin L, Cortot J, Jefferis GS, Benton R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology and Medicine, University
of Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):190-1.

Many animals attract mating partners through the release of volatile sex
pheromones, which can convey information on the species, gender and receptivity
of the sender to induce innate courtship and mating behaviours by the receiver.
Male Drosophila melanogaster fruitflies display stereotyped reproductive
behaviours towards females, and these behaviours are controlled by the neural
circuitry expressing male-specific isoforms of the transcription factor Fruitless
(FRU(M)). However, the volatile pheromone ligands, receptors and olfactory
sensory neurons (OSNs) that promote male courtship have not been identified in
this important model organism. Here we describe a novel courtship function of
Ionotropic receptor 84a (IR84a), which is a member of the chemosensory ionotropic
glutamate receptor family, in a previously uncharacterized population of
FRU(M)-positive OSNs. IR84a-expressing neurons are activated not by fly-derived
chemicals but by the aromatic odours phenylacetic acid and phenylacetaldehyde,
which are widely found in fruit and other plant tissues that serve as food
sources and oviposition sites for drosophilid flies. Mutation of Ir84a abolishes 
both odour-evoked and spontaneous electrophysiological activity in these neurons 
and markedly reduces male courtship behaviour. Conversely, male courtship is
increased--in an IR84a-dependent manner--in the presence of phenylacetic acid but
not in the presence of another fruit odour that does not activate IR84a.
Interneurons downstream of IR84a-expressing OSNs innervate a pheromone-processing
centre in the brain. Whereas IR84a orthologues and phenylacetic-acid-responsive
neurons are present in diverse drosophilid species, IR84a is absent from insects 
that rely on long-range sex pheromones. Our results suggest a model in which
IR84a couples food presence to the activation of the fru(M) courtship circuitry
in fruitflies. These findings reveal an unusual but effective evolutionary
solution to coordinate feeding and oviposition site selection with reproductive
behaviours through a specific sensory pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10428 
PMID: 21964331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;477(7366):611-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10488.

Conformational changes in the G protein Gs induced by the β2 adrenergic receptor.

Chung KY(1), Rasmussen SG, Liu T, Li S, DeVree BT, Chae PS, Calinski D, Kobilka
BK, Woods VL Jr, Sunahara RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):540-1.

G protein-coupled receptors represent the largest family of membrane receptors
that instigate signalling through nucleotide exchange on heterotrimeric G
proteins. Nucleotide exchange, or more precisely, GDP dissociation from the G
protein α-subunit, is the key step towards G protein activation and initiation of
downstream signalling cascades. Despite a wealth of biochemical and biophysical
studies on inactive and active conformations of several heterotrimeric G
proteins, the molecular underpinnings of G protein activation remain elusive. To 
characterize this mechanism, we applied peptide amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange
mass spectrometry to probe changes in the structure of the heterotrimeric bovine 
G protein, Gs (the stimulatory G protein for adenylyl cyclase) on formation of a 
complex with agonist-bound human β(2) adrenergic receptor (β(2)AR). Here we
report structural links between the receptor-binding surface and the
nucleotide-binding pocket of Gs that undergo higher levels of hydrogen-deuterium 
exchange than would be predicted from the crystal structure of the β(2)AR-Gs
complex. Together with X-ray crystallographic and electron microscopic data of
the β(2)AR-Gs complex (from refs 2, 3), we provide a rationale for a mechanism of
nucleotide exchange, whereby the receptor perturbs the structure of the
amino-terminal region of the α-subunit of Gs and consequently alters the 'P-loop'
that binds the β-phosphate in GDP. As with the Ras family of
small-molecular-weight G proteins, P-loop stabilization and β-phosphate
coordination are key determinants of GDP (and GTP) binding affinity.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10488 
PMCID: PMC3448949
PMID: 21956331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;477(7366):579-82. doi: 10.1038/nature10421.

Interannual variability in the oxygen isotopes of atmospheric CO2 driven by El
Niño.

Welp LR(1), Keeling RF, Meijer HA, Bollenbacher AF, Piper SC, Yoshimura K,
Francey RJ, Allison CE, Wahlen M.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego, 9500 
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0244, USA. lwelp@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):547-8.

The stable isotope ratios of atmospheric CO(2) ((18)O/(16)O and (13)C/(12)C) have
been monitored since 1977 to improve our understanding of the global carbon
cycle, because biosphere-atmosphere exchange fluxes affect the different atomic
masses in a measurable way. Interpreting the (18)O/(16)O variability has proved
difficult, however, because oxygen isotopes in CO(2) are influenced by both the
carbon cycle and the water cycle. Previous attention focused on the decreasing
(18)O/(16)O ratio in the 1990s, observed by the global Cooperative Air Sampling
Network of the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Earth System
Research Laboratory. This decrease was attributed variously to a number of
processes including an increase in Northern Hemisphere soil respiration; a global
increase in C(4) crops at the expense of C(3) forests; and environmental
conditions, such as atmospheric turbulence and solar radiation, that affect CO(2)
exchange between leaves and the atmosphere. Here we present 30 years' worth of
data on (18)O/(16)O in CO(2) from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography global 
flask network and show that the interannual variability is strongly related to
the El Niño/Southern Oscillation. We suggest that the redistribution of moisture 
and rainfall in the tropics during an El Niño increases the (18)O/(16)O ratio of 
precipitation and plant water, and that this signal is then passed on to
atmospheric CO(2) by biosphere-atmosphere gas exchange. We show how the decay
time of the El Niño anomaly in this data set can be useful in constraining global
gross primary production. Our analysis shows a rapid recovery from El Niño
events, implying a shorter cycling time of CO(2) with respect to the terrestrial 
biosphere and oceans than previously estimated. Our analysis suggests that
current estimates of global gross primary production, of 120 petagrams of carbon 
per year, may be too low, and that a best guess of 150-175 petagrams of carbon
per year better reflects the observed rapid cycling of CO(2). Although still
tentative, such a revision would present a new benchmark by which to evaluate
global biospheric carbon cycling models.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10421 
PMID: 21956330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2011 Sep 28;477(7366):567-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10445.

Gravitational redshift of galaxies in clusters as predicted by general
relativity.

Wojtak R(1), Hansen SH, Hjorth J.

Author information: 
(1)Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane
Maries Vej 30, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark. wojtak@dark-cosmology.dk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):541-3.

The theoretical framework of cosmology is mainly defined by gravity, of which
general relativity is the current model. Recent tests of general relativity
within the Lambda Cold Dark Matter (ΛCDM) model have found a concordance between 
predictions and the observations of the growth rate and clustering of the cosmic 
web. General relativity has not hitherto been tested on cosmological scales
independently of the assumptions of the ΛCDM model. Here we report an observation
of the gravitational redshift of light coming from galaxies in clusters at the 99
per cent confidence level, based on archival data. Our measurement agrees with
the predictions of general relativity and its modification created to explain
cosmic acceleration without the need for dark energy (the f(R) theory), but is
inconsistent with alternative models designed to avoid the presence of dark
matter.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10445 
PMID: 21956329 


227. Nature. 2011 Sep 25;478(7368):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature10435.

Structure of human mitochondrial RNA polymerase.

Ringel R(1), Sologub M, Morozov YI, Litonin D, Cramer P, Temiakov D.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Center and Department of Biochemistry, Center for Integrated Protein
Science Munich, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Feodor-Lynen-Strasse 25, 
81377 Munich, Germany.

Transcription of the mitochondrial genome is performed by a single-subunit RNA
polymerase (mtRNAP) that is distantly related to the RNAP of bacteriophage T7,
the pol I family of DNA polymerases, and single-subunit RNAPs from chloroplasts. 
Whereas T7 RNAP can initiate transcription by itself, mtRNAP requires the factors
TFAM and TFB2M for binding and melting promoter DNA. TFAM is an abundant protein 
that binds and bends promoter DNA 15-40 base pairs upstream of the transcription 
start site, and stimulates the recruitment of mtRNAP and TFB2M to the promoter.
TFB2M assists mtRNAP in promoter melting and reaches the active site of mtRNAP to
interact with the first base pair of the RNA-DNA hybrid. Here we report the X-ray
structure of human mtRNAP at 2.5 Å resolution, which reveals a T7-like catalytic 
carboxy-terminal domain, an amino-terminal domain that remotely resembles the T7 
promoter-binding domain, a novel pentatricopeptide repeat domain, and a flexible 
N-terminal extension. The pentatricopeptide repeat domain sequesters an AT-rich
recognition loop, which binds promoter DNA in T7 RNAP, probably explaining the
need for TFAM during promoter binding. Consistent with this, substitution of a
conserved arginine residue in the AT-rich recognition loop, or release of this
loop by deletion of the N-terminal part of mtRNAP, had no effect on
transcription. The fingers domain and the intercalating hairpin, which melts DNA 
in phage RNAPs, are repositioned, explaining the need for TFB2M during promoter
melting. Our results provide a new venue for the mechanistic analysis of
mitochondrial transcription. They also indicate how an early phage-like mtRNAP
lost functions in promoter binding and melting, which were provided by initiation
factors in trans during evolution, to enable mitochondrial gene regulation and
the adaptation of mitochondrial function to changes in the environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10435 
PMID: 21947009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Nature. 2011 Sep 25;479(7373):423-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10537.

Structural basis of RNA recognition and activation by innate immune receptor
RIG-I.

Jiang F(1), Ramanathan A, Miller MT, Tang GQ, Gale M Jr, Patel SS, Marcotrigiano 
J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, Department of Chemistry and
Chemical Biology, Rutgers University, 679 Hoes Lane West, Piscataway, New Jersey 
08854, USA.

Retinoic-acid-inducible gene-I (RIG-I; also known as DDX58) is a cytoplasmic
pathogen recognition receptor that recognizes pathogen-associated molecular
pattern (PAMP) motifs to differentiate between viral and cellular RNAs. RIG-I is 
activated by blunt-ended double-stranded (ds)RNA with or without a
5'-triphosphate (ppp), by single-stranded RNA marked by a 5'-ppp and by
polyuridine sequences. Upon binding to such PAMP motifs, RIG-I initiates a
signalling cascade that induces innate immune defences and inflammatory cytokines
to establish an antiviral state. The RIG-I pathway is highly regulated and
aberrant signalling leads to apoptosis, altered cell differentiation,
inflammation, autoimmune diseases and cancer. The helicase and repressor domains 
(RD) of RIG-I recognize dsRNA and 5'-ppp RNA to activate the two amino-terminal
caspase recruitment domains (CARDs) for signalling. Here, to understand the
synergy between the helicase and the RD for RNA binding, and the contribution of 
ATP hydrolysis to RIG-I activation, we determined the structure of human RIG-I
helicase-RD in complex with dsRNA and an ATP analogue. The helicase-RD organizes 
into a ring around dsRNA, capping one end, while contacting both strands using
previously uncharacterized motifs to recognize dsRNA. Small-angle X-ray
scattering, limited proteolysis and differential scanning fluorimetry indicate
that RIG-I is in an extended and flexible conformation that compacts upon binding
RNA. These results provide a detailed view of the role of helicase in dsRNA
recognition, the synergy between the RD and the helicase for RNA binding and the 
organization of full-length RIG-I bound to dsRNA, and provide evidence of a
conformational change upon RNA binding. The RIG-I helicase-RD structure is
consistent with dsRNA translocation without unwinding and cooperative binding to 
RNA. The structure yields unprecedented insight into innate immunity and has a
broader impact on other areas of biology, including RNA interference and DNA
repair, which utilize homologous helicase domains within DICER and FANCM.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10537 
PMCID: PMC3430514
PMID: 21947008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nature. 2011 Sep 25;478(7367):119-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10431.

Control of flowering and storage organ formation in potato by FLOWERING LOCUS T.

Navarro C(1), Abelenda JA, Cruz-Oró E, Cuéllar CA, Tamaki S, Silva J, Shimamoto
K, Prat S.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética Molecular de Plantas, Centro Nacional de
Biotecnología-CSIC, Calle Darwin 3, 28049 Madrid, Spain.

Seasonal fluctuations in day length regulate important aspects of plant
development such as the flowering transition or, in potato (Solanum tuberosum),
the formation of tubers. Day length is sensed by the leaves, which produce a
mobile signal transported to the shoot apex or underground stems to induce a
flowering transition or, respectively, a tuberization transition. Work in
Arabidopsis, tomato and rice (Oryza sativa) identified the mobile FLOWERING LOCUS
T (FT) protein as a main component of the long-range 'florigen', or flowering
hormone, signal. Here we show that expression of the Hd3a gene, the FT orthologue
in rice, induces strict short-day potato types to tuberize in long days. Tuber
induction is graft transmissible and the Hd3a-GFP protein is detected in the
stolons of grafted plants, transport of the fusion protein thus correlating with 
tuber formation. We provide evidence showing that the potato floral and
tuberization transitions are controlled by two different FT-like paralogues
(StSP3D and StSP6A) that respond to independent environmental cues, and show that
an autorelay mechanism involving CONSTANS modulates expression of the
tuberization-control StSP6A gene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10431 
PMID: 21947007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Nature. 2011 Sep 25;478(7370):515-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10429.

STING is a direct innate immune sensor of cyclic di-GMP.

Burdette DL(1), Monroe KM, Sotelo-Troha K, Iwig JS, Eckert B, Hyodo M, Hayakawa
Y, Vance RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

The innate immune system detects infection by using germline-encoded receptors
that are specific for conserved microbial molecules. The recognition of microbial
ligands leads to the production of cytokines, such as type I interferons (IFNs), 
that are essential for successful pathogen elimination. Cytosolic detection of
pathogen-derived DNA is one major mechanism of inducing IFN production, and this 
process requires signalling through TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1) and its
downstream transcription factor, IFN-regulatory factor 3 (IRF3). In addition, a
transmembrane protein called STING (stimulator of IFN genes; also known as MITA, 
ERIS, MPYS and TMEM173) functions as an essential signalling adaptor, linking the
cytosolic detection of DNA to the TBK1-IRF3 signalling axis. Recently, unique
nucleic acids called cyclic dinucleotides, which function as conserved signalling
molecules in bacteria, have also been shown to induce a STING-dependent type I
IFN response. However, a mammalian sensor of cyclic dinucleotides has not been
identified. Here we report evidence that STING itself is an innate immune sensor 
of cyclic dinucleotides. We demonstrate that STING binds directly to
radiolabelled cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP), and we show that
unlabelled cyclic dinucleotides, but not other nucleotides or nucleic acids,
compete with c-di-GMP for binding to STING. Furthermore, we identify mutations in
STING that selectively affect the response to cyclic dinucleotides without
affecting the response to DNA. Thus, STING seems to function as a direct sensor
of cyclic dinucleotides, in addition to its established role as a signalling
adaptor in the IFN response to cytosolic DNA. Cyclic dinucleotides have shown
promise as novel vaccine adjuvants and immunotherapeutics, and our results
provide insight into the mechanism by which cyclic dinucleotides are sensed by
the innate immune system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10429 
PMCID: PMC3203314
PMID: 21947006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 2011 Sep 25;478(7367):110-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10426.

Dynamics of human adipose lipid turnover in health and metabolic disease.

Arner P(1), Bernard S, Salehpour M, Possnert G, Liebl J, Steier P, Buchholz BA,
Eriksson M, Arner E, Hauner H, Skurk T, Rydén M, Frayn KN, Spalding KL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, SE-141 86 Stockholm,
Sweden. peter.arner@ki.se

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Nov 2;14(5):569-70.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011 Dec;7(12):694.

Adipose tissue mass is determined by the storage and removal of triglycerides in 
adipocytes. Little is known, however, about adipose lipid turnover in humans in
health and pathology. To study this in vivo, here we determined lipid age by
measuring (14)C derived from above ground nuclear bomb tests in adipocyte lipids.
We report that during the average ten-year lifespan of human adipocytes,
triglycerides are renewed six times. Lipid age is independent of adipocyte size, 
is very stable across a wide range of adult ages and does not differ between
genders. Adipocyte lipid turnover, however, is strongly related to conditions
with disturbed lipid metabolism. In obesity, triglyceride removal rate (lipolysis
followed by oxidation) is decreased and the amount of triglycerides stored each
year is increased. In contrast, both lipid removal and storage rates are
decreased in non-obese patients diagnosed with the most common hereditary form of
dyslipidaemia, familial combined hyperlipidaemia. Lipid removal rate is
positively correlated with the capacity of adipocytes to break down
triglycerides, as assessed through lipolysis, and is inversely related to insulin
resistance. Our data support a mechanism in which adipocyte lipid storage and
removal have different roles in health and pathology. High storage but low
triglyceride removal promotes fat tissue accumulation and obesity. Reduction of
both triglyceride storage and removal decreases lipid shunting through adipose
tissue and thus promotes dyslipidaemia. We identify adipocyte lipid turnover as a
novel target for prevention and treatment of metabolic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10426 
PMCID: PMC3773935
PMID: 21947005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):466-70. doi: 10.1038/nature10373.

Broad neutralization coverage of HIV by multiple highly potent antibodies.

Walker LM(1), Huber M, Doores KJ, Falkowska E, Pejchal R, Julien JP, Wang SK,
Ramos A, Chan-Hui PY, Moyle M, Mitcham JL, Hammond PW, Olsen OA, Phung P, Fling
S, Wong CH, Phogat S, Wrin T, Simek MD; Protocol G Principal Investigators, Koff 
WC, Wilson IA, Burton DR, Poignard P.

Collaborators: Miiro G, Serwanga J, Pozniak A, McPhee D, Manigart O, Mwananyanda 
L, Karita E, Inwoley A, Jaoko W, DeHovitz J, Bekker LG, Pitisuttithum P, Paris R,
Allen S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Microbial Science and IAVI Neutralizing Antibody 
Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):416-7.

Broadly neutralizing antibodies against highly variable viral pathogens are much 
sought after to treat or protect against global circulating viruses. Here we
probed the neutralizing antibody repertoires of four human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV)-infected donors with remarkably broad and potent neutralizing responses and
rescued 17 new monoclonal antibodies that neutralize broadly across clades. Many 
of the new monoclonal antibodies are almost tenfold more potent than the recently
described PG9, PG16 and VRC01 broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and
100-fold more potent than the original prototype HIV broadly neutralizing
monoclonal antibodies. The monoclonal antibodies largely recapitulate the
neutralization breadth found in the corresponding donor serum and many recognize 
novel epitopes on envelope (Env) glycoprotein gp120, illuminating new targets for
vaccine design. Analysis of neutralization by the full complement of anti-HIV
broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies now available reveals that certain
combinations of antibodies should offer markedly more favourable coverage of the 
enormous diversity of global circulating viruses than others and these
combinations might be sought in active or passive immunization regimes. Overall, 
the isolation of multiple HIV broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies from
several donors that, in aggregate, provide broad coverage at low concentrations
is a highly positive indicator for the eventual design of an effective
antibody-based HIV vaccine.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10373 
PMCID: PMC3393110
PMID: 21849977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;477(7365):486-489. doi: 10.1038/nature10402.

Structures of the RNA-guided surveillance complex from a bacterial immune system.

Wiedenheft B(#)(1)(2), Lander GC(#)(3), Zhou K(1)(2), Jore MM(4), Brouns SJJ(4), 
van der Oost J(4), Doudna JA(1)(2)(5)(6), Nogales E(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA.
(3)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Microbiology, Department of Agrotechnology and Food Sciences,
Wageningen University, Dreijenplein 10, 6703 HB Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(6)Physical Biosciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Bacteria and archaea acquire resistance to viruses and plasmids by integrating
short fragments of foreign DNA into clustered regularly interspaced short
palindromic repeats (CRISPRs). These repetitive loci maintain a genetic record of
all prior encounters with foreign transgressors. CRISPRs are transcribed and the 
long primary transcript is processed into a library of short CRISPR-derived RNAs 
(crRNAs) that contain a unique sequence complementary to a foreign nucleic-acid
challenger. In Escherichia coli, crRNAs are incorporated into a multisubunit
surveillance complex called Cascade (CRISPR-associated complex for antiviral
defence), which is required for protection against bacteriophages. Here we use
cryo-electron microscopy to determine the subnanometre structures of Cascade
before and after binding to a target sequence. These structures reveal a
sea-horse-shaped architecture in which the crRNA is displayed along a helical
arrangement of protein subunits that protect the crRNA from degradation while
maintaining its availability for base pairing. Cascade engages invading nucleic
acids through high-affinity base-pairing interactions near the 5' end of the
crRNA. Base pairing extends along the crRNA, resulting in a series of short
helical segments that trigger a concerted conformational change. This
conformational rearrangement may serve as a signal that recruits a trans-acting
nuclease (Cas3) for destruction of invading nucleic-acid sequences.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10402 
PMCID: PMC4165517
PMID: 21938068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;477(7365):482-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10296.

Absence of effects of Sir2 overexpression on lifespan in C. elegans and
Drosophila.

Burnett C(1), Valentini S, Cabreiro F, Goss M, Somogyvári M, Piper MD, Hoddinott 
M, Sutphin GL, Leko V, McElwee JJ, Vazquez-Manrique RP, Orfila AM, Ackerman D, Au
C, Vinti G, Riesen M, Howard K, Neri C, Bedalov A, Kaeberlein M, Soti C,
Partridge L, Gems D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing and Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):410-1.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Nov;12(11):742.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Nov;12(11):688.

Overexpression of sirtuins (NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylases) has been
reported to increase lifespan in budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae),
Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. Studies of the effects of
genes on ageing are vulnerable to confounding effects of genetic background. Here
we re-examined the reported effects of sirtuin overexpression on ageing and found
that standardization of genetic background and the use of appropriate controls
abolished the apparent effects in both C. elegans and Drosophila. In C. elegans, 
outcrossing of a line with high-level sir-2.1 overexpression abrogated the
longevity increase, but did not abrogate sir-2.1 overexpression. Instead,
longevity co-segregated with a second-site mutation affecting sensory neurons.
Outcrossing of a line with low-copy-number sir-2.1 overexpression also abrogated 
longevity. A Drosophila strain with ubiquitous overexpression of dSir2 using the 
UAS-GAL4 system was long-lived relative to wild-type controls, as previously
reported, but was not long-lived relative to the appropriate transgenic controls,
and nor was a new line with stronger overexpression of dSir2. These findings
underscore the importance of controlling for genetic background and for the
mutagenic effects of transgene insertions in studies of genetic effects on
lifespan. The life-extending effect of dietary restriction on ageing in
Drosophila has also been reported to be dSir2 dependent. We found that dietary
restriction increased fly lifespan independently of dSir2. Our findings do not
rule out a role for sirtuins in determination of metazoan lifespan, but they do
cast doubt on the robustness of the previously reported effects of sirtuins on
lifespan in C. elegans and Drosophila.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10296 
PMCID: PMC3188402
PMID: 21938067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;477(7365):443-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10447.

Bioinspired self-repairing slippery surfaces with pressure-stable omniphobicity.

Wong TS(1), Kang SH, Tang SK, Smythe EJ, Hatton BD, Grinthal A, Aizenberg J.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Wyss Institute for Biologically
Inspired Engineering, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):412-3.

Creating a robust synthetic surface that repels various liquids would have broad 
technological implications for areas ranging from biomedical devices and fuel
transport to architecture but has proved extremely challenging. Inspirations from
natural nonwetting structures, particularly the leaves of the lotus, have led to 
the development of liquid-repellent microtextured surfaces that rely on the
formation of a stable air-liquid interface. Despite over a decade of intense
research, these surfaces are, however, still plagued with problems that restrict 
their practical applications: limited oleophobicity with high contact angle
hysteresis, failure under pressure and upon physical damage, inability to
self-heal and high production cost. To address these challenges, here we report a
strategy to create self-healing, slippery liquid-infused porous surface(s)
(SLIPS) with exceptional liquid- and ice-repellency, pressure stability and
enhanced optical transparency. Our approach-inspired by Nepenthes pitcher
plants-is conceptually different from the lotus effect, because we use
nano/microstructured substrates to lock in place the infused lubricating fluid.
We define the requirements for which the lubricant forms a stable, defect-free
and inert 'slippery' interface. This surface outperforms its natural counterparts
and state-of-the-art synthetic liquid-repellent surfaces in its capability to
repel various simple and complex liquids (water, hydrocarbons, crude oil and
blood), maintain low contact angle hysteresis (<2.5°), quickly restore
liquid-repellency after physical damage (within 0.1-1 s), resist ice adhesion,
and function at high pressures (up to about 680 atm). We show that these
properties are insensitive to the precise geometry of the underlying substrate,
making our approach applicable to various inexpensive, low-surface-energy
structured materials (such as porous Teflon membrane). We envision that these
slippery surfaces will be useful in fluid handling and transportation, optical
sensing, medicine, and as self-cleaning and anti-fouling materials operating in
extreme environments.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10447 
PMID: 21938066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;477(7365):439-42. doi: 10.1038/nature10444.

On-demand single-electron transfer between distant quantum dots.

McNeil RP(1), Kataoka M, Ford CJ, Barnes CH, Anderson D, Jones GA, Farrer I,
Ritchie DA.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, J. J. Thomson Avenue, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):414.

Single-electron circuits of the future, consisting of a network of quantum dots, 
will require a mechanism to transport electrons from one functional part of the
circuit to another. For example, in a quantum computer decoherence and circuit
complexity can be reduced by separating quantum bit (qubit) manipulation from
measurement and by providing a means of transporting electrons between the
corresponding parts of the circuit. Highly controlled tunnelling between
neighbouring dots has been demonstrated, and our ability to manipulate electrons 
in single- and double-dot systems is improving rapidly. For distances greater
than a few hundred nanometres, neither free propagation nor tunnelling is viable 
while maintaining confinement of single electrons. Here we show how a single
electron may be captured in a surface acoustic wave minimum and transferred from 
one quantum dot to a second, unoccupied, dot along a long, empty channel. The
transfer direction may be reversed and the same electron moved back and forth
more than sixty times-a cumulative distance of 0.25 mm-without error. Such
on-chip transfer extends communication between quantum dots to a range that may
allow the integration of discrete quantum information processing components and
devices.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10444 
PMID: 21938065 


237. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;477(7365):435-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10416.

Electrons surfing on a sound wave as a platform for quantum optics with flying
electrons.

Hermelin S(1), Takada S, Yamamoto M, Tarucha S, Wieck AD, Saminadayar L, Bäuerle 
C, Meunier T.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Néel, CNRS, and Université Joseph Fourier, 38042 Grenoble, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):414.

Electrons in a metal are indistinguishable particles that interact strongly with 
other electrons and their environment. Isolating and detecting a single flying
electron after propagation, in a similar manner to quantum optics experiments
with single photons, is therefore a challenging task. So far only a few
experiments have been performed in a high-mobility two-dimensional electron gas
in which the electron propagates almost ballistically. In these previous works,
flying electrons were detected by means of the current generated by an ensemble
of electrons, and electron correlations were encrypted in the current noise. Here
we demonstrate the experimental realization of high-efficiency single-electron
source and detector for a single electron propagating isolated from the other
electrons through a one-dimensional channel. The moving potential is excited by a
surface acoustic wave, which carries the single electron along the
one-dimensional channel at a speed of 3 μm ns(-1). When this quantum channel is
placed between two quantum dots several micrometres apart, a single electron can 
be transported from one quantum dot to the other with quantum efficiencies of
emission and detection of 96% and 92%, respectively. Furthermore, the transfer of
the electron can be triggered on a timescale shorter than the coherence time
T(2)* of GaAs spin qubits. Our work opens new avenues with which to study the
teleportation of a single electron spin and the distant interaction between
spatially separated qubits in a condensed-matter system.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10416 
PMID: 21938064 


238. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;478(7367):57-63. doi: 10.1038/nature10423.

Deep sequencing reveals 50 novel genes for recessive cognitive disorders.

Najmabadi H(1), Hu H, Garshasbi M, Zemojtel T, Abedini SS, Chen W, Hosseini M,
Behjati F, Haas S, Jamali P, Zecha A, Mohseni M, Püttmann L, Vahid LN, Jensen C, 
Moheb LA, Bienek M, Larti F, Mueller I, Weissmann R, Darvish H, Wrogemann K,
Hadavi V, Lipkowitz B, Esmaeeli-Nieh S, Wieczorek D, Kariminejad R, Firouzabadi
SG, Cohen M, Fattahi Z, Rost I, Mojahedi F, Hertzberg C, Dehghan A, Rajab A,
Banavandi MJ, Hoffer J, Falah M, Musante L, Kalscheuer V, Ullmann R, Kuss AW,
Tzschach A, Kahrizi K, Ropers HH.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation
Sciences, 19857 Tehran, Iran.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Nov;12(11):743.

Common diseases are often complex because they are genetically heterogeneous,
with many different genetic defects giving rise to clinically indistinguishable
phenotypes. This has been amply documented for early-onset cognitive impairment, 
or intellectual disability, one of the most complex disorders known and a very
important health care problem worldwide. More than 90 different gene defects have
been identified for X-chromosome-linked intellectual disability alone, but
research into the more frequent autosomal forms of intellectual disability is
still in its infancy. To expedite the molecular elucidation of
autosomal-recessive intellectual disability, we have now performed homozygosity
mapping, exon enrichment and next-generation sequencing in 136 consanguineous
families with autosomal-recessive intellectual disability from Iran and
elsewhere. This study, the largest published so far, has revealed additional
mutations in 23 genes previously implicated in intellectual disability or related
neurological disorders, as well as single, probably disease-causing variants in
50 novel candidate genes. Proteins encoded by several of these genes interact
directly with products of known intellectual disability genes, and many are
involved in fundamental cellular processes such as transcription and translation,
cell-cycle control, energy metabolism and fatty-acid synthesis, which seem to be 
pivotal for normal brain development and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10423 
PMID: 21937992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;478(7370):511-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10438.

A natural polymorphism alters odour and DEET sensitivity in an insect odorant
receptor.

Pellegrino M(1), Steinbach N, Stensmyr MC, Hansson BS, Vosshall LB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Behaviour, The Rockefeller University, 1230
York Avenue, Box 63, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Blood-feeding insects such as mosquitoes are efficient vectors of human
infectious diseases because they are strongly attracted by body heat, carbon
dioxide and odours produced by their vertebrate hosts. Insect repellents
containing DEET (N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide) are highly effective, but the
mechanism by which this chemical wards off biting insects remains controversial
despite decades of investigation. DEET seems to act both at close range as a
contact chemorepellent, by affecting insect gustatory receptors, and at long
range, by affecting the olfactory system. Two opposing mechanisms for the
observed behavioural effects of DEET in the gas phase have been proposed: that
DEET interferes with the olfactory system to block host odour recognition and
that DEET actively repels insects by activating olfactory neurons that elicit
avoidance behaviour. Here we show that DEET functions as a modulator of the
odour-gated ion channel formed by the insect odorant receptor complex. The
functional insect odorant receptor complex consists of a common co-receptor, ORCO
(ref. 15) (formerly called OR83B; ref. 16), and one or more variable odorant
receptor subunits that confer odour selectivity. DEET acts on this complex to
potentiate or inhibit odour-evoked activity or to inhibit odour-evoked
suppression of spontaneous activity. This modulation depends on the specific
odorant receptor and the concentration and identity of the odour ligand. We
identify a single amino-acid polymorphism in the second transmembrane domain of
receptor OR59B in a Drosophila melanogaster strain from Brazil that renders OR59B
insensitive to inhibition by the odour ligand and modulation by DEET. Our data
indicate that natural variation can modify the sensitivity of an odour-specific
insect odorant receptor to odour ligands and DEET. Furthermore, they support the 
hypothesis that DEET acts as a molecular 'confusant' that scrambles the insect
odour code, and provide a compelling explanation for the broad-spectrum efficacy 
of DEET against multiple insect species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10438 
PMCID: PMC3203342
PMID: 21937991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;478(7368):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10434.

Peripheral education of the immune system by colonic commensal microbiota.

Lathrop SK(1), Bloom SM, Rao SM, Nutsch K, Lio CW, Santacruz N, Peterson DA,
Stappenbeck TS, Hsieh CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2012 Aug;12(8):1967.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Nov;11(11):721.
    Am J Transplant. 2013 Apr;13(4):829.

The instruction of the immune system to be tolerant of self, thereby preventing
autoimmunity, is facilitated by the education of T cells in a specialized organ, 
the thymus, in which self-reactive cells are either eliminated or differentiated 
into tolerogenic Foxp3(+) regulatory T (T(reg)) cells. However, it is unknown
whether T cells are also educated to be tolerant of foreign antigens, such as
those from commensal bacteria, to prevent immunopathology such as inflammatory
bowel disease. Here we show that encounter with commensal microbiota results in
the peripheral generation of T(reg) cells rather than pathogenic effectors. We
observed that colonic T(reg) cells used T-cell antigen receptors (TCRs) different
from those used by T(reg) cells in other locations, implying an important role
for local antigens in shaping the colonic T(reg)-cell population. Many of the
local antigens seemed to be derived from commensal bacteria, on the basis of the 
in vitro reactivity of common colon T(reg) TCRs. These TCRs did not facilitate
thymic T(reg)-cell development, implying that many colonic T(reg) cells arise
instead by means of antigen-driven peripheral T(reg)-cell development. Further
analysis of two of these TCRs by the creation of retroviral bone marrow chimaeras
and a TCR transgenic line revealed that microbiota indigenous to our mouse colony
was required for the generation of colonic T(reg) cells from otherwise naive T
cells. If T cells expressing these TCRs fail to undergo T(reg)-cell development
and instead become effector cells, they have the potential to induce colitis, as 
evidenced by adoptive transfer studies. These results suggest that the efficient 
peripheral generation of antigen-specific populations of T(reg) cells in response
to an individual's microbiota provides important post-thymic education of the
immune system to foreign antigens, thereby providing tolerance to commensal
microbiota.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10434 
PMCID: PMC3192908
PMID: 21937990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;477(7366):574-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10401.

High-fidelity projective read-out of a solid-state spin quantum register.

Robledo L(1), Childress L, Bernien H, Hensen B, Alkemade PF, Hanson R.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute of Nanoscience Delft, Delft University of Technology, PO Box
5046, 2600 GA Delft, The Netherlands.

Initialization and read-out of coupled quantum systems are essential ingredients 
for the implementation of quantum algorithms. Single-shot read-out of the state
of a multi-quantum-bit (multi-qubit) register would allow direct investigation of
quantum correlations (entanglement), and would give access to further key
resources such as quantum error correction and deterministic quantum
teleportation. Although spins in solids are attractive candidates for scalable
quantum information processing, their single-shot detection has been achieved
only for isolated qubits. Here we demonstrate the preparation and measurement of 
a multi-spin quantum register in a low-temperature solid-state system by
implementing resonant optical excitation techniques originally developed in
atomic physics. We achieve high-fidelity read-out of the electronic spin
associated with a single nitrogen-vacancy centre in diamond, and use this
read-out to project up to three nearby nuclear spin qubits onto a well-defined
state. Conversely, we can distinguish the state of the nuclear spins in a single 
shot by mapping it onto, and subsequently measuring, the electronic spin.
Finally, we show compatibility with qubit control: we demonstrate initialization,
coherent manipulation and single-shot read-out in a single experiment on a
two-qubit register, using techniques suitable for extension to larger registers. 
These results pave the way for a test of Bell's inequalities on solid-state spins
and the implementation of measurement-based quantum information protocols.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10401 
PMID: 21937989 


242. Nature. 2011 Sep 21;478(7368):241-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10437.

Molecular organization of vomeronasal chemoreception.

Isogai Y(1), Si S, Pont-Lezica L, Tan T, Kapoor V, Murthy VN, Dulac C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Nov;12(11):618.

The vomeronasal organ (VNO) has a key role in mediating the social and defensive 
responses of many terrestrial vertebrates to species- and sex-specific
chemosignals. More than 250 putative pheromone receptors have been identified in 
the mouse VNO, but the nature of the signals detected by individual VNO receptors
has not yet been elucidated. To gain insight into the molecular logic of VNO
detection leading to mating, aggression or defensive responses, we sought to
uncover the response profiles of individual vomeronasal receptors to a wide range
of animal cues. Here we describe the repertoire of behaviourally and
physiologically relevant stimuli detected by a large number of individual
vomeronasal receptors in mice, and define a global map of vomeronasal signal
detection. We demonstrate that the two classes (V1R and V2R) of vomeronasal
receptors use fundamentally different strategies to encode chemosensory
information, and that distinct receptor subfamilies have evolved towards the
specific recognition of certain animal groups or chemical structures. The
association of large subsets of vomeronasal receptors with cognate, ethologically
and physiologically relevant stimuli establishes the molecular foundation of
vomeronasal information coding, and opens new avenues for further investigating
the neural mechanisms underlying behaviour specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10437 
PMCID: PMC3192931
PMID: 21937988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2011 Sep 20;480(7376):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10555.

Spontaneous epigenetic variation in the Arabidopsis thaliana methylome.

Becker C(1), Hagmann J, Müller J, Koenig D, Stegle O, Borgwardt K, Weigel D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Developmental
Biology, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Heritable epigenetic polymorphisms, such as differential cytosine methylation,
can underlie phenotypic variation. Moreover, wild strains of the plant
Arabidopsis thaliana differ in many epialleles, and these can influence the
expression of nearby genes. However, to understand their role in evolution, it is
imperative to ascertain the emergence rate and stability of epialleles, including
those that are not due to structural variation. We have compared genome-wide DNA 
methylation among 10 A. thaliana lines, derived 30 generations ago from a common 
ancestor. Epimutations at individual positions were easily detected, and close to
30,000 cytosines in each strain were differentially methylated. In contrast,
larger regions of contiguous methylation were much more stable, and the frequency
of changes was in the same low range as that of DNA mutations. Like individual
positions, the same regions were often affected by differential methylation in
independent lines, with evidence for recurrent cycles of forward and reverse
mutations. Transposable elements and short interfering RNAs have been causally
linked to DNA methylation. In agreement, differentially methylated sites were
farther from transposable elements and showed less association with short
interfering RNA expression than invariant positions. The biased distribution and 
frequent reversion of epimutations have important implications for the potential 
contribution of sequence-independent epialleles to plant evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10555 
PMID: 22057020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Nature. 2011 Sep 18;478(7367):132-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10409.

ATP-induced helicase slippage reveals highly coordinated subunits.

Sun B(1), Johnson DS, Patel G, Smith BY, Pandey M, Patel SS, Wang MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics - Laboratory of Atomic and Solid State Physics, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Helicases are vital enzymes that carry out strand separation of duplex nucleic
acids during replication, repair and recombination. Bacteriophage T7 gene product
4 is a model hexameric helicase that has been observed to use dTTP, but not ATP, 
to unwind double-stranded (ds)DNA as it translocates from 5' to 3' along
single-stranded (ss)DNA. Whether and how different subunits of the helicase
coordinate their chemo-mechanical activities and DNA binding during translocation
is still under debate. Here we address this question using a single-molecule
approach to monitor helicase unwinding. We found that T7 helicase does in fact
unwind dsDNA in the presence of ATP and that the unwinding rate is even faster
than that with dTTP. However, unwinding traces showed a remarkable sawtooth
pattern where processive unwinding was repeatedly interrupted by sudden slippage 
events, ultimately preventing unwinding over a substantial distance. This
behaviour was not observed with dTTP alone and was greatly reduced when ATP
solution was supplemented with a small amount of dTTP. These findings presented
an opportunity to use nucleotide mixtures to investigate helicase subunit
coordination. We found that T7 helicase binds and hydrolyses ATP and dTTP by
competitive kinetics such that the unwinding rate is dictated simply by their
respective maximum rates V(max), Michaelis constants K(M) and concentrations. In 
contrast, processivity does not follow a simple competitive behaviour and shows a
cooperative dependence on nucleotide concentrations. This does not agree with an 
uncoordinated mechanism where each subunit functions independently, but supports 
a model where nearly all subunits coordinate their chemo-mechanical activities
and DNA binding. Our data indicate that only one subunit at a time can accept a
nucleotide while other subunits are nucleotide-ligated and thus they interact
with the DNA to ensure processivity. Such subunit coordination may be general to 
many ring-shaped helicases and reveals a potential mechanism for regulation of
DNA unwinding during replication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10409 
PMCID: PMC3190587
PMID: 21927003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 2011 Sep 18;478(7368):255-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10408.

A reserve stem cell population in small intestine renders Lgr5-positive cells
dispensable.

Tian H(1), Biehs B, Warming S, Leong KG, Rangell L, Klein OD, de Sauvage FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 2;482(7383):120.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Jan 6;10(1):2-4.

The small intestine epithelium renews every 2 to 5 days, making it one of the
most regenerative mammalian tissues. Genetic inducible fate mapping studies have 
identified two principal epithelial stem cell pools in this tissue. One pool
consists of columnar Lgr5-expressing cells that cycle rapidly and are present
predominantly at the crypt base. The other pool consists of Bmi1-expressing cells
that largely reside above the crypt base. However, the relative functions of
these two pools and their interrelationship are not understood. Here we
specifically ablated Lgr5-expressing cells in mice using a human diphtheria toxin
receptor (DTR) gene knocked into the Lgr5 locus. We found that complete loss of
the Lgr5-expressing cells did not perturb homeostasis of the epithelium,
indicating that other cell types can compensate for the elimination of this
population. After ablation of Lgr5-expressing cells, progeny production by
Bmi1-expressing cells increased, indicating that Bmi1-expressing stem cells
compensate for the loss of Lgr5-expressing cells. Indeed, lineage tracing showed 
that Bmi1-expressing cells gave rise to Lgr5-expressing cells, pointing to a
hierarchy of stem cells in the intestinal epithelium. Our results demonstrate
that Lgr5-expressing cells are dispensable for normal intestinal homeostasis, and
that in the absence of these cells, Bmi1-expressing cells can serve as an
alternative stem cell pool. These data provide the first experimental evidence
for the interrelationship between these populations. The Bmi1-expressing stem
cells may represent both a reserve stem cell pool in case of injury to the small 
intestine epithelium and a source for replenishment of the Lgr5-expressing cells 
under non-pathological conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10408 
PMCID: PMC4251967
PMID: 21927002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Nature. 2011 Sep 18;477(7366):561-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10441.

The crystal structure of dynamin.

Ford MG(1), Jenni S, Nunnari J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California, Davis,
Davis, California 95616, USA.

Dynamin-related proteins (DRPs) are multi-domain GTPases that function via
oligomerization and GTP-dependent conformational changes to play central roles in
regulating membrane structure across phylogenetic kingdoms. How DRPs harness
self-assembly and GTP-dependent conformational changes to remodel membranes is
not understood. Here we present the crystal structure of an assembly-deficient
mammalian endocytic DRP, dynamin 1, lacking the proline-rich domain, in its
nucleotide-free state. The dynamin 1 monomer is an extended structure with the
GTPase domain and bundle signalling element positioned on top of a long helical
stalk with the pleckstrin homology domain flexibly attached on its opposing end. 
Dynamin 1 dimer and higher order dimer multimers form via interfaces located in
the stalk. Analysis of these interfaces provides insight into DRP family member
specificity and regulation and provides a framework for understanding the
biogenesis of higher order DRP structures and the mechanism of DRP-mediated
membrane scission events.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10441 
PMCID: PMC4075756
PMID: 21927001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 2011 Sep 18;477(7366):556-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10369.

Crystal structure of nucleotide-free dynamin.

Faelber K(1), Posor Y, Gao S, Held M, Roske Y, Schulze D, Haucke V, Noé F, Daumke
O.

Author information: 
(1)Crystallography, Max-Delbrück-Centrum for Molecular Medicine,
Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13125 Berlin, Germany. katja.faelber@mdc-berlin.de

Dynamin is a mechanochemical GTPase that oligomerizes around the neck of
clathrin-coated pits and catalyses vesicle scission in a GTP-hydrolysis-dependent
manner. The molecular details of oligomerization and the mechanism of the
mechanochemical coupling are currently unknown. Here we present the crystal
structure of human dynamin 1 in the nucleotide-free state with a four-domain
architecture comprising the GTPase domain, the bundle signalling element, the
stalk and the pleckstrin homology domain. Dynamin 1 oligomerized in the crystals 
via the stalks, which assemble in a criss-cross fashion. The stalks further
interact via conserved surfaces with the pleckstrin homology domain and the
bundle signalling element of the neighbouring dynamin molecule. This intricate
domain interaction rationalizes a number of disease-related mutations in dynamin 
2 and suggests a structural model for the mechanochemical coupling that
reconciles previous models of dynamin function.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10369 
PMID: 21927000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Nature. 2011 Sep 18;478(7368):260-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10430.

Mechanical strain in actin networks regulates FilGAP and integrin binding to
filamin A.

Ehrlicher AJ(1), Nakamura F, Hartwig JH, Weitz DA, Stossel TP.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Medicine Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Mechanical stresses elicit cellular reactions mediated by chemical signals.
Defective responses to forces underlie human medical disorders such as cardiac
failure and pulmonary injury. The actin cytoskeleton's connectivity enables it to
transmit forces rapidly over large distances, implicating it in these
physiological and pathological responses. Despite detailed knowledge of the
cytoskeletal structure, the specific molecular switches that convert mechanical
stimuli into chemical signals have remained elusive. Here we identify the
actin-binding protein filamin A (FLNA) as a central mechanotransduction element
of the cytoskeleton. We reconstituted a minimal system consisting of actin
filaments, FLNA and two FLNA-binding partners: the cytoplasmic tail of
β-integrin, and FilGAP. Integrins form an essential mechanical linkage between
extracellular and intracellular environments, with β-integrin tails connecting to
the actin cytoskeleton by binding directly to filamin. FilGAP is an FLNA-binding 
GTPase-activating protein specific for RAC, which in vivo regulates cell
spreading and bleb formation. Using fluorescence loss after photoconversion, a
novel, high-speed alternative to fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, we
demonstrate that both externally imposed bulk shear and myosin-II-driven forces
differentially regulate the binding of these partners to FLNA. Consistent with
structural predictions, strain increases β-integrin binding to FLNA, whereas it
causes FilGAP to dissociate from FLNA, providing a direct and specific molecular 
basis for cellular mechanotransduction. These results identify a molecular
mechanotransduction element within the actin cytoskeleton, revealing that
mechanical strain of key proteins regulates the binding of signalling molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10430 
PMCID: PMC3204864
PMID: 21926999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):335-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10400.

Caspase-8 regulates TNF-α-induced epithelial necroptosis and terminal ileitis.

Günther C(1), Martini E, Wittkopf N, Amann K, Weigmann B, Neumann H, Waldner MJ, 
Hedrick SM, Tenzer S, Neurath MF, Becker C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine 1, Friedrich-Alexander-University, D-91054 Erlangen,
Germany.

Dysfunction of the intestinal epithelium is believed to result in the excessive
translocation of commensal bacteria into the bowel wall that drives chronic
mucosal inflammation in Crohn's disease, an incurable inflammatory bowel disease 
in humans characterized by inflammation of the terminal ileum. In healthy
individuals, the intestinal epithelium maintains a physical barrier, established 
by the tight contact of cells. Moreover, specialized epithelial cells such as
Paneth cells and goblet cells provide innate immune defence functions by
secreting mucus and antimicrobial peptides, which hamper access and survival of
bacteria adjacent to the epithelium. Epithelial cell death is a hallmark of
intestinal inflammation and has been discussed as a possible pathogenic mechanism
driving Crohn's disease in humans. However, the regulation of epithelial cell
death and its role in intestinal homeostasis remain poorly understood. Here we
demonstrate a critical role for caspase-8 in regulating necroptosis of intestinal
epithelial cells (IECs) and terminal ileitis. Mice with a conditional deletion of
caspase-8 in the intestinal epithelium (Casp8(ΔIEC)) spontaneously developed
inflammatory lesions in the terminal ileum and were highly susceptible to
colitis. Casp8(ΔIEC) mice lacked Paneth cells and showed reduced numbers of
goblet cells, indicating dysregulated antimicrobial immune cell functions of the 
intestinal epithelium. Casp8(ΔIEC) mice showed increased cell death in the Paneth
cell area of small intestinal crypts. Epithelial cell death was induced by tumour
necrosis factor (TNF)-α, was associated with increased expression of
receptor-interacting protein 3 (Rip3; also known as Ripk3) and could be inhibited
on blockade of necroptosis. Lastly, we identified high levels of RIP3 in human
Paneth cells and increased necroptosis in the terminal ileum of patients with
Crohn's disease, suggesting a potential role of necroptosis in the pathogenesis
of this disease. Together, our data demonstrate a critical function of caspase-8 
in regulating intestinal homeostasis and in protecting IECs from TNF-α-induced
necroptotic cell death.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10400 
PMCID: PMC3373730
PMID: 21921917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):326-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10432.

Sequence-based characterization of structural variation in the mouse genome.

Yalcin B(1), Wong K, Agam A, Goodson M, Keane TM, Gan X, Nellåker C, Goodstadt L,
Nicod J, Bhomra A, Hernandez-Pliego P, Whitley H, Cleak J, Dutton R, Janowitz D, 
Mott R, Adams DJ, Flint J.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN,
UK.

Comment in
    Pharmacogenomics. 2011 Dec;12(12):1639.

Structural variation is widespread in mammalian genomes and is an important cause
of disease, but just how abundant and important structural variants (SVs) are in 
shaping phenotypic variation remains unclear. Without knowing how many SVs there 
are, and how they arise, it is difficult to discover what they do. Combining
experimental with automated analyses, we identified 711,920 SVs at 281,243 sites 
in the genomes of thirteen classical and four wild-derived inbred mouse strains. 
The majority of SVs are less than 1 kilobase in size and 98% are deletions or
insertions. The breakpoints of 160,000 SVs were mapped to base pair resolution,
allowing us to infer that insertion of retrotransposons causes more than half of 
SVs. Yet, despite their prevalence, SVs are less likely than other sequence
variants to cause gene expression or quantitative phenotypic variation. We
identified 24 SVs that disrupt coding exons, acting as rare variants of large
effect on gene function. One-third of the genes so affected have immunological
functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10432 
PMCID: PMC3428933
PMID: 21921916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):317-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10384.

The evolution of overconfidence.

Johnson DD(1), Fowler JH.

Author information: 
(1)Politics and International Relations, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8
9LD, UK. dominic.johnson@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Trends Ecol Evol. 2013 Aug;28(8):446-7.
    Trends Ecol Evol. 2013 Aug;28(8):444-5.
    Nature. 2011 Sep 15;477(7364):282-3.

Confidence is an essential ingredient of success in a wide range of domains
ranging from job performance and mental health to sports, business and combat.
Some authors have suggested that not just confidence but
overconfidence--believing you are better than you are in reality--is advantageous
because it serves to increase ambition, morale, resolve, persistence or the
credibility of bluffing, generating a self-fulfilling prophecy in which
exaggerated confidence actually increases the probability of success. However,
overconfidence also leads to faulty assessments, unrealistic expectations and
hazardous decisions, so it remains a puzzle how such a false belief could evolve 
or remain stable in a population of competing strategies that include accurate,
unbiased beliefs. Here we present an evolutionary model showing that,
counterintuitively, overconfidence maximizes individual fitness and populations
tend to become overconfident, as long as benefits from contested resources are
sufficiently large compared with the cost of competition. In contrast, unbiased
strategies are only stable under limited conditions. The fact that overconfident 
populations are evolutionarily stable in a wide range of environments may help to
explain why overconfidence remains prevalent today, even if it contributes to
hubris, market bubbles, financial collapses, policy failures, disasters and
costly wars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10384 
PMID: 21921915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):312-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10385.

Linking mantle plumes, large igneous provinces and environmental catastrophes.

Sobolev SV(1), Sobolev AV, Kuzmin DV, Krivolutskaya NA, Petrunin AG, Arndt NT,
Radko VA, Vasiliev YR.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches GeoForschungsZentrum GFZ, Telegrafenberg, 14473, Potsdam, Germany.
stephan@gfz-potsdam.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 15;477(7364):285-6.

Large igneous provinces (LIPs) are known for their rapid production of enormous
volumes of magma (up to several million cubic kilometres in less than a million
years), for marked thinning of the lithosphere, often ending with a continental
break-up, and for their links to global environmental catastrophes. Despite the
importance of LIPs, controversy surrounds even the basic idea that they form
through melting in the heads of thermal mantle plumes. The Permo-Triassic
Siberian Traps--the type example and the largest continental LIP--is located on
thick cratonic lithosphere and was synchronous with the largest known
mass-extinction event. However, there is no evidence of pre-magmatic uplift or of
a large lithospheric stretching, as predicted above a plume head. Moreover,
estimates of magmatic CO(2) degassing from the Siberian Traps are considered
insufficient to trigger climatic crises, leading to the hypothesis that the
release of thermogenic gases from the sediment pile caused the mass extinction.
Here we present petrological evidence for a large amount (15 wt%) of dense
recycled oceanic crust in the head of the plume and develop a thermomechanical
model that predicts no pre-magmatic uplift and requires no lithospheric
extension. The model implies extensive plume melting and heterogeneous erosion of
the thick cratonic lithosphere over the course of a few hundred thousand years.
The model suggests that massive degassing of CO(2) and HCl, mostly from the
recycled crust in the plume head, could alone trigger a mass extinction and
predicts it happening before the main volcanic phase, in agreement with
stratigraphic and geochronological data for the Siberian Traps and other LIPs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10385 
PMID: 21921914 


253. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):308-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10367.

Overcoming lability of extremely long alkane carbon-carbon bonds through
dispersion forces.

Schreiner PR(1), Chernish LV, Gunchenko PA, Tikhonchuk EY, Hausmann H, Serafin M,
Schlecht S, Dahl JE, Carlson RM, Fokin AA.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie der Justus-Liebig-Universität,
Heinrich-Buff-Ring 58, D-35392 Giessen, Germany. prs@org.chemie.uni-giessen.de

Steric effects in chemistry are a consequence of the space required to
accommodate the atoms and groups within a molecule, and are often thought to be
dominated by repulsive forces arising from overlapping electron densities (Pauli 
repulsion). An appreciation of attractive interactions such as van der Waals
forces (which include London dispersion forces) is necessary to understand
chemical bonding and reactivity fully. This is evident from, for example, the
strongly debated origin of the higher stability of branched alkanes relative to
linear alkanes and the possibility of constructing hydrocarbons with
extraordinarily long C-C single bonds through steric crowding. Although empirical
bond distance/bond strength relationships have been established for C-C bonds
(longer C-C bonds have smaller bond dissociation energies), these have no present
theoretical basis. Nevertheless, these empirical considerations are fundamental
to structural and energetic evaluations in chemistry, as summarized by Pauling as
early as 1960 and confirmed more recently. Here we report the preparation of
hydrocarbons with extremely long C-C bonds (up to 1.704 Å), the longest such
bonds observed so far in alkanes. The prepared compounds are unexpectedly
stable--noticeable decomposition occurs only above 200 °C. We prepared the
alkanes by coupling nanometre-sized, diamond-like, highly rigid structures known 
as diamondoids. The extraordinary stability of the coupling products is due to
overall attractive dispersion interactions between the intramolecular H•••H
contact surfaces, as is evident from density functional theory computations with 
and without inclusion of dispersion corrections.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10367 
PMID: 21921913 


254. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):304-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10375.

Geometrical enhancement of low-field magnetoresistance in silicon.

Wan C(1), Zhang X, Gao X, Wang J, Tan X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Advanced Materials, Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Sep 26;501(7468):E1-2.
    Nature. 2013 Sep 26;501(7468):E1.

Inhomogeneity-induced magnetoresistance (IMR) reported in some non-magnetic
semiconductors, particularly silicon, has generated considerable interest owing
to the large magnitude of the effect and its linear field dependence (albeit at
high magnetic fields). Various theories implicate spatial variation of the
carrier mobility as being responsible for IMR. Here we show that IMR in lightly
doped silicon can be significantly enhanced through hole injection, and then
tuned by an applied current to arise at low magnetic fields. In our devices, the 
'inhomogeneity' is provided by the p-n boundary formed between regions where
conduction is dominated by the minority and majority charge carriers (holes and
electrons) respectively; application of a magnetic field distorts the current in 
the boundary region, resulting in large magnetoresistance. Because this is an
intrinsically spatial effect, the geometry of the device can be used to enhance
IMR further: we designed an IMR device whose room-temperature field sensitivity
at low fields was greatly improved, with magnetoresistance reaching 10% at 0.07 T
and 100% at 0.2 T, approaching the performance of commercial
giant-magnetoresistance devices. The combination of high sensitivity to low
magnetic fields and large high-field response should make this device concept
attractive to the magnetic-field sensing industry. Moreover, because our device
is based on a conventional silicon platform, it should be possible to integrate
it with existing silicon devices and so aid the development of silicon-based
magnetoelectronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10375 
PMID: 21921912 


255. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):301-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10417.

The Sagittarius impact as an architect of spirality and outer rings in the Milky 
Way.

Purcell CW(1), Bullock JS, Tollerud EJ, Rocha M, Chakrabarti S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15260, USA. cpurcell@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 15;477(7364):286-7.

Like many galaxies of its size, the Milky Way is a disk with prominent spiral
arms rooted in a central bar, although our knowledge of its structure and origin 
is incomplete. Traditional attempts to understand our Galaxy's morphology assume 
that it has been unperturbed by major external forces. Here we report simulations
of the response of the Milky Way to the infall of the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy
(Sgr), which results in the formation of spiral arms, influences the central bar 
and produces a flared outer disk. Two ring-like wrappings emerge towards the
Galactic anti-Centre in our model that are reminiscent of the low-latitude arcs
observed in the same area of the Milky Way. Previous models have focused on Sgr
itself to reproduce the dwarf's orbital history and place associated constraints 
on the shape of the Milky Way gravitational potential, treating the Sgr impact
event as a trivial influence on the Galactic disk. Our results show that the
Milky Way's morphology is not purely secular in origin and that low-mass minor
mergers predicted to be common throughout the Universe probably have a similarly 
important role in shaping galactic structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10417 
PMID: 21921911 


256. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7364):289-94. doi: 10.1038/nature10413.

Mouse genomic variation and its effect on phenotypes and gene regulation.

Keane TM(1), Goodstadt L, Danecek P, White MA, Wong K, Yalcin B, Heger A, Agam A,
Slater G, Goodson M, Furlotte NA, Eskin E, Nellåker C, Whitley H, Cleak J,
Janowitz D, Hernandez-Pliego P, Edwards A, Belgard TG, Oliver PL, McIntyre RE,
Bhomra A, Nicod J, Gan X, Yuan W, van der Weyden L, Steward CA, Bala S, Stalker
J, Mott R, Durbin R, Jackson IJ, Czechanski A, Guerra-Assunção JA, Donahue LR,
Reinholdt LG, Payseur BA, Ponting CP, Birney E, Flint J, Adams DJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1HH, UK.

Comment in
    Pharmacogenomics. 2011 Dec;12(12):1638-9.

We report genome sequences of 17 inbred strains of laboratory mice and identify
almost ten times more variants than previously known. We use these genomes to
explore the phylogenetic history of the laboratory mouse and to examine the
functional consequences of allele-specific variation on transcript abundance,
revealing that at least 12% of transcripts show a significant tissue-specific
expression bias. By identifying candidate functional variants at 718 quantitative
trait loci we show that the molecular nature of functional variants and their
position relative to genes vary according to the effect size of the locus. These 
sequences provide a starting point for a new era in the functional analysis of a 
key model organism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10413 
PMCID: PMC3276836
PMID: 21921910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;478(7368):233-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10433.

Strong contributors to network persistence are the most vulnerable to extinction.

Saavedra S(1), Stouffer DB, Uzzi B, Bascompte J.

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern Institute on Complex Systems, Northwestern University, Evanston, 
Illinois 60208, USA.

The architecture of mutualistic networks facilitates coexistence of individual
participants by minimizing competition relative to facilitation. However, it is
not known whether this benefit is received by each participant node in proportion
to its overall contribution to network persistence. This issue is critical to
understanding the trade-offs faced by individual nodes in a network. We address
this question by applying a suite of structural and dynamic methods to an
ensemble of flowering plant/insect pollinator networks. Here we report two main
results. First, nodes contribute heterogeneously to the overall nested
architecture of the network. From simulations, we confirm that the removal of a
strong contributor tends to decrease overall network persistence more than the
removal of a weak contributor. Second, strong contributors to collective
persistence do not gain individual survival benefits but are in fact the nodes
most vulnerable to extinction. We explore the generality of these results to
other cooperative networks by analysing a 15-year time series of the interactions
between designer and contractor firms in the New York City garment industry. As
with the ecological networks, a firm's survival probability decreases as its
individual nestedness contribution increases. Our results, therefore, introduce a
new paradox into the study of the persistence of cooperative networks, and
potentially address questions about the impact of invasive species in ecological 
systems and new competitors in economic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10433 
PMID: 21918515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;478(7369):378-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10425.

Primary forests are irreplaceable for sustaining tropical biodiversity.

Gibson L(1), Lee TM, Koh LP, Brook BW, Gardner TA, Barlow J, Peres CA, Bradshaw
CJ, Laurance WF, Lovejoy TE, Sodhi NS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore, 14
Science Drive 4, Singapore 117543, Singapore. lggibson@nus.edu.sg

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):178-9.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):179.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):179.

Human-driven land-use changes increasingly threaten biodiversity, particularly in
tropical forests where both species diversity and human pressures on natural
environments are high. The rapid conversion of tropical forests for agriculture, 
timber production and other uses has generated vast, human-dominated landscapes
with potentially dire consequences for tropical biodiversity. Today, few truly
undisturbed tropical forests exist, whereas those degraded by repeated logging
and fires, as well as secondary and plantation forests, are rapidly expanding.
Here we provide a global assessment of the impact of disturbance and land
conversion on biodiversity in tropical forests using a meta-analysis of 138
studies. We analysed 2,220 pairwise comparisons of biodiversity values in primary
forests (with little or no human disturbance) and disturbed forests. We found
that biodiversity values were substantially lower in degraded forests, but that
this varied considerably by geographic region, taxonomic group, ecological metric
and disturbance type. Even after partly accounting for confounding colonization
and succession effects due to the composition of surrounding habitats, isolation 
and time since disturbance, we find that most forms of forest degradation have an
overwhelmingly detrimental effect on tropical biodiversity. Our results clearly
indicate that when it comes to maintaining tropical biodiversity, there is no
substitute for primary forests.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10425 
PMID: 21918513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7366):596-600. doi: 10.1038/nature10510.

The NLRC4 inflammasome receptors for bacterial flagellin and type III secretion
apparatus.

Zhao Y(1), Yang J, Shi J, Gong YN, Lu Q, Xu H, Liu L, Shao F.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union
Medical College, Beijing 100730, China.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Nov;9(11):765.
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):543-4.

Inflammasomes are large cytoplasmic complexes that sense microbial
infections/danger molecules and induce caspase-1 activation-dependent cytokine
production and macrophage inflammatory death. The inflammasome assembled by the
NOD-like receptor (NLR) protein NLRC4 responds to bacterial flagellin and a
conserved type III secretion system (TTSS) rod component. How the NLRC4
inflammasome detects the two bacterial products and the molecular mechanism of
NLRC4 inflammasome activation are not understood. Here we show that NAIP5, a
BIR-domain NLR protein required for Legionella pneumophila replication in mouse
macrophages, is a universal component of the flagellin-NLRC4 pathway. NAIP5
directly and specifically interacted with flagellin, which determined the
inflammasome-stimulation activities of different bacterial flagellins. NAIP5
engagement by flagellin promoted a physical NAIP5-NLRC4 association, rendering
full reconstitution of a flagellin-responsive NLRC4 inflammasome in
non-macrophage cells. The related NAIP2 functioned analogously to NAIP5, serving 
as a specific inflammasome receptor for TTSS rod proteins such as Salmonella PrgJ
and Burkholderia BsaK. Genetic analysis of Chromobacterium violaceum infection
revealed that the TTSS needle protein CprI can stimulate NLRC4 inflammasome
activation in human macrophages. Similarly, CprI is specifically recognized by
human NAIP, the sole NAIP family member in human. The finding that NAIP proteins 
are inflammasome receptors for bacterial flagellin and TTSS apparatus components 
further predicts that the remaining NAIP family members may recognize other
unidentified microbial products to activate NLRC4 inflammasome-mediated innate
immunity.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10510 
PMID: 21918512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Nature. 2011 Sep 14;477(7365):471-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10403.

Synthetic chromosome arms function in yeast and generate phenotypic diversity by 
design.

Dymond JS(1), Richardson SM, Coombes CE, Babatz T, Muller H, Annaluru N, Blake
WJ, Schwerzmann JW, Dai J, Lindstrom DL, Boeke AC, Gottschling DE, Chandrasegaran
S, Bader JS, Boeke JD.

Author information: 
(1)High Throughput Biology Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
733 North Broadway, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Nov;8(11):895.
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):413-4.

Recent advances in DNA synthesis technology have enabled the construction of
novel genetic pathways and genomic elements, furthering our understanding of
system-level phenomena. The ability to synthesize large segments of DNA allows
the engineering of pathways and genomes according to arbitrary sets of design
principles. Here we describe a synthetic yeast genome project, Sc2.0, and the
first partially synthetic eukaryotic chromosomes, Saccharomyces cerevisiae
chromosome synIXR, and semi-synVIL. We defined three design principles for a
synthetic genome as follows: first, it should result in a (near) wild-type
phenotype and fitness; second, it should lack destabilizing elements such as tRNA
genes or transposons; and third, it should have genetic flexibility to facilitate
future studies. The synthetic genome features several systemic modifications
complying with the design principles, including an inducible evolution system,
SCRaMbLE (synthetic chromosome rearrangement and modification by loxP-mediated
evolution). We show the utility of SCRaMbLE as a novel method of combinatorial
mutagenesis, capable of generating complex genotypes and a broad variety of
phenotypes. When complete, the fully synthetic genome will allow massive
restructuring of the yeast genome, and may open the door to a new type of
combinatorial genetics based entirely on variations in gene content and copy
number.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10403 
PMCID: PMC3774833
PMID: 21918511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Nature. 2011 Sep 11;478(7368):204-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10497.

Diffraction-unlimited all-optical imaging and writing with a photochromic GFP.

Grotjohann T(1), Testa I, Leutenegger M, Bock H, Urban NT, Lavoie-Cardinal F,
Willig KI, Eggeling C, Jakobs S, Hell SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of NanoBiophotonics, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Lens-based optical microscopy failed to discern fluorescent features closer than 
200 nm for decades, but the recent breaking of the diffraction resolution barrier
by sequentially switching the fluorescence capability of adjacent features on and
off is making nanoscale imaging routine. Reported fluorescence nanoscopy variants
switch these features either with intense beams at defined positions or randomly,
molecule by molecule. Here we demonstrate an optical nanoscopy that records raw
data images from living cells and tissues with low levels of light. This advance 
has been facilitated by the generation of reversibly switchable enhanced green
fluorescent protein (rsEGFP), a fluorescent protein that can be reversibly
photoswitched more than a thousand times. Distributions of functional
rsEGFP-fusion proteins in living bacteria and mammalian cells are imaged at
<40-nanometre resolution. Dendritic spines in living brain slices are
super-resolved with about a million times lower light intensities than before.
The reversible switching also enables all-optical writing of features with
subdiffraction size and spacings, which can be used for data storage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10497 
PMID: 21909116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 2011 Sep 11;478(7367):103-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10405.

Genetic variants in novel pathways influence blood pressure and cardiovascular
disease risk.

International Consortium for Blood Pressure Genome-Wide Association Studies,
Ehret GB, Munroe PB, Rice KM, Bochud M, Johnson AD, Chasman DI, Smith AV, Tobin
MD, Verwoert GC, Hwang SJ, Pihur V, Vollenweider P, O'Reilly PF, Amin N,
Bragg-Gresham JL, Teumer A, Glazer NL, Launer L, Zhao JH, Aulchenko Y, Heath S,
Sõber S, Parsa A, Luan J, Arora P, Dehghan A, Zhang F, Lucas G, Hicks AA, Jackson
AU, Peden JF, Tanaka T, Wild SH, Rudan I, Igl W, Milaneschi Y, Parker AN, Fava C,
Chambers JC, Fox ER, Kumari M, Go MJ, van der Harst P, Kao WH, Sjögren M, Vinay
DG, Alexander M, Tabara Y, Shaw-Hawkins S, Whincup PH, Liu Y, Shi G, Kuusisto J, 
Tayo B, Seielstad M, Sim X, Nguyen KD, Lehtimäki T, Matullo G, Wu Y, Gaunt TR,
Onland-Moret NC, Cooper MN, Platou CG, Org E, Hardy R, Dahgam S, Palmen J, Vitart
V, Braund PS, Kuznetsova T, Uiterwaal CS, Adeyemo A, Palmas W, Campbell H, Ludwig
B, Tomaszewski M, Tzoulaki I, Palmer ND; CARDIoGRAM consortium; CKDGen
Consortium; KidneyGen Consortium; EchoGen consortium; CHARGE-HF consortium,
Aspelund T, Garcia M, Chang YP, O'Connell JR, Steinle NI, Grobbee DE, Arking DE, 
Kardia SL, Morrison AC, Hernandez D, Najjar S, McArdle WL, Hadley D, Brown MJ,
Connell JM, Hingorani AD, Day IN, Lawlor DA, Beilby JP, Lawrence RW, Clarke R,
Hopewell JC, Ongen H, Dreisbach AW, Li Y, Young JH, Bis JC, Kähönen M, Viikari J,
Adair LS, Lee NR, Chen MH, Olden M, Pattaro C, Bolton JA, Köttgen A, Bergmann S, 
Mooser V, Chaturvedi N, Frayling TM, Islam M, Jafar TH, Erdmann J, Kulkarni SR,
Bornstein SR, Grässler J, Groop L, Voight BF, Kettunen J, Howard P, Taylor A,
Guarrera S, Ricceri F, Emilsson V, Plump A, Barroso I, Khaw KT, Weder AB, Hunt
SC, Sun YV, Bergman RN, Collins FS, Bonnycastle LL, Scott LJ, Stringham HM,
Peltonen L, Perola M, Vartiainen E, Brand SM, Staessen JA, Wang TJ, Burton PR,
Soler Artigas M, Dong Y, Snieder H, Wang X, Zhu H, Lohman KK, Rudock ME, Heckbert
SR, Smith NL, Wiggins KL, Doumatey A, Shriner D, Veldre G, Viigimaa M, Kinra S,
Prabhakaran D, Tripathy V, Langefeld CD, Rosengren A, Thelle DS, Corsi AM,
Singleton A, Forrester T, Hilton G, McKenzie CA, Salako T, Iwai N, Kita Y,
Ogihara T, Ohkubo T, Okamura T, Ueshima H, Umemura S, Eyheramendy S, Meitinger T,
Wichmann HE, Cho YS, Kim HL, Lee JY, Scott J, Sehmi JS, Zhang W, Hedblad B,
Nilsson P, Smith GD, Wong A, Narisu N, Stančáková A, Raffel LJ, Yao J, Kathiresan
S, O'Donnell CJ, Schwartz SM, Ikram MA, Longstreth WT Jr, Mosley TH, Seshadri S, 
Shrine NR, Wain LV, Morken MA, Swift AJ, Laitinen J, Prokopenko I, Zitting P,
Cooper JA, Humphries SE, Danesh J, Rasheed A, Goel A, Hamsten A, Watkins H,
Bakker SJ, van Gilst WH, Janipalli CS, Mani KR, Yajnik CS, Hofman A, Mattace-Raso
FU, Oostra BA, Demirkan A, Isaacs A, Rivadeneira F, Lakatta EG, Orru M, Scuteri
A, Ala-Korpela M, Kangas AJ, Lyytikäinen LP, Soininen P, Tukiainen T, Würtz P,
Ong RT, Dörr M, Kroemer HK, Völker U, Völzke H, Galan P, Hercberg S, Lathrop M,
Zelenika D, Deloukas P, Mangino M, Spector TD, Zhai G, Meschia JF, Nalls MA,
Sharma P, Terzic J, Kumar MV, Denniff M, Zukowska-Szczechowska E, Wagenknecht LE,
Fowkes FG, Charchar FJ, Schwarz PE, Hayward C, Guo X, Rotimi C, Bots ML, Brand E,
Samani NJ, Polasek O, Talmud PJ, Nyberg F, Kuh D, Laan M, Hveem K, Palmer LJ, van
der Schouw YT, Casas JP, Mohlke KL, Vineis P, Raitakari O, Ganesh SK, Wong TY,
Tai ES, Cooper RS, Laakso M, Rao DC, Harris TB, Morris RW, Dominiczak AF,
Kivimaki M, Marmot MG, Miki T, Saleheen D, Chandak GR, Coresh J, Navis G, Salomaa
V, Han BG, Zhu X, Kooner JS, Melander O, Ridker PM, Bandinelli S, Gyllensten UB, 
Wright AF, Wilson JF, Ferrucci L, Farrall M, Tuomilehto J, Pramstaller PP, Elosua
R, Soranzo N, Sijbrands EJ, Altshuler D, Loos RJ, Shuldiner AR, Gieger C, Meneton
P, Uitterlinden AG, Wareham NJ, Gudnason V, Rotter JI, Rettig R, Uda M, Strachan 
DP, Witteman JC, Hartikainen AL, Beckmann JS, Boerwinkle E, Vasan RS, Boehnke M, 
Larson MG, Järvelin MR, Psaty BM, Abecasis GR, Chakravarti A, Elliott P, van
Duijn CM, Newton-Cheh C, Levy D, Caulfield MJ, Johnson T.

Collaborators: Tang H, Knowles J, Hlatky M, Fortmann S, Assimes TL, Quertermous
T, Go A, Iribarren C, Absher D, Risch N, Meyers R, Sidney S, Ziegler A, Schillert
A, Bickel C, Sinning C, Rupprecht HJ, Lackner K, Wild P, Schnabel R, Blankenberg 
S, Zeller T, Münzel T, Perret C, Cambien F, Tiret L, Nicaud V, Proust C, Dehghan 
A, Hofman A, Uitterlinden A, van Duijn C, Levy D, Whitteman J, Cupples LA,
Demissie-Banjaw S, Ramachandran V, Smith A, Gudnason V, Boerwinkle E, Folsom A,
Morrison A, Psaty BM, Chen IY, Rotter JI, Bis J, Volcik K, Rice K, Taylor KD,
Marciante K, Smith N, Glazer N, Heckbert S, Harris T, Lumley T, Kong A,
Thorleifsson G, Thorgeirsson G, Holm H, Gulcher JR, Stefansson K, Andersen K,
Gretarsdottir S, Thorsteinsdottir U, Preuss M, Schreiber S, Meitinger T, König
IR, Lieb W, Hengstenberg C, Schunkert H, Erdmann J, Fisher M, Grosshennig A,
Medack A, Stark K, Linsel-Nitschke P, Bruse P, Aherrahrou Z, Peters A, Loley C,
Willenborg C, Nahrstedt J, Freyer J, Gulde S, Doering A, Meisinger C, Wichmann
HE, Klopp N, Illig T, Meinitzer A, Tomaschitz A, Halperin E, Dobnig H, Scharnagl 
H, Kleber M, Laaksonen R, Pilz S, Grammer TB, Stojakovic T, Renner W, März W,
Böhm BO, Winkelmann BR, Winkler K, Hoffmann M, O'Donnell CJ, Voight BF, Altshuler
D, Siscovick DS, Musunuru K, Peltonen L, Barbalic M, Melander O, Elosua R,
Kathiresan S, Schwartz SM, Salomaa V, Guiducci C, Burtt N, Gabriel SB, Stewart
AF, Wells GA, Chen L, Jarinova O, Roberts R, McPherson R, Dandona S, Pichard AD, 
Rader DJ, Devaney J, Lindsay JM, Kent KM, Qu L, Satler L, Burnett MS, Li M,
Reilly MP, Wilensky R, Waksman R, Epstein S, Mattha W, Knouf CW, Waterworth DM,
Hakonarson HH, Walker M, Mooser V, Hall AS, Balmforth AJ, Wright BJ, Nelson C,
Thompson JR, Samani NJ, Braund PS, Ball SG, Smith NL, Felix JF, Morrison AC,
Demissie S, Glazer NL, Loehr LR, Cupples LA, Dehghan A, Lumley T, Rosamond WD,
Lieb W, Rivadeneira F, Bis JC, Folsom AR, Benjamin E, Aulchenko YS, Haritunians
T, Couper D, Murabito J, Wang YA, Stricker B, Gottdiener JS, Chang PP, Wang TJ,
Rice KM, Hofman A, Heckbert SR, Fox ER, O'Donnell CJ, Uitterlinden AG, Rotter JI,
Willerson JT, Levy D, van Duijn CM, Psaty BM, Witteman JC, Boerwinkle E, Vasan
RS, Köttgen A, Pattaro C, Böger CA, Fuchsberger C, Olden M, Glazer NL, Parsa A,
Gao X, Yang Q, Smith AV, O'Connell JR, Li M, Schmidt H, Tanaka T, Isaacs A,
Ketkar S, Hwang SJ, Johnson A, Dehghan A, Teumer A, Paré G, Atkinson EJ, Zeller
T, Lohman K, Cornelis MC, Probst-Hensch NM, Kronenberg F, Tönjes A, Hayward C,
Aspelund T, Eiriksdottir G, Launer LJ, Harris TB, Rampersaud E, Mitchell BD,
Arking DE, Boerwinkle E, Struchalin M, Cavalieri M, Singleton A, Giallauria F,
Metter J, de Boer J, Haritunians T, Lumley T, Siscovick D, Psaty BM, Zillikens
MC, Oostra BA, Feitosa M, Province M, de Andrade M, Turne ST, Schillert A,
Ziegler A, Wild PS, Schnabel RB, Wilde S, Munzel TF, Leak TS, Illig T, Klopp N,
Meisinger C, Wichmann HE, Koenig W, Zgaga L, Zemunik T, Kolcic I, Minelli C, Hu
FB, Johansson A, Igl W, Zaboli G, Wild SH, Wright AF, Campbell H, Ellinghaus D,
Schreiber S, Aulchenko YS, Felix JF, Rivadeneira F, Uitterlinden AG, Hofman A,
Imboden M, Nitsch D, Brandstätter A, Kollerits B, Kedenko L, Mägi R, Stumvoll M, 
Kovacs P, Boban M, Campbell S, Endlich K, Völzke H, Kroemer HK, Nauck M, Völker
U, Polasek O, Vitart V, Badola S, Parker AN, Ridker PM, Kardia SL, Blankenberg S,
Liu Y, Curhan GC, Franke A, Rochat T, Paulweber B, Prokopenko I, Wang W, Gudnason
V, Shuldiner AR, Coresh J, Schmidt R, Ferrucci L, Shlipak MG, van Duijn CM,
Borecki I, Krämer BK, Rudan I, Gyllensten U, Wilson JF, Witteman JC, Pramstaller 
PP, Rettig R, Hastie N, Chasman DI, Kao WH, Heid IM, Fox CS, Vasan R, Glazer NL, 
Felix JF, Lieb W, Wild PS, Felix SB, Watzinger N, Larson MG, Smith NL, Dehghan A,
Grosshennig A, Schillert A, Teumer A, Schmidt R, Kathiresan S, Lumley T,
Aulchenko YS, König IR, Zeller T, Homuth G, Struchalin M, Aragam J, Bis JC,
Rivadeneira F, Erdmann J, Schnabel RB, Dörr M, Zweiker R, Lind L, Rodeheffer RJ, 
Greiser KH, Levy D, Haritunians T, Deckers JW, Stritzke J, Lackner KJ, Völker U, 
Ingelsson E, Kullo I, Haerting J, O'Donnell CJ, Heckbert SR, Stricker BH, Ziegler
A, Reffelmann T, Redfield MM, Werdan K, Mitchell GF, Rice K, Arnett D, Hofman A, 
Gottdiener JS, Uitterlinden AG, Meitinger T, Blettner M, Friedrich N, Wang TJ,
Psaty BM, van Duijn CM, Wichmann HE, Munzel TF, Kroemer HK, Benjamin EJ, Rotter
JI, Witteman JC, Schunkert H, Schmidt H, Völzke H, Blankenberg S, Chambers JC,
Zhang W, Lord GM, van der Harst P, Lawlor DA, Sehmi JS, Gale DP, Wass MN, Ahmadi 
KR, Bakker SJ, Beckmann J, Bilo HJ, Bochud M, Brown MJ, Caulfield MJ, Connell JM,
Cook HT, Cotlarciuc I, Davey Smith G, de Silva R, Deng G, Devuyst O, Dikkeschei
LD, Cook HT, Cotlarciuc I, Davey Smith G, de Silva R, Deng G, Devuyst O,
Dikkeschei LD, Dimkovic T, Dockrell M, Dominiczak A, Ebrahim S, Eggermann T,
Farrall M, Ferrucci L, Floege J, Forouhi NG, Gansevoort RT, Han X, Hedblad B,
Homan van der Heide JJ, Hepkema BG, Hernandez-Fuentes M, Hypponen E, Johnson T,
de Jong PE, Kleefstra N, Lagou V, Lapsley M, Li Y, Loos RJ, Luan J, Luttropp K,
Maréchal C, Melander O, Munroe PB, Nordfors L, Parsa A, Peltonen L, Penninx BW,
Perucha E, Pouta A, Prokopenko I, Roderick PJ, Ruokonen A, Samani NJ, Sanna S,
Schalling M, Schlessinger D, Schlieper G, Seelen MA, Shuldiner AR, Sjögren M,
Smit JH, Snieder H, Soranzo N, Spector TD, Stenvinkel P, Sternberg MJ,
Swaminathan R, Tanaka T, Ubink-Veltmaat LJ, Uda M, Vollenweider P, Wallace C,
Waterworth D, Zerres K, Waeber G, Wareham NJ, Maxwell PH, McCarthy MI, Jarvelin
MR, Mooser V, Abecasis GR, Lightstone L, Scott J, Navis G, Elliot P, Kooner JS.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2011 Dec;4(6):712-3.

Blood pressure is a heritable trait influenced by several biological pathways and
responsive to environmental stimuli. Over one billion people worldwide have
hypertension (≥140 mm Hg systolic blood pressure or  ≥90 mm Hg diastolic blood
pressure). Even small increments in blood pressure are associated with an
increased risk of cardiovascular events. This genome-wide association study of
systolic and diastolic blood pressure, which used a multi-stage design in 200,000
individuals of European descent, identified sixteen novel loci: six of these loci
contain genes previously known or suspected to regulate blood pressure
(GUCY1A3-GUCY1B3, NPR3-C5orf23, ADM, FURIN-FES, GOSR2, GNAS-EDN3); the other ten 
provide new clues to blood pressure physiology. A genetic risk score based on 29 
genome-wide significant variants was associated with hypertension, left
ventricular wall thickness, stroke and coronary artery disease, but not kidney
disease or kidney function. We also observed associations with blood pressure in 
East Asian, South Asian and African ancestry individuals. Our findings provide
new insights into the genetics and biology of blood pressure, and suggest
potential novel therapeutic pathways for cardiovascular disease prevention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10405 
PMCID: PMC3340926
PMID: 21909115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 2011 Sep 11;478(7367):64-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10496.

Frequent pathway mutations of splicing machinery in myelodysplasia.

Yoshida K(1), Sanada M, Shiraishi Y, Nowak D, Nagata Y, Yamamoto R, Sato Y,
Sato-Otsubo A, Kon A, Nagasaki M, Chalkidis G, Suzuki Y, Shiosaka M, Kawahata R, 
Yamaguchi T, Otsu M, Obara N, Sakata-Yanagimoto M, Ishiyama K, Mori H, Nolte F,
Hofmann WK, Miyawaki S, Sugano S, Haferlach C, Koeffler HP, Shih LY, Haferlach T,
Chiba S, Nakauchi H, Miyano S, Ogawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genomics Project, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo,
7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan.

Comment in
    Leukemia. 2012 May;26(5):1135-7.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Nov;11(11):759.
    Cancer Cell. 2011 Oct 18;20(4):420-3.

Myelodysplastic syndromes and related disorders (myelodysplasia) are a
heterogeneous group of myeloid neoplasms showing deregulated blood cell
production with evidence of myeloid dysplasia and a predisposition to acute
myeloid leukaemia, whose pathogenesis is only incompletely understood. Here we
report whole-exome sequencing of 29 myelodysplasia specimens, which unexpectedly 
revealed novel pathway mutations involving multiple components of the RNA
splicing machinery, including U2AF35, ZRSR2, SRSF2 and SF3B1. In a large series
analysis, these splicing pathway mutations were frequent (∼45 to ∼85%) in, and
highly specific to, myeloid neoplasms showing features of myelodysplasia.
Conspicuously, most of the mutations, which occurred in a mutually exclusive
manner, affected genes involved in the 3'-splice site recognition during pre-mRNA
processing, inducing abnormal RNA splicing and compromised haematopoiesis. Our
results provide the first evidence indicating that genetic alterations of the
major splicing components could be involved in human pathogenesis, also
implicating a novel therapeutic possibility for myelodysplasia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10496 
PMID: 21909114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 2011 Sep 11;477(7365):424-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10495.

CTCF-binding elements mediate control of V(D)J recombination.

Guo C(1), Yoon HS, Franklin A, Jain S, Ebert A, Cheng HL, Hansen E, Despo O,
Bossen C, Vettermann C, Bates JG, Richards N, Myers D, Patel H, Gallagher M,
Schlissel MS, Murre C, Busslinger M, Giallourakis CC, Alt FW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Children's Hospital, The Immune Disease
Institute, Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 300 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) variable region exons are assembled from V(H), D
and J(H) gene segments in developing B lymphocytes. Within the 2.7-megabase mouse
Igh locus, V(D)J recombination is regulated to ensure specific and diverse
antibody repertoires. Here we report in mice a key Igh V(D)J recombination
regulatory region, termed intergenic control region 1 (IGCR1), which lies between
the V(H) and D clusters. Functionally, IGCR1 uses CTCF looping/insulator
factor-binding elements and, correspondingly, mediates Igh loops containing
distant enhancers. IGCR1 promotes normal B-cell development and balances antibody
repertoires by inhibiting transcription and rearrangement of D(H)-proximal V(H)
gene segments and promoting rearrangement of distal V(H) segments. IGCR1
maintains ordered and lineage-specific V(H)(D)J(H) recombination by suppressing
V(H) joining to D segments not joined to J(H) segments, and V(H) to DJ(H) joins
in thymocytes, respectively. IGCR1 is also required for feedback regulation and
allelic exclusion of proximal V(H)-to-DJ(H) recombination. Our studies elucidate 
a long-sought Igh V(D)J recombination control region and indicate a new role for 
the generally expressed CTCF protein.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10495 
PMCID: PMC3342812
PMID: 21909113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7363):195-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10399.

The tungsten isotopic composition of the Earth's mantle before the terminal
bombardment.

Willbold M(1), Elliott T, Moorbath S.

Author information: 
(1)Bristol Isotope Group, School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol,
Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK. m.willbold@bristol.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):168-9.

Many precious, 'iron-loving' metals, such as gold, are surprisingly abundant in
the accessible parts of the Earth, given the efficiency with which core formation
should have removed them to the planet's deep interior. One explanation of their 
over-abundance is a 'late veneer'--a flux of meteorites added to the Earth after 
core formation as a 'terminal' bombardment that culminated in the cratering of
the Moon. Some 3.8 billion-year-old rocks from Isua, Greenland, are derived from 
sources that retain an isotopic memory of events pre-dating this cataclysmic
meteorite shower. These Isua samples thus provide a window on the composition of 
the Earth before such a late veneer and allow a direct test of its importance in 
modifying the composition of the planet. Using high-precision (less than 6 parts 
per million, 2 standard deviations) tungsten isotope analyses of these rocks,
here we show that they have a isotopic tungsten ratio (182)W/(184)W that is
significantly higher (about 13 parts per million) than modern terrestrial
samples. This finding is in good agreement with the expected influence of a late 
veneer. We also show that alternative interpretations, such as partial remixing
of a deep-mantle reservoir formed in the Hadean eon (more than four billion years
ago) or core-mantle interaction, do not explain the W isotope data well. The
decrease in mantle (182)W/(184)W occurs during the Archean eon (about four to
three billion years ago), potentially on the same timescale as a notable decrease
in (142)Nd/(144)Nd (refs 3 and 6). We speculate that both observations can be
explained if late meteorite bombardment triggered the onset of the current style 
of mantle convection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10399 
PMID: 21901010 


266. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7363):191-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10345.

Magnetic-field-induced charge-stripe order in the high-temperature superconductor
YBa2Cu3Oy.

Wu T(1), Mayaffre H, Krämer S, Horvatić M, Berthier C, Hardy WN, Liang R, Bonn
DA, Julien MH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire National des Champs Magnétiques Intenses, UPR 3228,
CNRS-UJF-UPS-INSA, 38042 Grenoble, France.

Electronic charges introduced in copper-oxide (CuO(2)) planes generate
high-transition-temperature (T(c)) superconductivity but, under special
circumstances, they can also order into filaments called stripes. Whether an
underlying tendency towards charge order is present in all copper oxides and
whether this has any relationship with superconductivity are, however, two highly
controversial issues. To uncover underlying electronic order, magnetic fields
strong enough to destabilize superconductivity can be used. Such experiments,
including quantum oscillations in YBa(2)Cu(3)O(y) (an extremely clean copper
oxide in which charge order has not until now been observed) have suggested that 
superconductivity competes with spin, rather than charge, order. Here we report
nuclear magnetic resonance measurements showing that high magnetic fields
actually induce charge order, without spin order, in the CuO(2) planes of
YBa(2)Cu(3)O(y). The observed static, unidirectional, modulation of the charge
density breaks translational symmetry, thus explaining quantum oscillation
results, and we argue that it is most probably the same 4a-periodic modulation as
in stripe-ordered copper oxides. That it develops only when superconductivity
fades away and near the same 1/8 hole doping as in La(2-x)Ba(x)CuO(4) (ref. 1)
suggests that charge order, although visibly pinned by CuO chains in
YBa(2)Cu(3)O(y), is an intrinsic propensity of the superconducting planes of
high-T(c) copper oxides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10345 
PMID: 21901009 


267. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7363):185-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10387.

An origin of the radio jet in M87 at the location of the central black hole.

Hada K(1), Doi A, Kino M, Nagai H, Hagiwara Y, Kawaguchi N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomical Science, The Graduate University for Advanced
Studies (SOKENDAI), 2-21-1 Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo 181-8588, Japan.
kazuhiro.hada@nao.ac.jp

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):326.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):164-5.

Powerful radio jets from active galactic nuclei are thought to be powered by the 
accretion of material onto the supermassive black hole (the 'central engine').
M87 is one of the closest examples of this phenomenon, and the structure of its
jet has been probed on a scale of about 100 Schwarzschild radii (R(s), the radius
of the event horizon). However, the location of the central black hole relative
to the jet base (a bright compact radio 'core') remains elusive. Observations of 
other jets indicate that the central engines are located about 10(4)-10(6)R(s)
upstream from the radio core. Here we report radio observations of M87 at six
frequencies that allow us to achieve a positional accuracy of about
20 microarcseconds. As the jet base becomes more transparent at higher
frequencies, the multifrequency position measurements of the radio core enable us
to determine the upstream end of the jet. The data reveal that the central engine
of M87 is located within 14-23R(s) of the radio core at 43 GHz. This implies that
the site of material infall onto the black hole and the eventual origin of the
jet reside in the bright compact region seen on the image at 43 GHz.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10387 
PMID: 21901008 


268. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7363):179-84. doi: 10.1038/nature10371.

BRCA1 tumour suppression occurs via heterochromatin-mediated silencing.

Zhu Q(1), Pao GM, Huynh AM, Suh H, Tonnu N, Nederlof PM, Gage FH, Verma IM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):169-70.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Nov;11(11):760.

Mutations in the tumour suppressor gene BRCA1 lead to breast and/or ovarian
cancer. Here we show that loss of Brca1 in mice results in transcriptional
de-repression of the tandemly repeated satellite DNA. Brca1 deficiency is
accompanied by a reduction of condensed DNA regions in the genome and loss of
ubiquitylation of histone H2A at satellite repeats. BRCA1 binds to satellite DNA 
regions and ubiquitylates H2A in vivo. Ectopic expression of H2A fused to
ubiquitin reverses the effects of BRCA1 loss, indicating that BRCA1 maintains
heterochromatin structure via ubiquitylation of histone H2A. Satellite DNA
de-repression was also observed in mouse and human BRCA1-deficient breast
cancers. Ectopic expression of satellite DNA can phenocopy BRCA1 loss in
centrosome amplification, cell-cycle checkpoint defects, DNA damage and genomic
instability. We propose that the role of BRCA1 in maintaining global
heterochromatin integrity accounts for many of its tumour suppressor functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10371 
PMCID: PMC3240576
PMID: 21901007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;479(7371):131-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10448.

Derivation of haploid embryonic stem cells from mouse embryos.

Leeb M(1), Wutz A.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Stem Cell Research, University of Cambridge, Tennis 
Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR, UK.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Dec 2;9(6):488-9.

Most animals are diploid, but haploid-only and male-haploid (such as honeybee and
ant) species have been described. The diploid genomes of complex organisms limit 
genetic approaches in biomedical model species such as mice. To overcome this
problem, experimental induction of haploidy has been used in fish. Haploid
development in zebrafish has been applied for genetic screening. Recently,
haploid pluripotent cell lines from medaka fish (Oryzias latipes) have also been 
established. In contrast, haploidy seems less compatible with development in
mammals. Although haploid cells have been observed in egg cylinder stage
parthenogenetic mouse embryos, most cells in surviving embryos become diploid.
Here we describe haploid mouse embryonic stem cells and show their application in
forward genetic screening.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10448 
PMCID: PMC3209452
PMID: 21900896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7365):448-51. doi: 10.1038/nature10327.

Widespread iron-rich conditions in the mid-Proterozoic ocean.

Planavsky NJ(1), McGoldrick P, Scott CT, Li C, Reinhard CT, Kelly AE, Chu X,
Bekker A, Love GD, Lyons TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 
92521, USA.

The chemical composition of the ocean changed markedly with the oxidation of the 
Earth's surface, and this process has profoundly influenced the evolutionary and 
ecological history of life. The early Earth was characterized by a reducing
ocean-atmosphere system, whereas the Phanerozoic eon (less than 542 million years
ago) is known for a stable and oxygenated biosphere conducive to the radiation of
animals. The redox characteristics of surface environments during Earth's middle 
age (1.8-1 billion years ago) are less well known, but it is generally assumed
that the mid-Proterozoic was home to a globally sulphidic (euxinic) deep ocean.
Here we present iron data from a suite of mid-Proterozoic marine mudstones.
Contrary to the popular model, our results indicate that ferruginous (anoxic and 
Fe(2+)-rich) conditions were both spatially and temporally extensive across
diverse palaeogeographic settings in the mid-Proterozoic ocean, inviting new
models for the temporal distribution of iron formations and the availability of
bioessential trace elements during a critical window for eukaryotic evolution.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10327 
PMID: 21900895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7365):490-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10393.

Polyamine sensing by nascent ornithine decarboxylase antizyme stimulates decoding
of its mRNA.

Kurian L(1), Palanimurugan R, Gödderz D, Dohmen RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genetics, University of Cologne, Cologne Biocenter, Zülpicher
Strasse 47a, D-50674 Cologne, Germany.

Polyamines are essential organic polycations with multiple cellular functions
relevant for cell division, cancer and ageing. Regulation of polyamine synthesis 
is mainly achieved by controlling the activity of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC)
through an unusual mechanism involving ODC antizyme, the binding of which
disrupts homodimeric ODC and targets it for ubiquitin-independent degradation by 
the 26S proteasome. Whereas mammals express several antizyme genes, we have
identified a single orthologue, termed OAZ1, in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Similar
to its mammalian counterparts, OAZ1 synthesis is induced with rising
intracellular polyamine concentrations, which also inhibit ubiquitin-dependent
degradation of the OAZ1 protein. Together, these mechanisms contribute to a
homeostatic feedback regulation of polyamines. Antizyme synthesis involves a
conserved +1 ribosomal frameshifting (RFS) event at an internal STOP codon during
decoding of its messenger RNA. Here we used S. cerevisiae OAZ1 to dissect the
enigmatic mechanism underlying polyamine regulation of RFS. In contrast with
previous assumptions, we report here that the nascent antizyme polypeptide is the
relevant polyamine sensor that operates in cis to negatively regulate upstream
RFS on the polysomes, where its own mRNA is being translated. At low polyamine
levels, the emerging antizyme polypeptide inhibits completion of its synthesis
causing a ribosome pile-up on antizyme mRNA, whereas polyamine binding to nascent
antizyme promotes completion of its synthesis. Thus, our study reveals a novel
autoregulatory mechanism, in which binding of a small metabolite to a nascent
sensor protein stimulates the latter's synthesis co-translationally.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10393 
PMID: 21900894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2011 Sep 7;477(7366):601-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10407.

SUMO1-dependent modulation of SERCA2a in heart failure.

Kho C(1), Lee A, Jeong D, Oh JG, Chaanine AH, Kizana E, Park WJ, Hajjar RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 1 Gustave L.
Levy Place, Box 1030, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):546-7.

The calcium-transporting ATPase ATP2A2, also known as SERCA2a, is a critical
ATPase responsible for Ca(2+) re-uptake during excitation-contraction coupling.
Impaired Ca(2+) uptake resulting from decreased expression and reduced activity
of SERCA2a is a hallmark of heart failure. Accordingly, restoration of SERCA2a
expression by gene transfer has proved to be effective in improving cardiac
function in heart-failure patients, as well as in animal models. The small
ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) can be conjugated to lysine residues of target 
proteins, and is involved in many cellular processes. Here we show that SERCA2a
is SUMOylated at lysines 480 and 585 and that this SUMOylation is essential for
preserving SERCA2a ATPase activity and stability in mouse and human cells. The
levels of SUMO1 and the SUMOylation of SERCA2a itself were greatly reduced in
failing hearts. SUMO1 restitution by adeno-associated-virus-mediated gene
delivery maintained the protein abundance of SERCA2a and markedly improved
cardiac function in mice with heart failure. This effect was comparable to
SERCA2A gene delivery. Moreover, SUMO1 overexpression in isolated cardiomyocytes 
augmented contractility and accelerated Ca(2+) decay. Transgene-mediated SUMO1
overexpression rescued cardiac dysfunction induced by pressure overload
concomitantly with increased SERCA2a function. By contrast, downregulation of
SUMO1 using small hairpin RNA (shRNA) accelerated pressure-overload-induced
deterioration of cardiac function and was accompanied by decreased SERCA2a
function. However, knockdown of SERCA2a resulted in severe contractile
dysfunction both in vitro and in vivo, which was not rescued by overexpression of
SUMO1. Taken together, our data show that SUMOylation is a critical
post-translational modification that regulates SERCA2a function, and provide a
platform for the design of novel therapeutic strategies for heart failure.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10407 
PMCID: PMC3443490
PMID: 21900893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2011 Sep 4;477(7365):477-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10383.

Antidiabetic actions of a non-agonist PPARγ ligand blocking Cdk5-mediated
phosphorylation.

Choi JH(1), Banks AS, Kamenecka TM, Busby SA, Chalmers MJ, Kumar N, Kuruvilla DS,
Shin Y, He Y, Bruning JB, Marciano DP, Cameron MD, Laznik D, Jurczak MJ, Schürer 
SC, Vidović D, Shulman GI, Spiegelman BM, Griffin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology and Division of Metabolism and Chronic Disease,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011 Nov;7(11):630.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Nov;10(11):814.

PPARγ is the functioning receptor for the thiazolidinedione (TZD) class of
antidiabetes drugs including rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. These drugs are full
classical agonists for this nuclear receptor, but recent data have shown that
many PPARγ-based drugs have a separate biochemical activity, blocking the
obesity-linked phosphorylation of PPARγ by Cdk5. Here we describe novel synthetic
compounds that have a unique mode of binding to PPARγ, completely lack classical 
transcriptional agonism and block the Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation in cultured
adipocytes and in insulin-resistant mice. Moreover, one such compound, SR1664,
has potent antidiabetic activity while not causing the fluid retention and weight
gain that are serious side effects of many of the PPARγ drugs. Unlike TZDs,
SR1664 also does not interfere with bone formation in culture. These data
illustrate that new classes of antidiabetes drugs can be developed by
specifically targeting the Cdk5-mediated phosphorylation of PPARγ.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10383 
PMCID: PMC3179551
PMID: 21892191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 2011 Sep 4;477(7365):452-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10382.

Phylogenomics reveals deep molluscan relationships.

Kocot KM(1), Cannon JT, Todt C, Citarella MR, Kohn AB, Meyer A, Santos SR,
Schander C, Moroz LL, Lieb B, Halanych KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Auburn University, 101 Rouse Life Sciences,
Auburn, Alabama 36849, USA. kmkocot@auburn.edu

Evolutionary relationships among the eight major lineages of Mollusca have
remained unresolved despite their diversity and importance. Previous
investigations of molluscan phylogeny, based primarily on nuclear ribosomal gene 
sequences or morphological data, have been unsuccessful at elucidating these
relationships. Recently, phylogenomic studies using dozens to hundreds of genes
have greatly improved our understanding of deep animal relationships. However,
limited genomic resources spanning molluscan diversity has prevented use of a
phylogenomic approach. Here we use transcriptome and genome data from all major
lineages (except Monoplacophora) and recover a well-supported topology for
Mollusca. Our results strongly support the Aculifera hypothesis placing
Polyplacophora (chitons) in a clade with a monophyletic Aplacophora (worm-like
molluscs). Additionally, within Conchifera, a sister-taxon relationship between
Gastropoda and Bivalvia is supported. This grouping has received little
consideration and contains most (>95%) molluscan species. Thus we propose the
node-based name Pleistomollusca. In light of these results, we examined the
evolution of morphological characters and found support for advanced
cephalization and shells as possibly having multiple origins within Mollusca.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10382 
PMCID: PMC4024475
PMID: 21892190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2011 Sep 4;477(7366):606-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10443.

The role of Tet3 DNA dioxygenase in epigenetic reprogramming by oocytes.

Gu TP(1), Guo F, Yang H, Wu HP, Xu GF, Liu W, Xie ZG, Shi L, He X, Jin SG, Iqbal 
K, Shi YG, Deng Z, Szabó PE, Pfeifer GP, Li J, Xu GL.

Author information: 
(1)Group of DNA Metabolism, The State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology,
Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.

Sperm and eggs carry distinctive epigenetic modifications that are adjusted by
reprogramming after fertilization. The paternal genome in a zygote undergoes
active DNA demethylation before the first mitosis. The biological significance
and mechanisms of this paternal epigenome remodelling have remained unclear. Here
we report that, within mouse zygotes, oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) occurs 
on the paternal genome, changing 5mC into 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC).
Furthermore, we demonstrate that the dioxygenase Tet3 (ref. 5) is enriched
specifically in the male pronucleus. In Tet3-deficient zygotes from conditional
knockout mice, paternal-genome conversion of 5mC into 5hmC fails to occur and the
level of 5mC remains constant. Deficiency of Tet3 also impedes the demethylation 
process of the paternal Oct4 and Nanog genes and delays the subsequent activation
of a paternally derived Oct4 transgene in early embryos. Female mice depleted of 
Tet3 in the germ line show severely reduced fecundity and their heterozygous
mutant offspring lacking maternal Tet3 suffer an increased incidence of
developmental failure. Oocytes lacking Tet3 also seem to have a reduced ability
to reprogram the injected nuclei from somatic cells. Therefore, Tet3-mediated DNA
hydroxylation is involved in epigenetic reprogramming of the zygotic paternal DNA
following natural fertilization and may also contribute to somatic cell nuclear
reprogramming during animal cloning.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10443 
PMID: 21892189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 2011 Sep 4;477(7366):616-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10404.

The structure and catalytic mechanism of a poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase.

Slade D(1), Dunstan MS, Barkauskaite E, Weston R, Lafite P, Dixon N, Ahel M, Leys
D, Ahel I.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, Paterson Institute for Cancer Research, University of
Manchester, Wilmslow Road, Manchester M20 4BX, UK.

Comment in
    Structure. 2011 Oct 12;19(10):1351-3.

Post-translational modification of proteins by poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation regulates
many cellular pathways that are critical for genome stability, including DNA
repair, chromatin structure, mitosis and apoptosis. Poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) is
composed of repeating ADP-ribose units linked via a unique glycosidic
ribose-ribose bond, and is synthesized from NAD by PAR polymerases. PAR
glycohydrolase (PARG) is the only protein capable of specific hydrolysis of the
ribose-ribose bonds present in PAR chains; its deficiency leads to cell death.
Here we show that filamentous fungi and a number of bacteria possess a divergent 
form of PARG that has all the main characteristics of the human PARG enzyme. We
present the first PARG crystal structure (derived from the bacterium
Thermomonospora curvata), which reveals that the PARG catalytic domain is a
distant member of the ubiquitous ADP-ribose-binding macrodomain family.
High-resolution structures of T. curvata PARG in complexes with ADP-ribose and
the PARG inhibitor ADP-HPD, complemented by biochemical studies, allow us to
propose a model for PAR binding and catalysis by PARG. The insights into the PARG
structure and catalytic mechanism should greatly improve our understanding of how
PARG activity controls reversible protein poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation and potentially 
of how the defects in this regulation are linked to human disease.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10404 
PMCID: PMC3184140
PMID: 21892188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2011 Sep 4;477(7366):583-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10391.

Transcriptomic analysis of avian digits reveals conserved and derived digit
identities in birds.

Wang Z(1), Young RL, Xue H, Wagner GP.

Author information: 
(1)Yale Systems Biology Institute, and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Yale University, West Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA.

Morphological characters are the result of developmental gene expression. The
identity of a character is ultimately grounded in the gene regulatory network
directing development and thus whole-genome gene expression data can provide
evidence about character identity. This approach has been successfully used to
assess cell-type identity. Here we use transcriptomic data to address a
long-standing uncertainty in evolutionary biology, the identity of avian wing
digits. Embryological evidence clearly identifies the three wing digits as
developing from digit positions 2, 3 and 4 (ref. 6), whereas palaeontological
data suggest that they are digits I, II and III. We compare the transcriptomes of
the wing and foot digits and find a strong signal that unites the first wing
digit with the first foot digit, even though the first wing digit develops from
embryological position 2. Interestingly, our transcriptomic data of the posterior
digits show a higher degree of differentiation among forelimb digits compared
with hindlimb digits. These data show that in the stem lineage of birds the first
digit underwent a translocation from digit position 1 to position 2, and further 
indicate that the posterior wing digits have unique identities contrary to any
model of avian digit identity proposed so far.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10391 
PMID: 21892187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):99-102. doi: 10.1038/nature10358.

Intravenous delivery of a multi-mechanistic cancer-targeted oncolytic poxvirus in
humans.

Breitbach CJ(1), Burke J, Jonker D, Stephenson J, Haas AR, Chow LQ, Nieva J,
Hwang TH, Moon A, Patt R, Pelusio A, Le Boeuf F, Burns J, Evgin L, De Silva N,
Cvancic S, Robertson T, Je JE, Lee YS, Parato K, Diallo JS, Fenster A, Daneshmand
M, Bell JC, Kirn DH.

Author information: 
(1)Jennerex Inc., 450 Sansome Street, 16th floor, San Francisco, California
94111, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 1;477(7362):40-1.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2011 Nov;8(11):630.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Nov;10(11):814.

The efficacy and safety of biological molecules in cancer therapy, such as
peptides and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), could be markedly increased if high
concentrations could be achieved and amplified selectively in tumour tissues
versus normal tissues after intravenous administration. This has not been
achievable so far in humans. We hypothesized that a poxvirus, which evolved for
blood-borne systemic spread in mammals, could be engineered for cancer-selective 
replication and used as a vehicle for the intravenous delivery and expression of 
transgenes in tumours. JX-594 is an oncolytic poxvirus engineered for
replication, transgene expression and amplification in cancer cells harbouring
activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/Ras pathway, followed
by cell lysis and anticancer immunity. Here we show in a clinical trial that
JX-594 selectively infects, replicates and expresses transgene products in cancer
tissue after intravenous infusion, in a dose-related fashion. Normal tissues were
not affected clinically. This platform technology opens up the possibility of
multifunctional products that selectively express high concentrations of several 
complementary therapeutic and imaging molecules in metastatic solid tumours in
humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10358 
PMID: 21886163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10357.

The ageing systemic milieu negatively regulates neurogenesis and cognitive
function.

Villeda SA(1), Luo J, Mosher KI, Zou B, Britschgi M, Bieri G, Stan TM, Fainberg
N, Ding Z, Eggel A, Lucin KM, Czirr E, Park JS, Couillard-Després S, Aigner L, Li
G, Peskind ER, Kaye JA, Quinn JF, Galasko DR, Xie XS, Rando TA, Wyss-Coray T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 1;477(7362):41-2.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Oct;12(10):547.

In the central nervous system, ageing results in a precipitous decline in adult
neural stem/progenitor cells and neurogenesis, with concomitant impairments in
cognitive functions. Interestingly, such impairments can be ameliorated through
systemic perturbations such as exercise. Here, using heterochronic parabiosis we 
show that blood-borne factors present in the systemic milieu can inhibit or
promote adult neurogenesis in an age-dependent fashion in mice. Accordingly,
exposing a young mouse to an old systemic environment or to plasma from old mice 
decreased synaptic plasticity, and impaired contextual fear conditioning and
spatial learning and memory. We identify chemokines--including CCL11 (also known 
as eotaxin)--the plasma levels of which correlate with reduced neurogenesis in
heterochronic parabionts and aged mice, and the levels of which are increased in 
the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of healthy ageing humans. Lastly, increasing
peripheral CCL11 chemokine levels in vivo in young mice decreased adult
neurogenesis and impaired learning and memory. Together our data indicate that
the decline in neurogenesis and cognitive impairments observed during ageing can 
be in part attributed to changes in blood-borne factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10357 
PMCID: PMC3170097
PMID: 21886162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10372.

An earlier origin for the Acheulian.

Lepre CJ(1), Roche H, Kent DV, Harmand S, Quinn RL, Brugal JP, Texier PJ, Lenoble
A, Feibel CS.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Palisades, New York 10964, USA.
lepre@ldeo.columbia.edu

The Acheulian is one of the first defined prehistoric techno-complexes and is
characterized by shaped bifacial stone tools. It probably originated in Africa,
spreading to Europe and Asia perhaps as early as ∼1 million years (Myr) ago. The 
origin of the Acheulian is thought to have closely coincided with major changes
in human brain evolution, allowing for further technological developments.
Nonetheless, the emergence of the Acheulian remains unclear because well-dated
sites older than 1.4 Myr ago are scarce. Here we report on the lithic assemblage 
and geological context for the Kokiselei 4 archaeological site from the Nachukui 
formation (West Turkana, Kenya) that bears characteristic early Acheulian tools
and pushes the first appearance datum for this stone-age technology back to
1.76 Myr ago. Moreover, co-occurrence of Oldowan and Acheulian artefacts at the
Kokiselei site complex indicates that the two technologies are not mutually
exclusive time-successive components of an evolving cultural lineage, and
suggests that the Acheulian was either imported from another location yet to be
identified or originated from Oldowan hominins at this vicinity. In either case, 
the Acheulian did not accompany the first human dispersal from Africa despite
being available at the time. This may indicate that multiple groups of hominins
distinguished by separate stone-tool-making behaviours and dispersal strategies
coexisted in Africa at 1.76 Myr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10372 
PMID: 21886161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10415.

Increased forest ecosystem carbon and nitrogen storage from nitrogen rich
bedrock.

Morford SL(1), Houlton BZ, Dahlgren RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Land, Air and Water Resources, University of California - Davis,
California 95616, USA. slmorford@ucdavis.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 1;477(7362):39-40.

Nitrogen (N) limits the productivity of many ecosystems worldwide, thereby
restricting the ability of terrestrial ecosystems to offset the effects of rising
atmospheric CO(2) emissions naturally. Understanding input pathways of
bioavailable N is therefore paramount for predicting carbon (C) storage on land, 
particularly in temperate and boreal forests. Paradigms of nutrient cycling and
limitation posit that new N enters terrestrial ecosystems solely from the
atmosphere. Here we show that bedrock comprises a hitherto overlooked source of
ecologically available N to forests. We report that the N content of soils and
forest foliage on N-rich metasedimentary rocks (350-950 mg N kg(-1)) is elevated 
by more than 50% compared with similar temperate forest sites underlain by N-poor
igneous parent material (30-70 mg N kg(-1)). Natural abundance N isotopes
attribute this difference to rock-derived N: (15)N/(14)N values for rock, soils
and plants are indistinguishable in sites underlain by N-rich lithology, in
marked contrast to sites on N-poor substrates. Furthermore, forests associated
with N-rich parent material contain on average 42% more carbon in above-ground
tree biomass and 60% more carbon in the upper 30 cm of the soil than similar
sites underlain by N-poor rocks. Our results raise the possibility that bedrock N
input may represent an important and overlooked component of ecosystem N and C
cycling elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10415 
PMID: 21886160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10376.

Real-time quantum feedback prepares and stabilizes photon number states.

Sayrin C(1), Dotsenko I, Zhou X, Peaudecerf B, Rybarczyk T, Gleyzes S, Rouchon P,
Mirrahimi M, Amini H, Brune M, Raimond JM, Haroche S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Kastler Brossel, ENS, UPMC-Paris 6, CNRS, 24 rue Lhomond, 75005
Paris, France.

Feedback loops are central to most classical control procedures. A controller
compares the signal measured by a sensor (system output) with the target value or
set-point. It then adjusts an actuator (system input) to stabilize the signal
around the target value. Generalizing this scheme to stabilize a micro-system's
quantum state relies on quantum feedback, which must overcome a fundamental
difficulty: the sensor measurements cause a random back-action on the system. An 
optimal compromise uses weak measurements, providing partial information with
minimal perturbation. The controller should include the effect of this
perturbation in the computation of the actuator's operation, which brings the
incrementally perturbed state closer to the target. Although some aspects of this
scenario have been experimentally demonstrated for the control of quantum or
classical micro-system variables, continuous feedback loop operations that
permanently stabilize quantum systems around a target state have not yet been
realized. Here we have implemented such a real-time stabilizing quantum feedback 
scheme following a method inspired by ref. 13. It prepares on demand photon
number states (Fock states) of a microwave field in a superconducting cavity, and
subsequently reverses the effects of decoherence-induced field quantum jumps. The
sensor is a beam of atoms crossing the cavity, which repeatedly performs weak
quantum non-demolition measurements of the photon number. The controller is
implemented in a real-time computer commanding the actuator, which injects
adjusted small classical fields into the cavity between measurements. The
microwave field is a quantum oscillator usable as a quantum memory or as a
quantum bus swapping information between atoms. Our experiment demonstrates that 
active control can generate non-classical states of this oscillator and combat
their decoherence, and is a significant step towards the implementation of
complex quantum information operations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10376 
PMID: 21886159 


283. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):67-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10377.

An extremely primitive star in the Galactic halo.

Caffau E(1), Bonifacio P, François P, Sbordone L, Monaco L, Spite M, Spite F,
Ludwig HG, Cayrel R, Zaggia S, Hammer F, Randich S, Molaro P, Hill V.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Astronomie der Universität Heidelberg, Landessternwarte,
Königstuhl 12, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany. Elisabetta.Caffau@obspm.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 1;477(7362):37, 39.

The early Universe had a chemical composition consisting of hydrogen, helium and 
traces of lithium; almost all other elements were subsequently created in stars
and supernovae. The mass fraction of elements more massive than helium, Z, is
known as 'metallicity'. A number of very metal-poor stars has been found, some of
which have a low iron abundance but are rich in carbon, nitrogen and oxygen. For 
theoretical reasons and because of an observed absence of stars with
Z < 1.5 × 10(-5), it has been suggested that low-mass stars cannot form from the 
primitive interstellar medium until it has been enriched above a critical value
of Z, estimated to lie in the range 1.5 × 10(-8) to 1.5 × 10(-6) (ref. 8),
although competing theories claiming the contrary do exist. (We use 'low-mass'
here to mean a stellar mass of less than 0.8 solar masses, the stars that survive
to the present day.) Here we report the chemical composition of a star in the
Galactic halo with a very low Z (≤ 6.9 × 10(-7), which is 4.5 × 10(-5) times that
of the Sun) and a chemical pattern typical of classical extremely metal-poor
stars--that is, without enrichment of carbon, nitrogen and oxygen. This shows
that low-mass stars can be formed at very low metallicity, that is, below the
critical value of Z. Lithium is not detected, suggesting a low-metallicity
extension of the previously observed trend in lithium depletion. Such lithium
depletion implies that the stellar material must have experienced temperatures
above two million kelvin in its history, given that this is necessary to destroy 
lithium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10377 
PMID: 21886158 


284. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):54-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10354.

Human metabolic individuality in biomedical and pharmaceutical research.

Suhre K(1)(2)(3), Shin SY(#)(4), Petersen AK(#)(5), Mohney RP(6), Meredith D(7), 
Wägele B(1)(8), Altmaier E(1); CARDIoGRAM, Deloukas P(4), Erdmann J(9), Grundberg
E(4)(10), Hammond CJ(10), de Angelis MH(11)(12), Kastenmüller G(1), Köttgen
A(13), Kronenberg F(14), Mangino M(10), Meisinger C(15), Meitinger T(16)(17),
Mewes HW(1)(8), Milburn MV(6), Prehn C(11), Raffler J(1)(2), Ried JS(4),
Römisch-Margl W(1), Samani NJ(18), Small KS(10), Wichmann HE(19)(20)(21), Zhai
G(10), Illig T(22), Spector TD(10), Adamski J(11), Soranzo N(#)(4), Gieger
C(#)(5).

Collaborators: Kathiresan S, Reilly MP, Samani NJ, Schunkert H, Erdmann J,
Assimes TL, Boerwinkle E, Erdmann J, Hall A, Hengstenberg C, Kathiresan S, König 
IR, Laaksonen R, McPherson R, Reilly MP, Samani NJ, Schunkert H, Thompson JR,
Thorsteinsdottir U, Ziegler A, König IR, Thompson JR, Absher D, Chen L, Cupples
LA, Halperin E, Li M, Musunuru K, Preuss M, Schillert A, Thorleifsson G, Voight
BF, Wells GA, Absher D, Assimes TL, Deloukas P, Erdmann J, Holm H, Kathiresan S, 
König IR, McPherson R, Reilly MP, Roberts R, Samani NJ, Schunkert H, Stewart AF, 
Fortmann S, Go A, Hlatky M, Iribarren C, Knowles J, Myers R, Quertermous T,
Sidney S, Risch N, Tang H, Blankenberg S, Zeller T, Schillert A, Wild P, Ziegler 
A, Schnabel R, Sinning C, Lackner K, Tiret L, Nicaud V, Cambien F, Bickel C,
Rupprecht HJ, Perret C, Proust C, Münzel T, Barbalic M, Bis J, Boerwinkle E, Chen
IY, Cupples LA, Dehghan A, Demissie-Banjaw S, Folsom A, Glazer N, Gudnason V,
Harris T, Heckbert S, Levy D, Lumley T, Marciante K, Morrison A, O'Donnell CJ,
Psaty BM, Rice K, Rotter JI, Siscovick DS, Smith N, Smith A, Taylor KD, van Duijn
C, Volcik K, Whitteman J, Ramachandran V, Hofman A, Uitterlinden A, Gretarsdottir
S, Gulcher JR, Holm H, Kong A, Stefansson K, Thorgeirsson G, Andersen K,
Thorleifsson G, Thorsteinsdottir U, Erdmann J, Fischer M, Grosshennig A,
Hengstenberg C, König IR, Lieb W, Linsel-Nitschke P, Preuss M, Stark K, Schreiber
S, Wichmann HE, Ziegler A, Schunkert H, Aherrahrou Z, Bruse P, Doering A, Erdmann
J, Hengstenberg C, Illig T, Klopp N, König IR, Linsel-Nitschke P, Loley C, Medack
A, Meisinger C, Meitinger T, Nahrstedt J, Peters A, Preuss M, Stark K, Wagner AK,
Wichmann HE, Willenborg C, Ziegler A, Schunkert H, Böhm BO, Dobnig H, Grammer TB,
Halperin E, Hoffmann MM, Kleber M, Laaksonen R, März W, Meinitzer A, Winkelmann
BR, Pilz S, Renner W, Scharnagl H, Stojakovic T, Tomaschitz A, Winkler K, Voight 
BF, Musunuru K, Guiducci C, Burtt N, Gabriel SB, Siscovick DS, O'Donnell CJ,
Elosua R, Peltonen L, Salomaa V, Schwartz SM, Melander O, Altshuler D, Kathiresan
S, Stewart AF, Chen L, Dandona S, Wells GA, Jarinova O, McPherson R, Roberts R,
Reilly MP, Li M, Qu L, Wilensky R, Matthai W, Hakonarson HH, Devaney J, Burnett
MS, Pichard AD, Kent KM, Satler L, Lindsay JM, Waksman R, Knouff CW, Waterworth
DM, Walker MC, Mooser V, Epstein SE, Rader DJ, Samani NJ, Thompson JR, Braund PS,
Nelson CP, Wright BJ, Balmforth AJ, Ball SG, Hall AS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum München,
German Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(2)Faculty of Biology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Planegg-Martinsried,
Germany.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College in
Qatar, Education City - Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.
(4)The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton UK.
(5)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(6)Metabolon Inc., Durham, North Carolina, USA.
(7)School of Life Sciences, Oxford Brookes University, Headington, Oxford, UK.
(8)Department of Genome-oriented Bioinformatics, Life and Food Science Center
Weihenstephan, Technische Universität München, Freising-Weihenstephan, Germany.
(9)Universität zu Lübeck, Medizinische Klinik II, Lübeck, Germany.
(10)Department of Twin Research & Genetic Epidemiology, King's College London,
UK.
(11)Institute of Experimental Genetics, Genome Analysis Center, Helmholtz Zentrum
München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(12)Institute of Experimental Genetics, Life and Food Science Center
Weihenstephan, Technische Universität München, Freising-Weihenstephan, Germany.
(13)Renal Division, University Hospital Freiburg, Germany.
(14)Division of Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Medical Genetics, Molecular
and Clinical Pharmacology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.
(15)Institute of Epidemiology II, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(16)Institute of Human Genetics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(17)Institute of Human Genetics, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische Universität
München, Munich, Germany.
(18)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester, and Leicester
NIHR Biomedical Research Unit in Cardiovascular Disease, Glenfield Hospital,
Leicester, UK.
(19)Institute of Epidemiology I, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(20)Institute of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, Chair of
Epidemiology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Munich, Germany.
(21)Klinikum Grosshadern, Munich, Germany.
(22)Unit for Molecular Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Pharmacogenomics. 2011 Dec;12(12):1637-8.
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2011 Dec;4(6):714-5.
    Pharmacogenomics. 2013 Mar;14(4):357-60.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified many risk loci for complex
diseases, but effect sizes are typically small and information on the underlying 
biological processes is often lacking. Associations with metabolic traits as
functional intermediates can overcome these problems and potentially inform
individualized therapy. Here we report a comprehensive analysis of
genotype-dependent metabolic phenotypes using a GWAS with non-targeted
metabolomics. We identified 37 genetic loci associated with blood metabolite
concentrations, of which 25 show effect sizes that are unusually high for GWAS
and account for 10-60% differences in metabolite levels per allele copy. Our
associations provide new functional insights for many disease-related
associations that have been reported in previous studies, including those for
cardiovascular and kidney disorders, type 2 diabetes, cancer, gout, venous
thromboembolism and Crohn's disease. The study advances our knowledge of the
genetic basis of metabolic individuality in humans and generates many new
hypotheses for biomedical and pharmaceutical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10354 
PMCID: PMC3832838
PMID: 21886157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7362):45-53. doi: 10.1038/nature10381.

Synthesis, assembly and applications of semiconductor nanomembranes.

Rogers JA(1), Lagally MG, Nuzzo RG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA. jrogers@illinois.edu

Research in electronic nanomaterials, historically dominated by studies of
nanocrystals/fullerenes and nanowires/nanotubes, now incorporates a growing focus
on sheets with nanoscale thicknesses, referred to as nanomembranes. Such
materials have practical appeal because their two-dimensional geometries
facilitate integration into devices, with realistic pathways to manufacturing.
Recent advances in synthesis provide access to nanomembranes with extraordinary
properties in a variety of configurations, some of which exploit quantum and
other size-dependent effects. This progress, together with emerging methods for
deterministic assembly, leads to compelling opportunities for research, from
basic studies of two-dimensional physics to the development of applications of
heterogeneous electronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10381 
PMID: 21886156 


286. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7366):587-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10390.

The genome of the green anole lizard and a comparative analysis with birds and
mammals.

Alföldi J(1), Di Palma F, Grabherr M, Williams C, Kong L, Mauceli E, Russell P,
Lowe CB, Glor RE, Jaffe JD, Ray DA, Boissinot S, Shedlock AM, Botka C, Castoe TA,
Colbourne JK, Fujita MK, Moreno RG, ten Hallers BF, Haussler D, Heger A, Heiman
D, Janes DE, Johnson J, de Jong PJ, Koriabine MY, Lara M, Novick PA, Organ CL,
Peach SE, Poe S, Pollock DD, de Queiroz K, Sanger T, Searle S, Smith JD, Smith Z,
Swofford R, Turner-Maier J, Wade J, Young S, Zadissa A, Edwards SV, Glenn TC,
Schneider CJ, Losos JB, Lander ES, Breen M, Ponting CP, Lindblad-Toh K.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
jalfoldi@broadinstitute.org

The evolution of the amniotic egg was one of the great evolutionary innovations
in the history of life, freeing vertebrates from an obligatory connection to
water and thus permitting the conquest of terrestrial environments. Among
amniotes, genome sequences are available for mammals and birds, but not for
non-avian reptiles. Here we report the genome sequence of the North American
green anole lizard, Anolis carolinensis. We find that A. carolinensis
microchromosomes are highly syntenic with chicken microchromosomes, yet do not
exhibit the high GC and low repeat content that are characteristic of avian
microchromosomes. Also, A. carolinensis mobile elements are very young and
diverse-more so than in any other sequenced amniote genome. The GC content of
this lizard genome is also unusual in its homogeneity, unlike the regionally
variable GC content found in mammals and birds. We describe and assign sequence
to the previously unknown A. carolinensis X chromosome. Comparative gene analysis
shows that amniote egg proteins have evolved significantly more rapidly than
other proteins. An anole phylogeny resolves basal branches to illuminate the
history of their repeated adaptive radiations.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10390 
PMCID: PMC3184186
PMID: 21881562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7365):457-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10388.

Antibiotic resistance is ancient.

D'Costa VM(1), King CE, Kalan L, Morar M, Sung WW, Schwarz C, Froese D, Zazula G,
Calmels F, Debruyne R, Golding GB, Poinar HN, Wright GD.

Author information: 
(1)Michael G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, McMaster
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, L8N 3Z5.

The discovery of antibiotics more than 70 years ago initiated a period of drug
innovation and implementation in human and animal health and agriculture. These
discoveries were tempered in all cases by the emergence of resistant microbes.
This history has been interpreted to mean that antibiotic resistance in
pathogenic bacteria is a modern phenomenon; this view is reinforced by the fact
that collections of microbes that predate the antibiotic era are highly
susceptible to antibiotics. Here we report targeted metagenomic analyses of
rigorously authenticated ancient DNA from 30,000-year-old Beringian permafrost
sediments and the identification of a highly diverse collection of genes encoding
resistance to β-lactam, tetracycline and glycopeptide antibiotics. Structure and 
function studies on the complete vancomycin resistance element VanA confirmed its
similarity to modern variants. These results show conclusively that antibiotic
resistance is a natural phenomenon that predates the modern selective pressure of
clinical antibiotic use.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10388 
PMID: 21881561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;477(7365):431-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10364.

A close nuclear black-hole pair in the spiral galaxy NGC 3393.

Fabbiano G(1), Wang J, Elvis M, Risaliti G.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA), 60 Garden Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. gfabbiano@cfa.harvard.edu

The current picture of galaxy evolution advocates co-evolution of galaxies and
their nuclear massive black holes, through accretion and galactic merging. Pairs 
of quasars, each with a massive black hole at the centre of its galaxy, have
separations of 6,000 to 300,000 light years (refs 2 and 3; 1 parsec = 3.26 light 
years) and exemplify the first stages of this gravitational interaction. The
final stages of the black-hole merging process, through binary black holes and
final collapse into a single black hole with gravitational wave emission, are
consistent with the sub-light-year separation inferred from the optical spectra
and light-variability of two such quasars. The double active nuclei of a few
nearby galaxies with disrupted morphology and intense star formation (such as NGC
6240 with a separation of about 2,600 light years and Mrk 463 with a separation
of about 13,000 light years between the nuclei) demonstrate the importance of
major mergers of equal-mass spiral galaxies in this evolution; such mergers lead 
to an elliptical galaxy, as in the case of the double-radio-nucleus elliptical
galaxy 0402+379 (with a separation of about 24 light years between the nuclei).
Minor mergers of a spiral galaxy with a smaller companion should be a more common
occurrence, evolving into spiral galaxies with active massive black-hole pairs,
but have hitherto not been seen. Here we report the presence of two active
massive black holes, separated by about 490 light years, in the Seyfert galaxy
NGC 3393 (50 Mpc, about 160 million light years). The regular spiral morphology
and predominantly old circum-nuclear stellar population of this galaxy, and the
closeness of the black holes embedded in the bulge, provide a hitherto missing
observational point to the study of galaxy/black hole evolution. Comparison of
our observations with current theoretical models of mergers suggests that they
are the result of minor merger evolution.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10364 
PMID: 21881560 


289. Nature. 2011 Aug 31;478(7367):97-102. doi: 10.1038/nature10406.

Mirror extreme BMI phenotypes associated with gene dosage at the chromosome
16p11.2 locus.

Jacquemont S(1), Reymond A, Zufferey F, Harewood L, Walters RG, Kutalik Z,
Martinet D, Shen Y, Valsesia A, Beckmann ND, Thorleifsson G, Belfiore M,
Bouquillon S, Campion D, de Leeuw N, de Vries BB, Esko T, Fernandez BA,
Fernández-Aranda F, Fernández-Real JM, Gratacòs M, Guilmatre A, Hoyer J, Jarvelin
MR, Kooy RF, Kurg A, Le Caignec C, Männik K, Platt OS, Sanlaville D, Van Haelst
MM, Villatoro Gomez S, Walha F, Wu BL, Yu Y, Aboura A, Addor MC, Alembik Y,
Antonarakis SE, Arveiler B, Barth M, Bednarek N, Béna F, Bergmann S, Beri M,
Bernardini L, Blaumeiser B, Bonneau D, Bottani A, Boute O, Brunner HG, Cailley D,
Callier P, Chiesa J, Chrast J, Coin L, Coutton C, Cuisset JM, Cuvellier JC, David
A, de Freminville B, Delobel B, Delrue MA, Demeer B, Descamps D, Didelot G,
Dieterich K, Disciglio V, Doco-Fenzy M, Drunat S, Duban-Bedu B, Dubourg C,
El-Sayed Moustafa JS, Elliott P, Faas BH, Faivre L, Faudet A, Fellmann F,
Ferrarini A, Fisher R, Flori E, Forer L, Gaillard D, Gerard M, Gieger C, Gimelli 
S, Gimelli G, Grabe HJ, Guichet A, Guillin O, Hartikainen AL, Heron D, Hippolyte 
L, Holder M, Homuth G, Isidor B, Jaillard S, Jaros Z, Jiménez-Murcia S, Helas GJ,
Jonveaux P, Kaksonen S, Keren B, Kloss-Brandstätter A, Knoers NV, Koolen DA,
Kroisel PM, Kronenberg F, Labalme A, Landais E, Lapi E, Layet V, Legallic S,
Leheup B, Leube B, Lewis S, Lucas J, MacDermot KD, Magnusson P, Marshall C,
Mathieu-Dramard M, McCarthy MI, Meitinger T, Mencarelli MA, Merla G, Moerman A,
Mooser V, Morice-Picard F, Mucciolo M, Nauck M, Ndiaye NC, Nordgren A, Pasquier
L, Petit F, Pfundt R, Plessis G, Rajcan-Separovic E, Ramelli GP, Rauch A,
Ravazzolo R, Reis A, Renieri A, Richart C, Ried JS, Rieubland C, Roberts W,
Roetzer KM, Rooryck C, Rossi M, Saemundsen E, Satre V, Schurmann C, Sigurdsson E,
Stavropoulos DJ, Stefansson H, Tengström C, Thorsteinsdóttir U, Tinahones FJ,
Touraine R, Vallée L, van Binsbergen E, Van der Aa N, Vincent-Delorme C,
Visvikis-Siest S, Vollenweider P, Völzke H, Vulto-van Silfhout AT, Waeber G,
Wallgren-Pettersson C, Witwicki RM, Zwolinksi S, Andrieux J, Estivill X, Gusella 
JF, Gustafsson O, Metspalu A, Scherer SW, Stefansson K, Blakemore AI, Beckmann
JS, Froguel P.

Author information: 
(1)Service of Medical Genetics, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, 1011
Lausanne, Switzerland.

Both obesity and being underweight have been associated with increased mortality.
Underweight, defined as a body mass index (BMI) ≤ 18.5 kg per m(2) in adults and 
≤ -2 standard deviations from the mean in children, is the main sign of a series 
of heterogeneous clinical conditions including failure to thrive, feeding and
eating disorder and/or anorexia nervosa. In contrast to obesity, few genetic
variants underlying these clinical conditions have been reported. We previously
showed that hemizygosity of a ∼600-kilobase (kb) region on the short arm of
chromosome 16 causes a highly penetrant form of obesity that is often associated 
with hyperphagia and intellectual disabilities. Here we show that the
corresponding reciprocal duplication is associated with being underweight. We
identified 138 duplication carriers (including 132 novel cases and 108 unrelated 
carriers) from individuals clinically referred for developmental or intellectual 
disabilities (DD/ID) or psychiatric disorders, or recruited from population-based
cohorts. These carriers show significantly reduced postnatal weight and BMI. Half
of the boys younger than five years are underweight with a probable diagnosis of 
failure to thrive, whereas adult duplication carriers have an 8.3-fold increased 
risk of being clinically underweight. We observe a trend towards increased
severity in males, as well as a depletion of male carriers among non-medically
ascertained cases. These features are associated with an unusually high frequency
of selective and restrictive eating behaviours and a significant reduction in
head circumference. Each of the observed phenotypes is the converse of one
reported in carriers of deletions at this locus. The phenotypes correlate with
changes in transcript levels for genes mapping within the duplication but not in 
flanking regions. The reciprocal impact of these 16p11.2 copy-number variants
indicates that severe obesity and being underweight could have mirror
aetiologies, possibly through contrasting effects on energy balance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10406 
PMCID: PMC3637175
PMID: 21881559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2011 Aug 28;477(7365):419-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10414.

Multiple reference genomes and transcriptomes for Arabidopsis thaliana.

Gan X(1), Stegle O, Behr J, Steffen JG, Drewe P, Hildebrand KL, Lyngsoe R,
Schultheiss SJ, Osborne EJ, Sreedharan VT, Kahles A, Bohnert R, Jean G, Derwent
P, Kersey P, Belfield EJ, Harberd NP, Kemen E, Toomajian C, Kover PX, Clark RM,
Rätsch G, Mott R.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3
7BN, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 22;477(7365):415-6.

Genetic differences between Arabidopsis thaliana accessions underlie the plant's 
extensive phenotypic variation, and until now these have been interpreted largely
in the context of the annotated reference accession Col-0. Here we report the
sequencing, assembly and annotation of the genomes of 18 natural A. thaliana
accessions, and their transcriptomes. When assessed on the basis of the reference
annotation, one-third of protein-coding genes are predicted to be disrupted in at
least one accession. However, re-annotation of each genome revealed that
alternative gene models often restore coding potential. Gene expression in
seedlings differed for nearly half of expressed genes and was frequently
associated with cis variants within 5 kilobases, as were intron retention
alternative splicing events. Sequence and expression variation is most pronounced
in genes that respond to the biotic environment. Our data further promote
evolutionary and functional studies in A. thaliana, especially the MAGIC genetic 
reference population descended from these accessions.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10414 
PMCID: PMC4856438
PMID: 21874022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 2011 Aug 28;477(7366):592-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10394.

Innate immune recognition of bacterial ligands by NAIPs determines inflammasome
specificity.

Kofoed EM(1), Vance RE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology and Pathogenesis, Department of Molecular and Cell
Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Oct;11(10):644.
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):543-4.

Inflammasomes are a family of cytosolic multiprotein complexes that initiate
innate immune responses to pathogenic microbes by activating the caspase 1
protease. Although genetic data support a critical role for inflammasomes in
immune defence and inflammatory diseases, the molecular basis by which individual
inflammasomes respond to specific stimuli remains poorly understood. The
inflammasome that contains the NLRC4 (NLR family, CARD domain containing 4)
protein was previously shown to be activated in response to two distinct
bacterial proteins, flagellin and PrgJ, a conserved component of
pathogen-associated type III secretion systems. However, direct binding between
NLRC4 and flagellin or PrgJ has never been demonstrated. A homologue of NLRC4,
NAIP5 (NLR family, apoptosis inhibitory protein 5), has been implicated in
activation of NLRC4 (refs 7-11), but is widely assumed to have only an auxiliary 
role, as NAIP5 is often dispensable for NLRC4 activation. However, Naip5 is a
member of a small multigene family, raising the possibility of redundancy and
functional specialization among Naip genes. Here we show in mice that different
NAIP paralogues determine the specificity of the NLRC4 inflammasome for distinct 
bacterial ligands. In particular, we found that activation of endogenous NLRC4 by
bacterial PrgJ requires NAIP2, a previously uncharacterized member of the NAIP
gene family, whereas NAIP5 and NAIP6 activate NLRC4 specifically in response to
bacterial flagellin. We dissected the biochemical mechanism underlying the
requirement for NAIP proteins by use of a reconstituted NLRC4 inflammasome
system. We found that NAIP proteins control ligand-dependent oligomerization of
NLRC4 and that the NAIP2-NLRC4 complex physically associates with PrgJ but not
flagellin, whereas NAIP5-NLRC4 associates with flagellin but not PrgJ. Our
results identify NAIPs as immune sensor proteins and provide biochemical evidence
for a simple receptor-ligand model for activation of the NAIP-NLRC4
inflammasomes.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10394 
PMCID: PMC3184209
PMID: 21874021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2011 Aug 28;477(7364):354-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10379.

In vitro centromere and kinetochore assembly on defined chromatin templates.

Guse A(1), Carroll CW, Moree B, Fuller CJ, Straight AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford Medical School, Beckman 409A, Stanford,
California 94305-5307, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 15;477(7364):283-5.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Oct;12(10):626.

During cell division, chromosomes are segregated to nascent daughter cells by
attaching to the microtubules of the mitotic spindle through the kinetochore.
Kinetochores are assembled on a specialized chromatin domain called the
centromere, which is characterized by the replacement of nucleosomal histone H3
with the histone H3 variant centromere protein A (CENP-A). CENP-A is essential
for centromere and kinetochore formation in all eukaryotes but it is unknown how 
CENP-A chromatin directs centromere and kinetochore assembly. Here we generate
synthetic CENP-A chromatin that recapitulates essential steps of centromere and
kinetochore assembly in vitro. We show that reconstituted CENP-A chromatin when
added to cell-free extracts is sufficient for the assembly of centromere and
kinetochore proteins, microtubule binding and stabilization, and mitotic
checkpoint function. Using chromatin assembled from histone H3/CENP-A chimaeras, 
we demonstrate that the conserved carboxy terminus of CENP-A is necessary and
sufficient for centromere and kinetochore protein recruitment and function but
that the CENP-A targeting domain--required for new CENP-A histone assembly--is
not. These data show that two of the primary requirements for accurate chromosome
segregation, the assembly of the kinetochore and the propagation of CENP-A
chromatin, are specified by different elements in the CENP-A histone. Our unique 
cell-free system enables complete control and manipulation of the chromatin
substrate and thus presents a powerful tool to study centromere and kinetochore
assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10379 
PMCID: PMC3175311
PMID: 21874020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Nature. 2011 Aug 28;477(7365):495-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10370.

Structural basis of PIP2 activation of the classical inward rectifier K+ channel 
Kir2.2.

Hansen SB(1), Tao X, MacKinnon R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology & Biophysics, The Rockefeller University,
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

The regulation of ion channel activity by specific lipid molecules is widely
recognized as an integral component of electrical signalling in cells. In
particular, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)), a minor yet dynamic
phospholipid component of cell membranes, is known to regulate many different ion
channels. PIP(2) is the primary agonist for classical inward rectifier (Kir2)
channels, through which this lipid can regulate a cell's resting membrane
potential. However, the molecular mechanism by which PIP(2) exerts its action is 
unknown. Here we present the X-ray crystal structure of a Kir2.2 channel in
complex with a short-chain (dioctanoyl) derivative of PIP(2). We found that
PIP(2) binds at an interface between the transmembrane domain (TMD) and the
cytoplasmic domain (CTD). The PIP(2)-binding site consists of a conserved
non-specific phospholipid-binding region in the TMD and a specific
phosphatidylinositol-binding region in the CTD. On PIP(2) binding, a flexible
expansion linker contracts to a compact helical structure, the CTD translates 6 Å
and becomes tethered to the TMD and the inner helix gate begins to open. In
contrast, the small anionic lipid dioctanoyl glycerol pyrophosphatidic acid (PPA)
also binds to the non-specific TMD region, but not to the specific
phosphatidylinositol region, and thus fails to engage the CTD or open the
channel. Our results show how PIP(2) can control the resting membrane potential
through a specific ion-channel-receptor-ligand interaction that brings about a
large conformational change, analogous to neurotransmitter activation of ion
channels at synapses.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10370 
PMCID: PMC3324908
PMID: 21874019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 2011 Aug 28;477(7364):295-300. doi: 10.1038/nature10398.

lincRNAs act in the circuitry controlling pluripotency and differentiation.

Guttman M(1), Donaghey J, Carey BW, Garber M, Grenier JK, Munson G, Young G,
Lucas AB, Ach R, Bruhn L, Yang X, Amit I, Meissner A, Regev A, Rinn JL, Root DE, 
Lander ES.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA. mguttman@mit.edu

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Apr 27;110(9):1162-5.

Although thousands of large intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) have been
identified in mammals, few have been functionally characterized, leading to
debate about their biological role. To address this, we performed
loss-of-function studies on most lincRNAs expressed in mouse embryonic stem (ES) 
cells and characterized the effects on gene expression. Here we show that
knockdown of lincRNAs has major consequences on gene expression patterns,
comparable to knockdown of well-known ES cell regulators. Notably, lincRNAs
primarily affect gene expression in trans. Knockdown of dozens of lincRNAs causes
either exit from the pluripotent state or upregulation of lineage commitment
programs. We integrate lincRNAs into the molecular circuitry of ES cells and show
that lincRNA genes are regulated by key transcription factors and that lincRNA
transcripts bind to multiple chromatin regulatory proteins to affect shared gene 
expression programs. Together, the results demonstrate that lincRNAs have key
roles in the circuitry controlling ES cell state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10398 
PMCID: PMC3175327
PMID: 21874018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):472-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10250.

A plastidial sodium-dependent pyruvate transporter.

Furumoto T(1), Yamaguchi T, Ohshima-Ichie Y, Nakamura M, Tsuchida-Iwata Y,
Shimamura M, Ohnishi J, Hata S, Gowik U, Westhoff P, Bräutigam A, Weber AP, Izui 
K.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science, Hiroshima University, 1-3-1, Kagamiyama,
Higashi-Hiroshima, 739-8526, Japan. tfurumoto@hiroshima-u.ac.jp

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):274.

Pyruvate serves as a metabolic precursor for many plastid-localized biosynthetic 
pathways, such as those for fatty acids, terpenoids and branched-chain amino
acids. In spite of the importance of pyruvate uptake into plastids (organelles
within cells of plants and algae), the molecular mechanisms of this uptake have
not yet been explored. This is mainly because pyruvate is a relatively small
compound that is able to passively permeate lipid bilayers, which precludes
accurate measurement of pyruvate transport activity in reconstituted liposomes.
Using differential transcriptome analyses of C(3) and C(4) plants of the genera
Flaveria and Cleome, here we have identified a novel gene that is abundant in
C(4) species, named BASS2 (BILE ACID:SODIUM SYMPORTER FAMILY PROTEIN 2). The
BASS2 protein is localized at the chloroplast envelope membrane, and is highly
abundant in C(4) plants that have the sodium-dependent pyruvate transporter.
Recombinant BASS2 shows sodium-dependent pyruvate uptake activity. Sodium influx 
is balanced by a sodium:proton antiporter (NHD1), which was mimicked in
recombinant Escherichia coli cells expressing both BASS2 and NHD1. Arabidopsis
thaliana bass2 mutants lack pyruvate uptake into chloroplasts, which affects
plastid-localized isopentenyl diphosphate synthesis, as evidenced by increased
sensitivity of such mutants to mevastatin, an inhibitor of cytosolic isopentenyl 
diphosphate biosynthesis. We thus provide molecular evidence for a sodium-coupled
metabolite transporter in plastid envelopes. Orthologues of BASS2 can be detected
in all the genomes of land plants that have been characterized so far, thus
indicating the widespread importance of sodium-coupled pyruvate import into
plastids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10250 
PMID: 21866161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):454-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10356.

Successful establishment of Wolbachia in Aedes populations to suppress dengue
transmission.

Hoffmann AA(1), Montgomery BL, Popovici J, Iturbe-Ormaetxe I, Johnson PH, Muzzi
F, Greenfield M, Durkan M, Leong YS, Dong Y, Cook H, Axford J, Callahan AG, Kenny
N, Omodei C, McGraw EA, Ryan PA, Ritchie SA, Turelli M, O'Neill SL.

Author information: 
(1)Bio21 Institute, Department of Genetics, The University of Melbourne, Victoria
3010, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 25;476(7361):407-8.

Genetic manipulations of insect populations for pest control have been advocated 
for some time, but there are few cases where manipulated individuals have been
released in the field and no cases where they have successfully invaded target
populations. Population transformation using the intracellular bacterium
Wolbachia is particularly attractive because this maternally-inherited agent
provides a powerful mechanism to invade natural populations through cytoplasmic
incompatibility. When Wolbachia are introduced into mosquitoes, they interfere
with pathogen transmission and influence key life history traits such as
lifespan. Here we describe how the wMel Wolbachia infection, introduced into the 
dengue vector Aedes aegypti from Drosophila melanogaster, successfully invaded
two natural A. aegypti populations in Australia, reaching near-fixation in a few 
months following releases of wMel-infected A. aegypti adults. Models with
plausible parameter values indicate that Wolbachia-infected mosquitoes suffered
relatively small fitness costs, leading to an unstable equilibrium frequency <30%
that must be exceeded for invasion. These findings demonstrate that
Wolbachia-based strategies can be deployed as a practical approach to dengue
suppression with potential for area-wide implementation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10356 
PMID: 21866160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):450-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10355.

The wMel Wolbachia strain blocks dengue and invades caged Aedes aegypti
populations.

Walker T(1), Johnson PH, Moreira LA, Iturbe-Ormaetxe I, Frentiu FD, McMeniman CJ,
Leong YS, Dong Y, Axford J, Kriesner P, Lloyd AL, Ritchie SA, O'Neill SL,
Hoffmann AA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland 4072, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 25;476(7361):407-8.

Dengue fever is the most important mosquito-borne viral disease of humans with
more than 50 million cases estimated annually in more than 100 countries.
Disturbingly, the geographic range of dengue is currently expanding and the
severity of outbreaks is increasing. Control options for dengue are very limited 
and currently focus on reducing population abundance of the major mosquito
vector, Aedes aegypti. These strategies are failing to reduce dengue incidence in
tropical communities and there is an urgent need for effective alternatives. It
has been proposed that endosymbiotic bacterial Wolbachia infections of insects
might be used in novel strategies for dengue control. For example, the
wMelPop-CLA Wolbachia strain reduces the lifespan of adult A. aegypti mosquitoes 
in stably transinfected lines. This life-shortening phenotype was predicted to
reduce the potential for dengue transmission. The recent discovery that several
Wolbachia infections, including wMelPop-CLA, can also directly influence the
susceptibility of insects to infection with a range of insect and human pathogens
has markedly changed the potential for Wolbachia infections to control human
diseases. Here we describe the successful transinfection of A. aegypti with the
avirulent wMel strain of Wolbachia, which induces the reproductive phenotype
cytoplasmic incompatibility with minimal apparent fitness costs and high maternal
transmission, providing optimal phenotypic effects for invasion. Under semi-field
conditions, the wMel strain increased from an initial starting frequency of 0.65 
to near fixation within a few generations, invading A. aegypti populations at an 
accelerated rate relative to trials with the wMelPop-CLA strain. We also show
that wMel and wMelPop-CLA strains block transmission of dengue serotype 2
(DENV-2) in A. aegypti, forming the basis of a practical approach to dengue
suppression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10355 
PMID: 21866159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):442-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10291.

A Jurassic eutherian mammal and divergence of marsupials and placentals.

Luo ZX(1), Yuan CX, Meng QJ, Ji Q.

Author information: 
(1)Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.
luoz@carnegiemnh.org

Placentals are the most abundant mammals that have diversified into every niche
for vertebrates and dominated the world's terrestrial biotas in the Cenozoic. A
critical event in mammalian history is the divergence of eutherians, the clade
inclusive of all living placentals, from the metatherian-marsupial clade. Here we
report the discovery of a new eutherian of 160 Myr from the Jurassic of China,
which extends the first appearance of the eutherian-placental clade by about
35 Myr from the previous record, reducing and resolving a discrepancy between the
previous fossil record and the molecular estimate for the placental-marsupial
divergence. This mammal has scansorial forelimb features, and provides the
ancestral condition for dental and other anatomical features of eutherians.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10291 
PMID: 21866158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):438-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10311.

Civil conflicts are associated with the global climate.

Hsiang SM(1), Meng KC, Cane MA.

Author information: 
(1)School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University, New York, New
York 10027, USA. shsiang@princeton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 25;476(7361):406-7.

It has been proposed that changes in global climate have been responsible for
episodes of widespread violence and even the collapse of civilizations. Yet
previous studies have not shown that violence can be attributed to the global
climate, only that random weather events might be correlated with conflict in
some cases. Here we directly associate planetary-scale climate changes with
global patterns of civil conflict by examining the dominant interannual mode of
the modern climate, the El Niño/Southern Oscillation (ENSO). Historians have
argued that ENSO may have driven global patterns of civil conflict in the distant
past, a hypothesis that we extend to the modern era and test quantitatively.
Using data from 1950 to 2004, we show that the probability of new civil conflicts
arising throughout the tropics doubles during El Niño years relative to La Niña
years. This result, which indicates that ENSO may have had a role in 21% of all
civil conflicts since 1950, is the first demonstration that the stability of
modern societies relates strongly to the global climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10311 
PMID: 21866157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):429-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10343.

Role of sulphuric acid, ammonia and galactic cosmic rays in atmospheric aerosol
nucleation.

Kirkby J(1), Curtius J, Almeida J, Dunne E, Duplissy J, Ehrhart S, Franchin A,
Gagné S, Ickes L, Kürten A, Kupc A, Metzger A, Riccobono F, Rondo L,
Schobesberger S, Tsagkogeorgas G, Wimmer D, Amorim A, Bianchi F, Breitenlechner
M, David A, Dommen J, Downard A, Ehn M, Flagan RC, Haider S, Hansel A, Hauser D, 
Jud W, Junninen H, Kreissl F, Kvashin A, Laaksonen A, Lehtipalo K, Lima J,
Lovejoy ER, Makhmutov V, Mathot S, Mikkilä J, Minginette P, Mogo S, Nieminen T,
Onnela A, Pereira P, Petäjä T, Schnitzhofer R, Seinfeld JH, Sipilä M, Stozhkov Y,
Stratmann F, Tomé A, Vanhanen J, Viisanen Y, Vrtala A, Wagner PE, Walther H,
Weingartner E, Wex H, Winkler PM, Carslaw KS, Worsnop DR, Baltensperger U,
Kulmala M.

Author information: 
(1)CERN, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland. jasper.kirkby@cern.ch

Atmospheric aerosols exert an important influence on climate through their
effects on stratiform cloud albedo and lifetime and the invigoration of
convective storms. Model calculations suggest that almost half of the global
cloud condensation nuclei in the atmospheric boundary layer may originate from
the nucleation of aerosols from trace condensable vapours, although the
sensitivity of the number of cloud condensation nuclei to changes of nucleation
rate may be small. Despite extensive research, fundamental questions remain about
the nucleation rate of sulphuric acid particles and the mechanisms responsible,
including the roles of galactic cosmic rays and other chemical species such as
ammonia. Here we present the first results from the CLOUD experiment at CERN. We 
find that atmospherically relevant ammonia mixing ratios of 100 parts per
trillion by volume, or less, increase the nucleation rate of sulphuric acid
particles more than 100-1,000-fold. Time-resolved molecular measurements reveal
that nucleation proceeds by a base-stabilization mechanism involving the stepwise
accretion of ammonia molecules. Ions increase the nucleation rate by an
additional factor of between two and more than ten at ground-level
galactic-cosmic-ray intensities, provided that the nucleation rate lies below the
limiting ion-pair production rate. We find that ion-induced binary nucleation of 
H(2)SO(4)-H(2)O can occur in the mid-troposphere but is negligible in the
boundary layer. However, even with the large enhancements in rate due to ammonia 
and ions, atmospheric concentrations of ammonia and sulphuric acid are
insufficient to account for observed boundary-layer nucleation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10343 
PMID: 21866156 


301. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):425-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10366.

Birth of a relativistic outflow in the unusual γ-ray transient Swift
J164449.3+573451.

Zauderer BA(1), Berger E, Soderberg AM, Loeb A, Narayan R, Frail DA, Petitpas GR,
Brunthaler A, Chornock R, Carpenter JM, Pooley GG, Mooley K, Kulkarni SR,
Margutti R, Fox DB, Nakar E, Patel NA, Volgenau NH, Culverhouse TL, Bietenholz
MF, Rupen MP, Max-Moerbeck W, Readhead AC, Richards J, Shepherd M, Storm S, Hull 
CL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. bzauderer@cfa.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 25;476(7361):405-6.

Active galactic nuclei, which are powered by long-term accretion onto central
supermassive black holes, produce relativistic jets with lifetimes of at least
one million years, and the observation of the birth of such a jet is therefore
unlikely. Transient accretion onto a supermassive black hole, for example through
the tidal disruption of a stray star, thus offers a rare opportunity to study the
birth of a relativistic jet. On 25 March 2011, an unusual transient source (Swift
J164449.3+573451) was found, potentially representing such an accretion event.
Here we report observations spanning centimetre to millimetre wavelengths and
covering the first month of evolution of a luminous radio transient associated
with Swift J164449.3+573451. The radio transient coincides with the nucleus of an
inactive galaxy. We conclude that we are seeing a newly formed relativistic
outflow, launched by transient accretion onto a million-solar-mass black hole. A 
relativistic outflow is not predicted in this situation, but we show that the
tidal disruption of a star naturally explains the observed high-energy properties
and radio luminosity and the inferred rate of such events. The weaker beaming in 
the radio-frequency spectrum relative to γ-rays or X-rays suggests that radio
searches may uncover similar events out to redshifts of z ≈ 6.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10366 
PMID: 21866155 


302. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):421-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10374.

Relativistic jet activity from the tidal disruption of a star by a massive black 
hole.

Burrows DN(1), Kennea JA, Ghisellini G, Mangano V, Zhang B, Page KL, Eracleous M,
Romano P, Sakamoto T, Falcone AD, Osborne JP, Campana S, Beardmore AP, Breeveld
AA, Chester MM, Corbet R, Covino S, Cummings JR, D'Avanzo P, D'Elia V, Esposito
P, Evans PA, Fugazza D, Gelbord JM, Hiroi K, Holland ST, Huang KY, Im M, Israel
G, Jeon Y, Jeon YB, Jun HD, Kawai N, Kim JH, Krimm HA, Marshall FE, P Mészáros,
Negoro H, Omodei N, Park WK, Perkins JS, Sugizaki M, Sung HI, Tagliaferri G,
Troja E, Ueda Y, Urata Y, Usui R, Antonelli LA, Barthelmy SD, Cusumano G, Giommi 
P, Melandri A, Perri M, Racusin JL, Sbarufatti B, Siegel MH, Gehrels N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, The Pennsylvania State University,
525 Davey Laboratory, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
burrows@astro.psu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 25;476(7361):405-6.

Supermassive black holes have powerful gravitational fields with strong gradients
that can destroy stars that get too close, producing a bright flare in
ultraviolet and X-ray spectral regions from stellar debris that forms an
accretion disk around the black hole. The aftermath of this process may have been
seen several times over the past two decades in the form of sparsely sampled,
slowly fading emission from distant galaxies, but the onset of the stellar
disruption event has not hitherto been observed. Here we report observations of a
bright X-ray flare from the extragalactic transient Swift J164449.3+573451. This 
source increased in brightness in the X-ray band by a factor of at least 10,000
since 1990 and by a factor of at least 100 since early 2010. We conclude that we 
have captured the onset of relativistic jet activity from a supermassive black
hole. A companion paper comes to similar conclusions on the basis of radio
observations. This event is probably due to the tidal disruption of a star
falling into a supermassive black hole, but the detailed behaviour differs from
current theoretical models of such events.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10374 
PMID: 21866154 


303. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;476(7361):409-13. doi: 10.1038/nature10346.

Germ-layer and lineage-restricted stem/progenitors regenerate the mouse digit
tip.

Rinkevich Y(1), Lindau P, Ueno H, Longaker MT, Weissman IL.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5323, USA.
ryuval@stanford.edu

The regrowth of amputated limbs and the distal tips of digits represent models of
tissue regeneration in amphibians, fish and mice. For decades it had been assumed
that limb regeneration derived from the blastema, an undifferentiated pluripotent
cell population thought to be derived from mature cells via dedifferentiation.
Here we show that a wide range of tissue stem/progenitor cells contribute towards
the restoration of the mouse distal digit. Genetic fate mapping and clonal
analysis of individual cells revealed that these stem cells are lineage
restricted, mimicking digit growth during development. Transplantation of
cyan-fluorescent-protein-expressing haematopoietic stem cells, and parabiosis
between genetically marked mice, confirmed that the stem/progenitor cells are
tissue resident, including the cells involved in angiogenesis. These results,
combined with those from appendage regeneration in other vertebrate subphyla,
collectively demonstrate that tissue stem cells rather than pluripotent blastema 
cells are an evolutionarily conserved cellular mode for limb regeneration after
amputation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10346 
PMCID: PMC3812235
PMID: 21866153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;477(7362):61-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10362.

The mechanism of membrane-associated steps in tail-anchored protein insertion.

Mariappan M(1), Mateja A, Dobosz M, Bove E, Hegde RS, Keenan RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Program, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Structure. 2011 Oct 12;19(10):1353-5.

Tail-anchored (TA) membrane proteins destined for the endoplasmic reticulum are
chaperoned by cytosolic targeting factors that deliver them to a membrane
receptor for insertion. Although a basic framework for TA protein recognition is 
now emerging, the decisive targeting and membrane insertion steps are not
understood. Here we reconstitute the TA protein insertion cycle with purified
components, present crystal structures of key complexes between these components 
and perform mutational analyses based on the structures. We show that a committed
targeting complex, formed by a TA protein bound to the chaperone ATPase Get3, is 
initially recruited to the membrane through an interaction with Get2. Once the
targeting complex has been recruited, Get1 interacts with Get3 to drive TA
protein release in an ATPase-dependent reaction. After releasing its TA protein
cargo, the now-vacant Get3 recycles back to the cytosol concomitant with ATP
binding. This work provides a detailed structural and mechanistic framework for
the minimal TA protein insertion cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10362 
PMCID: PMC3760497
PMID: 21866104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;477(7364):340-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10348.

Ebola virus entry requires the cholesterol transporter Niemann-Pick C1.

Carette JE(1), Raaben M, Wong AC, Herbert AS, Obernosterer G, Mulherkar N, Kuehne
AI, Kranzusch PJ, Griffin AM, Ruthel G, Dal Cin P, Dye JM, Whelan SP, Chandran K,
Brummelkamp TR.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Oct;10(10):731.

Infections by the Ebola and Marburg filoviruses cause a rapidly fatal
haemorrhagic fever in humans for which no approved antivirals are available.
Filovirus entry is mediated by the viral spike glycoprotein (GP), which attaches 
viral particles to the cell surface, delivers them to endosomes and catalyses
fusion between viral and endosomal membranes. Additional host factors in the
endosomal compartment are probably required for viral membrane fusion; however,
despite considerable efforts, these critical host factors have defied molecular
identification. Here we describe a genome-wide haploid genetic screen in human
cells to identify host factors required for Ebola virus entry. Our screen
uncovered 67 mutations disrupting all six members of the homotypic fusion and
vacuole protein-sorting (HOPS) multisubunit tethering complex, which is involved 
in the fusion of endosomes to lysosomes, and 39 independent mutations that
disrupt the endo/lysosomal cholesterol transporter protein Niemann-Pick C1
(NPC1). Cells defective for the HOPS complex or NPC1 function, including primary 
fibroblasts derived from human Niemann-Pick type C1 disease patients, are
resistant to infection by Ebola virus and Marburg virus, but remain fully
susceptible to a suite of unrelated viruses. We show that membrane fusion
mediated by filovirus glycoproteins and viral escape from the vesicular
compartment require the NPC1 protein, independent of its known function in
cholesterol transport. Our findings uncover unique features of the entry pathway 
used by filoviruses and indicate potential antiviral strategies to combat these
deadly agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10348 
PMCID: PMC3175325
PMID: 21866103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;477(7365):462-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10392.

Evidence for several waves of global transmission in the seventh cholera
pandemic.

Mutreja A(1), Kim DW, Thomson NR, Connor TR, Lee JH, Kariuki S, Croucher NJ, Choi
SY, Harris SR, Lebens M, Niyogi SK, Kim EJ, Ramamurthy T, Chun J, Wood JL,
Clemens JD, Czerkinsky C, Nair GB, Holmgren J, Parkhill J, Dougan G.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.

Vibrio cholerae is a globally important pathogen that is endemic in many areas of
the world and causes 3-5 million reported cases of cholera every year.
Historically, there have been seven acknowledged cholera pandemics; recent
outbreaks in Zimbabwe and Haiti are included in the seventh and ongoing pandemic.
Only isolates in serogroup O1 (consisting of two biotypes known as 'classical'
and 'El Tor') and the derivative O139 can cause epidemic cholera. It is believed 
that the first six cholera pandemics were caused by the classical biotype, but El
Tor has subsequently spread globally and replaced the classical biotype in the
current pandemic. Detailed molecular epidemiological mapping of cholera has been 
compromised by a reliance on sub-genomic regions such as mobile elements to infer
relationships, making El Tor isolates associated with the seventh pandemic seem
superficially diverse. To understand the underlying phylogeny of the lineage
responsible for the current pandemic, we identified high-resolution markers
(single nucleotide polymorphisms; SNPs) in 154 whole-genome sequences of globally
and temporally representative V. cholerae isolates. Using this phylogeny, we show
here that the seventh pandemic has spread from the Bay of Bengal in at least
three independent but overlapping waves with a common ancestor in the 1950s, and 
identify several transcontinental transmission events. Additionally, we show how 
the acquisition of the SXT family of antibiotic resistance elements has shaped
pandemic spread, and show that this family was first acquired at least ten years 
before its discovery in V. cholerae.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10392 
PMCID: PMC3736323
PMID: 21866102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;477(7364):344-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10380.

Small molecule inhibitors reveal Niemann-Pick C1 is essential for Ebola virus
infection.

Côté M(1), Misasi J, Ren T, Bruchez A, Lee K, Filone CM, Hensley L, Li Q, Ory D, 
Chandran K, Cunningham J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Oct;10(10):731.

Ebola virus (EboV) is a highly pathogenic enveloped virus that causes outbreaks
of zoonotic infection in Africa. The clinical symptoms are manifestations of the 
massive production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to infection and in 
many outbreaks, mortality exceeds 75%. The unpredictable onset, ease of
transmission, rapid progression of disease, high mortality and lack of effective 
vaccine or therapy have created a high level of public concern about EboV. Here
we report the identification of a novel benzylpiperazine adamantane
diamide-derived compound that inhibits EboV infection. Using mutant cell lines
and informative derivatives of the lead compound, we show that the target of the 
inhibitor is the endosomal membrane protein Niemann-Pick C1 (NPC1). We find that 
NPC1 is essential for infection, that it binds to the virus glycoprotein (GP),
and that antiviral compounds interfere with GP binding to NPC1. Combined with the
results of previous studies of GP structure and function, our findings support a 
model of EboV infection in which cleavage of the GP1 subunit by endosomal
cathepsin proteases removes heavily glycosylated domains to expose the
amino-terminal domain, which is a ligand for NPC1 and regulates membrane fusion
by the GP2 subunit. Thus, NPC1 is essential for EboV entry and a target for
antiviral therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10380 
PMCID: PMC3230319
PMID: 21866101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 2011 Aug 24;477(7363):188-90. doi: 10.1038/nature10359.

Three classical Cepheid variable stars in the nuclear bulge of the Milky Way.

Matsunaga N(1), Kawadu T, Nishiyama S, Nagayama T, Kobayashi N, Tamura M, Bono G,
Feast MW, Nagata T.

Author information: 
(1)Kiso Observatory, Institute of Astronomy, University of Tokyo, 10762-30
Mitake, Kiso-machi, Kiso-gun, Nagano 397-0101, Japan.
matsunaga@ioa.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The nuclear bulge is a region with a radius of about 200 parsecs around the
centre of the Milky Way. It contains stars with ages ranging from a few million
years to over a billion years, yet its star-formation history and the triggering 
process for star formation remain to be resolved. Recently, episodic star
formation, powered by changes in the gas content, has been suggested. Classical
Cepheid variable stars have pulsation periods that decrease with increasing age, 
so it is possible to probe the star-formation history on the basis of the
distribution of their periods. Here we report the presence of three classical
Cepheids in the nuclear bulge with pulsation periods of approximately 20 days,
within 40 parsecs (projected distance) of the central black hole. No Cepheids
with longer or shorter periods were found. We infer that there was a period about
25 million years ago, and possibly lasting until recently, in which star
formation increased relative to the period of 30-70 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10359 
PMID: 21866100 


309. Nature. 2011 Aug 21;477(7363):211-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10353.

Mutations in UBQLN2 cause dominant X-linked juvenile and adult-onset ALS and
ALS/dementia.

Deng HX(1), Chen W, Hong ST, Boycott KM, Gorrie GH, Siddique N, Yang Y, Fecto F, 
Shi Y, Zhai H, Jiang H, Hirano M, Rampersaud E, Jansen GH, Donkervoort S, Bigio
EH, Brooks BR, Ajroud K, Sufit RL, Haines JL, Mugnaini E, Pericak-Vance MA,
Siddique T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuromuscular Medicine, Davee Department of Neurology and Clinical
Neurosciences, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago,
Illinois 60611, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2012 Feb;81(2):125.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2011 Nov;7(11):599-600.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a paralytic and usually fatal disorder
caused by motor-neuron degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. Most cases of
ALS are sporadic but about 5-10% are familial. Mutations in superoxide dismutase 
1 (SOD1), TAR DNA-binding protein (TARDBP, also known as TDP43) and fused in
sarcoma (FUS, also known as translocated in liposarcoma (TLS)) account for
approximately 30% of classic familial ALS. Mutations in several other genes have 
also been reported as rare causes of ALS or ALS-like syndromes. The causes of the
remaining cases of familial ALS and of the vast majority of sporadic ALS are
unknown. Despite extensive studies of previously identified ALS-causing genes,
the pathogenic mechanism underlying motor-neuron degeneration in ALS remains
largely obscure. Dementia, usually of the frontotemporal lobar type, may occur in
some ALS cases. It is unclear whether ALS and dementia share common aetiology and
pathogenesis in ALS/dementia. Here we show that mutations in UBQLN2, which
encodes the ubiquitin-like protein ubiquilin 2, cause dominantly inherited,
chromosome-X-linked ALS and ALS/dementia. We describe novel ubiquilin 2 pathology
in the spinal cords of ALS cases and in the brains of ALS/dementia cases with or 
without UBQLN2 mutations. Ubiquilin 2 is a member of the ubiquilin family, which 
regulates the degradation of ubiquitinated proteins. Functional analysis showed
that mutations in UBQLN2 lead to an impairment of protein degradation. Therefore,
our findings link abnormalities in ubiquilin 2 to defects in the protein
degradation pathway, abnormal protein aggregation and neurodegeneration,
indicating a common pathogenic mechanism that can be exploited for therapeutic
intervention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10353 
PMCID: PMC3169705
PMID: 21857683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 2011 Aug 21;477(7363):220-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10340.

Continued clearance of apoptotic cells critically depends on the phagocyte Ucp2
protein.

Park D(1), Han CZ, Elliott MR, Kinchen JM, Trampont PC, Das S, Collins S, Lysiak 
JJ, Hoehn KL, Ravichandran KS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell Clearance, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Oct;12(10):627.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Oct;11(10):639.

Rapid and efficient removal of apoptotic cells by phagocytes is important during 
development, tissue homeostasis and in immune responses. Efficient clearance
depends on the capacity of a single phagocyte to ingest multiple apoptotic cells 
successively, and to process the corpse-derived cellular material. However, the
factors that influence continued clearance by phagocytes are not known. Here we
show that the mitochondrial membrane potential of the phagocyte critically
controls engulfment capacity, with lower potential enhancing engulfment and vice 
versa. The mitochondrial membrane protein Ucp2, which acts to lower the
mitochondrial membrane potential, was upregulated in phagocytes engulfing
apoptotic cells. Loss of Ucp2 reduced phagocytic capacity, whereas Ucp2
overexpression enhanced engulfment. Mutational and pharmacological studies
indicated a direct role for Ucp2-mediated mitochondrial function in phagocytosis.
Macrophages from Ucp2-deficient mice were impaired in phagocytosis in vitro, and 
Ucp2-deficient mice showed profound in vivo defects in clearing dying cells in
the thymus and testes. Collectively, these data indicate that mitochondrial
membrane potential and Ucp2 are key molecular determinants of apoptotic cell
clearance. As Ucp2 is linked to metabolic diseases and atherosclerosis, this
newly discovered role for Ucp2 in apoptotic cell clearance has implications for
the complex aetiology and pathogenesis of these diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10340 
PMCID: PMC3513690
PMID: 21857682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Nature. 2011 Aug 21;477(7364):349-53. doi: 10.1038/nature10368.

A stress response pathway regulates DNA damage through β2-adrenoreceptors and
β-arrestin-1.

Hara MR(1), Kovacs JJ, Whalen EJ, Rajagopal S, Strachan RT, Grant W, Towers AJ,
Williams B, Lam CM, Xiao K, Shenoy SK, Gregory SG, Ahn S, Duckett DR, Lefkowitz
RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina
27710, USA.

The human mind and body respond to stress, a state of perceived threat to
homeostasis, by activating the sympathetic nervous system and secreting the
catecholamines adrenaline and noradrenaline in the 'fight-or-flight' response.
The stress response is generally transient because its accompanying effects (for 
example, immunosuppression, growth inhibition and enhanced catabolism) can be
harmful in the long term. When chronic, the stress response can be associated
with disease symptoms such as peptic ulcers or cardiovascular disorders, and
epidemiological studies strongly indicate that chronic stress leads to DNA
damage. This stress-induced DNA damage may promote ageing, tumorigenesis,
neuropsychiatric conditions and miscarriages. However, the mechanisms by which
these DNA-damage events occur in response to stress are unknown. The stress
hormone adrenaline stimulates β(2)-adrenoreceptors that are expressed throughout 
the body, including in germline cells and zygotic embryos. Activated
β(2)-adrenoreceptors promote Gs-protein-dependent activation of protein kinase A 
(PKA), followed by the recruitment of β-arrestins, which desensitize G-protein
signalling and function as signal transducers in their own right. Here we
elucidate a molecular mechanism by which β-adrenergic catecholamines, acting
through both Gs-PKA and β-arrestin-mediated signalling pathways, trigger DNA
damage and suppress p53 levels respectively, thus synergistically leading to the 
accumulation of DNA damage. In mice and in human cell lines, β-arrestin-1
(ARRB1), activated via β(2)-adrenoreceptors, facilitates AKT-mediated activation 
of MDM2 and also promotes MDM2 binding to, and degradation of, p53, by acting as 
a molecular scaffold. Catecholamine-induced DNA damage is abrogated in
Arrb1-knockout (Arrb1(-/-)) mice, which show preserved p53 levels in both the
thymus, an organ that responds prominently to acute or chronic stress, and in the
testes, in which paternal stress may affect the offspring's genome. Our results
highlight the emerging role of ARRB1 as an E3-ligase adaptor in the nucleus, and 
reveal how DNA damage may accumulate in response to chronic stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10368 
PMCID: PMC3628753
PMID: 21857681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Nature. 2011 Aug 21;477(7362):111-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10349.

Solution structure of a minor and transiently formed state of a T4 lysozyme
mutant.

Bouvignies G(1), Vallurupalli P, Hansen DF, Correia BE, Lange O, Bah A, Vernon
RM, Dahlquist FW, Baker D, Kay LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, The University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario 
M5S 1A8, Canada.

Proteins are inherently plastic molecules, whose function often critically
depends on excursions between different molecular conformations (conformers).
However, a rigorous understanding of the relation between a protein's structure, 
dynamics and function remains elusive. This is because many of the conformers on 
its energy landscape are only transiently formed and marginally populated (less
than a few per cent of the total number of molecules), so that they cannot be
individually characterized by most biophysical tools. Here we study a lysozyme
mutant from phage T4 that binds hydrophobic molecules and populates an excited
state transiently (about 1 ms) to about 3% at 25 °C (ref. 5). We show that such
binding occurs only via the ground state, and present the atomic-level model of
the 'invisible', excited state obtained using a combined strategy of
relaxation-dispersion NMR (ref. 6) and CS-Rosetta model building that
rationalizes this observation. The model was tested using structure-based design 
calculations identifying point mutants predicted to stabilize the excited state
relative to the ground state. In this way a pair of mutations were introduced,
inverting the relative populations of the ground and excited states and altering 
function. Our results suggest a mechanism for the evolution of a protein's
function by changing the delicate balance between the states on its energy
landscape. More generally, they show that our approach can generate and validate 
models of excited protein states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10349 
PMCID: PMC3706084
PMID: 21857680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 2011 Aug 18;476(7360):346-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10350.

Functional genomics reveal that the serine synthesis pathway is essential in
breast cancer.

Possemato R(1), Marks KM, Shaul YD, Pacold ME, Kim D, Birsoy K, Sethumadhavan S, 
Woo HK, Jang HG, Jha AK, Chen WW, Barrett FG, Stransky N, Tsun ZY, Cowley GS,
Barretina J, Kalaany NY, Hsu PP, Ottina K, Chan AM, Yuan B, Garraway LA, Root DE,
Mino-Kenudson M, Brachtel EF, Driggers EM, Sabatini DM.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Sep;11(9):621.
    Cell Metab. 2011 Sep 7;14(3):285-6.

Cancer cells adapt their metabolic processes to drive macromolecular biosynthesis
for rapid cell growth and proliferation. RNA interference (RNAi)-based
loss-of-function screening has proven powerful for the identification of new and 
interesting cancer targets, and recent studies have used this technology in vivo 
to identify novel tumour suppressor genes. Here we developed a method for
identifying novel cancer targets via negative-selection RNAi screening using a
human breast cancer xenograft model at an orthotopic site in the mouse. Using
this method, we screened a set of metabolic genes associated with aggressive
breast cancer and stemness to identify those required for in vivo tumorigenesis. 
Among the genes identified, phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH) is in a
genomic region of recurrent copy number gain in breast cancer and PHGDH protein
levels are elevated in 70% of oestrogen receptor (ER)-negative breast cancers.
PHGDH catalyses the first step in the serine biosynthesis pathway, and breast
cancer cells with high PHGDH expression have increased serine synthesis flux.
Suppression of PHGDH in cell lines with elevated PHGDH expression, but not in
those without, causes a strong decrease in cell proliferation and a reduction in 
serine synthesis. We find that PHGDH suppression does not affect intracellular
serine levels, but causes a drop in the levels of α-ketoglutarate, another output
of the pathway and a tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediate. In cells with
high PHGDH expression, the serine synthesis pathway contributes approximately 50%
of the total anaplerotic flux of glutamine into the TCA cycle. These results
reveal that certain breast cancers are dependent upon increased serine pathway
flux caused by PHGDH overexpression and demonstrate the utility of in vivo
negative-selection RNAi screens for finding potential anticancer targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10350 
PMCID: PMC3353325
PMID: 21760589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;476(7360):324-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10276.

Fossil jawless fish from China foreshadows early jawed vertebrate anatomy.

Gai Z(1), Donoghue PC, Zhu M, Janvier P, Stampanoni M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK.

Most living vertebrates are jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes), and the living
jawless vertebrates (cyclostomes), hagfishes and lampreys, provide scarce
information about the profound reorganization of the vertebrate skull during the 
evolutionary origin of jaws. The extinct bony jawless vertebrates, or
'ostracoderms', are regarded as precursors of jawed vertebrates and provide
insight into this formative episode in vertebrate evolution. Here, using
synchrotron radiation X-ray tomography, we describe the cranial anatomy of
galeaspids, a 435-370-million-year-old 'ostracoderm' group from China and
Vietnam. The paired nasal sacs of galeaspids are located anterolaterally in the
braincase, and the hypophyseal duct opens anteriorly towards the oral cavity.
These three structures (the paired nasal sacs and the hypophyseal duct) were thus
already independent of each other, like in gnathostomes and unlike in cyclostomes
and osteostracans (another 'ostracoderm' group), and therefore have the condition
that current developmental models regard as prerequisites for the development of 
jaws. This indicates that the reorganization of vertebrate cranial anatomy was
not driven deterministically by the evolutionary origin of jaws but occurred
stepwise, ultimately allowing the rostral growth of ectomesenchyme that now
characterizes gnathostome head development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10276 
PMID: 21850106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;476(7360):308-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10344.

Suppression of the coffee-ring effect by shape-dependent capillary interactions.

Yunker PJ(1), Still T, Lohr MA, Yodh AG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA. pyunker@sas.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 18;476(7360):286-7.

When a drop of liquid dries on a solid surface, its suspended particulate matter 
is deposited in ring-like fashion. This phenomenon, known as the coffee-ring
effect, is familiar to anyone who has observed a drop of coffee dry. During the
drying process, drop edges become pinned to the substrate, and capillary flow
outward from the centre of the drop brings suspended particles to the edge as
evaporation proceeds. After evaporation, suspended particles are left highly
concentrated along the original drop edge. The coffee-ring effect is manifested
in systems with diverse constituents, ranging from large colloids to
nanoparticles and individual molecules. In fact--despite the many practical
applications for uniform coatings in printing, biology and complex assembly-the
ubiquitous nature of the effect has made it difficult to avoid. Here we show
experimentally that the shape of the suspended particles is important and can be 
used to eliminate the coffee-ring effect: ellipsoidal particles are deposited
uniformly during evaporation. The anisotropic shape of the particles
significantly deforms interfaces, producing strong interparticle capillary
interactions. Thus, after the ellipsoids are carried to the air-water interface
by the same outward flow that causes the coffee-ring effect for spheres, strong
long-ranged interparticle attractions between ellipsoids lead to the formation of
loosely packed or arrested structures on the air-water interface. These
structures prevent the suspended particles from reaching the drop edge and ensure
uniform deposition. Interestingly, under appropriate conditions, suspensions of
spheres mixed with a small number of ellipsoids also produce uniform deposition. 
Thus, particle shape provides a convenient parameter to control the deposition of
particles, without modification of particle or solvent chemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10344 
PMID: 21850105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;476(7360):304-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10320.

Central powering of the largest Lyman-α nebula is revealed by polarized
radiation.

Hayes M(1), Scarlata C, Siana B.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS-OMP, IRAP, Toulouse, France.
matthew.hayes@ast.obs-mip.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 18;476(7360):288-9.

High-redshift Lyman-α (Lyα) blobs are extended, luminous but rare structures that
seem to be associated with the highest peaks in the matter density of the
Universe. Their energy output and morphology are similar to those of powerful
radio galaxies, but the source of the luminosity is unclear. Some blobs are
associated with ultraviolet or infrared bright galaxies, suggesting an extreme
starburst event or accretion onto a central black hole. Another possibility is
gas that is shock-excited by supernovae. But not all blobs are associated with
galaxies, and these ones may instead be heated by gas falling into a dark-matter 
halo. The polarization of the Lyα emission can in principle distinguish between
these options, but a previous attempt to detect this signature returned a null
detection. Here we report observations of polarized Lyα from the blob LAB1 (ref. 
2). Although the central region shows no measurable polarization, the polarized
fraction (P) increases to ∼20 per cent at a radius of 45 kiloparsecs, forming an 
almost complete polarized ring. The detection of polarized radiation is
inconsistent with the in situ production of Lyα photons, and we conclude that
they must have been produced in the galaxies hosted within the nebula, and
re-scattered by neutral hydrogen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10320 
PMID: 21850104 


317. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;477(7363):225-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10363.

Haem oxygenase is synthetically lethal with the tumour suppressor fumarate
hydratase.

Frezza C(1), Zheng L, Folger O, Rajagopalan KN, MacKenzie ED, Jerby L, Micaroni
M, Chaneton B, Adam J, Hedley A, Kalna G, Tomlinson IP, Pollard PJ, Watson DG,
Deberardinis RJ, Shlomi T, Ruppin E, Gottlieb E.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Switchback Road,
Glasgow G61 1BD, UK.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Apr;187(4):1506.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Oct;11(10):692.

Fumarate hydratase (FH) is an enzyme of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle) 
that catalyses the hydration of fumarate into malate. Germline mutations of FH
are responsible for hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal-cell cancer (HLRCC). It
has previously been demonstrated that the absence of FH leads to the accumulation
of fumarate, which activates hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) at normal oxygen
tensions. However, so far no mechanism that explains the ability of cells to
survive without a functional TCA cycle has been provided. Here we use newly
characterized genetically modified kidney mouse cells in which Fh1 has been
deleted, and apply a newly developed computer model of the metabolism of these
cells to predict and experimentally validate a linear metabolic pathway beginning
with glutamine uptake and ending with bilirubin excretion from Fh1-deficient
cells. This pathway, which involves the biosynthesis and degradation of haem,
enables Fh1-deficient cells to use the accumulated TCA cycle metabolites and
permits partial mitochondrial NADH production. We predicted and confirmed that
targeting this pathway would render Fh1-deficient cells non-viable, while sparing
wild-type Fh1-containing cells. This work goes beyond identifying a metabolic
pathway that is induced in Fh1-deficient cells to demonstrate that inhibition of 
haem oxygenation is synthetically lethal when combined with Fh1 deficiency,
providing a new potential target for treating HLRCC patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10363 
PMID: 21849978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;477(7364):321-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10378.

Parallel evolution of domesticated Caenorhabditis species targets pheromone
receptor genes.

McGrath PT(1), Xu Y, Ailion M, Garrison JL, Butcher RA, Bargmann CI.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Laboratory of Neural Circuits and Behavior,
The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Evolution can follow predictable genetic trajectories, indicating that discrete
environmental shifts can select for reproducible genetic changes. Conspecific
individuals are an important feature of an animal's environment, and a potential 
source of selective pressures. Here we show that adaptation of two Caenorhabditis
species to growth at high density, a feature common to domestic environments,
occurs by reproducible genetic changes to pheromone receptor genes. Chemical
communication through pheromones that accumulate during high-density growth
causes young nematode larvae to enter the long-lived but non-reproductive dauer
stage. Two strains of Caenorhabditis elegans grown at high density have
independently acquired multigenic resistance to pheromone-induced dauer
formation. In each strain, resistance to the pheromone ascaroside C3 results from
a deletion that disrupts the adjacent chemoreceptor genes serpentine receptor
class g (srg)-36 and -37. Through misexpression experiments, we show that these
genes encode redundant G-protein-coupled receptors for ascaroside C3. Multigenic 
resistance to dauer formation has also arisen in high-density cultures of a
different nematode species, Caenorhabditis briggsae, resulting in part from
deletion of an srg gene paralogous to srg-36 and srg-37. These results
demonstrate rapid remodelling of the chemoreceptor repertoire as an adaptation to
specific environments, and indicate that parallel changes to a common genetic
substrate can affect life-history traits across species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10378 
PMCID: PMC3257054
PMID: 21849976  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;477(7362):95-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10347.

Cell-to-cell spread of HIV permits ongoing replication despite antiretroviral
therapy.

Sigal A(1), Kim JT, Balazs AB, Dekel E, Mayo A, Milo R, Baltimore D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 
91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 1;477(7362):36-7.

Latency and ongoing replication have both been proposed to explain the
drug-insensitive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reservoir maintained during
antiretroviral therapy. Here we explore a novel mechanism for ongoing HIV
replication in the face of antiretroviral drugs. We propose a model whereby
multiple infections per cell lead to reduced sensitivity to drugs without
requiring drug-resistant mutations, and experimentally validate the model using
multiple infections per cell by cell-free HIV in the presence of the drug
tenofovir. We then examine the drug sensitivity of cell-to-cell spread of HIV, a 
mode of HIV transmission that can lead to multiple infection events per target
cell. Infections originating from cell-free virus decrease strongly in the
presence of antiretrovirals tenofovir and efavirenz whereas infections involving 
cell-to-cell spread are markedly less sensitive to the drugs. The reduction in
sensitivity is sufficient to keep multiple rounds of infection from terminating
in the presence of drugs. We examine replication from cell-to-cell spread in the 
presence of clinical drug concentrations using a stochastic infection model and
find that replication is intermittent, without substantial accumulation of
mutations. If cell-to-cell spread has the same properties in vivo, it may have
adverse consequences for the immune system, lead to therapy failure in
individuals with risk factors, and potentially contribute to viral persistence
and hence be a barrier to curing HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10347 
PMID: 21849975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 2011 Aug 17;477(7362):70-2. doi: 10.1038/nature10328.

Chronological evidence that the Moon is either young or did not have a global
magma ocean.

Borg LE(1), Connelly JN, Boyet M, Carlson RW.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 7000 East 
Avenue L-231, Livermore, California 94550, USA. borg5@llnl.gov

Chemical evolution of planetary bodies, ranging from asteroids to the large rocky
planets, is thought to begin with differentiation through solidification of magma
oceans many hundreds of kilometres in depth. The Earth's Moon is the archetypical
example of this type of differentiation. Evidence for a lunar magma ocean is
derived largely from the widespread distribution, compositional and mineralogical
characteristics, and ancient ages inferred for the ferroan anorthosite (FAN)
suite of lunar crustal rocks. The FANs are considered to be primary lunar
flotation-cumulate crust that crystallized in the latter stages of magma ocean
solidification. According to this theory, FANs represent the oldest lunar crustal
rock type. Attempts to date this rock suite have yielded ambiguous results,
however, because individual isochron measurements are typically incompatible with
the geochemical make-up of the samples, and have not been confirmed by additional
isotopic systems. By making improvements to the standard isotopic techniques, we 
report here the age of crystallization of FAN 60025 using the (207)Pb-(206)Pb,
(147)Sm-(143)Nd and (146)Sm-(142)Nd isotopic systems to be 4,360 ± 3 million
years. This extraordinarily young age requires that either the Moon solidified
significantly later than most previous estimates or the long-held assumption that
FANs are flotation cumulates of a primordial magma ocean is incorrect. If the
latter is correct, then much of the lunar crust may have been produced by
non-magma-ocean processes, such as serial magmatism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10328 
PMID: 21849974 


321. Nature. 2011 Aug 14;477(7363):234-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10332.

N2O binding at a [4Cu:2S] copper-sulphur cluster in nitrous oxide reductase.

Pomowski A(1), Zumft WG, Kroneck PM, Einsle O.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Biochemie, Institut für organische Chemie und Biochemie,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Albertstr. 21, 79104 Freiburg, Germany.

Nitrous oxide (N(2)O) is generated by natural and anthropogenic processes and has
a critical role in environmental chemistry. It has an ozone-depleting potential
similar to that of hydrochlorofluorocarbons as well as a global warming potential
exceeding that of CO(2) 300-fold. In bacterial denitrification, N(2)O is reduced 
to N(2) by the copper-dependent nitrous oxide reductase (N(2)OR). This enzyme
carries the mixed-valent Cu(A) centre and the unique, tetranuclear Cu(Z) site.
Previous structural data were obtained with enzyme isolated in the presence of
air that is catalytically inactive without prior reduction. Its Cu(Z) site was
described as a [4Cu:S] centre, and the substrate-binding mode and reduction
mechanism remained elusive. Here we report the structure of purple N(2)OR from
Pseudomonas stutzeri, handled under the exclusion of dioxygen, and locate the
substrate in N(2)O-pressurized crystals. The active Cu(Z) cluster contains two
sulphur atoms, yielding a [4Cu:2S] stoichiometry; and N(2)O bound side-on at
Cu(Z), in close proximity to Cu(A). With the substrate located between the two
clusters, electrons are transferred directly from Cu(A) to N(2)O, which is
activated by side-on binding in a specific binding pocket on the face of the
[4Cu:2S] centre. These results reconcile a multitude of available biochemical
data on N(2)OR that could not be explained by earlier structures, and outline a
mechanistic pathway in which both metal centres and the intervening protein act
in concert to achieve catalysis. This structure represents the first direct
observation, to our knowledge, of N(2)O bound to its reductase, and sheds light
on the functionality of metalloenzymes that activate inert small-molecule
substrates. The principle of using distinct clusters for substrate activation and
for reduction may be relevant for similar systems, in particular nitrogen-fixing 
nitrogenase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10332 
PMID: 21841804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 2011 Aug 14;477(7363):203-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10341.

Chromosomal rearrangements maintain a polymorphic supergene controlling butterfly
mimicry.

Joron M(1), Frezal L, Jones RT, Chamberlain NL, Lee SF, Haag CR, Whibley A,
Becuwe M, Baxter SW, Ferguson L, Wilkinson PA, Salazar C, Davidson C, Clark R,
Quail MA, Beasley H, Glithero R, Lloyd C, Sims S, Jones MC, Rogers J, Jiggins CD,
ffrench-Constant RH.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS UMR 7205, Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, CP50, 45 Rue Buffon,
75005 Paris, France. joron@mnhn.fr

Supergenes are tight clusters of loci that facilitate the co-segregation of
adaptive variation, providing integrated control of complex adaptive phenotypes. 
Polymorphic supergenes, in which specific combinations of traits are maintained
within a single population, were first described for 'pin' and 'thrum' floral
types in Primula and Fagopyrum, but classic examples are also found in insect
mimicry and snail morphology. Understanding the evolutionary mechanisms that
generate these co-adapted gene sets, as well as the mode of limiting the
production of unfit recombinant forms, remains a substantial challenge. Here we
show that individual wing-pattern morphs in the polymorphic mimetic butterfly
Heliconius numata are associated with different genomic rearrangements at the
supergene locus P. These rearrangements tighten the genetic linkage between at
least two colour-pattern loci that are known to recombine in closely related
species, with complete suppression of recombination being observed in
experimental crosses across a 400-kilobase interval containing at least 18 genes.
In natural populations, notable patterns of linkage disequilibrium (LD) are
observed across the entire P region. The resulting divergent haplotype clades and
inversion breakpoints are found in complete association with wing-pattern morphs.
Our results indicate that allelic combinations at known wing-patterning loci have
become locked together in a polymorphic rearrangement at the P locus, forming a
supergene that acts as a simple switch between complex adaptive phenotypes found 
in sympatry. These findings highlight how genomic rearrangements can have a
central role in the coexistence of adaptive phenotypes involving several genes
acting in concert, by locally limiting recombination and gene flow.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10341 
PMCID: PMC3717454
PMID: 21841803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 2011 Aug 14;477(7363):216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10339.

Different patterns of peripheral migration by memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.

Gebhardt T(1), Whitney PG, Zaid A, Mackay LK, Brooks AG, Heath WR, Carbone FR,
Mueller SN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The University of Melbourne,
Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia. gebhardt@unimelb.edu.au

Infections localized to peripheral tissues such as the skin result in the priming
of T-cell responses that act to control pathogens. Activated T cells undergo
migrational imprinting within the draining lymph nodes, resulting in memory T
cells that provide local and systemic protection. Combinations of migrating and
resident memory T cells have been implicated in long-term peripheral immunity,
especially at the surfaces that form pathogen entry points into the body.
However, T-cell immunity consists of separate CD4(+) helper T cells and CD8(+)
killer T cells, with distinct effector and memory programming requirements.
Whether these subsets also differ in their ability to form a migrating pool
involved in peripheral immunosurveillance or a separate resident population
responsible for local infection control has not been explored. Here, using mice, 
we show key differences in the migration and tissue localization of memory CD4(+)
and CD8(+) T cells following infection of the skin by herpes simplex virus. On
resolution of infection, the skin contained two distinct virus-specific memory
subsets; a slow-moving population of sequestered CD8(+) T cells that were
resident in the epidermis and confined largely to the original site of infection,
and a dynamic population of CD4(+) T cells that trafficked rapidly through the
dermis as part of a wider recirculation pattern. Unique homing-molecule
expression by recirculating CD4(+) T effector-memory cells mirrored their
preferential skin-migratory capacity. Overall, these results identify a
complexity in memory T-cell migration, illuminating previously unappreciated
differences between the CD4(+) and CD8(+) subsets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10339 
PMID: 21841802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2011 Aug 14;477(7363):229-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10329.

TSLP promotes interleukin-3-independent basophil haematopoiesis and type 2
inflammation.

Siracusa MC(1), Saenz SA, Hill DA, Kim BS, Headley MB, Doering TA, Wherry EJ,
Jessup HK, Siegel LA, Kambayashi T, Dudek EC, Kubo M, Cianferoni A, Spergel JM,
Ziegler SF, Comeau MR, Artis D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Immunology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

CD4(+) T-helper type 2 (T(H)2) cells, characterized by their expression of
interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, IL-9 and IL-13, are required for immunity to helminth
parasites and promote the pathological inflammation associated with asthma and
allergic diseases. Polymorphisms in the gene encoding the cytokine thymic stromal
lymphopoietin (TSLP) are associated with the development of multiple allergic
disorders in humans, indicating that TSLP is a critical regulator of T(H)2
cytokine-associated inflammatory diseases. In support of genetic analyses,
exaggerated TSLP production is associated with asthma, atopic dermatitis and food
allergies in patients, and studies in murine systems demonstrated that TSLP
promotes T(H)2 cytokine-mediated immunity and inflammation. However, the
mechanisms through which TSLP induces T(H)2 cytokine responses remain poorly
defined. Here we demonstrate that TSLP promotes systemic basophilia, that
disruption of TSLP-TSLPR interactions results in defective basophil responses,
and that TSLPR-sufficient basophils can restore T(H)2-cell-dependent immunity in 
vivo. TSLP acted directly on bone-marrow-resident progenitors to promote basophil
responses selectively. Critically, TSLP could elicit basophil responses in both
IL-3-IL-3R-sufficient and -deficient environments, and genome-wide
transcriptional profiling and functional analyses identified heterogeneity
between TSLP-elicited versus IL-3-elicited basophils. Furthermore, activated
human basophils expressed TSLPR, and basophils isolated from eosinophilic
oesophagitis patients were distinct from classical basophils. Collectively, these
studies identify previously unrecognized heterogeneity within the basophil cell
lineage and indicate that expression of TSLP may influence susceptibility to
multiple allergic diseases by regulating basophil haematopoiesis and eliciting a 
population of functionally distinct basophils that promote T(H)2
cytokine-mediated inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10329 
PMCID: PMC3263308
PMID: 21841801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 2011 Aug 14;477(7362):107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10324.

α-Synuclein occurs physiologically as a helically folded tetramer that resists
aggregation.

Bartels T(1), Choi JG, Selkoe DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2011 Nov;26(13):2324.
    Nature. 2013 Jun 13;498(7453):E4-6; discussion E6-7.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Oct;12(10):550.

Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder. Growing
evidence indicates a causative role of misfolded forms of the protein α-synuclein
in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Intraneuronal aggregates of
α-synuclein occur in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, the cytopathological
hallmarks of Parkinson's disease and related disorders called synucleinopathies. 
α-Synuclein has long been defined as a 'natively unfolded' monomer of about
14 kDa (ref. 6) that is believed to acquire α-helical secondary structure only
upon binding to lipid vesicles. This concept derives from the widespread use of
recombinant bacterial expression protocols for in vitro studies, and of
overexpression, sample heating and/or denaturing gels for cell culture and tissue
studies. In contrast, we report that endogenous α-synuclein isolated and analysed
under non-denaturing conditions from neuronal and non-neuronal cell lines, brain 
tissue and living human cells occurs in large part as a folded tetramer of about 
58 kDa. Several methods, including analytical ultracentrifugation, scanning
transmission electron microscopy and in vitro cell crosslinking confirmed the
occurrence of the tetramer. Native, cell-derived α-synuclein showed α-helical
structure without lipid addition and had much greater lipid-binding capacity than
the recombinant α-synuclein studied heretofore. Whereas recombinantly expressed
monomers readily aggregated into amyloid-like fibrils in vitro, native human
tetramers underwent little or no amyloid-like aggregation. On the basis of these 
findings, we propose that destabilization of the helically folded tetramer
precedes α-synuclein misfolding and aggregation in Parkinson's disease and other 
human synucleinopathies, and that small molecules that stabilize the
physiological tetramer could reduce α-synuclein pathogenicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10324 
PMCID: PMC3166366
PMID: 21841800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):189-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10309.

Perpendicular switching of a single ferromagnetic layer induced by in-plane
current injection.

Miron IM(1), Garello K, Gaudin G, Zermatten PJ, Costache MV, Auffret S, Bandiera 
S, Rodmacq B, Schuhl A, Gambardella P.

Author information: 
(1)Catalan Institute of Nanotechnology (ICN-CIN2), E-08193 Barcelona, Spain.
mihai.miron.icn@uab.es

Modern computing technology is based on writing, storing and retrieving
information encoded as magnetic bits. Although the giant magnetoresistance effect
has improved the electrical read out of memory elements, magnetic writing remains
the object of major research efforts. Despite several reports of methods to
reverse the polarity of nanosized magnets by means of local electric fields and
currents, the simple reversal of a high-coercivity, single-layer ferromagnet
remains a challenge. Materials with large coercivity and perpendicular magnetic
anisotropy represent the mainstay of data storage media, owing to their ability
to retain a stable magnetization state over long periods of time and their
amenability to miniaturization. However, the same anisotropy properties that make
a material attractive for storage also make it hard to write to. Here we
demonstrate switching of a perpendicularly magnetized cobalt dot driven by
in-plane current injection at room temperature. Our device is composed of a thin 
cobalt layer with strong perpendicular anisotropy and Rashba interaction induced 
by asymmetric platinum and AlOx interface layers. The effective switching field
is orthogonal to the direction of the magnetization and to the Rashba field. The 
symmetry of the switching field is consistent with the spin accumulation induced 
by the Rashba interaction and the spin-dependent mobility observed in
non-magnetic semiconductors, as well as with the torque induced by the spin Hall 
effect in the platinum layer. Our measurements indicate that the switching
efficiency increases with the magnetic anisotropy of the cobalt layer and the
oxidation of the aluminium layer, which is uppermost, suggesting that the Rashba 
interaction has a key role in the reversal mechanism. To prove the potential of
in-plane current switching for spintronic applications, we construct a
reprogrammable magnetic switch that can be integrated into non-volatile memory
and logic architectures. This device is simple, scalable and compatible with
present-day magnetic recording technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10309 
PMID: 21804568 


327. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):214-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10251.

Genetic risk and a primary role for cell-mediated immune mechanisms in multiple
sclerosis.

International Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium; Wellcome Trust Case Control
Consortium 2, Sawcer S, Hellenthal G, Pirinen M, Spencer CC, Patsopoulos NA,
Moutsianas L, Dilthey A, Su Z, Freeman C, Hunt SE, Edkins S, Gray E, Booth DR,
Potter SC, Goris A, Band G, Oturai AB, Strange A, Saarela J, Bellenguez C,
Fontaine B, Gillman M, Hemmer B, Gwilliam R, Zipp F, Jayakumar A, Martin R,
Leslie S, Hawkins S, Giannoulatou E, D'alfonso S, Blackburn H, Martinelli
Boneschi F, Liddle J, Harbo HF, Perez ML, Spurkland A, Waller MJ, Mycko MP,
Ricketts M, Comabella M, Hammond N, Kockum I, McCann OT, Ban M, Whittaker P,
Kemppinen A, Weston P, Hawkins C, Widaa S, Zajicek J, Dronov S, Robertson N,
Bumpstead SJ, Barcellos LF, Ravindrarajah R, Abraham R, Alfredsson L, Ardlie K,
Aubin C, Baker A, Baker K, Baranzini SE, Bergamaschi L, Bergamaschi R, Bernstein 
A, Berthele A, Boggild M, Bradfield JP, Brassat D, Broadley SA, Buck D,
Butzkueven H, Capra R, Carroll WM, Cavalla P, Celius EG, Cepok S, Chiavacci R,
Clerget-Darpoux F, Clysters K, Comi G, Cossburn M, Cournu-Rebeix I, Cox MB, Cozen
W, Cree BA, Cross AH, Cusi D, Daly MJ, Davis E, de Bakker PI, Debouverie M,
D'hooghe MB, Dixon K, Dobosi R, Dubois B, Ellinghaus D, Elovaara I, Esposito F,
Fontenille C, Foote S, Franke A, Galimberti D, Ghezzi A, Glessner J, Gomez R,
Gout O, Graham C, Grant SF, Guerini FR, Hakonarson H, Hall P, Hamsten A, Hartung 
HP, Heard RN, Heath S, Hobart J, Hoshi M, Infante-Duarte C, Ingram G, Ingram W,
Islam T, Jagodic M, Kabesch M, Kermode AG, Kilpatrick TJ, Kim C, Klopp N,
Koivisto K, Larsson M, Lathrop M, Lechner-Scott JS, Leone MA, Leppä V, Liljedahl 
U, Bomfim IL, Lincoln RR, Link J, Liu J, Lorentzen AR, Lupoli S, Macciardi F,
Mack T, Marriott M, Martinelli V, Mason D, McCauley JL, Mentch F, Mero IL,
Mihalova T, Montalban X, Mottershead J, Myhr KM, Naldi P, Ollier W, Page A,
Palotie A, Pelletier J, Piccio L, Pickersgill T, Piehl F, Pobywajlo S, Quach HL, 
Ramsay PP, Reunanen M, Reynolds R, Rioux JD, Rodegher M, Roesner S, Rubio JP,
Rückert IM, Salvetti M, Salvi E, Santaniello A, Schaefer CA, Schreiber S, Schulze
C, Scott RJ, Sellebjerg F, Selmaj KW, Sexton D, Shen L, Simms-Acuna B, Skidmore
S, Sleiman PM, Smestad C, Sørensen PS, Søndergaard HB, Stankovich J, Strange RC, 
Sulonen AM, Sundqvist E, Syvänen AC, Taddeo F, Taylor B, Blackwell JM, Tienari P,
Bramon E, Tourbah A, Brown MA, Tronczynska E, Casas JP, Tubridy N, Corvin A,
Vickery J, Jankowski J, Villoslada P, Markus HS, Wang K, Mathew CG, Wason J,
Palmer CN, Wichmann HE, Plomin R, Willoughby E, Rautanen A, Winkelmann J, Wittig 
M, Trembath RC, Yaouanq J, Viswanathan AC, Zhang H, Wood NW, Zuvich R, Deloukas
P, Langford C, Duncanson A, Oksenberg JR, Pericak-Vance MA, Haines JL, Olsson T, 
Hillert J, Ivinson AJ, De Jager PL, Peltonen L, Stewart GJ, Hafler DA, Hauser SL,
McVean G, Donnelly P, Compston A.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2011 Oct;7(10):535.

Multiple sclerosis is a common disease of the central nervous system in which the
interplay between inflammatory and neurodegenerative processes typically results 
in intermittent neurological disturbance followed by progressive accumulation of 
disability. Epidemiological studies have shown that genetic factors are primarily
responsible for the substantially increased frequency of the disease seen in the 
relatives of affected individuals, and systematic attempts to identify linkage in
multiplex families have confirmed that variation within the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) exerts the greatest individual effect on risk.
Modestly powered genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have enabled more than 20
additional risk loci to be identified and have shown that multiple variants
exerting modest individual effects have a key role in disease susceptibility.
Most of the genetic architecture underlying susceptibility to the disease remains
to be defined and is anticipated to require the analysis of sample sizes that are
beyond the numbers currently available to individual research groups. In a
collaborative GWAS involving 9,772 cases of European descent collected by 23
research groups working in 15 different countries, we have replicated almost all 
of the previously suggested associations and identified at least a further 29
novel susceptibility loci. Within the MHC we have refined the identity of the
HLA-DRB1 risk alleles and confirmed that variation in the HLA-A gene underlies
the independent protective effect attributable to the class I region.
Immunologically relevant genes are significantly overrepresented among those
mapping close to the identified loci and particularly implicate T-helper-cell
differentiation in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10251 
PMCID: PMC3182531
PMID: 21833088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):198-201. doi: 10.1038/nature10352.

Recent decreases in fossil-fuel emissions of ethane and methane derived from firn
air.

Aydin M(1), Verhulst KR, Saltzman ES, Battle MO, Montzka SA, Blake DR, Tang Q,
Prather MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth System Science, University of California, Irvine,
California 92697, USA. maydin@uci.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):157-8.

Methane and ethane are the most abundant hydrocarbons in the atmosphere and they 
affect both atmospheric chemistry and climate. Both gases are emitted from fossil
fuels and biomass burning, whereas methane (CH(4)) alone has large sources from
wetlands, agriculture, landfills and waste water. Here we use measurements in
firn (perennial snowpack) air from Greenland and Antarctica to reconstruct the
atmospheric variability of ethane (C(2)H(6)) during the twentieth century. Ethane
levels rose from early in the century until the 1980s, when the trend reversed,
with a period of decline over the next 20 years. We find that this variability
was primarily driven by changes in ethane emissions from fossil fuels; these
emissions peaked in the 1960s and 1970s at 14-16 teragrams per year (1 Tg =
10(12) g) and dropped to 8-10 Tg  yr(-1) by the turn of the century. The
reduction in fossil-fuel sources is probably related to changes in light
hydrocarbon emissions associated with petroleum production and use. The
ethane-based fossil-fuel emission history is strikingly different from bottom-up 
estimates of methane emissions from fossil-fuel use, and implies that the
fossil-fuel source of methane started to decline in the 1980s and probably caused
the late twentieth century slow-down in the growth rate of atmospheric methane.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10352 
PMID: 21833087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10259.

Reduced methane growth rate explained by decreased Northern Hemisphere microbial 
sources.

Kai FM(1), Tyler SC, Randerson JT, Blake DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth System Science, University of California, Irvine,
California 92697, USA. fmkai@smart.mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):157-8.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):E3-4; discussion E4.

Atmospheric methane (CH(4)) increased through much of the twentieth century, but 
this trend gradually weakened until a stable state was temporarily reached around
the turn of the millennium, after which levels increased once more. The reasons
for the slowdown are incompletely understood, with past work identifying changes 
in fossil fuel, wetland and agricultural sources and hydroxyl (OH) sinks as
important causal factors. Here we show that the late-twentieth-century changes in
the CH(4) growth rates are best explained by reduced microbial sources in the
Northern Hemisphere. Our results, based on synchronous time series of atmospheric
CH(4) mixing and (13)C/(12)C ratios and a two-box atmospheric model, indicate
that the evolution of the mixing ratio requires no significant change in Southern
Hemisphere sources between 1984 and 2005. Observed changes in the
interhemispheric difference of (13)C effectively exclude reduced fossil fuel
emissions as the primary cause of the slowdown. The (13)C observations are
consistent with long-term reductions in agricultural emissions or another
microbial source within the Northern Hemisphere. Approximately half (51 ± 18%) of
the decrease in Northern Hemisphere CH(4) emissions can be explained by reduced
emissions from rice agriculture in Asia over the past three decades associated
with increases in fertilizer application and reductions in water use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10259 
PMID: 21833086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):185-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10319.

Quantum gates and memory using microwave-dressed states.

Timoney N(1), Baumgart I, Johanning M, Varón AF, Plenio MB, Retzker A, Wunderlich
Ch.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Science and Technology, Department of Physics, University of
Siegen, 57068 Siegen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):155-6.

Trapped atomic ions have been used successfully to demonstrate basic elements of 
universal quantum information processing. Nevertheless, scaling up such methods
to achieve large-scale, universal quantum information processing (or more
specialized quantum simulations) remains challenging. The use of easily
controllable and stable microwave sources, rather than complex laser systems,
could remove obstacles to scalability. However, the microwave approach has
drawbacks: it involves the use of magnetic-field-sensitive states, which shorten 
coherence times considerably, and requires large, stable magnetic field
gradients. Here we show how to overcome both problems by using stationary atomic 
quantum states as qubits that are induced by microwave fields (that is, by
dressing magnetic-field-sensitive states with microwave fields). This permits
fast quantum logic, even in the presence of a small (effective) Lamb-Dicke
parameter (and, therefore, moderate magnetic field gradients). We experimentally 
demonstrate the basic building blocks of this scheme, showing that the dressed
states are long lived and that coherence times are increased by more than two
orders of magnitude relative to those of bare magnetic-field-sensitive states.
This improves the prospects of microwave-driven ion trap quantum information
processing, and offers a route to extending coherence times in all systems that
suffer from magnetic noise, such as neutral atoms, nitrogen-vacancy centres,
quantum dots or circuit quantum electrodynamic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10319 
PMID: 21833085 


331. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):181-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10290.

Microwave quantum logic gates for trapped ions.

Ospelkaus C(1), Warring U, Colombe Y, Brown KR, Amini JM, Leibfried D, Wineland
DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Time and Frequency Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
325 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.
christian.ospelkaus@iqo.uni-hannover.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):155-6.

Control over physical systems at the quantum level is important in fields as
diverse as metrology, information processing, simulation and chemistry. For
trapped atomic ions, the quantized motional and internal degrees of freedom can
be coherently manipulated with laser light. Similar control is difficult to
achieve with radio-frequency or microwave radiation: the essential coupling
between internal degrees of freedom and motion requires significant field changes
over the extent of the atoms' motion, but such changes are negligible at these
frequencies for freely propagating fields. An exception is in the near field of
microwave currents in structures smaller than the free-space wavelength, where
stronger gradients can be generated. Here we first manipulate coherently (on
timescales of 20 nanoseconds) the internal quantum states of ions held in a
microfabricated trap. The controlling magnetic fields are generated by microwave 
currents in electrodes that are integrated into the trap structure. We also
generate entanglement between the internal degrees of freedom of two atoms with a
gate operation suitable for general quantum computation; the entangled state has 
a fidelity of 0.76(3), where the uncertainty denotes standard error of the mean. 
Our approach, which involves integrating the quantum control mechanism into the
trapping device in a scalable manner, could be applied to quantum information
processing, simulation and spectroscopy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10290 
PMID: 21833084 


332. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):176-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10325.

Hydrogen is an energy source for hydrothermal vent symbioses.

Petersen JM(1), Zielinski FU, Pape T, Seifert R, Moraru C, Amann R, Hourdez S,
Girguis PR, Wankel SD, Barbe V, Pelletier E, Fink D, Borowski C, Bach W, Dubilier
N.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, Celsiusstrasse 1, 28359 Bremen, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):154-5.

The discovery of deep-sea hydrothermal vents in 1977 revolutionized our
understanding of the energy sources that fuel primary productivity on Earth.
Hydrothermal vent ecosystems are dominated by animals that live in symbiosis with
chemosynthetic bacteria. So far, only two energy sources have been shown to power
chemosynthetic symbioses: reduced sulphur compounds and methane. Using metagenome
sequencing, single-gene fluorescence in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry,
shipboard incubations and in situ mass spectrometry, we show here that the
symbionts of the hydrothermal vent mussel Bathymodiolus from the Mid-Atlantic
Ridge use hydrogen to power primary production. In addition, we show that the
symbionts of Bathymodiolus mussels from Pacific vents have hupL, the key gene for
hydrogen oxidation. Furthermore, the symbionts of other vent animals such as the 
tubeworm Riftia pachyptila and the shrimp Rimicaris exoculata also have hupL. We 
propose that the ability to use hydrogen as an energy source is widespread in
hydrothermal vent symbioses, particularly at sites where hydrogen is abundant.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10325 
PMID: 21833083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7359):163-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10275.

A continuum model for tumour suppression.

Berger AH(1), Knudson AG, Pandolfi PP.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genetics Program, Beth Israel Deaconess Cancer Center, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

This year, 2011, marks the forty-year anniversary of the statistical analysis of 
retinoblastoma that provided the first evidence that tumorigenesis can be
initiated by as few as two mutations. This work provided the foundation for the
two-hit hypothesis that explained the role of recessive tumour suppressor genes
(TSGs) in dominantly inherited cancer susceptibility syndromes. However, four
decades later, it is now known that even partial inactivation of tumour
suppressors can critically contribute to tumorigenesis. Here we analyse this
evidence and propose a continuum model of TSG function to explain the full range 
of TSG mutations found in cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10275 
PMCID: PMC3206311
PMID: 21833082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7361):434-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10321.

A young source for the Hawaiian plume.

Sobolev AV(1), Hofmann AW, Jochum KP, Kuzmin DV, Stoll B.

Author information: 
(1)ISTerre, University Joseph Fourier, Grenoble 1 and CNRS, BP 53, 38041
Grenoble, France. alexander.sobolev@ujf-grenoble.fr

Recycling of oceanic crust through subduction, mantle upwelling, and remelting in
mantle plumes is a widely accepted mechanism to explain ocean island volcanism.
The timescale of this recycling is important to our understanding of mantle
circulation rates. Correlations of uranogenic lead isotopes in lavas from ocean
islands such as Hawaii or Iceland, when interpreted as model isochrons, have
yielded source differentiation ages between 1 and 2.5 billion years (Gyr).
However, if such correlations are produced by mixing of unrelated mantle
components they will have no direct age significance. Re-Os decay model ages take
into account the mixing of sources with different histories, but they depend on
the assumed initial Re/Os ratio of the subducted crust, which is poorly
constrained because of the high mobility of rhenium during subduction. Here we
report the first data on (87)Sr/(86)Sr ratios for 138 melt inclusions in olivine 
phenocrysts from lavas of Mauna Loa shield volcano, Hawaii, indicating enormous
mantle source heterogeneity. We show that highly radiogenic strontium in severely
rubidium-depleted melt inclusions matches the isotopic composition of
200-650-Myr-old sea water. We infer that such sea water must have contaminated
the Mauna Loa source rock, before subduction, imparting a unique 'time stamp' on 
this source. Small amounts of seawater-derived strontium in plume sources may be 
common but can be identified clearly only in ultra-depleted melts originating
from generally highly (incompatible-element) depleted source components. The
presence of 200-650-Myr-old oceanic crust in the source of Hawaiian lavas implies
a timescale of general mantle circulation with an average rate of about 2
(±1) cm yr(-1), much faster than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10321 
PMID: 21832996 


335. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;477(7363):207-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10342.

The genome sequence of Atlantic cod reveals a unique immune system.

Star B(1), Nederbragt AJ, Jentoft S, Grimholt U, Malmstrøm M, Gregers TF, Rounge 
TB, Paulsen J, Solbakken MH, Sharma A, Wetten OF, Lanzén A, Winer R, Knight J,
Vogel JH, Aken B, Andersen O, Lagesen K, Tooming-Klunderud A, Edvardsen RB, Tina 
KG, Espelund M, Nepal C, Previti C, Karlsen BO, Moum T, Skage M, Berg PR, Gjøen
T, Kuhl H, Thorsen J, Malde K, Reinhardt R, Du L, Johansen SD, Searle S, Lien S, 
Nilsen F, Jonassen I, Omholt SW, Stenseth NC, Jakobsen KS.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biology,
University of Oslo, PO Box 1066, Blindern, N-0316 Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Sep;11(9):570.

Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) is a large, cold-adapted teleost that sustains
long-standing commercial fisheries and incipient aquaculture. Here we present the
genome sequence of Atlantic cod, showing evidence for complex thermal adaptations
in its haemoglobin gene cluster and an unusual immune architecture compared to
other sequenced vertebrates. The genome assembly was obtained exclusively by 454 
sequencing of shotgun and paired-end libraries, and automated annotation
identified 22,154 genes. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) II is a
conserved feature of the adaptive immune system of jawed vertebrates, but we show
that Atlantic cod has lost the genes for MHC II, CD4 and invariant chain (Ii)
that are essential for the function of this pathway. Nevertheless, Atlantic cod
is not exceptionally susceptible to disease under natural conditions. We find a
highly expanded number of MHC I genes and a unique composition of its Toll-like
receptor (TLR) families. This indicates how the Atlantic cod immune system has
evolved compensatory mechanisms in both adaptive and innate immunity in the
absence of MHC II. These observations affect fundamental assumptions about the
evolution of the adaptive immune system and its components in vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10342 
PMCID: PMC3537168
PMID: 21832995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;477(7363):199-202. doi: 10.1038/nature10282.

High plant diversity is needed to maintain ecosystem services.

Isbell F(1), Calcagno V, Hector A, Connolly J, Harpole WS, Reich PB,
Scherer-Lorenzen M, Schmid B, Tilman D, van Ruijven J, Weigelt A, Wilsey BJ,
Zavaleta ES, Loreau M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, H3A 1B1, Canada.
forest.isbell@gmail.com

Biodiversity is rapidly declining worldwide, and there is consensus that this can
decrease ecosystem functioning and services. It remains unclear, though, whether 
few or many of the species in an ecosystem are needed to sustain the provisioning
of ecosystem services. It has been hypothesized that most species would promote
ecosystem services if many times, places, functions and environmental changes
were considered; however, no previous study has considered all of these factors
together. Here we show that 84% of the 147 grassland plant species studied in 17 
biodiversity experiments promoted ecosystem functioning at least once. Different 
species promoted ecosystem functioning during different years, at different
places, for different functions and under different environmental change
scenarios. Furthermore, the species needed to provide one function during
multiple years were not the same as those needed to provide multiple functions
within one year. Our results indicate that even more species will be needed to
maintain ecosystem functioning and services than previously suggested by studies 
that have either (1) considered only the number of species needed to promote one 
function under one set of environmental conditions, or (2) separately considered 
the importance of biodiversity for providing ecosystem functioning across
multiple years, places, functions or environmental change scenarios. Therefore,
although species may appear functionally redundant when one function is
considered under one set of environmental conditions, many species are needed to 
maintain multiple functions at multiple times and places in a changing world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10282 
PMID: 21832994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7361):467-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10312.

A role for cohesin in T-cell-receptor rearrangement and thymocyte
differentiation.

Seitan VC(1), Hao B, Tachibana-Konwalski K, Lavagnolli T, Mira-Bontenbal H, Brown
KE, Teng G, Carroll T, Terry A, Horan K, Marks H, Adams DJ, Schatz DG, Aragon L, 
Fisher AG, Krangel MS, Nasmyth K, Merkenschlager M.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphocyte Development Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College
London, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK.

Cohesin enables post-replicative DNA repair and chromosome segregation by holding
sister chromatids together from the time of DNA replication in S phase until
mitosis. There is growing evidence that cohesin also forms long-range chromosomal
cis-interactions and may regulate gene expression in association with CTCF,
mediator or tissue-specific transcription factors. Human cohesinopathies such as 
Cornelia de Lange syndrome are thought to result from impaired non-canonical
cohesin functions, but a clear distinction between the cell-division-related and 
cell-division-independent functions of cohesion--as exemplified in
Drosophila--has not been demonstrated in vertebrate systems. To address this,
here we deleted the cohesin locus Rad21 in mouse thymocytes at a time in
development when these cells stop cycling and rearrange their T-cell receptor
(TCR) α locus (Tcra). Rad21-deficient thymocytes had a normal lifespan and
retained the ability to differentiate, albeit with reduced efficiency. Loss of
Rad21 led to defective chromatin architecture at the Tcra locus, where
cohesion-binding sites flank the TEA promoter and the Eα enhancer, and demarcate 
Tcra from interspersed Tcrd elements and neighbouring housekeeping genes. Cohesin
was required for long-range promoter-enhancer interactions, Tcra transcription,
H3K4me3 histone modifications that recruit the recombination machinery and Tcra
rearrangement. Provision of pre-rearranged TCR transgenes largely rescued
thymocyte differentiation, demonstrating that among thousands of potential target
genes across the genome, defective Tcra rearrangement was limiting for the
differentiation of cohesin-deficient thymocytes. These findings firmly establish 
a cell-division-independent role for cohesin in Tcra locus rearrangement and
provide a comprehensive account of the mechanisms by which cohesin enables
cellular differentiation in a well-characterized mammalian system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10312 
PMCID: PMC3179485
PMID: 21832993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 2011 Aug 10;476(7360):355-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10333.

Engineered reversal of the β-oxidation cycle for the synthesis of fuels and
chemicals.

Dellomonaco C(1), Clomburg JM, Miller EN, Gonzalez R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Rice University, Houston,
Texas 77005, USA.

Advanced (long-chain) fuels and chemicals are generated from short-chain
metabolic intermediates through pathways that require carbon-chain elongation.
The condensation reactions mediating this carbon-carbon bond formation can be
catalysed by enzymes from the thiolase superfamily, including
β-ketoacyl-acyl-carrier protein (ACP) synthases, polyketide synthases,
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthases, and biosynthetic thiolases. Pathways
involving these enzymes have been exploited for fuel and chemical production,
with fatty-acid biosynthesis (β-ketoacyl-ACP synthases) attracting the most
attention in recent years. Degradative thiolases, which are part of the thiolase 
superfamily and naturally function in the β-oxidation of fatty acids, can also
operate in the synthetic direction and thus enable carbon-chain elongation. Here 
we demonstrate that a functional reversal of the β-oxidation cycle can be used as
a metabolic platform for the synthesis of alcohols and carboxylic acids with
various chain lengths and functionalities. This pathway operates with coenzyme A 
(CoA) thioester intermediates and directly uses acetyl-CoA for acyl-chain
elongation (rather than first requiring ATP-dependent activation to malonyl-CoA),
characteristics that enable product synthesis at maximum carbon and energy
efficiency. The reversal of the β-oxidation cycle was engineered in Escherichia
coli and used in combination with endogenous dehydrogenases and thioesterases to 
synthesize n-alcohols, fatty acids and 3-hydroxy-, 3-keto- and
trans-Δ(2)-carboxylic acids. The superior nature of the engineered pathway was
demonstrated by producing higher-chain linear n-alcohols (C ≥ 4) and
extracellular long-chain fatty acids (C > 10) at higher efficiency than
previously reported. The ubiquitous nature of β-oxidation, aldehyde/alcohol
dehydrogenase and thioesterase enzymes has the potential to enable the efficient 
synthesis of these products in other industrial organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10333 
PMID: 21832992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2011 Aug 7;477(7362):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10331.

Protection of repetitive DNA borders from self-induced meiotic instability.

Vader G(1), Blitzblau HG, Tame MA, Falk JE, Curtin L, Hochwagen A.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) in repetitive sequences are a potent source of
genomic instability, owing to the possibility of non-allelic homologous
recombination (NAHR). Repetitive sequences are especially at risk during meiosis,
when numerous programmed DSBs are introduced into the genome to initiate meiotic 
recombination. In the repetitive ribosomal DNA (rDNA) array of the budding yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, meiotic DSB formation is prevented in part through
Sir2-dependent heterochromatin formation. Here we show that the edges of the rDNA
array are exceptionally susceptible to meiotic DSBs, revealing an inherent
heterogeneity in the rDNA array. We find that this localized DSB susceptibility
necessitates a border-specific protection system consisting of the meiotic ATPase
Pch2 and the origin recognition complex subunit Orc1. Upon disruption of these
factors, DSB formation and recombination increased specifically in the outermost 
rDNA repeats, leading to NAHR and rDNA instability. Notably, the Sir2-dependent
heterochromatin of the rDNA itself was responsible for the induction of DSBs at
the rDNA borders in pch2Δ cells. Thus, although the activity of Sir2 globally
prevents meiotic DSBs in the rDNA, it creates a highly permissive environment for
DSB formation at the junctions between heterochromatin and euchromatin.
Heterochromatinized repetitive DNA arrays are abundant in most eukaryotic
genomes. Our data define the borders of such chromatin domains as distinct
high-risk regions for meiotic NAHR, the protection of which may be a universal
requirement to prevent meiotic genome rearrangements that are associated with
genomic diseases and birth defects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10331 
PMCID: PMC3166416
PMID: 21822291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2011 Aug 7;477(7362):103-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10335.

Modulation of Rab GTPase function by a protein phosphocholine transferase.

Mukherjee S(1), Liu X, Arasaki K, McDonough J, Galán JE, Roy CR.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Microbial Pathogenesis, Yale University School of Medicine, Boyer
Center for Molecular Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, CT 06536,
USA.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2011 Aug 18;10(2):89-91.

The intracellular pathogen Legionella pneumophila modulates the activity of host 
GTPases to direct the transport and assembly of the membrane-bound compartment in
which it resides. In vitro studies have indicated that the Legionella protein
DrrA post-translationally modifies the GTPase Rab1 by a process called
AMPylation. Here we used mass spectrometry to investigate post-translational
modifications to Rab1 that occur during infection of host cells by Legionella.
Consistent with in vitro studies, DrrA-mediated AMPylation of a conserved
tyrosine residue in the switch II region of Rab1 was detected during infection.
In addition, a modification to an adjacent serine residue in Rab1 was discovered,
which was independent of DrrA. The Legionella effector protein AnkX was required 
for this modification. Biochemical studies determined that AnkX directly mediates
the covalent attachment of a phosphocholine moiety to Rab1. This phosphocholine
transferase activity used CDP-choline as a substrate and required a conserved
histidine residue located in the FIC domain of the AnkX protein. During
infection, AnkX modified both Rab1 and Rab35, which explains how this protein
modulates membrane transport through both the endocytic and exocytic pathways of 
the host cell. Thus, phosphocholination of Rab GTPases represents a mechanism by 
which bacterial FIC-domain-containing proteins can alter host-cell functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10335 
PMCID: PMC3206611
PMID: 21822290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 2011 Aug 7;476(7361):462-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10286.

Polar actomyosin contractility destabilizes the position of the cytokinetic
furrow.

Sedzinski J(1), Biro M, Oswald A, Tinevez JY, Salbreux G, Paluch E.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 01307 Dresden,
Germany.

Cytokinesis, the physical separation of daughter cells at the end of mitosis,
requires precise regulation of the mechanical properties of the cell periphery.
Although studies of cytokinetic mechanics mostly focus on the equatorial
constriction ring, a contractile actomyosin cortex is also present at the poles
of dividing cells. Whether polar forces influence cytokinetic cell shape and
furrow positioning remains an open question. Here we demonstrate that the polar
cortex makes cytokinesis inherently unstable. We show that limited asymmetric
polar contractions occur during cytokinesis, and that perturbing the polar cortex
leads to cell shape oscillations, resulting in furrow displacement and
aneuploidy. A theoretical model based on a competition between cortex turnover
and contraction dynamics accurately accounts for the oscillations. We further
propose that membrane blebs, which commonly form at the poles of dividing cells
and whose role in cytokinesis has long been enigmatic, stabilize cell shape by
acting as valves releasing cortical contractility. Our findings reveal an
inherent instability in the shape of the dividing cell and unveil a novel,
spindle-independent mechanism ensuring the stability of cleavage furrow
positioning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10286 
PMID: 21822289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Nature. 2011 Aug 7;476(7361):414-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10330.

Structure of the membrane domain of respiratory complex I.

Efremov RG(1), Sazanov LA.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Wellcome Trust/MRC
Building, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Complex I is the first and largest enzyme of the respiratory chain, coupling
electron transfer between NADH and ubiquinone to the translocation of four
protons across the membrane. It has a central role in cellular energy production 
and has been implicated in many human neurodegenerative diseases. The L-shaped
enzyme consists of hydrophilic and membrane domains. Previously, we determined
the structure of the hydrophilic domain. Here we report the crystal structure of 
the Esherichia coli complex I membrane domain at 3.0 Å resolution. It includes
six subunits, NuoL, NuoM, NuoN, NuoA, NuoJ and NuoK, with 55 transmembrane
helices. The fold of the homologous antiporter-like subunits L, M and N is novel,
with two inverted structural repeats of five transmembrane helices arranged,
unusually, face-to-back. Each repeat includes a discontinuous transmembrane helix
and forms half of a channel across the membrane. A network of conserved polar
residues connects the two half-channels, completing the proton translocation
pathway. Unexpectedly, lysines rather than carboxylate residues act as the main
elements of the proton pump in these subunits. The fourth probable
proton-translocation channel is at the interface of subunits N, K, J and A. The
structure indicates that proton translocation in complex I, uniquely, involves
coordinated conformational changes in six symmetrical structural elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10330 
PMID: 21822288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature10237.

HIV-1 adaptation to NK-cell-mediated immune pressure.

Alter G(1), Heckerman D, Schneidewind A, Fadda L, Kadie CM, Carlson JM,
Oniangue-Ndza C, Martin M, Li B, Khakoo SI, Carrington M, Allen TM, Altfeld M.

Author information: 
(1)Ragon Institute at MGH, MIT and Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02129, USA.

Natural killer (NK) cells have an important role in the control of viral
infections, recognizing virally infected cells through a variety of activating
and inhibitory receptors. Epidemiological and functional studies have recently
suggested that NK cells can also contribute to the control of HIV-1 infection
through recognition of virally infected cells by both activating and inhibitory
killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs). However, it remains unknown whether 
NK cells can directly mediate antiviral immune pressure in vivo in humans. Here
we describe KIR-associated amino-acid polymorphisms in the HIV-1 sequence of
chronically infected individuals, on a population level. We show that these
KIR-associated HIV-1 sequence polymorphisms can enhance the binding of inhibitory
KIRs to HIV-1-infected CD4(+) T cells, and reduce the antiviral activity of
KIR-positive NK cells. These data demonstrate that KIR-positive NK cells can
place immunological pressure on HIV-1, and that the virus can evade such
NK-cell-mediated immune pressure by selecting for sequence polymorphisms, as was 
previously described for virus-specific T cells and neutralizing antibodies. NK
cells might therefore have a previously underappreciated role in contributing to 
viral evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10237 
PMCID: PMC3194000
PMID: 21814282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):88-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10245.

Ganglion-specific splicing of TRPV1 underlies infrared sensation in vampire bats.

Gracheva EO(1), Cordero-Morales JF, González-Carcacía JA, Ingolia NT, Manno C,
Aranguren CI, Weissman JS, Julius D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, San Francisco, California 
94158-2517, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):40-1.

Vampire bats (Desmodus rotundus) are obligate blood feeders that have evolved
specialized systems to suit their sanguinary lifestyle. Chief among such
adaptations is the ability to detect infrared radiation as a means of locating
hotspots on warm-blooded prey. Among vertebrates, only vampire bats, boas,
pythons and pit vipers are capable of detecting infrared radiation. In each case,
infrared signals are detected by trigeminal nerve fibres that innervate
specialized pit organs on the animal's face. Thus, vampire bats and snakes have
taken thermosensation to the extreme by developing specialized systems for
detecting infrared radiation. As such, these creatures provide a window into the 
molecular and genetic mechanisms underlying evolutionary tuning of
thermoreceptors in a species-specific or cell-type-specific manner. Previously,
we have shown that snakes co-opt a non-heat-sensitive channel, vertebrate TRPA1
(transient receptor potential cation channel A1), to produce an infrared
detector. Here we show that vampire bats tune a channel that is already
heat-sensitive, TRPV1, by lowering its thermal activation threshold to about
30 °C. This is achieved through alternative splicing of TRPV1 transcripts to
produce a channel with a truncated carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic domain. These
splicing events occur exclusively in trigeminal ganglia, and not in dorsal root
ganglia, thereby maintaining a role for TRPV1 as a detector of noxious heat in
somatic afferents. This reflects a unique organization of the bat Trpv1 gene that
we show to be characteristic of Laurasiatheria mammals (cows, dogs and moles),
supporting a close phylogenetic relationship with bats. These findings reveal a
novel molecular mechanism for physiological tuning of thermosensory nerve fibres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10245 
PMCID: PMC3535012
PMID: 21814281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10295.

Sensitivity of coccolithophores to carbonate chemistry and ocean acidification.

Beaufort L(1), Probert I, de Garidel-Thoron T, Bendif EM, Ruiz-Pino D, Metzl N,
Goyet C, Buchet N, Coupel P, Grelaud M, Rost B, Rickaby RE, de Vargas C.

Author information: 
(1)CEREGE, CNRS/Université Aix-Marseille, Avenue L. Philibert BP80, 13545
Aix-en-Provence, Cedex 4, France. beaufort@cerege.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):41-2.

About one-third of the carbon dioxide (CO(2)) released into the atmosphere as a
result of human activity has been absorbed by the oceans, where it partitions
into the constituent ions of carbonic acid. This leads to ocean acidification,
one of the major threats to marine ecosystems and particularly to calcifying
organisms such as corals, foraminifera and coccolithophores. Coccolithophores are
abundant phytoplankton that are responsible for a large part of modern oceanic
carbonate production. Culture experiments investigating the physiological
response of coccolithophore calcification to increased CO(2) have yielded
contradictory results between and even within species. Here we quantified the
calcite mass of dominant coccolithophores in the present ocean and over the past 
forty thousand years, and found a marked pattern of decreasing calcification with
increasing partial pressure of CO(2) and concomitant decreasing concentrations of
CO(3)(2-). Our analyses revealed that differentially calcified species and
morphotypes are distributed in the ocean according to carbonate chemistry. A
substantial impact on the marine carbon cycle might be expected upon
extrapolation of this correlation to predicted ocean acidification in the future.
However, our discovery of a heavily calcified Emiliania huxleyi morphotype in
modern waters with low pH highlights the complexity of assemblage-level responses
to environmental forcing factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10295 
PMID: 21814280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):73-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10308.

Link between spin fluctuations and electron pairing in copper oxide
superconductors.

Jin K(1), Butch NP, Kirshenbaum K, Paglione J, Greene RL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nanophysics & Advanced Materials, University of Maryland, College
Park, Maryland 20742, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):37-9.

Although it is generally accepted that superconductivity is unconventional in the
high-transition-temperature copper oxides, the relative importance of phenomena
such as spin and charge (stripe) order, superconductivity fluctuations, proximity
to a Mott insulator, a pseudogap phase and quantum criticality are still a matter
of debate. In electron-doped copper oxides, the absence of an anomalous pseudogap
phase in the underdoped region of the phase diagram and weaker electron
correlations suggest that Mott physics and other unidentified competing orders
are less relevant and that antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations are the dominant
feature. Here we report a study of magnetotransport in thin films of the
electron-doped copper oxide La(2 - x)Ce(x)CuO(4). We show that a scattering rate 
that is linearly dependent on temperature--a key feature of the anomalous normal 
state properties of the copper oxides--is correlated with the electron pairing.
We also show that an envelope of such scattering surrounds the superconducting
phase, surviving to zero temperature when superconductivity is suppressed by
magnetic fields. Comparison with similar behaviour found in organic
superconductors strongly suggests that the linear dependence on temperature of
the resistivity in the electron-doped copper oxides is caused by spin-fluctuation
scattering.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10308 
PMID: 21814279 


347. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):69-72. doi: 10.1038/nature10289.

Forming the lunar farside highlands by accretion of a companion moon.

Jutzi M(1), Asphaug E.

Author information: 
(1)Earth and Planetary Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz,
1156 Highstreet, Santa Cruz, California 95060, USA. martin.jutzi@space.unibe.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):36-7.

The most striking geological feature of the Moon is the terrain and elevation
dichotomy between the hemispheres: the nearside is low and flat, dominated by
volcanic maria, whereas the farside is mountainous and deeply cratered.
Associated with this geological dichotomy is a compositional and thermal
variation, with the nearside Procellarum KREEP (potassium/rare-earth
element/phosphorus) Terrane and environs interpreted as having thin,
compositionally evolved crust in comparison with the massive feldspathic
highlands. The lunar dichotomy may have been caused by internal effects (for
example spatial variations in tidal heating, asymmetric convective processes or
asymmetric crystallization of the magma ocean) or external effects (such as the
event that formed the South Pole/Aitken basin or asymmetric cratering). Here we
consider its origin as a late carapace added by the accretion of a companion
moon. Companion moons are a common outcome of simulations of Moon formation from 
a protolunar disk resulting from a giant impact, and although most coplanar
configurations are unstable, a ∼1,200-km-diameter moon located at one of the
Trojan points could be dynamically stable for tens of millions of years after the
giant impact. Most of the Moon's magma ocean would solidify on this timescale,
whereas the companion moon would evolve more quickly into a crust and a solid
mantle derived from similar disk material, and would presumably have little or no
core. Its likely fate would be to collide with the Moon at ∼2-3 km s(-1), well
below the speed of sound in silicates. According to our simulations, a large
moon/Moon size ratio (∼0.3) and a subsonic impact velocity lead to an
accretionary pile rather than a crater, contributing a hemispheric layer of
extent and thickness consistent with the dimensions of the farside highlands and 
in agreement with the degree-two crustal thickness profile. The collision
furthermore displaces the KREEP-rich layer to the opposite hemisphere, explaining
the observed concentration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10289 
PMID: 21814278 


348. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):63-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10279.

A critical role for TCF-1 in T-lineage specification and differentiation.

Weber BN(1), Chi AW, Chavez A, Yashiro-Ohtani Y, Yang Q, Shestova O, Bhandoola A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

The vertebrate thymus provides an inductive environment for T-cell development.
Within the mouse thymus, Notch signals are indispensable for imposing the T-cell 
fate on multipotential haematopoietic progenitors, but the downstream effectors
that impart T-lineage specification and commitment are not well understood. Here 
we show that a transcription factor, T-cell factor 1 (TCF-1; also known as
transcription factor 7, T-cell specific, TCF7), is a critical regulator in T-cell
specification. TCF-1 is highly expressed in the earliest thymic progenitors, and 
its expression is upregulated by Notch signals. Most importantly, when TCF-1 is
forcibly expressed in bone marrow (BM) progenitors, it drives the development of 
T-lineage cells in the absence of T-inductive Notch1 signals. Further
characterization of these TCF-1-induced cells revealed expression of many
T-lineage genes, including T-cell-specific transcription factors Gata3 and
Bcl11b, and components of the T-cell receptor. Our data suggest a model where
Notch signals induce TCF-1, and TCF-1 in turn imprints the T-cell fate by
upregulating expression of T-cell essential genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10279 
PMCID: PMC3156435
PMID: 21814277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):57-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10277.

On the growth and form of the gut.

Savin T(1), Kurpios NA, Shyer AE, Florescu P, Liang H, Mahadevan L, Tabin CJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Oct;8(10):533.

The developing vertebrate gut tube forms a reproducible looped pattern as it
grows into the body cavity. Here we use developmental experiments to eliminate
alternative models and show that gut looping morphogenesis is driven by the
homogeneous and isotropic forces that arise from the relative growth between the 
gut tube and the anchoring dorsal mesenteric sheet, tissues that grow at
different rates. A simple physical mimic, using a differentially strained
composite of a pliable rubber tube and a soft latex sheet is consistent with this
mechanism and produces similar patterns. We devise a mathematical theory and a
computational model for the number, size and shape of intestinal loops based
solely on the measurable geometry, elasticity and relative growth of the tissues.
The predictions of our theory are quantitatively consistent with observations of 
intestinal loops at different stages of development in the chick embryo. Our
model also accounts for the qualitative and quantitative variation in the
distinct gut looping patterns seen in a variety of species including quail, finch
and mouse, illuminating how the simple macroscopic mechanics of differential
growth drives the morphology of the developing gut.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10277 
PMCID: PMC3335276
PMID: 21814276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):51-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10306.

Woody cover and hominin environments in the past 6 million years.

Cerling TE(1), Wynn JG, Andanje SA, Bird MI, Korir DK, Levin NE, Mace W, Macharia
AN, Quade J, Remien CH.

Author information: 
(1)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA. thure.cerling@utah.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 4;476(7358):39-40.

The role of African savannahs in the evolution of early hominins has been debated
for nearly a century. Resolution of this issue has been hindered by difficulty in
quantifying the fraction of woody cover in the fossil record. Here we show that
the fraction of woody cover in tropical ecosystems can be quantified using stable
carbon isotopes in soils. Furthermore, we use fossil soils from hominin sites in 
the Awash and Omo-Turkana basins in eastern Africa to reconstruct the fraction of
woody cover since the Late Miocene epoch (about 7 million years ago). (13)C/(12)C
ratio data from 1,300 palaeosols at or adjacent to hominin sites dating to at
least 6 million years ago show that woody cover was predominantly less than ∼40% 
at most sites. These data point to the prevalence of open environments at the
majority of hominin fossil sites in eastern Africa over the past 6 million years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10306 
PMID: 21814275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7358):43-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10322.

Non-CO2 greenhouse gases and climate change.

Montzka SA(1), Dlugokencky EJ, Butler JH.

Author information: 
(1)National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.
stephen.a.montzka@noaa.gov

Earth's climate is warming as a result of anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse
gases, particularly carbon dioxide (CO(2)) from fossil fuel combustion.
Anthropogenic emissions of non-CO(2) greenhouse gases, such as methane, nitrous
oxide and ozone-depleting substances (largely from sources other than fossil
fuels), also contribute significantly to warming. Some non-CO(2) greenhouse gases
have much shorter lifetimes than CO(2), so reducing their emissions offers an
additional opportunity to lessen future climate change. Although it is clear that
sustainably reducing the warming influence of greenhouse gases will be possible
only with substantial cuts in emissions of CO(2), reducing non-CO(2) greenhouse
gas emissions would be a relatively quick way of contributing to this goal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10322 
PMID: 21814274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7360):312-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10310.

Southern Ocean dust-climate coupling over the past four million years.

Martínez-Garcia A(1), Rosell-Melé A, Jaccard SL, Geibert W, Sigman DM, Haug GH.

Author information: 
(1)Geological Institute, ETH Zürich, Zürich 8092, Switzerland.
alfredo.martinez-garcia@erdw.ethz.ch

Dust has the potential to modify global climate by influencing the radiative
balance of the atmosphere and by supplying iron and other essential limiting
micronutrients to the ocean. Indeed, dust supply to the Southern Ocean increases 
during ice ages, and 'iron fertilization' of the subantarctic zone may have
contributed up to 40 parts per million by volume (p.p.m.v.) of the decrease
(80-100 p.p.m.v.) in atmospheric carbon dioxide observed during late Pleistocene 
glacial cycles. So far, however, the magnitude of Southern Ocean dust deposition 
in earlier times and its role in the development and evolution of Pleistocene
glacial cycles have remained unclear. Here we report a high-resolution record of 
dust and iron supply to the Southern Ocean over the past four million years,
derived from the analysis of marine sediments from ODP Site 1090, located in the 
Atlantic sector of the subantarctic zone. The close correspondence of our dust
and iron deposition records with Antarctic ice core reconstructions of dust flux 
covering the past 800,000 years (refs 8, 9) indicates that both of these archives
record large-scale deposition changes that should apply to most of the Southern
Ocean, validating previous interpretations of the ice core data. The extension of
the record beyond the interval covered by the Antarctic ice cores reveals that,
in contrast to the relatively gradual intensification of glacial cycles over the 
past three million years, Southern Ocean dust and iron flux rose sharply at the
Mid-Pleistocene climatic transition around 1.25 million years ago. This finding
complements previous observations over late Pleistocene glacial cycles, providing
new evidence of a tight connection between high dust input to the Southern Ocean 
and the emergence of the deep glaciations that characterize the past one million 
years of Earth history.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10310 
PMID: 21814203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7359):202-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10274.

C4 grasses prosper as carbon dioxide eliminates desiccation in warmed semi-arid
grassland.

Morgan JA(1), LeCain DR, Pendall E, Blumenthal DM, Kimball BA, Carrillo Y,
Williams DG, Heisler-White J, Dijkstra FA, West M.

Author information: 
(1)USDA-ARS, Rangeland Resources Research Unit and Northern Plains Area, Fort
Collins, Colorado 80526, USA. jack.morgan@ars.usda.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):160-1.

Global warming is predicted to induce desiccation in many world regions through
increases in evaporative demand. Rising CO(2) may counter that trend by improving
plant water-use efficiency. However, it is not clear how important this
CO(2)-enhanced water use efficiency might be in offsetting warming-induced
desiccation because higher CO(2) also leads to higher plant biomass, and
therefore greater transpirational surface. Furthermore, although warming is
predicted to favour warm-season, C(4) grasses, rising CO(2) should favour C(3),
or cool-season plants. Here we show in a semi-arid grassland that elevated CO(2) 
can completely reverse the desiccating effects of moderate warming. Although
enrichment of air to 600 p.p.m.v. CO(2) increased soil water content (SWC),
1.5/3.0 °C day/night warming resulted in desiccation, such that combined CO(2)
enrichment and warming had no effect on SWC relative to control plots. As
predicted, elevated CO(2) favoured C(3) grasses and enhanced stand productivity, 
whereas warming favoured C(4) grasses. Combined warming and CO(2) enrichment
stimulated above-ground growth of C(4) grasses in 2 of 3 years when soil moisture
most limited plant productivity. The results indicate that in a warmer,
CO(2)-enriched world, both SWC and productivity in semi-arid grasslands may be
higher than previously expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10274 
PMID: 21814202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;476(7361):458-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10287.

Adult hippocampal neurogenesis buffers stress responses and depressive behaviour.

Snyder JS(1), Soumier A, Brewer M, Pickel J, Cameron HA.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Oct 4;9(4):287-8.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Sep;12(9):492-3.

Glucocorticoids are released in response to stressful experiences and serve many 
beneficial homeostatic functions. However, dysregulation of glucocorticoids is
associated with cognitive impairments and depressive illness. In the hippocampus,
a brain region densely populated with receptors for stress hormones, stress and
glucocorticoids strongly inhibit adult neurogenesis. Decreased neurogenesis has
been implicated in the pathogenesis of anxiety and depression, but direct
evidence for this role is lacking. Here we show that adult-born hippocampal
neurons are required for normal expression of the endocrine and behavioural
components of the stress response. Using either transgenic or radiation methods
to inhibit adult neurogenesis specifically, we find that glucocorticoid levels
are slower to recover after moderate stress and are less suppressed by
dexamethasone in neurogenesis-deficient mice than intact mice, consistent with a 
role for the hippocampus in regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
(HPA) axis. Relative to controls, neurogenesis-deficient mice also showed
increased food avoidance in a novel environment after acute stress, increased
behavioural despair in the forced swim test, and decreased sucrose preference, a 
measure of anhedonia. These findings identify a small subset of neurons within
the dentate gyrus that are critical for hippocampal negative control of the HPA
axis and support a direct role for adult neurogenesis in depressive illness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10287 
PMCID: PMC3162077
PMID: 21814201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 2011 Aug 3;478(7370):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10334.

RNAi screen identifies Brd4 as a therapeutic target in acute myeloid leukaemia.

Zuber J(1), Shi J, Wang E, Rappaport AR, Herrmann H, Sison EA, Magoon D, Qi J,
Blatt K, Wunderlich M, Taylor MJ, Johns C, Chicas A, Mulloy JC, Kogan SC, Brown
P, Valent P, Bradner JE, Lowe SW, Vakoc CR.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA.

Epigenetic pathways can regulate gene expression by controlling and interpreting 
chromatin modifications. Cancer cells are characterized by altered epigenetic
landscapes, and commonly exploit the chromatin regulatory machinery to enforce
oncogenic gene expression programs. Although chromatin alterations are, in
principle, reversible and often amenable to drug intervention, the promise of
targeting such pathways therapeutically has been limited by an incomplete
understanding of cancer-specific dependencies on epigenetic regulators. Here we
describe a non-biased approach to probe epigenetic vulnerabilities in acute
myeloid leukaemia (AML), an aggressive haematopoietic malignancy that is often
associated with aberrant chromatin states. By screening a custom library of small
hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) targeting known chromatin regulators in a genetically
defined AML mouse model, we identify the protein bromodomain-containing 4 (Brd4) 
as being critically required for disease maintenance. Suppression of Brd4 using
shRNAs or the small-molecule inhibitor JQ1 led to robust antileukaemic effects in
vitro and in vivo, accompanied by terminal myeloid differentiation and
elimination of leukaemia stem cells. Similar sensitivities were observed in a
variety of human AML cell lines and primary patient samples, revealing that JQ1
has broad activity in diverse AML subtypes. The effects of Brd4 suppression are, 
at least in part, due to its role in sustaining Myc expression to promote
aberrant self-renewal, which implicates JQ1 as a pharmacological means to
suppress MYC in cancer. Our results establish small-molecule inhibition of Brd4
as a promising therapeutic strategy in AML and, potentially, other cancers, and
highlight the utility of RNA interference (RNAi) screening for revealing
epigenetic vulnerabilities that can be exploited for direct pharmacological
intervention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10334 
PMCID: PMC3328300
PMID: 21814200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 2011 Jul 31;476(7361):446-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10305.

A chronological framework for the British Quaternary based on Bithynia opercula.

Penkman KE(1), Preece RC, Bridgland DR, Keen DH, Meijer T, Parfitt SA, White TS, 
Collins MJ.

Author information: 
(1)BioArCh, Department of Archaeology, University of York, York YO10 5DD, UK.
kirsty.penkman@york.ac.uk

Marine and ice-core records show that the Earth has experienced a succession of
glacials and interglacials during the Quaternary (last ∼2.6 million years),
although it is often difficult to correlate fragmentary terrestrial records with 
specific cycles. Aminostratigraphy is a method potentially able to link
terrestrial sequences to the marine isotope stages (MIS) of the deep-sea record. 
We have used new methods of extraction and analysis of amino acids, preserved
within the calcitic opercula of the freshwater gastropod Bithynia, to provide the
most comprehensive data set for the British Pleistocene based on a single dating 
technique. A total of 470 opercula from 74 sites spanning the entire Quaternary
are ranked in order of relative age based on the extent of protein degradation,
using aspartic acid/asparagine (Asx), glutamic acid/glutamine (Glx), serine
(Ser), alanine (Ala) and valine (Val). This new aminostratigraphy is consistent
with the stratigraphical relationships of stratotypes, sites with independent
geochronology, biostratigraphy and terrace stratigraphy. The method corroborates 
the existence of four interglacial stages between the Anglian (MIS 12) and the
Holocene in the terrestrial succession. It establishes human occupation of
Britain in most interglacial stages after MIS 15, but supports the notion of
human absence during the Last Interglacial (MIS 5e). Suspicions that the treeless
'optimum of the Upton Warren interstadial' at Isleworth pre-dates MIS 3 are
confirmed. This new aminostratigraphy provides a robust framework against which
climatic, biostratigraphical and archaeological models can be tested.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10305 
PMCID: PMC3162487
PMID: 21804567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 2011 Jul 31;476(7360):332-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10272.

14-3-3 proteins act as intracellular receptors for rice Hd3a florigen.

Taoka K(1), Ohki I, Tsuji H, Furuita K, Hayashi K, Yanase T, Yamaguchi M,
Nakashima C, Purwestri YA, Tamaki S, Ogaki Y, Shimada C, Nakagawa A, Kojima C,
Shimamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Plant Molecular Genetics, Graduate School of Biological
Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and Technology, 8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara 
630-0192, Japan.

'Florigen' was proposed 75 years ago to be synthesized in the leaf and
transported to the shoot apex, where it induces flowering. Only recently have
genetic and biochemical studies established that florigen is encoded by FLOWERING
LOCUS T (FT), a gene that is universally conserved in higher plants. Nonetheless,
the exact function of florigen during floral induction remains poorly understood 
and receptors for florigen have not been identified. Here we show that the rice
FT homologue Hd3a interacts with 14-3-3 proteins in the apical cells of shoots,
yielding a complex that translocates to the nucleus and binds to the Oryza sativa
(Os)FD1 transcription factor, a rice homologue of Arabidopsis thaliana FD. The
resultant ternary 'florigen activation complex' (FAC) induces transcription of
OsMADS15, a homologue of A. thaliana APETALA1 (AP1), which leads to flowering. We
have determined the 2.4 Å crystal structure of rice FAC, which provides a
mechanistic basis for florigen function in flowering. Our results indicate that
14-3-3 proteins act as intracellular receptors for florigen in shoot apical
cells, and offer new approaches to manipulate flowering in various crops and
trees.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10272 
PMID: 21804566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 2011 Jul 31;476(7360):351-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10247.

Different substrate-dependent transition states in the active site of the
ribosome.

Kuhlenkoetter S(1), Wintermeyer W, Rodnina MV.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

The active site of the ribosome, the peptidyl transferase centre, catalyses two
reactions, namely, peptide bond formation between peptidyl-tRNA and
aminoacyl-tRNA as well as the release-factor-dependent hydrolysis of
peptidyl-tRNA. Unlike peptide bond formation, peptide release is strongly
impaired by mutations of nucleotides within the active site, in particular by
base exchanges at position A2602 (refs 1, 2). The 2'-OH group of A76 of the
peptidyl-tRNA substrate seems to have a key role in peptide release. According to
computational analysis, the 2'-OH may take part in a concerted 'proton shuttle'
by which the leaving group is protonated, in analogy to similar current models of
peptide bond formation. Here we report kinetic solvent isotope effects and proton
inventories (reaction rates measured in buffers with increasing content of
deuterated water, D(2)O) of the two reactions catalysed by the active site of the
Escherichia coli ribosome. The transition state of the release factor 2
(RF2)-dependent hydrolysis reaction is characterized by the rate-limiting
formation of a single strong hydrogen bond. This finding argues against a
concerted proton shuttle in the transition state of the hydrolysis reaction. In
comparison, the proton inventory for peptide bond formation indicates the
rate-limiting formation of three hydrogen bonds with about equal contributions,
consistent with a concerted eight-membered proton shuttle in the transition
state. Thus, the ribosome supports different rate-limiting transition states for 
the two reactions that take place in the peptidyl transferase centre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10247 
PMID: 21804565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 2011 Jul 31;477(7364):330-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10273.

FADD prevents RIP3-mediated epithelial cell necrosis and chronic intestinal
inflammation.

Welz PS(1), Wullaert A, Vlantis K, Kondylis V, Fernández-Majada V, Ermolaeva M,
Kirsch P, Sterner-Kock A, van Loo G, Pasparakis M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genetics, Centre for Molecular Medicine, University of Cologne, 
Zülpicher Str. 47a, 50674 Cologne, Germany.

Intestinal immune homeostasis depends on a tightly regulated cross talk between
commensal bacteria, mucosal immune cells and intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). 
Epithelial barrier disruption is considered to be a potential cause of
inflammatory bowel disease; however, the mechanisms regulating intestinal
epithelial integrity are poorly understood. Here we show that mice with
IEC-specific knockout of FADD (FADD(IEC-KO)), an adaptor protein required for
death-receptor-induced apoptosis, spontaneously developed epithelial cell
necrosis, loss of Paneth cells, enteritis and severe erosive colitis. Genetic
deficiency in RIP3, a critical regulator of programmed necrosis, prevented the
development of spontaneous pathology in both the small intestine and colon of
FADD(IEC-KO) mice, demonstrating that intestinal inflammation is triggered by
RIP3-dependent death of FADD-deficient IECs. Epithelial-specific inhibition of
CYLD, a deubiquitinase that regulates cellular necrosis, prevented colitis
development in FADD(IEC-KO) but not in NEMO(IEC-KO) mice, showing that different 
mechanisms mediated death of colonic epithelial cells in these two models. In
FADD(IEC-KO) mice, TNF deficiency ameliorated colon inflammation, whereas MYD88
deficiency and also elimination of the microbiota prevented colon inflammation,
indicating that bacteria-mediated Toll-like-receptor signalling drives colitis by
inducing the expression of TNF and other cytokines. However, neither CYLD, TNF or
MYD88 deficiency nor elimination of the microbiota could prevent Paneth cell loss
and enteritis in FADD(IEC-KO) mice, showing that different mechanisms drive
RIP3-dependent necrosis of FADD-deficient IECs in the small and large bowel.
Therefore, by inhibiting RIP3-mediated IEC necrosis, FADD preserves epithelial
barrier integrity and antibacterial defence, maintains homeostasis and prevents
chronic intestinal inflammation. Collectively, these results show that mechanisms
preventing RIP3-mediated epithelial cell death are critical for the maintenance
of intestinal homeostasis and indicate that programmed necrosis of IECs might be 
implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease, in which Paneth
cell and barrier defects are thought to contribute to intestinal inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10273 
PMID: 21804564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):524-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10280.

Oxysterols direct immune cell migration via EBI2.

Hannedouche S(1), Zhang J, Yi T, Shen W, Nguyen D, Pereira JP, Guerini D,
Baumgarten BU, Roggo S, Wen B, Knochenmuss R, Noël S, Gessier F, Kelly LM, Vanek 
M, Laurent S, Preuss I, Miault C, Christen I, Karuna R, Li W, Koo DI, Suply T,
Schmedt C, Peters EC, Falchetto R, Katopodis A, Spanka C, Roy MO, Detheux M, Chen
YA, Schultz PG, Cho CY, Seuwen K, Cyster JG, Sailer AW.

Author information: 
(1)Euroscreen S.A., 6041 Gosselies, Belgium.

Epstein-Barr virus-induced gene 2 (EBI2, also known as GPR183) is a
G-protein-coupled receptor that is required for humoral immune responses;
polymorphisms in the receptor have been associated with inflammatory autoimmune
diseases. The natural ligand for EBI2 has been unknown. Here we describe the
identification of 7α,25-dihydroxycholesterol (also called 7α,25-OHC or
5-cholesten-3β,7α,25-triol) as a potent and selective agonist of EBI2. Functional
activation of human EBI2 by 7α,25-OHC and closely related oxysterols was verified
by monitoring second messenger readouts and saturable, high-affinity radioligand 
binding. Furthermore, we find that 7α,25-OHC and closely related oxysterols act
as chemoattractants for immune cells expressing EBI2 by directing cell migration 
in vitro and in vivo. A critical enzyme required for the generation of 7α,25-OHC 
is cholesterol 25-hydroxylase (CH25H). Similar to EBI2 receptor knockout mice,
mice deficient in CH25H fail to position activated B cells within the spleen to
the outer follicle and mount a reduced plasma cell response after an immune
challenge. This demonstrates that CH25H generates EBI2 biological activity in
vivo and indicates that the EBI2-oxysterol signalling pathway has an important
role in the adaptive immune response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10280 
PMCID: PMC4297623
PMID: 21796212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):519-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10226.

Oxysterols direct B-cell migration through EBI2.

Liu C(1), Yang XV, Wu J, Kuei C, Mani NS, Zhang L, Yu J, Sutton SW, Qin N, Banie 
H, Karlsson L, Sun S, Lovenberg TW.

Author information: 
(1)Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development, L.L.C., 3210
Merryfield Row, San Diego, California 92121, USA. cliu9@its.jnj.com

EBI2 (also called GPR183) is an orphan G-protein-coupled receptor that is highly 
expressed in spleen and upregulated upon Epstein-Barr-virus infection. Recent
studies indicated that this receptor controls follicular B-cell migration and
T-cell-dependent antibody production. Oxysterols elicit profound effects on
immune and inflammatory responses as well as on cholesterol metabolism. The
biological effects of oxysterols have largely been credited to the activation of 
nuclear hormone receptors. Here we isolate oxysterols from porcine spleen
extracts and show that they are endogenous ligands for EBI2. The most potent
ligand and activator is 7α,25-dihydroxycholesterol (OHC), with a dissociation
constant of 450 pM for EBI2. In vitro, 7α,25-OHC stimulated the migration of
EBI2-expressing mouse B and T cells with half-maximum effective concentration
values around 500 pM, but had no effect on EBI2-deficient cells. In vivo,
EBI2-deficient B cells or normal B cells desensitized by 7α,25-OHC pre-treatment 
showed reduced homing to follicular areas of the spleen. Blocking the synthesis
of 7α,25-OHC in vivo with clotrimazole, a CYP7B1 inhibitor, reduced the content
of 7α,25-OHC in the mouse spleen and promoted the migration of adoptively
transferred pre-activated B cells to the T/B boundary (the boundary between the
T-zone and B-zone in the spleen follicle), mimicking the phenotype of
pre-activated B cells from EBI2-deficient mice. Our results show an unexpected
causal link between EBI2, an orphan G-protein-coupled receptor controlling B-cell
migration, and the known immunological effects of certain oxysterols, thus
uncovering a previously unknown role for this class of molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10226 
PMID: 21796211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):510-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10183.

Transforming binding affinities from three dimensions to two with application to 
cadherin clustering.

Wu Y(1), Vendome J, Shapiro L, Ben-Shaul A, Honig B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA.

Membrane-bound receptors often form large assemblies resulting from binding to
soluble ligands, cell-surface molecules on other cells and extracellular matrix
proteins. For example, the association of membrane proteins with proteins on
different cells (trans-interactions) can drive the oligomerization of proteins on
the same cell (cis-interactions). A central problem in understanding the
molecular basis of such phenomena is that equilibrium constants are generally
measured in three-dimensional solution and are thus difficult to relate to the
two-dimensional environment of a membrane surface. Here we present a theoretical 
treatment that converts three-dimensional affinities to two dimensions,
accounting directly for the structure and dynamics of the membrane-bound
molecules. Using a multiscale simulation approach, we apply the theory to explain
the formation of ordered, junction-like clusters by classical cadherin adhesion
proteins. The approach features atomic-scale molecular dynamics simulations to
determine interdomain flexibility, Monte Carlo simulations of multidomain motion 
and lattice simulations of junction formation. A finding of general relevance is 
that changes in interdomain motion on trans-binding have a crucial role in
driving the lateral, cis-, clustering of adhesion receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10183 
PMCID: PMC3167384
PMID: 21796210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature10283.

Carbon loss from an unprecedented Arctic tundra wildfire.

Mack MC(1), Bret-Harte MS, Hollingsworth TN, Jandt RR, Schuur EA, Shaver GR,
Verbyla DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, PO Box 118525, Gainesville,
Florida 32611, USA. mcmack@ufl.edu

Arctic tundra soils store large amounts of carbon (C) in organic soil layers
hundreds to thousands of years old that insulate, and in some cases maintain,
permafrost soils. Fire has been largely absent from most of this biome since the 
early Holocene epoch, but its frequency and extent are increasing, probably in
response to climate warming. The effect of fires on the C balance of tundra
landscapes, however, remains largely unknown. The Anaktuvuk River fire in 2007
burned 1,039 square kilometres of Alaska's Arctic slope, making it the largest
fire on record for the tundra biome and doubling the cumulative area burned since
1950 (ref. 5). Here we report that tundra ecosystems lost 2,016 ± 435 g C m(-2)
in the fire, an amount two orders of magnitude larger than annual net C exchange 
in undisturbed tundra. Sixty per cent of this C loss was from soil organic
matter, and radiocarbon dating of residual soil layers revealed that the maximum 
age of soil C lost was 50 years. Scaled to the entire burned area, the fire
released approximately 2.1 teragrams of C to the atmosphere, an amount similar in
magnitude to the annual net C sink for the entire Arctic tundra biome averaged
over the last quarter of the twentieth century. The magnitude of ecosystem C lost
by fire, relative to both ecosystem and biome-scale fluxes, demonstrates that a
climate-driven increase in tundra fire disturbance may represent a positive
feedback, potentially offsetting Arctic greening and influencing the net C
balance of the tundra biome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10283 
PMID: 21796209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):484-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10260.

Two-photon laser spectroscopy of antiprotonic helium and the
antiproton-to-electron mass ratio.

Hori M(1), Sótér A, Barna D, Dax A, Hayano R, Friedreich S, Juhász B, Pask T,
Widmann E, Horváth D, Venturelli L, Zurlo N.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D85748
Garching, Germany. masaki.hori@mpq.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):459-60.

Physical laws are believed to be invariant under the combined transformations of 
charge, parity and time reversal (CPT symmetry). This implies that an antimatter 
particle has exactly the same mass and absolute value of charge as its particle
counterpart. Metastable antiprotonic helium (pHe(+)) is a three-body atom
consisting of a normal helium nucleus, an electron in its ground state and an
antiproton (p) occupying a Rydberg state with high principal and angular momentum
quantum numbers, respectively n and l, such that n ≈ l + 1 ≈ 38. These atoms are 
amenable to precision laser spectroscopy, the results of which can in principle
be used to determine the antiproton-to-electron mass ratio and to constrain the
equality between the antiproton and proton charges and masses. Here we report
two-photon spectroscopy of antiprotonic helium, in which p(3)He(+) and p(4)He(+) 
isotopes are irradiated by two counter-propagating laser beams. This excites
nonlinear, two-photon transitions of the antiproton of the type (n, l) → (n - 2, 
l - 2) at deep-ultraviolet wavelengths (λ = 139.8, 193.0 and 197.0 nm), which
partly cancel the Doppler broadening of the laser resonance caused by the thermal
motion of the atoms. The resulting narrow spectral lines allowed us to measure
three transition frequencies with fractional precisions of 2.3-5 parts in 10(9). 
By comparing the results with three-body quantum electrodynamics calculations, we
derived an antiproton-to-electron mass ratio of 1,836.1526736(23), where the
parenthetical error represents one standard deviation. This agrees with the
proton-to-electron value known to a similar precision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10260 
PMID: 21796208 


365. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):481-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10233.

Earth's Trojan asteroid.

Connors M(1), Wiegert P, Veillet C.

Author information: 
(1)Athabasca University, 1 University Drive, Athabasca, Alberta T9S 3A3, Canada. 
martinc@athabascau.ca

It was realized in 1772 that small bodies can stably share the same orbit as a
planet if they remain near 'triangular points' 60° ahead of or behind it in the
orbit. Such 'Trojan asteroids' have been found co-orbiting with Jupiter, Mars and
Neptune. They have not hitherto been found associated with Earth, where the
viewing geometry poses difficulties for their detection, although other kinds of 
co-orbital asteroid (horseshoe orbiters and quasi-satellites) have been observed.
Here we report an archival search of infrared data for possible Earth Trojans,
producing the candidate 2010 TK(7). We subsequently made optical observations
which established that 2010 TK(7) is a Trojan companion of Earth, librating
around the leading Lagrange triangular point, L(4). Its orbit is stable over at
least ten thousand years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10233 
PMID: 21796207 


366. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):477-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10235.

Alfvénic waves with sufficient energy to power the quiet solar corona and fast
solar wind.

McIntosh SW(1), De Pontieu B, Carlsson M, Hansteen V, Boerner P, Goossens M.

Author information: 
(1)High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research, PO Box
3000, Boulder, Colorado 80307, USA. mscott@ucar.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):463-4.

Energy is required to heat the outer solar atmosphere to millions of degrees
(refs 1, 2) and to accelerate the solar wind to hundreds of kilometres per second
(refs 2-6). Alfvén waves (travelling oscillations of ions and magnetic field)
have been invoked as a possible mechanism to transport magneto-convective energy 
upwards along the Sun's magnetic field lines into the corona. Previous
observations of Alfvénic waves in the corona revealed amplitudes far too small
(0.5 km s(-1)) to supply the energy flux (100-200 W m(-2)) required to drive the 
fast solar wind or balance the radiative losses of the quiet corona. Here we
report observations of the transition region (between the chromosphere and the
corona) and of the corona that reveal how Alfvénic motions permeate the dynamic
and finely structured outer solar atmosphere. The ubiquitous outward-propagating 
Alfvénic motions observed have amplitudes of the order of 20 km s(-1) and periods
of the order of 100-500 s throughout the quiescent atmosphere (compatible with
recent investigations), and are energetic enough to accelerate the fast solar
wind and heat the quiet corona.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10235 
PMID: 21796206 


367. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):471-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10246.

Second messenger role for Mg2+ revealed by human T-cell immunodeficiency.

Li FY(1), Chaigne-Delalande B, Kanellopoulou C, Davis JC, Matthews HF, Douek DC, 
Cohen JI, Uzel G, Su HC, Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Development Section, Lymphocyte Molecular Genetics Unit, Laboratory 
of Immunology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2011 Oct;80(8):792.
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):462-3.

The magnesium ion, Mg(2+), is essential for all life as a cofactor for ATP,
polyphosphates such as DNA and RNA, and metabolic enzymes, but whether it plays a
part in intracellular signalling (as Ca(2+) does) is unknown. Here we identify
mutations in the magnesium transporter gene, MAGT1, in a novel X-linked human
immunodeficiency characterized by CD4 lymphopenia, severe chronic viral
infections, and defective T-lymphocyte activation. We demonstrate that a rapid
transient Mg(2+) influx is induced by antigen receptor stimulation in normal T
cells and by growth factor stimulation in non-lymphoid cells. MAGT1 deficiency
abrogates the Mg(2+) influx, leading to impaired responses to antigen receptor
engagement, including defective activation of phospholipase Cγ1 and a markedly
impaired Ca(2+) influx in T cells but not B cells. These observations reveal a
role for Mg(2+) as an intracellular second messenger coupling cell-surface
receptor activation to intracellular effectors and identify MAGT1 as a possible
target for novel therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10246 
PMCID: PMC3159560
PMID: 21796205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;475(7357):465-70. doi: 10.1038/nature10288.

An Archaeopteryx-like theropod from China and the origin of Avialae.

Xu X(1), You H, Du K, Han F.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Science, Linyi University, Shuangling Road, Linyi City,
Shandong 276005, China. xingxu@vip.sina.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):458-9.

Archaeopteryx is widely accepted as being the most basal bird, and accordingly it
is regarded as central to understanding avialan origins; however, recent
discoveries of derived maniraptorans have weakened the avialan status of
Archaeopteryx. Here we report a new Archaeopteryx-like theropod from China. This 
find further demonstrates that many features formerly regarded as being
diagnostic of Avialae, including long and robust forelimbs, actually characterize
the more inclusive group Paraves (composed of the avialans and the
deinonychosaurs). Notably, adding the new taxon into a comprehensive phylogenetic
analysis shifts Archaeopteryx to the Deinonychosauria. Despite only tentative
statistical support, this result challenges the centrality of Archaeopteryx in
the transition to birds. If this new phylogenetic hypothesis can be confirmed by 
further investigation, current assumptions regarding the avialan ancestral
condition will need to be re-evaluated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10288 
PMID: 21796204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;477(7363):171-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10360.

Neocortical excitation/inhibition balance in information processing and social
dysfunction.

Yizhar O(1), Fenno LE, Prigge M, Schneider F, Davidson TJ, O'Shea DJ, Sohal VS,
Goshen I, Finkelstein J, Paz JT, Stehfest K, Fudim R, Ramakrishnan C, Huguenard
JR, Hegemann P, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA. 
ofer.yizhar@weizmann.ac.il

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):165-6.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Sep;12(9):487.

Severe behavioural deficits in psychiatric diseases such as autism and
schizophrenia have been hypothesized to arise from elevations in the cellular
balance of excitation and inhibition (E/I balance) within neural microcircuitry. 
This hypothesis could unify diverse streams of pathophysiological and genetic
evidence, but has not been susceptible to direct testing. Here we design and use 
several novel optogenetic tools to causally investigate the cellular E/I balance 
hypothesis in freely moving mammals, and explore the associated circuit
physiology. Elevation, but not reduction, of cellular E/I balance within the
mouse medial prefrontal cortex was found to elicit a profound impairment in
cellular information processing, associated with specific behavioural impairments
and increased high-frequency power in the 30-80 Hz range, which have both been
observed in clinical conditions in humans. Consistent with the E/I balance
hypothesis, compensatory elevation of inhibitory cell excitability partially
rescued social deficits caused by E/I balance elevation. These results provide
support for the elevated cellular E/I balance hypothesis of severe
neuropsychiatric disease-related symptoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10360 
PMCID: PMC4155501
PMID: 21796121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;477(7362):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10285.

Transient dynamics of an altered large marine ecosystem.

Frank KT(1), Petrie B, Fisher JA, Leggett WC.

Author information: 
(1)Ocean Sciences Division, Bedford Institute of Oceanography, P.O. Box 1006,
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia B2Y 4A2, Canada. kenneth.frank@dfo-mpo.gc.ca

Overfishing of large-bodied benthic fishes and their subsequent population
collapses on the Scotian Shelf of Canada's east coast and elsewhere resulted in
restructuring of entire food webs now dominated by planktivorous, forage fish
species and macroinvertebrates. Despite the imposition of strict management
measures in force since the early 1990s, the Scotian Shelf ecosystem has not
reverted back to its former structure. Here we provide evidence of the transient 
nature of this ecosystem and its current return path towards benthic fish species
domination. The prolonged duration of the altered food web, and its current
recovery, was and is being governed by the oscillatory, runaway consumption
dynamics of the forage fish complex. These erupting forage species, which reached
biomass levels 900% greater than those prevalent during the pre-collapse years of
large benthic predators, are now in decline, having outstripped their zooplankton
food supply. This dampening, and the associated reduction in the intensity of
predation, was accompanied by lagged increases in species abundances at both
lower and higher trophic levels, first witnessed in zooplankton and then in
large-bodied predators, all consistent with a return towards the earlier
ecosystem structure. We conclude that the reversibility of perturbed ecosystems
can occur and that this bodes well for other collapsed fisheries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10285 
PMID: 21796120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;476(7360):298-303. doi: 10.1038/nature10351.

Frequent mutation of histone-modifying genes in non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Morin RD(1), Mendez-Lago M, Mungall AJ, Goya R, Mungall KL, Corbett RD, Johnson
NA, Severson TM, Chiu R, Field M, Jackman S, Krzywinski M, Scott DW, Trinh DL,
Tamura-Wells J, Li S, Firme MR, Rogic S, Griffith M, Chan S, Yakovenko O, Meyer
IM, Zhao EY, Smailus D, Moksa M, Chittaranjan S, Rimsza L, Brooks-Wilson A,
Spinelli JJ, Ben-Neriah S, Meissner B, Woolcock B, Boyle M, McDonald H, Tam A,
Zhao Y, Delaney A, Zeng T, Tse K, Butterfield Y, Birol I, Holt R, Schein J,
Horsman DE, Moore R, Jones SJ, Connors JM, Hirst M, Gascoyne RD, Marra MA.

Author information: 
(1)Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver,
British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.

Follicular lymphoma (FL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) are the two
most common non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs). Here we sequenced tumour and matched
normal DNA from 13 DLBCL cases and one FL case to identify genes with mutations
in B-cell NHL. We analysed RNA-seq data from these and another 113 NHLs to
identify genes with candidate mutations, and then re-sequenced tumour and matched
normal DNA from these cases to confirm 109 genes with multiple somatic mutations.
Genes with roles in histone modification were frequent targets of somatic
mutation. For example, 32% of DLBCL and 89% of FL cases had somatic mutations in 
MLL2, which encodes a histone methyltransferase, and 11.4% and 13.4% of DLBCL and
FL cases, respectively, had mutations in MEF2B, a calcium-regulated gene that
cooperates with CREBBP and EP300 in acetylating histones. Our analysis suggests a
previously unappreciated disruption of chromatin biology in lymphomagenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10351 
PMCID: PMC3210554
PMID: 21796119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;476(7359):210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10243.

Neuronal basis of age-related working memory decline.

Wang M(1), Gamo NJ, Yang Y, Jin LE, Wang XJ, Laubach M, Mazer JA, Lee D, Arnsten 
AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Sep;10(9):660.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Sep;12(9):490-1.

Many of the cognitive deficits of normal ageing (forgetfulness, distractibility, 
inflexibility and impaired executive functions) involve prefrontal cortex (PFC)
dysfunction. The PFC guides behaviour and thought using working memory, which are
essential functions in the information age. Many PFC neurons hold information in 
working memory through excitatory networks that can maintain persistent neuronal 
firing in the absence of external stimulation. This fragile process is highly
dependent on the neurochemical environment. For example, elevated cyclic-AMP
signalling reduces persistent firing by opening HCN and KCNQ potassium channels. 
It is not known if molecular changes associated with normal ageing alter the
physiological properties of PFC neurons during working memory, as there have been
no in vivo recordings, to our knowledge, from PFC neurons of aged monkeys. Here
we characterize the first recordings of this kind, revealing a marked loss of PFC
persistent firing with advancing age that can be rescued by restoring an optimal 
neurochemical environment. Recordings showed an age-related decline in the firing
rate of DELAY neurons, whereas the firing of CUE neurons remained unchanged with 
age. The memory-related firing of aged DELAY neurons was partially restored to
more youthful levels by inhibiting cAMP signalling, or by blocking HCN or KCNQ
channels. These findings reveal the cellular basis of age-related cognitive
decline in dorsolateral PFC, and demonstrate that physiological integrity can be 
rescued by addressing the molecular needs of PFC circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10243 
PMCID: PMC3193794
PMID: 21796118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 2011 Jul 27;476(7360):316-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10326.

An ancient recipe for flood-basalt genesis.

Jackson MG(1), Carlson RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Boston University, 675 Commonwealth Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. jacksonm@bu.edu

Large outpourings of basaltic lava have punctuated geological time, but the
mechanisms responsible for the generation of such extraordinary volumes of melt
are not well known. Recent geochemical evidence suggests that an early-formed
reservoir may have survived in the Earth's mantle for about 4.5 billion years
(ref. 2), and melts of this reservoir contributed to the flood basalt emplaced on
Baffin Island about 60 million years ago. However, the volume of this ancient
mantle domain and whether it has contributed to other flood basalts is not known.
Here we show that basalts from the largest volcanic event in geologic
history--the Ontong Java plateau--also exhibit the isotopic and trace element
signatures proposed for the early-Earth reservoir. Together with the Ontong Java 
plateau, we suggest that six of the largest volcanic events that erupted in the
past 250 million years derive from the oldest terrestrial mantle reservoir. The
association of these large volcanic events with an ancient primitive mantle
source suggests that its unique geochemical characteristics--it is both hotter
(it has greater abundances of the radioactive heat-producing elements) and more
fertile than depleted mantle reservoirs-may strongly affect the generation of
flood basalts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10326 
PMID: 21796117 


374. Nature. 2011 Jul 24;476(7360):320-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10249.

Using the Acropora digitifera genome to understand coral responses to
environmental change.

Shinzato C(1), Shoguchi E, Kawashima T, Hamada M, Hisata K, Tanaka M, Fujie M,
Fujiwara M, Koyanagi R, Ikuta T, Fujiyama A, Miller DJ, Satoh N.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Genomics Unit, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Promotion
Corporation, Onna, Okinawa 904-0412, Japan.

Despite the enormous ecological and economic importance of coral reefs, the
keystone organisms in their establishment, the scleractinian corals, increasingly
face a range of anthropogenic challenges including ocean acidification and
seawater temperature rise. To understand better the molecular mechanisms
underlying coral biology, here we decoded the approximately 420-megabase genome
of Acropora digitifera using next-generation sequencing technology. This genome
contains approximately 23,700 gene models. Molecular phylogenetics indicate that 
the coral and the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis diverged approximately 500
million years ago, considerably earlier than the time over which modern corals
are represented in the fossil record (∼240 million years ago). Despite the long
evolutionary history of the endosymbiosis, no evidence was found for horizontal
transfer of genes from symbiont to host. However, unlike several other corals,
Acropora seems to lack an enzyme essential for cysteine biosynthesis, implying
dependency of this coral on its symbionts for this amino acid. Corals inhabit
environments where they are frequently exposed to high levels of solar radiation,
and analysis of the Acropora genome data indicates that the coral host can
independently carry out de novo synthesis of mycosporine-like amino acids, which 
are potent ultraviolet-protective compounds. In addition, the coral innate
immunity repertoire is notably more complex than that of the sea anemone,
indicating that some of these genes may have roles in symbiosis or coloniality. A
number of genes with putative roles in calcification were identified, and several
of these are restricted to corals. The coral genome provides a platform for
understanding the molecular basis of symbiosis and responses to environmental
changes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10249 
PMID: 21785439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 2011 Jul 24;476(7358):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10241.

A Polycomb-based switch underlying quantitative epigenetic memory.

Angel A(1), Song J, Dean C, Howard M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computational and Systems Biology, John Innes Centre, Norwich
Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2017 Feb 21;18(3):140.

The conserved Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) generates trimethylation of
histone 3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3), a modification associated with stable epigenetic 
silencing. Much is known about PRC2-induced silencing but key questions remain
concerning its nucleation and stability. Vernalization, the perception and memory
of winter in plants, is a classic epigenetic process that, in Arabidopsis,
involves PRC2-based silencing of the floral repressor FLC. The slow dynamics of
vernalization, taking place over weeks in the cold, generate a level of stable
silencing of FLC in the subsequent warm that depends quantitatively on the length
of the prior cold. These features make vernalization an ideal experimental system
to investigate both the maintenance of epigenetic states and the switching
between them. Here, using mathematical modelling, chromatin immunoprecipitation
and an FLC:GUS reporter assay, we show that the quantitative nature of
vernalization is generated by H3K27me3-mediated FLC silencing in the warm in a
subpopulation of cells whose number depends on the length of the prior cold.
During the cold, H3K27me3 levels progressively increase at a tightly localized
nucleation region within FLC. At the end of the cold, numerical simulations
predict that such a nucleation region is capable of switching the bistable
epigenetic state of an individual locus, with the probability of overall FLC
coverage by silencing H3K27me3 marks depending on the length of cold exposure.
Thus, the model predicts a bistable pattern of FLC gene expression in individual 
cells, a prediction we verify using the FLC:GUS reporter system. Our proposed
switching mechanism, involving the local nucleation of an opposing histone
modification, is likely to be widely relevant in epigenetic reprogramming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10241 
PMID: 21785438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nature. 2011 Jul 24;476(7358):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature10257.

Mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 structure determined by NMR molecular fragment
searching.

Berardi MJ(1), Shih WM, Harrison SC, Chou JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Jack and Eileen Connors Structural Biology Laboratory, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) is an integral membrane protein in the 
mitochondrial anion carrier protein family, the members of which facilitate the
transport of small molecules across the mitochondrial inner membrane. When the
mitochondrial respiratory complex pumps protons from the mitochondrial matrix to 
the intermembrane space, it builds up an electrochemical potential. A fraction of
this electrochemical potential is dissipated as heat, in a process involving
leakage of protons back to the matrix. This leakage, or 'uncoupling' of the
proton electrochemical potential, is mediated primarily by uncoupling proteins.
However, the mechanism of UCP-mediated proton translocation across the lipid
bilayer is unknown. Here we describe a solution-NMR method for structural
characterization of UCP2. The method, which overcomes some of the challenges
associated with membrane-protein structure determination, combines orientation
restraints derived from NMR residual dipolar couplings (RDCs) and
semiquantitative distance restraints from paramagnetic relaxation enhancement
(PRE) measurements. The local and secondary structures of the protein were
determined by piecing together molecular fragments from the Protein Data Bank
that best fit experimental RDCs from samples weakly aligned in a DNA nanotube
liquid crystal. The RDCs also determine the relative orientation of the secondary
structural segments, and the PRE restraints provide their spatial arrangement in 
the tertiary fold. UCP2 closely resembles the bovine ADP/ATP carrier (the only
carrier protein of known structure), but the relative orientations of the helical
segments are different, resulting in a wider opening on the matrix side of the
inner membrane. Moreover, the nitroxide-labelled GDP binds inside the channel and
seems to be closer to transmembrane helices 1-4. We believe that this biophysical
approach can be applied to other membrane proteins and, in particular, to other
mitochondrial carriers, not only for structure determination but also to
characterize various conformational states of these proteins linked to substrate 
transport.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10257 
PMCID: PMC3150631
PMID: 21785437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):381-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10229.

Postnatal loss of Dlk1 imprinting in stem cells and niche astrocytes regulates
neurogenesis.

Ferrón SR(1), Charalambous M, Radford E, McEwen K, Wildner H, Hind E,
Morante-Redolat JM, Laborda J, Guillemot F, Bauer SR, Fariñas I, Ferguson-Smith
AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development & Neuroscience, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EG, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 21;475(7356):299-300.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Sep;12(9):489.

The gene for the atypical NOTCH ligand delta-like homologue 1 (Dlk1) encodes
membrane-bound and secreted isoforms that function in several developmental
processes in vitro and in vivo. Dlk1, a member of a cluster of imprinted genes,
is expressed from the paternally inherited chromosome. Here we show that mice
that are deficient in Dlk1 have defects in postnatal neurogenesis in the
subventricular zone: a developmental continuum that results in depletion of
mature neurons in the olfactory bulb. We show that DLK1 is secreted by niche
astrocytes, whereas its membrane-bound isoform is present in neural stem cells
(NSCs) and is required for the inductive effect of secreted DLK1 on self-renewal.
Notably, we find that there is a requirement for Dlk1 to be expressed from both
maternally and paternally inherited chromosomes. Selective absence of Dlk1
imprinting in both NSCs and niche astrocytes is associated with postnatal
acquisition of DNA methylation at the germ-line-derived imprinting control
region. The results emphasize molecular relationships between NSCs and the niche 
astrocyte cells of the microenvironment, identifying a signalling system encoded 
by a single gene that functions coordinately in both cell types. The modulation
of genomic imprinting in a stem-cell environment adds a new level of epigenetic
regulation to the establishment and maintenance of the niche, raising wider
questions about the adaptability, function and evolution of imprinting in
specific developmental contexts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10229 
PMCID: PMC3160481
PMID: 21776083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):368-72. doi: 10.1038/nature10262.

Neural network computation with DNA strand displacement cascades.

Qian L(1), Winfree E, Bruck J.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California
91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 21;475(7356):304-5.

The impressive capabilities of the mammalian brain--ranging from perception,
pattern recognition and memory formation to decision making and motor activity
control--have inspired their re-creation in a wide range of artificial
intelligence systems for applications such as face recognition, anomaly
detection, medical diagnosis and robotic vehicle control. Yet before neuron-based
brains evolved, complex biomolecular circuits provided individual cells with the 
'intelligent' behaviour required for survival. However, the study of how
molecules can 'think' has not produced an equal variety of computational models
and applications of artificial chemical systems. Although biomolecular systems
have been hypothesized to carry out neural-network-like computations in vivo and 
the synthesis of artificial chemical analogues has been proposed theoretically,
experimental work has so far fallen short of fully implementing even a single
neuron. Here, building on the richness of DNA computing and strand displacement
circuitry, we show how molecular systems can exhibit autonomous brain-like
behaviours. Using a simple DNA gate architecture that allows experimental
scale-up of multilayer digital circuits, we systematically transform arbitrary
linear threshold circuits (an artificial neural network model) into DNA strand
displacement cascades that function as small neural networks. Our approach even
allows us to implement a Hopfield associative memory with four fully connected
artificial neurons that, after training in silico, remembers four single-stranded
DNA patterns and recalls the most similar one when presented with an incomplete
pattern. Our results suggest that DNA strand displacement cascades could be used 
to endow autonomous chemical systems with the capability of recognizing patterns 
of molecular events, making decisions and responding to the environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10262 
PMID: 21776082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):348-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10242.

An integrated semiconductor device enabling non-optical genome sequencing.

Rothberg JM(1), Hinz W, Rearick TM, Schultz J, Mileski W, Davey M, Leamon JH,
Johnson K, Milgrew MJ, Edwards M, Hoon J, Simons JF, Marran D, Myers JW, Davidson
JF, Branting A, Nobile JR, Puc BP, Light D, Clark TA, Huber M, Branciforte JT,
Stoner IB, Cawley SE, Lyons M, Fu Y, Homer N, Sedova M, Miao X, Reed B, Sabina J,
Feierstein E, Schorn M, Alanjary M, Dimalanta E, Dressman D, Kasinskas R,
Sokolsky T, Fidanza JA, Namsaraev E, McKernan KJ, Williams A, Roth GT, Bustillo
J.

Author information: 
(1)Ion Torrent by Life Technologies, Suite 100, 246 Goose Lane, Guilford,
Connecticut 06437, USA. Jonathan.Rothberg@Lifetech.com

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Sep;8(9):708-9.

The seminal importance of DNA sequencing to the life sciences, biotechnology and 
medicine has driven the search for more scalable and lower-cost solutions. Here
we describe a DNA sequencing technology in which scalable, low-cost semiconductor
manufacturing techniques are used to make an integrated circuit able to directly 
perform non-optical DNA sequencing of genomes. Sequence data are obtained by
directly sensing the ions produced by template-directed DNA polymerase synthesis 
using all-natural nucleotides on this massively parallel semiconductor-sensing
device or ion chip. The ion chip contains ion-sensitive, field-effect
transistor-based sensors in perfect register with 1.2 million wells, which
provide confinement and allow parallel, simultaneous detection of independent
sequencing reactions. Use of the most widely used technology for constructing
integrated circuits, the complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) process, 
allows for low-cost, large-scale production and scaling of the device to higher
densities and larger array sizes. We show the performance of the system by
sequencing three bacterial genomes, its robustness and scalability by producing
ion chips with up to 10 times as many sensors and sequencing a human genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10242 
PMID: 21776081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):343-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10244.

Type VI secretion delivers bacteriolytic effectors to target cells.

Russell AB(1), Hood RD, Bui NK, LeRoux M, Vollmer W, Mougous JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2013 May 15;13(5):507-8.
    Nature. 2011 Jul 21;475(7356):301-3.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Sep;9(9):632.

Peptidoglycan is the major structural constituent of the bacterial cell wall,
forming a meshwork outside the cytoplasmic membrane that maintains cell shape and
prevents lysis. In Gram-negative bacteria, peptidoglycan is located in the
periplasm, where it is protected from exogenous lytic enzymes by the outer
membrane. Here we show that the type VI secretion system of Pseudomonas
aeruginosa breaches this barrier to deliver two effector proteins, Tse1 and Tse3,
to the periplasm of recipient cells. In this compartment, the effectors hydrolyse
peptidoglycan, thereby providing a fitness advantage for P. aeruginosa cells in
competition with other bacteria. To protect itself from lysis by Tse1 and Tse3,
P. aeruginosa uses specific periplasmically localized immunity proteins. The
requirement for these immunity proteins depends on intercellular
self-intoxication through an active type VI secretion system, indicating a
mechanism for export whereby effectors do not access donor cell periplasm in
transit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10244 
PMCID: PMC3146020
PMID: 21776080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):333-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10318.

Nuclear export dynamics of RNA-protein complexes.

Grünwald D(1), Singer RH, Rout M.

Author information: 
(1)Delft University of Technology, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Kavli Institute
of NanoScience, Department of Bionanoscience, 2628 CJ Delft, The Netherlands.

The central dogma of molecular biology - DNA makes RNA makes proteins - is a flow
of information that in eukaryotes encounters a physical barrier: the nuclear
envelope, which encapsulates, organizes and protects the genome. Nuclear-pore
complexes, embedded in the nuclear envelope, regulate the passage of molecules to
and from the nucleus, including the poorly understood process of the export of
RNAs from the nucleus. Recent imaging approaches focusing on single molecules
have provided unexpected insight into this crucial step in the information flow. 
This review addresses the latest studies of RNA export and presents some models
for how this complex process may work.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10318 
PMCID: PMC3154952
PMID: 21776079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):324-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10317.

Molecular chaperones in protein folding and proteostasis.

Hartl FU(1), Bracher A, Hayer-Hartl M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Am 
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany. uhartl@biochem.mpg.de

Most proteins must fold into defined three-dimensional structures to gain
functional activity. But in the cellular environment, newly synthesized proteins 
are at great risk of aberrant folding and aggregation, potentially forming toxic 
species. To avoid these dangers, cells invest in a complex network of molecular
chaperones, which use ingenious mechanisms to prevent aggregation and promote
efficient folding. Because protein molecules are highly dynamic, constant
chaperone surveillance is required to ensure protein homeostasis (proteostasis). 
Recent advances suggest that an age-related decline in proteostasis capacity
allows the manifestation of various protein-aggregation diseases, including
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Interventions in these and numerous 
other pathological states may spring from a detailed understanding of the
pathways underlying proteome maintenance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10317 
PMID: 21776078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):316-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10316.

Dynamic molecular processes mediate cellular mechanotransduction.

Hoffman BD(1), Grashoff C, Schwartz MA.

Author information: 
(1)Robert M. Berne Cardiovascular Research Center, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Cellular responses to mechanical forces are crucial in embryonic development and 
adult physiology, and are involved in numerous diseases, including
atherosclerosis, hypertension, osteoporosis, muscular dystrophy, myopathies and
cancer. These responses are mediated by load-bearing subcellular structures, such
as the plasma membrane, cell-adhesion complexes and the cytoskeleton. Recent work
has demonstrated that these structures are dynamic, undergoing assembly,
disassembly and movement, even when ostensibly stable. An emerging insight is
that transduction of forces into biochemical signals occurs within the context of
these processes. This framework helps to explain how forces of varying strengths 
or dynamic characteristics regulate distinct signalling pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10316 
PMID: 21776077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;475(7356):308-15. doi: 10.1038/nature10315.

Central dogma at the single-molecule level in living cells.

Li GW(1), Xie XS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Gene expression originates from individual DNA molecules within living cells.
Like many single-molecule processes, gene expression and regulation are
stochastic, that is, sporadic in time. This leads to heterogeneity in the
messenger-RNA and protein copy numbers in a population of cells with identical
genomes. With advanced single-cell fluorescence microscopy, it is now possible to
quantify transcriptomes and proteomes with single-molecule sensitivity. Dynamic
processes such as transcription-factor binding, transcription and translation can
be monitored in real time, providing quantitative descriptions of the central
dogma of molecular biology and the demonstration that a stochastic
single-molecule event can determine the phenotype of a cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10315 
PMCID: PMC3600414
PMID: 21776076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;476(7358):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10239.

DMRT1 prevents female reprogramming in the postnatal mammalian testis.

Matson CK(1), Murphy MW, Sarver AL, Griswold MD, Bardwell VJ, Zarkower D.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Center and Department of Genetics, Cell Biology, and
Development, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):238.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 May;187(5):1924-5.

Sex in mammals is determined in the fetal gonad by the presence or absence of the
Y chromosome gene Sry, which controls whether bipotential precursor cells
differentiate into testicular Sertoli cells or ovarian granulosa cells. This
pivotal decision in a single gonadal cell type ultimately controls sexual
differentiation throughout the body. Sex determination can be viewed as a battle 
for primacy in the fetal gonad between a male regulatory gene network in which
Sry activates Sox9 and a female network involving WNT/β-catenin signalling. In
females the primary sex-determining decision is not final: loss of the FOXL2
transcription factor in adult granulosa cells can reprogram granulosa cells into 
Sertoli cells. Here we show that sexual fate is also surprisingly labile in the
testis: loss of the DMRT1 transcription factor in mouse Sertoli cells, even in
adults, activates Foxl2 and reprograms Sertoli cells into granulosa cells. In
this environment, theca cells form, oestrogen is produced and germ cells appear
feminized. Thus Dmrt1 is essential to maintain mammalian testis determination,
and competing regulatory networks maintain gonadal sex long after the fetal
choice between male and female. Dmrt1 and Foxl2 are conserved throughout
vertebrates and Dmrt1-related sexual regulators are conserved throughout
metazoans. Antagonism between Dmrt1 and Foxl2 for control of gonadal sex may
therefore extend beyond mammals. Reprogramming due to loss of Dmrt1 also may help
explain the aetiology of human syndromes linked to DMRT1, including disorders of 
sexual differentiation and testicular cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10239 
PMCID: PMC3150961
PMID: 21775990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;476(7358):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10314.

Decoherence in crystals of quantum molecular magnets.

Takahashi S(1), Tupitsyn IS, van Tol J, Beedle CC, Hendrickson DN, Stamp PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
California 90089, USA.

Quantum decoherence is a central concept in physics. Applications such as quantum
information processing depend on understanding it; there are even fundamental
theories proposed that go beyond quantum mechanics, in which the breakdown of
quantum theory would appear as an 'intrinsic' decoherence, mimicking the more
familiar environmental decoherence processes. Such applications cannot be
optimized, and such theories cannot be tested, until we have a firm handle on
ordinary environmental decoherence processes. Here we show that the theory for
insulating electronic spin systems can make accurate and testable predictions for
environmental decoherence in molecular-based quantum magnets. Experiments on
molecular magnets have successfully demonstrated quantum-coherent phenomena but
the decoherence processes that ultimately limit such behaviour were not well
constrained. For molecular magnets, theory predicts three principal contributions
to environmental decoherence: from phonons, from nuclear spins and from
intermolecular dipolar interactions. We use high magnetic fields on single
crystals of Fe(8) molecular magnets (in which the Fe ions are surrounded by
organic ligands) to suppress dipolar and nuclear-spin decoherence. In these
high-field experiments, we find that the decoherence time varies strongly as a
function of temperature and magnetic field. The theoretical predictions are fully
verified experimentally, and there are no other visible decoherence sources. In
these high fields, we obtain a maximum decoherence quality-factor of
1.49 × 10(6); our investigation suggests that the environmental decoherence time 
can be extended up to about 500 microseconds, with a decoherence quality factor
of ∼6 × 10(7), by optimizing the temperature, magnetic field and nuclear isotopic
concentrations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10314 
PMID: 21775988 


387. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;476(7359):170-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10336.

The landscape of recombination in African Americans.

Hinch AG(1), Tandon A, Patterson N, Song Y, Rohland N, Palmer CD, Chen GK, Wang
K, Buxbaum SG, Akylbekova EL, Aldrich MC, Ambrosone CB, Amos C, Bandera EV,
Berndt SI, Bernstein L, Blot WJ, Bock CH, Boerwinkle E, Cai Q, Caporaso N, Casey 
G, Cupples LA, Deming SL, Diver WR, Divers J, Fornage M, Gillanders EM, Glessner 
J, Harris CC, Hu JJ, Ingles SA, Isaacs W, John EM, Kao WH, Keating B, Kittles RA,
Kolonel LN, Larkin E, Le Marchand L, McNeill LH, Millikan RC, Murphy A, Musani S,
Neslund-Dudas C, Nyante S, Papanicolaou GJ, Press MF, Psaty BM, Reiner AP, Rich
SS, Rodriguez-Gil JL, Rotter JI, Rybicki BA, Schwartz AG, Signorello LB, Spitz M,
Strom SS, Thun MJ, Tucker MA, Wang Z, Wiencke JK, Witte JS, Wrensch M, Wu X,
Yamamura Y, Zanetti KA, Zheng W, Ziegler RG, Zhu X, Redline S, Hirschhorn JN,
Henderson BE, Taylor HA Jr, Price AL, Hakonarson H, Chanock SJ, Haiman CA, Wilson
JG, Reich D, Myers SR.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Oxford University, Roosevelt Drive, 
Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Sep;12(9):585.

Recombination, together with mutation, gives rise to genetic variation in
populations. Here we leverage the recent mixture of people of African and
European ancestry in the Americas to build a genetic map measuring the
probability of crossing over at each position in the genome, based on about 2.1
million crossovers in 30,000 unrelated African Americans. At intervals of more
than three megabases it is nearly identical to a map built in Europeans. At finer
scales it differs significantly, and we identify about 2,500 recombination
hotspots that are active in people of West African ancestry but nearly inactive
in Europeans. The probability of a crossover at these hotspots is almost fully
controlled by the alleles an individual carries at PRDM9 (P value < 10(-245)). We
identify a 17-base-pair DNA sequence motif that is enriched in these hotspots,
and is an excellent match to the predicted binding target of PRDM9 alleles common
in West Africans and rare in Europeans. Sites of this motif are predicted to be
risk loci for disease-causing genomic rearrangements in individuals carrying
these alleles. More generally, this map provides a resource for research in human
genetic variation and evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10336 
PMCID: PMC3154982
PMID: 21775986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2011 Jul 20;476(7360):328-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10278.

Collaboration encourages equal sharing in children but not in chimpanzees.

Hamann K(1), Warneken F, Greenberg JR, Tomasello M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Department of
Developmental and Comparative Psychology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig,
Germany. khamann@eva.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 18;476(7360):289.

Humans actively share resources with one another to a much greater degree than do
other great apes, and much human sharing is governed by social norms of fairness 
and equity. When in receipt of a windfall of resources, human children begin
showing tendencies towards equitable distribution with others at five to seven
years of age. Arguably, however, the primordial situation for human sharing of
resources is that which follows cooperative activities such as collaborative
foraging, when several individuals must share the spoils of their joint efforts. 
Here we show that children of around three years of age share with others much
more equitably in collaborative activities than they do in either windfall or
parallel-work situations. By contrast, one of humans' two nearest primate
relatives, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), 'share' (make food available to another
individual) just as often whether they have collaborated with them or not. This
species difference raises the possibility that humans' tendency to distribute
resources equitably may have its evolutionary roots in the sharing of spoils
after collaborative efforts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10278 
PMID: 21775985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 2011 Jul 19;477(7366):549-55. doi: 10.1038/nature10361.

Crystal structure of the β2 adrenergic receptor-Gs protein complex.

Rasmussen SG(1), DeVree BT, Zou Y, Kruse AC, Chung KY, Kobilka TS, Thian FS, Chae
PS, Pardon E, Calinski D, Mathiesen JM, Shah ST, Lyons JA, Caffrey M, Gellman SH,
Steyaert J, Skiniotis G, Weis WI, Sunahara RK, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):540-1.

G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are responsible for the majority of cellular 
responses to hormones and neurotransmitters as well as the senses of sight,
olfaction and taste. The paradigm of GPCR signalling is the activation of a
heterotrimeric GTP binding protein (G protein) by an agonist-occupied receptor.
The β(2) adrenergic receptor (β(2)AR) activation of Gs, the stimulatory G protein
for adenylyl cyclase, has long been a model system for GPCR signalling. Here we
present the crystal structure of the active state ternary complex composed of
agonist-occupied monomeric β(2)AR and nucleotide-free Gs heterotrimer. The
principal interactions between the β(2)AR and Gs involve the amino- and
carboxy-terminal α-helices of Gs, with conformational changes propagating to the 
nucleotide-binding pocket. The largest conformational changes in the β(2)AR
include a 14 Å outward movement at the cytoplasmic end of transmembrane segment 6
(TM6) and an α-helical extension of the cytoplasmic end of TM5. The most
surprising observation is a major displacement of the α-helical domain of Gαs
relative to the Ras-like GTPase domain. This crystal structure represents the
first high-resolution view of transmembrane signalling by a GPCR.

© 2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10361 
PMCID: PMC3184188
PMID: 21772288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2011 Jul 17;475(7357):514-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10228.

Control of TH17 cells occurs in the small intestine.

Esplugues E(1), Huber S, Gagliani N, Hauser AE, Town T, Wan YY, O'Connor W Jr,
Rongvaux A, Van Rooijen N, Haberman AM, Iwakura Y, Kuchroo VK, Kolls JK,
Bluestone JA, Herold KC, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA. enric.esplugues@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Sep;11(9):568.

Interleukin (IL)-17-producing T helper cells (T(H)17) are a recently identified
CD4(+) T cell subset distinct from T helper type 1 (T(H)1) and T helper type 2
(T(H)2) cells. T(H)17 cells can drive antigen-specific autoimmune diseases and
are considered the main population of pathogenic T cells driving experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the mouse model for multiple sclerosis. The
factors that are needed for the generation of T(H)17 cells have been well
characterized. However, where and how the immune system controls T(H)17 cells in 
vivo remains unclear. Here, by using a model of tolerance induced by CD3-specific
antibody, a model of sepsis and influenza A viral infection (H1N1), we show that 
pro-inflammatory T(H)17 cells can be redirected to and controlled in the small
intestine. T(H)17-specific IL-17A secretion induced expression of the chemokine
CCL20 in the small intestine, facilitating the migration of these cells
specifically to the small intestine via the CCR6/CCL20 axis. Moreover, we found
that T(H)17 cells are controlled by two different mechanisms in the small
intestine: first, they are eliminated via the intestinal lumen; second,
pro-inflammatory T(H)17 cells simultaneously acquire a regulatory phenotype with 
in vitro and in vivo immune-suppressive properties (rT(H)17). These results
identify mechanisms limiting T(H)17 cell pathogenicity and implicate the
gastrointestinal tract as a site for control of T(H)17 cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10228 
PMCID: PMC3148838
PMID: 21765430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2011 Jul 17;476(7358):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10206.

Photoentrainment and pupillary light reflex are mediated by distinct populations 
of ipRGCs.

Chen SK(1), Badea TC, Hattar S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218,
USA.

Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) express the
photopigment melanopsin and regulate a wide array of light-dependent
physiological processes. Genetic ablation of ipRGCs eliminates circadian
photoentrainment and severely disrupts the pupillary light reflex (PLR). Here we 
show that ipRGCs consist of distinct subpopulations that differentially express
the Brn3b transcription factor, and can be functionally distinguished.
Brn3b-negative M1 ipRGCs innervate the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the
hypothalamus, whereas Brn3b-positive ipRGCs innervate all other known brain
targets, including the olivary pretectal nucleus. Consistent with these
innervation patterns, selective ablation of Brn3b-positive ipRGCs severely
disrupts the PLR, but does not impair circadian photoentrainment. Thus, we find
that molecularly distinct subpopulations of M1 ipRGCs, which are morphologically 
and electrophysiologically similar, innervate different brain regions to execute 
specific light-induced functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10206 
PMCID: PMC3150726
PMID: 21765429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 2011 Jul 17;475(7357):528-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10218.

The crystal structure of GXGD membrane protease FlaK.

Hu J(1), Xue Y, Lee S, Ha Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Yale School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

The GXGD proteases are polytopic membrane proteins with catalytic activities
against membrane-spanning substrates that require a pair of aspartyl residues.
Representative members of the family include preflagellin peptidase, type 4
prepilin peptidase, presenilin and signal peptide peptidase. Many GXGD proteases 
are important in medicine. For example, type 4 prepilin peptidase may contribute 
to bacterial pathogenesis, and mutations in presenilin are associated with
Alzheimer's disease. As yet, there is no atomic-resolution structure in this
protease family. Here we report the crystal structure of FlaK, a preflagellin
peptidase from Methanococcus maripaludis, solved at 3.6 Å resolution. The
structure contains six transmembrane helices. The GXGD motif and a short
transmembrane helix, helix 4, are positioned at the centre, surrounded by other
transmembrane helices. The crystal structure indicates that the protease must
undergo conformational changes to bring the GXGD motif and a second essential
aspartyl residue from transmembrane helix 1 into close proximity for catalysis. A
comparison of the crystal structure with models of presenilin derived from
biochemical analysis reveals three common transmembrane segments that are
similarly arranged around the active site. This observation reinforces the idea
that the prokaryotic and human proteases are evolutionarily related. The crystal 
structure presented here provides a framework for understanding the mechanism of 
the GXGD proteases, and may facilitate the rational design of inhibitors that
target specific members of the family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10218 
PMCID: PMC3894692
PMID: 21765428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2011 Jul 17;476(7359):236-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10248.

A two-step chemical mechanism for ribosome-catalysed peptide bond formation.

Hiller DA(1), Singh V, Zhong M, Strobel SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

The chemical step of natural protein synthesis, peptide bond formation, is
catalysed by the large subunit of the ribosome. Crystal structures have shown
that the active site for peptide bond formation is composed entirely of RNA.
Recent work has focused on how an RNA active site is able to catalyse this
fundamental biological reaction at a suitable rate for protein synthesis. On the 
basis of the absence of important ribosomal functional groups, lack of a
dependence on pH, and the dominant contribution of entropy to catalysis, it has
been suggested that the role of the ribosome is limited to bringing the
substrates into close proximity. Alternatively, the importance of the 2'-hydroxyl
of the peptidyl-transfer RNA and a Brønsted coefficient near zero have been taken
as evidence that the ribosome coordinates a proton-transfer network. Here we
report the transition state of peptide bond formation, based on analysis of the
kinetic isotope effect at five positions within the reaction centre of a
peptidyl-transfer RNA mimic. Our results indicate that in contrast to the
uncatalysed reaction, formation of the tetrahedral intermediate and proton
transfer from the nucleophilic nitrogen both occur in the rate-limiting step.
Unlike in previous proposals, the reaction is not fully concerted; instead,
breakdown of the tetrahedral intermediate occurs in a separate fast step. This
suggests that in addition to substrate positioning, the ribosome is contributing 
to chemical catalysis by changing the rate-limiting transition state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10248 
PMCID: PMC3154986
PMID: 21765427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10216.

Low-energy control of electrical turbulence in the heart.

Luther S(1), Fenton FH, Kornreich BG, Squires A, Bittihn P, Hornung D, Zabel M,
Flanders J, Gladuli A, Campoy L, Cherry EM, Luther G, Hasenfuss G, Krinsky VI,
Pumir A, Gilmour RF Jr, Bodenschatz E.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organization, Am Fassberg 17,
D-37077 Göttingen, Germany. stefan.luther@ds.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):181-2.

Controlling the complex spatio-temporal dynamics underlying life-threatening
cardiac arrhythmias such as fibrillation is extremely difficult, because of the
nonlinear interaction of excitation waves in a heterogeneous anatomical
substrate. In the absence of a better strategy, strong, globally resetting
electrical shocks remain the only reliable treatment for cardiac fibrillation.
Here we establish the relationship between the response of the tissue to an
electric field and the spatial distribution of heterogeneities in the scale-free 
coronary vascular structure. We show that in response to a pulsed electric field,
E, these heterogeneities serve as nucleation sites for the generation of
intramural electrical waves with a source density ρ(E) and a characteristic time,
τ, for tissue depolarization that obeys the power law τ ∝ E(α). These intramural 
wave sources permit targeting of electrical turbulence near the cores of the
vortices of electrical activity that drive complex fibrillatory dynamics. We show
in vitro that simultaneous and direct access to multiple vortex cores results in 
rapid synchronization of cardiac tissue and therefore, efficient termination of
fibrillation. Using this control strategy, we demonstrate low-energy termination 
of fibrillation in vivo. Our results give new insights into the mechanisms and
dynamics underlying the control of spatio-temporal chaos in heterogeneous
excitable media and provide new research perspectives towards alternative,
life-saving low-energy defibrillation techniques.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10216 
PMCID: PMC3153959
PMID: 21753855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):231-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10167.

Selective killing of cancer cells by a small molecule targeting the stress
response to ROS.

Raj L(1), Ide T, Gurkar AU, Foley M, Schenone M, Li X, Tolliday NJ, Golub TR,
Carr SA, Shamji AF, Stern AM, Mandinova A, Schreiber SL, Lee SW.

Author information: 
(1)Cutaneous Biology Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Building 149 13th Street, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):534.
    Nature. 2015 Oct 22;526(7574):596.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2018 Sep;561(7723):420.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Sep;11(9):622-3.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Sep;10(9):658.

Malignant transformation, driven by gain-of-function mutations in oncogenes and
loss-of-function mutations in tumour suppressor genes, results in cell
deregulation that is frequently associated with enhanced cellular stress (for
example, oxidative, replicative, metabolic and proteotoxic stress, and DNA
damage). Adaptation to this stress phenotype is required for cancer cells to
survive, and consequently cancer cells may become dependent upon non-oncogenes
that do not ordinarily perform such a vital function in normal cells. Thus,
targeting these non-oncogene dependencies in the context of a transformed
genotype may result in a synthetic lethal interaction and the selective death of 
cancer cells. Here we used a cell-based small-molecule screening and quantitative
proteomics approach that resulted in the unbiased identification of a small
molecule that selectively kills cancer cells but not normal cells. Piperlongumine
increases the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and apoptotic cell death in 
both cancer cells and normal cells engineered to have a cancer genotype,
irrespective of p53 status, but it has little effect on either rapidly or slowly 
dividing primary normal cells. Significant antitumour effects are observed in
piperlongumine-treated mouse xenograft tumour models, with no apparent toxicity
in normal mice. Moreover, piperlongumine potently inhibits the growth of
spontaneously formed malignant breast tumours and their associated metastases in 
mice. Our results demonstrate the ability of a small molecule to induce apoptosis
selectively in cells that have a cancer genotype, by targeting a non-oncogene
co-dependency acquired through the expression of the cancer genotype in response 
to transformation-induced oxidative stress.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10167 
PMCID: PMC3316487
PMID: 21753854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):226-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10169.

Tumour hypoxia promotes tolerance and angiogenesis via CCL28 and T(reg) cells.

Facciabene A(1), Peng X, Hagemann IS, Balint K, Barchetti A, Wang LP, Gimotty PA,
Gilks CB, Lal P, Zhang L, Coukos G.

Author information: 
(1)Ovarian Cancer Research Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Immunotherapy. 2011 Dec;3(12):1429.

Although immune mechanisms can suppress tumour growth, tumours establish potent, 
overlapping mechanisms that mediate immune evasion. Emerging evidence suggests a 
link between angiogenesis and the tolerance of tumours to immune mechanisms.
Hypoxia, a condition that is known to drive angiogenesis in tumours, results in
the release of damage-associated pattern molecules, which can trigger the
rejection of tumours by the immune system. Thus, the counter-activation of
tolerance mechanisms at the site of tumour hypoxia would be a crucial condition
for maintaining the immunological escape of tumours. However, a direct link
between tumour hypoxia and tolerance through the recruitment of regulatory cells 
has not been established. We proposed that tumour hypoxia induces the expression 
of chemotactic factors that promote tolerance. Here we show that tumour hypoxia
promotes the recruitment of regulatory T (T(reg)) cells through induction of
expression of the chemokine CC-chemokine ligand 28 (CCL28), which, in turn,
promotes tumour tolerance and angiogenesis. Thus, peripheral immune tolerance and
angiogenesis programs are closely connected and cooperate to sustain tumour
growth.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10169 
PMID: 21753853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):214-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10176.

Increased soil emissions of potent greenhouse gases under increased atmospheric
CO2.

van Groenigen KJ(1), Osenberg CW, Hungate BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff,
Arizona 86011, USA. cjvangroenigen@nau.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):177-8.

Increasing concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO(2)) can affect biotic
and abiotic conditions in soil, such as microbial activity and water content. In 
turn, these changes might be expected to alter the production and consumption of 
the important greenhouse gases nitrous oxide (N(2)O) and methane (CH(4)) (refs 2,
3). However, studies on fluxes of N(2)O and CH(4) from soil under increased
atmospheric CO(2) have not been quantitatively synthesized. Here we show, using
meta-analysis, that increased CO(2) (ranging from 463 to 780 parts per million by
volume) stimulates both N(2)O emissions from upland soils and CH(4) emissions
from rice paddies and natural wetlands. Because enhanced greenhouse-gas emissions
add to the radiative forcing of terrestrial ecosystems, these emissions are
expected to negate at least 16.6 per cent of the climate change mitigation
potential previously predicted from an increase in the terrestrial carbon sink
under increased atmospheric CO(2) concentrations. Our results therefore suggest
that the capacity of land ecosystems to slow climate warming has been
overestimated.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10176 
PMID: 21753852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10225.

Measurement of the internal state of a single atom without energy exchange.

Volz J(1), Gehr R, Dubois G, Estève J, Reichel J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Kastler-Brossel, ENS, CNRS, Université Pierre et Marie Curie -
Paris 6, 24 rue Lhomond, 75005 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):180-1.

A measurement necessarily changes the quantum state being measured, a phenomenon 
known as back-action. Real measurements, however, almost always cause a much
stronger back-action than is required by the laws of quantum mechanics. Quantum
non-demolition measurements have been devised that keep the additional
back-action entirely within observables other than the one being measured.
However, this back-action on other observables often imposes its own constraints.
In particular, free-space optical detection methods for single atoms and ions
(such as the shelving technique, a sensitive and well-developed method)
inevitably require spontaneous scattering, even in the dispersive regime. This
causes irreversible energy exchange (heating), which is a limitation in
atom-based quantum information processing, where it obviates straightforward
reuse of the qubit. No such energy exchange is required by quantum mechanics.
Here we experimentally demonstrate optical detection of an atomic qubit with
significantly less than one spontaneous scattering event. We measure the
transmission and reflection of an optical cavity containing the atom. In addition
to the qubit detection itself, we quantitatively measure how much spontaneous
scattering has occurred. This allows us to relate the information gained to the
amount of spontaneous emission, and we obtain a detection error below 10 per cent
while scattering less than 0.2 photons on average. Furthermore, we perform a
quantum Zeno-type experiment to quantify the measurement back-action, and find
that every incident photon leads to an almost complete state collapse. Together, 
these results constitute a full experimental characterization of a quantum
measurement in the 'energy exchange-free' regime below a single spontaneous
emission event. Besides its fundamental interest, this approach could
significantly simplify proposed neutral-atom quantum computation schemes, and may
enable sensitive detection of molecules and atoms lacking closed transitions.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10225 
PMID: 21753851 


399. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):201-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10198.

Dicer recognizes the 5' end of RNA for efficient and accurate processing.

Park JE(1), Heo I, Tian Y, Simanshu DK, Chang H, Jee D, Patel DJ, Kim VN.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742,
Korea.

A hallmark of RNA silencing is a class of approximately 22-nucleotide RNAs that
are processed from double-stranded RNA precursors by Dicer. Accurate processing
by Dicer is crucial for the functionality of microRNAs (miRNAs). The current
model posits that Dicer selects cleavage sites by measuring a set distance from
the 3' overhang of the double-stranded RNA terminus. Here we report that human
Dicer anchors not only the 3' end but also the 5' end, with the cleavage site
determined mainly by the distance (∼22 nucleotides) from the 5' end (5' counting 
rule). This cleavage requires a 5'-terminal phosphate group. Further, we identify
a novel basic motif (5' pocket) in human Dicer that recognizes the
5'-phosphorylated end. The 5' counting rule and the 5' anchoring residues are
conserved in Drosophila Dicer-1, but not in Giardia Dicer. Mutations in the 5'
pocket reduce processing efficiency and alter cleavage sites in vitro.
Consistently, miRNA biogenesis is perturbed in vivo when Dicer-null embryonic
stem cells are replenished with the 5'-pocket mutant. Thus, 5'-end recognition by
Dicer is important for precise and effective biogenesis of miRNAs. Insights from 
this study should also afford practical benefits to the design of small hairpin
RNAs.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10198 
PMCID: PMC4693635
PMID: 21753850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):196-200. doi: 10.1038/nature10199.

Functional regeneration of respiratory pathways after spinal cord injury.

Alilain WJ(1), Horn KP, Hu H, Dick TE, Silver J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University School of
Medicine, 2109 Adelbert Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA. wja4@case.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):177-8.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2011 Sep;7(9):473.

Spinal cord injuries often occur at the cervical level above the phrenic motor
pools, which innervate the diaphragm. The effects of impaired breathing are a
leading cause of death from spinal cord injuries, underscoring the importance of 
developing strategies to restore respiratory activity. Here we show that, after
cervical spinal cord injury, the expression of chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans
(CSPGs) associated with the perineuronal net (PNN) is upregulated around the
phrenic motor neurons. Digestion of these potently inhibitory extracellular
matrix molecules with chondroitinase ABC (denoted ChABC) could, by itself,
promote the plasticity of tracts that were spared and restore limited activity to
the paralysed diaphragm. However, when combined with a peripheral nerve
autograft, ChABC treatment resulted in lengthy regeneration of
serotonin-containing axons and other bulbospinal fibres and remarkable recovery
of diaphragmatic function. After recovery and initial transection of the graft
bridge, there was an unusual, overall increase in tonic electromyographic
activity of the diaphragm, suggesting that considerable remodelling of the spinal
cord circuitry occurs after regeneration. This increase was followed by complete 
elimination of the restored activity, proving that regeneration is crucial for
the return of function. Overall, these experiments present a way to markedly
restore the function of a single muscle after debilitating trauma to the central 
nervous system, through both promoting the plasticity of spared tracts and
regenerating essential pathways.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10199 
PMCID: PMC3163458
PMID: 21753849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7355):183-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10232.

Collective synthesis of natural products by means of organocascade catalysis.

Jones SB(1), Simmons B, Mastracchio A, MacMillan DW.

Author information: 
(1)Merck Center for Catalysis at Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA.

Organic chemists are now able to synthesize small quantities of almost any known 
natural product, given sufficient time, resources and effort. However,
translation of the academic successes in total synthesis to the large-scale
construction of complex natural products and the development of large collections
of biologically relevant molecules present significant challenges to synthetic
chemists. Here we show that the application of two nature-inspired techniques,
namely organocascade catalysis and collective natural product synthesis, can
facilitate the preparation of useful quantities of a range of structurally
diverse natural products from a common molecular scaffold. The power of this
concept has been demonstrated through the expedient, asymmetric total syntheses
of six well-known alkaloid natural products: strychnine, aspidospermidine,
vincadifformine, akuammicine, kopsanone and kopsinine.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10232 
PMCID: PMC3439143
PMID: 21753848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;476(7359):228-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10323.

MicroRNA-mediated conversion of human fibroblasts to neurons.

Yoo AS(1), Sun AX, Li L, Shcheglovitov A, Portmann T, Li Y, Lee-Messer C,
Dolmetsch RE, Tsien RW, Crabtree GR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Developmental Biology,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA. yooa@wustl.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):158-9.

Neurogenic transcription factors and evolutionarily conserved signalling pathways
have been found to be instrumental in the formation of neurons. However, the
instructive role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in neurogenesis remains unexplored. We
recently discovered that miR-9* and miR-124 instruct compositional changes of
SWI/SNF-like BAF chromatin-remodelling complexes, a process important for
neuronal differentiation and function. Nearing mitotic exit of neural
progenitors, miR-9* and miR-124 repress the BAF53a subunit of the
neural-progenitor (np)BAF chromatin-remodelling complex. After mitotic exit,
BAF53a is replaced by BAF53b, and BAF45a by BAF45b and BAF45c, which are then
incorporated into neuron-specific (n)BAF complexes essential for post-mitotic
functions. Because miR-9/9* and miR-124 also control multiple genes regulating
neuronal differentiation and function, we proposed that these miRNAs might
contribute to neuronal fates. Here we show that expression of miR-9/9* and
miR-124 (miR-9/9*-124) in human fibroblasts induces their conversion into
neurons, a process facilitated by NEUROD2. Further addition of neurogenic
transcription factors ASCL1 and MYT1L enhances the rate of conversion and the
maturation of the converted neurons, whereas expression of these transcription
factors alone without miR-9/9*-124 was ineffective. These studies indicate that
the genetic circuitry involving miR-9/9*-124 can have an instructive role in
neural fate determination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10323 
PMCID: PMC3348862
PMID: 21753754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7357):493-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10231.

Inference of human population history from individual whole-genome sequences.

Li H(1), Durbin R.

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.

The history of human population size is important for understanding human
evolution. Various studies have found evidence for a founder event (bottleneck)
in East Asian and European populations, associated with the human dispersal
out-of-Africa event around 60 thousand years (kyr) ago. However, these studies
have had to assume simplified demographic models with few parameters, and they do
not provide a precise date for the start and stop times of the bottleneck. Here, 
with fewer assumptions on population size changes, we present a more detailed
history of human population sizes between approximately ten thousand and a
million years ago, using the pairwise sequentially Markovian coalescent model
applied to the complete diploid genome sequences of a Chinese male (YH), a Korean
male (SJK), three European individuals (J. C. Venter, NA12891 and NA12878 (ref.
9)) and two Yoruba males (NA18507 (ref. 10) and NA19239). We infer that European 
and Chinese populations had very similar population-size histories before
10-20 kyr ago. Both populations experienced a severe bottleneck 10-60 kyr ago,
whereas African populations experienced a milder bottleneck from which they
recovered earlier. All three populations have an elevated effective population
size between 60 and 250 kyr ago, possibly due to population substructure. We also
infer that the differentiation of genetically modern humans may have started as
early as 100-120 kyr ago, but considerable genetic exchanges may still have
occurred until 20-40 kyr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10231 
PMCID: PMC3154645
PMID: 21753753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7356):364-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10313.

Inkjet printing of single-crystal films.

Minemawari H(1), Yamada T, Matsui H, Tsutsumi J, Haas S, Chiba R, Kumai R,
Hasegawa T.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, AIST Tsukuba
Central 4, Tsukuba 305-8562, Japan.

The use of single crystals has been fundamental to the development of
semiconductor microelectronics and solid-state science. Whether based on
inorganic or organic materials, the devices that show the highest performance
rely on single-crystal interfaces, with their nearly perfect translational
symmetry and exceptionally high chemical purity. Attention has recently been
focused on developing simple ways of producing electronic devices by means of
printing technologies. 'Printed electronics' is being explored for the
manufacture of large-area and flexible electronic devices by the patterned
application of functional inks containing soluble or dispersed semiconducting
materials. However, because of the strong self-organizing tendency of the
deposited materials, the production of semiconducting thin films of high
crystallinity (indispensable for realizing high carrier mobility) may be
incompatible with conventional printing processes. Here we develop a method that 
combines the technique of antisolvent crystallization with inkjet printing to
produce organic semiconducting thin films of high crystallinity. Specifically, we
show that mixing fine droplets of an antisolvent and a solution of an active
semiconducting component within a confined area on an amorphous substrate can
trigger the controlled formation of exceptionally uniform single-crystal or
polycrystalline thin films that grow at the liquid-air interfaces. Using this
approach, we have printed single crystals of the organic semiconductor
2,7-dioctyl[1]benzothieno[3,2-b][1]benzothiophene (C(8)-BTBT) (ref. 15), yielding
thin-film transistors with average carrier mobilities as high as
16.4 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1). This printing technique constitutes a major step towards 
the use of high-performance single-crystal semiconductor devices for large-area
and flexible electronics applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10313 
PMID: 21753752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7356):398-402. doi: 10.1038/nature10182.

The ELF4-ELF3-LUX complex links the circadian clock to diurnal control of
hypocotyl growth.

Nusinow DA(1), Helfer A, Hamilton EE, King JJ, Imaizumi T, Schultz TF, Farré EM, 
Kay SA.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Cell & Developmental Biology, Division of Biological Sciences,
University of California San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California
92093-0130, USA.

The circadian clock is required for adaptive responses to daily and seasonal
changes in environmental conditions. Light and the circadian clock interact to
consolidate the phase of hypocotyl cell elongation to peak at dawn under diurnal 
cycles in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here we identify a protein complex (called the
evening complex)--composed of the proteins encoded by EARLY FLOWERING 3 (ELF3),
ELF4 and the transcription-factor-encoding gene LUX ARRHYTHMO (LUX; also known as
PHYTOCLOCK 1)--that directly regulates plant growth. ELF3 is both necessary and
sufficient to form a complex between ELF4 and LUX, and the complex is diurnally
regulated, peaking at dusk. ELF3, ELF4 and LUX are required for the proper
expression of the growth-promoting transcription factors encoded by PHYTOCHROME
INTERACTING FACTOR 4 (PIF4) and PIF5 (also known as PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING
FACTOR 3-LIKE 6) under diurnal conditions. LUX targets the complex to the
promoters of PIF4 and PIF5 in vivo. Mutations in PIF4 and/or PIF5 are epistatic
to the loss of the ELF4-ELF3-LUX complex, suggesting that regulation of PIF4 and 
PIF5 is a crucial function of the complex. Therefore, the evening complex
underlies the molecular basis for circadian gating of hypocotyl growth in the
early evening.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10182 
PMCID: PMC3155984
PMID: 21753751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 2011 Jul 13;475(7356):408-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10171.

Multi-domain conformational selection underlies pre-mRNA splicing regulation by
U2AF.

Mackereth CD(1), Madl T, Bonnal S, Simon B, Zanier K, Gasch A, Rybin V, Valcárcel
J, Sattler M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Structural Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, Ingolstädter
Landstrasse 1, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany.

Many cellular functions involve multi-domain proteins, which are composed of
structurally independent modules connected by flexible linkers. Although it is
often well understood how a given domain recognizes a cognate oligonucleotide or 
peptide motif, the dynamic interaction of multiple domains in the recognition of 
these ligands remains to be characterized. Here we have studied the molecular
mechanisms of the recognition of the 3'-splice-site-associated polypyrimidine
tract RNA by the large subunit of the human U2 snRNP auxiliary factor (U2AF65) as
a key early step in pre-mRNA splicing. We show that the tandem RNA recognition
motif domains of U2AF65 adopt two remarkably distinct domain arrangements in the 
absence or presence of a strong (that is, high affinity) polypyrimidine tract.
Recognition of sequence variations in the polypyrimidine tract RNA involves a
population shift between these closed and open conformations. The equilibrium
between the two conformations functions as a molecular rheostat that
quantitatively correlates the natural variations in polypyrimidine tract
nucleotide composition, length and functional strength to the efficiency to
recruit U2 snRNP to the intron during spliceosome assembly. Mutations that shift 
the conformational equilibrium without directly affecting RNA binding modulate
splicing activity accordingly. Similar mechanisms of cooperative multi-domain
conformational selection may operate more generally in the recognition of
degenerate nucleotide or amino acid motifs by multi-domain proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10171 
PMID: 21753750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Nature. 2011 Jul 10;475(7356):353-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10238.

The crystal structure of a voltage-gated sodium channel.

Payandeh J(1), Scheuer T, Zheng N, Catterall WA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 21;475(7356):305-6.

Voltage-gated sodium (Na(V)) channels initiate electrical signalling in excitable
cells and are the molecular targets for drugs and disease mutations, but the
structural basis for their voltage-dependent activation, ion selectivity and drug
block is unknown. Here we report the crystal structure of a voltage-gated Na(+)
channel from Arcobacter butzleri (NavAb) captured in a closed-pore conformation
with four activated voltage sensors at 2.7 Å resolution. The arginine gating
charges make multiple hydrophilic interactions within the voltage sensor,
including unanticipated hydrogen bonds to the protein backbone. Comparisons to
previous open-pore potassium channel structures indicate that the voltage-sensor 
domains and the S4-S5 linkers dilate the central pore by pivoting together around
a hinge at the base of the pore module. The NavAb selectivity filter is short,
∼4.6 Å wide, and water filled, with four acidic side chains surrounding the
narrowest part of the ion conduction pathway. This unique structure presents a
high-field-strength anionic coordination site, which confers Na(+) selectivity
through partial dehydration via direct interaction with glutamate side chains.
Fenestrations in the sides of the pore module are unexpectedly penetrated by
fatty acyl chains that extend into the central cavity, and these portals are
large enough for the entry of small, hydrophobic pore-blocking drugs. This
structure provides the template for understanding electrical signalling in
excitable cells and the actions of drugs used for pain, epilepsy and cardiac
arrhythmia at the atomic level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10238 
PMCID: PMC3266868
PMID: 21743477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Nature. 2011 Jul 10;476(7359):232-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10258.

Crystal structure of the human centromeric nucleosome containing CENP-A.

Tachiwana H(1), Kagawa W, Shiga T, Osakabe A, Miya Y, Saito K, Hayashi-Takanaka
Y, Oda T, Sato M, Park SY, Kimura H, Kurumizaka H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Biology, Graduate School of Advanced Science and
Engineering, Waseda University, 2-2 Wakamatsu-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8480,
Japan.

In eukaryotes, accurate chromosome segregation during mitosis and meiosis is
coordinated by kinetochores, which are unique chromosomal sites for microtubule
attachment. Centromeres specify the kinetochore formation sites on individual
chromosomes, and are epigenetically marked by the assembly of nucleosomes
containing the centromere-specific histone H3 variant, CENP-A. Although the
underlying mechanism is unclear, centromere inheritance is probably dictated by
the architecture of the centromeric nucleosome. Here we report the crystal
structure of the human centromeric nucleosome containing CENP-A and its cognate
α-satellite DNA derivative (147 base pairs). In the human CENP-A nucleosome, the 
DNA is wrapped around the histone octamer, consisting of two each of histones
H2A, H2B, H4 and CENP-A, in a left-handed orientation. However, unlike the
canonical H3 nucleosome, only the central 121 base pairs of the DNA are visible. 
The thirteen base pairs from both ends of the DNA are invisible in the crystal
structure, and the αN helix of CENP-A is shorter than that of H3, which is known 
to be important for the orientation of the DNA ends in the canonical H3
nucleosome. A structural comparison of the CENP-A and H3 nucleosomes revealed
that CENP-A contains two extra amino acid residues (Arg 80 and Gly 81) in the
loop 1 region, which is completely exposed to the solvent. Mutations of the
CENP-A loop 1 residues reduced CENP-A retention at the centromeres in human
cells. Therefore, the CENP-A loop 1 may function in stabilizing the centromeric
chromatin containing CENP-A, possibly by providing a binding site for
trans-acting factors. The structure provides the first atomic-resolution picture 
of the centromere-specific nucleosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10258 
PMID: 21743476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 2011 Jul 10;475(7356):394-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10181.

Protein targeting and degradation are coupled for elimination of mislocalized
proteins.

Hessa T(1), Sharma A, Mariappan M, Eshleman HD, Gutierrez E, Hegde RS.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Program, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Sep;12(9):550.

A substantial proportion of the genome encodes membrane proteins that are
delivered to the endoplasmic reticulum by dedicated targeting pathways. Membrane 
proteins that fail targeting must be rapidly degraded to avoid aggregation and
disruption of cytosolic protein homeostasis. The mechanisms of mislocalized
protein (MLP) degradation are unknown. Here we reconstitute MLP degradation in
vitro to identify factors involved in this pathway. We find that nascent membrane
proteins tethered to ribosomes are not substrates for ubiquitination unless they 
are released into the cytosol. Their inappropriate release results in capture by 
the Bag6 complex, a recently identified ribosome-associating chaperone.
Bag6-complex-mediated capture depends on the presence of unprocessed or
non-inserted hydrophobic domains that distinguish MLPs from potential cytosolic
proteins. A subset of these Bag6 complex 'clients' are transferred to TRC40 for
insertion into the membrane, whereas the remainder are rapidly ubiquitinated.
Depletion of the Bag6 complex selectively impairs the efficient ubiquitination of
MLPs. Thus, by its presence on ribosomes that are synthesizing nascent membrane
proteins, the Bag6 complex links targeting and ubiquitination pathways. We
propose that such coupling allows the fast tracking of MLPs for degradation
without futile engagement of the cytosolic folding machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10181 
PMCID: PMC3150218
PMID: 21743475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 2011 Jul 10;475(7355):189-95. doi: 10.1038/nature10158.

Genome sequence and analysis of the tuber crop potato.

Potato Genome Sequencing Consortium(1), Xu X, Pan S, Cheng S, Zhang B, Mu D, Ni
P, Zhang G, Yang S, Li R, Wang J, Orjeda G, Guzman F, Torres M, Lozano R, Ponce
O, Martinez D, De la Cruz G, Chakrabarti SK, Patil VU, Skryabin KG, Kuznetsov BB,
Ravin NV, Kolganova TV, Beletsky AV, Mardanov AV, Di Genova A, Bolser DM, Martin 
DM, Li G, Yang Y, Kuang H, Hu Q, Xiong X, Bishop GJ, Sagredo B, Mejía N, Zagorski
W, Gromadka R, Gawor J, Szczesny P, Huang S, Zhang Z, Liang C, He J, Li Y, He Y, 
Xu J, Zhang Y, Xie B, Du Y, Qu D, Bonierbale M, Ghislain M, Herrera Mdel R,
Giuliano G, Pietrella M, Perrotta G, Facella P, O'Brien K, Feingold SE, Barreiro 
LE, Massa GA, Diambra L, Whitty BR, Vaillancourt B, Lin H, Massa AN, Geoffroy M, 
Lundback S, DellaPenna D, Buell CR, Sharma SK, Marshall DF, Waugh R, Bryan GJ,
Destefanis M, Nagy I, Milbourne D, Thomson SJ, Fiers M, Jacobs JM, Nielsen KL,
Sønderkær M, Iovene M, Torres GA, Jiang J, Veilleux RE, Bachem CW, de Boer J,
Borm T, Kloosterman B, van Eck H, Datema E, Hekkert Bt, Goverse A, van Ham RC,
Visser RG.

Author information: 
(1)BGI-Shenzhen, Chinese Ministry of Agricultural, Key Lab of Genomics, Beishan
Industrial Zone, Yantian District, Shenzhen 518083, China.

Potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) is the world's most important non-grain food crop
and is central to global food security. It is clonally propagated, highly
heterozygous, autotetraploid, and suffers acute inbreeding depression. Here we
use a homozygous doubled-monoploid potato clone to sequence and assemble 86% of
the 844-megabase genome. We predict 39,031 protein-coding genes and present
evidence for at least two genome duplication events indicative of a
palaeopolyploid origin. As the first genome sequence of an asterid, the potato
genome reveals 2,642 genes specific to this large angiosperm clade. We also
sequenced a heterozygous diploid clone and show that gene presence/absence
variants and other potentially deleterious mutations occur frequently and are a
likely cause of inbreeding depression. Gene family expansion, tissue-specific
expression and recruitment of genes to new pathways contributed to the evolution 
of tuber development. The potato genome sequence provides a platform for genetic 
improvement of this vital crop.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10158 
PMID: 21743474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature10126.

The ribosome uses two active mechanisms to unwind messenger RNA during
translation.

Qu X(1), Wen JD, Lancaster L, Noller HF, Bustamante C, Tinoco I Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Jason L. Choy Laboratory of Single Molecule Biophysics and QB3 Institute,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

The ribosome translates the genetic information encoded in messenger RNA into
protein. Folded structures in the coding region of an mRNA represent a kinetic
barrier that lowers the peptide elongation rate, as the ribosome must disrupt
structures it encounters in the mRNA at its entry site to allow translocation to 
the next codon. Such structures are exploited by the cell to create diverse
strategies for translation regulation, such as programmed frameshifting, the
modulation of protein expression levels, ribosome localization and
co-translational protein folding. Although strand separation activity is inherent
to the ribosome, requiring no exogenous helicases, its mechanism is still
unknown. Here, using a single-molecule optical tweezers assay on mRNA hairpins,
we find that the translation rate of identical codons at the decoding centre is
greatly influenced by the GC content of folded structures at the mRNA entry site.
Furthermore, force applied to the ends of the hairpin to favour its unfolding
significantly speeds translation. Quantitative analysis of the force dependence
of its helicase activity reveals that the ribosome, unlike previously studied
helicases, uses two distinct active mechanisms to unwind mRNA structure: it
destabilizes the helical junction at the mRNA entry site by biasing its thermal
fluctuations towards the open state, increasing the probability of the ribosome
translocating unhindered; and it mechanically pulls apart the mRNA single strands
of the closed junction during the conformational changes that accompany ribosome 
translocation. The second of these mechanisms ensures a minimal basal rate of
translation in the cell; specialized, mechanically stable structures are required
to stall the ribosome temporarily. Our results establish a quantitative
mechanical basis for understanding the mechanism of regulation of the elongation 
rate of translation by structured mRNAs.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10126 
PMCID: PMC4170678
PMID: 21734708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10189.

Oncogene-induced Nrf2 transcription promotes ROS detoxification and
tumorigenesis.

DeNicola GM(1), Karreth FA, Humpton TJ, Gopinathan A, Wei C, Frese K, Mangal D,
Yu KH, Yeo CJ, Calhoun ES, Scrimieri F, Winter JM, Hruban RH, Iacobuzio-Donahue
C, Kern SE, Blair IA, Tuveson DA.

Author information: 
(1)Li Ka Shing Centre, Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, Robinson Way,
Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Sep;11(9):622-3.
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2011 Dec;24(6):1078-9.
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):43-4.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are mutagenic and may thereby promote cancer.
Normally, ROS levels are tightly controlled by an inducible antioxidant program
that responds to cellular stressors and is predominantly regulated by the
transcription factor Nrf2 (also known as Nfe2l2) and its repressor protein Keap1 
(refs 2-5). In contrast to the acute physiological regulation of Nrf2, in
neoplasia there is evidence for increased basal activation of Nrf2. Indeed,
somatic mutations that disrupt the Nrf2-Keap1 interaction to stabilize Nrf2 and
increase the constitutive transcription of Nrf2 target genes were recently
identified, indicating that enhanced ROS detoxification and additional Nrf2
functions may in fact be pro-tumorigenic. Here, we investigated ROS metabolism in
primary murine cells following the expression of endogenous oncogenic alleles of 
Kras, Braf and Myc, and found that ROS are actively suppressed by these
oncogenes. K-Ras(G12D), B-Raf(V619E) and Myc(ERT2) each increased the
transcription of Nrf2 to stably elevate the basal Nrf2 antioxidant program and
thereby lower intracellular ROS and confer a more reduced intracellular
environment. Oncogene-directed increased expression of Nrf2 is a new mechanism
for the activation of the Nrf2 antioxidant program, and is evident in primary
cells and tissues of mice expressing K-Ras(G12D) and B-Raf(V619E), and in human
pancreatic cancer. Furthermore, genetic targeting of the Nrf2 pathway impairs
K-Ras(G12D)-induced proliferation and tumorigenesis in vivo. Thus, the Nrf2
antioxidant and cellular detoxification program represents a previously
unappreciated mediator of oncogenesis.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10189 
PMCID: PMC3404470
PMID: 21734707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10196.

Attosecond control of electrons emitted from a nanoscale metal tip.

Krüger M(1), Schenk M, Hommelhoff P.

Author information: 
(1)Ultrafast Quantum Optics Group, Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik,
Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748 Garching bei München, Germany.

Attosecond science is based on steering electrons with the electric field of well
controlled femtosecond laser pulses. It has led to the generation of
extreme-ultraviolet pulses with a duration of less than 100 attoseconds (ref. 3; 
1 as = 10(-18) s), to the measurement of intramolecular dynamics (by diffraction 
of an electron taken from the molecule under scrutiny) and to ultrafast electron 
holography. All these effects have been observed with atoms or molecules in the
gas phase. Electrons liberated from solids by few-cycle laser pulses are also
predicted to show a strong light-phase sensitivity, but only very small effects
have been observed. Here we report that the spectra of electrons undergoing
photoemission from a nanometre-scale tungsten tip show a dependence on the
carrier-envelope phase of the laser, with a current modulation of up to 100 per
cent. Depending on the carrier-envelope phase, electrons are emitted either from 
a single sub-500-attosecond interval of the 6-femtosecond laser pulse, or from
two such intervals; the latter case leads to spectral interference. We also show 
that coherent elastic re-scattering of liberated electrons takes place at the
metal surface. Owing to field enhancement at the tip, a simple laser oscillator
reaches the peak electric field strengths required for attosecond experiments at 
100-megahertz repetition rates, rendering complex amplified laser systems
dispensable. Practically, this work represents a simple, extremely sensitive
carrier-envelope phase sensor, which could be shrunk in volume to about one cubic
centimetre. Our results indicate that the attosecond techniques developed with
(and for) atoms and molecules can also be used with solids. In particular, we
foresee subfemtosecond, subnanometre probing of collective electron dynamics
(such as plasmon polaritons) in solid-state systems ranging in scale from
mesoscopic solids to clusters and to single protruding atoms.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10196 
PMID: 21734706 


414. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):75-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10205.

A giant thunderstorm on Saturn.

Fischer G(1), Kurth WS, Gurnett DA, Zarka P, Dyudina UA, Ingersoll AP, Ewald SP, 
Porco CC, Wesley A, Go C, Delcroix M.

Author information: 
(1)Space Research Institute, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Schmiedlstrasse 6,
A-8042 Graz, Austria. georg.fischer@oeaw.ac.at

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):44-5.

Lightning discharges in Saturn's atmosphere emit radio waves with intensities
about 10,000 times stronger than those of their terrestrial counterparts. These
radio waves are the characteristic features of lightning from thunderstorms on
Saturn, which last for days to months. Convective storms about 2,000 kilometres
in size have been observed in recent years at planetocentric latitude 35° south
(corresponding to a planetographic latitude of 41° south). Here we report
observations of a giant thunderstorm at planetocentric latitude 35° north that
reached a latitudinal extension of 10,000 kilometres-comparable in size to a
'Great White Spot'-about three weeks after it started in early December 2010. The
visible plume consists of high-altitude clouds that overshoot the outermost
ammonia cloud layer owing to strong vertical convection, as is typical for
thunderstorms. The flash rates of this storm are about an order of magnitude
higher than previous ones, and peak rates larger than ten per second were
recorded. This main storm developed an elongated eastward tail with additional
but weaker storm cells that wrapped around the whole planet by February 2011.
Unlike storms on Earth, the total power of this storm is comparable to Saturn's
total emitted power. The appearance of such storms in the northern hemisphere
could be related to the change of seasons, given that Saturn experienced vernal
equinox in August 2009.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10205 
PMID: 21734705 


415. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):71-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10203.

Deep winds beneath Saturn's upper clouds from a seasonal long-lived
planetary-scale storm.

Sánchez-Lavega A(1), del Río-Gaztelurrutia T, Hueso R, Gómez-Forrellad JM,
Sanz-Requena JF, Legarreta J, García-Melendo E, Colas F, Lecacheux J, Fletcher
LN, Barrado-Navascués D, Parker D; International Outer Planet Watch Team.

Collaborators: Akutsu T, Barry T, Beltran J, Buda S, Combs B, Carvalho F,
Casquinha P, Delcroix M, Ghomizadeh S, Go C, Hotershall J, Ikemura T, Jolly G,
Kazemoto A, Kumamori T, Lecompte M, Maxson P, Melillo FJ, Milika DP, Morales E,
Peach D, Phillips J, Poupeau JJ, Sussenbach J, Walker G, Walker S, Tranter T,
Wesley A, Wilson T, Yunoki K.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física Aplicada I, Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería,
Universidad del País Vasco, Alameda Urquijo s/n, 48013 Bilbao, Spain.
agustin.sanchez@ehu.es

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):44-5.

Convective storms occur regularly in Saturn's atmosphere. Huge storms known as
Great White Spots, which are ten times larger than the regular storms, are rarer 
and occur about once per Saturnian year (29.5 Earth years). Current models
propose that the outbreak of a Great White Spot is due to moist convection
induced by water. However, the generation of the global disturbance and its
effect on Saturn's permanent winds have hitherto been unconstrained by data,
because there was insufficient spatial resolution and temporal sampling to infer 
the dynamics of Saturn's weather layer (the layer in the troposphere where the
cloud forms). Theoretically, it has been suggested that this phenomenon is
seasonally controlled. Here we report observations of a storm at northern
latitudes in the peak of a weak westward jet during the beginning of northern
springtime, in accord with the seasonal cycle but earlier than expected. The
storm head moved faster than the jet, was active during the two-month observation
period, and triggered a planetary-scale disturbance that circled Saturn but did
not significantly alter the ambient zonal winds. Numerical simulations of the
phenomenon show that, as on Jupiter, Saturn's winds extend without decay deep
down into the weather layer, at least to the water-cloud base at pressures of
10-12 bar, which is much deeper than solar radiation penetrates.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10203 
PMID: 21734704 


416. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):53-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10192.

Fancd2 counteracts the toxic effects of naturally produced aldehydes in mice.

Langevin F(1), Crossan GP, Rosado IV, Arends MJ, Patel KJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):45-6.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Jun;13(6):342.

Reactive aldehydes are common carcinogens. They are also by-products of several
metabolic pathways and, without enzymatic catabolism, may accumulate and cause
DNA damage. Ethanol, which is metabolised to acetaldehyde, is both carcinogenic
and teratogenic in humans. Here we find that the Fanconi anaemia DNA repair
pathway counteracts acetaldehyde-induced genotoxicity in mice. Our results show
that the acetaldehyde-catabolising enzyme Aldh2 is essential for the development 
of Fancd2(-/-) embryos. Nevertheless, acetaldehyde-catabolism-competent mothers
(Aldh2(+/-)) can support the development of double-mutant (Aldh2(-/-)Fancd2(-/-))
mice. However, these embryos are unusually sensitive to ethanol exposure in
utero, and ethanol consumption by postnatal double-deficient mice rapidly
precipitates bone marrow failure. Lastly, Aldh2(-/-)Fancd2(-/-) mice
spontaneously develop acute leukaemia. Acetaldehyde-mediated DNA damage may
critically contribute to the genesis of fetal alcohol syndrome in fetuses, as
well as to abnormal development, haematopoietic failure and cancer predisposition
in Fanconi anaemia patients.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10192 
PMID: 21734703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7354):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10174.

Indian and African plate motions driven by the push force of the Réunion plume
head.

Cande SC(1), Stegman DR.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, La Jolla, California 92093-0220, USA.
scande@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):40-1.

Mantle plumes are thought to play an important part in the Earth's tectonics, yet
it has been difficult to isolate the effect that plumes have on plate motions.
Here we analyse the plate motions involved in two apparently disparate
events--the unusually rapid motion of India between 67 and 52 million years ago
and a contemporaneous, transitory slowing of Africa's motion--and show that the
events are coupled, with the common element being the position of the Indian and 
African plates relative to the location of the Réunion plume head. The
synchroneity of these events suggests that they were both driven by the force of 
the Réunion plume head. The recognition of this plume force has substantial
tectonic implications: the speed-up and slowdown of India, the possible cessation
of convergence between Africa and Eurasia in the Palaeocene epoch and the
enigmatic bends of the fracture zones on the Southwest Indian Ridge can all be
attributed to the Réunion plume.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10174 
PMID: 21734702 


418. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;476(7359):206-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10207.

Initial radiation of jaws demonstrated stability despite faunal and environmental
change.

Anderson PS(1), Friedman M, Brazeau MD, Rayfield EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK.
phil.anderson@bristol.ac.uk

More than 99 per cent of the roughly 58,000 living vertebrate species have jaws. 
This major clade, whose members are collectively known as gnathostomes ('jawed
mouths'), made its earliest definitive appearance in the Silurian period, 444-416
million years (Myr) ago, with both the origin of the modern (crown-group)
radiation and the presumptive invasion of land occurring by the end of the
Devonian period (359 Myr ago). These events coincided with a major faunal shift
that remains apparent today: the transition from Silurian ecosystems dominated by
jawless fishes (agnathans) to younger assemblages composed almost exclusively of 
gnathostomes. This pattern has inspired several qualitative descriptions of the
trophic radiation and ecological ascendance of the earliest jawed vertebrates.
Here we present a quantitative analysis of functional variation in early
gnathostome mandibular elements, placing constraints on our understanding of
evolutionary patterns during this critical interval. We document an initial
increase in functional disparity in the Silurian that stabilized by the first
stage of the Devonian, before the occurrence of an Emsian (∼400 Myr ago)
oxygenation event implicated in the trophic radiation of vertebrates. Subsequent 
taxonomic diversification during the Devonian did not result in increased
functional variation; instead, new taxa revisited and elaborated on established
mandibular designs. Devonian functional space is dominated by lobe-finned fishes 
and 'placoderms'; high disparity within the latter implies considerable trophic
innovation among jaw-bearing stem gnathostomes. By contrast, the major groups of 
living vertebrates--ray-finned fishes and tetrapods--show surprisingly
conservative mandibular morphologies with little indication of functional
diversification or innovation. Devonian gnathostomes reached a point where they
ceased to accrue further mandibular functional disparity before becoming
taxonomic dominants relative to 'ostracoderm'-grade jawless fishes, providing a
new perspective on classic adaptive hypotheses concerning this fundamental shift 
in vertebrate biodiversity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10207 
PMID: 21734660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;476(7358):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10240.

Excess digestive capacity in predators reflects a life of feast and famine.

Armstrong JB(1), Schindler DE.

Author information: 
(1)School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, Box 355020, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. Jonny99@uw.edu

A central challenge for predators is achieving positive energy balance when prey 
are spatially and temporally heterogeneous. Ecological heterogeneity produces
evolutionary trade-offs in the physiological design of predators; this is because
the ability to capitalize on pulses of food abundance requires high capacity for 
food-processing, yet maintaining such capacity imposes energetic costs that are
taxing during periods of food scarcity. Recent advances in physiology show that
when variation in foraging opportunities is predictable, animals may adjust
energetic trade-offs by rapidly modulating their digestive system to track
variation in foraging opportunities. However, it is increasingly recognized that 
foraging opportunities for animals are unpredictable, which should favour animals
that maintain a capacity for food-processing that exceeds average levels of
consumption (loads). Despite this basic principle of quantitative evolutionary
design, estimates of digestive load:capacity ratios in wild animals are virtually
non-existent. Here we provide an extensive assessment of load:capacity ratios for
the digestive systems of predators in the wild, compiling 639 estimates across 38
species of fish. We found that piscine predators typically maintain the
physiological capacity to feed at daily rates 2-3 times higher than what they
experience on average. A numerical simulation of the trade-off between
food-processing capacity and metabolic cost suggests that the observed level of
physiological opportunism is profitable only if predator-prey encounters, and
thus predator energy budgets, are far more variable in nature than currently
assumed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10240 
PMID: 21734659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7356):403-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10215.

Structure and mechanism of the Swi2/Snf2 remodeller Mot1 in complex with its
substrate TBP.

Wollmann P(1), Cui S, Viswanathan R, Berninghausen O, Wells MN, Moldt M, Witte G,
Butryn A, Wendler P, Beckmann R, Auble DT, Hopfner KP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians University,
Feodor-Lynen-Strasse 25, 81377 Munich, Germany.

Swi2/Snf2-type ATPases regulate genome-associated processes such as
transcription, replication and repair by catalysing the disruption, assembly or
remodelling of nucleosomes or other protein-DNA complexes. It has been suggested 
that ATP-driven motor activity along DNA disrupts target protein-DNA interactions
in the remodelling reaction. However, the complex and highly specific remodelling
reactions are poorly understood, mostly because of a lack of high-resolution
structural information about how remodellers bind to their substrate proteins.
Mot1 (modifier of transcription 1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, denoted BTAF1 in
humans) is a Swi2/Snf2 enzyme that specifically displaces the TATA box binding
protein (TBP) from the promoter DNA and regulates transcription globally by
generating a highly dynamic TBP pool in the cell. As a Swi2/Snf2 enzyme that
functions as a single polypeptide and interacts with a relatively simple
substrate, Mot1 offers an ideal system from which to gain a better understanding 
of this important enzyme family. To reveal how Mot1 specifically disrupts TBP-DNA
complexes, we combined crystal and electron microscopy structures of Mot1-TBP
from Encephalitozoon cuniculi with biochemical studies. Here we show that Mot1
wraps around TBP and seems to act like a bottle opener: a spring-like array of 16
HEAT (huntingtin, elongation factor 3, protein phosphatase 2A and lipid kinase
TOR) repeats grips the DNA-distal side of TBP via loop insertions, and the
Swi2/Snf2 domain binds to upstream DNA, positioned to weaken the TBP-DNA
interaction by DNA translocation. A 'latch' subsequently blocks the DNA-binding
groove of TBP, acting as a chaperone to prevent DNA re-association and ensure
efficient promoter clearance. This work shows how a remodelling enzyme can
combine both motor and chaperone activities to achieve functional specificity
using a conserved Swi2/Snf2 translocase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10215 
PMCID: PMC3276066
PMID: 21734658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7356):359-63. doi: 10.1038/nature10261.

Sideband cooling of micromechanical motion to the quantum ground state.

Teufel JD(1), Donner T, Li D, Harlow JW, Allman MS, Cicak K, Sirois AJ, Whittaker
JD, Lehnert KW, Simmonds RW.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Standards and Technology, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA. 
john.teufel@nist.gov

The advent of laser cooling techniques revolutionized the study of many
atomic-scale systems, fuelling progress towards quantum computing with trapped
ions and generating new states of matter with Bose-Einstein condensates.
Analogous cooling techniques can provide a general and flexible method of
preparing macroscopic objects in their motional ground state. Cavity
optomechanical or electromechanical systems achieve sideband cooling through the 
strong interaction between light and motion. However, entering the quantum
regime--in which a system has less than a single quantum of motion--has been
difficult because sideband cooling has not sufficiently overwhelmed the coupling 
of low-frequency mechanical systems to their hot environments. Here we
demonstrate sideband cooling of an approximately 10-MHz micromechanical
oscillator to the quantum ground state. This achievement required a large
electromechanical interaction, which was obtained by embedding a micromechanical 
membrane into a superconducting microwave resonant circuit. To verify the cooling
of the membrane motion to a phonon occupation of 0.34 ± 0.05 phonons, we perform 
a near-Heisenberg-limited position measurement within (5.1 ± 0.4)h/2π, where h is
Planck's constant. Furthermore, our device exhibits strong coupling, allowing
coherent exchange of microwave photons and mechanical phonons. Simultaneously
achieving strong coupling, ground state preparation and efficient measurement
sets the stage for rapid advances in the control and detection of non-classical
states of motion, possibly even testing quantum theory itself in the unexplored
region of larger size and mass. Because mechanical oscillators can couple to
light of any frequency, they could also serve as a unique intermediary for
transferring quantum information between microwave and optical domains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10261 
PMID: 21734657 


422. Nature. 2011 Jul 6;475(7357):506-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10307.

Legionella pneumophila SidD is a deAMPylase that modifies Rab1.

Tan Y(1), Luo ZQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, 915 West State Street,
West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2011 Aug 18;10(2):89-91.

Legionella pneumophila actively modulates host vesicle trafficking pathways to
facilitate its intracellular replication with effectors translocated by the
Dot/Icm type IV secretion system (T4SS). The SidM/DrrA protein functions by
locking the small GTPase Rab1 into an active form by its guanine nucleotide
exchange factor (GEF) and AMPylation activity. Here we demonstrate that the L.
pneumophila protein SidD preferably deAMPylates Rab1. We found that the
deAMPylation activity of SidD could suppress the toxicity of SidM to yeast and is
required to release Rab1 from bacterial phagosomes efficiently. A molecular
mechanism for the temporal control of Rab1 activity in different phases of L.
pneumophila infection is thus established. These observations indicate that
AMPylation-mediated signal transduction is a reversible process regulated by
specific enzymes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10307 
PMCID: PMC3146296
PMID: 21734656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 2011 Jul 4;476(7360):293-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10337.

Lgr5 homologues associate with Wnt receptors and mediate R-spondin signalling.

de Lau W(1), Barker N, Low TY, Koo BK, Li VS, Teunissen H, Kujala P, Haegebarth
A, Peters PJ, van de Wetering M, Stange DE, van Es JE, Guardavaccaro D,
Schasfoort RB, Mohri Y, Nishimori K, Mohammed S, Heck AJ, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute and University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CX Utrecht, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 18;476(7360):287-8.

The adult stem cell marker Lgr5 and its relative Lgr4 are often co-expressed in
Wnt-driven proliferative compartments. We find that conditional deletion of both 
genes in the mouse gut impairs Wnt target gene expression and results in the
rapid demise of intestinal crypts, thus phenocopying Wnt pathway inhibition. Mass
spectrometry demonstrates that Lgr4 and Lgr5 associate with the Frizzled/Lrp Wnt 
receptor complex. Each of the four R-spondins, secreted Wnt pathway agonists, can
bind to Lgr4, -5 and -6. In HEK293 cells, RSPO1 enhances canonical WNT signals
initiated by WNT3A. Removal of LGR4 does not affect WNT3A signalling, but
abrogates the RSPO1-mediated signal enhancement, a phenomenon rescued by
re-expression of LGR4, -5 or -6. Genetic deletion of Lgr4/5 in mouse intestinal
crypt cultures phenocopies withdrawal of Rspo1 and can be rescued by Wnt pathway 
activation. Lgr5 homologues are facultative Wnt receptor components that mediate 
Wnt signal enhancement by soluble R-spondin proteins. These results will guide
future studies towards the application of R-spondins for regenerative purposes of
tissues expressing Lgr5 homologues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10337 
PMID: 21727895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 2011 Jul 3;475(7355):244-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10161.

Coordination of DNA replication and histone modification by the Rik1-Dos2
complex.

Li F(1), Martienssen R, Cande WZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.
fl43@nyu.edu

Histone modification marks have an important role in many chromatin processes.
During DNA replication, both heterochromatin and euchromatin are disrupted ahead 
of the replication fork and are then reassembled into their original epigenetic
states behind the fork. How histone marks are accurately inherited from
generation to generation is still poorly understood. In fission yeast
(Schizosaccharomyces pombe), RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated histone methylation
is cell cycle regulated. Centromeric repeats are transiently transcribed in the S
phase of the cell cycle and are processed into short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) by
the complexes RITS (RNA-induced initiation of transcriptional gene silencing) and
RDRC (RNA-directed RNA polymerase complex). The small RNAs together with
silencing factors-including Dos1 (also known as Clr8 and Raf1), Dos2 (also known 
as Clr7 and Raf2), Rik1 and Lid2-promote heterochromatic methylation of histone
H3 at lysine 9 (H3K9) by a histone methyltransferase, Clr4 (refs 8-13). The
methylation of H3K9 provides a binding site for Swi6, a structural and functional
homologue of metazoan heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1). Here we characterize a
silencing complex in fission yeast that contains Dos2, Rik1, Mms19 and Cdc20 (the
catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase-ε). This complex regulates RNA polymerase II 
(RNA Pol II) activity in heterochromatin and is required for DNA replication and 
heterochromatin assembly. Our findings provide a molecular link between DNA
replication and histone methylation, shedding light on how epigenetic marks are
transmitted during each cell cycle.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10161 
PMCID: PMC3163161
PMID: 21725325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 2011 Jul 3;476(7359):224-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10284.

Direct generation of functional dopaminergic neurons from mouse and human
fibroblasts.

Caiazzo M(1), Dell'Anno MT, Dvoretskova E, Lazarevic D, Taverna S, Leo D,
Sotnikova TD, Menegon A, Roncaglia P, Colciago G, Russo G, Carninci P, Pezzoli G,
Gainetdinov RR, Gustincich S, Dityatev A, Broccoli V.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cells and Neurogenesis Unit, Division of Neuroscience, San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, 20132 Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):158-9.

Transplantation of dopaminergic neurons can potentially improve the clinical
outcome of Parkinson's disease, a neurological disorder resulting from
degeneration of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. In particular,
transplantation of embryonic-stem-cell-derived dopaminergic neurons has been
shown to be efficient in restoring motor symptoms in conditions of dopamine
deficiency. However, the use of pluripotent-derived cells might lead to the
development of tumours if not properly controlled. Here we identified a minimal
set of three transcription factors--Mash1 (also known as Ascl1), Nurr1 (also
known as Nr4a2) and Lmx1a--that are able to generate directly functional
dopaminergic neurons from mouse and human fibroblasts without reverting to a
progenitor cell stage. Induced dopaminergic (iDA) cells release dopamine and show
spontaneous electrical activity organized in regular spikes consistent with the
pacemaker activity featured by brain dopaminergic neurons. The three factors were
able to elicit dopaminergic neuronal conversion in prenatal and adult fibroblasts
from healthy donors and Parkinson's disease patients. Direct generation of iDA
cells from somatic cells might have significant implications for understanding
critical processes for neuronal development, in vitro disease modelling and cell 
replacement therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10284 
PMID: 21725324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 2011 Jul 3;475(7355):240-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10162.

Architecture of the Mediator head module.

Imasaki T(1), Calero G, Cai G, Tsai KL, Yamada K, Cardelli F, Erdjument-Bromage
H, Tempst P, Berger I, Kornberg GL, Asturias FJ, Kornberg RD, Takagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, 635 Barnhill Drive, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA.

Mediator is a key regulator of eukaryotic transcription, connecting activators
and repressors bound to regulatory DNA elements with RNA polymerase II (Pol II). 
In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Mediator comprises 25 subunits with a
total mass of more than one megadalton (refs 5, 6) and is organized into three
modules, called head, middle/arm and tail. Our understanding of Mediator assembly
and its role in regulating transcription has been impeded so far by limited
structural information. Here we report the crystal structure of the essential
Mediator head module (seven subunits, with a mass of 223 kilodaltons) at a
resolution of 4.3 ångströms. Our structure reveals three distinct domains, with
the integrity of the complex centred on a bundle of ten helices from five
different head subunits. An intricate pattern of interactions within this helical
bundle ensures the stable assembly of the head subunits and provides the binding 
sites for general transcription factors and Pol II. Our structural and functional
data suggest that the head module juxtaposes transcription factor IIH and the
carboxy-terminal domain of the largest subunit of Pol II, thereby facilitating
phosphorylation of the carboxy-terminal domain of Pol II. Our results reveal
architectural principles underlying the role of Mediator in the regulation of
gene expression.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10162 
PMCID: PMC4109712
PMID: 21725323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):658-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10195.

Vpx relieves inhibition of HIV-1 infection of macrophages mediated by the SAMHD1 
protein.

Hrecka K(1), Hao C, Gierszewska M, Swanson SK, Kesik-Brodacka M, Srivastava S,
Florens L, Washburn MP, Skowronski J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Microbiology, Case School of Medicine,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):587-8.

Macrophages and dendritic cells have key roles in viral infections, providing
virus reservoirs that frequently resist antiviral therapies and linking innate
virus detection to antiviral adaptive immune responses. Human immunodeficiency
virus 1 (HIV-1) fails to transduce dendritic cells and has a reduced ability to
transduce macrophages, due to an as yet uncharacterized mechanism that inhibits
infection by interfering with efficient synthesis of viral complementary DNA. In 
contrast, HIV-2 and related simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVsm/mac) transduce
myeloid cells efficiently owing to their virion-associated Vpx accessory
proteins, which counteract the restrictive mechanism. Here we show that the
inhibition of HIV-1 infection in macrophages involves the cellular SAM domain HD 
domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1). Vpx relieves the inhibition of lentivirus
infection in macrophages by loading SAMHD1 onto the CRL4(DCAF1) E3 ubiquitin
ligase, leading to highly efficient proteasome-dependent degradation of the
protein. Mutations in SAMHD1 cause Aicardi-Goutières syndrome, a disease that
produces a phenotype that mimics the effects of a congenital viral infection.
Failure to dispose of endogenous nucleic acid debris in Aicardi-Goutières
syndrome results in inappropriate triggering of innate immune responses via
cytosolic nucleic acids sensors. Thus, our findings show that macrophages are
defended from HIV-1 infection by a mechanism that prevents an unwanted interferon
response triggered by self nucleic acids, and uncover an intricate relationship
between innate immune mechanisms that control response to self and to retroviral 
pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10195 
PMCID: PMC3179858
PMID: 21720370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):631-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10097.

Modern optics in exceptionally preserved eyes of Early Cambrian arthropods from
Australia.

Lee MS(1), Jago JB, García-Bellido DC, Edgecombe GD, Gehling JG, Paterson JR.

Author information: 
(1)South Australian Museum, North Terrace, Adelaide, South Australia 5000,
Australia. mike.lee@samuseum.sa.gov.au

Despite the status of the eye as an "organ of extreme perfection", theory
suggests that complex eyes can evolve very rapidly. The fossil record has, until 
now, been inadequate in providing insight into the early evolution of eyes during
the initial radiation of many animal groups known as the Cambrian explosion. This
is surprising because Cambrian Burgess-Shale-type deposits are replete with
exquisitely preserved animals, especially arthropods, that possess eyes. However,
with the exception of biomineralized trilobite eyes, virtually nothing is known
about the details of their optical design. Here we report exceptionally preserved
fossil eyes from the Early Cambrian (∼ 515 million years ago) Emu Bay Shale of
South Australia, revealing that some of the earliest arthropods possessed highly 
advanced compound eyes, each with over 3,000 large ommatidial lenses and a
specialized 'bright zone'. These are the oldest non-biomineralized eyes known in 
such detail, with preservation quality exceeding that found in the Burgess Shale 
and Chengjiang deposits. Non-biomineralized eyes of similar complexity are
otherwise unknown until about 85 million years later. The arrangement and size of
the lenses indicate that these eyes belonged to an active predator that was
capable of seeing in low light. The eyes are more complex than those known from
contemporaneous trilobites and are as advanced as those of many living forms.
They provide further evidence that the Cambrian explosion involved rapid
innovation in fine-scale anatomy as well as gross morphology, and are consistent 
with the concept that the development of advanced vision helped to drive this
great evolutionary event.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10097 
PMID: 21720369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):627-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10204.

Quantum quench of Kondo correlations in optical absorption.

Latta C(1), Haupt F, Hanl M, Weichselbaum A, Claassen M, Wuester W, Fallahi P,
Faelt S, Glazman L, von Delft J, Türeci HE, Imamoglu A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Quantum Electronics, ETH-Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland.
clatta@phys.ethz.ch

The interaction between a single confined spin and the spins of an electron
reservoir leads to one of the most remarkable phenomena of many-body physics--the
Kondo effect. Electronic transport measurements on single artificial atoms, or
quantum dots, have made it possible to study the effect in great detail. Here we 
report optical measurements on a single semiconductor quantum dot tunnel-coupled 
to a degenerate electron gas which show that absorption of a single photon leads 
to an abrupt change in the system Hamiltonian and a quantum quench of Kondo
correlations. By inferring the characteristic power-law exponents from the
experimental absorption line shapes, we find a unique signature of the quench in 
the form of an Anderson orthogonality catastrophe, induced by a vanishing overlap
between the initial and final many-body wavefunctions. We show that the power-law
exponent that determines the degree of orthogonality can be tuned using an
external magnetic field, which unequivocally demonstrates that the observed
absorption line shape originates from Kondo correlations. Our experiments
demonstrate that optical measurements on single artificial atoms offer new
perspectives on many-body phenomena previously studied using transport
spectroscopy only.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10204 
PMID: 21720368 


430. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):623-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10170.

Observation of squeezed light from one atom excited with two photons.

Ourjoumtsev A(1), Kubanek A, Koch M, Sames C, Pinkse PW, Rempe G, Murr K.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany. alexei.ourjoumtsev@institutoptique.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):584-5.

Single quantum emitters such as atoms are well known as non-classical light
sources with reduced noise in the intensity, capable of producing photons one by 
one at given times. However, the light field emitted by a single atom can exhibit
much richer dynamics. A prominent example is the predicted ability of a single
atom to produce quadrature-squeezed light, which has fluctuations of amplitude or
phase that are below the shot-noise level. However, such squeezing is much more
difficult to observe than the emission of single photons. Squeezed beams have
been generated using macroscopic and mesoscopic media down to a few tens of
atoms, but despite experimental efforts, single-atom squeezing has so far escaped
observation. Here we generate squeezed light with a single atom in a high-finesse
optical resonator. The strong coupling of the atom to the cavity field induces a 
genuine quantum mechanical nonlinearity, which is several orders of magnitude
larger than in typical macroscopic media. This produces observable quadrature
squeezing, with an excitation beam containing on average only two photons per
system lifetime. In sharp contrast to the emission of single photons, the
squeezed light stems from the quantum coherence of photon pairs emitted from the 
system. The ability of a single atom to induce strong coherent interactions
between propagating photons opens up new perspectives for photonic quantum logic 
with single emitters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10170 
PMID: 21720367 


431. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):616-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10159.

A luminous quasar at a redshift of z = 7.085.

Mortlock DJ(1), Warren SJ, Venemans BP, Patel M, Hewett PC, McMahon RG, Simpson
C, Theuns T, Gonzáles-Solares EA, Adamson A, Dye S, Hambly NC, Hirst P, Irwin MJ,
Kuiper E, Lawrence A, Röttgering HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysics Group, Imperial College London, Blackett Laboratory, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2AZ, UK. mortlock@ic.ac.uk)

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):583-4.

The intergalactic medium was not completely reionized until approximately a
billion years after the Big Bang, as revealed by observations of quasars with
redshifts of less than 6.5. It has been difficult to probe to higher redshifts,
however, because quasars have historically been identified in optical surveys,
which are insensitive to sources at redshifts exceeding 6.5. Here we report
observations of a quasar (ULAS J112001.48+064124.3) at a redshift of 7.085, which
is 0.77 billion years after the Big Bang. ULAS J1120+0641 has a luminosity of 6.3
× 10(13)L(⊙) and hosts a black hole with a mass of 2 × 10(9)M(⊙) (where L(⊙) and 
M(⊙) are the luminosity and mass of the Sun). The measured radius of the ionized 
near zone around ULAS J1120+0641 is 1.9 megaparsecs, a factor of three smaller
than is typical for quasars at redshifts between 6.0 and 6.4. The near-zone
transmission profile is consistent with a Lyα damping wing, suggesting that the
neutral fraction of the intergalactic medium in front of ULAS J1120+0641 exceeded
0.1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10159 
PMID: 21720366 


432. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):609-15. doi: 10.1038/nature10166.

Integrated genomic analyses of ovarian carcinoma.

Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network.

Collaborators: Bell D, Berchuck A, Birrer M, Chien J, Cramer D, Dao F, Dhir R,
DiSaia P, Gabra H, Glenn P, Godwin A, Gross J, Hartmann L, Huang M, Huntsman D,
Iacocca M, Imielinski M, Kalloger S, Karlan B, Levine D, Mills G, Morrison C,
Mutch D, Olvera N, Orsulic S, Park K, Petrelli N, Rabeno B, Rader J, Sikic B,
Smith-McCune K, Sood A, Bowtell D, Penny R, Testa J, Chang K, Dinh H, Drummond J,
Fowler G, Gunaratne P, Hawes A, Kovar C, Lewis L, Morgan M, Newsham I, Santibanez
J, Reid J, Trevino L, Wu Y-, Wang M, Muzny D, Wheeler D, Gibbs R, Getz G,
Lawrence M, Cibulskis K, Sivachenko A, Sougnez C, Voet D, Wilkinson J, Bloom T,
Ardlie K, Fennell T, Baldwin J, Gabriel S, Lander E, Ding LL, Fulton R, Koboldt
D, McLellan M, Wylie T, Walker J, O'Laughlin M, Dooling D, Fulton L, Abbott R,
Dees N, Zhang Q, Kandoth C, Wendl M, Schierding W, Shen D, Harris C, Schmidt H,
Kalicki J, Delehaunty K, Fronick C, Demeter R, Cook L, Wallis J, Lin L, Magrini
V, Hodges J, Eldred J, Smith S, Pohl C, Vandin F, Raphael B, Weinstock G, Mardis 
E, Wilson R, Meyerson M, Winckler W, Getz G, Verhaak R, Carter S, Mermel C,
Saksena G, Nguyen H, Onofrio R, Lawrence M, Hubbard D, Gupta S, Crenshaw A, Ramos
A, Ardlie K, Chin L, Protopopov A, Zhang J, Kim T, Perna I, Xiao Y, Zhang H, Ren 
G, Sathiamoorthy N, Park R, Lee E, Park P, Kucherlapati R, Absher M, Waite L,
Sherlock G, Brooks J, Li J, Xu J, Myers R, Laird PW, Cope L, Herman J, Shen H,
Weisenberger D, Noushmehr H, Pan F, Triche T Jr, Berman B, Van Den Berg D,
Buckley J, Baylin S, Spellman P, Purdom E, Neuvial P, Bengtsson H, Jakkula L,
Durinck S, Han J, Dorton S, Marr H, Choi Y, Wang V, Wang N, Ngai J, Conboy J,
Parvin B, Feiler H, Speed T, Gray J, Levine A, Socci N, Liang Y, Taylor B,
Schultz N, Borsu L, Lash A, Brennan C, Viale A, Sander C, Ladanyi M, Hoadley K,
Meng S, Du Y, Shi Y, Li L, Turman Y, Zang D, Helms E, Balu S, Zhou X, Wu J, Topal
M, Hayes D, Perou C, Getz G, Voet D, Saksena G, Zhang J, Zhang H, Wu C, Shukla S,
Cibulskis K, Lawrence M, Sivachenko A, Jing R, Park R, Liu Y, Park P, Noble M,
Chin L, Carter H, Kim D, Karchin R, Spellman P, Purdom E, Neuvial P, Bengtsson H,
Durinck S, Han J, Korkola J, Heiser L, Cho R, Hu Z, Parvin B, Speed T, Gray J,
Schultz N, Cerami E, Taylor B, Olshen A, Reva B, Antipin Y, Shen R, Mankoo P,
Sheridan R, Ciriello G, Chang W, Bernanke J, Borsu L, Levine D, Ladanyi M, Sander
C, Haussler D, Benz C, Stuart J, Benz S, Sanborn J, Vaske C, Zhu J, Szeto C,
Scott G, Yau C, Hoadley K, Du Y, Balu S, Hayes D, Perou C, Wilkerson M, Zhang N, 
Akbani R, Baggerly K, Yung W, Mills G, Weinstein J, Penny R, Shelton T, Grimm D, 
Hatfield M, Morris S, Yena P, Rhodes P, Sherman M, Paulauskis J, Millis S, Kahn
A, Greene J, Sfeir R, Jensen M, Chen J, Whitmore J, Alonso S, Jordan J, Chu A,
Zhang J, Barker A, Compton C, Eley G, Ferguson M, Fielding P, Gerhard D, Myles R,
Schaefer C, Mills Shaw K, Vaught J, Vockley J, Good P, Guyer M, Ozenberger B,
Peterson J, Thomson E.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):298.

A catalogue of molecular aberrations that cause ovarian cancer is critical for
developing and deploying therapies that will improve patients' lives. The Cancer 
Genome Atlas project has analysed messenger RNA expression, microRNA expression, 
promoter methylation and DNA copy number in 489 high-grade serous ovarian
adenocarcinomas and the DNA sequences of exons from coding genes in 316 of these 
tumours. Here we report that high-grade serous ovarian cancer is characterized by
TP53 mutations in almost all tumours (96%); low prevalence but statistically
recurrent somatic mutations in nine further genes including NF1, BRCA1, BRCA2,
RB1 and CDK12; 113 significant focal DNA copy number aberrations; and promoter
methylation events involving 168 genes. Analyses delineated four ovarian cancer
transcriptional subtypes, three microRNA subtypes, four promoter methylation
subtypes and a transcriptional signature associated with survival duration, and
shed new light on the impact that tumours with BRCA1/2 (BRCA1 or BRCA2) and CCNE1
aberrations have on survival. Pathway analyses suggested that homologous
recombination is defective in about half of the tumours analysed, and that NOTCH 
and FOXM1 signalling are involved in serous ovarian cancer pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10166 
PMCID: PMC3163504
PMID: 21720365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):604-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10172.

Genomic island variability facilitates Prochlorococcus-virus coexistence.

Avrani S(1), Wurtzel O, Sharon I, Sorek R, Lindell D.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Biology, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000,
Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):582-3.

Prochlorococcus cyanobacteria are extremely abundant in the oceans, as are the
viruses that infect them. How hosts and viruses coexist in nature remains
unclear, although the presence of both susceptible and resistant cells may allow 
this coexistence. Combined whole-genome sequencing and PCR screening technology
now enables us to investigate the effect of resistance on genome evolution and
the genomic mechanisms behind the long-term coexistence of Prochlorococcus and
their viruses. Here we present a genome analysis of 77 substrains selected for
resistance to ten viruses, revealing mutations primarily in non-conserved,
horizontally transferred genes that localize to a single hypervariable genomic
island. Mutations affected viral attachment to the cell surface and imposed a
fitness cost to the host, manifested by significantly lower growth rates or a
previously unknown mechanism of more rapid infection by other viruses. The mutant
genes are generally uncommon in nature yet some carry polymorphisms matching
those found experimentally. These data are empirical evidence indicating that
viral-attachment genes are preferentially located in genomic islands and that
viruses are a selective pressure enhancing the diversity of both island genes and
island gene content. This diversity emerges as a genomic mechanism that reduces
the effective host population size for infection by a given virus, thus
facilitating long-term coexistence between viruses and their hosts in nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10172 
PMID: 21720364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):598-603. doi: 10.1038/nature10200.

Morphological evolution caused by many subtle-effect substitutions in regulatory 
DNA.

Frankel N(1), Erezyilmaz DF, McGregor AP, Wang S, Payre F, Stern DL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Morphology evolves often through changes in developmental genes, but the causal
mutations, and their effects, remain largely unknown. The evolution of naked
cuticle on larvae of Drosophila sechellia resulted from changes in five
transcriptional enhancers of shavenbaby (svb), a transcript of the ovo locus that
encodes a transcription factor that governs morphogenesis of microtrichiae,
hereafter called 'trichomes'. Here we show that the function of one of these
enhancers evolved through multiple single-nucleotide substitutions that altered
both the timing and level of svb expression. The consequences of these nucleotide
substitutions on larval morphology were quantified with a novel functional assay.
We found that each substitution had a relatively small phenotypic effect, and
that many nucleotide changes account for this large morphological difference. In 
addition, we observed that the substitutions had non-additive effects. These data
provide unprecedented resolution of the phenotypic effects of substitutions and
show how individual nucleotide changes in a transcriptional enhancer have caused 
morphological evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10200 
PMCID: PMC3170772
PMID: 21720363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;474(7353):589-97. doi: 10.1038/nature10122.

Atomic physics and quantum optics using superconducting circuits.

You JQ(1), Nori F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, State Key Laboratory of Surface Physics, Key Laboratory
of Micro and Nano Photonic Structures Ministry of Education, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200433, China. jqyou@fudan.edu.cn

Superconducting circuits based on Josephson junctions exhibit macroscopic quantum
coherence and can behave like artificial atoms. Recent technological advances
have made it possible to implement atomic-physics and quantum-optics experiments 
on a chip using these artificial atoms. This Review presents a brief overview of 
the progress achieved so far in this rapidly advancing field. We not only discuss
phenomena analogous to those in atomic physics and quantum optics with natural
atoms, but also highlight those not occurring in natural atoms. In addition, we
summarize several prospective directions in this emerging interdisciplinary
field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10122 
PMID: 21720362 


436. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;475(7356):390-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10263.

Direct conversion of mouse fibroblasts to hepatocyte-like cells by defined
factors.

Sekiya S(1), Suzuki A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Organogenesis and Regeneration, Medical Institute of
Bioregulation, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582,
Japan.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Aug 5;9(2):89-91.
    Hepatology. 2012 Jan;55(1):316-8.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Sep;8(9):474.

The location and timing of cellular differentiation must be stringently
controlled for proper organ formation. Normally, hepatocytes differentiate from
hepatic progenitor cells to form the liver during development. However, previous 
studies have shown that the hepatic program can also be activated in non-hepatic 
lineage cells after exposure to particular stimuli or fusion with hepatocytes.
These unexpected findings suggest that factors critical to hepatocyte
differentiation exist and become activated to induce hepatocyte-specific
properties in different cell types. Here, by screening the effects of twelve
candidate factors, we identify three specific combinations of two transcription
factors, comprising Hnf4α plus Foxa1, Foxa2 or Foxa3, that can convert mouse
embryonic and adult fibroblasts into cells that closely resemble hepatocytes in
vitro. The induced hepatocyte-like (iHep) cells have multiple hepatocyte-specific
features and reconstitute damaged hepatic tissues after transplantation. The
generation of iHep cells may provide insights into the molecular nature of
hepatocyte differentiation and potential therapies for liver diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10263 
PMID: 21716291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;475(7356):377-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10194.

Excitatory transmission from the amygdala to nucleus accumbens facilitates reward
seeking.

Stuber GD(1), Sparta DR, Stamatakis AM, van Leeuwen WA, Hardjoprajitno JE, Cho S,
Tye KM, Kempadoo KA, Zhang F, Deisseroth K, Bonci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, UNC Neuroscience Center, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
gstuber@med.unc.edu

The basolateral amygdala (BLA) has a crucial role in emotional learning
irrespective of valence. The BLA projection to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is
thought to modulate cue-triggered motivated behaviours, but our understanding of 
the interaction between these two brain regions has been limited by the inability
to manipulate neural-circuit elements of this pathway selectively during
behaviour. To circumvent this limitation, we used in vivo optogenetic stimulation
or inhibition of glutamatergic fibres from the BLA to the NAc, coupled with
intracranial pharmacology and ex vivo electrophysiology. Here we show that
optical stimulation of the pathway from the BLA to the NAc in mice reinforces
behavioural responding to earn additional optical stimulation of these synaptic
inputs. Optical stimulation of these glutamatergic fibres required intra-NAc
dopamine D1-type receptor signalling, but not D2-type receptor signalling. Brief 
optical inhibition of fibres from the BLA to the NAc reduced cue-evoked intake of
sucrose, demonstrating an important role of this specific pathway in controlling 
naturally occurring reward-related behaviour. Moreover, although optical
stimulation of glutamatergic fibres from the medial prefrontal cortex to the NAc 
also elicited reliable excitatory synaptic responses, optical self-stimulation
behaviour was not observed by activation of this pathway. These data indicate
that whereas the BLA is important for processing both positive and negative
affect, the glutamatergic pathway from the BLA to the NAc, in conjunction with
dopamine signalling in the NAc, promotes motivated behavioural responding. Thus, 
optogenetic manipulation of anatomically distinct synaptic inputs to the NAc
reveals functionally distinct properties of these inputs in controlling
reward-seeking behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10194 
PMCID: PMC3775282
PMID: 21716290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;475(7357):497-500. doi: 10.1038/nature10214.

A role for glia in the progression of Rett's syndrome.

Lioy DT(1), Garg SK, Monaghan CE, Raber J, Foust KD, Kaspar BK, Hirrlinger PG,
Kirchhoff F, Bissonnette JM, Ballas N, Mandel G.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon
97239, USA.

Rett's syndrome (RTT) is an X-chromosome-linked autism spectrum disorder caused
by loss of function of the transcription factor methyl-CpG-binding protein 2
(MeCP2). Although MeCP2 is expressed in most tissues, loss of MeCP2 expression
results primarily in neurological symptoms. Earlier studies suggested the idea
that RTT is due exclusively to loss of MeCP2 function in neurons. Although
defective neurons clearly underlie the aberrant behaviours, we and others showed 
recently that the loss of MECP2 from glia negatively influences neurons in a
non-cell-autonomous fashion. Here we show that in globally MeCP2-deficient mice, 
re-expression of Mecp2 preferentially in astrocytes significantly improved
locomotion and anxiety levels, restored respiratory abnormalities to a normal
pattern, and greatly prolonged lifespan compared to globally null mice.
Furthermore, restoration of MeCP2 in the mutant astrocytes exerted a
non-cell-autonomous positive effect on mutant neurons in vivo, restoring normal
dendritic morphology and increasing levels of the excitatory glutamate
transporter VGLUT1. Our study shows that glia, like neurons, are integral
components of the neuropathology of RTT, and supports the targeting of glia as a 
strategy for improving the associated symptoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10214 
PMCID: PMC3268776
PMID: 21716289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;475(7354):59-64. doi: 10.1038/nature10191.

Crystal structure of a copper-transporting PIB-type ATPase.

Gourdon P(1), Liu XY, Skjørringe T, Morth JP, Møller LB, Pedersen BP, Nissen P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease-PUMPKIN, Danish National
Research Foundation, Aarhus University, Department of Molecular Biology, Gustav
Wieds Vej 10C, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):41-2.

Heavy-metal homeostasis and detoxification is crucial for cell viability. P-type 
ATPases of the class IB (PIB) are essential in these processes, actively
extruding heavy metals from the cytoplasm of cells. Here we present the structure
of a PIB-ATPase, a Legionella pneumophila CopA Cu(+)-ATPase, in a copper-free
form, as determined by X-ray crystallography at 3.2 Å resolution. The structure
indicates a three-stage copper transport pathway involving several conserved
residues. A PIB-specific transmembrane helix kinks at a double-glycine motif
displaying an amphipathic helix that lines a putative copper entry point at the
intracellular interface. Comparisons to Ca(2+)-ATPase suggest an ATPase-coupled
copper release mechanism from the binding sites in the membrane via an
extracellular exit site. The structure also provides a framework to analyse
missense mutations in the human ATP7A and ATP7B proteins associated with Menkes' 
and Wilson's diseases.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10191 
PMID: 21716286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Nature. 2011 Jun 29;475(7354):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10224.

Thermal spin current from a ferromagnet to silicon by Seebeck spin tunnelling.

Le Breton JC(1), Sharma S, Saito H, Yuasa S, Jansen R.

Author information: 
(1)Netherlands Foundation for Fundamental Research on Matter (FOM), 3502 GA
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Heat generation by electric current, which is ubiquitous in electronic devices
and circuits, raises energy consumption and will become increasingly problematic 
in future generations of high-density electronics. The control and re-use of heat
are therefore important topics for existing and emerging technologies, including 
spintronics. Recently it was reported that heat flow within a ferromagnet can
produce a flow of spin angular momentum-a spin current-and an associated voltage.
This spin Seebeck effect has been observed in metallic, insulating and
semiconductor ferromagnets with temperature gradients across them. Here we
describe and report the demonstration of Seebeck spin tunnelling-a distinctly
different thermal spin flow, of purely interfacial nature-generated in a tunnel
contact between electrodes of different temperatures when at least one of the
electrodes is a ferromagnet. The Seebeck spin current is governed by the energy
derivative of the tunnel spin polarization. By exploiting this in
ferromagnet-oxide-silicon tunnel junctions, we observe thermal transfer of spins 
from the ferromagnet to the silicon without a net tunnel charge current. The
induced spin accumulation scales linearly with heating power and changes sign
when the temperature differential is reversed. This thermal spin current can be
used by itself, or in combination with electrical spin injection, to increase
device efficiency. The results highlight the engineering of heat transport in
spintronic devices and facilitate the functional use of heat.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10224 
PMID: 21716285 


441. Nature. 2011 Jun 26;475(7355):217-21. doi: 10.1038/nature10177.

In vivo genome editing restores haemostasis in a mouse model of haemophilia.

Li H(1), Haurigot V, Doyon Y, Li T, Wong SY, Bhagwat AS, Malani N, Anguela XM,
Sharma R, Ivanciu L, Murphy SL, Finn JD, Khazi FR, Zhou S, Paschon DE, Rebar EJ, 
Bushman FD, Gregory PD, Holmes MC, High KA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, CTRB 5000, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 3501
Civic Center Boulevard, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Editing of the human genome to correct disease-causing mutations is a promising
approach for the treatment of genetic disorders. Genome editing improves on
simple gene-replacement strategies by effecting in situ correction of a mutant
gene, thus restoring normal gene function under the control of endogenous
regulatory elements and reducing risks associated with random insertion into the 
genome. Gene-specific targeting has historically been limited to mouse embryonic 
stem cells. The development of zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs) has permitted
efficient genome editing in transformed and primary cells that were previously
thought to be intractable to such genetic manipulation. In vitro, ZFNs have been 
shown to promote efficient genome editing via homology-directed repair by
inducing a site-specific double-strand break (DSB) at a target locus, but it is
unclear whether ZFNs can induce DSBs and stimulate genome editing at a clinically
meaningful level in vivo. Here we show that ZFNs are able to induce DSBs
efficiently when delivered directly to mouse liver and that, when co-delivered
with an appropriately designed gene-targeting vector, they can stimulate gene
replacement through both homology-directed and homology-independent targeted gene
insertion at the ZFN-specified locus. The level of gene targeting achieved was
sufficient to correct the prolonged clotting times in a mouse model of
haemophilia B, and remained persistent after induced liver regeneration. Thus,
ZFN-driven gene correction can be achieved in vivo, raising the possibility of
genome editing as a viable strategy for the treatment of genetic disease.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10177 
PMCID: PMC3152293
PMID: 21706032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 2011 Jun 26;475(7357):501-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10193.

Functional mapping of single spines in cortical neurons in vivo.

Chen X(1), Leischner U, Rochefort NL, Nelken I, Konnerth A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and Center for Integrated Protein Science, Technical
University Munich, Biedersteinerstrasse 29, 80802 Munich, Germany.

The individual functional properties and spatial arrangement of afferent synaptic
inputs on dendrites have a critical role in the processing of information by
neurons in the mammalian brain. Although recent work has identified
visually-evoked local dendritic calcium signals in the rodent visual cortex,
sensory-evoked signalling on the level of dendritic spines, corresponding to
individual afferent excitatory synapses, remains unexplored. Here we used a new
variant of high-resolution two-photon imaging to detect sensory-evoked calcium
transients in single dendritic spines of mouse cortical neurons in vivo. Calcium 
signals evoked by sound stimulation required the activation of NMDA
(N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors. Active spines are widely distributed on basal
and apical dendrites and pure-tone stimulation at different frequencies revealed 
both narrowly and widely tuned spines. Notably, spines tuned for different
frequencies were highly interspersed on the same dendrites: even neighbouring
spines were mostly tuned to different frequencies. Thus, our results demonstrate 
that NMDA-receptor-dependent single-spine synaptic inputs to the same dendrite
are highly heterogeneous. Furthermore, our study opens the way for in vivo
mapping of functionally defined afferent sensory inputs with single-synapse
resolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10193 
PMID: 21706031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;474(7352):498-501. doi: 10.1038/nature10190.

City living and urban upbringing affect neural social stress processing in
humans.

Lederbogen F(1), Kirsch P, Haddad L, Streit F, Tost H, Schuch P, Wüst S,
Pruessner JC, Rietschel M, Deuschle M, Meyer-Lindenberg A.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute of Mental Health, University of Heidelberg/Medical Faculty
Mannheim, 68159 Mannheim, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 23;474(7352):452-3.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Aug;12(8):430.

More than half of the world's population now lives in cities, making the creation
of a healthy urban environment a major policy priority. Cities have both health
risks and benefits, but mental health is negatively affected: mood and anxiety
disorders are more prevalent in city dwellers and the incidence of schizophrenia 
is strongly increased in people born and raised in cities. Although these
findings have been widely attributed to the urban social environment, the neural 
processes that could mediate such associations are unknown. Here we show, using
functional magnetic resonance imaging in three independent experiments, that
urban upbringing and city living have dissociable impacts on social evaluative
stress processing in humans. Current city living was associated with increased
amygdala activity, whereas urban upbringing affected the perigenual anterior
cingulate cortex, a key region for regulation of amygdala activity, negative
affect and stress. These findings were regionally and behaviourally specific, as 
no other brain structures were affected and no urbanicity effect was seen during 
control experiments invoking cognitive processing without stress. Our results
identify distinct neural mechanisms for an established environmental risk factor,
link the urban environment for the first time to social stress processing,
suggest that brain regions differ in vulnerability to this risk factor across the
lifespan, and indicate that experimental interrogation of epidemiological
associations is a promising strategy in social neuroscience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10190 
PMID: 21697947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;474(7352):494-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10164.

Flying in a flock comes at a cost in pigeons.

Usherwood JR(1), Stavrou M, Lowe JC, Roskilly K, Wilson AM.

Author information: 
(1)Structure and Motion Laboratory, The Royal Veterinary College, University of
London, North Mymms, Hatfield AL9 7TA, UK. jusherwood@rvc.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 23;474(7352):458-9.

Flying birds often form flocks, with social, navigational and anti-predator
implications. Further, flying in a flock can result in aerodynamic benefits, thus
reducing power requirements, as demonstrated by a reduction in heart rate and
wingbeat frequency in pelicans flying in a V-formation. But how general is an
aerodynamic power reduction due to group-flight? V-formation flocks are limited
to moderately steady flight in relatively large birds, and may represent a
special case. What are the aerodynamic consequences of flying in the more usual
'cluster' flock? Here we use data from innovative back-mounted Global Positioning
System (GPS) and 6-degrees-of-freedom inertial sensors to show that pigeons (1)
maintain powered, banked turns like aircraft, imposing dorsal accelerations of up
to 2g, effectively doubling body weight and quadrupling induced power
requirements; (2) increase flap frequency with increases in all conventional
aerodynamic power requirements; and (3) increase flap frequency when flying near,
particularly behind, other birds. Therefore, unlike V-formation pelicans, pigeons
do not gain an aerodynamic advantage from flying in a flock. Indeed, the
increased flap frequency, whether due to direct aerodynamic interactions or
requirements for increased stability or control, suggests a considerable
energetic cost to flight in a tight cluster flock.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10164 
PMCID: PMC3162477
PMID: 21697946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;474(7352):490-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10119.

Experimental non-classicality of an indivisible quantum system.

Lapkiewicz R(1), Li P, Schaeff C, Langford NK, Ramelow S, Wieśniak M, Zeilinger
A.

Author information: 
(1)Vienna Center for Quantum Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics,
University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, Vienna A-1090, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 23;474(7352):456-8.

In contrast to classical physics, quantum theory demands that not all properties 
can be simultaneously well defined; the Heisenberg uncertainty principle is a
manifestation of this fact. Alternatives have been explored--notably theories
relying on joint probability distributions or non-contextual hidden-variable
models, in which the properties of a system are defined independently of their
own measurement and any other measurements that are made. Various deep
theoretical results imply that such theories are in conflict with quantum
mechanics. Simpler cases demonstrating this conflict have been found and tested
experimentally with pairs of quantum bits (qubits). Recently, an inequality
satisfied by non-contextual hidden-variable models and violated by quantum
mechanics for all states of two qubits was introduced and tested experimentally. 
A single three-state system (a qutrit) is the simplest system in which such a
contradiction is possible; moreover, the contradiction cannot result from
entanglement between subsystems, because such a three-state system is
indivisible. Here we report an experiment with single photonic qutrits which
provides evidence that no joint probability distribution describing the outcomes 
of all possible measurements--and, therefore, no non-contextual theory--can
exist. Specifically, we observe a violation of the Bell-type inequality found by 
Klyachko, Can, Binicioğlu and Shumovsky. Our results illustrate a deep
incompatibility between quantum mechanics and classical physics that cannot in
any way result from entanglement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10119 
PMID: 21697945 


446. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;474(7352):461-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10197.

Regioselective reactions for programmable resveratrol oligomer synthesis.

Snyder SA(1), Gollner A, Chiriac MI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, Havemeyer Hall, 3000 Broadway,
New York, New York 10027, USA. sas2197@columbia.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 23;474(7352):459-60.

Although much attention has been devoted to resveratrol, a unique polyphenol
produced by plants and credited as potentially being responsible for the 'French 
paradox'--the observation that French people have a relatively low incidence of
coronary heart disease, even though their diet is high in saturated fats--the
oligomers of resveratrol have been largely ignored despite their high biological 
activity. Challenges in achieving their isolation in sufficient quantity from
natural sources, coupled with an inability to prepare them easily synthetically, 
are seen as the main obstacles. Here we report a programmable, controlled and
potentially scalable synthesis of the resveratrol family via a three-stage
design. The synthetic approach requires strategy- and reagent-guided chemical
functionalizations to differentiate two distinct cores possessing multiple sites 
with the same or similar reactivity, ultimately leading to five higher-order
natural products. This work demonstrates that challenging, positionally selective
functionalizations of complex materials are possible where biosynthetic studies
have indicated otherwise, it provides materials and tools with which to unlock
the full biochemical potential of this family of natural products, and it affords
an intellectual framework within which other oligomeric families could
potentially be accessed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10197 
PMCID: PMC3179663
PMID: 21697944  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;475(7354):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature10082.

Tracking apex marine predator movements in a dynamic ocean.

Block BA(1), Jonsen ID, Jorgensen SJ, Winship AJ, Shaffer SA, Bograd SJ, Hazen
EL, Foley DG, Breed GA, Harrison AL, Ganong JE, Swithenbank A, Castleton M, Dewar
H, Mate BR, Shillinger GL, Schaefer KM, Benson SR, Weise MJ, Henry RW, Costa DP.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University, Biology Department, Hopkins Marine Station, Pacific
Grove, California 93950, USA. bblock@stanford.edu

Pelagic marine predators face unprecedented challenges and uncertain futures.
Overexploitation and climate variability impact the abundance and distribution of
top predators in ocean ecosystems. Improved understanding of ecological patterns,
evolutionary constraints and ecosystem function is critical for preventing
extinctions, loss of biodiversity and disruption of ecosystem services. Recent
advances in electronic tagging techniques have provided the capacity to observe
the movements and long-distance migrations of animals in relation to ocean
processes across a range of ecological scales. Tagging of Pacific Predators, a
field programme of the Census of Marine Life, deployed 4,306 tags on 23 species
in the North Pacific Ocean, resulting in a tracking data set of unprecedented
scale and species diversity that covers 265,386 tracking days from 2000 to 2009. 
Here we report migration pathways, link ocean features to multispecies hotspots
and illustrate niche partitioning within and among congener guilds. Our results
indicate that the California Current large marine ecosystem and the North Pacific
transition zone attract and retain a diverse assemblage of marine vertebrates.
Within the California Current large marine ecosystem, several predator guilds
seasonally undertake north-south migrations that may be driven by oceanic
processes, species-specific thermal tolerances and shifts in prey distributions. 
We identify critical habitats across multinational boundaries and show that top
predators exploit their environment in predictable ways, providing the foundation
for spatial management of large marine ecosystems.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10082 
PMID: 21697831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;474(7353):620-2. doi: 10.1038/nature10175.

A salt-water reservoir as the source of a compositionally stratified plume on
Enceladus.

Postberg F(1), Schmidt J, Hillier J, Kempf S, Srama R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Geowissenschaften, Universität Heidelberg, 69120 Heidelberg,
Germany. Frank.Postberg@mpi-hd.mpg.de

The discovery of a plume of water vapour and ice particles emerging from warm
fractures ('tiger stripes') in Saturn's small, icy moon Enceladus raised the
question of whether the plume emerges from a subsurface liquid source or from the
decomposition of ice. Previous compositional analyses of particles injected by
the plume into Saturn's diffuse E ring have already indicated the presence of
liquid water, but the mechanisms driving the plume emission are still debated.
Here we report an analysis of the composition of freshly ejected particles close 
to the sources. Salt-rich ice particles are found to dominate the total mass flux
of ejected solids (more than 99 per cent) but they are depleted in the population
escaping into Saturn's E ring. Ice grains containing organic compounds are found 
to be more abundant in dense parts of the plume. Whereas previous Cassini
observations were compatible with a variety of plume formation mechanisms, these 
data eliminate or severely constrain non-liquid models and strongly imply that a 
salt-water reservoir with a large evaporating surface provides nearly all of the 
matter in the plume.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10175 
PMID: 21697830 


449. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;475(7354):114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10118.

XUTs are a class of Xrn1-sensitive antisense regulatory non-coding RNA in yeast.

van Dijk EL(1), Chen CL, d'Aubenton-Carafa Y, Gourvennec S, Kwapisz M, Roche V,
Bertrand C, Silvain M, Legoix-Né P, Loeillet S, Nicolas A, Thermes C, Morillon A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Génétique Moléculaire (CNRS UPR 3404), avenue de la Terrasse, 91198 
Gif sur Yvette, France.

Non-coding (nc)RNAs are key players in numerous biological processes such as gene
regulation, chromatin domain formation and genome stability. Large ncRNAs
interact with histone modifiers and are involved in cancer development,
X-chromosome inactivation and autosomal gene imprinting. However, despite recent 
evidence showing that pervasive transcription is more widespread than previously 
thought, only a few examples mediating gene regulation in eukaryotes have been
described. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the bona-fide regulatory ncRNAs are
destabilized by the Xrn1 5'-3' RNA exonuclease (also known as Kem1), but the
genome-wide characterization of the entire regulatory ncRNA family remains
elusive. Here, using strand-specific RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), we identify a
novel class of 1,658 Xrn1-sensitive unstable transcripts (XUTs) in which 66% are 
antisense to open reading frames. These transcripts are polyadenylated and RNA
polymerase II (RNAPII)-dependent. The majority of XUTs strongly accumulate in
lithium-containing media, indicating that they might have a role in adaptive
responses to changes in growth conditions. Notably, RNAPII chromatin
immunoprecipitation followed by DNA sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis of
Xrn1-deficient strains revealed a significant decrease of RNAPII occupancy over
273 genes with antisense XUTs. These genes show an unusual bias for H3K4me3 marks
and require the Set1 histone H3 lysine 4 methyl-transferase for silencing.
Furthermore, abolishing H3K4me3 triggers the silencing of other genes with
antisense XUTs, supporting a model in which H3K4me3 antagonizes antisense ncRNA
repressive activity. Our results demonstrate that antisense ncRNA-mediated
regulation is a general regulatory pathway for gene expression in S. cerevisiae.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10118 
PMID: 21697827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nature. 2011 Jun 22;475(7354):65-70. doi: 10.1038/nature10236.

Structure of the human histamine H1 receptor complex with doxepin.

Shimamura T(1), Shiroishi M, Weyand S, Tsujimoto H, Winter G, Katritch V, Abagyan
R, Cherezov V, Liu W, Han GW, Kobayashi T, Stevens RC, Iwata S.

Author information: 
(1)Human Receptor Crystallography Project, ERATO, Japan Science and Technology
Agency, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

The biogenic amine histamine is an important pharmacological mediator involved in
pathophysiological processes such as allergies and inflammations. Histamine H(1) 
receptor (H(1)R) antagonists are very effective drugs alleviating the symptoms of
allergic reactions. Here we show the crystal structure of the H(1)R complex with 
doxepin, a first-generation H(1)R antagonist. Doxepin sits deep in the
ligand-binding pocket and directly interacts with Trp 428(6.48), a highly
conserved key residue in G-protein-coupled-receptor activation. This
well-conserved pocket with mostly hydrophobic nature contributes to the low
selectivity of the first-generation compounds. The pocket is associated with an
anion-binding region occupied by a phosphate ion. Docking of various
second-generation H(1)R antagonists reveals that the unique carboxyl group
present in this class of compounds interacts with Lys 191(5.39) and/or
Lys 179(ECL2), both of which form part of the anion-binding region. This region
is not conserved in other aminergic receptors, demonstrating how minor
differences in receptors lead to pronounced selectivity differences with small
molecules. Our study sheds light on the molecular basis of H(1)R antagonist
specificity against H(1)R.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10236 
PMCID: PMC3131495
PMID: 21697825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 2011 Jun 19;476(7360):336-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10230.

A forty-kilodalton protein of the inner membrane is the mitochondrial calcium
uniporter.

De Stefani D(1), Raffaello A, Teardo E, Szabò I, Rizzuto R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, University of Padua, 35121 Padua, Italy.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Aug;12(8):463.

Mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis has a key role in the regulation of aerobic
metabolism and cell survival, but the molecular identity of the Ca(2+) channel,
the mitochondrial calcium uniporter, is still unknown. Here we have identified in
silico a protein (named MCU) that shares tissue distribution with MICU1 (also
known as CBARA1), a recently characterized uniporter regulator, is present in
organisms in which mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake was demonstrated and whose
sequence includes two transmembrane domains. Short interfering RNA (siRNA)
silencing of MCU in HeLa cells markedly reduced mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake. MCU 
overexpression doubled the matrix Ca(2+) concentration increase evoked by
inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-generating agonists, thus significantly buffering
the cytosolic elevation. The purified MCU protein showed channel activity in
planar lipid bilayers, with electrophysiological properties and inhibitor
sensitivity of the uniporter. A mutant MCU, in which two negatively charged
residues of the putative pore-forming region were replaced, had no channel
activity and reduced agonist-dependent matrix Ca(2+) concentration transients
when overexpressed in HeLa cells. Overall, these data demonstrate that the 40-kDa
protein identified is the channel responsible for ruthenium-red-sensitive
mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake, thus providing a molecular basis for this process of
utmost physiological and pathological relevance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10230 
PMCID: PMC4141877
PMID: 21685888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 2011 Jun 19;475(7354):110-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10134.

Intravenous gammaglobulin suppresses inflammation through a novel T(H)2 pathway.

Anthony RM(1), Kobayashi T, Wermeling F, Ravetch JV.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Immunology, The Rockefeller University,
1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2012 Oct;12(10):2567.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Aug;11(8):499.

High-dose intravenous immunoglobulin is a widely used therapeutic preparation of 
highly purified immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies. It is administered at high
doses (1-2 grams per kilogram) for the suppression of autoantibody-triggered
inflammation in a variety of clinical settings. This anti-inflammatory activity
of intravenous immunoglobulin is triggered by a minor population of IgG
crystallizable fragments (Fcs), with glycans terminating in α2,6 sialic acids
(sFc) that target myeloid regulatory cells expressing the lectin
dendritic-cell-specific ICAM-3 grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN; also known as
CD209). Here, to characterize this response in detail, we generated humanized
DC-SIGN mice (hDC-SIGN), and demonstrate that the anti-inflammatory activity of
intravenous immunoglobulin can be recapitulated by the transfer of
bone-marrow-derived sFc-treated hDC-SIGN(+) macrophages or dendritic cells into
naive recipients. Furthermore, sFc administration results in the production of
IL-33, which, in turn, induces expansion of IL-4-producing basophils that promote
increased expression of the inhibitory Fc receptor FcγRIIB on effector
macrophages. Systemic administration of the T(H)2 cytokines IL-33 or IL-4
upregulates FcγRIIB on macrophages, and suppresses serum-induced arthritis.
Consistent with these results, transfer of IL-33-treated basophils suppressed
induced arthritic inflammation. This novel DC-SIGN-T(H)2 pathway initiated by an 
endogenous ligand, sFc, provides an intrinsic mechanism for maintaining immune
homeostasis that could be manipulated to provide therapeutic benefit in
autoimmune diseases.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10134 
PMCID: PMC3694429
PMID: 21685887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 2011 Jun 19;476(7360):341-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10234.

Integrative genomics identifies MCU as an essential component of the
mitochondrial calcium uniporter.

Baughman JM(1), Perocchi F, Girgis HS, Plovanich M, Belcher-Timme CA, Sancak Y,
Bao XR, Strittmatter L, Goldberger O, Bogorad RL, Koteliansky V, Mootha VK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Mitochondria from diverse organisms are capable of transporting large amounts of 
Ca(2+) via a ruthenium-red-sensitive, membrane-potential-dependent mechanism
called the uniporter. Although the uniporter's biophysical properties have been
studied extensively, its molecular composition remains elusive. We recently used 
comparative proteomics to identify MICU1 (also known as CBARA1), an
EF-hand-containing protein that serves as a putative regulator of the uniporter. 
Here, we use whole-genome phylogenetic profiling, genome-wide RNA co-expression
analysis and organelle-wide protein coexpression analysis to predict proteins
functionally related to MICU1. All three methods converge on a novel predicted
transmembrane protein, CCDC109A, that we now call 'mitochondrial calcium
uniporter' (MCU). MCU forms oligomers in the mitochondrial inner membrane,
physically interacts with MICU1, and resides within a large molecular weight
complex. Silencing MCU in cultured cells or in vivo in mouse liver severely
abrogates mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake, whereas mitochondrial respiration and
membrane potential remain fully intact. MCU has two predicted transmembrane
helices, which are separated by a highly conserved linker facing the
intermembrane space. Acidic residues in this linker are required for its full
activity. However, an S259A point mutation retains function but confers
resistance to Ru360, the most potent inhibitor of the uniporter. Our genomic,
physiological, biochemical and pharmacological data firmly establish MCU as an
essential component of the mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10234 
PMCID: PMC3486726
PMID: 21685886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):395-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10165.

Converting nonsense codons into sense codons by targeted pseudouridylation.

Karijolich J(1), Yu YT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Rochester Medical
Center, 601 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14642, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):289-90.

All three translation termination codons, or nonsense codons, contain a uridine
residue at the first position of the codon. Here, we demonstrate that
pseudouridylation (conversion of uridine into pseudouridine (Ψ), ref. 4) of
nonsense codons suppresses translation termination both in vitro and in vivo. In 
vivo targeting of nonsense codons is accomplished by the expression of an H/ACA
RNA capable of directing the isomerization of uridine to Ψ within the nonsense
codon. Thus, targeted pseudouridylation represents a novel approach for promoting
nonsense suppression in vivo. Remarkably, we also show that pseudouridylated
nonsense codons code for amino acids with similar properties. Specifically, ΨAA
and ΨAG code for serine and threonine, whereas ΨGA codes for tyrosine and
phenylalanine, thus suggesting a new mode of decoding. Our results also suggest
that RNA modification, as a naturally occurring mechanism, may offer a new way to
expand the genetic code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10165 
PMCID: PMC3381908
PMID: 21677757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):367-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10125.

Modular and predictable assembly of porous organic molecular crystals.

Jones JT(1), Hasell T, Wu X, Bacsa J, Jelfs KE, Schmidtmann M, Chong SY, Adams
DJ, Trewin A, Schiffman F, Cora F, Slater B, Steiner A, Day GM, Cooper AI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Centre for Materials Discovery, University of
Liverpool, Crown Street, Liverpool L69 7ZD, UK.

Nanoporous molecular frameworks are important in applications such as separation,
storage and catalysis. Empirical rules exist for their assembly but it is still
challenging to place and segregate functionality in three-dimensional porous
solids in a predictable way. Indeed, recent studies of mixed crystalline
frameworks suggest a preference for the statistical distribution of
functionalities throughout the pores rather than, for example, the functional
group localization found in the reactive sites of enzymes. This is a potential
limitation for 'one-pot' chemical syntheses of porous frameworks from simple
starting materials. An alternative strategy is to prepare porous solids from
synthetically preorganized molecular pores. In principle, functional organic pore
modules could be covalently prefabricated and then assembled to produce materials
with specific properties. However, this vision of mix-and-match assembly is far
from being realized, not least because of the challenge in reliably predicting
three-dimensional structures for molecular crystals, which lack the strong
directional bonding found in networks. Here we show that highly porous
crystalline solids can be produced by mixing different organic cage modules that 
self-assemble by means of chiral recognition. The structures of the resulting
materials can be predicted computationally, allowing in silico materials design
strategies. The constituent pore modules are synthesized in high yields on gram
scales in a one-step reaction. Assembly of the porous co-crystals is as simple as
combining the modules in solution and removing the solvent. In some cases, the
chiral recognition between modules can be exploited to produce porous organic
nanoparticles. We show that the method is valid for four different cage modules
and can in principle be generalized in a computationally predictable manner based
on a lock-and-key assembly between modules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10125 
PMID: 21677756 


456. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):362-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10148.

Emerging local Kondo screening and spatial coherence in the heavy-fermion metal
YbRh2Si2.

Ernst S(1), Kirchner S, Krellner C, Geibel C, Zwicknagl G, Steglich F, Wirth S.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Nöthnitzer Strasse 40,
01187 Dresden, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):290-1.

The entanglement of quantum states is both a central concept in fundamental
physics and a potential tool for realizing advanced materials and applications.
The quantum superpositions underlying entanglement are at the heart of the
intricate interplay of localized spin states and itinerant electronic states that
gives rise to the Kondo effect in certain dilute magnetic alloys. In systems
where the density of localized spin states is sufficiently high, they can no
longer be treated as non-interacting; if they form a dense periodic array, a
Kondo lattice may be established. Such a Kondo lattice gives rise to the
emergence of charge carriers with enhanced effective masses, but the precise
nature of the coherent Kondo state responsible for the generation of these heavy 
fermions remains highly debated. Here we use atomic-resolution tunnelling
spectroscopy to investigate the low-energy excitations of a generic Kondo lattice
system, YbRh(2)Si(2). We find that the hybridization of the conduction electrons 
with the localized 4f electrons results in a decrease in the tunnelling
conductance at the Fermi energy. In addition, we observe unambiguously the
crystal-field excitations of the Yb(3+) ions. A strongly temperature-dependent
peak in the tunnelling conductance is attributed to the Fano resonance resulting 
from tunnelling into the coherent heavy-fermion states that emerge at low
temperature. Taken together, these features reveal how quantum coherence develops
in heavy 4f-electron Kondo lattices. Our results demonstrate the efficiency of
real-space electronic structure imaging for the investigation of strong
electronic correlations, specifically with respect to coherence phenomena, phase 
coexistence and quantum criticality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10148 
PMID: 21677755 


457. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):359-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10115.

Zero outward flow velocity for plasma in a heliosheath transition layer.

Krimigis SM(1), Roelof EC, Decker RB, Hill ME.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Physics Laboratory, The Johns Hopkins University, Laurel, Maryland
20723, USA. tom.krimigis@jhuapl.edu

Voyager 1 has been in the reservoir of energetic ions and electrons that
constitutes the heliosheath since it crossed the solar wind termination shock on 
16 December 2004 at a distance from the Sun of 94 astronomical units (1 AU =
1.5 × 10(8) km). It is now ∼22 AU past the termination shock crossing. The bulk
velocity of the plasma in the radial-transverse plane has been determined using
measurements of the anisotropy of the convected energetic ion distribution. Here 
we report that the radial component of the velocity has been decreasing almost
linearly over the past three years, from ∼70 km s(-1) to ∼0 km s(-1), where it
has remained for the past eight months. It now seems that Voyager 1 has entered a
finite transition layer of zero-radial-velocity plasma flow, indicating that the 
spacecraft may be close to the heliopause, the border between the heliosheath and
the interstellar plasma. The existence of a flow transition layer in the
heliosheath contradicts current predictions--generally assumed by conceptual
models--of a sharp discontinuity at the heliopause.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10115 
PMID: 21677754 


458. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):356-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10103.

Black hole growth in the early Universe is self-regulated and largely hidden from
view.

Treister E(1), Schawinski K, Volonteri M, Natarajan P, Gawiser E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Astronomy, 2680 Woodlawn Drive, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, 
Hawaii 96822, USA. treister@ifa.hawaii.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2017 Jun 7;546(7657):316.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):293-4.

The formation of the first massive objects in the infant Universe remains
impossible to observe directly and yet it sets the stage for the subsequent
evolution of galaxies. Although some black holes with masses more than 10(9)
times that of the Sun have been detected in luminous quasars less than one
billion years after the Big Bang, these individual extreme objects have limited
utility in constraining the channels of formation of the earliest black holes;
this is because the initial conditions of black hole seed properties are quickly 
erased during the growth process. Here we report a measurement of the amount of
black hole growth in galaxies at redshift z = 6-8 (0.95-0.7 billion years after
the Big Bang), based on optimally stacked, archival X-ray observations. Our
results imply that black holes grow in tandem with their host galaxies throughout
cosmic history, starting from the earliest times. We find that most copiously
accreting black holes at these epochs are buried in significant amounts of gas
and dust that absorb most radiation except for the highest-energy X-rays. This
suggests that black holes grew significantly more during these early bursts than 
was previously thought, but because of the obscuration of their ultraviolet
emission they did not contribute to the re-ionization of the Universe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10103 
PMID: 21677753 


459. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):350-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10151.

X-ray structure of a bacterial oligosaccharyltransferase.

Lizak C(1), Gerber S, Numao S, Aebi M, Locher KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Department of Biology, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):292-3.

Asparagine-linked glycosylation is a post-translational modification of proteins 
containing the conserved sequence motif Asn-X-Ser/Thr. The attachment of
oligosaccharides is implicated in diverse processes such as protein folding and
quality control, organism development or host-pathogen interactions. The reaction
is catalysed by oligosaccharyltransferase (OST), a membrane protein complex
located in the endoplasmic reticulum. The central, catalytic enzyme of OST is the
STT3 subunit, which has homologues in bacteria and archaea. Here we report the
X-ray structure of a bacterial OST, the PglB protein of Campylobacter lari, in
complex with an acceptor peptide. The structure defines the fold of STT3 proteins
and provides insight into glycosylation sequon recognition and amide nitrogen
activation, both of which are prerequisites for the formation of the N-glycosidic
linkage. We also identified and validated catalytically important, acidic amino
acid residues. Our results provide the molecular basis for understanding the
mechanism of N-linked glycosylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10151 
PMID: 21677752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):343-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10152.

Latent TGF-β structure and activation.

Shi M(1), Zhu J, Wang R, Chen X, Mi L, Walz T, Springer TA.

Author information: 
(1)Immune Disease Institute, Children's Hospital Boston and Department of
Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Transforming growth factor (TGF)-β is stored in the extracellular matrix as a
latent complex with its prodomain. Activation of TGF-β1 requires the binding of
α(v) integrin to an RGD sequence in the prodomain and exertion of force on this
domain, which is held in the extracellular matrix by latent TGF-β binding
proteins. Crystals of dimeric porcine proTGF-β1 reveal a ring-shaped complex, a
novel fold for the prodomain, and show how the prodomain shields the growth
factor from recognition by receptors and alters its conformation. Complex
formation between α(v)β(6) integrin and the prodomain is insufficient for TGF-β1 
release. Force-dependent activation requires unfastening of a 'straitjacket' that
encircles each growth-factor monomer at a position that can be locked by a
disulphide bond. Sequences of all 33 TGF-β family members indicate a similar
prodomain fold. The structure provides insights into the regulation of a family
of growth and differentiation factors of fundamental importance in morphogenesis 
and homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10152 
PMCID: PMC4717672
PMID: 21677751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):337-42. doi: 10.1038/nature10163.

A conditional knockout resource for the genome-wide study of mouse gene function.

Skarnes WC(1), Rosen B, West AP, Koutsourakis M, Bushell W, Iyer V, Mujica AO,
Thomas M, Harrow J, Cox T, Jackson D, Severin J, Biggs P, Fu J, Nefedov M, de
Jong PJ, Stewart AF, Bradley A.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK. skarnes@sanger.ac.uk

Gene targeting in embryonic stem cells has become the principal technology for
manipulation of the mouse genome, offering unrivalled accuracy in allele design
and access to conditional mutagenesis. To bring these advantages to the wider
research community, large-scale mouse knockout programmes are producing a
permanent resource of targeted mutations in all protein-coding genes. Here we
report the establishment of a high-throughput gene-targeting pipeline for the
generation of reporter-tagged, conditional alleles. Computational allele design, 
96-well modular vector construction and high-efficiency gene-targeting strategies
have been combined to mutate genes on an unprecedented scale. So far, more than
12,000 vectors and 9,000 conditional targeted alleles have been produced in
highly germline-competent C57BL/6N embryonic stem cells. High-throughput genome
engineering highlighted by this study is broadly applicable to rat and human stem
cells and provides a foundation for future genome-wide efforts aimed at
deciphering the function of all genes encoded by the mammalian genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10163 
PMCID: PMC3572410
PMID: 21677750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):327-36. doi: 10.1038/nature10213.

Human nutrition, the gut microbiome and the immune system.

Kau AL(1), Ahern PP, Griffin NW, Goodman AL, Gordon JI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Marked changes in socio-economic status, cultural traditions, population growth
and agriculture are affecting diets worldwide. Understanding how our diet and
nutritional status influence the composition and dynamic operations of our gut
microbial communities, and the innate and adaptive arms of our immune system,
represents an area of scientific need, opportunity and challenge. The insights
gleaned should help to address several pressing global health problems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10213 
PMCID: PMC3298082
PMID: 21677749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):318-26. doi: 10.1038/nature10212.

Microenvironmental regulation of stem cells in intestinal homeostasis and cancer.

Medema JP(1), Vermeulen L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Oncology and Radiobiology, Center for Experimental 
Molecular Medicine, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam 1105AZ, The Netherlands.
j.p.medema@amc.nl

The identification of intestinal stem cells as well as their malignant
counterparts, colon cancer stem cells, has undergone rapid development in recent 
years. Under physiological conditions, intestinal homeostasis is a carefully
balanced and efficient interplay between stem cells, their progeny and the
microenvironment. These interactions regulate the astonishingly rapid renewal of 
the intestinal epithelial layer, which consequently puts us at serious risk of
developing cancer. Here we highlight the microenvironment-derived signals that
regulate stem-cell fate and epithelial differentiation. As our understanding of
normal intestinal crypt homeostasis grows, these developments may point towards
new insights into the origin of cancer and the maintenance and regulation of
cancer stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10212 
PMID: 21677748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):307-17. doi: 10.1038/nature10209.

Genetics and pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease.

Khor B(1), Gardet A, Xavier RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit and Center for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA.

Recent advances have provided substantial insight into the maintenance of mucosal
immunity and the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. Cellular programs
responsible for intestinal homeostasis use diverse intracellular and
intercellular networks to promote immune tolerance, inflammation or epithelial
restitution. Complex interfaces integrate local host and microbial signals to
activate appropriate effector programs selectively and even drive plasticity
between these programs. In addition, genetic studies and mouse models have
emphasized the role of genetic predispositions and how they affect interactions
with microbial and environmental factors, leading to pro-colitogenic
perturbations of the host-commensal relationship.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10209 
PMCID: PMC3204665
PMID: 21677747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;474(7351):298-306. doi: 10.1038/nature10208.

Intestinal homeostasis and its breakdown in inflammatory bowel disease.

Maloy KJ(1), Powrie F.

Author information: 
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, 
Oxford OX1 3RE, UK. kevin.maloy@path.ox.ac.uk

Intestinal homeostasis depends on complex interactions between the microbiota,
the intestinal epithelium and the host immune system. Diverse regulatory
mechanisms cooperate to maintain intestinal homeostasis, and a breakdown in these
pathways may precipitate the chronic inflammatory pathology found in inflammatory
bowel disease. It is now evident that immune effector modules that drive
intestinal inflammation are conserved across innate and adaptive leukocytes and
can be controlled by host regulatory cells. Recent evidence suggests that several
factors may tip the balance between homeostasis and intestinal inflammation,
presenting future challenges for the development of new therapies for
inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10208 
PMID: 21677746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;475(7356):373-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10227.

Coseismic and postseismic slip of the 2011 magnitude-9 Tohoku-Oki earthquake.

Ozawa S(1), Nishimura T, Suito H, Kobayashi T, Tobita M, Imakiire T.

Author information: 
(1)Geospatial Information Authority of Japan, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0811, Japan.
ozawa@gsi.go.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 21;475(7356):300-1.

Most large earthquakes occur along an oceanic trench, where an oceanic plate
subducts beneath a continental plate. Massive earthquakes with a moment
magnitude, M(w), of nine have been known to occur in only a few areas, including 
Chile, Alaska, Kamchatka and Sumatra. No historical records exist of a M(w) = 9
earthquake along the Japan trench, where the Pacific plate subducts beneath the
Okhotsk plate, with the possible exception of the ad 869 Jogan earthquake, the
magnitude of which has not been well constrained. However, the strain
accumulation rate estimated there from recent geodetic observations is much
higher than the average strain rate released in previous interplate earthquakes. 
This finding raises the question of how such areas release the accumulated
strain. A megathrust earthquake with M(w) = 9.0 (hereafter referred to as the
Tohoku-Oki earthquake) occurred on 11 March 2011, rupturing the plate boundary
off the Pacific coast of northeastern Japan. Here we report the distributions of 
the coseismic slip and postseismic slip as determined from ground displacement
detected using a network based on the Global Positioning System. The coseismic
slip area extends approximately 400 km along the Japan trench, matching the area 
of the pre-seismic locked zone. The afterslip has begun to overlap the coseismic 
slip area and extends into the surrounding region. In particular, the afterslip
area reached a depth of approximately 100 km, with M(w) = 8.3, on 25 March 2011. 
Because the Tohoku-Oki earthquake released the strain accumulated for several
hundred years, the paradox of the strain budget imbalance may be partly resolved.
This earthquake reminds us of the potential for M(w) ≈ 9 earthquakes to occur
along other trench systems, even if no past evidence of such events exists.
Therefore, it is imperative that strain accumulation be monitored using a space
geodetic technique to assess earthquake potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10227 
PMID: 21677648 


467. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;475(7355):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature10180.

Subunit arrangement and phenylethanolamine binding in GluN1/GluN2B NMDA
receptors.

Karakas E(1), Simorowski N, Furukawa H.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, WM Keck Structural Biology Laboratory, 1
Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.

Since it was discovered that the anti-hypertensive agent ifenprodil has
neuroprotective activity through its effects on NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate)
receptors, a determined effort has been made to understand the mechanism of
action and to develop improved therapeutic compounds on the basis of this
knowledge. Neurotransmission mediated by NMDA receptors is essential for basic
brain development and function. These receptors form heteromeric ion channels and
become activated after concurrent binding of glycine and glutamate to the GluN1
and GluN2 subunits, respectively. A functional hallmark of NMDA receptors is that
their ion-channel activity is allosterically regulated by binding of small
compounds to the amino-terminal domain (ATD) in a subtype-specific manner.
Ifenprodil and related phenylethanolamine compounds, which specifically inhibit
GluN1 and GluN2B NMDA receptors, have been intensely studied for their potential 
use in the treatment of various neurological disorders and diseases, including
depression, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Despite considerable
enthusiasm, mechanisms underlying the recognition of phenylethanolamines and
ATD-mediated allosteric inhibition remain limited owing to a lack of structural
information. Here we report that the GluN1 and GluN2B ATDs form a heterodimer and
that phenylethanolamine binds at the interface between GluN1 and GluN2B, rather
than within the GluN2B cleft. The crystal structure of the heterodimer formed
between the GluN1b ATD from Xenopus laevis and the GluN2B ATD from Rattus
norvegicus shows a highly distinct pattern of subunit arrangement that is
different from the arrangements observed in homodimeric non-NMDA receptors and
reveals the molecular determinants for phenylethanolamine binding. Restriction of
domain movement in the bi-lobed structure of the GluN2B ATD, by engineering of an
inter-subunit disulphide bond, markedly decreases sensitivity to ifenprodil,
indicating that conformational freedom in the GluN2B ATD is essential for
ifenprodil-mediated allosteric inhibition of NMDA receptors. These findings pave 
the way for improving the design of subtype-specific compounds with therapeutic
value for neurological disorders and diseases.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10180 
PMCID: PMC3171209
PMID: 21677647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;475(7354):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature10154.

Structure-based design of non-natural amino-acid inhibitors of amyloid fibril
formation.

Sievers SA(1), Karanicolas J, Chang HW, Zhao A, Jiang L, Zirafi O, Stevens JT,
Münch J, Baker D, Eisenberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, UCLA, Box
951970, Los Angeles, California 90095-1570, USA.

Many globular and natively disordered proteins can convert into amyloid fibrils. 
These fibrils are associated with numerous pathologies as well as with normal
cellular functions, and frequently form during protein denaturation. Inhibitors
of pathological amyloid fibril formation could be useful in the development of
therapeutics, provided that the inhibitors were specific enough to avoid
interfering with normal processes. Here we show that computer-aided,
structure-based design can yield highly specific peptide inhibitors of amyloid
formation. Using known atomic structures of segments of amyloid fibrils as
templates, we have designed and characterized an all-D-amino-acid inhibitor of
the fibril formation of the tau protein associated with Alzheimer's disease, and 
a non-natural L-amino-acid inhibitor of an amyloid fibril that enhances sexual
transmission of human immunodeficiency virus. Our results indicate that peptides 
from structure-based designs can disrupt the fibril formation of full-length
proteins, including those, such as tau protein, that lack fully ordered native
structures. Because the inhibiting peptides have been designed on structures of
dual-β-sheet 'steric zippers', the successful inhibition of amyloid fibril
formation strengthens the hypothesis that amyloid spines contain steric zippers.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10154 
PMCID: PMC4073670
PMID: 21677644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 2011 Jun 15;475(7354):91-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10130.

NMDA receptor blockade at rest triggers rapid behavioural antidepressant
responses.

Autry AE(1), Adachi M, Nosyreva E, Na ES, Los MF, Cheng PF, Kavalali ET,
Monteggia LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-9111, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Aug;10(8):577.

Clinical studies consistently demonstrate that a single sub-psychomimetic dose of
ketamine, an ionotropic glutamatergic NMDAR (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor)
antagonist, produces fast-acting antidepressant responses in patients suffering
from major depressive disorder, although the underlying mechanism is unclear.
Depressed patients report the alleviation of major depressive disorder symptoms
within two hours of a single, low-dose intravenous infusion of ketamine, with
effects lasting up to two weeks, unlike traditional antidepressants (serotonin
re-uptake inhibitors), which take weeks to reach efficacy. This delay is a major 
drawback to current therapies for major depressive disorder and faster-acting
antidepressants are needed, particularly for suicide-risk patients. The ability
of ketamine to produce rapidly acting, long-lasting antidepressant responses in
depressed patients provides a unique opportunity to investigate underlying
cellular mechanisms. Here we show that ketamine and other NMDAR antagonists
produce fast-acting behavioural antidepressant-like effects in mouse models, and 
that these effects depend on the rapid synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic
factor. We find that the ketamine-mediated blockade of NMDAR at rest deactivates 
eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2) kinase (also called CaMKIII), resulting in 
reduced eEF2 phosphorylation and de-suppression of translation of brain-derived
neurotrophic factor. Furthermore, we find that inhibitors of eEF2 kinase induce
fast-acting behavioural antidepressant-like effects. Our findings indicate that
the regulation of protein synthesis by spontaneous neurotransmission may serve as
a viable therapeutic target for the development of fast-acting antidepressants.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10130 
PMCID: PMC3172695
PMID: 21677641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 2011 Jun 12;474(7352):472-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10178.

Structural insight into brassinosteroid perception by BRI1.

She J(1), Han Z, Kim TW, Wang J, Cheng W, Chang J, Shi S, Wang J, Yang M, Wang
ZY, Chai J.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Protein Sciences of Ministry of Education School of Life
Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Brassinosteroids are essential phytohormones that have crucial roles in plant
growth and development. Perception of brassinosteroids requires an active complex
of BRASSINOSTEROID-INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) and BRI1-ASSOCIATED KINASE 1 (BAK1).
Recognized by the extracellular leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain of BRI1,
brassinosteroids induce a phosphorylation-mediated cascade to regulate gene
expression. Here we present the crystal structures of BRI1(LRR) in free and
brassinolide-bound forms. BRI1(LRR) exists as a monomer in crystals and solution 
independent of brassinolide. It comprises a helical solenoid structure that
accommodates a separate insertion domain at its concave surface. Sandwiched
between them, brassinolide binds to a hydrophobicity-dominating surface groove on
BRI1(LRR). Brassinolide recognition by BRI1(LRR) is through an induced-fit
mechanism involving stabilization of two interdomain loops that creates a
pronounced non-polar surface groove for the hormone binding. Together, our
results define the molecular mechanisms by which BRI1 recognizes brassinosteroids
and provide insight into brassinosteroid-induced BRI1 activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10178 
PMCID: PMC4019668
PMID: 21666666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 2011 Jun 12;474(7352):467-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10153.

Structural basis of steroid hormone perception by the receptor kinase BRI1.

Hothorn M(1), Belkhadir Y, Dreux M, Dabi T, Noel JP, Wilson IA, Chory J.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010
North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Polyhydroxylated steroids are regulators of body shape and size in higher
organisms. In metazoans, intracellular receptors recognize these molecules.
Plants, however, perceive steroids at membranes, using the membrane-integral
receptor kinase BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1). Here we report the
structure of the Arabidopsis thaliana BRI1 ligand-binding domain, determined by
X-ray diffraction at 2.5 Å resolution. We find a superhelix of 25 twisted
leucine-rich repeats (LRRs), an architecture that is strikingly different from
the assembly of LRRs in animal Toll-like receptors. A 70-amino-acid island domain
between LRRs 21 and 22 folds back into the interior of the superhelix to create a
surface pocket for binding the plant hormone brassinolide. Known loss- and
gain-of-function mutations map closely to the hormone-binding site. We propose
that steroid binding to BRI1 generates a docking platform for a co-receptor that 
is required for receptor activation. Our findings provide insight into the
activation mechanism of this highly expanded family of plant receptors that have 
essential roles in hormone, developmental and innate immunity signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10153 
PMCID: PMC3280218
PMID: 21666665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):230-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10155.

A function for cyclin D1 in DNA repair uncovered by protein interactome analyses 
in human cancers.

Jirawatnotai S(1), Hu Y, Michowski W, Elias JE, Becks L, Bienvenu F, Zagozdzon A,
Goswami T, Wang YE, Clark AB, Kunkel TA, van Harn T, Xia B, Correll M,
Quackenbush J, Livingston DM, Gygi SP, Sicinski P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):171-2.

Cyclin D1 is a component of the core cell cycle machinery. Abnormally high levels
of cyclin D1 are detected in many human cancer types. To elucidate the molecular 
functions of cyclin D1 in human cancers, we performed a proteomic screen for
cyclin D1 protein partners in several types of human tumours. Analyses of cyclin 
D1 interactors revealed a network of DNA repair proteins, including RAD51, a
recombinase that drives the homologous recombination process. We found that
cyclin D1 directly binds RAD51, and that cyclin D1-RAD51 interaction is induced
by radiation. Like RAD51, cyclin D1 is recruited to DNA damage sites in a
BRCA2-dependent fashion. Reduction of cyclin D1 levels in human cancer cells
impaired recruitment of RAD51 to damaged DNA, impeded the homologous
recombination-mediated DNA repair, and increased sensitivity of cells to
radiation in vitro and in vivo. This effect was seen in cancer cells lacking the 
retinoblastoma protein, which do not require D-cyclins for proliferation. These
findings reveal an unexpected function of a core cell cycle protein in DNA repair
and suggest that targeting cyclin D1 may be beneficial also in
retinoblastoma-negative cancers which are currently thought to be unaffected by
cyclin D1 inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10155 
PMCID: PMC3134411
PMID: 21654808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):225-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10106.

Direct reprogramming of somatic cells is promoted by maternal transcription
factor Glis1.

Maekawa M(1), Yamaguchi K, Nakamura T, Shibukawa R, Kodanaka I, Ichisaka T,
Kawamura Y, Mochizuki H, Goshima N, Yamanaka S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, Kyoto
606-8507, Japan.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are generated from somatic cells by the
transgenic expression of three transcription factors collectively called OSK:
Oct3/4 (also called Pou5f1), Sox2 and Klf4. However, the conversion to iPSCs is
inefficient. The proto-oncogene Myc enhances the efficiency of iPSC generation by
OSK but it also increases the tumorigenicity of the resulting iPSCs. Here we show
that the Gli-like transcription factor Glis1 (Glis family zinc finger 1) markedly
enhances the generation of iPSCs from both mouse and human fibroblasts when it is
expressed together with OSK. Mouse iPSCs generated using this combination of
transcription factors can form germline-competent chimaeras. Glis1 is enriched in
unfertilized oocytes and in embryos at the one-cell stage. DNA microarray
analyses show that Glis1 promotes multiple pro-reprogramming pathways, including 
Myc, Nanog, Lin28, Wnt, Essrb and the mesenchymal-epithelial transition. These
results therefore show that Glis1 effectively promotes the direct reprogramming
of somatic cells during iPSC generation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10106 
PMID: 21654807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):220-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10107.

A somitic Wnt16/Notch pathway specifies haematopoietic stem cells.

Clements WK(1), Kim AD, Ong KG, Moore JC, Lawson ND, Traver D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine and Section of Cell and
Developmental Biology, University of California at San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, 
La Jolla, California 92093-0380, USA.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are a self-renewing population of cells that
continuously replenish all blood and immune cells during the lifetime of an
individual. HSCs are used clinically to treat a wide array of diseases, including
acute leukaemias and congenital blood disorders, but obtaining suitable numbers
of cells and finding immune-compatible donors remain serious problems. These
difficulties have led to an interest in the conversion of embryonic stem cells or
induced pluripotent stem cells into HSCs, which is not possible using current
methodologies. To accomplish this goal, it is critical to understand the native
mechanisms involved in the specification of HSCs during embryonic development.
Here we demonstrate in zebrafish that Wnt16 controls a novel genetic regulatory
network required for HSC specification. Non-canonical signalling by Wnt16 is
required for somitic expression of the Notch ligands deltaC (dlc) and deltaD
(dld), and these ligands are, in turn, required for the establishment of
definitive haematopoiesis. Notch signalling downstream of Dlc and Dld is earlier 
than, and distinct from, known cell-autonomous requirements for Notch, strongly
suggesting that novel Notch-dependent relay signal(s) induce the first HSCs in
parallel to other established pathways. Our results demonstrate that
somite-specific gene expression is required for the production of haemogenic
endothelium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10107 
PMCID: PMC3304471
PMID: 21654806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10160.

In vivo imaging of Treg cells providing immune privilege to the haematopoietic
stem-cell niche.

Fujisaki J(1), Wu J, Carlson AL, Silberstein L, Putheti P, Larocca R, Gao W,
Saito TI, Lo Celso C, Tsuyuzaki H, Sato T, Côté D, Sykes M, Strom TB, Scadden DT,
Lin CP.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Microscopy Program, Center for Systems Biology and Wellman Center for
Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA. jfujisaki@partners.org

Stem cells reside in a specialized regulatory microenvironment or niche, where
they receive appropriate support for maintaining self-renewal and multi-lineage
differentiation capacity. The niche may also protect stem cells from
environmental insults including cytotoxic chemotherapy and perhaps pathogenic
immunity. The testis, hair follicle and placenta are all sites of residence for
stem cells and are immune-suppressive environments, called immune-privileged
sites, where multiple mechanisms cooperate to prevent immune attack, even
enabling prolonged survival of foreign allografts without immunosuppression. We
sought to determine if somatic stem-cell niches more broadly are
immune-privileged sites by examining the haematopoietic stem/progenitor cell
(HSPC) niche in the bone marrow, a site where immune reactivity exists. We
observed persistence of HSPCs from allogeneic donor mice (allo-HSPCs) in
non-irradiated recipient mice for 30 days without immunosuppression with the same
survival frequency compared to syngeneic HSPCs. These HSPCs were lost after the
depletion of FoxP3 regulatory T (T(reg)) cells. High-resolution in vivo imaging
over time demonstrated marked co-localization of HSPCs with T(reg) cells that
accumulated on the endosteal surface in the calvarial and trabecular bone marrow.
T(reg) cells seem to participate in creating a localized zone where HSPCs reside 
and where T(reg) cells are necessary for allo-HSPC persistence. In addition to
processes supporting stem-cell function, the niche will provide a relative
sanctuary from immune attack.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10160 
PMCID: PMC3725645
PMID: 21654805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):208-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10168.

A genetically humanized mouse model for hepatitis C virus infection.

Dorner M(1), Horwitz JA, Robbins JB, Barry WT, Feng Q, Mu K, Jones CT, Schoggins 
JW, Catanese MT, Burton DR, Law M, Rice CM, Ploss A.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Hepatitis C, The Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2011 Nov;54(5):1873-5.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) remains a major medical problem. Antiviral treatment is
only partially effective and a vaccine does not exist. Development of more
effective therapies has been hampered by the lack of a suitable small animal
model. Although xenotransplantation of immunodeficient mice with human
hepatocytes has shown promise, these models are subject to important challenges. 
Building on the previous observation that CD81 and occludin comprise the minimal 
human factors required to render mouse cells permissive to HCV entry in vitro, we
attempted murine humanization via a genetic approach. Here we show that
expression of two human genes is sufficient to allow HCV infection of fully
immunocompetent inbred mice. We establish a precedent for applying mouse genetics
to dissect viral entry and validate the role of scavenger receptor type B class I
for HCV uptake. We demonstrate that HCV can be blocked by passive immunization,
as well as showing that a recombinant vaccinia virus vector induces humoral
immunity and confers partial protection against heterologous challenge. This
system recapitulates a portion of the HCV life cycle in an immunocompetent rodent
for the first time, opening opportunities for studying viral pathogenesis and
immunity and comprising an effective platform for testing HCV entry inhibitors in
vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10168 
PMCID: PMC3159410
PMID: 21654804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):204-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10131.

Visual place learning in Drosophila melanogaster.

Ofstad TA(1), Zuker CS, Reiser MB.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 19700 Helix
Drive, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):169-70.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Aug;12(8):432-4.

The ability of insects to learn and navigate to specific locations in the
environment has fascinated naturalists for decades. The impressive navigational
abilities of ants, bees, wasps and other insects demonstrate that insects are
capable of visual place learning, but little is known about the underlying neural
circuits that mediate these behaviours. Drosophila melanogaster (common fruit
fly) is a powerful model organism for dissecting the neural circuitry underlying 
complex behaviours, from sensory perception to learning and memory. Drosophila
can identify and remember visual features such as size, colour and contour
orientation. However, the extent to which they use vision to recall specific
locations remains unclear. Here we describe a visual place learning platform and 
demonstrate that Drosophila are capable of forming and retaining visual place
memories to guide selective navigation. By targeted genetic silencing of small
subsets of cells in the Drosophila brain, we show that neurons in the ellipsoid
body, but not in the mushroom bodies, are necessary for visual place learning.
Together, these studies reveal distinct neuroanatomical substrates for spatial
versus non-spatial learning, and establish Drosophila as a powerful model for the
study of spatial memories.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10131 
PMCID: PMC3169673
PMID: 21654803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10150.

Irregular tropical glacier retreat over the Holocene epoch driven by progressive 
warming.

Jomelli V(1), Khodri M, Favier V, Brunstein D, Ledru MP, Wagnon P, Blard PH,
Sicart JE, Braucher R, Grancher D, Bourlès DL, Braconnot P, Vuille M.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne-CNRS Laboratoire de Géographie Physique, 
92195 Meudon, France. jomelli@cnrs-bellevue.fr

The causes and timing of tropical glacier fluctuations during the Holocene epoch 
(10,000 years ago to present) are poorly understood. Yet constraining their
sensitivity to changes in climate is important, as these glaciers are both
sensitive indicators of climate change and serve as water reservoirs for highland
regions. Studies have so far documented extra-tropical glacier fluctuations, but 
in the tropics, glacier-climate relationships are insufficiently understood. Here
we present a (10)Be chronology for the past 11,000 years (11 kyr), using 57
moraines from the Bolivian Telata glacier (in the Cordillera Real mountain
range). This chronology indicates that Telata glacier retreated irregularly. A
rapid and strong melting from the maximum extent occurred from 10.8 ± 0.9 to
8.5 ± 0.4 kyr ago, followed by a slower retreat until the Little Ice Age, about
200 years ago. A dramatic increase in the rate of retreat occurred over the
twentieth century. A glacier-climate model indicates that, relative to modern
climate, annual mean temperature for the Telata glacier region was -3.3 ± 0.8 °C 
cooler at 11 kyr ago and remained -2.1 ± 0.8 °C cooler until the end of the
Little Ice Age. We suggest that long-term warming of the eastern tropical Pacific
and increased atmospheric temperature in response to enhanced austral summer
insolation were the main drivers for the long-term Holocene retreat of glaciers
in the southern tropics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10150 
PMID: 21654802 


479. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):192-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10173.

Hydrogen bonding at the water surface revealed by isotopic dilution spectroscopy.

Stiopkin IV(1), Weeraman C, Pieniazek PA, Shalhout FY, Skinner JL, Benderskii AV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48202, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):168-9.

The air-water interface is perhaps the most common liquid interface. It covers
more than 70 per cent of the Earth's surface and strongly affects atmospheric,
aerosol and environmental chemistry. The air-water interface has also attracted
much interest as a model system that allows rigorous tests of theory, with one
fundamental question being just how thin it is. Theoretical studies have
suggested a surprisingly short 'healing length' of about 3 ångströms (1 Å =
0.1 nm), with the bulk-phase properties of water recovered within the top few
monolayers. However, direct experimental evidence has been elusive owing to the
difficulty of depth-profiling the liquid surface on the ångström scale. Most
physical, chemical and biological properties of water, such as viscosity,
solvation, wetting and the hydrophobic effect, are determined by its
hydrogen-bond network. This can be probed by observing the lineshape of the
OH-stretch mode, the frequency shift of which is related to the hydrogen-bond
strength. Here we report a combined experimental and theoretical study of the
air-water interface using surface-selective heterodyne-detected vibrational sum
frequency spectroscopy to focus on the 'free OD' transition found only in the
topmost water layer. By using deuterated water and isotopic dilution to reveal
the vibrational coupling mechanism, we find that the free OD stretch is affected 
only by intramolecular coupling to the stretching of the other OD group on the
same molecule. The other OD stretch frequency indicates the strength of one of
the first hydrogen bonds encountered at the surface; this is the donor hydrogen
bond of the water molecule straddling the interface, which we find to be only
slightly weaker than bulk-phase water hydrogen bonds. We infer from this
observation a remarkably fast onset of bulk-phase behaviour on crossing from the 
air into the water phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10173 
PMID: 21654801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):188-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10120.

Direct measurement of the quantum wavefunction.

Lundeen JS(1), Sutherland B, Patel A, Stewart C, Bamber C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for National Measurement Standards, National Research Council, 1200 
Montreal Road, Ottawa, Canada. jeff.lundeen@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):170-1.

The wavefunction is the complex distribution used to completely describe a
quantum system, and is central to quantum theory. But despite its fundamental
role, it is typically introduced as an abstract element of the theory with no
explicit definition. Rather, physicists come to a working understanding of the
wavefunction through its use to calculate measurement outcome probabilities by
way of the Born rule. At present, the wavefunction is determined through
tomographic methods, which estimate the wavefunction most consistent with a
diverse collection of measurements. The indirectness of these methods compounds
the problem of defining the wavefunction. Here we show that the wavefunction can 
be measured directly by the sequential measurement of two complementary variables
of the system. The crux of our method is that the first measurement is performed 
in a gentle way through weak measurement, so as not to invalidate the second. The
result is that the real and imaginary components of the wavefunction appear
directly on our measurement apparatus. We give an experimental example by
directly measuring the transverse spatial wavefunction of a single photon, a task
not previously realized by any method. We show that the concept is universal,
being applicable to other degrees of freedom of the photon, such as polarization 
or frequency, and to other quantum systems--for example, electron spins, SQUIDs
(superconducting quantum interference devices) and trapped ions. Consequently,
this method gives the wavefunction a straightforward and general definition in
terms of a specific set of experimental operations. We expect it to expand the
range of quantum systems that can be characterized and to initiate new avenues in
fundamental quantum theory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10120 
PMID: 21654800 


481. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7350):179-83. doi: 10.1038/nature10137.

Role of YAP/TAZ in mechanotransduction.

Dupont S(1), Morsut L, Aragona M, Enzo E, Giulitti S, Cordenonsi M, Zanconato F, 
Le Digabel J, Forcato M, Bicciato S, Elvassore N, Piccolo S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Histology, Microbiology and Medical Biotechnologies, University 
of Padua School of Medicine, viale Colombo 3, 35131 Padua, Italy.
dupont@bio.unipd.it

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Jul;12(7):404.

Cells perceive their microenvironment not only through soluble signals but also
through physical and mechanical cues, such as extracellular matrix (ECM)
stiffness or confined adhesiveness. By mechanotransduction systems, cells
translate these stimuli into biochemical signals controlling multiple aspects of 
cell behaviour, including growth, differentiation and cancer malignant
progression, but how rigidity mechanosensing is ultimately linked to activity of 
nuclear transcription factors remains poorly understood. Here we report the
identification of the Yorkie-homologues YAP (Yes-associated protein) and TAZ
(transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif, also known as WWTR1) as
nuclear relays of mechanical signals exerted by ECM rigidity and cell shape. This
regulation requires Rho GTPase activity and tension of the actomyosin
cytoskeleton, but is independent of the Hippo/LATS cascade. Crucially, YAP/TAZ
are functionally required for differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells induced
by ECM stiffness and for survival of endothelial cells regulated by cell
geometry; conversely, expression of activated YAP overrules physical constraints 
in dictating cell behaviour. These findings identify YAP/TAZ as sensors and
mediators of mechanical cues instructed by the cellular microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10137 
PMID: 21654799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7353):649-53. doi: 10.1038/nature10112.

MicroRNAs 103 and 107 regulate insulin sensitivity.

Trajkovski M(1), Hausser J, Soutschek J, Bhat B, Akin A, Zavolan M, Heim MH,
Stoffel M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich, Wolfgang-Pauli Strasse
16, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Aug 3;14(2):149-50.

Defects in insulin signalling are among the most common and earliest defects that
predispose an individual to the development of type 2 diabetes. MicroRNAs have
been identified as a new class of regulatory molecules that influence many
biological functions, including metabolism. However, the direct regulation of
insulin sensitivity by microRNAs in vivo has not been demonstrated. Here we show 
that the expression of microRNAs 103 and 107 (miR-103/107) is upregulated in
obese mice. Silencing of miR-103/107 leads to improved glucose homeostasis and
insulin sensitivity. In contrast, gain of miR-103/107 function in either liver or
fat is sufficient to induce impaired glucose homeostasis. We identify caveolin-1,
a critical regulator of the insulin receptor, as a direct target gene of
miR-103/107. We demonstrate that caveolin-1 is upregulated upon miR-103/107
inactivation in adipocytes and that this is concomitant with stabilization of the
insulin receptor, enhanced insulin signalling, decreased adipocyte size and
enhanced insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. These findings demonstrate the
central importance of miR-103/107 to insulin sensitivity and identify a new
target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10112 
PMID: 21654750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7352):484-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10090.

X-ray illumination of the ejecta of supernova 1987A.

Larsson J(1), Fransson C, Ostlin G, Gröningsson P, Jerkstrand A, Kozma C,
Sollerman J, Challis P, Kirshner RP, Chevalier RA, Heng K, McCray R, Suntzeff NB,
Bouchet P, Crotts A, Danziger J, Dwek E, France K, Garnavich PM, Lawrence SS,
Leibundgut B, Lundqvist P, Panagia N, Pun CS, Smith N, Sonneborn G, Wang L,
Wheeler JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, The Oskar Klein Centre, Stockholm University, 106 91 
Stockholm, Sweden. josefin.larsson@astro.su.se

When a massive star explodes as a supernova, substantial amounts of radioactive
elements--primarily (56)Ni, (57)Ni and (44)Ti--are produced. After the initial
flash of light from shock heating, the fading light emitted by the supernova is
due to the decay of these elements. However, after decades, the energy powering a
supernova remnant comes from the shock interaction between the ejecta and the
surrounding medium. The transition to this phase has hitherto not been observed: 
supernovae occur too infrequently in the Milky Way to provide a young example,
and extragalactic supernovae are generally too faint and too small. Here we
report observations that show this transition in the supernova SN 1987A in the
Large Magellanic Cloud. From 1994 to 2001, the ejecta faded owing to radioactive 
decay of (44)Ti as predicted. Then the flux started to increase, more than
doubling by the end of 2009. We show that this increase is the result of heat
deposited by X-rays produced as the ejecta interacts with the surrounding
material. In time, the X-rays will penetrate farther into the ejecta, enabling us
to analyse the structure and chemistry of the vanished star.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10090 
PMID: 21654749 


484. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;475(7355):222-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10138.

CCL2 recruits inflammatory monocytes to facilitate breast-tumour metastasis.

Qian BZ(1), Li J, Zhang H, Kitamura T, Zhang J, Campion LR, Kaiser EA, Snyder LA,
Pollard JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Molecular Biology, Center for the Study of
Reproductive Biology and Women's Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New
York, New York 10461, USA.

Macrophages, which are abundant in the tumour microenvironment, enhance
malignancy. At metastatic sites, a distinct population of metastasis-associated
macrophages promotes the extravasation, seeding and persistent growth of tumour
cells. Here we define the origin of these macrophages by showing that
Gr1-positive inflammatory monocytes are preferentially recruited to pulmonary
metastases but not to primary mammary tumours in mice. This process also occurs
for human inflammatory monocytes in pulmonary metastases of human breast cancer
cells. The recruitment of these inflammatory monocytes, which express CCR2 (the
receptor for chemokine CCL2), as well as the subsequent recruitment of
metastasis-associated macrophages and their interaction with metastasizing tumour
cells, is dependent on CCL2 synthesized by both the tumour and the stroma.
Inhibition of CCL2-CCR2 signalling blocks the recruitment of inflammatory
monocytes, inhibits metastasis in vivo and prolongs the survival of
tumour-bearing mice. Depletion of tumour-cell-derived CCL2 also inhibits
metastatic seeding. Inflammatory monocytes promote the extravasation of tumour
cells in a process that requires monocyte-derived vascular endothelial growth
factor. CCL2 expression and macrophage infiltration are correlated with poor
prognosis and metastatic disease in human breast cancer. Our data provide the
mechanistic link between these two clinical associations and indicate new
therapeutic targets for treating metastatic breast cancer.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10138 
PMCID: PMC3208506
PMID: 21654748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7352):487-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10095.

Hydrogen-poor superluminous stellar explosions.

Quimby RM(1), Kulkarni SR, Kasliwal MM, Gal-Yam A, Arcavi I, Sullivan M, Nugent
P, Thomas R, Howell DA, Nakar E, Bildsten L, Theissen C, Law NM, Dekany R, Rahmer
G, Hale D, Smith R, Ofek EO, Zolkower J, Velur V, Walters R, Henning J, Bui K,
McKenna D, Poznanski D, Cenko SB, Levitan D.

Author information: 
(1)Cahill Center for Astrophysics 249-17, California Institute of Technology,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA. quimby@astro.caltech.edu

Supernovae are stellar explosions driven by gravitational or thermonuclear energy
that is observed as electromagnetic radiation emitted over weeks or more. In all 
known supernovae, this radiation comes from internal energy deposited in the
outflowing ejecta by one or more of the following processes: radioactive decay of
freshly synthesized elements (typically (56)Ni), the explosion shock in the
envelope of a supergiant star, and interaction between the debris and slowly
moving, hydrogen-rich circumstellar material. Here we report observations of a
class of luminous supernovae whose properties cannot be explained by any of these
processes. The class includes four new supernovae that we have discovered and two
previously unexplained events (SN 2005ap and SCP 06F6) that we can now identify
as members of the same class. These supernovae are all about ten times brighter
than most type Ia supernova, do not show any trace of hydrogen, emit significant 
ultraviolet flux for extended periods of time and have late-time decay rates that
are inconsistent with radioactivity. Our data require that the observed radiation
be emitted by hydrogen-free material distributed over a large radius (∼10(15)
centimetres) and expanding at high speeds (>10(4) kilometres per second). These
long-lived, ultraviolet-luminous events can be observed out to redshifts z > 4.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10095 
PMID: 21654747 


486. Nature. 2011 Jun 8;474(7353):640-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10188.

De novo cardiomyocytes from within the activated adult heart after injury.

Smart N(1), Bollini S, Dubé KN, Vieira JM, Zhou B, Davidson S, Yellon D, Riegler 
J, Price AN, Lythgoe MF, Pu WT, Riley PR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Unit, UCL Institute of Child Health, London WC1N 1EH, UK.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2011 Sep 30;109(8):828-9.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):585-6.

A significant bottleneck in cardiovascular regenerative medicine is the
identification of a viable source of stem/progenitor cells that could contribute 
new muscle after ischaemic heart disease and acute myocardial infarction. A
therapeutic ideal--relative to cell transplantation--would be to stimulate a
resident source, thus avoiding the caveats of limited graft survival, restricted 
homing to the site of injury and host immune rejection. Here we demonstrate in
mice that the adult heart contains a resident stem or progenitor cell population,
which has the potential to contribute bona fide terminally differentiated
cardiomyocytes after myocardial infarction. We reveal a novel genetic label of
the activated adult progenitors via re-expression of a key embryonic epicardial
gene, Wilm's tumour 1 (Wt1), through priming by thymosin β4, a peptide previously
shown to restore vascular potential to adult epicardium-derived progenitor cells 
with injury. Cumulative evidence indicates an epicardial origin of the progenitor
population, and embryonic reprogramming results in the mobilization of this
population and concomitant differentiation to give rise to de novo
cardiomyocytes. Cell transplantation confirmed a progenitor source and chromosome
painting of labelled donor cells revealed transdifferentiation to a myocyte fate 
in the absence of cell fusion. Derived cardiomyocytes are shown here to
structurally and functionally integrate with resident muscle; as such,
stimulation of this adult progenitor pool represents a significant step towards
resident-cell-based therapy in human ischaemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10188 
PMCID: PMC3696525
PMID: 21654746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 2011 Jun 5;475(7354):101-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10113.

Whole-genome sequencing identifies recurrent mutations in chronic lymphocytic
leukaemia.

Puente XS(1), Pinyol M, Quesada V, Conde L, Ordóñez GR, Villamor N, Escaramis G, 
Jares P, Beà S, González-Díaz M, Bassaganyas L, Baumann T, Juan M, López-Guerra
M, Colomer D, Tubío JM, López C, Navarro A, Tornador C, Aymerich M, Rozman M,
Hernández JM, Puente DA, Freije JM, Velasco G, Gutiérrez-Fernández A, Costa D,
Carrió A, Guijarro S, Enjuanes A, Hernández L, Yagüe J, Nicolás P, Romeo-Casabona
CM, Himmelbauer H, Castillo E, Dohm JC, de Sanjosé S, Piris MA, de Alava E, San
Miguel J, Royo R, Gelpí JL, Torrents D, Orozco M, Pisano DG, Valencia A, Guigó R,
Bayés M, Heath S, Gut M, Klatt P, Marshall J, Raine K, Stebbings LA, Futreal PA, 
Stratton MR, Campbell PJ, Gut I, López-Guillermo A, Estivill X, Montserrat E,
López-Otín C, Campo E.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular, Instituto Universitario de
Oncología, Universidad de Oviedo, 33006 Oviedo, Spain.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2011 Aug;8(8):447.
    Cancer Cell. 2011 Jul 12;20(1):5-7.

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), the most frequent leukaemia in adults in
Western countries, is a heterogeneous disease with variable clinical presentation
and evolution. Two major molecular subtypes can be distinguished, characterized
respectively by a high or low number of somatic hypermutations in the variable
region of immunoglobulin genes. The molecular changes leading to the pathogenesis
of the disease are still poorly understood. Here we performed whole-genome
sequencing of four cases of CLL and identified 46 somatic mutations that
potentially affect gene function. Further analysis of these mutations in 363
patients with CLL identified four genes that are recurrently mutated: notch 1
(NOTCH1), exportin 1 (XPO1), myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88
(MYD88) and kelch-like 6 (KLHL6). Mutations in MYD88 and KLHL6 are predominant in
cases of CLL with mutated immunoglobulin genes, whereas NOTCH1 and XPO1 mutations
are mainly detected in patients with unmutated immunoglobulins. The patterns of
somatic mutation, supported by functional and clinical analyses, strongly
indicate that the recurrent NOTCH1, MYD88 and XPO1 mutations are oncogenic
changes that contribute to the clinical evolution of the disease. To our
knowledge, this is the first comprehensive analysis of CLL combining whole-genome
sequencing with clinical characteristics and clinical outcomes. It highlights the
usefulness of this approach for the identification of clinically relevant
mutations in cancer.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10113 
PMCID: PMC3322590
PMID: 21642962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 2011 Jun 5;475(7355):206-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10201.

A low mass for Mars from Jupiter's early gas-driven migration.

Walsh KJ(1), Morbidelli A, Raymond SN, O'Brien DP, Mandell AM.

Author information: 
(1)1] Université de Nice - Sophia Antipolis, CNRS, Observatoire de la Côte
d'Azur, BP 4229, 06304 Nice Cedex 4, France. kwalsh@boulder.swri.edu

Jupiter and Saturn formed in a few million years (ref. 1) from a gas-dominated
protoplanetary disk, and were susceptible to gas-driven migration of their orbits
on timescales of only ∼100,000 years (ref. 2). Hydrodynamic simulations show that
these giant planets can undergo a two-stage, inward-then-outward, migration. The 
terrestrial planets finished accreting much later, and their characteristics,
including Mars' small mass, are best reproduced by starting from a planetesimal
disk with an outer edge at about one astronomical unit from the Sun (1 au is the 
Earth-Sun distance). Here we report simulations of the early Solar System that
show how the inward migration of Jupiter to 1.5 au, and its subsequent outward
migration, lead to a planetesimal disk truncated at 1 au; the terrestrial planets
then form from this disk over the next 30-50 million years, with an Earth/Mars
mass ratio consistent with observations. Scattering by Jupiter initially empties 
but then repopulates the asteroid belt, with inner-belt bodies originating
between 1 and 3 au and outer-belt bodies originating between and beyond the giant
planets. This explains the significant compositional differences across the
asteroid belt. The key aspect missing from previous models of terrestrial planet 
formation is the substantial radial migration of the giant planets, which
suggests that their behaviour is more similar to that inferred for extrasolar
planets than previously thought.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10201 
PMID: 21642961 


489. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10083.

Cryptic genetic variation promotes rapid evolutionary adaptation in an RNA
enzyme.

Hayden EJ(1), Ferrada E, Wagner A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies, University of
Zurich, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):45-6.

Cryptic variation is caused by the robustness of phenotypes to mutations. Cryptic
variation has no effect on phenotypes in a given genetic or environmental
background, but it can have effects after mutations or environmental change.
Because evolutionary adaptation by natural selection requires phenotypic
variation, phenotypically revealed cryptic genetic variation may facilitate
evolutionary adaptation. This is possible if the cryptic variation happens to be 
pre-adapted, or "exapted", to a new environment, and is thus advantageous once
revealed. However, this facilitating role for cryptic variation has not been
proven, partly because most pertinent work focuses on complex phenotypes of whole
organisms whose genetic basis is incompletely understood. Here we show that
populations of RNA enzymes with accumulated cryptic variation adapt more rapidly 
to a new substrate than a population without cryptic variation. A detailed
analysis of our evolving RNA populations in genotype space shows that cryptic
variation allows a population to explore new genotypes that become adaptive only 
in a new environment. Our observations show that cryptic variation contains new
genotypes pre-adapted to a changed environment. Our results highlight the
positive role that robustness and epistasis can have in adaptive evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10083 
PMID: 21637259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10081.

Ultra-prolonged activation of CO2-sensing neurons disorients mosquitoes.

Turner SL(1), Li N, Guda T, Githure J, Cardé RT, Ray A.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular, Molecular, and Developmental Biology Program, University of
California, Riverside, California 92521, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):40-1.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Aug;12(8):431.

Carbon dioxide (CO(2)) present in exhaled air is the most important sensory cue
for female blood-feeding mosquitoes, causing activation of long-distance
host-seeking flight, navigation towards the vertebrate host and, in the case of
Aedes aegypti, increased sensitivity to skin odours. The CO(2) detection
machinery is therefore an ideal target to disrupt host seeking. Here we use
electrophysiological assays to identify a volatile odorant that causes an
unusual, ultra-prolonged activation of CO(2)-detecting neurons in three major
disease-transmitting mosquitoes: Anopheles gambiae, Culex quinquefasciatus and A.
aegypti. Importantly, ultra-prolonged activation of these neurons severely
compromises their ability subsequently to detect CO(2) for several minutes. We
also identify odours that strongly inhibit CO(2)-sensitive neurons as candidates 
for use in disruption of host-seeking behaviour, as well as an odour that evokes 
CO(2)-like activity and thus has potential use as a lure in trapping devices.
Analysis of responses to panels of structurally related odours across the three
mosquitoes and Drosophila, which have related CO(2)-receptor proteins, reveals a 
pattern of inhibition that is often conserved. We use video tracking in
wind-tunnel experiments to demonstrate that the novel ultra-prolonged activators 
can completely disrupt CO(2)-mediated activation as well as source-finding
behaviour in Aedes mosquitoes, even after the odour is no longer present. Lastly,
semi-field studies demonstrate that use of ultra-prolonged activators disrupts
CO(2)-mediated hut entry behaviour of Culex mosquitoes. The three classes of
CO(2)-response-modifying odours offer powerful instruments for developing new
generations of insect repellents and lures, which even in small quantities can
interfere with the ability of mosquitoes to seek humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10081 
PMCID: PMC3150595
PMID: 21637258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09974.

Nematoda from the terrestrial deep subsurface of South Africa.

Borgonie G(1), García-Moyano A, Litthauer D, Bert W, Bester A, van Heerden E,
Möller C, Erasmus M, Onstott TC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Nematology Section, Ghent University, Ledeganckstraat
35, B9000 Ghent, Belgium. gborgonie@gmail.com

Since its discovery over two decades ago, the deep subsurface biosphere has been 
considered to be the realm of single-cell organisms, extending over three
kilometres into the Earth's crust and comprising a significant fraction of the
global biosphere. The constraints of temperature, energy, dioxygen and space
seemed to preclude the possibility of more-complex, multicellular organisms from 
surviving at these depths. Here we report species of the phylum Nematoda that
have been detected in or recovered from 0.9-3.6-kilometre-deep fracture water in 
the deep mines of South Africa but have not been detected in the mining water.
These subsurface nematodes, including a new species, Halicephalobus mephisto,
tolerate high temperature, reproduce asexually and preferentially feed upon
subsurface bacteria. Carbon-14 data indicate that the fracture water in which the
nematodes reside is 3,000-12,000-year-old palaeometeoric water. Our data suggest 
that nematodes should be found in other deep hypoxic settings where temperature
permits, and that they may control the microbial population density by grazing on
fracture surface biofilm patches. Our results expand the known metazoan biosphere
and demonstrate that deep ecosystems are more complex than previously accepted.
The discovery of multicellular life in the deep subsurface of the Earth also has 
important implications for the search for subsurface life on other planets in our
Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09974 
PMID: 21637257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):76-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10149.

Strontium isotope evidence for landscape use by early hominins.

Copeland SR(1), Sponheimer M, de Ruiter DJ, Lee-Thorp JA, Codron D, le Roux PJ,
Grimes V, Richards MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
sandi.copeland@colorado.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 28;475(7357):532.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):43, 45.

Ranging and residence patterns among early hominins have been indirectly inferred
from morphology, stone-tool sourcing, referential models and phylogenetic models.
However, the highly uncertain nature of such reconstructions limits our
understanding of early hominin ecology, biology, social structure and evolution. 
We investigated landscape use in Australopithecus africanus and Paranthropus
robustus from the Sterkfontein and Swartkrans cave sites in South Africa using
strontium isotope analysis, a method that can help to identify the geological
substrate on which an animal lived during tooth mineralization. Here we show that
a higher proportion of small hominins than large hominins had non-local strontium
isotope compositions. Given the relatively high levels of sexual dimorphism in
early hominins, the smaller teeth are likely to represent female individuals,
thus indicating that females were more likely than males to disperse from their
natal groups. This is similar to the dispersal pattern found in chimpanzees,
bonobos and many human groups, but dissimilar from that of most gorillas and
other primates. The small proportion of demonstrably non-local large hominin
individuals could indicate that male australopiths had relatively small home
ranges, or that they preferred dolomitic landscapes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10149 
PMID: 21637256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10114.

A dynamic early East Antarctic Ice Sheet suggested by ice-covered fjord
landscapes.

Young DA(1), Wright AP, Roberts JL, Warner RC, Young NW, Greenbaum JS, Schroeder 
DM, Holt JW, Sugden DE, Blankenship DD, van Ommen TD, Siegert MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Geophysics, Jackson School of Geosciences, University of Texas
at Austin, Austin, Texas 78758, USA. duncan@utig.ig.utexas.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):46-7.

The first Cenozoic ice sheets initiated in Antarctica from the Gamburtsev
Subglacial Mountains and other highlands as a result of rapid global cooling ∼34 
million years ago. In the subsequent 20 million years, at a time of declining
atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and an evolving Antarctic circumpolar
current, sedimentary sequence interpretation and numerical modelling suggest that
cyclical periods of ice-sheet expansion to the continental margin, followed by
retreat to the subglacial highlands, occurred up to thirty times. These
fluctuations were paced by orbital changes and were a major influence on global
sea levels. Ice-sheet models show that the nature of such oscillations is
critically dependent on the pattern and extent of Antarctic topographic lowlands.
Here we show that the basal topography of the Aurora Subglacial Basin of East
Antarctica, at present overlain by 2-4.5 km of ice, is characterized by a series 
of well-defined topographic channels within a mountain block landscape. The
identification of this fjord landscape, based on new data from ice-penetrating
radar, provides an improved understanding of the topography of the Aurora
Subglacial Basin and its surroundings, and reveals a complex surface sculpted by 
a succession of ice-sheet configurations substantially different from today's. At
different stages during its fluctuations, the edge of the East Antarctic Ice
Sheet lay pinned along the margins of the Aurora Subglacial Basin, the upland
boundaries of which are currently above sea level and the deepest parts of which 
are more than 1 km below sea level. Although the timing of the channel incision
remains uncertain, our results suggest that the fjord landscape was carved by at 
least two iceflow regimes of different scales and directions, each of which would
have over-deepened existing topographic depressions, reversing valley floor
slopes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10114 
PMID: 21637255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):61-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10123.

The thermodynamic meaning of negative entropy.

del Rio L(1), Aberg J, Renner R, Dahlsten O, Vedral V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Theoretical Physics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
delrio@phys.ethz.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):41-2.

The heat generated by computations is not only an obstacle to circuit
miniaturization but also a fundamental aspect of the relationship between
information theory and thermodynamics. In principle, reversible operations may be
performed at no energy cost; given that irreversible computations can always be
decomposed into reversible operations followed by the erasure of data, the
problem of calculating their energy cost is reduced to the study of erasure.
Landauer's principle states that the erasure of data stored in a system has an
inherent work cost and therefore dissipates heat. However, this consideration
assumes that the information about the system to be erased is classical, and does
not extend to the general case where an observer may have quantum information
about the system to be erased, for instance by means of a quantum memory
entangled with the system. Here we show that the standard formulation and
implications of Landauer's principle are no longer valid in the presence of
quantum information. Our main result is that the work cost of erasure is
determined by the entropy of the system, conditioned on the quantum information
an observer has about it. In other words, the more an observer knows about the
system, the less it costs to erase it. This result gives a direct thermodynamic
significance to conditional entropies, originally introduced in information
theory. Furthermore, it provides new bounds on the heat generation of
computations: because conditional entropies can become negative in the quantum
case, an observer who is strongly correlated with a system may gain work while
erasing it, thereby cooling the environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10123 
PMID: 21637254 


495. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):49-53. doi: 10.1038/nature10109.

Crystal structure of the FimD usher bound to its cognate FimC-FimH substrate.

Phan G(1), Remaut H, Wang T, Allen WJ, Pirker KF, Lebedev A, Henderson NS, Geibel
S, Volkan E, Yan J, Kunze MB, Pinkner JS, Ford B, Kay CW, Li H, Hultgren SJ,
Thanassi DG, Waksman G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London and
Birkbeck College, Malet Street, London WC1E 7HX, UK.

Type 1 pili are the archetypal representative of a widespread class of adhesive
multisubunit fibres in Gram-negative bacteria. During pilus assembly, subunits
dock as chaperone-bound complexes to an usher, which catalyses their
polymerization and mediates pilus translocation across the outer membrane. Here
we report the crystal structure of the full-length FimD usher bound to the
FimC-FimH chaperone-adhesin complex and that of the unbound form of the FimD
translocation domain. The FimD-FimC-FimH structure shows FimH inserted inside the
FimD 24-stranded β-barrel translocation channel. FimC-FimH is held in place
through interactions with the two carboxy-terminal periplasmic domains of FimD, a
binding mode confirmed in solution by electron paramagnetic resonance
spectroscopy. To accommodate FimH, the usher plug domain is displaced from the
barrel lumen to the periplasm, concomitant with a marked conformational change in
the β-barrel. The amino-terminal domain of FimD is observed in an ideal position 
to catalyse incorporation of a newly recruited chaperone-subunit complex. The
FimD-FimC-FimH structure provides unique insights into the pilus subunit
incorporation cycle, and captures the first view of a protein transporter in the 
act of secreting its cognate substrate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10109 
PMCID: PMC3162478
PMID: 21637253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):68-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10096. Epub 2011 May 25.

A hydrothermal origin for isotopically anomalous cap dolostone cements from south
China.

Bristow TF(1), Bonifacie M, Derkowski A, Eiler JM, Grotzinger JP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 East California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
thomas.f.bristow@nasa.gov

The release of methane into the atmosphere through destabilization of clathrates 
is a positive feedback mechanism capable of amplifying global warming trends that
may have operated several times in the geological past. Such methane release is a
hypothesized cause or amplifier for one of the most drastic global warming events
in Earth history, the end of the Marinoan 'snowball Earth' ice age, ∼635 Myr ago.
A key piece of evidence supporting this hypothesis is the occurrence of
exceptionally depleted carbon isotope signatures (δ(13)C(PDB) down to -48‰; ref. 
8) in post-glacial cap dolostones (that is, dolostone overlying glacial deposits)
from south China; these signatures have been interpreted as products of methane
oxidation at the time of deposition. Here we show, on the basis of carbonate
clumped isotope thermometry, (87)Sr/(86)Sr isotope ratios, trace element content 
and clay mineral evidence, that carbonates bearing the (13)C-depleted signatures 
crystallized more than 1.6 Myr after deposition of the cap dolostone. Our results
indicate that highly (13)C-depleted carbonate cements grew from hydrothermal
fluids and suggest that their carbon isotope signatures are a consequence of
thermogenic methane oxidation at depth. This finding not only negates carbon
isotope evidence for methane release during Marinoan deglaciation in south China,
but also eliminates the only known occurrence of a Precambrian sedimentary
carbonate with highly (13)C-depleted signatures related to methane oxidation in a
seep environment. We propose that the capacity to form highly (13)C-depleted seep
carbonates, through biogenic anaeorobic oxidation of methane using sulphate, was 
limited in the Precambrian period by low sulphate concentrations in sea water. As
a consequence, although clathrate destabilization may or may not have had a role 
in the exit from the 'snowball' state, it would not have left extreme carbon
isotope signals in cap dolostones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10096 
PMID: 21613997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):54-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10139. Epub 2011 May 15.

Principles of activation and permeation in an anion-selective Cys-loop receptor.

Hibbs RE(1), Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Fast inhibitory neurotransmission is essential for nervous system function and is
mediated by binding of inhibitory neurotransmitters to receptors of the Cys-loop 
family embedded in the membranes of neurons. Neurotransmitter binding triggers a 
conformational change in the receptor, opening an intrinsic chloride channel and 
thereby dampening neuronal excitability. Here we present the first
three-dimensional structure, to our knowledge, of an inhibitory anion-selective
Cys-loop receptor, the homopentameric Caenorhabditis elegans glutamate-gated
chloride channel α (GluCl), at 3.3 Å resolution. The X-ray structure of the
GluCl-Fab complex was determined with the allosteric agonist ivermectin and in
additional structures with the endogenous neurotransmitter L-glutamate and the
open-channel blocker picrotoxin. Ivermectin, used to treat river blindness, binds
in the transmembrane domain of the receptor and stabilizes an open-pore
conformation. Glutamate binds in the classical agonist site at subunit
interfaces, and picrotoxin directly occludes the pore near its cytosolic base.
GluCl provides a framework for understanding mechanisms of fast inhibitory
neurotransmission and allosteric modulation of Cys-loop receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10139 
PMCID: PMC3160419
PMID: 21572436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09982. Epub 2011 May 8.

Non-apoptotic role of BID in inflammation and innate immunity.

Yeretssian G(1), Correa RG, Doiron K, Fitzgerald P, Dillon CP, Green DR, Reed JC,
Saleh M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3G 0B1, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):E4-6; discussion E6-8.

Innate immunity is a fundamental defence response that depends on evolutionarily 
conserved pattern recognition receptors for sensing infections or danger signals.
Nucleotide-binding and oligomerization domain (NOD) proteins are cytosolic
pattern-recognition receptors of paramount importance in the intestine, and their
dysregulation is associated with inflammatory bowel disease. They sense
peptidoglycans from commensal microorganisms and pathogens and coordinate
signalling events that culminate in the induction of inflammation and
anti-microbial responses. However, the signalling mechanisms involved in this
process are not fully understood. Here, using genome-wide RNA interference, we
identify candidate genes that modulate the NOD1 inflammatory response in
intestinal epithelial cells. Our results reveal a significant crosstalk between
innate immunity and apoptosis and identify BID, a BCL2 family protein, as a
critical component of the inflammatory response. Colonocytes depleted of BID or
macrophages from Bid(-/-) mice are markedly defective in cytokine production in
response to NOD activation. Furthermore, Bid(-/-) mice are unresponsive to local 
or systemic exposure to NOD agonists or their protective effect in experimental
colitis. Mechanistically, BID interacts with NOD1, NOD2 and the IκB kinase (IKK) 
complex, impacting NF-κB and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)
signalling. Our results define a novel role of BID in inflammation and immunity
independent of its apoptotic function, furthering the mounting evidence of
evolutionary conservation between the mechanisms of apoptosis and immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09982 
PMID: 21552281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):100-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09986. Epub 2011 May 8.

Glutamate induces de novo growth of functional spines in developing cortex.

Kwon HB(1), Sabatini BL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Mature cortical pyramidal neurons receive excitatory inputs onto small
protrusions emanating from their dendrites called spines. Spines undergo
activity-dependent remodelling, stabilization and pruning during development, and
similar structural changes can be triggered by learning and changes in sensory
experiences. However, the biochemical triggers and mechanisms of de novo spine
formation in the developing brain and the functional significance of new spines
to neuronal connectivity are largely unknown. Here we develop an approach to
induce and monitor de novo spine formation in real time using combined two-photon
laser-scanning microscopy and two-photon laser uncaging of glutamate. Our data
demonstrate that, in mouse cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons, glutamate is
sufficient to trigger de novo spine growth from the dendrite shaft in a
location-specific manner. We find that glutamate-induced spinogenesis requires
opening of NMDARs (N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors) and activation 
of protein kinase A (PKA) but is independent of calcium-calmodulin-dependent
kinase II (CaMKII) and tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB) receptors. Furthermore, 
newly formed spines express glutamate receptors and are rapidly functional such
that they transduce presynaptic activity into postsynaptic signals. Together, our
data demonstrate that early neural connectivity is shaped by activity in a
spatially precise manner and that nascent dendrite spines are rapidly
functionally incorporated into cortical circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09986 
PMCID: PMC3107907
PMID: 21552280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09987. Epub 2011 May 8.

Earliest evidence of mammalian social behaviour in the basal Tertiary of Bolivia.

Ladevèze S(1), de Muizon C, Beck RM, Germain D, Cespedes-Paz R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paleontology, Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, 29
rue Vautier, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium. sandrine.ladeveze@naturalsciences.be

The vast majority of Mesozoic and early Cenozoic metatherian mammals (extinct
relatives of modern marsupials) are known only from partial jaws or isolated
teeth, which give insight into their probable diets and phylogenetic
relationships but little else. The few skulls known are generally crushed,
incomplete or both, and associated postcranial material is extremely rare. Here
we report the discovery of an exceptionally large number of almost undistorted,
nearly complete skulls and skeletons of a stem-metatherian, Pucadelphys andinus, 
in the early Palaeocene epoch of Tiupampa in Bolivia. These give an unprecedented
glimpse into early metatherian morphology, evolutionary relationships and,
especially, ecology. The remains of 35 individuals have been collected, with 22
of these represented by nearly complete skulls and associated postcrania. These
individuals were probably buried in a single catastrophic event, and so almost
certainly belong to the same population. The preservation of multiple adult,
sub-adult and juvenile individuals in close proximity (<1 m(2)) is indicative of 
gregarious social behaviour or at least a high degree of social tolerance and
frequent interaction. Such behaviour is unknown in living didelphids, which are
highly solitary and have been regarded, perhaps wrongly, as the most generalized 
living marsupials. The Tiupampan P. andinus population also exhibits strong
sexual dimorphism, which, in combination with gregariousness, suggests strong
male-male competition and polygyny. Our study shows that social interactions
occurred in metatherians as early as the basal Palaeocene and that solitary
behaviour may not be plesiomorphic for Metatheria as a whole.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09987 
PMID: 21552278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):64-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10067. Epub 2011 May 8.

A graphene-based broadband optical modulator.

Liu M(1), Yin X, Ulin-Avila E, Geng B, Zentgraf T, Ju L, Wang F, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)NSF Nano-scale Science and Engineering Center, 3112 Etcheverry Hall,
University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Integrated optical modulators with high modulation speed, small footprint and
large optical bandwidth are poised to be the enabling devices for on-chip optical
interconnects. Semiconductor modulators have therefore been heavily researched
over the past few years. However, the device footprint of silicon-based
modulators is of the order of millimetres, owing to its weak electro-optical
properties. Germanium and compound semiconductors, on the other hand, face the
major challenge of integration with existing silicon electronics and photonics
platforms. Integrating silicon modulators with high-quality-factor optical
resonators increases the modulation strength, but these devices suffer from
intrinsic narrow bandwidth and require sophisticated optical design; they also
have stringent fabrication requirements and limited temperature tolerances.
Finding a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS)-compatible material with
adequate modulation speed and strength has therefore become a task of not only
scientific interest, but also industrial importance. Here we experimentally
demonstrate a broadband, high-speed, waveguide-integrated electroabsorption
modulator based on monolayer graphene. By electrically tuning the Fermi level of 
the graphene sheet, we demonstrate modulation of the guided light at frequencies 
over 1 GHz, together with a broad operation spectrum that ranges from 1.35 to
1.6 µm under ambient conditions. The high modulation efficiency of graphene
results in an active device area of merely 25 µm(2), which is among the smallest 
to date. This graphene-based optical modulation mechanism, with combined
advantages of compact footprint, low operation voltage and ultrafast modulation
speed across a broad range of wavelengths, can enable novel architectures for
on-chip optical communications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10067 
PMID: 21552277 


502. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09966. Epub 2011 May 1.

UBCH7 reactivity profile reveals parkin and HHARI to be RING/HECT hybrids.

Wenzel DM(1), Lissounov A, Brzovic PS, Klevit RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Although the functional interaction between ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2s)
and ubiquitin ligases (E3s) is essential in ubiquitin (Ub) signalling, the
criteria that define an active E2-E3 pair are not well established. The human E2 
UBCH7 (also known as UBE2L3) shows broad specificity for HECT-type E3s, but often
fails to function with RING E3s in vitro despite forming specific complexes.
Structural comparisons of inactive UBCH7-RING complexes with active UBCH5-RING
complexes reveal no defining differences, highlighting a gap in our understanding
of Ub transfer. Here we show that, unlike many E2s that transfer Ub with RINGs,
UBCH7 lacks intrinsic, E3-independent reactivity with lysine, explaining its
preference for HECTs. Despite lacking lysine reactivity, UBCH7 exhibits activity 
with the RING-in-between-RING (RBR) family of E3s that includes parkin (also
known as PARK2) and human homologue of ariadne (HHARI; also known as ARIH1).
Found in all eukaryotes, RBRs regulate processes such as translation and immune
signalling. RBRs contain a canonical C3HC4-type RING, followed by two conserved
Cys/His-rich Zn(2+)-binding domains, in-between-RING (IBR) and RING2 domains,
which together define this E3 family. We show that RBRs function like RING/HECT
hybrids: they bind E2s via a RING domain, but transfer Ub through an obligate
thioester-linked Ub (denoted ∼Ub), requiring a conserved cysteine residue in
RING2. Our results define the functional cadre of E3s for UBCH7, an E2 involved
in cell proliferation and immune function, and indicate a novel mechanism for an 
entire class of E3s.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09966 
PMCID: PMC3444301
PMID: 21532592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature09971. Epub 2011 Apr 24.

Substrate-modulated gating dynamics in a Na+-coupled neurotransmitter transporter
homologue.

Zhao Y(1), Terry DS, Shi L, Quick M, Weinstein H, Blanchard SC, Javitch JA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Recognition, Columbia University College of Physicians
and Surgeons, 630 West 168th Street, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Neurotransmitter/Na(+) symporters (NSSs) terminate neuronal signalling by
recapturing neurotransmitter released into the synapse in a co-transport
(symport) mechanism driven by the Na(+) electrochemical gradient. NSSs for
dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin are targeted by the psychostimulants
cocaine and amphetamine, as well as by antidepressants. The crystal structure of 
LeuT, a prokaryotic NSS homologue, revealed an occluded conformation in which a
leucine (Leu) and two Na(+) are bound deep within the protein. This structure has
been the basis for extensive structural and computational exploration of the
functional mechanisms of proteins with a LeuT-like fold. Subsequently, an
'outward-open' conformation was determined in the presence of the inhibitor
tryptophan, and the Na(+)-dependent formation of a dynamic outward-facing
intermediate was identified using electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy.
In addition, single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer imaging has
been used to reveal reversible transitions to an inward-open LeuT conformation,
which involve the movement of transmembrane helix TM1a away from the
transmembrane helical bundle. We investigated how substrate binding is coupled to
structural transitions in LeuT during Na(+)-coupled transport. Here we report a
process whereby substrate binding from the extracellular side of LeuT facilitates
intracellular gate opening and substrate release at the intracellular face of the
protein. In the presence of alanine, a substrate that is transported ∼10-fold
faster than leucine, we observed alanine-induced dynamics in the intracellular
gate region of LeuT that directly correlate with transport efficiency.
Collectively, our data reveal functionally relevant and previously hidden aspects
of the NSS transport mechanism that emphasize the functional importance of a
second substrate (S2) binding site within the extracellular vestibule. Substrate 
binding in this S2 site appears to act cooperatively with the primary substrate
(S1) binding site to control intracellular gating more than 30 Å away, in a
manner that allows the Na(+) gradient to power the transport mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09971 
PMCID: PMC3178346
PMID: 21516104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2011 Jun 1;474(7350):184-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10091.

A current filamentation mechanism for breaking magnetic field lines during
reconnection.

Che H(1), Drake JF, Swisdak M.

Author information: 
(1)Center For Integrated Plasma Studies, Department of Physics, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA. haihong.che@colorado.edu

During magnetic reconnection, the field lines must break and reconnect to release
the energy that drives solar and stellar flares and other explosive events in
space and in the laboratory. Exactly how this happens has been unclear, because
dissipation is needed to break magnetic field lines and classical collisions are 
typically weak. Ion-electron drag arising from turbulence, dubbed 'anomalous
resistivity', and thermal momentum transport are two mechanisms that have been
widely invoked. Measurements of enhanced turbulence near reconnection sites in
space and in the laboratory support the anomalous resistivity idea but there has 
been no demonstration from measurements that this turbulence produces the
necessary enhanced drag. Here we report computer simulations that show that
neither of the two previously favoured mechanisms controls how magnetic field
lines reconnect in the plasmas of greatest interest, those in which the magnetic 
field dominates the energy budget. Rather, we find that when the current layers
that form during magnetic reconnection become too intense, they disintegrate and 
spread into a complex web of filaments that causes the rate of reconnection to
increase abruptly. This filamentary web can be explored in the laboratory or in
space with satellites that can measure the resulting electromagnetic turbulence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10091 
PMID: 21633355 


505. Nature. 2011 Jun 1;474(7352):477-83. doi: 10.1038/nature10179.

Condensin association with histone H2A shapes mitotic chromosomes.

Tada K(1), Susumu H, Sakuno T, Watanabe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromosome Dynamics, Institute of Molecular and Cellular
Biosciences, University of Tokyo, Yayoi, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2018 Oct 1;:.

Chromosome structure is dynamically regulated during cell division, and this
regulation is dependent, in part, on condensin. The localization of condensin at 
chromosome arms is crucial for chromosome partitioning during anaphase. Condensin
is also enriched at kinetochores but its precise role and loading machinery
remain unclear. Here we show that fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe)
kinetochore proteins Pcs1 and Mde4--homologues of budding yeast (Saccharomyces
cerevisiae) monopolin subunits and known to prevent merotelic kinetochore
orientation--act as a condensin 'recruiter' at kinetochores, and that condensin
itself may act to clamp microtubule binding sites during metaphase. In addition
to the regional recruitment factors, overall condensin association with chromatin
is governed by the chromosomal passenger kinase Aurora B. Aurora-B-dependent
phosphorylation of condensin promotes its association with histone H2A and H2A.Z,
which we identify as conserved chromatin 'receptors' of condensin. Condensin
phosphorylation and its deposition onto chromosome arms reach a peak during
anaphase, when Aurora B kinase relocates from centromeres to the spindle midzone,
where the separating chromosome arms are positioned. Our results elucidate the
molecular basis for the spatiotemporal regulation of mitotic chromosome
architecture, which is crucial for chromosome partitioning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10179 
PMID: 21633354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nature. 2011 May 29;474(7353):635-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10100.

A gene regulatory network controlling the embryonic specification of endoderm.

Peter IS(1), Davidson EH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 
91125, USA. ipeter@caltech.edu

Specification of endoderm is the prerequisite for gut formation in the
embryogenesis of bilaterian organisms. Modern lineage labelling studies have
shown that in the sea urchin embryo model system, descendants of the veg1 and
veg2 cell lineages produce the endoderm, and that the veg2 lineage also gives
rise to mesodermal cell types. It is known that Wnt/β-catenin signalling is
required for endoderm specification and Delta/Notch signalling is required for
mesoderm specification. Some direct cis-regulatory targets of these signals have 
been found and various phenomenological patterns of gene expression have been
observed in the pre-gastrular endomesoderm. However, no comprehensive, causal
explanation of endoderm specification has been conceived for sea urchins, nor for
any other deuterostome. Here we propose a model, on the basis of the underlying
genomic control system, that provides such an explanation, built at several
levels of biological organization. The hardwired core of the control system
consists of the cis-regulatory apparatus of endodermal regulatory genes, which
determine the relationship between the inputs to which these genes are exposed
and their outputs. The architecture of the network circuitry controlling the
dynamic process of endoderm specification then explains, at the system level, a
sequence of developmental logic operations, which generate the biological
process. The control system initiates non-interacting endodermal and mesodermal
gene regulatory networks in veg2-derived cells and extinguishes the endodermal
gene regulatory network in mesodermal precursors. It also generates a
cross-regulatory network that specifies future anterior endoderm in veg2
descendants and institutes a distinct network specifying posterior endoderm in
veg1-derived cells. The network model provides an explanatory framework that
relates endoderm specification to the genomic regulatory code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10100 
PMCID: PMC3976212
PMID: 21623371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Nature. 2011 May 29;474(7353):645-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10094.

Latent TGF-β binding protein 3 identifies a second heart field in zebrafish.

Zhou Y(1), Cashman TJ, Nevis KR, Obregon P, Carney SA, Liu Y, Gu A, Mosimann C,
Sondalle S, Peterson RE, Heideman W, Burns CE, Burns CG.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown,
Massachusetts 02129, USA.

The four-chambered mammalian heart develops from two fields of cardiac progenitor
cells distinguished by their spatiotemporal patterns of differentiation and
contributions to the definitive heart. The first heart field differentiates
earlier in lateral plate mesoderm, generates the linear heart tube and ultimately
gives rise to the left ventricle. The second heart field (SHF) differentiates
later in pharyngeal mesoderm, elongates the heart tube, and gives rise to the
outflow tract and much of the right ventricle. Because hearts in lower
vertebrates contain a rudimentary outflow tract but not a right ventricle, the
existence and function of SHF-like cells in these species has remained a topic of
speculation. Here we provide direct evidence from Cre/Lox-mediated lineage
tracing and loss-of-function studies in zebrafish, a lower vertebrate with a
single ventricle, that latent TGF-β binding protein 3 (ltbp3) transcripts mark a 
field of cardiac progenitor cells with defining characteristics of the anterior
SHF in mammals. Specifically, ltbp3(+) cells differentiate in pharyngeal mesoderm
after formation of the heart tube, elongate the heart tube at the outflow pole,
and give rise to three cardiovascular lineages in the outflow tract and
myocardium in the distal ventricle. In addition to expressing Ltbp3, a protein
that regulates the bioavailability of TGF-β ligands, zebrafish SHF cells
co-express nkx2.5, an evolutionarily conserved marker of cardiac progenitor cells
in both fields. Embryos devoid of ltbp3 lack the same cardiac structures derived 
from ltbp3(+) cells due to compromised progenitor proliferation. Furthermore,
small-molecule inhibition of TGF-β signalling phenocopies the ltbp3-morphant
phenotype whereas expression of a constitutively active TGF-β type I receptor
rescues it. Taken together, our findings uncover a requirement for ltbp3-TGF-β
signalling during zebrafish SHF development, a process that serves to enlarge the
single ventricular chamber in this species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10094 
PMCID: PMC3319150
PMID: 21623370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nature. 2011 May 29;474(7352):511-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10085.

Regulation of angiogenesis by a non-canonical Wnt-Flt1 pathway in myeloid cells.

Stefater JA 3rd(1), Lewkowich I, Rao S, Mariggi G, Carpenter AC, Burr AR, Fan J, 
Ajima R, Molkentin JD, Williams BO, Wills-Karp M, Pollard JW, Yamaguchi T,
Ferrara N, Gerhardt H, Lang RA.

Author information: 
(1)The Visual Systems Group, Division of Pediatric Ophthalmology, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.

Myeloid cells are a feature of most tissues. Here we show that during
development, retinal myeloid cells (RMCs) produce Wnt ligands to regulate blood
vessel branching. In the mouse retina, where angiogenesis occurs postnatally,
somatic deletion in RMCs of the Wnt ligand transporter Wntless results in
increased angiogenesis in the deeper layers. We also show that mutation of Wnt5a 
and Wnt11 results in increased angiogenesis and that these ligands elicit RMC
responses via a non-canonical Wnt pathway. Using cultured myeloid-like cells and 
RMC somatic deletion of Flt1, we show that an effector of Wnt-dependent
suppression of angiogenesis by RMCs is Flt1, a naturally occurring inhibitor of
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). These findings indicate that resident 
myeloid cells can use a non-canonical, Wnt-Flt1 pathway to suppress angiogenic
branching.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10085 
PMCID: PMC3214992
PMID: 21623369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nature. 2011 May 29;474(7353):662-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10099.

Single-molecule fluorescence reveals sequence-specific misfolding in multidomain 
proteins.

Borgia MB(1), Borgia A, Best RB, Steward A, Nettels D, Wunderlich B, Schuler B,
Clarke J.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Chemical Laboratory, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2
1EW, UK.

A large range of debilitating medical conditions is linked to protein misfolding,
which may compete with productive folding particularly in proteins containing
multiple domains. Seventy-five per cent of the eukaryotic proteome consists of
multidomain proteins, yet it is not understood how interdomain misfolding is
avoided. It has been proposed that maintaining low sequence identity between
covalently linked domains is a mechanism to avoid misfolding. Here we use
single-molecule Förster resonance energy transfer to detect and quantify rare
misfolding events in tandem immunoglobulin domains from the I band of titin under
native conditions. About 5.5 per cent of molecules with identical domains misfold
during refolding in vitro and form an unexpectedly stable state with an unfolding
half-time of several days. Tandem arrays of immunoglobulin-like domains in humans
show significantly lower sequence identity between neighbouring domains than
between non-adjacent domains. In particular, the sequence identity of
neighbouring domains has been found to be preferentially below 40 per cent. We
observe no misfolding for a tandem of naturally neighbouring domains with low
sequence identity (24 per cent), whereas misfolding occurs between domains that
are 42 per cent identical. Coarse-grained molecular simulations predict the
formation of domain-swapped structures that are in excellent agreement with the
observed transfer efficiency of the misfolded species. We infer that the
interactions underlying misfolding are very specific and result in a
sequence-specific domain-swapping mechanism. Diversifying the sequence between
neighbouring domains seems to be a successful evolutionary strategy to avoid
misfolding in multidomain proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10099 
PMCID: PMC3160465
PMID: 21623368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Nature. 2011 May 26;476(7359):220-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10202.

Induction of human neuronal cells by defined transcription factors.

Pang ZP(1), Yang N, Vierbuchen T, Ostermeier A, Fuentes DR, Yang TQ, Citri A,
Sebastiano V, Marro S, Südhof TC, Wernig M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 265 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):158-9.

Somatic cell nuclear transfer, cell fusion, or expression of lineage-specific
factors have been shown to induce cell-fate changes in diverse somatic cell
types. We recently observed that forced expression of a combination of three
transcription factors, Brn2 (also known as Pou3f2), Ascl1 and Myt1l, can
efficiently convert mouse fibroblasts into functional induced neuronal (iN)
cells. Here we show that the same three factors can generate functional neurons
from human pluripotent stem cells as early as 6 days after transgene activation. 
When combined with the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor NeuroD1, these
factors could also convert fetal and postnatal human fibroblasts into iN cells
showing typical neuronal morphologies and expressing multiple neuronal markers,
even after downregulation of the exogenous transcription factors. Importantly,
the vast majority of human iN cells were able to generate action potentials and
many matured to receive synaptic contacts when co-cultured with primary mouse
cortical neurons. Our data demonstrate that non-neural human somatic cells, as
well as pluripotent stem cells, can be converted directly into neurons by
lineage-determining transcription factors. These methods may facilitate robust
generation of patient-specific human neurons for in vitro disease modelling or
future applications in regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10202 
PMCID: PMC3159048
PMID: 21617644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):519-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10004.

Long-term evolution and transmission dynamics of swine influenza A virus.

Vijaykrishna D(1), Smith GJ, Pybus OG, Zhu H, Bhatt S, Poon LL, Riley S, Bahl J, 
Ma SK, Cheung CL, Perera RA, Chen H, Shortridge KF, Webby RJ, Webster RG, Guan Y,
Peiris JS.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases & Department of
Microbiology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, 21
Sassoon Road, Pokfulam, Hong Kong, China.

Swine influenza A viruses (SwIV) cause significant economic losses in animal
husbandry as well as instances of human disease and occasionally give rise to
human pandemics, including that caused by the H1N1/2009 virus. The lack of
systematic and longitudinal influenza surveillance in pigs has hampered attempts 
to reconstruct the origins of this pandemic. Most existing swine data were
derived from opportunistic samples collected from diseased pigs in disparate
geographical regions, not from prospective studies in defined locations, hence
the evolutionary and transmission dynamics of SwIV are poorly understood. Here we
quantify the epidemiological, genetic and antigenic dynamics of SwIV in Hong Kong
using a data set of more than 650 SwIV isolates and more than 800 swine sera from
12 years of systematic surveillance in this region, supplemented with data
stretching back 34 years. Intercontinental virus movement has led to reassortment
and lineage replacement, creating an antigenically and genetically diverse virus 
population whose dynamics are quantitatively different from those previously
observed for human influenza viruses. Our findings indicate that increased
antigenic drift is associated with reassortment events and offer insights into
the emergence of influenza viruses with epidemic potential in swine and humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10004 
PMID: 21614079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):510-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09920.

A giant Ordovician anomalocaridid.

Van Roy P(1), Briggs DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, PO Box 208109, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Anomalocaridids, giant lightly sclerotized invertebrate predators, occur in a
number of exceptionally preserved early and middle Cambrian (542-501 million
years ago) biotas and have come to symbolize the unfamiliar morphologies
displayed by stem organisms in faunas of the Burgess Shale type. They are
characterized by a pair of anterior, segmented appendages, a circlet of plates
around the mouth, and an elongate segmented trunk lacking true tergites with a
pair of flexible lateral lobes per segment. Disarticulated body parts, such as
the anterior appendages and oral circlet, had been assigned to a range of
taxonomic groups--but the discovery of complete specimens from the middle
Cambrian Burgess Shale showed that these disparate elements all belong to a
single kind of animal. Phylogenetic analyses support a position of
anomalocaridids in the arthropod stem, as a sister group to the euarthropods. The
anomalocaridids were the largest animals in Cambrian communities. The youngest
unequivocal examples occur in the middle Cambrian Marjum Formation of Utah but an
arthropod retaining some anomalocaridid characteristics is present in the
Devonian of Germany. Here we report the post-Cambrian occurrence of
anomalocaridids, from the Early Ordovician (488-472 million years ago) Fezouata
Biota in southeastern Morocco, including specimens larger than any in Cambrian
biotas. These giant animals were an important element of some marine communities 
for about 30 million years longer than previously realized. The Moroccan
specimens confirm the presence of a dorsal array of flexible blades attached to a
transverse rachis on the trunk segments; these blades probably functioned as
gills.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09920 
PMID: 21614078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):493-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10104.

Improved measurement of the shape of the electron.

Hudson JJ(1), Kara DM, Smallman IJ, Sauer BE, Tarbutt MR, Hinds EA.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cold Matter, Blackett Laboratory, Imperial College London, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2AZ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):459-60.

The electron is predicted to be slightly aspheric, with a distortion
characterized by the electric dipole moment (EDM), d(e). No experiment has ever
detected this deviation. The standard model of particle physics predicts that
d(e) is far too small to detect, being some eleven orders of magnitude smaller
than the current experimental sensitivity. However, many extensions to the
standard model naturally predict much larger values of d(e) that should be
detectable. This makes the search for the electron EDM a powerful way to search
for new physics and constrain the possible extensions. In particular, the popular
idea that new supersymmetric particles may exist at masses of a few hundred
GeV/c(2) (where c is the speed of light) is difficult to reconcile with the
absence of an electron EDM at the present limit of sensitivity. The size of the
EDM is also intimately related to the question of why the Universe has so little 
antimatter. If the reason is that some undiscovered particle interaction breaks
the symmetry between matter and antimatter, this should result in a measurable
EDM in most models of particle physics. Here we use cold polar molecules to
measure the electron EDM at the highest level of precision reported so far,
providing a constraint on any possible new interactions. We obtain d(e) =
(-2.4 ± 5.7(stat) ± 1.5(syst)) × 10(-28)e cm, where e is the charge on the
electron, which sets a new upper limit of |d(e)| < 10.5 × 10(-28)e cm with 90 per
cent confidence. This result, consistent with zero, indicates that the electron
is spherical at this improved level of precision. Our measurement of
atto-electronvolt energy shifts in a molecule probes new physics at the
tera-electronvolt energy scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10104 
PMID: 21614077 


514. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature10077.

Hf-W-Th evidence for rapid growth of Mars and its status as a planetary embryo.

Dauphas N(1), Pourmand A.

Author information: 
(1)Origins Laboratory, Department of the Geophysical Sciences and Enrico Fermi
Institute, The University of Chicago, 5734 South Ellis Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 
60637, USA. dauphas@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):460-1.

Terrestrial planets are thought to have formed through collisions between large
planetary embryos of diameter ∼1,000-5,000 km. For Earth, the last of these
collisions involved an impact by a Mars-size embryo that formed the Moon
50-150 million years (Myr) after the birth of the Solar System. Although model
simulations of the growth of terrestrial planets can reproduce the mass and
dynamical parameters of the Earth and Venus, they fall short of explaining the
small size of Mars. One possibility is that Mars was a planetary embryo that
escaped collision and merging with other embryos. To assess this idea, it is
crucial to know Mars' accretion timescale, which can be investigated using the
(182)Hf-(182)W decay system in shergottite-nakhlite-chassignite meteorites.
Nevertheless, this timescale remains poorly constrained owing to a large
uncertainty associated with the Hf/W ratio of the Martian mantle and as a result,
contradicting timescales have been reported that range between 0 and 15 Myr (refs
6-10). Here we show that Mars accreted very rapidly and reached about half of its
present size in only 1.8(+0.9)(-1.0) Myr or less, which is consistent with a
stranded planetary embryo origin. We have found a well-defined correlation
between the Th/Hf and (176)Hf/(177)Hf ratios in chondrites that reflects
remobilization of Lu and Th during parent-body processes. Using this
relationship, we estimate the Hf/W ratio in Mars' mantle to be 3.51 ± 0.45. This 
value is much more precise than previous estimates, which ranged between 2.6 and 
5.0 (ref. 6), and lifts the large uncertainty that plagued previous estimates of 
the age of Mars. Our results also demonstrate that Mars grew before dissipation
of the nebular gas when ∼100-km planetesimals, such as the parent bodies of
chondrites, were still being formed. Mars' accretion occurred early enough to
allow establishment of a magma ocean powered by decay of (26)Al.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10077 
PMID: 21614076 


515. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):484-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10016.

Probing cellular protein complexes using single-molecule pull-down.

Jain A(1), Liu R, Ramani B, Arauz E, Ishitsuka Y, Ragunathan K, Park J, Chen J,
Xiang YK, Ha T.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology and Institute for Genomic
Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):461-2.
    Nat Methods. 2011 Jul;8(7):535.

Proteins perform most cellular functions in macromolecular complexes. The same
protein often participates in different complexes to exhibit diverse
functionality. Current ensemble approaches of identifying cellular protein
interactions cannot reveal physiological permutations of these interactions. Here
we describe a single-molecule pull-down (SiMPull) assay that combines the
principles of a conventional pull-down assay with single-molecule fluorescence
microscopy and enables direct visualization of individual cellular protein
complexes. SiMPull can reveal how many proteins and of which kinds are present in
the in vivo complex, as we show using protein kinase A. We then demonstrate a
wide applicability to various signalling proteins found in the cytosol, membrane 
and cellular organelles, and to endogenous protein complexes from animal tissue
extracts. The pulled-down proteins are functional and are used, without further
processing, for single-molecule biochemical studies. SiMPull should provide a
rapid, sensitive and robust platform for analysing protein assemblies in
biological pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10016 
PMCID: PMC3103084
PMID: 21614075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):470-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10108.

Catalysis for fluorination and trifluoromethylation.

Furuya T(1), Kamlet AS, Ritter T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Recent advances in catalysis have made the incorporation of fluorine into complex
organic molecules easier than ever before, but selective, general and practical
fluorination reactions remain sought after. Fluorination of molecules often
imparts desirable properties, such as metabolic and thermal stability, and
fluorinated molecules are therefore frequently used as pharmaceuticals or
materials. But the formation of carbon-fluorine bonds in complex molecules is a
significant challenge. Here we discuss reactions to make organofluorides that
have emerged within the past few years and which exemplify how to overcome some
of the intricate challenges associated with fluorination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10108 
PMCID: PMC3119199
PMID: 21614074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):463-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10124.

A 2020 vision for vaccines against HIV, tuberculosis and malaria.

Rappuoli R(1), Aderem A.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, 53100 Siena, Italy.
rino.rappuoli@novartis.com

Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), malaria and tuberculosis collectively
cause more than five million deaths per year, but have nonetheless eluded
conventional vaccine development; for this reason they represent one of the major
global public health challenges as we enter the second decade of the twenty-first
century. Recent trials have provided evidence that it is possible to develop
vaccines that can prevent infection by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and
malaria. Furthermore, advances in vaccinology, including novel adjuvants,
prime-boost regimes and strategies for intracellular antigen presentation, have
led to progress in developing a vaccine against tuberculosis. Here we discuss
these advances and suggest that new tools such as systems biology and
structure-based antigen design will lead to a deeper understanding of mechanisms 
of protection which, in turn, will lead to rational vaccine development. We also 
argue that new and innovative approaches to clinical trials will accelerate the
availability of these vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10124 
PMID: 21614073  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):497-500. doi: 10.1038/nature10013. Epub 2011 May
18.

Interannual atmospheric variability forced by the deep equatorial Atlantic Ocean.

Brandt P(1), Funk A, Hormann V, Dengler M, Greatbatch RJ, Toole JM.

Author information: 
(1)IFM-GEOMAR, Leibniz-Institut für Meereswissenschaften an der Universität Kiel,
Düsternbrooker Weg 20, 24105 Kiel, Germany. pbrandt@ifm-geomar.de

Climate variability in the tropical Atlantic Ocean is determined by large-scale
ocean-atmosphere interactions, which particularly affect deep atmospheric
convection over the ocean and surrounding continents. Apart from influences from 
the Pacific El Niño/Southern Oscillation and the North Atlantic Oscillation, the 
tropical Atlantic variability is thought to be dominated by two distinct
ocean-atmosphere coupled modes of variability that are characterized by
meridional and zonal sea-surface-temperature gradients and are mainly active on
decadal and interannual timescales, respectively. Here we report evidence that
the intrinsic ocean dynamics of the deep equatorial Atlantic can also affect sea 
surface temperature, wind and rainfall in the tropical Atlantic region and
constitutes a 4.5-yr climate cycle. Specifically, vertically alternating deep
zonal jets of short vertical wavelength with a period of about 4.5 yr and
amplitudes of more than 10 cm s(-1) are observed, in the deep Atlantic, to
propagate their energy upwards, towards the surface. They are linked, at the sea 
surface, to equatorial zonal current anomalies and eastern Atlantic temperature
anomalies that have amplitudes of about 6 cm s(-1) and 0.4 °C, respectively, and 
are associated with distinct wind and rainfall patterns. Although deep jets are
also observed in the Pacific and Indian oceans, only the Atlantic deep jets seem 
to oscillate on interannual timescales. Our knowledge of the persistence and
regularity of these jets is limited by the availability of high-quality data.
Despite this caveat, the oscillatory behaviour can still be used to improve
predictions of sea surface temperature in the tropical Atlantic. Deep-jet
generation and upward energy transmission through the Equatorial Undercurrent
warrant further theoretical study.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10013 
PMID: 21593764 


519. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):532-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09970. Epub 2011 May 15.

Neural crest regulates myogenesis through the transient activation of NOTCH.

Rios AC(1), Serralbo O, Salgado D, Marcelle C.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL Australia, Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University,
Building 75, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2011 Aug 16;21(2):187-8.

How dynamic signalling and extensive tissue rearrangements interact to generate
complex patterns and shapes during embryogenesis is poorly understood. Here we
characterize the signalling events taking place during early morphogenesis of
chick skeletal muscles. We show that muscle progenitors present in somites
require the transient activation of NOTCH signalling to undergo terminal
differentiation. The NOTCH ligand Delta1 is expressed in a mosaic pattern in
neural crest cells that migrate past the somites. Gain and loss of Delta1
function in neural crest modifies NOTCH signalling in somites, which results in
delayed or premature myogenesis. Our results indicate that the neural crest
regulates early muscle formation by a unique mechanism that relies on the
migration of Delta1-expressing neural crest cells to trigger the transient
activation of NOTCH signalling in selected muscle progenitors. This dynamic
signalling guarantees a balanced and progressive differentiation of the muscle
progenitor pool.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09970 
PMID: 21572437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):523-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10003. Epub 2011 May 11.

Profound early control of highly pathogenic SIV by an effector memory T-cell
vaccine.

Hansen SG(1), Ford JC, Lewis MS, Ventura AB, Hughes CM, Coyne-Johnson L, Whizin
N, Oswald K, Shoemaker R, Swanson T, Legasse AW, Chiuchiolo MJ, Parks CL, Axthelm
MK, Nelson JA, Jarvis MA, Piatak M Jr, Lifson JD, Picker LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine and Gene Therapy Institute, Department of Molecular Microbiology,
Oregon Health & Science University, Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):456-7.

The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-causing lentiviruses human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) effectively 
evade host immunity and, once established, infections with these viruses are only
rarely controlled by immunological mechanisms. However, the initial establishment
of infection in the first few days after mucosal exposure, before viral
dissemination and massive replication, may be more vulnerable to immune control. 
Here we report that SIV vaccines that include rhesus cytomegalovirus (RhCMV)
vectors establish indefinitely persistent, high-frequency, SIV-specific effector 
memory T-cell (T(EM)) responses at potential sites of SIV replication in rhesus
macaques and stringently control highly pathogenic SIV(MAC239) infection early
after mucosal challenge. Thirteen of twenty-four rhesus macaques receiving either
RhCMV vectors alone or RhCMV vectors followed by adenovirus 5 (Ad5) vectors
(versus 0 of 9 DNA/Ad5-vaccinated rhesus macaques) manifested early complete
control of SIV (undetectable plasma virus), and in twelve of these thirteen
animals we observed long-term (≥1 year) protection. This was characterized by:
occasional blips of plasma viraemia that ultimately waned; predominantly
undetectable cell-associated viral load in blood and lymph node mononuclear
cells; no depletion of effector-site CD4(+) memory T cells; no induction or
boosting of SIV Env-specific antibodies; and induction and then loss of T-cell
responses to an SIV protein (Vif) not included in the RhCMV vectors. Protection
correlated with the magnitude of the peak SIV-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses in
the vaccine phase, and occurred without anamnestic T-cell responses. Remarkably, 
long-term RhCMV vector-associated SIV control was insensitive to either CD8(+) or
CD4(+) lymphocyte depletion and, at necropsy, cell-associated SIV was only
occasionally measurable at the limit of detection with ultrasensitive assays,
observations that indicate the possibility of eventual viral clearance. Thus,
persistent vectors such as CMV and their associated T(EM) responses might
significantly contribute to an efficacious HIV/AIDS vaccine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10003 
PMCID: PMC3102768
PMID: 21562493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):501-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09993. Epub 2011 May 11.

Inferring nonlinear mantle rheology from the shape of the Hawaiian swell.

Asaadi N(1), Ribe NM, Sobouti F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Advanced Studies in Basic Sciences, Zanjan 45137-66731, Iran.
n_asaadi@iasbs.ac.ir

The convective circulation generated within the Earth's mantle by buoyancy forces
of thermal and compositional origin is intimately controlled by the rheology of
the rocks that compose it. These can deform either by the diffusion of point
defects (diffusion creep, with a linear relationship between strain rate and
stress) or by the movement of intracrystalline dislocations (nonlinear
dislocation creep). However, there is still no reliable map showing where in the 
mantle each of these mechanisms is dominant, and so it is important to identify
regions where the operative mechanism can be inferred directly from surface
geophysical observations. Here we identify a new observable quantity--the rate of
downstream decay of the anomalous seafloor topography (swell) produced by a
mantle plume--which depends only on the value of the exponent in the strain rate 
versus stress relationship that defines the difference between diffusion and
dislocation creep. Comparison of the Hawaiian swell topography with the
predictions of a simple fluid mechanical model shows that the swell shape is
poorly explained by diffusion creep, and requires a dislocation creep rheology.
The rheology predicted by the model is reasonably consistent with laboratory
deformation data for both olivine and clinopyroxene, suggesting that the source
of Hawaiian lavas could contain either or both of these components.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09993 
PMID: 21562491 


522. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):528-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09968. Epub 2011 May 1.

Aberrant lipid metabolism disrupts calcium homeostasis causing liver endoplasmic 
reticulum stress in obesity.

Fu S(1), Yang L, Li P, Hofmann O, Dicker L, Hide W, Lin X, Watkins SM, Ivanov AR,
Hotamisligil GS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2011 Dec;54(6):2260-5.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Jul;8(7):360.

The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the main site of protein and lipid synthesis,
membrane biogenesis, xenobiotic detoxification and cellular calcium storage, and 
perturbation of ER homeostasis leads to stress and the activation of the unfolded
protein response. Chronic activation of ER stress has been shown to have an
important role in the development of insulin resistance and diabetes in obesity. 
However, the mechanisms that lead to chronic ER stress in a metabolic context in 
general, and in obesity in particular, are not understood. Here we comparatively 
examined the proteomic and lipidomic landscape of hepatic ER purified from lean
and obese mice to explore the mechanisms of chronic ER stress in obesity. We
found suppression of protein but stimulation of lipid synthesis in the obese ER
without significant alterations in chaperone content. Alterations in ER fatty
acid and lipid composition result in the inhibition of sarco/endoplasmic
reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) activity and ER stress. Correcting the
obesity-induced alteration of ER phospholipid composition or hepatic Serca
overexpression in vivo both reduced chronic ER stress and improved glucose
homeostasis. Hence, we established that abnormal lipid and calcium metabolism are
important contributors to hepatic ER stress in obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09968 
PMCID: PMC3102791
PMID: 21532591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):514-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09946. Epub 2011 May 1.

Learning-related feedforward inhibitory connectivity growth required for memory
precision.

Ruediger S(1), Vittori C, Bednarek E, Genoud C, Strata P, Sacchetti B, Caroni P.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute, Maulbeerstrasse 66, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jul;12(7):372-3.

In the adult brain, new synapses are formed and pre-existing ones are lost, but
the function of this structural plasticity has remained unclear. Learning of new 
skills is correlated with formation of new synapses. These may directly encode
new memories, but they may also have more general roles in memory encoding and
retrieval processes. Here we investigated how mossy fibre terminal complexes at
the entry of hippocampal and cerebellar circuits rearrange upon learning in mice,
and what is the functional role of the rearrangements. We show that one-trial and
incremental learning lead to robust, circuit-specific, long-lasting and
reversible increases in the numbers of filopodial synapses onto fast-spiking
interneurons that trigger feedforward inhibition. The increase in feedforward
inhibition connectivity involved a majority of the presynaptic terminals,
restricted the numbers of c-Fos-expressing postsynaptic neurons at memory
retrieval, and correlated temporally with the quality of the memory. We then show
that for contextual fear conditioning and Morris water maze learning, increased
feedforward inhibition connectivity by hippocampal mossy fibres has a critical
role for the precision of the memory and the learned behaviour. In the absence of
mossy fibre long-term potentiation in Rab3a(-/-) mice, c-Fos ensemble
reorganization and feedforward inhibition growth were both absent in CA3 upon
learning, and the memory was imprecise. By contrast, in the absence of adducin 2 
(Add2; also known as β-adducin) c-Fos reorganization was normal, but feedforward 
inhibition growth was abolished. In parallel, c-Fos ensembles in CA3 were greatly
enlarged, and the memory was imprecise. Feedforward inhibition growth and memory 
precision were both rescued by re-expression of Add2 specifically in hippocampal 
mossy fibres. These results establish a causal relationship between
learning-related increases in the numbers of defined synapses and the precision
of learning and memory in the adult. The results further relate plasticity and
feedforward inhibition growth at hippocampal mossy fibres to the precision of
hippocampus-dependent memories.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09946 
PMID: 21532590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):540-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09964. Epub 2011 May 1.

Improved molecular replacement by density- and energy-guided protein structure
optimization.

DiMaio F(1), Terwilliger TC, Read RJ, Wlodawer A, Oberdorfer G, Wagner U, Valkov 
E, Alon A, Fass D, Axelrod HL, Das D, Vorobiev SM, Iwaï H, Pokkuluri PR, Baker D.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Department of Biochemistry and HHMI, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Molecular replacement procedures, which search for placements of a starting model
within the crystallographic unit cell that best account for the measured
diffraction amplitudes, followed by automatic chain tracing methods, have allowed
the rapid solution of large numbers of protein crystal structures. Despite
extensive work, molecular replacement or the subsequent rebuilding usually fail
with more divergent starting models based on remote homologues with less than 30%
sequence identity. Here we show that this limitation can be substantially reduced
by combining algorithms for protein structure modelling with those developed for 
crystallographic structure determination. An approach integrating Rosetta
structure modelling with Autobuild chain tracing yielded high-resolution
structures for 8 of 13 X-ray diffraction data sets that could not be solved in
the laboratories of expert crystallographers and that remained unsolved after
application of an extensive array of alternative approaches. We estimate that the
new method should allow rapid structure determination without experimental phase 
information for over half the cases where current methods fail, given diffraction
data sets of better than 3.2 Å resolution, four or fewer copies in the asymmetric
unit, and the availability of structures of homologous proteins with >20%
sequence identity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09964 
PMCID: PMC3365536
PMID: 21532589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):536-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09956. Epub 2011 Apr 24.

Structure of the spliceosomal U4 snRNP core domain and its implication for snRNP 
biogenesis.

Leung AK(1), Nagai K, Li J.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

The spliceosome is a dynamic macromolecular machine that assembles on
pre-messenger RNA substrates and catalyses the excision of non-coding intervening
sequences (introns). Four of the five major components of the spliceosome, U1,
U2, U4 and U5 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), contain seven Sm
proteins (SmB/B', SmD1, SmD2, SmD3, SmE, SmF and SmG) in common. Following export
of the U1, U2, U4 and U5 snRNAs to the cytoplasm, the seven Sm proteins,
chaperoned by the survival of motor neurons (SMN) complex, assemble around a
single-stranded, U-rich sequence called the Sm site in each small nuclear RNA
(snRNA), to form the core domain of the respective snRNP particle. Core domain
formation is a prerequisite for re-import into the nucleus, where these snRNPs
mature via addition of their particle-specific proteins. Here we present a
crystal structure of the U4 snRNP core domain at 3.6 Å resolution, detailing how 
the Sm site heptad (AUUUUUG) binds inside the central hole of the heptameric ring
of Sm proteins, interacting one-to-one with SmE-SmG-SmD3-SmB-SmD1-SmD2-SmF. An
irregular backbone conformation of the Sm site sequence combined with the
asymmetric structure of the heteromeric protein ring allows each base to interact
in a distinct manner with four key residues at equivalent positions in the L3 and
L5 loops of the Sm fold. A comparison of this structure with the U1 snRNP at
5.5 Å resolution reveals snRNA-dependent structural changes outside the Sm fold, 
which may facilitate the binding of particle-specific proteins that are crucial
to biogenesis of spliceosomal snRNPs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09956 
PMCID: PMC3103711
PMID: 21516107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):478-83. doi: 10.1038/nature10093. Epub 2011 Apr 24.

Royalactin induces queen differentiation in honeybees.

Kamakura M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Toyama Prefectural University, Imizu, Toyama
939-0398, Japan. kamakura@pu-toyama.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):454-5.

The honeybee (Apis mellifera) forms two female castes: the queen and the worker. 
This dimorphism depends not on genetic differences, but on ingestion of royal
jelly, although the mechanism through which royal jelly regulates caste
differentiation has long remained unknown. Here I show that a 57-kDa protein in
royal jelly, previously designated as royalactin, induces the differentiation of 
honeybee larvae into queens. Royalactin increased body size and ovary development
and shortened developmental time in honeybees. Surprisingly, it also showed
similar effects in the fruitfly (Drosophila melanogaster). Mechanistic studies
revealed that royalactin activated p70 S6 kinase, which was responsible for the
increase of body size, increased the activity of mitogen-activated protein
kinase, which was involved in the decreased developmental time, and increased the
titre of juvenile hormone, an essential hormone for ovary development. Knockdown 
of epidermal growth factor receptor (Egfr) expression in the fat body of
honeybees and fruitflies resulted in a defect of all phenotypes induced by
royalactin, showing that Egfr mediates these actions. These findings indicate
that a specific factor in royal jelly, royalactin, drives queen development
through an Egfr-mediated signalling pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10093 
PMID: 21516106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 2011 May 26;473(7348):505-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09943. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Earth's earliest non-marine eukaryotes.

Strother PK(1), Battison L, Brasier MD, Wellman CH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Boston College, Weston,
Massachusetts 02493, USA. Strother@bc.edu

The existence of a terrestrial Precambrian (more than 542 Myr ago) biota has been
largely inferred from indirect chemical and geological evidence associated with
palaeosols, the weathering of clay minerals and microbially induced sedimentary
structures in siliciclastic sediments. Direct evidence of fossils within rocks of
non-marine origin in the Precambrian is exceedingly rare. The most widely cited
example comprises a single report of morphologically simple mineralized tubes and
spheres interpreted as cyanobacteria, obtained from 1,200-Myr-old palaeokarst in 
Arizona. Organic-walled microfossils were first described from the non-marine
Torridonian (1.2-1.0 Gyr ago) sequence of northwest Scotland in 1907. Subsequent 
studies found few distinctive taxa-a century later, the Torridonian microflora is
still being characterized as primarily nondescript "leiospheres". We have
comprehensively sampled grey shales and phosphatic nodules throughout the
Torridonian sequence. Here we report the recovery of large populations of diverse
organic-walled microfossils extracted by acid maceration, complemented by studies
using thin sections of phosphatic nodules that yield exceptionally detailed
three-dimensional preservation. These assemblages contain multicellular
structures, complex-walled cysts, asymmetric organic structures, and
dorsiventral, compressed organic thalli, some approaching one millimetre in
diameter. They offer direct evidence of eukaryotes living in freshwater aquatic
and subaerially exposed habitats during the Proterozoic era. The apparent
dominance of eukaryotes in non-marine settings by 1 Gyr ago indicates that
eukaryotic evolution on land may have commenced far earlier than previously
thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09943 
PMID: 21490597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Nature. 2011 May 25;474(7352):506-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10111.

A nuclear-receptor-dependent phosphatidylcholine pathway with antidiabetic
effects.

Lee JM(1), Lee YK, Mamrosh JL, Busby SA, Griffin PR, Pathak MC, Ortlund EA, Moore
DD.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2012 Apr;56(4):987-9.
    Hepatology. 2011 Dec;54(6):2265-7.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 23;474(7352):455-6.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Jul;10(7):493.

Nuclear hormone receptors regulate diverse metabolic pathways and the orphan
nuclear receptor LRH-1 (also known as NR5A2) regulates bile acid biosynthesis.
Structural studies have identified phospholipids as potential LRH-1 ligands, but 
their functional relevance is unclear. Here we show that an unusual
phosphatidylcholine species with two saturated 12 carbon fatty acid acyl side
chains (dilauroyl phosphatidylcholine (DLPC)) is an LRH-1 agonist ligand in
vitro. DLPC treatment induces bile acid biosynthetic enzymes in mouse liver,
increases bile acid levels, and lowers hepatic triglycerides and serum glucose.
DLPC treatment also decreases hepatic steatosis and improves glucose homeostasis 
in two mouse models of insulin resistance. Both the antidiabetic and lipotropic
effects are lost in liver-specific Lrh-1 knockouts. These findings identify an
LRH-1 dependent phosphatidylcholine signalling pathway that regulates bile acid
metabolism and glucose homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10111 
PMCID: PMC3150801
PMID: 21614002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Nature. 2011 May 25;474(7351):380-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10110.

Transcriptomic analysis of autistic brain reveals convergent molecular pathology.

Voineagu I(1), Wang X, Johnston P, Lowe JK, Tian Y, Horvath S, Mill J, Cantor RM,
Blencowe BJ, Geschwind DH.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neurogenetics and Neurobehavioral Genetics, Department of Neurology
and Semel Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California,
Los Angeles, California 90095-1769, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):294-5.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Jul;12(7):456-7.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jul;12(7):372.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a common, highly heritable neurodevelopmental
condition characterized by marked genetic heterogeneity. Thus, a fundamental
question is whether autism represents an aetiologically heterogeneous disorder in
which the myriad genetic or environmental risk factors perturb common underlying 
molecular pathways in the brain. Here, we demonstrate consistent differences in
transcriptome organization between autistic and normal brain by gene
co-expression network analysis. Remarkably, regional patterns of gene expression 
that typically distinguish frontal and temporal cortex are significantly
attenuated in the ASD brain, suggesting abnormalities in cortical patterning. We 
further identify discrete modules of co-expressed genes associated with autism: a
neuronal module enriched for known autism susceptibility genes, including the
neuronal specific splicing factor A2BP1 (also known as FOX1), and a module
enriched for immune genes and glial markers. Using high-throughput RNA sequencing
we demonstrate dysregulated splicing of A2BP1-dependent alternative exons in the 
ASD brain. Moreover, using a published autism genome-wide association study
(GWAS) data set, we show that the neuronal module is enriched for genetically
associated variants, providing independent support for the causal involvement of 
these genes in autism. In contrast, the immune-glial module showed no enrichment 
for autism GWAS signals, indicating a non-genetic aetiology for this process.
Collectively, our results provide strong evidence for convergent molecular
abnormalities in ASD, and implicate transcriptional and splicing dysregulation as
underlying mechanisms of neuronal dysfunction in this disorder.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10110 
PMCID: PMC3607626
PMID: 21614001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Nature. 2011 May 25;474(7350):173-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10143.

Role of the ubiquitin-like protein Hub1 in splice-site usage and alternative
splicing.

Mishra SK(1), Ammon T, Popowicz GM, Krajewski M, Nagel RJ, Ares M Jr, Holak TA,
Jentsch S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry, Am
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.

Alternative splicing of pre-messenger RNAs diversifies gene products in
eukaryotes and is guided by factors that enable spliceosomes to recognize
particular splice sites. Here we report that alternative splicing of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae SRC1 pre-mRNA is promoted by the conserved
ubiquitin-like protein Hub1. Structural and biochemical data show that Hub1 binds
non-covalently to a conserved element termed HIND, which is present in the
spliceosomal protein Snu66 in yeast and mammals, and Prp38 in plants. Hub1
binding mildly alters spliceosomal protein interactions and barely affects
general splicing in S. cerevisiae. However, spliceosomes that lack Hub1, or are
defective in Hub1-HIND interaction, cannot use certain non-canonical 5' splice
sites and are defective in alternative SRC1 splicing. Hub1 confers alternative
splicing not only when bound to HIND, but also when experimentally fused to
Snu66, Prp38, or even the core splicing factor Prp8. Our study indicates a novel 
mechanism for splice site utilization that is guided by non-covalent modification
of the spliceosome by an unconventional ubiquitin-like modifier.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10143 
PMCID: PMC3587138
PMID: 21614000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 2011 May 25;474(7353):654-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10117.

SAMHD1 is the dendritic- and myeloid-cell-specific HIV-1 restriction factor
counteracted by Vpx.

Laguette N(1), Sobhian B, Casartelli N, Ringeard M, Chable-Bessia C, Ségéral E,
Yatim A, Emiliani S, Schwartz O, Benkirane M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique Humaine, Laboratoire de Virologie Moléculaire, CNRS
UPR1142, Montpellier 34000, France. nadine.laguette@igh.cnrs.fr

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Jul;11(7):440.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):587-8.

The primate lentivirus auxiliary protein Vpx counteracts an unknown restriction
factor that renders human dendritic and myeloid cells largely refractory to HIV-1
infection. Here we identify SAMHD1 as this restriction factor. SAMHD1 is a
protein involved in Aicardi-Goutières syndrome, a genetic encephalopathy with
symptoms mimicking congenital viral infection, that has been proposed to act as a
negative regulator of the interferon response. We show that Vpx induces
proteasomal degradation of SAMHD1. Silencing of SAMHD1 in non-permissive cell
lines alleviates HIV-1 restriction and is associated with a significant
accumulation of viral DNA in infected cells. Concurrently, overexpression of
SAMHD1 in sensitive cells inhibits HIV-1 infection. The putative phosphohydrolase
activity of SAMHD1 is probably required for HIV-1 restriction. Vpx-mediated
relief of restriction is abolished in SAMHD1-negative cells. Finally, silencing
of SAMHD1 markedly increases the susceptibility of monocytic-derived dendritic
cells to infection. Our results demonstrate that SAMHD1 is an antiretroviral
protein expressed in cells of the myeloid lineage that inhibits an early step of 
the viral life cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10117 
PMCID: PMC3595993
PMID: 21613998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2011 May 22;474(7352):516-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10002.

Determinants of nucleosome organization in primary human cells.

Valouev A(1), Johnson SM, Boyd SD, Smith CL, Fire AZ, Sidow A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 300 Pasteur
Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Jul;12(7):454.

Nucleosomes are the basic packaging units of chromatin, modulating accessibility 
of regulatory proteins to DNA and thus influencing eukaryotic gene regulation.
Elaborate chromatin remodelling mechanisms have evolved that govern nucleosome
organization at promoters, regulatory elements, and other functional regions in
the genome. Analyses of chromatin landscape have uncovered a variety of
mechanisms, including DNA sequence preferences, that can influence nucleosome
positions. To identify major determinants of nucleosome organization in the human
genome, we used deep sequencing to map nucleosome positions in three primary
human cell types and in vitro. A majority of the genome showed substantial
flexibility of nucleosome positions, whereas a small fraction showed reproducibly
positioned nucleosomes. Certain sites that position in vitro can anchor the
formation of nucleosomal arrays that have cell type-specific spacing in vivo. Our
results unveil an interplay of sequence-based nucleosome preferences and
non-nucleosomal factors in determining nucleosome organization within mammalian
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10002 
PMCID: PMC3212987
PMID: 21602827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2011 May 22;474(7351):399-402. doi: 10.1038/nature10084.

Telomere shortening and loss of self-renewal in dyskeratosis congenita induced
pluripotent stem cells.

Batista LF(1), Pech MF, Zhong FL, Nguyen HN, Xie KT, Zaug AJ, Crary SM, Choi J,
Sebastiano V, Cherry A, Giri N, Wernig M, Alter BP, Cech TR, Savage SA, Reijo
Pera RA, Artandi SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

The differentiation of patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to 
committed fates such as neurons, muscle and liver is a powerful approach for
understanding key parameters of human development and disease. Whether
undifferentiated iPSCs themselves can be used to probe disease mechanisms is
uncertain. Dyskeratosis congenita is characterized by defective maintenance of
blood, pulmonary tissue and epidermal tissues and is caused by mutations in genes
controlling telomere homeostasis. Short telomeres, a hallmark of dyskeratosis
congenita, impair tissue stem cell function in mouse models, indicating that a
tissue stem cell defect may underlie the pathophysiology of dyskeratosis
congenita. Here we show that even in the undifferentiated state, iPSCs from
dyskeratosis congenita patients harbour the precise biochemical defects
characteristic of each form of the disease and that the magnitude of the telomere
maintenance defect in iPSCs correlates with clinical severity. In iPSCs from
patients with heterozygous mutations in TERT, the telomerase reverse
transcriptase, a 50% reduction in telomerase levels blunts the natural telomere
elongation that accompanies reprogramming. In contrast, mutation of dyskerin
(DKC1) in X-linked dyskeratosis congenita severely impairs telomerase activity by
blocking telomerase assembly and disrupts telomere elongation during
reprogramming. In iPSCs from a form of dyskeratosis congenita caused by mutations
in TCAB1 (also known as WRAP53), telomerase catalytic activity is unperturbed,
yet the ability of telomerase to lengthen telomeres is abrogated, because
telomerase mislocalizes from Cajal bodies to nucleoli within the iPSCs. Extended 
culture of DKC1-mutant iPSCs leads to progressive telomere shortening and
eventual loss of self-renewal, indicating that a similar process occurs in tissue
stem cells in dyskeratosis congenita patients. These findings in iPSCs from
dyskeratosis congenita patients reveal that undifferentiated iPSCs accurately
recapitulate features of a human stem cell disease and may serve as a
cell-culture-based system for the development of targeted therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10084 
PMCID: PMC3155806
PMID: 21602826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 2011 May 22;474(7352):526-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10015.

Tunable pKa values and the basis of opposite charge selectivities in
nicotinic-type receptors.

Cymes GD(1), Grosman C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Center for Biophysics and 
Computational Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA.

Among ion channels, only the nicotinic-receptor superfamily has evolved to
generate both cation- and anion-selective members. Although other, structurally
unrelated, neurotransmitter-gated cation channels exist, no other type of
neurotransmitter-gated anion channel, and thus no other source of fast synaptic
inhibitory signals, has been described so far. In addition to the seemingly
straightforward electrostatic effect of the presence (in the cation-selective
members) or absence (in the anion-selective ones) of a ring of pore-facing
carboxylates, mutational studies have identified other features of the amino-acid
sequence near the intracellular end of the pore-lining transmembrane segments
(M2) that are also required to achieve the high charge selectivity shown by
native channels. However, the mechanism underlying this more subtle effect has
remained elusive and a subject of speculation. Here we show, using single-channel
electrophysiological recordings to estimate the protonation state of native
ionizable side chains, that anion-selective-type sequences favour whereas
cation-selective-type sequences prevent the protonation of the conserved, buried 
basic residues at the intracellular entrance of the pore (the M2 0' position). We
conclude that the previously unrecognized tunable charge state of the 0' ring of 
buried basic side chains is an essential feature of these channels' versatile
charge-selectivity filter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10015 
PMCID: PMC3121909
PMID: 21602825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 2011 May 22;474(7351):385-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10072.

Detection of prokaryotic mRNA signifies microbial viability and promotes
immunity.

Sander LE(1), Davis MJ, Boekschoten MV, Amsen D, Dascher CC, Ryffel B, Swanson
JA, Müller M, Blander JM.

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Institute, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 
1425 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 6;478(7367):136.

Live vaccines have long been known to trigger far more vigorous immune responses 
than their killed counterparts. This has been attributed to the ability of live
microorganisms to replicate and express specialized virulence factors that
facilitate invasion and infection of their hosts. However, protective
immunization can often be achieved with a single injection of live, but not dead,
attenuated microorganisms stripped of their virulence factors.
Pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), which are detected by the immune 
system, are present in both live and killed vaccines, indicating that certain
poorly characterized aspects of live microorganisms, not incorporated in dead
vaccines, are particularly effective at inducing protective immunity. Here we
show that the mammalian innate immune system can directly sense microbial
viability through detection of a special class of viability-associated PAMPs
(vita-PAMPs). We identify prokaryotic messenger RNA as a vita-PAMP present only
in viable bacteria, the recognition of which elicits a unique innate response and
a robust adaptive antibody response. Notably, the innate response evoked by
viability and prokaryotic mRNA was thus far considered to be reserved for
pathogenic bacteria, but we show that even non-pathogenic bacteria in sterile
tissues can trigger similar responses, provided that they are alive. Thus, the
immune system actively gauges the infectious risk by searching PAMPs for
signatures of microbial life and thus infectivity. Detection of vita-PAMPs
triggers a state of alert not warranted for dead bacteria. Vaccine formulations
that incorporate vita-PAMPs could thus combine the superior protection of live
vaccines with the safety of dead vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10072 
PMCID: PMC3289942
PMID: 21602824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 2011 May 22;474(7351):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10073.

Forces between clustered stereocilia minimize friction in the ear on a
subnanometre scale.

Kozlov AS(1), Baumgart J, Risler T, Versteegh CP, Hudspeth AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience, The
Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

The detection of sound begins when energy derived from an acoustic stimulus
deflects the hair bundles on top of hair cells. As hair bundles move, the viscous
friction between stereocilia and the surrounding liquid poses a fundamental
physical challenge to the ear's high sensitivity and sharp frequency selectivity.
Part of the solution to this problem lies in the active process that uses energy 
for frequency-selective sound amplification. Here we demonstrate that a
complementary part of the solution involves the fluid-structure interaction
between the liquid within the hair bundle and the stereocilia. Using force
measurement on a dynamically scaled model, finite-element analysis, analytical
estimation of hydrodynamic forces, stochastic simulation and high-resolution
interferometric measurement of hair bundles, we characterize the origin and
magnitude of the forces between individual stereocilia during small hair-bundle
deflections. We find that the close apposition of stereocilia effectively
immobilizes the liquid between them, which reduces the drag and suppresses the
relative squeezing but not the sliding mode of stereociliary motion. The
obliquely oriented tip links couple the mechanotransduction channels to this
least dissipative coherent mode, whereas the elastic horizontal top connectors
that stabilize the structure further reduce the drag. As measured from the
distortion products associated with channel gating at physiological stimulation
amplitudes of tens of nanometres, the balance of viscous and elastic forces in a 
hair bundle permits a relative mode of motion between adjacent stereocilia that
encompasses only a fraction of a nanometre. A combination of high-resolution
experiments and detailed numerical modelling of fluid-structure interactions
reveals the physical principles behind the basic structural features of hair
bundles and shows quantitatively how these organelles are adapted to the needs of
sensitive mechanotransduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10073 
PMCID: PMC3150833
PMID: 21602823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):384-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09883.

BCL6 enables Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukaemia cells to survive BCR-ABL1 kinase
inhibition.

Duy C(1), Hurtz C, Shojaee S, Cerchietti L, Geng H, Swaminathan S, Klemm L, Kweon
SM, Nahar R, Braig M, Park E, Kim YM, Hofmann WK, Herzog S, Jumaa H, Koeffler HP,
Yu JJ, Heisterkamp N, Graeber TG, Wu H, Ye BH, Melnick A, Müschen M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2011 Jul 12;20(1):3-5.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jul;11(7):460.

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are widely used to treat patients with
leukaemia driven by BCR-ABL1 (ref. 1) and other oncogenic tyrosine kinases.
Recent efforts have focused on developing more potent TKIs that also inhibit
mutant tyrosine kinases. However, even effective TKIs typically fail to eradicate
leukaemia-initiating cells (LICs), which often cause recurrence of leukaemia
after initially successful treatment. Here we report the discovery of a novel
mechanism of drug resistance, which is based on protective feedback signalling of
leukaemia cells in response to treatment with TKI. We identify BCL6 as a central 
component of this drug-resistance pathway and demonstrate that targeted
inhibition of BCL6 leads to eradication of drug-resistant and
leukaemia-initiating subclones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09883 
PMCID: PMC3597744
PMID: 21593872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):380-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10070.

A novel protein family mediates Casparian strip formation in the endodermis.

Roppolo D(1), De Rybel B, Dénervaud Tendon V, Pfister A, Alassimone J, Vermeer
JE, Yamazaki M, Stierhof YD, Beeckman T, Geldner N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Molecular Biology, Biophore, UNIL-Sorge, University of
Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):294-5.

Polarized epithelia are fundamental to multicellular life. In animal epithelia,
conserved junctional complexes establish membrane diffusion barriers, cellular
adherence and sealing of the extracellular space. Plant cellular barriers are of 
independent evolutionary origin. The root endodermis strongly resembles a
polarized epithelium and functions in nutrient uptake and stress resistance. Its 
defining features are the Casparian strips, belts of specialized cell wall
material that generate an extracellular diffusion barrier. The mechanisms
localizing Casparian strips are unknown. Here we identify and characterize a
family of transmembrane proteins of previously unknown function. These 'CASPs'
(Casparian strip membrane domain proteins) specifically mark a membrane domain
that predicts the formation of Casparian strips. CASP1 displays numerous features
required for a constituent of a plant junctional complex: it forms complexes with
other CASPs; it becomes immobile upon localization; and it sediments like a large
polymer. CASP double mutants display disorganized Casparian strips, demonstrating
a role for CASPs in structuring and localizing this cell wall modification. To
our knowledge, CASPs are the first molecular factors that are shown to establish 
a plasma membrane and extracellular diffusion barrier in plants, and represent a 
novel way of epithelial barrier formation in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10070 
PMID: 21593871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):368-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09985.

Species-area relationships always overestimate extinction rates from habitat
loss.

He F(1), Hubbell SP.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biocontrol and School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou 510275, China. fhe@mail.sysu.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):288-9.
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):E4-5; author reply E5-6.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):284.
    Nature. 2011 Jun 16;474(7351):284.
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):E3-4; author reply E5-6.

Extinction from habitat loss is the signature conservation problem of the
twenty-first century. Despite its importance, estimating extinction rates is
still highly uncertain because no proven direct methods or reliable data exist
for verifying extinctions. The most widely used indirect method is to estimate
extinction rates by reversing the species-area accumulation curve, extrapolating 
backwards to smaller areas to calculate expected species loss. Estimates of
extinction rates based on this method are almost always much higher than those
actually observed. This discrepancy gave rise to the concept of an 'extinction
debt', referring to species 'committed to extinction' owing to habitat loss and
reduced population size but not yet extinct during a non-equilibrium period. Here
we show that the extinction debt as currently defined is largely a sampling
artefact due to an unrecognized difference between the underlying sampling
problems when constructing a species-area relationship (SAR) and when
extrapolating species extinction from habitat loss. The key mathematical result
is that the area required to remove the last individual of a species (extinction)
is larger, almost always much larger, than the sample area needed to encounter
the first individual of a species, irrespective of species distribution and
spatial scale. We illustrate these results with data from a global network of
large, mapped forest plots and ranges of passerine bird species in the
continental USA; and we show that overestimation can be greater than 160%.
Although we conclude that extinctions caused by habitat loss require greater loss
of habitat than previously thought, our results must not lead to complacency
about extinction due to habitat loss, which is a real and growing threat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09985 
PMID: 21593870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):364-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09919.

Eocene lizard from Germany reveals amphisbaenian origins.

Müller J(1), Hipsley CA, Head JJ, Kardjilov N, Hilger A, Wuttke M, Reisz RR.

Author information: 
(1)Museum für Naturkunde, Leibniz-Institut für Evolutions- und
Biodiversitätsforschung an der Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Invalidenstr. 43, 
10115 Berlin, Germany.

Amphisbaenia is a speciose clade of fossorial lizards characterized by a
snake-like body and a strongly reinforced skull adapted for head-first burrowing.
The evolutionary origins of amphisbaenians are controversial, with molecular data
uniting them with lacertids, a clade of Old World terrestrial lizards, whereas
morphology supports a grouping with snakes and other limbless squamates. Reports 
of fossil stem amphisbaenians have been falsified, and no fossils have previously
tested these competing phylogenetic hypotheses or shed light on ancestral
amphisbaenian ecology. Here we report the discovery of a new lacertid-like lizard
from the Eocene Messel locality of Germany that provides the first morphological 
evidence for lacertid-amphisbaenian monophyly on the basis of a reinforced,
akinetic skull roof and braincase, supporting the view that body elongation and
limblessness in amphisbaenians and snakes evolved independently. Morphometric
analysis of body shape and ecology in squamates indicates that the postcranial
anatomy of the new taxon is most consistent with opportunistically burrowing
habits, which in combination with cranial reinforcement indicates that head-first
burrowing evolved before body elongation and may have been a crucial first step
in the evolution of amphisbaenian fossoriality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09919 
PMID: 21593869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):361-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10068.

Melting of the Earth's inner core.

Gubbins D(1), Sreenivasan B, Mound J, Rost S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):292-3.

The Earth's magnetic field is generated by a dynamo in the liquid iron core,
which convects in response to cooling of the overlying rocky mantle. The core
freezes from the innermost surface outward, growing the solid inner core and
releasing light elements that drive compositional convection. Mantle convection
extracts heat from the core at a rate that has enormous lateral variations. Here 
we use geodynamo simulations to show that these variations are transferred to the
inner-core boundary and can be large enough to cause heat to flow into the inner 
core. If this were to occur in the Earth, it would cause localized melting.
Melting releases heavy liquid that could form the variable-composition layer
suggested by an anomaly in seismic velocity in the 150 kilometres immediately
above the inner-core boundary. This provides a very simple explanation of the
existence of this layer, which otherwise requires additional assumptions such as 
locking of the inner core to the mantle, translation from its geopotential centre
or convection with temperature equal to the solidus but with composition varying 
from the outer to the inner core. The predominantly narrow downwellings
associated with freezing and broad upwellings associated with melting mean that
the area of melting could be quite large despite the average dominance of
freezing necessary to keep the dynamo going. Localized melting and freezing also 
provides a strong mechanism for creating seismic anomalies in the inner core
itself, much stronger than the effects of variations in heat flow so far
considered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10068 
PMID: 21593868 


542. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):349-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10092.

Unbound or distant planetary mass population detected by gravitational
microlensing.

Microlensing Observations in Astrophysics (MOA) Collaboration; Optical
Gravitational Lensing Experiment (OGLE) Collaboration.

Collaborators: Sumi T, Kamiya K, Bennett D, Bond I, Abe F, Botzler C, Fukui A,
Furusawa K, Hearnshaw J, Itow Y, Kilmartin P, Korpela A, Lin W, Ling CH, Masuda
K, Matsubara Y, Miyake N, Motomura M, Muraki Y, Nagaya M, Nakamura S, Ohnishi K, 
Okumura T, Perrott Y, Rattenbury N, Saito T, Sako T, Sullivan D, Sweatman W,
Tristram P, Yock P, Udalski A, Szymański M, Kubiak M, Pietrzyński G, Poleski R,
Soszyński I, Wyrzykowski L, Ulaczyk K.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):289-91.

Since 1995, more than 500 exoplanets have been detected using different
techniques, of which 12 were detected with gravitational microlensing. Most of
these are gravitationally bound to their host stars. There is some evidence of
free-floating planetary-mass objects in young star-forming regions, but these
objects are limited to massive objects of 3 to 15 Jupiter masses with large
uncertainties in photometric mass estimates and their abundance. Here, we report 
the discovery of a population of unbound or distant Jupiter-mass objects, which
are almost twice (1.8(+1.7)(-0.8)) as common as main-sequence stars, based on two
years of gravitational microlensing survey observations towards the Galactic
Bulge. These planetary-mass objects have no host stars that can be detected
within about ten astronomical units by gravitational microlensing. However, a
comparison with constraints from direct imaging suggests that most of these
planetary-mass objects are not bound to any host star. An abrupt change in the
mass function at about one Jupiter mass favours the idea that their formation
process is different from that of stars and brown dwarfs. They may have formed in
proto-planetary disks and subsequently scattered into unbound or very distant
orbits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10092 
PMID: 21593867 


543. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):337-42. doi: 10.1038/nature10098.

Global quantification of mammalian gene expression control.

Schwanhäusser B(1), Busse D, Li N, Dittmar G, Schuchhardt J, Wolf J, Chen W,
Selbach M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Str. 10, D-13092
Berlin, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Mar 7;495(7439):126-7.

Comment in
    Mol Syst Biol. 2011 May 24;7:498.
    Nat Methods. 2011 Jul;8(7):536.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Aug;12(8):518.

Gene expression is a multistep process that involves the transcription,
translation and turnover of messenger RNAs and proteins. Although it is one of
the most fundamental processes of life, the entire cascade has never been
quantified on a genome-wide scale. Here we simultaneously measured absolute mRNA 
and protein abundance and turnover by parallel metabolic pulse labelling for more
than 5,000 genes in mammalian cells. Whereas mRNA and protein levels correlated
better than previously thought, corresponding half-lives showed no correlation.
Using a quantitative model we have obtained the first genome-scale prediction of 
synthesis rates of mRNAs and proteins. We find that the cellular abundance of
proteins is predominantly controlled at the level of translation. Genes with
similar combinations of mRNA and protein stability shared functional properties, 
indicating that half-lives evolved under energetic and dynamic constraints.
Quantitative information about all stages of gene expression provides a rich
resource and helps to provide a greater understanding of the underlying design
principles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10098 
PMID: 21593866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):326-35. doi: 10.1038/nature10147.

Heart regeneration.

Laflamme MA(1), Murry CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Center for Cardiovascular Biology, Institute for Stem
Cell and Regenerative Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98109, USA.

Heart failure plagues industrialized nations, killing more people than any other 
disease. It usually results from a deficiency of specialized cardiac muscle cells
known as cardiomyocytes, and a robust therapy to regenerate lost myocardium could
help millions of patients every year. Heart regeneration is well documented in
amphibia and fish and in developing mammals. After birth, however, human heart
regeneration becomes limited to very slow cardiomyocyte replacement. Several
experimental strategies to remuscularize the injured heart using adult stem cells
and pluripotent stem cells, cellular reprogramming and tissue engineering are in 
progress. Although many challenges remain, these interventions may eventually
lead to better approaches to treat or prevent heart failure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10147 
PMCID: PMC4091722
PMID: 21593865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):317-25. doi: 10.1038/nature10146.

Progress and challenges in translating the biology of atherosclerosis.

Libby P(1), Ridker PM, Hansson GK.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA. plibby@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

Atherosclerosis is a chronic disease of the arterial wall, and a leading cause of
death and loss of productive life years worldwide. Research into the disease has 
led to many compelling hypotheses about the pathophysiology of atherosclerotic
lesion formation and of complications such as myocardial infarction and stroke.
Yet, despite these advances, we still lack definitive evidence to show that
processes such as lipoprotein oxidation, inflammation and immunity have a crucial
involvement in human atherosclerosis. Experimental atherosclerosis in animals
furnishes an important research tool, but extrapolation to humans requires care. 
Understanding how to combine experimental and clinical science will provide
further insight into atherosclerosis and could lead to new clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10146 
PMID: 21593864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):308-16. doi: 10.1038/nature10145.

Lessons on the pathogenesis of aneurysm from heritable conditions.

Lindsay ME(1), Dietz HC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Department of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland 21205-1832, USA.

Aortic aneurysm is common, accounting for 1-2% of all deaths in industrialized
countries. Early theories of the causes of human aneurysm mostly focused on
inherited or acquired defects in components of the extracellular matrix in the
aorta. Although several mutations in the genes encoding extracellular matrix
proteins have been recognized, more recent discoveries have shown important
perturbations in cytokine signalling cascades and intracellular components of the
smooth muscle contractile apparatus. The modelling of single-gene heritable
aneurysm disorders in mice has shown unexpected involvement of the transforming
growth factor-β cytokine pathway in aortic aneurysm, highlighting the potential
for new therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10145 
PMCID: PMC3622871
PMID: 21593863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):298-307. doi: 10.1038/nature10144.

Molecular mechanisms and clinical applications of angiogenesis.

Carmeliet P(1), Jain RK.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Angiogenesis and Neurovascular Link, Vesalius Research Center,
VIB, Leuven B-3000, Belgium. peter.carmeliet@vib-kuleuven.be

Blood vessels deliver oxygen and nutrients to every part of the body, but also
nourish diseases such as cancer. Over the past decade, our understanding of the
molecular mechanisms of angiogenesis (blood vessel growth) has increased at an
explosive rate and has led to the approval of anti-angiogenic drugs for cancer
and eye diseases. So far, hundreds of thousands of patients have benefited from
blockers of the angiogenic protein vascular endothelial growth factor, but
limited efficacy and resistance remain outstanding problems. Recent preclinical
and clinical studies have shown new molecular targets and principles, which may
provide avenues for improving the therapeutic benefit from anti-angiogenic
strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10144 
PMCID: PMC4049445
PMID: 21593862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):394-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10102. Epub 2011 May 8.

Genome-wide mapping of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in embryonic stem cells.

Pastor WA(1), Pape UJ, Huang Y, Henderson HR, Lister R, Ko M, McLoughlin EM,
Brudno Y, Mahapatra S, Kapranov P, Tahiliani M, Daley GQ, Liu XS, Ecker JR, Milos
PM, Agarwal S, Rao A.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Immune Disease Institute and Program in Cellular and
Molecular Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):293-4.
    Nat Methods. 2011 Jul;8(7):532-3.

5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) is a modified base present at low levels in
diverse cell types in mammals. 5hmC is generated by the TET family of Fe(II) and 
2-oxoglutarate-dependent enzymes through oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5mC).
5hmC and TET proteins have been implicated in stem cell biology and cancer, but
information on the genome-wide distribution of 5hmC is limited. Here we describe 
two novel and specific approaches to profile the genomic localization of 5hmC.
The first approach, termed GLIB (glucosylation, periodate oxidation,
biotinylation) uses a combination of enzymatic and chemical steps to isolate DNA 
fragments containing as few as a single 5hmC. The second approach involves
conversion of 5hmC to cytosine 5-methylenesulphonate (CMS) by treatment of
genomic DNA with sodium bisulphite, followed by immunoprecipitation of
CMS-containing DNA with a specific antiserum to CMS. High-throughput sequencing
of 5hmC-containing DNA from mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells showed strong
enrichment within exons and near transcriptional start sites. 5hmC was especially
enriched at the start sites of genes whose promoters bear dual histone 3 lysine
27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) and histone 3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3)
marks. Our results indicate that 5hmC has a probable role in transcriptional
regulation, and suggest a model in which 5hmC contributes to the 'poised'
chromatin signature found at developmentally-regulated genes in ES cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10102 
PMCID: PMC3124347
PMID: 21552279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):353-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10079. Epub 2011 Apr 24.

Observation of the antimatter helium-4 nucleus.

STAR Collaboration.

Collaborators: Agakishiev H, Aggarwal MM, Ahammed Z, Alakhverdyants AV, Alekseev 
I, Alford J, Anderson BD, Anson CD, Arkhipkin D, Averichev GS, Balewski J, Beavis
D, Behera N, Bellwied R, Betancourt M, Betts R, Bhasin A, Bhati A, Bichsel H,
Bielcik J, Bielcikova J, Biritz B, Bland L, Bordyuzhin I, Borowski W, Bouchet J, 
Braidot E, Brandin A, Bridgeman A, Brovko S, Bruna E, Bueltmann S, Bunzarov I,
Burton T, Cai X, Caines H, Calderon M, Cebra D, Cendejas R, Cervantes M, Chajecki
Z, Chaloupka P, Chattopadhyay S, Chen H, Chen J, Chen J, Chen L, Cheng J, Cherney
M, Chikanian A, Choi K, Christie W, Chung P, Codrington M, Corliss R, Cramer J,
Crawford H, Davila Leyva A, De Silva L, Debbe R, Dedovich T, Derevschikov A,
Derradi de Souza R, Didenko L, Djawotho P, Dogra S, Dong X, Drachenberg J, Draper
J, Dunlop J, Efimov L, Elnimr M, Engelage J, Eppley G, Estienne M, Eun L,
Evdokimov O, Fatemi R, Fedorisin J, Fersch R, Filip P, Finch E, Fine V, Fisyak Y,
Gagliardi C, Gangadharan D, Geurts F, Ghosh P, Gorbunov Y, Gordon A, Grebenyuk O,
Grosnick D, Guertin S, Gupta A, Gupta S, Guryn W, Haag B, Hajkova O, Hamed A, Han
LX, Harris J, Hays-Wehle J, Heinz M, Heppelmann S, Hirsch A, Hjort E, Hoffmann G,
Hofman D, Huang B, Huang H, Humanic T, Huo L, Igo G, Jacobs P, Jacobs W, Jena C, 
Jin F, Joseph J, Judd E, Kabana S, Kang K, Kapitan J, Kauder K, Ke H, Keane D,
Kechechyan A, Kettler D, Kikola D, Kiryluk J, Kisiel A, Kizka V, Klein S, Knospe 
A, Koetke D, Kollegger T, Konzer J, Koralt I, Koroleva L, Korsch W, Kotchenda L, 
Kouchpil V, Kravtsov P, Krueger K, Krus M, Kumar L, Kurnadi P, Lamont M, Landgraf
J, LaPointe S, Lauret J, Lebedev A, Lednicky R, Lee J, Leight W, LeVine M, Li C, 
Li L, Li N, Li W, Li X, Li X, Li Y, Li Z, Lisa M, Liu F, Liu H, Liu J, Ljubicic
T, Llope W, Longacre R, Love W, Lu Y, Lukashov E, Luo X, Ma G, Ma Y, Mahapatra D,
Majka R, Mall O, Manweiler R, Margetis S, Markert C, Masui H, Matis H, Matulenko 
YA, McDonald D, McShane T, Meschanin A, Milner R, Minaev N, Mioduszewski S,
Mitrovski M, Mohammed Y, Mohanty B, Mondal M, Morozov B, Morozov D, Munhoz M,
Mustafa M, Naglis M, Nandi B, Nayak T, Netrakanti P, Nogach L, Nurushev S,
Odyniec G, Ogawa A, Oh K, Ohlson A, Okorokov V, Oldag E, Olson D, Pachr M, Page
B, Pal S, Pandit Y, Panebratsev Y, Pawlak T, Pei H, Peitzmann T, Perkins C, Peryt
W, Pile P, Planinic M, Ploskon M, Pluta J, Plyku D, Poljak N, Porter J, Poskanzer
A, Potukuchi B, Powell C, Prindle D, Pruneau C, Pruthi N, Pujahari P, Putschke J,
Qiu H, Raniwala R, Raniwala S, Ray R, Redwine R, Reed R, Ritter H, Roberts J,
Rogachevskiy O, Romero J, Ruan L, Rusnak J, Sahoo N, Sakrejda I, Salur S,
Sandweiss J, Sangaline E, Sarkar A, Schambach J, Scharenberg R, Schmah A, Schmitz
N, Schuster T, Seele J, Seger J, Selyuzhenkov I, Seyboth P, Shah N, Shahaliev E, 
Shao M, Sharma M, Shi S, Shou Q, Sichtermann E, Simon F, Singaraju R, Skoby M,
Smirnov N, Solanki D, Sorensen P, Spinka H, Srivastava B, Stanislaus T, Staszak
D, Steadman S, Stevens J, Stock R, Strikhanov M, Stringfellow B, Suaide A, Suarez
M, Subba N, Sumbera M, Sun X, Sun Y, Sun Z, Surrow B, Svirida D, Symons T, Szanto
de Toledo A, Takahashi J, Tang A, Tang Z, Tarini L, Tarnowsky T, Thein D, Thomas 
J, Tian J, Timmins A, Tlusty D, Tokarev M, Trainor T, Trentalange S, Tribble R,
Tribedy P, Tsai O, Ullrich T, Underwood D, Van Buren G, van Nieuwenhuizen G,
Vanfossen J Jr, Varma R, Vasconcelos G, Vasiliev A, Videbaek F, Viyogi Y, Vokal
S, Voloshin S, Wada M, Walker M, Wang F, Wang G, Wang H, Wang J, Wang Q, Wang X, 
Wang Y, Webb G, Webb J, Westfall G, Whitten C Jr, Wieman H, Wissink S, Witt R,
Witzke W, Wu Y, Xiao Z, Xie W, Xu H, Xu N, Xu Q, Xu W, Xu Y, Xu Z, Xue L, Yang Y,
Yang Y, Yepes P, Yip K, Yoo IK, Zawisza M, Zbroszczyk H, Zhan W, Zhang J, Zhang
S, Zhang W, Zhang X, Zhang Y, Zhang Z, Zhao F, Zhao J, Zhong C, Zhou W, Zhu X,
Zhu Y, Zoulkarneev R, Zoulkarneeva Y.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 21;475(7356):412.

High-energy nuclear collisions create an energy density similar to that of the
Universe microseconds after the Big Bang; in both cases, matter and antimatter
are formed with comparable abundance. However, the relatively short-lived
expansion in nuclear collisions allows antimatter to decouple quickly from
matter, and avoid annihilation. Thus, a high-energy accelerator of heavy nuclei
provides an efficient means of producing and studying antimatter. The antimatter 
helium-4 nucleus (4He), also known as the anti-α (α), consists of two antiprotons
and two antineutrons (baryon number B = -4). It has not been observed previously,
although the α-particle was identified a century ago by Rutherford and is present
in cosmic radiation at the ten per cent level. Antimatter nuclei with B < -1 have
been observed only as rare products of interactions at particle accelerators,
where the rate of antinucleus production in high-energy collisions decreases by a
factor of about 1,000 with each additional antinucleon. Here we report the
observation of 4He, the heaviest observed antinucleus to date. In total, 18 4He
counts were detected at the STAR experiment at the Relativistic Heavy Ion
Collider (RHIC; ref. 6) in 10(9) recorded gold-on-gold (Au+Au) collisions at
centre-of-mass energies of 200 GeV and 62 GeV per nucleon-nucleon pair. The yield
is consistent with expectations from thermodynamic and coalescent nucleosynthesis
models, providing an indication of the production rate of even heavier antimatter
nuclei and a benchmark for possible future observations of 4He in cosmic
radiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10079 
PMID: 21516103 


550. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):357-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10089. Epub 2011 Apr 20.

Sharply increased mass loss from glaciers and ice caps in the Canadian Arctic
Archipelago.

Gardner AS(1), Moholdt G, Wouters B, Wolken GJ, Burgess DO, Sharp MJ, Cogley JG, 
Braun C, Labine C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, T6G 2E3, Canada. alexsg@umich.edu

Mountain glaciers and ice caps are contributing significantly to present rates of
sea level rise and will continue to do so over the next century and beyond. The
Canadian Arctic Archipelago, located off the northwestern shore of Greenland,
contains one-third of the global volume of land ice outside the ice sheets, but
its contribution to sea-level change remains largely unknown. Here we show that
the Canadian Arctic Archipelago has recently lost 61 ± 7 gigatonnes per year
(Gt yr(-1)) of ice, contributing 0.17 ± 0.02 mm yr(-1) to sea-level rise. Our
estimates are of regional mass changes for the ice caps and glaciers of the
Canadian Arctic Archipelago referring to the years 2004 to 2009 and are based on 
three independent approaches: surface mass-budget modelling plus an estimate of
ice discharge (SMB+D), repeat satellite laser altimetry (ICESat) and repeat
satellite gravimetry (GRACE). All three approaches show consistent and large
mass-loss estimates. Between the periods 2004-2006 and 2007-2009, the rate of
mass loss sharply increased from 31 ± 8 Gt yr(-1) to 92 ± 12 Gt yr(-1) in direct 
response to warmer summer temperatures, to which rates of ice loss are highly
sensitive (64 ± 14 Gt yr(-1) per 1 K increase). The duration of the study is too 
short to establish a long-term trend, but for 2007-2009, the increase in the rate
of mass loss makes the Canadian Arctic Archipelago the single largest contributor
to eustatic sea-level rise outside Greenland and Antarctica.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10089 
PMID: 21508960 


551. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09938. Epub 2011 Apr 20.

Neuropsin cleaves EphB2 in the amygdala to control anxiety.

Attwood BK(1), Bourgognon JM, Patel S, Mucha M, Schiavon E, Skrzypiec AE, Young
KW, Shiosaka S, Korostynski M, Piechota M, Przewlocki R, Pawlak R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Leicester,
University Road, Leicester LE1 9HN, UK.

A minority of individuals experiencing traumatic events develop anxiety
disorders. The reason for the lack of correspondence between the prevalence of
exposure to psychological trauma and the development of anxiety is unknown.
Extracellular proteolysis contributes to fear-associated responses by
facilitating neuronal plasticity at the neuron-matrix interface. Here we show in 
mice that the serine protease neuropsin is critical for stress-related plasticity
in the amygdala by regulating the dynamics of the EphB2-NMDA-receptor
interaction, the expression of Fkbp5 and anxiety-like behaviour. Stress results
in neuropsin-dependent cleavage of EphB2 in the amygdala causing dissociation of 
EphB2 from the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor and promoting membrane turnover
of EphB2 receptors. Dynamic EphB2-NR1 interaction enhances NMDA receptor current,
induces Fkbp5 gene expression and enhances behavioural signatures of anxiety. On 
stress, neuropsin-deficient mice do not show EphB2 cleavage and its dissociation 
from NR1 resulting in a static EphB2-NR1 interaction, attenuated induction of the
Fkbp5 gene and low anxiety. The behavioural response to stress can be restored by
intra-amygdala injection of neuropsin into neuropsin-deficient mice and disrupted
by the injection of either anti-EphB2 antibodies or silencing the Fkbp5 gene in
the amygdala of wild-type mice. Our findings establish a novel neuronal pathway
linking stress-induced proteolysis of EphB2 in the amygdala to anxiety.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09938 
PMCID: PMC3145099
PMID: 21508957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09958. Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Stem-cell-triggered immunity through CLV3p-FLS2 signalling.

Lee H(1), Chah OK, Sheen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Center for Computational and Integrative
Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Stem cells in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) of plants are the self-renewable
reservoir for leaf, stem and flower organogenesis. In nature, disease-free plants
can be regenerated from SAM despite infections elsewhere, which underlies a
horticultural practice for decades. However, the molecular basis of the SAM
immunity remains unclear. Here we show that the CLAVATA3 peptide (CLV3p),
expressed and secreted from stem cells and functioning as a key regulator of
stem-cell homeostasis in the SAM of Arabidopsis, can trigger immune signalling
and pathogen resistance via the flagellin receptor kinase FLS2 (refs 5, 6).
CLV3p-FLS2 signalling acts independently from the stem-cell signalling pathway
mediated through CLV1 and CLV2 receptors, and is uncoupled from FLS2-mediated
growth suppression. Endogenous CLV3p perception in the SAM by a pattern
recognition receptor for bacterial flagellin, FLS2, breaks the previously defined
self and non-self discrimination in innate immunity. The dual perception of CLV3p
illustrates co-evolution of plant peptide and receptor kinase signalling for both
development and immunity. The enhanced immunity in SAM or germ lines may
represent a common strategy towards immortal fate in plants and animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09958 
PMCID: PMC3098311
PMID: 21499263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):343-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10066. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

TET1 and hydroxymethylcytosine in transcription and DNA methylation fidelity.

Williams K(1), Christensen J, Pedersen MT, Johansen JV, Cloos PA, Rappsilber J,
Helin K.

Author information: 
(1)Biotech Research and Innovation Centre, University of Copenhagen, Ole Maaløes 
Vej 5, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):293-4.

Enzymes catalysing the methylation of the 5-position of cytosine (mC) have
essential roles in regulating gene expression and maintaining cellular identity. 
Recently, TET1 was found to hydroxylate the methyl group of mC, converting it to 
5-hydroxymethyl cytosine (hmC). Here we show that TET1 binds throughout the
genome of embryonic stem cells, with the majority of binding sites located at
transcription start sites (TSSs) of CpG-rich promoters and within genes. The hmC 
modification is found in gene bodies and in contrast to mC is also enriched at
CpG-rich TSSs. We provide evidence further that TET1 has a role in
transcriptional repression. TET1 binds a significant proportion of Polycomb group
target genes. Furthermore, TET1 associates and colocalizes with the SIN3A
co-repressor complex. We propose that TET1 fine-tunes transcription, opposes
aberrant DNA methylation at CpG-rich sequences and thereby contributes to the
regulation of DNA methylation fidelity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10066 
PMCID: PMC3408592
PMID: 21490601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):398-402. doi: 10.1038/nature10008. Epub 2011 Apr 3.

Dynamic regulation of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in mouse ES cells and during
differentiation.

Ficz G(1), Branco MR, Seisenberger S, Santos F, Krueger F, Hore TA, Marques CJ,
Andrews S, Reik W.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Genetics and Imprinting, The Babraham Institute,
Cambridge CB22 3AT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):293-4.

Methylation at the 5' position of cytosine in DNA has important roles in genome
function and is dynamically reprogrammed during early embryonic and germ cell
development. The mammalian genome also contains 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC),
which seems to be generated by oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) by the TET
family of enzymes that are highly expressed in embryonic stem (ES) cells. Here we
use antibodies against 5hmC and 5mC together with high throughput sequencing to
determine genome-wide patterns of methylation and hydroxymethylation in mouse
wild-type and mutant ES cells and differentiating embryoid bodies. We find that
5hmC is mostly associated with euchromatin and that whereas 5mC is
under-represented at gene promoters and CpG islands, 5hmC is enriched and is
associated with increased transcriptional levels. Most, if not all, 5hmC in the
genome depends on pre-existing 5mC and the balance between these two
modifications is different between genomic regions. Knockdown of Tet1 and Tet2
causes downregulation of a group of genes that includes pluripotency-related
genes (including Esrrb, Prdm14, Dppa3, Klf2, Tcl1 and Zfp42) and a concomitant
increase in methylation of their promoters, together with an increased propensity
of ES cells for extraembryonic lineage differentiation. Declining levels of TETs 
during differentiation are associated with decreased hydroxymethylation levels at
the promoters of ES cell-specific genes together with increased methylation and
gene silencing. We propose that the balance between hydroxymethylation and
methylation in the genome is inextricably linked with the balance between
pluripotency and lineage commitment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10008 
PMID: 21460836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):389-93. doi: 10.1038/nature09934. Epub 2011 Mar 30.

Dual functions of Tet1 in transcriptional regulation in mouse embryonic stem
cells.

Wu H(1), D'Alessio AC, Ito S, Xia K, Wang Z, Cui K, Zhao K, Sun YE, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Medical Pharmacology, UCLA David Geffen School of
Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):293-4.

Epigenetic modification of the mammalian genome by DNA methylation
(5-methylcytosine) has a profound impact on chromatin structure, gene expression 
and maintenance of cellular identity. The recent demonstration that members of
the Ten-eleven translocation (Tet) family of proteins can convert
5-methylcytosine to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine raised the possibility that Tet
proteins are capable of establishing a distinct epigenetic state. We have
recently demonstrated that Tet1 is specifically expressed in murine embryonic
stem (ES) cells and is required for ES cell maintenance. Using chromatin
immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput DNA sequencing, here we show in 
mouse ES cells that Tet1 is preferentially bound to CpG-rich sequences at
promoters of both transcriptionally active and Polycomb-repressed genes. Despite 
an increase in levels of DNA methylation at many Tet1-binding sites, Tet1
depletion does not lead to downregulation of all the Tet1 targets. Interestingly,
although Tet1-mediated promoter hypomethylation is required for maintaining the
expression of a group of transcriptionally active genes, it is also involved in
repression of Polycomb-targeted developmental regulators. Tet1 contributes to
silencing of this group of genes by facilitating recruitment of PRC2 to CpG-rich 
gene promoters. Thus, our study not only establishes a role for Tet1 in
modulating DNA methylation levels at CpG-rich promoters, but also reveals a dual 
function of Tet1 in promoting transcription of pluripotency factors as well as
participating in the repression of Polycomb-targeted developmental regulators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09934 
PMCID: PMC3539771
PMID: 21451524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Nature. 2011 May 18;474(7352):521-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10136.

Agonist-bound adenosine A2A receptor structures reveal common features of GPCR
activation.

Lebon G(1), Warne T, Edwards PC, Bennett K, Langmead CJ, Leslie AG, Tate CG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Adenosine receptors and β-adrenoceptors are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs)
that activate intracellular G proteins on binding the agonists adenosine or
noradrenaline, respectively. GPCRs have similar structures consisting of seven
transmembrane helices that contain well-conserved sequence motifs, indicating
that they are probably activated by a common mechanism. Recent structures of
β-adrenoceptors highlight residues in transmembrane region 5 that initially bind 
specifically to agonists rather than to antagonists, indicating that these
residues have an important role in agonist-induced activation of receptors. Here 
we present two crystal structures of the thermostabilized human adenosine A(2A)
receptor (A(2A)R-GL31) bound to its endogenous agonist adenosine and the
synthetic agonist NECA. The structures represent an intermediate conformation
between the inactive and active states, because they share all the features of
GPCRs that are thought to be in a fully activated state, except that the
cytoplasmic end of transmembrane helix 6 partially occludes the G-protein-binding
site. The adenine substituent of the agonists binds in a similar fashion to the
chemically related region of the inverse agonist ZM241385 (ref. 8). Both agonists
contain a ribose group, not found in ZM241385, which extends deep into the
ligand-binding pocket where it makes polar interactions with conserved residues
in H7 (Ser 277(7.42) and His 278(7.43); superscripts refer to
Ballesteros-Weinstein numbering) and non-polar interactions with residues in H3. 
In contrast, the inverse agonist ZM241385 does not interact with any of these
residues and comparison with the agonist-bound structures indicates that ZM241385
sterically prevents the conformational change in H5 and therefore it acts as an
inverse agonist. Comparison of the agonist-bound structures of A(2A)R with the
agonist-bound structures of β-adrenoceptors indicates that the contraction of the
ligand-binding pocket caused by the inward motion of helices 3, 5 and 7 may be a 
common feature in the activation of all GPCRs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10136 
PMCID: PMC3146096
PMID: 21593763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Nature. 2011 May 18;474(7352):502-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09992.

Non-adaptive origins of interactome complexity.

Fernández A(1), Lynch M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA.

Expression of concern in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):440.

The boundaries between prokaryotes, unicellular eukaryotes and multicellular
eukaryotes are accompanied by orders-of-magnitude reductions in effective
population size, with concurrent amplifications of the effects of random genetic 
drift and mutation. The resultant decline in the efficiency of selection seems to
be sufficient to influence a wide range of attributes at the genomic level in a
non-adaptive manner. A key remaining question concerns the extent to which
variation in the power of random genetic drift is capable of influencing
phylogenetic diversity at the subcellular and cellular levels. Should this be the
case, population size would have to be considered as a potential determinant of
the mechanistic pathways underlying long-term phenotypic evolution. Here we
demonstrate a phylogenetically broad inverse relation between the power of drift 
and the structural integrity of protein subunits. This leads to the hypothesis
that the accumulation of mildly deleterious mutations in populations of small
size induces secondary selection for protein-protein interactions that stabilize 
key gene functions. By this means, the complex protein architectures and
interactions essential to the genesis of phenotypic diversity may initially
emerge by non-adaptive mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09992 
PMCID: PMC3121905
PMID: 21593762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Nature. 2011 May 15;474(7351):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09995.

Control of visual cortical signals by prefrontal dopamine.

Noudoost B(1), Moore T.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Neurobiology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Fairchild building, 299 Campus Drive West,
Stanford, California 94305, USA. behrad@stanford.edu

The prefrontal cortex is thought to modulate sensory signals in posterior
cortices during top-down attention, but little is known about the underlying
neural circuitry. Experimental and clinical evidence indicate that prefrontal
dopamine has an important role in cognitive functions, acting predominantly
through D1 receptors. Here we show that dopamine D1 receptors mediate prefrontal 
control of signals in the visual cortex of macaques (Macaca mulatta). We
pharmacologically altered D1-receptor-mediated activity in the frontal eye field 
of the prefrontal cortex and measured the effect on the responses of neurons in
area V4 of the visual cortex. This manipulation was sufficient to enhance the
magnitude, the orientation selectivity and the reliability of V4 visual responses
to an extent comparable with the known effects of top-down attention. The
enhancement of V4 signals was restricted to neurons with response fields
overlapping the part of visual space affected by the D1 receptor manipulation.
Altering either D1- or D2-receptor-mediated frontal eye field activity increased 
saccadic target selection but the D2 receptor manipulation did not enhance V4
signals. Our results identify a role for D1 receptors in mediating the control of
visual cortical signals by the prefrontal cortex and suggest how processing in
sensory areas could be altered in mental disorders involving prefrontal dopamine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09995 
PMCID: PMC3117113
PMID: 21572439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 2011 May 15;474(7351):390-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10006.

Reprogramming transcription by distinct classes of enhancers functionally defined
by eRNA.

Wang D(1), Garcia-Bassets I, Benner C, Li W, Su X, Zhou Y, Qiu J, Liu W,
Kaikkonen MU, Ohgi KA, Glass CK, Rosenfeld MG, Fu XD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, University 
of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0651,
USA.

Mammalian genomes are populated with thousands of transcriptional enhancers that 
orchestrate cell-type-specific gene expression programs, but how those enhancers 
are exploited to institute alternative, signal-dependent transcriptional
responses remains poorly understood. Here we present evidence that
cell-lineage-specific factors, such as FoxA1, can simultaneously facilitate and
restrict key regulated transcription factors, exemplified by the androgen
receptor (AR), to act on structurally and functionally distinct classes of
enhancer. Consequently, FoxA1 downregulation, an unfavourable prognostic sign in 
certain advanced prostate tumours, triggers dramatic reprogramming of the
hormonal response by causing a massive switch in AR binding to a distinct cohort 
of pre-established enhancers. These enhancers are functional, as evidenced by the
production of enhancer-templated non-coding RNA (eRNA) based on global nuclear
run-on sequencing (GRO-seq) analysis, with a unique class apparently requiring no
nucleosome remodelling to induce specific enhancer-promoter looping and gene
activation. GRO-seq data also suggest that liganded AR induces both transcription
initiation and elongation. Together, these findings reveal a large repository of 
active enhancers that can be dynamically tuned to elicit alternative gene
expression programs, which may underlie many sequential gene expression events in
development, cell differentiation and disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10006 
PMCID: PMC3117022
PMID: 21572438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2011 May 15;474(7351):403-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10005.

COP1 is a tumour suppressor that causes degradation of ETS transcription factors.

Vitari AC(1), Leong KG, Newton K, Yee C, O'Rourke K, Liu J, Phu L, Vij R,
Ferrando R, Couto SS, Mohan S, Pandita A, Hongo JA, Arnott D, Wertz IE, Gao WQ,
French DM, Dixit VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jul;11(7):466.

The proto-oncogenes ETV1, ETV4 and ETV5 encode transcription factors in the E26
transformation-specific (ETS) family, which includes the most frequently
rearranged and overexpressed genes in prostate cancer. Despite being critical
regulators of development, little is known about their post-translational
regulation. Here we identify the ubiquitin ligase COP1 (also known as RFWD2) as a
tumour suppressor that negatively regulates ETV1, ETV4 and ETV5. ETV1, which is
mutated in prostate cancer more often, was degraded after being ubiquitinated by 
COP1. Truncated ETV1 encoded by prostate cancer translocation TMPRSS2:ETV1 lacks 
the critical COP1 binding motifs and was 50-fold more stable than wild-type ETV1.
Almost all patient translocations render ETV1 insensitive to COP1, implying that 
this confers a selective advantage to prostate epithelial cells. Indeed, COP1
deficiency in mouse prostate elevated ETV1 and produced increased cell
proliferation, hyperplasia, and early prostate intraepithelial neoplasia.
Combined loss of COP1 and PTEN enhanced the invasiveness of mouse prostate
adenocarcinomas. Finally, rare human prostate cancer samples showed hemizygous
loss of the COP1 gene, loss of COP1 protein, and elevated ETV1 protein while
lacking a translocation event. These findings identify COP1 as a tumour
suppressor whose downregulation promotes prostatic epithelial cell proliferation 
and tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10005 
PMID: 21572435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2011 May 13;474(7350):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10135.

Immunogenicity of induced pluripotent stem cells.

Zhao T(1), Zhang ZN, Rong Z, Xu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Biology, Division of Biological Sciences, University of
California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0322, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):165-6.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), reprogrammed from somatic cells with
defined factors, hold great promise for regenerative medicine as the renewable
source of autologous cells. Whereas it has been generally assumed that these
autologous cells should be immune-tolerated by the recipient from whom the iPSCs 
are derived, their immunogenicity has not been vigorously examined. We show here 
that, whereas embryonic stem cells (ESCs) derived from inbred C57BL/6 (B6) mice
can efficiently form teratomas in B6 mice without any evident immune rejection,
the allogeneic ESCs from 129/SvJ mice fail to form teratomas in B6 mice due to
rapid rejection by recipients. B6 mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) were
reprogrammed into iPSCs by either retroviral approach (ViPSCs) or a novel
episomal approach (EiPSCs) that causes no genomic integration. In contrast to B6 
ESCs, teratomas formed by B6 ViPSCs were mostly immune-rejected by B6 recipients.
In addition, the majority of teratomas formed by B6 EiPSCs were immunogenic in B6
mice with T cell infiltration, and apparent tissue damage and regression were
observed in a small fraction of teratomas. Global gene expression analysis of
teratomas formed by B6 ESCs and EiPSCs revealed a number of genes frequently
overexpressed in teratomas derived from EiPSCs, and several such gene products
were shown to contribute directly to the immunogenicity of the B6 EiPSC-derived
cells in B6 mice. These findings indicate that, in contrast to derivatives of
ESCs, abnormal gene expression in some cells differentiated from iPSCs can induce
T-cell-dependent immune response in syngeneic recipients. Therefore, the
immunogenicity of therapeutically valuable cells derived from patient-specific
iPSCs should be evaluated before any clinic application of these autologous cells
into the patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10135 
PMID: 21572395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):239-42. doi: 10.1038/nature10014.

Preserving the membrane barrier for small molecules during bacterial protein
translocation.

Park E(1), Rapoport TA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cell Biology, Harvard
Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Many proteins are translocated through the SecY channel in bacteria and archaea
and through the related Sec61 channel in eukaryotes. The channel has an hourglass
shape with a narrow constriction approximately halfway across the membrane,
formed by a pore ring of amino acids. While the cytoplasmic cavity of the channel
is empty, the extracellular cavity is filled with a short helix called the plug, 
which moves out of the way during protein translocation. The mechanism by which
the channel transports large polypeptides and yet prevents the passage of small
molecules, such as ions or metabolites, has been controversial. Here, we have
addressed this issue in intact Escherichia coli cells by testing the permeation
of small molecules through wild-type and mutant SecY channels, which are either
in the resting state or contain a defined translocating polypeptide chain. We
show that in the resting state, the channel is sealed by both the pore ring and
the plug domain. During translocation, the pore ring forms a 'gasket-like' seal
around the polypeptide chain, preventing the permeation of small molecules. The
structural conservation of the channel in all organisms indicates that this may
be a universal mechanism by which the membrane barrier is maintained during
protein translocation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10014 
PMCID: PMC3093665
PMID: 21562565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):230-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09999.

A novel tumour-suppressor function for the Notch pathway in myeloid leukaemia.

Klinakis A(1), Lobry C, Abdel-Wahab O, Oh P, Haeno H, Buonamici S, van De Walle
I, Cathelin S, Trimarchi T, Araldi E, Liu C, Ibrahim S, Beran M, Zavadil J,
Efstratiadis A, Taghon T, Michor F, Levine RL, Aifantis I.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Research Foundation, Academy of Athens, Athens, Greece.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Jun 3;8(6):602-3.
    Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):159-60.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jun;11(6):385.

Notch signalling is a central regulator of differentiation in a variety of
organisms and tissue types. Its activity is controlled by the multi-subunit
γ-secretase (γSE) complex. Although Notch signalling can play both oncogenic and 
tumour-suppressor roles in solid tumours, in the haematopoietic system it is
exclusively oncogenic, notably in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, a disease
characterized by Notch1-activating mutations. Here we identify novel
somatic-inactivating Notch pathway mutations in a fraction of patients with
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML). Inactivation of Notch signalling in
mouse haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) results in an aberrant accumulation of
granulocyte/monocyte progenitors (GMPs), extramedullary haematopoieisis and the
induction of CMML-like disease. Transcriptome analysis revealed that Notch
signalling regulates an extensive myelomonocytic-specific gene signature, through
the direct suppression of gene transcription by the Notch target Hes1. Our
studies identify a novel role for Notch signalling during early haematopoietic
stem cell differentiation and suggest that the Notch pathway can play both
tumour-promoting and -suppressive roles within the same tissue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09999 
PMCID: PMC3093658
PMID: 21562564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):226-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10007.

N-acylethanolamine signalling mediates the effect of diet on lifespan in
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Lucanic M(1), Held JM, Vantipalli MC, Klang IM, Graham JB, Gibson BW, Lithgow GJ,
Gill MS.

Author information: 
(1)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato,
California 94945, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):161-3.

Dietary restriction is a robust means of extending adult lifespan and postponing 
age-related disease in many species, including yeast, nematode worms, flies and
rodents. Studies of the genetic requirements for lifespan extension by dietary
restriction in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans have implicated a number of
key molecules in this process, including the nutrient-sensing target of rapamycin
(TOR) pathway and the Foxa transcription factor PHA-4 (ref. 7). However, little
is known about the metabolic signals that coordinate the organismal response to
dietary restriction and maintain homeostasis when nutrients are limited. The
endocannabinoid system is an excellent candidate for such a role given its
involvement in regulating nutrient intake and energy balance. Despite this, a
direct role for endocannabinoid signalling in dietary restriction or lifespan
determination has yet to be demonstrated, in part due to the apparent absence of 
endocannabinoid signalling pathways in model organisms that are amenable to
lifespan analysis. N-acylethanolamines (NAEs) are lipid-derived signalling
molecules, which include the mammalian endocannabinoid arachidonoyl ethanolamide.
Here we identify NAEs in C. elegans, show that NAE abundance is reduced under
dietary restriction and that NAE deficiency is sufficient to extend lifespan
through a dietary restriction mechanism requiring PHA-4. Conversely, dietary
supplementation with the nematode NAE eicosapentaenoyl ethanolamide not only
inhibits dietary-restriction-induced lifespan extension in wild-type worms, but
also suppresses lifespan extension in a TOR pathway mutant. This demonstrates a
role for NAE signalling in ageing and indicates that NAEs represent a signal that
coordinates nutrient status with metabolic changes that ultimately determine
lifespan.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10007 
PMCID: PMC3093655
PMID: 21562563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):216-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10069.

Metabolite-enabled eradication of bacterial persisters by aminoglycosides.

Allison KR(1), Brynildsen MP, Collins JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Center 
for Biodynamics and Center for Advanced Biotechnology, Boston University, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Jul;9(7):482-3.

Bacterial persistence is a state in which a sub-population of dormant cells, or
'persisters', tolerates antibiotic treatment. Bacterial persisters have been
implicated in biofilms and in chronic and recurrent infections. Despite this
clinical relevance, there are currently no viable means for eradicating
persisters. Here we show that specific metabolic stimuli enable the killing of
both Gram-negative (Escherichia coli) and Gram-positive (Staphylococcus aureus)
persisters with aminoglycosides. This potentiation is aminoglycoside-specific, it
does not rely on growth resumption and it is effective in both aerobic and
anaerobic conditions. It proceeds by the generation of a proton-motive force
which facilitates aminoglycoside uptake. Our results demonstrate that persisters,
although dormant, are primed for metabolite uptake, central metabolism and
respiration. We show that aminoglycosides can be used in combination with
specific metabolites to treat E. coli and S. aureus biofilms. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that this approach can improve the treatment of chronic infections in
a mouse urinary tract infection model. This work establishes a strategy for
eradicating bacterial persisters that is based on metabolism, and highlights the 
importance of the metabolic environment to antibiotic treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10069 
PMCID: PMC3145328
PMID: 21562562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):208-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10078.

Novel pathway for assimilation of dimethylsulphoniopropionate widespread in
marine bacteria.

Reisch CR(1), Stoudemayer MJ, Varaljay VA, Amster IJ, Moran MA, Whitman WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602, USA.

Dimethylsulphoniopropionate (DMSP) accounts for up to 10% of carbon fixed by
marine phytoplankton in ocean surface waters, producing an estimated
11.7-103 Tmol S per year, most of which is processed by marine bacteria through
the demethylation/demethiolation pathway. This pathway releases methanethiol
(MeSH) instead of the climatically active gas dimethylsulphide (DMS) and enables 
marine microorganisms to assimilate the reduced sulphur. Despite recognition of
this critical microbial transformation for over two decades, the biochemical
pathway and enzymes responsible have remained unidentified. Here we show that
three new enzymes related to fatty acid β-oxidation constitute the pathway that
assimilates methylmercaptopropionate (MMPA), the first product of DMSP
demethylation/demethiolation, and that two previously unknown coenzyme A (CoA)
derivatives, 3-methylmercaptopropionyl-CoA (MMPA-CoA) and methylthioacryloyl-CoA 
(MTA-CoA), are formed as novel intermediates. A member of the marine
roseobacters, Ruegeria pomeroyi DSS-3, requires the MMPA-CoA pathway for MMPA
assimilation and MeSH production. This pathway and the ability to produce MeSH
from MMPA are present in diverse bacteria, and the ubiquitous SAR11 clade
bacterium Pelagibacter ubique possesses enzymes for at least the first two steps.
Analysis of marine metagenomic data indicates that the pathway is widespread
among bacterioplankton in the ocean surface waters, making it one of the most
important known routes for acquisition of reduced carbon and sulphur by surface
ocean heterotrophs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10078 
PMID: 21562561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):203-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10074.

Evolution and metabolic significance of the urea cycle in photosynthetic diatoms.

Allen AE(1), Dupont CL, Oborník M, Horák A, Nunes-Nesi A, McCrow JP, Zheng H,
Johnson DA, Hu H, Fernie AR, Bowler C.

Author information: 
(1)J. Craig Venter Institute, San Diego, California 92121, USA. aallen@jcvi.org

Diatoms dominate the biomass of phytoplankton in nutrient-rich conditions and
form the basis of some of the world's most productive marine food webs. The
diatom nuclear genome contains genes with bacterial and plastid origins as well
as genes of the secondary endosymbiotic host (the exosymbiont), yet little is
known about the relative contribution of each gene group to diatom metabolism.
Here we show that the exosymbiont-derived ornithine-urea cycle, which is similar 
to that of metazoans but is absent in green algae and plants, facilitates rapid
recovery from prolonged nitrogen limitation. RNA-interference-mediated knockdown 
of a mitochondrial carbamoyl phosphate synthase impairs the response of
nitrogen-limited diatoms to nitrogen addition. Metabolomic analyses indicate that
intermediates in the ornithine-urea cycle are particularly depleted and that both
the tricarboxylic acid cycle and the glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase
cycles are linked directly with the ornithine-urea cycle. Several other depleted 
metabolites are generated from ornithine-urea cycle intermediates by the products
of genes laterally acquired from bacteria. This metabolic coupling of bacterial- 
and exosymbiont-derived proteins seems to be fundamental to diatom physiology
because the compounds affected include the major diatom osmolyte proline and the 
precursors for long-chain polyamines required for silica precipitation during
cell wall formation. So far, the ornithine-urea cycle is only known for its
essential role in the removal of fixed nitrogen in metazoans. In diatoms, this
cycle serves as a distribution and repackaging hub for inorganic carbon and
nitrogen and contributes significantly to the metabolic response of diatoms to
episodic nitrogen availability. The diatom ornithine-urea cycle therefore
represents a key pathway for anaplerotic carbon fixation into nitrogenous
compounds that are essential for diatom growth and for the contribution of
diatoms to marine productivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10074 
PMID: 21562560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):194-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10012.

Quantum annealing with manufactured spins.

Johnson MW(1), Amin MH, Gildert S, Lanting T, Hamze F, Dickson N, Harris R,
Berkley AJ, Johansson J, Bunyk P, Chapple EM, Enderud C, Hilton JP, Karimi K,
Ladizinsky E, Ladizinsky N, Oh T, Perminov I, Rich C, Thom MC, Tolkacheva E,
Truncik CJ, Uchaikin S, Wang J, Wilson B, Rose G.

Author information: 
(1)D-Wave Systems Inc., 100-4401 Still Creek Drive, Burnaby, British Columbia V5C
6G9, Canada. mwjohnson@dwavesys.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):164-5.

Many interesting but practically intractable problems can be reduced to that of
finding the ground state of a system of interacting spins; however, finding such 
a ground state remains computationally difficult. It is believed that the ground 
state of some naturally occurring spin systems can be effectively attained
through a process called quantum annealing. If it could be harnessed, quantum
annealing might improve on known methods for solving certain types of problem.
However, physical investigation of quantum annealing has been largely confined to
microscopic spins in condensed-matter systems. Here we use quantum annealing to
find the ground state of an artificial Ising spin system comprising an array of
eight superconducting flux quantum bits with programmable spin-spin couplings. We
observe a clear signature of quantum annealing, distinguishable from classical
thermal annealing through the temperature dependence of the time at which the
system dynamics freezes. Our implementation can be configured in situ to realize 
a wide variety of different spin networks, each of which can be monitored as it
moves towards a low-energy configuration. This programmable artificial spin
network bridges the gap between the theoretical study of ideal isolated spin
networks and the experimental investigation of bulk magnetic samples. Moreover,
with an increased number of spins, such a system may provide a practical physical
means to implement a quantum algorithm, possibly allowing more-effective
approaches to solving certain classes of hard combinatorial optimization
problems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10012 
PMID: 21562559 


569. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):187-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10076.

Hot Jupiters from secular planet-planet interactions.

Naoz S(1), Farr WM, Lithwick Y, Rasio FA, Teyssandier J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Exploration and Research in Astrophysics,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA. snaoz@northwestern.edu

About 25 per cent of 'hot Jupiters' (extrasolar Jovian-mass planets with close-in
orbits) are actually orbiting counter to the spin direction of the star.
Perturbations from a distant binary star companion can produce high inclinations,
but cannot explain orbits that are retrograde with respect to the total angular
momentum of the system. Such orbits in a stellar context can be produced through 
secular (that is, long term) perturbations in hierarchical triple-star systems.
Here we report a similar analysis of planetary bodies, including both
octupole-order effects and tidal friction, and find that we can produce hot
Jupiters in orbits that are retrograde with respect to the total angular
momentum. With distant stellar mass perturbers, such an outcome is not possible. 
With planetary perturbers, the inner orbit's angular momentum component parallel 
to the total angular momentum need not be constant. In fact, as we show here, it 
can even change sign, leading to a retrograde orbit. A brief excursion to very
high eccentricity during the chaotic evolution of the inner orbit allows
planet-star tidal interactions to rapidly circularize that orbit, decoupling the 
planets and forming a retrograde hot Jupiter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10076 
PMID: 21562558 


570. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):167-73. doi: 10.1038/nature10011.

Controllability of complex networks.

Liu YY(1), Slotine JJ, Barabási AL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Complex Network Research, Department of Physics, Northeastern
University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):158-9.
    Nature. 2011 Oct 20;478(7369):E4; discussion E4-5.

The ultimate proof of our understanding of natural or technological systems is
reflected in our ability to control them. Although control theory offers
mathematical tools for steering engineered and natural systems towards a desired 
state, a framework to control complex self-organized systems is lacking. Here we 
develop analytical tools to study the controllability of an arbitrary complex
directed network, identifying the set of driver nodes with time-dependent control
that can guide the system's entire dynamics. We apply these tools to several real
networks, finding that the number of driver nodes is determined mainly by the
network's degree distribution. We show that sparse inhomogeneous networks, which 
emerge in many real complex systems, are the most difficult to control, but that 
dense and homogeneous networks can be controlled using a few driver nodes.
Counterintuitively, we find that in both model and real systems the driver nodes 
tend to avoid the high-degree nodes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10011 
PMID: 21562557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):190-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09997. Epub 2011 May 1.

A single-atom quantum memory.

Specht HP(1), Nölleke C, Reiserer A, Uphoff M, Figueroa E, Ritter S, Rempe G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, 85748
Garching, Germany.

The faithful storage of a quantum bit (qubit) of light is essential for
long-distance quantum communication, quantum networking and distributed quantum
computing. The required optical quantum memory must be able to receive and
recreate the photonic qubit; additionally, it must store an unknown quantum state
of light better than any classical device. So far, these two requirements have
been met only by ensembles of material particles that store the information in
collective excitations. Recent developments, however, have paved the way for an
approach in which the information exchange occurs between single quanta of light 
and matter. This single-particle approach allows the material qubit to be
addressed, which has fundamental advantages for realistic implementations. First,
it enables a heralding mechanism that signals the successful storage of a photon 
by means of state detection; this can be used to combat inevitable losses and
finite efficiencies. Second, it allows for individual qubit manipulations,
opening up avenues for in situ processing of the stored quantum information. Here
we demonstrate the most fundamental implementation of such a quantum memory, by
mapping arbitrary polarization states of light into and out of a single atom
trapped inside an optical cavity. The memory performance is tested with weak
coherent pulses and analysed using full quantum process tomography. The average
fidelity is measured to be 93%, and low decoherence rates result in qubit
coherence times exceeding 180  microseconds. This makes our system a versatile
quantum node with excellent prospects for applications in optical quantum gates
and quantum repeaters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09997 
PMID: 21532588 


572. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):181-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09969. Epub 2011 May 1.

Sequential interactions with Sec23 control the direction of vesicle traffic.

Lord C(1), Bhandari D, Menon S, Ghassemian M, Nycz D, Hay J, Ghosh P,
Ferro-Novick S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0668, USA.

How the directionality of vesicle traffic is achieved remains an important
unanswered question in cell biology. The Sec23p/Sec24p coat complex sorts the
fusion machinery (SNAREs) into vesicles as they bud from the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER). Vesicle tethering to the Golgi begins when the tethering factor
TRAPPI binds to Sec23p. Where the coat is released and how this event relates to 
membrane fusion is unknown. Here we use a yeast transport assay to demonstrate
that an ER-derived vesicle retains its coat until it reaches the Golgi. A
Golgi-associated kinase, Hrr25p (CK1δ orthologue), then phosphorylates the
Sec23p/Sec24p complex. Coat phosphorylation and dephosphorylation are needed for 
vesicle fusion and budding, respectively. Additionally, we show that Sec23p
interacts in a sequential manner with different binding partners, including
TRAPPI and Hrr25p, to ensure the directionality of ER-Golgi traffic and prevent
the back-fusion of a COPII vesicle with the ER. These events are conserved in
mammalian cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09969 
PMCID: PMC3093450
PMID: 21532587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):199-202. doi: 10.1038/nature09940. Epub 2011 Apr
24.

Spin crossover and iron-rich silicate melt in the Earth's deep mantle.

Nomura R(1), Ozawa H, Tateno S, Hirose K, Hernlund J, Muto S, Ishii H, Hiraoka N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Meguro, Tokyo 152-8551, Japan.

A melt has greater volume than a silicate solid of the same composition. But this
difference diminishes at high pressure, and the possibility that a melt
sufficiently enriched in the heavy element iron might then become more dense than
solids at the pressures in the interior of the Earth (and other terrestrial
bodies) has long been a source of considerable speculation. The occurrence of
such dense silicate melts in the Earth's lowermost mantle would carry important
consequences for its physical and chemical evolution and could provide a unifying
model for explaining a variety of observed features in the core-mantle boundary
region. Recent theoretical calculations combined with estimates of iron
partitioning between (Mg,Fe)SiO(3) perovskite and melt at shallower mantle
conditions suggest that melt is more dense than solids at pressures in the
Earth's deepest mantle, consistent with analysis of shockwave experiments. Here
we extend measurements of iron partitioning over the entire mantle pressure
range, and find a precipitous change at pressures greater than ∼76 GPa, resulting
in strong iron enrichment in melts. Additional X-ray emission spectroscopy
measurements on (Mg(0.95)Fe(0.05))SiO(3) glass indicate a spin collapse around
70 GPa, suggesting that the observed change in iron partitioning could be
explained by a spin crossover of iron (from high-spin to low-spin) in silicate
melt. These results imply that (Mg,Fe)SiO(3) liquid becomes more dense than
coexisting solid at ∼1,800 km depth in the lower mantle. Soon after the Earth's
formation, the heat dissipated by accretion and internal differentiation could
have produced a dense melt layer up to ∼1,000 km in thickness underneath the
solid mantle. We also infer that (Mg,Fe)SiO(3) perovskite is on the liquidus at
deep mantle conditions, and predict that fractional crystallization of dense
magma would have evolved towards an iron-rich and silicon-poor composition,
consistent with seismic inferences of structures in the core-mantle boundary
region.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09940 
PMID: 21516105 


574. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):174-80. doi: 10.1038/nature09944. Epub 2011 Apr 20.

Enterotypes of the human gut microbiome.

Arumugam M(1), Raes J, Pelletier E, Le Paslier D, Yamada T, Mende DR, Fernandes
GR, Tap J, Bruls T, Batto JM, Bertalan M, Borruel N, Casellas F, Fernandez L,
Gautier L, Hansen T, Hattori M, Hayashi T, Kleerebezem M, Kurokawa K, Leclerc M, 
Levenez F, Manichanh C, Nielsen HB, Nielsen T, Pons N, Poulain J, Qin J,
Sicheritz-Ponten T, Tims S, Torrents D, Ugarte E, Zoetendal EG, Wang J, Guarner
F, Pedersen O, de Vos WM, Brunak S, Doré J; MetaHIT Consortium, Antolín M,
Artiguenave F, Blottiere HM, Almeida M, Brechot C, Cara C, Chervaux C, Cultrone
A, Delorme C, Denariaz G, Dervyn R, Foerstner KU, Friss C, van de Guchte M,
Guedon E, Haimet F, Huber W, van Hylckama-Vlieg J, Jamet A, Juste C, Kaci G, Knol
J, Lakhdari O, Layec S, Le Roux K, Maguin E, Mérieux A, Melo Minardi R, M'rini C,
Muller J, Oozeer R, Parkhill J, Renault P, Rescigno M, Sanchez N, Sunagawa S,
Torrejon A, Turner K, Vandemeulebrouck G, Varela E, Winogradsky Y, Zeller G,
Weissenbach J, Ehrlich SD, Bork P.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):666.
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):516.

Our knowledge of species and functional composition of the human gut microbiome
is rapidly increasing, but it is still based on very few cohorts and little is
known about variation across the world. By combining 22 newly sequenced faecal
metagenomes of individuals from four countries with previously published data
sets, here we identify three robust clusters (referred to as enterotypes
hereafter) that are not nation or continent specific. We also confirmed the
enterotypes in two published, larger cohorts, indicating that intestinal
microbiota variation is generally stratified, not continuous. This indicates
further the existence of a limited number of well-balanced host-microbial
symbiotic states that might respond differently to diet and drug intake. The
enterotypes are mostly driven by species composition, but abundant molecular
functions are not necessarily provided by abundant species, highlighting the
importance of a functional analysis to understand microbial communities. Although
individual host properties such as body mass index, age, or gender cannot explain
the observed enterotypes, data-driven marker genes or functional modules can be
identified for each of these host properties. For example, twelve genes
significantly correlate with age and three functional modules with the body mass 
index, hinting at a diagnostic potential of microbial markers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09944 
PMCID: PMC3728647
PMID: 21508958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09937. Epub 2011 Apr 20.

A synthetic homing endonuclease-based gene drive system in the human malaria
mosquito.

Windbichler N(1), Menichelli M, Papathanos PA, Thyme SB, Li H, Ulge UY, Hovde BT,
Baker D, Monnat RJ Jr, Burt A, Crisanti A.

Author information: 
(1)Imperial College London, Department of Life Sciences, South Kensington Campus,
London, SW7 2AZ, UK.

Genetic methods of manipulating or eradicating disease vector populations have
long been discussed as an attractive alternative to existing control measures
because of their potential advantages in terms of effectiveness and species
specificity. The development of genetically engineered malaria-resistant
mosquitoes has shown, as a proof of principle, the possibility of targeting the
mosquito's ability to serve as a disease vector. The translation of these
achievements into control measures requires an effective technology to spread a
genetic modification from laboratory mosquitoes to field populations. We have
suggested previously that homing endonuclease genes (HEGs), a class of simple
selfish genetic elements, could be exploited for this purpose. Here we
demonstrate that a synthetic genetic element, consisting of mosquito regulatory
regions and the homing endonuclease gene I-SceI, can substantially increase its
transmission to the progeny in transgenic mosquitoes of the human malaria vector 
Anopheles gambiae. We show that the I-SceI element is able to invade receptive
mosquito cage populations rapidly, validating mathematical models for the
transmission dynamics of HEGs. Molecular analyses confirm that expression of
I-SceI in the male germline induces high rates of site-specific chromosomal
cleavage and gene conversion, which results in the gain of the I-SceI gene, and
underlies the observed genetic drive. These findings demonstrate a new mechanism 
by which genetic control measures can be implemented. Our results also show in
principle how sequence-specific genetic drive elements like HEGs could be used to
take the step from the genetic engineering of individuals to the genetic
engineering of populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09937 
PMCID: PMC3093433
PMID: 21508956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):234-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09917. Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Acetylation-dependent regulation of endothelial Notch signalling by the SIRT1
deacetylase.

Guarani V(1), Deflorian G, Franco CA, Krüger M, Phng LK, Bentley K, Toussaint L, 
Dequiedt F, Mostoslavsky R, Schmidt MHH, Zimmermann B, Brandes RP, Mione M,
Westphal CH, Braun T, Zeiher AM, Gerhardt H, Dimmeler S, Potente M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cardiovascular Regeneration, Centre of Molecular Medicine,
Goethe University, D-60590 Frankfurt, Germany.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2011 May 17;20(5):577-8.

Notch signalling is a key intercellular communication mechanism that is essential
for cell specification and tissue patterning, and which coordinates critical
steps of blood vessel growth. Although subtle alterations in Notch activity
suffice to elicit profound differences in endothelial behaviour and blood vessel 
formation, little is known about the regulation and adaptation of endothelial
Notch responses. Here we report that the NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase SIRT1 acts 
as an intrinsic negative modulator of Notch signalling in endothelial cells. We
show that acetylation of the Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD) on conserved
lysines controls the amplitude and duration of Notch responses by altering NICD
protein turnover. SIRT1 associates with NICD and functions as a NICD deacetylase,
which opposes the acetylation-induced NICD stabilization. Consequently,
endothelial cells lacking SIRT1 activity are sensitized to Notch signalling,
resulting in impaired growth, sprout elongation and enhanced Notch target gene
expression in response to DLL4 stimulation, thereby promoting a non-sprouting,
stalk-cell-like phenotype. In vivo, inactivation of Sirt1 in zebrafish and mice
causes reduced vascular branching and density as a consequence of enhanced Notch 
signalling. Our findings identify reversible acetylation of the NICD as a
molecular mechanism to adapt the dynamics of Notch signalling, and indicate that 
SIRT1 acts as rheostat to fine-tune endothelial Notch responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09917 
PMCID: PMC4598045
PMID: 21499261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2011 May 12;473(7346):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09915. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Modelling schizophrenia using human induced pluripotent stem cells.

Brennand KJ(1), Simone A, Jou J, Gelboin-Burkhart C, Tran N, Sangar S, Li Y, Mu
Y, Chen G, Yu D, McCarthy S, Sebat J, Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, Laboratory of Genetics, 10010 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla California 92037, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Nov 24;479(7374):556.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 May 6;8(5):461-2.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jun;12(6):308-9.

Schizophrenia (SCZD) is a debilitating neurological disorder with a world-wide
prevalence of 1%; there is a strong genetic component, with an estimated
heritability of 80-85%. Although post-mortem studies have revealed reduced brain 
volume, cell size, spine density and abnormal neural distribution in the
prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of SCZD brain tissue and neuropharmacological
studies have implicated dopaminergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic activity in
SCZD, the cell types affected in SCZD and the molecular mechanisms underlying the
disease state remain unclear. To elucidate the cellular and molecular defects of 
SCZD, we directly reprogrammed fibroblasts from SCZD patients into human induced 
pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and subsequently differentiated these
disorder-specific hiPSCs into neurons (Supplementary Fig. 1). SCZD hiPSC neurons 
showed diminished neuronal connectivity in conjunction with decreased neurite
number, PSD95-protein levels and glutamate receptor expression. Gene expression
profiles of SCZD hiPSC neurons identified altered expression of many components
of the cyclic AMP and WNT signalling pathways. Key cellular and molecular
elements of the SCZD phenotype were ameliorated following treatment of SCZD hiPSC
neurons with the antipsychotic loxapine. To date, hiPSC neuronal pathology has
only been demonstrated in diseases characterized by both the loss of function of 
a single gene product and rapid disease progression in early childhood. We now
report hiPSC neuronal phenotypes and gene expression changes associated with
SCZD, a complex genetic psychiatric disorder.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09915 
PMCID: PMC3392969
PMID: 21490598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2011 May 11;474(7350):235-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09980.

Structure and function of a membrane component SecDF that enhances protein
export.

Tsukazaki T(1), Mori H, Echizen Y, Ishitani R, Fukai S, Tanaka T, Perederina A,
Vassylyev DG, Kohno T, Maturana AD, Ito K, Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Protein translocation across the bacterial membrane, mediated by the secretory
translocon SecYEG and the SecA ATPase, is enhanced by proton motive force and
membrane-integrated SecDF, which associates with SecYEG. The role of SecDF has
remained unclear, although it is proposed to function in later stages of
translocation as well as in membrane protein biogenesis. Here, we determined the 
crystal structure of Thermus thermophilus SecDF at 3.3 Å resolution, revealing a 
pseudo-symmetrical, 12-helix transmembrane domain belonging to the RND
superfamily and two major periplasmic domains, P1 and P4. Higher-resolution
analysis of the periplasmic domains suggested that P1, which binds an unfolded
protein, undergoes functionally important conformational changes. In vitro
analyses identified an ATP-independent step of protein translocation that
requires both SecDF and proton motive force. Electrophysiological analyses
revealed that SecDF conducts protons in a manner dependent on pH and the presence
of an unfolded protein, with conserved Asp and Arg residues at the transmembrane 
interface between SecD and SecF playing essential roles in the movements of
protons and preproteins. Therefore, we propose that SecDF functions as a
membrane-integrated chaperone, powered by proton motive force, to achieve
ATP-independent protein translocation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09980 
PMCID: PMC3697915
PMID: 21562494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 2011 May 11;475(7356):386-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10116.

Induction of functional hepatocyte-like cells from mouse fibroblasts by defined
factors.

Huang P(1), He Z, Ji S, Sun H, Xiang D, Liu C, Hu Y, Wang X, Hui L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Cell Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell
Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy for
Sciences, Yueyang Road 320, 200031 Shanghai, China.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Aug 5;9(2):89-91.
    Hepatology. 2012 Jan;55(1):316-8.

The generation of functional hepatocytes independent of donor liver organs is of 
great therapeutic interest with regard to regenerative medicine and possible
cures for liver disease. Induced hepatic differentiation has been achieved
previously using embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells.
Particularly, hepatocytes generated from a patient's own induced pluripotent stem
cells could theoretically avoid immunological rejection. However, the induction
of hepatocytes from induced pluripotent stem cells is a complicated process that 
would probably be replaced with the arrival of improved technology.
Overexpression of lineage-specific transcription factors directly converts
terminally differentiated cells into some other lineages, including neurons,
cardiomyocytes and blood progenitors; however, it remains unclear whether these
lineage-converted cells could repair damaged tissues in vivo. Here we demonstrate
the direct induction of functional hepatocyte-like (iHep) cells from mouse
tail-tip fibroblasts by transduction of Gata4, Hnf1α and Foxa3, and inactivation 
of p19(Arf). iHep cells show typical epithelial morphology, express hepatic genes
and acquire hepatocyte functions. Notably, transplanted iHep cells repopulate the
livers of fumarylacetoacetate-hydrolase-deficient (Fah(-/-)) mice and rescue
almost half of recipients from death by restoring liver functions. Our study
provides a novel strategy to generate functional hepatocyte-like cells for the
purpose of liver engineering and regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10116 
PMID: 21562492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2011 May 11;474(7350):200-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09984.

Discovery of novel intermediate forms redefines the fungal tree of life.

Jones MD(1), Forn I, Gadelha C, Egan MJ, Bass D, Massana R, Richards TA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Exeter, Exeter EX4 4QD, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 21;494(7437):314.

Fungi are the principal degraders of biomass in terrestrial ecosystems and
establish important interactions with plants and animals. However, our current
understanding of fungal evolutionary diversity is incomplete and is based upon
species amenable to growth in culture. These culturable fungi are typically yeast
or filamentous forms, bound by a rigid cell wall rich in chitin. Evolution of
this body plan was thought critical for the success of the Fungi, enabling them
to adapt to heterogeneous habitats and live by osmotrophy: extracellular
digestion followed by nutrient uptake. Here we investigate the ecology and cell
biology of a previously undescribed and highly diverse form of eukaryotic life
that branches with the Fungi, using environmental DNA analyses combined with
fluorescent detection via DNA probes. This clade is present in numerous
ecosystems including soil, freshwater and aquatic sediments. Phylogenetic
analyses using multiple ribosomal RNA genes place this clade with Rozella, the
putative primary branch of the fungal kingdom. Tyramide signal amplification
coupled with group-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization reveals that the
target cells are small eukaryotes of 3-5 μm in length, capable of forming a
microtubule-based flagellum. Co-staining with cell wall markers demonstrates that
representatives from the clade do not produce a chitin-rich cell wall during any 
of the life cycle stages observed and therefore do not conform to the standard
fungal body plan. We name this highly diverse clade the cryptomycota in
anticipation of formal classification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09984 
PMID: 21562490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):109-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09981.

Enzyme-catalysed [4+2] cycloaddition is a key step in the biosynthesis of
spinosyn A.

Kim HJ(1), Ruszczycky MW, Choi SH, Liu YN, Liu HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Texas at Austin,
Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):35-6.

The Diels-Alder reaction is a [4+2] cycloaddition reaction in which a cyclohexene
ring is formed between a 1,3-diene and an electron-deficient alkene via a single 
pericyclic transition state. This reaction has been proposed as a key
transformation in the biosynthesis of many cyclohexene-containing secondary
metabolites. However, only four purified enzymes have thus far been implicated in
biotransformations that are consistent with a Diels-Alder reaction, namely
solanapyrone synthase, LovB, macrophomate synthase, and riboflavin synthase.
Although the stereochemical outcomes of these reactions indicate that the product
formation could be enzyme-guided in each case, these enzymes typically
demonstrate more than one catalytic activity, leaving their specific influence on
the cycloaddition step uncertain. In our studies of the biosynthesis of spinosyn 
A, a tetracyclic polyketide-derived insecticide from Saccharopolyspora spinosa,
we identified a cyclase, SpnF, that catalyses a transannular [4+2] cycloaddition 
to form the cyclohexene ring in spinosyn A. Kinetic analysis demonstrates that
SpnF specifically accelerates the ring formation reaction with an estimated
500-fold rate enhancement. A second enzyme, SpnL, was also identified as
responsible for the final cross-bridging step that completes the tetracyclic core
of spinosyn A in a manner consistent with a Rauhut-Currier reaction. This work is
significant because SpnF represents the first example characterized in vitro of a
stand-alone enzyme solely committed to the catalysis of a [4+2] cycloaddition
reaction. In addition, the mode of formation of the complex perhydro-as-indacene 
moiety in spinosyn A is now fully established.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09981 
PMCID: PMC3092164
PMID: 21544146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09977.

Body plan innovation in treehoppers through the evolution of an extra wing-like
appendage.

Prud'homme B(1), Minervino C, Hocine M, Cande JD, Aouane A, Dufour HD, Kassner
VA, Gompel N.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Biologie du Développement de Marseille-Luminy, CNRS UMR 6216, case
907, Parc scientifique de Luminy, 13288 Marseille cedex 9, France.
benjamin.prudhomme@univmed.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):34-5.

Body plans, which characterize the anatomical organization of animal groups of
high taxonomic rank, often evolve by the reduction or loss of appendages (limbs
in vertebrates and legs and wings in insects, for example). In contrast, the
addition of new features is extremely rare and is thought to be heavily
constrained, although the nature of the constraints remains elusive. Here we show
that the treehopper (Membracidae) 'helmet' is actually an appendage, a wing
serial homologue on the first thoracic segment. This innovation in the insect
body plan is an unprecedented situation in 250 Myr of insect evolution. We
provide evidence suggesting that the helmet arose by escaping the ancestral
repression of wing formation imparted by a member of the Hox gene family, which
sculpts the number and pattern of appendages along the body axis. Moreover, we
propose that the exceptional morphological diversification of the helmet was
possible because, in contrast to the wings, it escaped the stringent functional
requirements imposed by flight. This example illustrates how complex
morphological structures can arise by the expression of ancestral developmental
potentials and fuel the morphological diversification of an evolutionary lineage.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09977 
PMID: 21544145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):74-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09988.

Depth-dependent extension, two-stage breakup and cratonic underplating at rifted 
margins.

Huismans R(1), Beaumont C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science, Bergen University, Bergen, N-5007, Norway.
ritske.huismans@geo.uib.no

Uniform lithospheric extension predicts basic properties of non-volcanic rifted
margins but fails to explain other important characteristics. Significant
discrepancies are observed at 'type I' margins (such as the Iberia-Newfoundland
conjugates), where large tracts of continental mantle lithosphere are exposed at 
the sea floor, and 'type II' margins (such as some ultrawide central South
Atlantic margins), where thin continental crust spans wide regions below which
continental lower crust and mantle lithosphere have apparently been removed.
Neither corresponds to uniform extension. Instead, either crust or mantle
lithosphere has been preferentially removed. Using dynamical models, we
demonstrate that these margins are opposite end members: in type I,
depth-dependent extension results in crustal-necking breakup before
mantle-lithosphere breakup and in type II, the converse is true. These two-layer,
two-stage breakup behaviours explain the discrepancies and have implications for 
the styles of the associated sedimentary basins. Laterally flowing lower-mantle
cratonic lithosphere may underplate some type II margins, thereby contributing to
their anomalous characteristics.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09988 
PMID: 21544144 


584. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):66-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09996.

Convergence of electronic bands for high performance bulk thermoelectrics.

Pei Y(1), Shi X, LaLonde A, Wang H, Chen L, Snyder GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Materials Science, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California
91125, USA.

Thermoelectric generators, which directly convert heat into electricity, have
long been relegated to use in space-based or other niche applications, but are
now being actively considered for a variety of practical waste heat recovery
systems-such as the conversion of car exhaust heat into electricity. Although
these devices can be very reliable and compact, the thermoelectric materials
themselves are relatively inefficient: to facilitate widespread application, it
will be desirable to identify or develop materials that have an intensive
thermoelectric materials figure of merit, zT, above 1.5 (ref. 1). Many different 
concepts have been used in the search for new materials with high thermoelectric 
efficiency, such as the use of nanostructuring to reduce phonon thermal
conductivity, which has led to the investigation of a variety of complex material
systems. In this vein, it is well known that a high valley degeneracy (typically 
≤6 for known thermoelectrics) in the electronic bands is conducive to high zT,
and this in turn has stimulated attempts to engineer such degeneracy by adopting 
low-dimensional nanostructures. Here we demonstrate that it is possible to direct
the convergence of many valleys in a bulk material by tuning the doping and
composition. By this route, we achieve a convergence of at least 12 valleys in
doped PbTe(1-x)Se(x) alloys, leading to an extraordinary zT value of 1.8 at about
850 kelvin. Band engineering to converge the valence (or conduction) bands to
achieve high valley degeneracy should be a general strategy in the search for and
improvement of bulk thermoelectric materials, because it simultaneously leads to 
a high Seebeck coefficient and high electrical conductivity.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09996 
PMID: 21544143 


585. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):61-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10010.

Single-ion quantum lock-in amplifier.

Kotler S(1), Akerman N, Glickman Y, Keselman A, Ozeri R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science, PO
Box 26, Rehovot 76100, Israel. shlomi.kotler@weizmann.ac.il

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):39-40.

Quantum metrology uses tools from quantum information science to improve
measurement signal-to-noise ratios. The challenge is to increase sensitivity
while reducing susceptibility to noise, tasks that are often in conflict. Lock-in
measurement is a detection scheme designed to overcome this difficulty by
spectrally separating signal from noise. Here we report on the implementation of 
a quantum analogue to the classical lock-in amplifier. All the lock-in
operations--modulation, detection and mixing--are performed through the
application of non-commuting quantum operators to the electronic spin state of a 
single, trapped Sr(+) ion. We significantly increase its sensitivity to external 
fields while extending phase coherence by three orders of magnitude, to more than
one second. Using this technique, we measure frequency shifts with a sensitivity 
of 0.42 Hz Hz(-1/2) (corresponding to a magnetic field measurement sensitivity of
15 pT Hz(-1/2)), obtaining an uncertainty of less than 10 mHz (350 fT) after
3,720 seconds of averaging. These sensitivities are limited by quantum projection
noise and improve on other single-spin probe technologies by two orders of
magnitude. Our reported sensitivity is sufficient for the measurement of parity
non-conservation, as well as the detection of the magnetic field of a single
electronic spin one micrometre from an ion detector with nanometre resolution. As
a first application, we perform light shift spectroscopy of a narrow optical
quadrupole transition. Finally, we emphasize that the quantum lock-in technique
is generic and can potentially enhance the sensitivity of any quantum sensor.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10010 
PMID: 21544142 


586. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):70-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09911. Epub 2011 Apr 20.

The Soret effect and isotopic fractionation in high-temperature silicate melts.

Dominguez G(1), Wilkins G, Thiemens MH.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
California 92093, USA. gdominguez@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):E1; discussion E1-2.

Diffusion in condensed phases is a ubiquitous but poorly understood phenomenon.
For example, chemical diffusion, which is the transport of matter associated with
chemical concentration gradients (Fick's law), is treated as a separate process
from thermal transport (the Soret effect), which is mass transport induced by
temperature gradients. In the past few years, large variations in the proportions
of isotopes of Mg, Ca, Fe, Si and O found in silicate melts subject to thermal
gradients have been found, but no physical mechanism has been proposed. Here we
present a model of diffusion in natural condensed systems that explains both the 
chemical and isotopic fractionation of Mg, Ca and Fe in high-temperature
geochemical melts. Despite the high temperatures associated with these melts
(T>1,000 °C), we find that consideration of the quantum-mechanical zero-point
energy of diffusing species is essential for understanding diffusion at the
isotopic level. Our model explains thermal and chemical mass transport as
manifestations of the same underlying diffusion mechanism. This work promises to 
provide insights into mass-transport phenomena (diffusion and evaporation) and
associated isotopic fractionations in a wide range of natural condensed systems, 
including the atmospheric water cycle, geological and geochemical systems and the
early Solar System. This work might also be relevant to studies of mass transport
in biological and nanotechnological condensed systems.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09911 
PMID: 21508959 


587. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):55-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09913. Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Crystal structure of oxygen-evolving photosystem II at a resolution of 1.9 Å.

Umena Y(1), Kawakami K, Shen JR, Kamiya N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Osaka City University,
3-3-138 Sugimoto, Sumiyoshi, Osaka 558-8585, Japan.

Photosystem II is the site of photosynthetic water oxidation and contains 20
subunits with a total molecular mass of 350 kDa. The structure of photosystem II 
has been reported at resolutions from 3.8 to 2.9 Å. These resolutions have
provided much information on the arrangement of protein subunits and cofactors
but are insufficient to reveal the detailed structure of the catalytic centre of 
water splitting. Here we report the crystal structure of photosystem II at a
resolution of 1.9 Å. From our electron density map, we located all of the metal
atoms of the Mn(4)CaO(5) cluster, together with all of their ligands. We found
that five oxygen atoms served as oxo bridges linking the five metal atoms, and
that four water molecules were bound to the Mn(4)CaO(5) cluster; some of them may
therefore serve as substrates for dioxygen formation. We identified more than
1,300 water molecules in each photosystem II monomer. Some of them formed
extensive hydrogen-bonding networks that may serve as channels for protons, water
or oxygen molecules. The determination of the high-resolution structure of
photosystem II will allow us to analyse and understand its functions in great
detail.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09913 
PMID: 21499260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09923. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Evolved structure of language shows lineage-specific trends in word-order
universals.

Dunn M(1), Greenhill SJ, Levinson SC, Gray RD.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Post Office Box 310, 6500 AH
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. michael.dunn@mpi.nl

Languages vary widely but not without limit. The central goal of linguistics is
to describe the diversity of human languages and explain the constraints on that 
diversity. Generative linguists following Chomsky have claimed that linguistic
diversity must be constrained by innate parameters that are set as a child learns
a language. In contrast, other linguists following Greenberg have claimed that
there are statistical tendencies for co-occurrence of traits reflecting universal
systems biases, rather than absolute constraints or parametric variation. Here we
use computational phylogenetic methods to address the nature of constraints on
linguistic diversity in an evolutionary framework. First, contrary to the
generative account of parameter setting, we show that the evolution of only a few
word-order features of languages are strongly correlated. Second, contrary to the
Greenbergian generalizations, we show that most observed functional dependencies 
between traits are lineage-specific rather than universal tendencies. These
findings support the view that-at least with respect to word order-cultural
evolution is the primary factor that determines linguistic structure, with the
current state of a linguistic system shaping and constraining future states.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09923 
PMID: 21490599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):97-100. doi: 10.1038/nature09916. Epub 2011 Apr 10.

Ancestral polyploidy in seed plants and angiosperms.

Jiao Y(1), Wickett NJ, Ayyampalayam S, Chanderbali AS, Landherr L, Ralph PE,
Tomsho LP, Hu Y, Liang H, Soltis PS, Soltis DE, Clifton SW, Schlarbaum SE,
Schuster SC, Ma H, Leebens-Mack J, dePamphilis CW.

Author information: 
(1)Intercollege Graduate Degree Program in Plant Biology, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2011;12(5):113.

Whole-genome duplication (WGD), or polyploidy, followed by gene loss and
diploidization has long been recognized as an important evolutionary force in
animals, fungi and other organisms, especially plants. The success of angiosperms
has been attributed, in part, to innovations associated with gene or whole-genome
duplications, but evidence for proposed ancient genome duplications pre-dating
the divergence of monocots and eudicots remains equivocal in analyses of
conserved gene order. Here we use comprehensive phylogenomic analyses of
sequenced plant genomes and more than 12.6 million new expressed-sequence-tag
sequences from phylogenetically pivotal lineages to elucidate two groups of
ancient gene duplications-one in the common ancestor of extant seed plants and
the other in the common ancestor of extant angiosperms. Gene duplication events
were intensely concentrated around 319 and 192 million years ago, implicating two
WGDs in ancestral lineages shortly before the diversification of extant seed
plants and extant angiosperms, respectively. Significantly, these ancestral WGDs 
resulted in the diversification of regulatory genes important to seed and flower 
development, suggesting that they were involved in major innovations that
ultimately contributed to the rise and eventual dominance of seed plants and
angiosperms.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09916 
PMID: 21478875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature09880. Epub 2011 Apr 10.

Functional specificity of local synaptic connections in neocortical networks.

Ko H(1), Hofer SB, Pichler B, Buchanan KA, Sjöström PJ, Mrsic-Flogel TD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College
London, 21 University Street, London WC1E 6DE, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jun;12(6):306.

Neuronal connectivity is fundamental to information processing in the brain.
Therefore, understanding the mechanisms of sensory processing requires uncovering
how connection patterns between neurons relate to their function. On a coarse
scale, long-range projections can preferentially link cortical regions with
similar responses to sensory stimuli. But on the local scale, where dendrites and
axons overlap substantially, the functional specificity of connections remains
unknown. Here we determine synaptic connectivity between nearby layer 2/3
pyramidal neurons in vitro, the response properties of which were first
characterized in mouse visual cortex in vivo. We found that connection
probability was related to the similarity of visually driven neuronal activity.
Neurons with the same preference for oriented stimuli connected at twice the rate
of neurons with orthogonal orientation preferences. Neurons responding similarly 
to naturalistic stimuli formed connections at much higher rates than those with
uncorrelated responses. Bidirectional synaptic connections were found more
frequently between neuronal pairs with strongly correlated visual responses. Our 
results reveal the degree of functional specificity of local synaptic connections
in the visual cortex, and point to the existence of fine-scale subnetworks
dedicated to processing related sensory information.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09880 
PMCID: PMC3089591
PMID: 21478872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09908. Epub 2011 Apr 10.

CPEB and two poly(A) polymerases control miR-122 stability and p53 mRNA
translation.

Burns DM(1), D'Ambrogio A, Nottrott S, Richter JD.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Molecular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Cytoplasmic polyadenylation-induced translation controls germ cell development,
neuronal synaptic plasticity and cellular senescence, a tumour-suppressor
mechanism that limits the replicative lifespan of cells. The cytoplasmic
polyadenylation element binding protein (CPEB) promotes polyadenylation by
nucleating a group of factors including defective in germline development 2
(Gld2), a non-canonical poly(A) polymerase, on specific messenger RNA (mRNA) 3'
untranslated regions (UTRs). Because CPEB regulation of p53 mRNA
polyadenylation/translation is necessary for cellular senescence in primary human
diploid fibroblasts, we surmised that Gld2 would be the enzyme responsible for
poly(A) addition. Here we show that depletion of Gld2 surprisingly promotes
rather than inhibits p53 mRNA polyadenylation/translation, induces premature
senescence and enhances the stability of CPEB mRNA. The CPEB 3' UTR contains two 
miR-122 binding sites, which when deleted, elevate mRNA translation, as does an
antagomir of miR-122. Although miR-122 is thought to be liver specific, it is
present in primary fibroblasts and destabilized by Gld2 depletion. Gld4, a second
non-canonical poly(A) polymerase, was found to regulate p53 mRNA
polyadenylation/translation in a CPEB-dependent manner. Thus, translational
regulation of p53 mRNA and cellular senescence is coordinated by
Gld2/miR-122/CPEB/Gld4.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09908 
PMCID: PMC3088779
PMID: 21478871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):92-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09859. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

DISC1-dependent switch from progenitor proliferation to migration in the
developing cortex.

Ishizuka K(1), Kamiya A, Oh EC, Kanki H, Seshadri S, Robinson JF, Murdoch H,
Dunlop AJ, Kubo K, Furukori K, Huang B, Zeledon M, Hayashi-Takagi A, Okano H,
Nakajima K, Houslay MD, Katsanis N, Sawa A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA.

Regulatory mechanisms governing the sequence from progenitor cell proliferation
to neuronal migration during corticogenesis are poorly understood. Here we report
that phosphorylation of DISC1, a major susceptibility factor for several mental
disorders, acts as a molecular switch from maintaining proliferation of mitotic
progenitor cells to activating migration of postmitotic neurons in mice.
Unphosphorylated DISC1 regulates canonical Wnt signalling via an interaction with
GSK3β, whereas specific phosphorylation at serine 710 (S710) triggers the
recruitment of Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) proteins to the centrosome. In support
of this model, loss of BBS1 leads to defects in migration, but not proliferation,
whereas DISC1 knockdown leads to deficits in both. A phospho-dead mutant can only
rescue proliferation, whereas a phospho-mimic mutant rescues exclusively
migration defects. These data highlight a dual role for DISC1 in corticogenesis
and indicate that phosphorylation of this protein at S710 activates a key
developmental switch.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09859 
PMCID: PMC3088774
PMID: 21471969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):50-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09939. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

Crystal structure of a phosphorylation-coupled saccharide transporter.

Cao Y(1), Jin X, Levin EJ, Huang H, Zong Y, Quick M, Weng J, Pan Y, Love J, Punta
M, Rost B, Hendrickson WA, Javitch JA, Rajashankar KR, Zhou M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, New York 10032,
USA.

Saccharides have a central role in the nutrition of all living organisms. Whereas
several saccharide uptake systems are shared between the different phylogenetic
kingdoms, the phosphoenolpyruvate-dependent phosphotransferase system exists
almost exclusively in bacteria. This multi-component system includes an integral 
membrane protein EIIC that transports saccharides and assists in their
phosphorylation. Here we present the crystal structure of an EIIC from Bacillus
cereus that transports diacetylchitobiose. The EIIC is a homodimer, with an
expansive interface formed between the amino-terminal halves of the two
protomers. The carboxy-terminal half of each protomer has a large binding pocket 
that contains a diacetylchitobiose, which is occluded from both sides of the
membrane with its site of phosphorylation near the conserved His250 and Glu334
residues. The structure shows the architecture of this important class of
transporters, identifies the determinants of substrate binding and
phosphorylation, and provides a framework for understanding the mechanism of
sugar translocation.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09939 
PMCID: PMC3201810
PMID: 21471968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09881. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

Suppression of lung adenocarcinoma progression by Nkx2-1.

Winslow MM(1), Dayton TL, Verhaak RG, Kim-Kiselak C, Snyder EL, Feldser DM,
Hubbard DD, DuPage MJ, Whittaker CA, Hoersch S, Yoon S, Crowley D, Bronson RT,
Chiang DY, Meyerson M, Jacks T.

Author information: 
(1)David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Jun;11(6):390.

Despite the high prevalence and poor outcome of patients with metastatic lung
cancer the mechanisms of tumour progression and metastasis remain largely
uncharacterized. Here we modelled human lung adenocarcinoma, which frequently
harbours activating point mutations in KRAS and inactivation of the p53 pathway, 
using conditional alleles in mice. Lentiviral-mediated somatic activation of
oncogenic Kras and deletion of p53 in the lung epithelial cells of
Kras(LSL-G12D/+);p53(flox/flox) mice initiates lung adenocarcinoma development.
Although tumours are initiated synchronously by defined genetic alterations, only
a subset becomes malignant, indicating that disease progression requires
additional alterations. Identification of the lentiviral integration sites
allowed us to distinguish metastatic from non-metastatic tumours and determine
the gene expression alterations that distinguish these tumour types.
Cross-species analysis identified the NK2-related homeobox transcription factor
Nkx2-1 (also called Ttf-1 or Titf1) as a candidate suppressor of malignant
progression. In this mouse model, Nkx2-1 negativity is pathognomonic of
high-grade poorly differentiated tumours. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments 
in cells derived from metastatic and non-metastatic tumours demonstrated that
Nkx2-1 controls tumour differentiation and limits metastatic potential in vivo.
Interrogation of Nkx2-1-regulated genes, analysis of tumours at defined
developmental stages, and functional complementation experiments indicate that
Nkx2-1 constrains tumours in part by repressing the embryonically restricted
chromatin regulator Hmga2. Whereas focal amplification of NKX2-1 in a fraction of
human lung adenocarcinomas has focused attention on its oncogenic function, our
data specifically link Nkx2-1 downregulation to loss of differentiation, enhanced
tumour seeding ability and increased metastatic proclivity. Thus, the oncogenic
and suppressive functions of Nkx2-1 in the same tumour type substantiate its role
as a dual function lineage factor.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09881 
PMCID: PMC3088778
PMID: 21471965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 2011 May 5;473(7345):43-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09906. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Mapping and analysis of chromatin state dynamics in nine human cell types.

Ernst J(1), Kheradpour P, Mikkelsen TS, Shoresh N, Ward LD, Epstein CB, Zhang X, 
Wang L, Issner R, Coyne M, Ku M, Durham T, Kellis M, Bernstein BE.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 May;8(5):373.

Chromatin profiling has emerged as a powerful means of genome annotation and
detection of regulatory activity. The approach is especially well suited to the
characterization of non-coding portions of the genome, which critically
contribute to cellular phenotypes yet remain largely uncharted. Here we map nine 
chromatin marks across nine cell types to systematically characterize regulatory 
elements, their cell-type specificities and their functional interactions.
Focusing on cell-type-specific patterns of promoters and enhancers, we define
multicell activity profiles for chromatin state, gene expression, regulatory
motif enrichment and regulator expression. We use correlations between these
profiles to link enhancers to putative target genes, and predict the
cell-type-specific activators and repressors that modulate them. The resulting
annotations and regulatory predictions have implications for the interpretation
of genome-wide association studies. Top-scoring disease single nucleotide
polymorphisms are frequently positioned within enhancer elements specifically
active in relevant cell types, and in some cases affect a motif instance for a
predicted regulator, thus suggesting a mechanism for the association. Our study
presents a general framework for deciphering cis-regulatory connections and their
roles in disease.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09906 
PMCID: PMC3088773
PMID: 21441907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):476-80. doi: 10.1038/nature09973.

TLR signalling augments macrophage bactericidal activity through mitochondrial
ROS.

West AP(1), Brodsky IE, Rahner C, Woo DK, Erdjument-Bromage H, Tempst P, Walsh
MC, Choi Y, Shadel GS, Ghosh S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are essential components of the innate immune
response against intracellular bacteria and it is thought that professional
phagocytes generate ROS primarily via the phagosomal NADPH oxidase machinery.
However, recent studies have suggested that mitochondrial ROS (mROS) also
contribute to mouse macrophage bactericidal activity, although the mechanisms
linking innate immune signalling to mitochondria for mROS generation remain
unclear. Here we demonstrate that engagement of a subset of Toll-like receptors
(TLR1, TLR2 and TLR4) results in the recruitment of mitochondria to macrophage
phagosomes and augments mROS production. This response involves translocation of 
a TLR signalling adaptor, tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6
(TRAF6), to mitochondria, where it engages the protein ECSIT (evolutionarily
conserved signalling intermediate in Toll pathways), which is implicated in
mitochondrial respiratory chain assembly. Interaction with TRAF6 leads to ECSIT
ubiquitination and enrichment at the mitochondrial periphery, resulting in
increased mitochondrial and cellular ROS generation. ECSIT- and TRAF6-depleted
macrophages have decreased levels of TLR-induced ROS and are significantly
impaired in their ability to kill intracellular bacteria. Additionally, reducing 
macrophage mROS levels by expressing catalase in mitochondria results in
defective bacterial killing, confirming the role of mROS in bactericidal
activity. These results reveal a novel pathway linking innate immune signalling
to mitochondria, implicate mROS as an important component of antibacterial
responses and further establish mitochondria as hubs for innate immune
signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09973 
PMCID: PMC3460538
PMID: 21525932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):471-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10071.

Activation of the innate immune receptor Dectin-1 upon formation of a 'phagocytic
synapse'.

Goodridge HS(1), Reyes CN, Becker CA, Katsumoto TR, Ma J, Wolf AJ, Bose N, Chan
AS, Magee AS, Danielson ME, Weiss A, Vasilakos JP, Underhill DM.

Author information: 
(1)IBD and Immunobiology Research Institute, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California 90048, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Jun;11(6):371.

Innate immune cells must be able to distinguish between direct binding to
microbes and detection of components shed from the surface of microbes located at
a distance. Dectin-1 (also known as CLEC7A) is a pattern-recognition receptor
expressed by myeloid phagocytes (macrophages, dendritic cells and neutrophils)
that detects β-glucans in fungal cell walls and triggers direct cellular
antimicrobial activity, including phagocytosis and production of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS). In contrast to inflammatory responses stimulated upon detection of
soluble ligands by other pattern-recognition receptors, such as Toll-like
receptors (TLRs), these responses are only useful when a cell comes into direct
contact with a microbe and must not be spuriously activated by soluble stimuli.
In this study we show that, despite its ability to bind both soluble and
particulate β-glucan polymers, Dectin-1 signalling is only activated by
particulate β-glucans, which cluster the receptor in synapse-like structures from
which regulatory tyrosine phosphatases CD45 and CD148 (also known as PTPRC and
PTPRJ, respectively) are excluded (Supplementary Fig. 1). The 'phagocytic
synapse' now provides a model mechanism by which innate immune receptors can
distinguish direct microbial contact from detection of microbes at a distance,
thereby initiating direct cellular antimicrobial responses only when they are
required.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10071 
PMCID: PMC3084546
PMID: 21525931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):461-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10001.

Continuing Colorado plateau uplift by delamination-style convective lithospheric 
downwelling.

Levander A(1), Schmandt B, Miller MS, Liu K, Karlstrom KE, Crow RS, Lee CT,
Humphreys ED.

Author information: 
(1)Earth Science Department, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005-1892, USA.
alan@rice.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):420-1.

The Colorado plateau is a large, tectonically intact, physiographic province in
the southwestern North American Cordillera that stands at ∼1,800-2,000 m
elevation and has long been thought to be in isostatic equilibrium. The origin of
these high elevations is unclear because unlike the surrounding provinces, which 
have undergone significant Cretaceous-Palaeogene compressional deformation
followed by Neogene extensional deformation, the Colorado plateau is largely
internally undeformed. Here we combine new seismic tomography and receiver
function images to resolve a vertical high-seismic-velocity anomaly beneath the
west-central plateau that extends more than 200 km in depth. The upper surface of
this anomaly is seismically defined by a dipping interface extending from the
lower crust to depths of 70-90 km. The base of the continental crust above the
anomaly has a similar shape, with an elevated Moho. We interpret these seismic
structures as a continuing regional, delamination-style foundering of lower crust
and continental lithosphere. This implies that Pliocene (2.6-5.3 Myr ago) uplift 
of the plateau and the magmatism on its margins are intimately tied to continuing
deep lithospheric processes. Petrologic and geochemical observations indicate
that late Cretaceous-Palaeogene (∼90-40 Myr ago) low-angle subduction hydrated
and probably weakened much of the Proterozoic tectospheric mantle beneath the
Colorado plateau. We suggest that mid-Cenozoic (∼35-25 Myr ago) to Recent
magmatic infiltration subsequently imparted negative compositional buoyancy to
the base and sides of the Colorado plateau upper mantle, triggering downwelling. 
The patterns of magmatic activity suggest that previous such events have
progressively removed the Colorado plateau lithosphere inward from its margins,
and have driven uplift. Using Grand Canyon incision rates and Pliocene basaltic
volcanism patterns, we suggest that this particular event has been active over
the past ∼6 Myr.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10001 
PMID: 21525930 


599. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):458-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09998.

Superconductor-insulator transition in La2 - xSrxCuO4 at the pair quantum
resistance.

Bollinger AT(1), Dubuis G, Yoon J, Pavuna D, Misewich J, Božović I.

Author information: 
(1)Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973-5000, USA.

High-temperature superconductivity in copper oxides arises when a parent
insulator compound is doped beyond some critical concentration; what exactly
happens at this superconductor-insulator transition is a key open question. The
cleanest approach is to tune the carrier density using the electric field effect;
for example, it was learned in this way that weak electron localization
transforms superconducting SrTiO(3) into a Fermi-glass insulator. But in the
copper oxides this has been a long-standing technical challenge, because perfect 
ultrathin films and huge local fields (>10(9) V m(-1)) are needed. Recently, such
fields have been obtained using electrolytes or ionic liquids in the electric
double-layer transistor configuration. Here we report synthesis of epitaxial
films of La(2- x)Sr(x)CuO(4) that are one unit cell thick, and fabrication of
double-layer transistors. Very large fields and induced changes in surface
carrier density enable shifts in the critical temperature by up to 30 K. Hundreds
of resistance versus temperature and carrier density curves were recorded and
shown to collapse onto a single function, as predicted for a two-dimensional
superconductor-insulator transition. The observed critical resistance is
precisely the quantum resistance for pairs, R(Q) = h/(2e) = 6.45 kΩ, suggestive
of a phase transition driven by quantum phase fluctuations, and Cooper pair
(de)localization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09998 
PMID: 21525929 


600. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):454-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10000.

Imprints of fast-rotating massive stars in the Galactic Bulge.

Chiappini C(1), Frischknecht U, Meynet G, Hirschi R, Barbuy B, Pignatari M,
Decressin T, Maeder A.

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysikalisches Institut Potsdam, An der Sternwarte 16, Potsdam, 14482,
Germany. cristina.chiappini@aip.de

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 30;474(7353):666.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):426-7.

The first stars that formed after the Big Bang were probably massive, and they
provided the Universe with the first elements heavier than helium ('metals'),
which were incorporated into low-mass stars that have survived to the present.
Eight stars in the oldest globular cluster in the Galaxy, NGC 6522, were found to
have surface abundances consistent with the gas from which they formed being
enriched by massive stars (that is, with higher α-element/Fe and Eu/Fe ratios
than those of the Sun). However, the same stars have anomalously high abundances 
of Ba and La with respect to Fe, which usually arises through nucleosynthesis in 
low-mass stars (via the slow-neutron-capture process, or s-process). Recent
theory suggests that metal-poor fast-rotating massive stars are able to boost the
s-process yields by up to four orders of magnitude, which might provide a
solution to this contradiction. Here we report a reanalysis of the earlier
spectra, which reveals that Y and Sr are also overabundant with respect to Fe,
showing a large scatter similar to that observed in extremely metal-poor stars,
whereas C abundances are not enhanced. This pattern is best explained as
originating in metal-poor fast-rotating massive stars, which might point to a
common property of the first stellar generations and even of the 'first stars'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10000 
PMID: 21525928 


601. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):448-53. doi: 10.1038/nature09947.

Structure and mechanism of the chromatin remodelling factor ISW1a.

Yamada K(1), Frouws TD, Angst B, Fitzgerald DJ, DeLuca C, Schimmele K, Sargent
DF, Richmond TJ.

Author information: 
(1)ETH Zürich, Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, Schafmattstr. 20,
CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland.

Site-specific recognition of DNA in eukaryotic organisms depends on the
arrangement of nucleosomes in chromatin. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae,
ISW1a and related chromatin remodelling factors are implicated in establishing
the nucleosome repeat during replication and altering nucleosome position to
affect gene activity. Here we have solved the crystal structures of S. cerevisiae
ISW1a lacking its ATPase domain both alone and with DNA bound at resolutions of
3.25 Å and 3.60 Å, respectively, and we have visualized two different
nucleosome-containing remodelling complexes using cryo-electron microscopy. The
composite X-ray and electron microscopy structures combined with site-directed
photocrosslinking analyses of these complexes suggest that ISW1a uses a
dinucleosome substrate for chromatin remodelling. Results from a remodelling
assay corroborate the dinucleosome model. We show how a chromatin remodelling
factor could set the spacing between two adjacent nucleosomes acting as a
'protein ruler'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09947 
PMID: 21525927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):443-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10009.

Local sleep in awake rats.

Vyazovskiy VV(1), Olcese U, Hanlon EC, Nir Y, Cirelli C, Tononi G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 6001
Research Park Boulevard, Wisconsin 53719, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):427-8.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jun;12(6):305.

In an awake state, neurons in the cerebral cortex fire irregularly and
electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings display low-amplitude, high-frequency
fluctuations. During sleep, neurons oscillate between 'on' periods, when they
fire as in an awake brain, and 'off' periods, when they stop firing altogether
and the EEG displays high-amplitude slow waves. However, what happens to neuronal
firing after a long period of being awake is not known. Here we show that in
freely behaving rats after a long period in an awake state, cortical neurons can 
go briefly 'offline' as in sleep, accompanied by slow waves in the local EEG.
Neurons often go offline in one cortical area but not in another, and during
these periods of 'local sleep', the incidence of which increases with the
duration of the awake state, rats are active and display an 'awake' EEG. However,
they are progressively impaired in a sugar pellet reaching task. Thus, although
both the EEG and behaviour indicate wakefulness, local populations of neurons in 
the cortex may be falling asleep, with negative consequences for performance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10009 
PMCID: PMC3085007
PMID: 21525926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):429-36. doi: 10.1038/nature09983.

On the role of the Agulhas system in ocean circulation and climate.

Beal LM(1), De Ruijter WP, Biastoch A, Zahn R; SCOR/WCRP/IAPSO Working Group 136.

Collaborators: Cronin M, Hermes J, Lutjeharms J, Quartly G, Tozuka T,
Baker-Yeboah S, Bornman T, Cipollini P, Dijkstra H, Hall I, Park W, Peeters F,
Penven P, Ridderinkhof H, Zinke J.

Author information: 
(1)Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami, 4600
Rickenbacker Causeway, Florida 33149, USA. lbeal@rsmas.miami.edu

The Atlantic Ocean receives warm, saline water from the Indo-Pacific Ocean
through Agulhas leakage around the southern tip of Africa. Recent findings
suggest that Agulhas leakage is a crucial component of the climate system and
that ongoing increases in leakage under anthropogenic warming could strengthen
the Atlantic overturning circulation at a time when warming and accelerated
meltwater input in the North Atlantic is predicted to weaken it. Yet in
comparison with processes in the North Atlantic, the overall Agulhas system is
largely overlooked as a potential climate trigger or feedback mechanism. Detailed
modelling experiments--backed by palaeoceanographic and sustained modern
observations--are required to establish firmly the role of the Agulhas system in 
a warming climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09983 
PMID: 21525925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):495-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09914. Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Differential microRNA regulation of HLA-C expression and its association with HIV
control.

Kulkarni S(1), Savan R, Qi Y, Gao X, Yuki Y, Bass SE, Martin MP, Hunt P, Deeks
SG, Telenti A, Pereyra F, Goldstein D, Wolinsky S, Walker B, Young HA, Carrington
M.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer and Inflammation Program, Laboratory of Experimental Immunology,
SAIC-Frederick, Inc., NCI-Frederick, Frederick, Maryland, USA.

The HLA-C locus is distinct relative to the other classical HLA class I loci in
that it has relatively limited polymorphism, lower expression on the cell
surface, and more extensive ligand-receptor interactions with killer-cell
immunoglobulin-like receptors. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) 35 kb
upstream of HLA-C (rs9264942; termed -35) associates with control of HIV, and
with levels of HLA-C messenger RNA transcripts and cell-surface expression, but
the mechanism underlying its varied expression is unknown. We proposed that the
-35 SNP is not the causal variant for differential HLA-C expression, but rather
is marking another polymorphism that directly affects levels of HLA-C. Here we
show that variation within the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of HLA-C regulates
binding of the microRNA hsa-miR-148 to its target site, resulting in relatively
low surface expression of alleles that bind this microRNA and high expression of 
HLA-C alleles that escape post-transcriptional regulation. The 3' UTR variant
associates strongly with control of HIV, potentially adding to the effects of
genetic variation encoding the peptide-binding region of the HLA class I loci.
Variation in HLA-C expression adds another layer of diversity to this highly
polymorphic locus that must be considered when deciphering the function of these 
molecules in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09914 
PMCID: PMC3084326
PMID: 21499264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):491-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10075. Epub 2011 Apr 17.

Suppression of TH17 differentiation and autoimmunity by a synthetic ROR ligand.

Solt LA(1), Kumar N, Nuhant P, Wang Y, Lauer JL, Liu J, Istrate MA, Kamenecka TM,
Roush WR, Vidović D, Schürer SC, Xu J, Wagoner G, Drew PD, Griffin PR, Burris TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Therapeutics, The Scripps Research Institute, Jupiter,
Florida 33458, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):421-2.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Jun;10(6):413.

T-helper cells that produce interleukin-17 (T(H)17 cells) are a recently
identified CD4(+) T-cell subset with characterized pathological roles in
autoimmune diseases. The nuclear receptors retinoic-acid-receptor-related orphan 
receptors α and γt (RORα and RORγt, respectively) have indispensible roles in the
development of this cell type. Here we present SR1001, a high-affinity synthetic 
ligand-the first in a new class of compound-that is specific to both RORα and
RORγt and which inhibits T(H)17 cell differentiation and function. SR1001 binds
specifically to the ligand-binding domains of RORα and RORγt, inducing a
conformational change within the ligand-binding domain that encompasses the
repositioning of helix 12 and leads to diminished affinity for co-activators and 
increased affinity for co-repressors, resulting in suppression of the receptors' 
transcriptional activity. SR1001 inhibited the development of murine T(H)17
cells, as demonstrated by inhibition of interleukin-17A gene expression and
protein production. Furthermore, SR1001 inhibited the expression of cytokines
when added to differentiated murine or human T(H)17 cells. Finally, SR1001
effectively suppressed the clinical severity of autoimmune disease in mice. Our
data demonstrate the feasibility of targeting the orphan receptors RORα and RORγt
to inhibit specifically T(H)17 cell differentiation and function, and indicate
that this novel class of compound has potential utility in the treatment of
autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10075 
PMCID: PMC3148894
PMID: 21499262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):499-503. doi: 10.1038/nature09929. Epub 2011 Apr
10.

A system for the continuous directed evolution of biomolecules.

Esvelt KM(1), Carlson JC, Liu DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Laboratory evolution has generated many biomolecules with desired properties, but
a single round of mutation, gene expression, screening or selection, and
replication typically requires days or longer with frequent human intervention.
Because evolutionary success is dependent on the total number of rounds
performed, a means of performing laboratory evolution continuously and rapidly
could dramatically enhance its effectiveness. Although researchers have
accelerated individual steps in the evolutionary cycle, the only previous example
of continuous directed evolution was the landmark study of Wright and Joyce, who 
continuously evolved RNA ligase ribozymes with an in vitro replication cycle that
unfortunately cannot be easily adapted to other biomolecules. Here we describe a 
system that enables the continuous directed evolution of gene-encoded molecules
that can be linked to protein production in Escherichia coli. During
phage-assisted continuous evolution (PACE), evolving genes are transferred from
host cell to host cell through a modified bacteriophage life cycle in a manner
that is dependent on the activity of interest. Dozens of rounds of evolution can 
occur in a single day of PACE without human intervention. Using PACE, we evolved 
T7 RNA polymerase (RNAP) variants that recognize a distinct promoter, initiate
transcripts with ATP instead of GTP, and initiate transcripts with CTP. In one
example, PACE executed 200 rounds of protein evolution over the course of 8 days.
Starting from undetectable activity levels in two of these cases, enzymes with
each of the three target activities emerged in less than 1 week of PACE. In all
three cases, PACE-evolved polymerase activities exceeded or were comparable to
that of the wild-type T7 RNAP on its wild-type promoter, representing
improvements of up to several hundred-fold. By greatly accelerating laboratory
evolution, PACE may provide solutions to otherwise intractable directed evolution
problems and address novel questions about molecular evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09929 
PMCID: PMC3084352
PMID: 21478873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):481-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09907. Epub 2011 Apr 10.

A diverse range of gene products are effectors of the type I interferon antiviral
response.

Schoggins JW(1), Wilson SJ, Panis M, Murphy MY, Jones CT, Bieniasz P, Rice CM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology and Infectious Disease, Center for the Study of
Hepatitis C, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Sep 3;525(7567):144.

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2012 Mar;56(3):726-8.
    Gastroenterology. 2012 Jan;142(1):178-80.

The type I interferon response protects cells against invading viral pathogens.
The cellular factors that mediate this defence are the products of
interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Although hundreds of ISGs have been
identified since their discovery more than 25 years ago, only a few have been
characterized with respect to antiviral activity. For most ISG products, little
is known about their antiviral potential, their target specificity and their
mechanisms of action. Using an overexpression screening approach, here we show
that different viruses are targeted by unique sets of ISGs. We find that each
viral species is susceptible to multiple antiviral genes, which together
encompass a range of inhibitory activities. To conduct the screen, more than 380 
human ISGs were tested for their ability to inhibit the replication of several
important human and animal viruses, including hepatitis C virus, yellow fever
virus, West Nile virus, chikungunya virus, Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus
and human immunodeficiency virus type-1. Broadly acting effectors included IRF1, 
C6orf150 (also known as MB21D1), HPSE, RIG-I (also known as DDX58), MDA5 (also
known as IFIH1) and IFITM3, whereas more targeted antiviral specificity was
observed with DDX60, IFI44L, IFI6, IFITM2, MAP3K14, MOV10, NAMPT (also known as
PBEF1), OASL, RTP4, TREX1 and UNC84B (also known as SUN2). Combined expression of
pairs of ISGs showed additive antiviral effects similar to those of moderate type
I interferon doses. Mechanistic studies uncovered a common theme of translational
inhibition for numerous effectors. Several ISGs, including ADAR, FAM46C, LY6E and
MCOLN2, enhanced the replication of certain viruses, highlighting another layer
of complexity in the highly pleiotropic type I interferon system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09907 
PMCID: PMC3409588
PMID: 21478870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):466-70. doi: 10.1038/nature09817. Epub 2011 Apr 3.

Increasing adult hippocampal neurogenesis is sufficient to improve pattern
separation.

Sahay A(1), Scobie KN, Hill AS, O'Carroll CM, Kheirbek MA, Burghardt NS, Fenton
AA, Dranovsky A, Hen R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA. as2619@columbia.edu

Adult hippocampal neurogenesis is a unique form of neural circuit plasticity that
results in the generation of new neurons in the dentate gyrus throughout life.
Neurons that arise in adults (adult-born neurons) show heightened synaptic
plasticity during their maturation and can account for up to ten per cent of the 
entire granule cell population. Moreover, levels of adult hippocampal
neurogenesis are increased by interventions that are associated with beneficial
effects on cognition and mood, such as learning, environmental enrichment,
exercise and chronic treatment with antidepressants. Together, these properties
of adult neurogenesis indicate that this process could be harnessed to improve
hippocampal functions. However, despite a substantial number of studies
demonstrating that adult-born neurons are necessary for mediating specific
cognitive functions, as well as some of the behavioural effects of
antidepressants, it is unknown whether an increase in adult hippocampal
neurogenesis is sufficient to improve cognition and mood. Here we show that
inducible genetic expansion of the population of adult-born neurons through
enhancing their survival improves performance in a specific cognitive task in
which two similar contexts need to be distinguished. Mice with increased adult
hippocampal neurogenesis show normal object recognition, spatial learning,
contextual fear conditioning and extinction learning but are more efficient in
differentiating between overlapping contextual representations, which is
indicative of enhanced pattern separation. Furthermore, stimulation of adult
hippocampal neurogenesis, when combined with an intervention such as voluntary
exercise, produces a robust increase in exploratory behaviour. However,
increasing adult hippocampal neurogenesis alone does not produce a behavioural
response like that induced by anxiolytic agents or antidepressants. Together, our
findings suggest that strategies that are designed to increase adult hippocampal 
neurogenesis specifically, by targeting the cell death of adult-born neurons or
by other mechanisms, may have therapeutic potential for reversing impairments in 
pattern separation and dentate gyrus dysfunction such as those seen during normal
ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09817 
PMCID: PMC3084370
PMID: 21460835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):486-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09978. Epub 2011 Mar 27.

Digoxin and its derivatives suppress TH17 cell differentiation by antagonizing
RORγt activity.

Huh JR(1), Leung MW, Huang P, Ryan DA, Krout MR, Malapaka RR, Chow J, Manel N,
Ciofani M, Kim SV, Cuesta A, Santori FR, Lafaille JJ, Xu HE, Gin DY, Rastinejad
F, Littman DR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pathogenesis Program, The Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine of 
the Skirball Institute, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):421-2.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Jun;10(6):413.

CD4(+) T helper lymphocytes that express interleukin-17 (T(H)17 cells) have
critical roles in mouse models of autoimmunity, and there is mounting evidence
that they also influence inflammatory processes in humans. Genome-wide
association studies in humans have linked genes involved in T(H)17 cell
differentiation and function with susceptibility to Crohn's disease, rheumatoid
arthritis and psoriasis. Thus, the pathway towards differentiation of T(H)17
cells and, perhaps, of related innate lymphoid cells with similar effector
functions, is an attractive target for therapeutic applications. Mouse and human 
T(H)17 cells are distinguished by expression of the retinoic acid
receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor RORγt, which is required for induction
of IL-17 transcription and for the manifestation of T(H)17-dependent autoimmune
disease in mice. By performing a chemical screen with an insect cell-based
reporter system, we identified the cardiac glycoside digoxin as a specific
inhibitor of RORγt transcriptional activity. Digoxin inhibited murine T(H)17 cell
differentiation without affecting differentiation of other T cell lineages and
was effective in delaying the onset and reducing the severity of autoimmune
disease in mice. At high concentrations, digoxin is toxic for human cells, but
non-toxic synthetic derivatives 20,22-dihydrodigoxin-21,23-diol and
digoxin-21-salicylidene specifically inhibited induction of IL-17 in human CD4(+)
T cells. Using these small-molecule compounds, we demonstrate that RORγt is
important for the maintenance of IL-17 expression in mouse and human effector T
cells. These data indicate that derivatives of digoxin can be used as chemical
templates for the development of RORγt-targeted therapeutic agents that attenuate
inflammatory lymphocyte function and autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09978 
PMCID: PMC3172133
PMID: 21441909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):437-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09965. Epub 2011 Mar 20.

Shank3 mutant mice display autistic-like behaviours and striatal dysfunction.

Peça J(1), Feliciano C, Ting JT, Wang W, Wells MF, Venkatraman TN, Lascola CD, Fu
Z, Feng G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 May;12(5):248-9.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) comprise a range of disorders that share a core 
of neurobehavioural deficits characterized by widespread abnormalities in social 
interactions, deficits in communication as well as restricted interests and
repetitive behaviours. The neurological basis and circuitry mechanisms underlying
these abnormal behaviours are poorly understood. SHANK3 is a postsynaptic
protein, whose disruption at the genetic level is thought to be responsible for
the development of 22q13 deletion syndrome (Phelan-McDermid syndrome) and other
non-syndromic ASDs. Here we show that mice with Shank3 gene deletions exhibit
self-injurious repetitive grooming and deficits in social interaction. Cellular, 
electrophysiological and biochemical analyses uncovered defects at striatal
synapses and cortico-striatal circuits in Shank3 mutant mice. Our findings
demonstrate a critical role for SHANK3 in the normal development of neuronal
connectivity and establish causality between a disruption in the Shank3 gene and 
the genesis of autistic-like behaviours in mice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09965 
PMCID: PMC3090611
PMID: 21423165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):361-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09976.

TRIM5 is an innate immune sensor for the retrovirus capsid lattice.

Pertel T(1), Hausmann S, Morger D, Züger S, Guerra J, Lascano J, Reinhard C,
Santoni FA, Uchil PD, Chatel L, Bisiaux A, Albert ML, Strambio-De-Castillia C,
Mothes W, Pizzato M, Grütter MG, Luban J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Medicine, University of Geneva,
Geneva CH-1211, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):305-6.
    Cell Host Microbe. 2011 May 19;9(5):349-50.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Jun;9(6):398.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Jun;11(6):372-3.

TRIM5 is a RING domain-E3 ubiquitin ligase that restricts infection by human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 and other retroviruses immediately following virus
invasion of the target cell cytoplasm. Antiviral potency correlates with TRIM5
avidity for the retrovirion capsid lattice and several reports indicate that
TRIM5 has a role in signal transduction, but the precise mechanism of restriction
is unknown. Here we demonstrate that TRIM5 promotes innate immune signalling and 
that this activity is amplified by retroviral infection and interaction with the 
capsid lattice. Acting with the heterodimeric, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme
UBC13-UEV1A (also known as UBE2N-UBE2V1), TRIM5 catalyses the synthesis of
unattached K63-linked ubiquitin chains that activate the TAK1 (also known as
MAP3K7) kinase complex and stimulate AP-1 and NFκB signalling. Interaction with
the HIV-1 capsid lattice greatly enhances the UBC13-UEV1A-dependent E3 activity
of TRIM5 and challenge with retroviruses induces the transcription of AP-1 and
NF-κB-dependent factors with a magnitude that tracks with TRIM5 avidity for the
invading capsid. Finally, TAK1 and UBC13-UEV1A contribute to capsid-specific
restriction by TRIM5. Thus, the retroviral restriction factor TRIM5 has two
additional activities that are linked to restriction: it constitutively promotes 
innate immune signalling and it acts as a pattern recognition receptor specific
for the retrovirus capsid lattice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09976 
PMCID: PMC3081621
PMID: 21512573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):347-50. doi: 10.1038/nature09972.

A transient placental source of serotonin for the fetal forebrain.

Bonnin A(1), Goeden N, Chen K, Wilson ML, King J, Shih JC, Blakely RD, Deneris
ES, Levitt P.

Author information: 
(1)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine of USC, Los Angeles,
California 90089, USA. bonnin@usc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):298-9.

Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT) is thought to regulate neurodevelopmental
processes through maternal-fetal interactions that have long-term mental health
implications. It is thought that beyond fetal 5-HT neurons there are significant 
maternal contributions to fetal 5-HT during pregnancy but this has not been
tested empirically. To examine putative central and peripheral sources of
embryonic brain 5-HT, we used Pet1(-/-) (also called Fev) mice in which most
dorsal raphe neurons lack 5-HT. We detected previously unknown differences in
accumulation of 5-HT between the forebrain and hindbrain during early and late
fetal stages, through an exogenous source of 5-HT which is not of maternal
origin. Using additional genetic strategies, a new technology for studying
placental biology ex vivo and direct manipulation of placental neosynthesis, we
investigated the nature of this exogenous source. We uncovered a placental 5-HT
synthetic pathway from a maternal tryptophan precursor in both mice and humans.
This study reveals a new, direct role for placental metabolic pathways in
modulating fetal brain development and indicates that maternal-placental-fetal
interactions could underlie the pronounced impact of 5-HT on long-lasting mental 
health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09972 
PMCID: PMC3084180
PMID: 21512572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):334-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09963.

Optically healable supramolecular polymers.

Burnworth M(1), Tang L, Kumpfer JR, Duncan AJ, Beyer FL, Fiore GL, Rowan SJ,
Weder C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, Case Western Reserve
University, 2100 Adelbert Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7202, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):299-300.

Polymers with the ability to repair themselves after sustaining damage could
extend the lifetimes of materials used in many applications. Most approaches to
healable materials require heating the damaged area. Here we present
metallosupramolecular polymers that can be mended through exposure to light. They
consist of telechelic, rubbery, low-molecular-mass polymers with ligand end
groups that are non-covalently linked through metal-ion binding. On exposure to
ultraviolet light, the metal-ligand motifs are electronically excited and the
absorbed energy is converted into heat. This causes temporary disengagement of
the metal-ligand motifs and a concomitant reversible decrease in the polymers'
molecular mass and viscosity, thereby allowing quick and efficient defect
healing. Light can be applied locally to a damage site, so objects can in
principle be healed under load. We anticipate that this approach to healable
materials, based on supramolecular polymers and a light-heat conversion step, can
be applied to a wide range of supramolecular materials that use different
chemistries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09963 
PMID: 21512571 


614. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):331-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09928.

The auroral footprint of Enceladus on Saturn.

Pryor WR(1), Rymer AM, Mitchell DG, Hill TW, Young DT, Saur J, Jones GH, Jacobsen
S, Cowley SW, Mauk BH, Coates AJ, Gustin J, Grodent D, Gérard JC, Lamy L, Nichols
JD, Krimigis SM, Esposito LW, Dougherty MK, Jouchoux AJ, Stewart AI, McClintock
WE, Holsclaw GM, Ajello JM, Colwell JE, Hendrix AR, Crary FJ, Clarke JT, Zhou X.

Author information: 
(1)Science Department, Central Arizona College, Coolidge, Arizona 85128, USA.

Although there are substantial differences between the magnetospheres of Jupiter 
and Saturn, it has been suggested that cryovolcanic activity at Enceladus could
lead to electrodynamic coupling between Enceladus and Saturn like that which
links Jupiter with Io, Europa and Ganymede. Powerful field-aligned electron beams
associated with the Io-Jupiter coupling, for example, create an auroral footprint
in Jupiter's ionosphere. Auroral ultraviolet emission associated with
Enceladus-Saturn coupling is anticipated to be just a few tenths of a
kilorayleigh (ref. 12), about an order of magnitude dimmer than Io's footprint
and below the observable threshold, consistent with its non-detection. Here we
report the detection of magnetic-field-aligned ion and electron beams (offset
several moon radii downstream from Enceladus) with sufficient power to stimulate 
detectable aurora, and the subsequent discovery of Enceladus-associated aurora in
a few per cent of the scans of the moon's footprint. The footprint varies in
emission magnitude more than can plausibly be explained by changes in
magnetospheric parameters--and as such is probably indicative of variable plume
activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09928 
PMID: 21512570 


615. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):307-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09994. Epub 2011 Apr 13.

Quantum simulation of antiferromagnetic spin chains in an optical lattice.

Simon J(1), Bakr WS, Ma R, Tai ME, Preiss PM, Greiner M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, 17 Oxford Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):301-2.

Understanding exotic forms of magnetism in quantum mechanical systems is a
central goal of modern condensed matter physics, with implications for systems
ranging from high-temperature superconductors to spintronic devices. Simulating
magnetic materials in the vicinity of a quantum phase transition is
computationally intractable on classical computers, owing to the extreme
complexity arising from quantum entanglement between the constituent magnetic
spins. Here we use a degenerate Bose gas of rubidium atoms confined in an optical
lattice to simulate a chain of interacting quantum Ising spins as they undergo a 
phase transition. Strong spin interactions are achieved through a site-occupation
to pseudo-spin mapping. As we vary a magnetic field, quantum fluctuations drive a
phase transition from a paramagnetic phase into an antiferromagnetic phase. In
the paramagnetic phase, the interaction between the spins is overwhelmed by the
applied field, which aligns the spins. In the antiferromagnetic phase, the
interaction dominates and produces staggered magnetic ordering. Magnetic domain
formation is observed through both in situ site-resolved imaging and noise
correlation measurements. By demonstrating a route to quantum magnetism in an
optical lattice, this work should facilitate further investigations of magnetic
models using ultracold atoms, thereby improving our understanding of real
magnetic materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09994 
PMID: 21490600 


616. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):338-41. doi: 10.1038/nature09903. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

Thermal history of Mars inferred from orbital geochemistry of volcanic provinces.

Baratoux D(1), Toplis MJ, Monnereau M, Gasnault O.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS-OMP, IRAP, F-31400 Toulouse, France.
baratoux@dtp.obs-mip.fr

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):254.

Reconstruction of the geological history of Mars has been the focus of
considerable attention over the past four decades, with important discoveries
being made about variations in surface conditions. However, despite a significant
increase in the amount of data related to the morphology, mineralogy and
chemistry of the martian surface, there is no clear global picture of how
magmatism has evolved over time and how these changes relate to the internal
workings and thermal evolution of the planet. Here we present geochemical data
derived from the Gamma Ray Spectrometer on board NASA's Mars Odyssey spacecraft, 
focusing on twelve major volcanic provinces of variable age. Our analysis reveals
clear trends in composition that are found to be consistent with varying degrees 
of melting of the martian mantle. There is evidence for thickening of the
lithosphere (17-25 km Gyr(-1)) associated with a decrease in mantle potential
temperature over time (30-40 K Gyr(-1)). Our inferred thermal history of Mars,
unlike that of the Earth, is consistent with simple models of mantle convection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09903 
PMID: 21471967 


617. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):370-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09872. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

Eutherian mammals use diverse strategies to initiate X-chromosome inactivation
during development.

Okamoto I(1), Patrat C, Thépot D, Peynot N, Fauque P, Daniel N, Diabangouaya P,
Wolf JP, Renard JP, Duranthon V, Heard E.

Author information: 
(1)Mammalian Developmental Epigenetics Group, Institut Curie, CNRS UMR 3215,
INSERM U934, Paris 75248, France.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 9;474(7350):239-40.

X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) in female mammals allows dosage compensation for 
X-linked gene products between the sexes. The developmental regulation of this
process has been extensively investigated in mice, where the X chromosome of
paternal origin (Xp) is silenced during early embryogenesis owing to imprinted
expression of the regulatory RNA, Xist (X-inactive specific transcript). Paternal
XCI is reversed in the inner cell mass of the blastocyst and random XCI
subsequently occurs in epiblast cells. Here we show that other eutherian mammals 
have very different strategies for initiating XCI. In rabbits and humans, the
Xist homologue is not subject to imprinting and XCI begins later than in mice.
Furthermore, Xist is upregulated on both X chromosomes in a high proportion of
rabbit and human embryo cells, even in the inner cell mass. In rabbits, this
triggers XCI on both X chromosomes in some cells. In humans, chromosome-wide XCI 
has not initiated even by the blastocyst stage, despite the upregulation of XIST.
The choice of which X chromosome will finally become inactive thus occurs
downstream of Xist upregulation in both rabbits and humans, unlike in mice. Our
study demonstrates the remarkable diversity in XCI regulation and highlights
differences between mammals in their requirement for dosage compensation during
early embryogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09872 
PMID: 21471966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):375-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09869. Epub 2011 Apr 3.

Genome-wide analysis reveals novel molecular features of mouse recombination
hotspots.

Smagulova F(1), Gregoretti IV, Brick K, Khil P, Camerini-Otero RD, Petukhova GV.

Author information: 
(1)Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland
20814, USA.

Meiotic recombination predominantly occurs at discrete genomic loci called
recombination hotspots, but the features defining these areas are still largely
unknown (reviewed in refs 1-5). To allow a comprehensive analysis of
hotspot-associated DNA and chromatin characteristics, we developed a direct
molecular approach for mapping meiotic DNA double-strand breaks that initiate
recombination. Here we present the genome-wide distribution of recombination
initiation sites in the mouse genome. Hotspot centres are mapped with
approximately 200-nucleotide precision, which allows analysis of the fine
structural details of the preferred recombination sites. We determine that
hotspots share a centrally distributed consensus motif, possess a nucleotide skew
that changes polarity at the centres of hotspots and have an intrinsic preference
to be occupied by a nucleosome. Furthermore, we find that the vast majority of
recombination initiation sites in mouse males are associated with testis-specific
trimethylation of lysine 4 on histone H3 that is distinct from histone H3 lysine 
4 trimethylation marks associated with transcription. The recombination map
presented here has been derived from a homogeneous mouse population with a
defined genetic background and therefore lends itself to extensive future
experimental exploration. We note that the mapping technique developed here does 
not depend on the availability of genetic markers and hence can be easily adapted
to other species with complex genomes. Our findings uncover several fundamental
features of mammalian recombination hotspots and underline the power of the new
recombination map for future studies of genetic recombination, genome stability
and evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09869 
PMCID: PMC3117304
PMID: 21460839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):356-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09874. Epub 2011 Apr 3.

Ephrin Bs are essential components of the Reelin pathway to regulate neuronal
migration.

Sentürk A(1), Pfennig S, Weiss A, Burk K, Acker-Palmer A.

Author information: 
(1)Frankfurt Institute for Molecular Life Sciences and Institute of Cell Biology 
and Neuroscience, Goethe University Frankfurt, Max-von-Laue-Str. 9, D-60438,
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Oct 13;478(7368):274.

Coordinated migration of neurons in the developing and adult brain is essential
for its proper function. The secreted glycoprotein Reelin (also known as RELN)
guides migration of neurons by binding to two lipoprotein receptors, the
very-low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and apolipoprotein E receptor 2
(ApoER2, also known as LRP8). Loss of Reelin function in humans results in the
severe developmental disorder lissencephaly and it has also been associated with 
other neurological disorders such as epilepsy, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's
disease. The molecular mechanisms by which Reelin activates its receptors and
controls cellular functions are largely unknown. Here we show that the neuronal
guidance cues ephrin B proteins are essential for Reelin signalling during the
development of laminated structures in the brain. We show that ephrin Bs
genetically interact with Reelin. Notably, compound mouse mutants (Reln(+/-);
Efnb3(-/-) or Reln(+/-); Efnb2(-/-)) and triple ephrin B1, B2, B3 knockouts show 
neuronal migration defects that recapitulate the ones observed in the neocortex, 
hippocampus and cerebellum of the reeler mouse. Mechanistically, we show that
Reelin binds to the extracellular domain of ephrin Bs, which associate at the
membrane with VLDLR and ApoER2 in neurons. Clustering of ephrin Bs leads to the
recruitment and phosphorylation of Dab1 which is necessary for Reelin signalling.
Conversely, loss of function of ephrin Bs severely impairs Reelin-induced Dab1
phosphorylation. Importantly, activation of ephrin Bs can rescue the reeler
neuronal migration defects in the absence of Reelin protein. Together, our
results identify ephrin Bs as essential components of the Reelin
receptor/signalling pathway to control neuronal migration during the development 
of the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09874 
PMID: 21460838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):351-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09865. Epub 2011 Apr 3.

Neuronal activity is required for the development of specific cortical
interneuron subtypes.

De Marco García NV(1), Karayannis T, Fishell G.

Author information: 
(1)Smilow Neuroscience Program, Departments of Cell Biology and Neural Science,
New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Jun;12(6):308.

Electrical activity has been shown to regulate development in a variety of
species and in various structures, including the retina, spinal cord and cortex. 
Within the mammalian cortex specifically, the development of dendrites and
commissural axons in pyramidal cells is activity-dependent. However, little is
known about the developmental role of activity in the other major cortical
population of neurons, the GABA-producing interneurons. These neurons are
morphologically and functionally heterogeneous and efforts over the past decade
have focused on determining the mechanisms that contribute to this diversity. It 
was recently discovered that 30% of all cortical interneurons arise from a
relatively novel source within the ventral telencephalon, the caudal ganglionic
eminence (CGE). Owing to their late birth date, these interneurons populate the
cortex only after the majority of other interneurons and pyramidal cells are
already in place and have started to functionally integrate. Here we demonstrate 
in mice that for CGE-derived reelin (Re)-positive and calretinin (Cr)-positive
(but not vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-positive) interneurons, activity is 
essential before postnatal day 3 for correct migration, and that after postnatal 
day 3, glutamate-mediated activity controls the development of their axons and
dendrites. Furthermore, we show that the engulfment and cell motility 1 gene
(Elmo1), a target of the transcription factor distal-less homeobox 1 (Dlx1), is
selectively expressed in Re(+) and Cr(+) interneurons and is both necessary and
sufficient for activity-dependent interneuron migration. Our findings reveal a
selective requirement for activity in shaping the cortical integration of
specific neuronal subtypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09865 
PMCID: PMC3641515
PMID: 21460837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):366-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09860. Epub 2011 Mar 27.

A Raf-induced allosteric transition of KSR stimulates phosphorylation of MEK.

Brennan DF(1), Dar AC, Hertz NT, Chao WC, Burlingame AL, Shokat KM, Barford D.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty
Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK.

In metazoans, the Ras-Raf-MEK (mitogen-activated protein-kinase kinase)-ERK
(extracellular signal-regulated kinase) signalling pathway relays extracellular
stimuli to elicit changes in cellular function and gene expression. Aberrant
activation of this pathway through oncogenic mutations is responsible for a large
proportion of human cancer. Kinase suppressor of Ras (KSR) functions as an
essential scaffolding protein to coordinate the assembly of Raf-MEK-ERK
complexes. Here we integrate structural and biochemical studies to understand how
KSR promotes stimulatory Raf phosphorylation of MEK (refs 6, 7). We show, from
the crystal structure of the kinase domain of human KSR2 (KSR2(KD)) in complex
with rabbit MEK1, that interactions between KSR2(KD) and MEK1 are mediated by
their respective activation segments and C-lobe αG helices. Analogous to BRAF
(refs 8, 9), KSR2 self-associates through a side-to-side interface involving
Arg 718, a residue identified in a genetic screen as a suppressor of Ras
signalling. ATP is bound to the KSR2(KD) catalytic site, and we demonstrate KSR2 
kinase activity towards MEK1 by in vitro assays and chemical genetics. In the
KSR2(KD)-MEK1 complex, the activation segments of both kinases are mutually
constrained, and KSR2 adopts an inactive conformation. BRAF allosterically
stimulates the kinase activity of KSR2, which is dependent on formation of a
side-to-side KSR2-BRAF heterodimer. Furthermore, KSR2-BRAF heterodimerization
results in an increase of BRAF-induced MEK phosphorylation via the KSR2-mediated 
relay of a signal from BRAF to release the activation segment of MEK for
phosphorylation. We propose that KSR interacts with a regulatory Raf molecule in 
cis to induce a conformational switch of MEK, facilitating MEK's phosphorylation 
by a separate catalytic Raf molecule in trans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09860 
PMID: 21441910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):342-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09905. Epub 2011 Mar 27.

Metabolic trade-offs and the maintenance of the fittest and the flattest.

Beardmore RE(1), Gudelj I, Lipson DA, Hurst LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematics, Imperial College London, Huxley Building, 180
Queen's Gate, London SW7 2A7, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 May;12(5):297.

How is diversity maintained? Environmental heterogeneity is considered to be
important, yet diversity in seemingly homogeneous environments is nonetheless
observed. This, it is assumed, must either be owing to weak selection, mutational
input or a fitness advantage to genotypes when rare. Here we demonstrate the
possibility of a new general mechanism of stable diversity maintenance, one that 
stems from metabolic and physiological trade-offs. The model requires that such
trade-offs translate into a fitness landscape in which the most fit has unfit
near-mutational neighbours, and a lower fitness peak also exists that is more
mutationally robust. The 'survival of the fittest' applies at low mutation rates,
giving way to 'survival of the flattest' at high mutation rates. However, as a
consequence of quasispecies-level negative frequency-dependent selection and
differences in mutational robustness we observe a transition zone in which both
fittest and flattest coexist. Although diversity maintenance is possible for
simple organisms in simple environments, the more trade-offs there are, the wider
the maintenance zone becomes. The principle may be applied to lineages within a
species or species within a community, potentially explaining why competitive
exclusion need not be observed in homogeneous environments. This principle
predicts the enigmatic richness of metabolic strategies in clonal bacteria and
questions the safety of lethal mutagenesis as an antimicrobial treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09905 
PMID: 21441905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):325-30. doi: 10.1038/nature09853. Epub 2011 Mar 20.

Crystal structure of inhibitor of κB kinase β.

Xu G(1), Lo YC, Li Q, Napolitano G, Wu X, Jiang X, Dreano M, Karin M, Wu H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 
10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Apr;10(4):260.

Inhibitor of κB (IκB) kinase (IKK) phosphorylates IκB proteins, leading to their 
degradation and the liberation of nuclear factor κB for gene transcription. Here 
we report the crystal structure of IKKβ in complex with an inhibitor, at a
resolution of 3.6 Å. The structure reveals a trimodular architecture comprising
the kinase domain, a ubiquitin-like domain (ULD) and an elongated, α-helical
scaffold/dimerization domain (SDD). Unexpectedly, the predicted leucine zipper
and helix-loop-helix motifs do not form these structures but are part of the SDD.
The ULD and SDD mediate a critical interaction with IκBα that restricts substrate
specificity, and the ULD is also required for catalytic activity. The SDD
mediates IKKβ dimerization, but dimerization per se is not important for
maintaining IKKβ activity and instead is required for IKKβ activation. Other IKK 
family members, IKKα, TBK1 and IKK-i, may have a similar trimodular architecture 
and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09853 
PMCID: PMC3081413
PMID: 21423167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):313-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09821. Epub 2011 Mar 16.

Catecholamine receptor polymorphisms affect decision-making in C. elegans.

Bendesky A(1), Tsunozaki M, Rockman MV, Kruglyak L, Bargmann CI.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Laboratory of Neural Circuits and Behavior,
The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Innate behaviours are flexible: they change rapidly in response to transient
environmental conditions, and are modified slowly by changes in the genome. A
classical flexible behaviour is the exploration-exploitation decision, which
describes the time at which foraging animals choose to abandon a depleting food
supply. We have used quantitative genetic analysis to examine the decision to
leave a food patch in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we show that patch-leaving is 
a multigenic trait regulated in part by naturally occurring non-coding
polymorphisms in tyra-3 (tyramine receptor 3), which encodes a G-protein-coupled 
catecholamine receptor related to vertebrate adrenergic receptors. tyra-3 acts in
sensory neurons that detect environmental cues, suggesting that the internal
catecholamines detected by tyra-3 regulate responses to external conditions.
These results indicate that genetic variation and environmental cues converge on 
common circuits to regulate behaviour, and suggest that catecholamines have an
ancient role in regulating behavioural decisions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09821 
PMCID: PMC3154120
PMID: 21412235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nature. 2011 Apr 21;472(7343):319-24. doi: 10.1038/nature09788. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

Caspase signalling controls microglia activation and neurotoxicity.

Burguillos MA(1), Deierborg T, Kavanagh E, Persson A, Hajji N, Garcia-Quintanilla
A, Cano J, Brundin P, Englund E, Venero JL, Joseph B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Cancer Centrum Karolinska, Karolinska
Institutet, 171 76, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 May;12(5):246.

Activation of microglia and inflammation-mediated neurotoxicity are suggested to 
play a decisive role in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders. 
Activated microglia release pro-inflammatory factors that may be neurotoxic. Here
we show that the orderly activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3/7, known
executioners of apoptotic cell death, regulate microglia activation through a
protein kinase C (PKC)-δ-dependent pathway. We find that stimulation of microglia
with various inflammogens activates caspase-8 and caspase-3/7 in microglia
without triggering cell death in vitro and in vivo. Knockdown or chemical
inhibition of each of these caspases hindered microglia activation and
consequently reduced neurotoxicity. We observe that these caspases are activated 
in microglia in the ventral mesencephalon of Parkinson's disease (PD) and the
frontal cortex of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Taken together, we
show that caspase-8 and caspase-3/7 are involved in regulating microglia
activation. We conclude that inhibition of these caspases could be
neuroprotective by targeting the microglia rather than the neurons themselves.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09788 
PMID: 21389984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):201-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09989.

Universal spin transport in a strongly interacting Fermi gas.

Sommer A(1), Ku M, Roati G, Zwierlein MW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA. atsommer@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):172-3.

Transport of fermions, particles with half-integer spin, is central to many
fields of physics. Electron transport runs modern technology, defining states of 
matter such as superconductors and insulators, and electron spin is being
explored as a new carrier of information. Neutrino transport energizes supernova 
explosions following the collapse of a dying star, and hydrodynamic transport of 
the quark-gluon plasma governed the expansion of the early Universe. However, our
understanding of non-equilibrium dynamics in such strongly interacting fermionic 
matter is still limited. Ultracold gases of fermionic atoms realize a pristine
model for such systems and can be studied in real time with the precision of
atomic physics. Even above the superfluid transition, such gases flow as an
almost perfect fluid with very low viscosity when interactions are tuned to a
scattering resonance. In this hydrodynamic regime, collective density excitations
are weakly damped. Here we experimentally investigate spin excitations in a Fermi
gas of (6)Li atoms, finding that, in contrast, they are maximally damped. A spin 
current is induced by spatially separating two spin components and observing
their evolution in an external trapping potential. We demonstrate that
interactions can be strong enough to reverse spin currents, with components of
opposite spin reflecting off each other. Near equilibrium, we obtain the spin
drag coefficient, the spin diffusivity and the spin susceptibility as a function 
of temperature on resonance and show that they obey universal laws at high
temperatures. In the degenerate regime, the spin diffusivity approaches a value
set by [planck]/m, the quantum limit of diffusion, where [planck]/m is Planck's
constant divided by 2π and m the atomic mass. For repulsive interactions, our
measurements seem to exclude a metastable ferromagnetic state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09989 
PMID: 21490670 


627. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):197-200. doi: 10.1038/nature09925.

Magneto-thermal convection in solar prominences.

Berger T(1), Testa P, Hillier A, Boerner P, Low BC, Shibata K, Schrijver C,
Tarbell T, Title A.

Author information: 
(1)Lockheed Martin Advanced Technology Center, Solar and Astrophysics Laboratory,
O/ADBS B/252, 3251 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, California 94304, USA.
berger@lmsal.com

Coronal cavities are large low-density regions formed by hemispheric-scale
magnetic flux ropes suspended in the Sun's outer atmosphere. They evolve over
time, eventually erupting as the dark cores of coronal mass ejections. Although
coronal mass ejections are common and can significantly affect planetary
magnetospheres, the mechanisms by which cavities evolve to an eruptive state
remain poorly understood. Recent optical observations of high-latitude 'polar
crown' prominences within coronal cavities reveal dark, low-density 'bubbles'
that undergo Rayleigh-Taylor instabilities to form dark plumes rising into
overlying coronal cavities. These observations offered a possible mechanism for
coronal cavity evolution, although the nature of the bubbles, particularly their 
buoyancy, was hitherto unclear. Here we report simultaneous optical and
extreme-ultraviolet observations of polar crown prominences that show that these 
bubbles contain plasma at temperatures in the range (2.5-12) × 10(5) kelvin,
which is 25-120 times hotter than the overlying prominence. This identifies a
source of the buoyancy, and suggests that the coronal cavity-prominence system
supports a novel form of magneto-thermal convection in the solar atmosphere,
challenging current hydromagnetic concepts of prominences and their relation to
coronal cavities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09925 
PMID: 21490669 


628. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):181-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09921.

Transitional mammalian middle ear from a new Cretaceous Jehol eutriconodont.

Meng J(1), Wang Y, Li C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park
West at 79th Street, New York, New York 10024, USA. jmeng@amnh.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):174-6.

The transference of post-dentary jaw elements to the cranium of mammals as
auditory ossicles is one of the central topics in evolutionary biology of
vertebrates. Homologies of these bones among jawed vertebrates have long been
demonstrated by developmental studies; but fossils illuminating this critical
transference are sparse and often ambiguous. Here we report the first unambiguous
ectotympanic (angular), malleus (articular and prearticular) and incus (quadrate)
of an Early Cretaceous eutriconodont mammal from the Jehol Biota, Liaoning,
China. The ectotympanic and malleus have lost their direct contact with the
dentary bone but still connect the ossified Meckel's cartilage (OMC); we
hypothesize that the OMC serves as a stabilizing mechanism bridging the dentary
and the detached ossicles during mammalian evolution. This transitional mammalian
middle ear narrows the morphological gap between the mandibular middle ear in
basal mammaliaforms and the definitive mammalian middle ear (DMME) of extant
mammals; it reveals complex changes contributing to the detachment of ear
ossicles during mammalian evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09921 
PMID: 21490668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):213-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09868. Epub 2011 Mar 30.

Distinct representations of olfactory information in different cortical centres.

Sosulski DL(1), Bloom ML, Cutforth T, Axel R, Datta SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Sensory information is transmitted to the brain where it must be processed to
translate stimulus features into appropriate behavioural output. In the olfactory
system, distributed neural activity in the nose is converted into a segregated
map in the olfactory bulb. Here we investigate how this ordered representation is
transformed in higher olfactory centres in mice. We have developed a tracing
strategy to define the neural circuits that convey information from individual
glomeruli in the olfactory bulb to the piriform cortex and the cortical amygdala.
The spatial order in the bulb is discarded in the piriform cortex; axons from
individual glomeruli project diffusely to the piriform without apparent spatial
preference. In the cortical amygdala, we observe broad patches of projections
that are spatially stereotyped for individual glomeruli. These projections to the
amygdala are overlapping and afford the opportunity for spatially localized
integration of information from multiple glomeruli. The identification of a
distributive pattern of projections to the piriform and stereotyped projections
to the amygdala provides an anatomical context for the generation of learned and 
innate behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09868 
PMCID: PMC3354569
PMID: 21451525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):217-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09945. Epub 2011 Mar 30.

Sensory maps in the olfactory cortex defined by long-range viral tracing of
single neurons.

Ghosh S(1), Larson SD, Hefzi H, Marnoy Z, Cutforth T, Dokka K, Baldwin KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Sensory information may be represented in the brain by stereotyped mapping of
axonal inputs or by patterning that varies between individuals. In olfaction, a
stereotyped map is evident in the first sensory processing centre, the olfactory 
bulb (OB), where different odours elicit activity in unique combinatorial
patterns of spatially invariant glomeruli. Activation of each glomerulus is
relayed to higher cortical processing centres by a set of ∼20-50 'homotypic'
mitral and tufted (MT) neurons. In the cortex, target neurons integrate
information from multiple glomeruli to detect distinct features of chemically
diverse odours. How this is accomplished remains unclear, perhaps because the
cortical mapping of glomerular information by individual MT neurons has not been 
described. Here we use new viral tracing and three-dimensional brain
reconstruction methods to compare the cortical projections of defined sets of MT 
neurons. We show that the gross-scale organization of the OB is preserved in the 
patterns of axonal projections to one processing centre yet reordered in another,
suggesting that distinct coding strategies may operate in different targets.
However, at the level of individual neurons neither glomerular order nor
stereotypy is preserved in either region. Rather, homotypic MT neurons from the
same glomerulus innervate broad regions that differ between individuals.
Strikingly, even in the same animal, MT neurons exhibit extensive diversity in
wiring; axons of homotypic MT pairs diverge from each other, emit primary
branches at distinct locations and 70-90% of branches of homotypic and
heterotypic pairs are non-overlapping. This pronounced reorganization of sensory 
maps in the cortex offers an anatomic substrate for expanded combinatorial
integration of information from spatially distinct glomeruli and predicts an
unanticipated role for diversification of otherwise similar output neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09945 
PMID: 21451523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):226-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09873. Epub 2011 Mar 30.

Amyloid-binding compounds maintain protein homeostasis during ageing and extend
lifespan.

Alavez S(1), Vantipalli MC, Zucker DJ, Klang IM, Lithgow GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, 8001 Redwood Blvd, Novato, California
94945, USA.

Comment in
    Rejuvenation Res. 2011 Jun;14(3):335-9.
    Nat Methods. 2011 May;8(5):376.

Genetic studies indicate that protein homeostasis is a major contributor to
metazoan longevity. Collapse of protein homeostasis results in protein misfolding
cascades and the accumulation of insoluble protein fibrils and aggregates, such
as amyloids. A group of small molecules, traditionally used in histopathology to 
stain amyloid in tissues, bind protein fibrils and slow aggregation in vitro and 
in cell culture. We proposed that treating animals with such compounds would
promote protein homeostasis in vivo and increase longevity. Here we show that
exposure of adult Caenorhabditis elegans to the amyloid-binding dye Thioflavin T 
(ThT) resulted in a profoundly extended lifespan and slowed ageing. ThT also
suppressed pathological features of mutant metastable proteins and human
β-amyloid-associated toxicity. These beneficial effects of ThT depend on the
protein homeostasis network regulator heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1), the stress
resistance and longevity transcription factor SKN-1, molecular chaperones,
autophagy and proteosomal functions. Our results demonstrate that pharmacological
maintenance of the protein homeostatic network has a profound impact on ageing
rates, prompting the development of novel therapeutic interventions against
ageing and age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09873 
PMCID: PMC3610427
PMID: 21451522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09901. Epub 2011 Mar 30.

Transient ferromagnetic-like state mediating ultrafast reversal of
antiferromagnetically coupled spins.

Radu I(1), Vahaplar K, Stamm C, Kachel T, Pontius N, Dürr HA, Ostler TA, Barker
J, Evans RF, Chantrell RW, Tsukamoto A, Itoh A, Kirilyuk A, Rasing T, Kimel AV.

Author information: 
(1)Radboud University Nijmegen, Institute for Molecules and Materials,
Heyendaalseweg 135, 6525 AJ Nijmegen, The Netherlands. i.radu@science.ru.nl

Ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic spin ordering is governed by the exchange
interaction, the strongest force in magnetism. Understanding spin dynamics in
magnetic materials is an issue of crucial importance for progress in information 
processing and recording technology. Usually the dynamics are studied by
observing the collective response of exchange-coupled spins, that is, spin
resonances, after an external perturbation by a pulse of magnetic field, current 
or light. The periods of the corresponding resonances range from one nanosecond
for ferromagnets down to one picosecond for antiferromagnets. However, virtually 
nothing is known about the behaviour of spins in a magnetic material after being 
excited on a timescale faster than that corresponding to the exchange interaction
(10-100 fs), that is, in a non-adiabatic way. Here we use the element-specific
technique X-ray magnetic circular dichroism to study spin reversal in GdFeCo that
is optically excited on a timescale pertinent to the characteristic time of the
exchange interaction between Gd and Fe spins. We unexpectedly find that the
ultrafast spin reversal in this material, where spins are coupled
antiferromagnetically, occurs by way of a transient ferromagnetic-like state.
Following the optical excitation, the net magnetizations of the Gd and Fe
sublattices rapidly collapse, switch their direction and rebuild their net
magnetic moments at substantially different timescales; the net magnetic moment
of the Gd sublattice is found to reverse within 1.5 picoseconds, which is
substantially slower than the Fe reversal time of 300 femtoseconds. Consequently,
a transient state characterized by a temporary parallel alignment of the net Gd
and Fe moments emerges, despite their ground-state antiferromagnetic coupling.
These surprising observations, supported by atomistic simulations, provide a
concept for the possibility of manipulating magnetic order on the timescale of
the exchange interaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09901 
PMID: 21451521 


633. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09899. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Redox freezing and melting in the Earth's deep mantle resulting from carbon-iron 
redox coupling.

Rohrbach A(1), Schmidt MW.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Geochemie und Petrologie, ETH Zürich, Sonneggstrasse 5, 8092
Zürich, Switzerland. arno.rohrbach@gmail.com

Very low seismic velocity anomalies in the Earth's mantle may reflect small
amounts of melt present in the peridotite matrix, and the onset of melting in the
Earth's upper mantle is likely to be triggered by the presence of small amounts
of carbonate. Such carbonates stem from subducted oceanic lithosphere in part
buried to depths below the 660-kilometre discontinuity and remixed into the
mantle. Here we demonstrate that carbonate-induced melting may occur in deeply
subducted lithosphere at near-adiabatic temperatures in the Earth's transition
zone and lower mantle. We show experimentally that these carbonatite melts are
unstable when infiltrating ambient mantle and are reduced to immobile diamond
when recycled at depths greater than ∼250 kilometres, where mantle redox
conditions are determined by the presence of an (Fe,Ni) metal phase. This 'redox 
freezing' process leads to diamond-enriched mantle domains in which the Fe(0),
resulting from Fe(2+) disproportionation in perovskites and garnet, is consumed
but the Fe(3+) preserved. When such carbon-enriched mantle heterogeneities become
part of the upwelling mantle, diamond will inevitably react with the Fe(3+)
leading to true carbonatite redox melting at ∼660 and ∼250 kilometres depth to
form deep-seated melts in the Earth's mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09899 
PMID: 21441908 


634. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):186-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09975. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Loss-of-function mutations in sodium channel Nav1.7 cause anosmia.

Weiss J(1), Pyrski M, Jacobi E, Bufe B, Willnecker V, Schick B, Zizzari P,
Gossage SJ, Greer CA, Leinders-Zufall T, Woods CG, Wood JN, Zufall F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Saarland School of Medicine, 66421
Homburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):173-4.

Loss of function of the gene SCN9A, encoding the voltage-gated sodium channel
Na(v)1.7, causes a congenital inability to experience pain in humans. Here we
show that Na(v)1.7 is not only necessary for pain sensation but is also an
essential requirement for odour perception in both mice and humans. We examined
human patients with loss-of-function mutations in SCN9A and show that they are
unable to sense odours. To establish the essential role of Na(v)1.7 in odour
perception, we generated conditional null mice in which Na(v)1.7 was removed from
all olfactory sensory neurons. In the absence of Na(v)1.7, these neurons still
produce odour-evoked action potentials but fail to initiate synaptic signalling
from their axon terminals at the first synapse in the olfactory system. The
mutant mice no longer display vital, odour-guided behaviours such as innate odour
recognition and avoidance, short-term odour learning, and maternal pup retrieval.
Our study creates a mouse model of congenital general anosmia and provides new
strategies to explore the genetic basis of the human sense of smell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09975 
PMCID: PMC3674497
PMID: 21441906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):238-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09862. Epub 2011 Mar 27.

A conserved mechanism of DEAD-box ATPase activation by nucleoporins and InsP6 in 
mRNA export.

Montpetit B(1), Thomsen ND, Helmke KJ, Seeliger MA, Berger JM, Weis K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Superfamily 1 and superfamily 2 RNA helicases are ubiquitous
messenger-RNA-protein complex (mRNP) remodelling enzymes that have critical roles
in all aspects of RNA metabolism. The superfamily 2 DEAD-box ATPase Dbp5 (human
DDX19) functions in mRNA export and is thought to remodel mRNPs at the nuclear
pore complex (NPC). Dbp5 is localized to the NPC via an interaction with Nup159
(NUP214 in vertebrates) and is locally activated there by Gle1 together with the 
small-molecule inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP(6)). Local activation of Dbp5 at
the NPC by Gle1 is essential for mRNA export in vivo; however, the mechanistic
role of Dbp5 in mRNP export is poorly understood and it is not known how
Gle1(InsP6) and Nup159 regulate the activity of Dbp5. Here we report, from yeast,
structures of Dbp5 in complex with Gle1(InsP6), Nup159/Gle1(InsP6) and RNA. These
structures reveal that InsP(6) functions as a small-molecule tether for the
Gle1-Dbp5 interaction. Surprisingly, the Gle1(InsP6)-Dbp5 complex is structurally
similar to another DEAD-box ATPase complex essential for translation initiation, 
eIF4G-eIF4A, and we demonstrate that Gle1(InsP6) and eIF4G both activate their
DEAD-box partner by stimulating RNA release. Furthermore, Gle1(InsP6) relieves
Dbp5 autoregulation and cooperates with Nup159 in stabilizing an open Dbp5
intermediate that precludes RNA binding. These findings explain how Gle1(InsP6), 
Nup159 and Dbp5 collaborate in mRNA export and provide a general mechanism for
DEAD-box ATPase regulation by Gle1/eIF4G-like activators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09862 
PMCID: PMC3078754
PMID: 21441902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):243-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09885. Epub 2011 Mar 20.

Structure and mechanism of the uracil transporter UraA.

Lu F(1), Li S, Jiang Y, Jiang J, Fan H, Lu G, Deng D, Dang S, Zhang X, Wang J,
Yan N.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Center for
Structural Biology, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084,
China.

The nucleobase/ascorbate transporter (NAT) proteins, also known as
nucleobase/cation symporter 2 (NCS2) proteins, are responsible for the uptake of 
nucleobases in all kingdoms of life and for the transport of vitamin C in
mammals. Despite functional characterization of the NAT family members in
bacteria, fungi and mammals, detailed structural information remains unavailable.
Here we report the crystal structure of a representative NAT protein, the
Escherichia coli uracil/H(+) symporter UraA, in complex with uracil at a
resolution of 2.8 Å. UraA has a novel structural fold, with 14 transmembrane
segments (TMs) divided into two inverted repeats. A pair of antiparallel
β-strands is located between TM3 and TM10 and has an important role in structural
organization and substrate recognition. The structure is spatially arranged into 
a core domain and a gate domain. Uracil, located at the interface between the two
domains, is coordinated mainly by residues from the core domain. Structural
analysis suggests that alternating access of the substrate may be achieved
through conformational changes of the gate domain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09885 
PMID: 21423164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):234-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09854. Epub 2011 Mar 16.

Structural basis for recognition of centromere histone variant CenH3 by the
chaperone Scm3.

Zhou Z(1), Feng H, Zhou BR, Ghirlando R, Hu K, Zwolak A, Miller Jenkins LM, Xiao 
H, Tjandra N, Wu C, Bai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

The centromere is a unique chromosomal locus that ensures accurate segregation of
chromosomes during cell division by directing the assembly of a multiprotein
complex, the kinetochore. The centromere is marked by a conserved variant of
conventional histone H3 termed CenH3 or CENP-A (ref. 2). A conserved motif of
CenH3, the CATD, defined by loop 1 and helix 2 of the histone fold, is necessary 
and sufficient for specifying centromere functions of CenH3 (refs 3, 4). The
structural basis of this specification is of particular interest. Yeast Scm3 and 
human HJURP are conserved non-histone proteins that interact physically with the 
(CenH3-H4)(2) heterotetramer and are required for the deposition of CenH3 at
centromeres in vivo. Here we have elucidated the structural basis for recognition
of budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) CenH3 (called Cse4) by Scm3. We
solved the structure of the Cse4-binding domain (CBD) of Scm3 in complex with
Cse4 and H4 in a single chain model. An α-helix and an irregular loop at the
conserved amino terminus and a shorter α-helix at the carboxy terminus of
Scm3(CBD) wraps around the Cse4-H4 dimer. Four Cse4-specific residues in the
N-terminal region of helix 2 are sufficient for specific recognition by conserved
and functionally important residues in the N-terminal helix of Scm3 through
formation of a hydrophobic cluster. Scm3(CBD) induces major conformational
changes and sterically occludes DNA-binding sites in the structure of Cse4 and
H4. These findings have implications for the assembly and architecture of the
centromeric nucleosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09854 
PMCID: PMC3077455
PMID: 21412236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):230-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09932. Epub 2011 Mar 13.

Structure of mammalian AMPK and its regulation by ADP.

Xiao B(1), Sanders MJ, Underwood E, Heath R, Mayer FV, Carmena D, Jing C, Walker 
PA, Eccleston JF, Haire LF, Saiu P, Howell SA, Aasland R, Martin SR, Carling D,
Gamblin SJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London
NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):176-7.
    Nature. 2013 Jun 13;498(7453):E8-10.

The heterotrimeric AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has a key role in
regulating cellular energy metabolism; in response to a fall in intracellular ATP
levels it activates energy-producing pathways and inhibits energy-consuming
processes. AMPK has been implicated in a number of diseases related to energy
metabolism including type 2 diabetes, obesity and, most recently, cancer. AMPK is
converted from an inactive form to a catalytically competent form by
phosphorylation of the activation loop within the kinase domain: AMP binding to
the γ-regulatory domain promotes phosphorylation by the upstream kinase, protects
the enzyme against dephosphorylation, as well as causing allosteric activation.
Here we show that ADP binding to just one of the two exchangeable AXP
(AMP/ADP/ATP) binding sites on the regulatory domain protects the enzyme from
dephosphorylation, although it does not lead to allosteric activation. Our
studies show that active mammalian AMPK displays significantly tighter binding to
ADP than to Mg-ATP, explaining how the enzyme is regulated under physiological
conditions where the concentration of Mg-ATP is higher than that of ADP and much 
higher than that of AMP. We have determined the crystal structure of an active
AMPK complex. The structure shows how the activation loop of the kinase domain is
stabilized by the regulatory domain and how the kinase linker region interacts
with the regulatory nucleotide-binding site that mediates protection against
dephosphorylation. From our biochemical and structural data we develop a model
for how the energy status of a cell regulates AMPK activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09932 
PMCID: PMC3078618
PMID: 21399626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09879. Epub 2011 Feb 23.

Recapitulation of premature ageing with iPSCs from Hutchinson-Gilford progeria
syndrome.

Liu GH(1), Barkho BZ, Ruiz S, Diep D, Qu J, Yang SL, Panopoulos AD, Suzuki K,
Kurian L, Walsh C, Thompson J, Boue S, Fung HL, Sancho-Martinez I, Zhang K, Yates
J 3rd, Izpisua Belmonte JC.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is a rare and fatal human premature
ageing disease, characterized by premature arteriosclerosis and degeneration of
vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs). HGPS is caused by a single point mutation in
the lamin A (LMNA) gene, resulting in the generation of progerin, a truncated
splicing mutant of lamin A. Accumulation of progerin leads to various
ageing-associated nuclear defects including disorganization of nuclear lamina and
loss of heterochromatin. Here we report the generation of induced pluripotent
stem cells (iPSCs) from fibroblasts obtained from patients with HGPS. HGPS-iPSCs 
show absence of progerin, and more importantly, lack the nuclear envelope and
epigenetic alterations normally associated with premature ageing. Upon
differentiation of HGPS-iPSCs, progerin and its ageing-associated phenotypic
consequences are restored. Specifically, directed differentiation of HGPS-iPSCs
to SMCs leads to the appearance of premature senescence phenotypes associated
with vascular ageing. Additionally, our studies identify DNA-dependent protein
kinase catalytic subunit (DNAPKcs, also known as PRKDC) as a downstream target of
progerin. The absence of nuclear DNAPK holoenzyme correlates with premature as
well as physiological ageing. Because progerin also accumulates during
physiological ageing, our results provide an in vitro iPSC-based model to study
the pathogenesis of human premature and physiological vascular ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09879 
PMCID: PMC3088088
PMID: 21346760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):191-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09714. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Cortical representations of olfactory input by trans-synaptic tracing.

Miyamichi K(1), Amat F, Moussavi F, Wang C, Wickersham I, Wall NR, Taniguchi H,
Tasic B, Huang ZJ, He Z, Callaway EM, Horowitz MA, Luo L.

Author information: 
(1)HHMI/Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

In the mouse, each class of olfactory receptor neurons expressing a given odorant
receptor has convergent axonal projections to two specific glomeruli in the
olfactory bulb, thereby creating an odour map. However, it is unclear how this
map is represented in the olfactory cortex. Here we combine
rabies-virus-dependent retrograde mono-trans-synaptic labelling with genetics to 
control the location, number and type of 'starter' cortical neurons, from which
we trace their presynaptic neurons. We find that individual cortical neurons
receive input from multiple mitral cells representing broadly distributed
glomeruli. Different cortical areas represent the olfactory bulb input
differently. For example, the cortical amygdala preferentially receives dorsal
olfactory bulb input, whereas the piriform cortex samples the whole olfactory
bulb without obvious bias. These differences probably reflect different functions
of these cortical areas in mediating innate odour preference or associative
memory. The trans-synaptic labelling method described here should be widely
applicable to mapping connections throughout the mouse nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09714 
PMCID: PMC3073090
PMID: 21179085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09848.

Dampening of death pathways by schnurri-2 is essential for T-cell development.

Staton TL(1), Lazarevic V, Jones DC, Lanser AJ, Takagi T, Ishii S, Glimcher LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard School of Public
Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Generation of a diverse and self-tolerant T-cell repertoire requires appropriate 
interpretation of T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) signals by CD4(+ ) CD8(+)
double-positive thymocytes. Thymocyte cell fate is dictated by the nature of
TCR-major-histocompatibility-complex (MHC)-peptide interactions, with signals of 
higher strength leading to death (negative selection) and signals of intermediate
strength leading to differentiation (positive selection). Molecules that regulate
T-cell development by modulating TCR signal strength have been described but
components that specifically define the boundaries between positive and negative 
selection remain unknown. Here we show in mice that repression of TCR-induced
death pathways is critical for proper interpretation of positive selecting
signals in vivo, and identify schnurri-2 (Shn2; also known as Hivep2) as a
crucial death dampener. Our results indicate that Shn2(-/-) double-positive
thymocytes inappropriately undergo negative selection in response to positive
selecting signals, thus leading to disrupted T-cell development. Shn2(-/-)
double-positive thymocytes are more sensitive to TCR-induced death in vitro and
die in response to positive selection interactions in vivo. However,
Shn2-deficient thymocytes can be positively selected when TCR-induced death is
genetically ablated. Shn2 levels increase after TCR stimulation, indicating that 
integration of multiple TCR-MHC-peptide interactions may fine-tune the death
threshold. Mechanistically, Shn2 functions downstream of TCR proximal signalling 
compenents to dampen Bax activation and the mitochondrial death pathway. Our
findings uncover a critical regulator of T-cell development that controls the
balance between death and differentiation.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09848 
PMCID: PMC3077958
PMID: 21475200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09904.

Biodiversity improves water quality through niche partitioning.

Cardinale BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Michigan, School of Natural Resources & Environment, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan 48109-1041, USA. bradcard@umich.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):45-6.
    Nature. 2011 Sep 29;477(7366):E3; discussion E3-4.

Excessive nutrient loading of water bodies is a leading cause of water pollution 
worldwide, and controlling nutrient levels in watersheds is a primary objective
of most environmental policy. Over the past two decades, much research has shown 
that ecosystems with more species are more efficient at removing nutrients from
soil and water than are ecosystems with fewer species. This has led some to
suggest that conservation of biodiversity might be a useful tool for managing
nutrient uptake and storage, but this suggestion has been controversial, in part 
because the specific biological mechanisms by which species diversity influences 
nutrient uptake have not been identified. Here I use a model system of stream
biofilms to show that niche partitioning among species of algae can increase the 
uptake and storage of nitrate, a nutrient pollutant of global concern. I
manipulated the number of species of algae growing in the biofilms of 150 stream 
mesocosms that had been set up to mimic the variety of flow habitats and
disturbance regimes that are typical of natural streams. Nitrogen uptake rates,
as measured by using (15)N-labelled nitrate, increased linearly with species
richness and were driven by niche differences among species. As different forms
of algae came to dominate each unique habitat in a stream, the more diverse
communities achieved a higher biomass and greater (15)N uptake. When these niche 
opportunities were experimentally removed by making all of the habitats in a
stream uniform, diversity did not influence nitrogen uptake, and biofilms
collapsed to a single dominant species. These results provide direct evidence
that communities with more species take greater advantage of the niche
opportunities in an environment, and this allows diverse systems to capture a
greater proportion of biologically available resources such as nitrogen. One
implication is that biodiversity may help to buffer natural ecosystems against
the ecological impacts of nutrient pollution.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09904 
PMID: 21475199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):79-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09926.

Evidence for mechanical coupling and strong Indian lower crust beneath southern
Tibet.

Copley A(1), Avouac JP, Wernicke BP.

Author information: 
(1)Tectonics Observatory, Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
acc41@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):48-9.

How surface deformation within mountain ranges relates to tectonic processes at
depth is not well understood. The upper crust of the Tibetan Plateau is generally
thought to be poorly coupled to the underthrusting Indian crust because of an
intervening low-viscosity channel. Here, however, we show that the contrast in
tectonic regime between primarily strike-slip faulting in northern Tibet and
dominantly normal faulting in southern Tibet requires mechanical coupling between
the upper crust of southern Tibet and the underthrusting Indian crust. Such
coupling is inconsistent with the presence of active 'channel flow' beneath
southern Tibet, and suggests that the Indian crust retains its strength as it
underthrusts the plateau. These results shed new light on the debates regarding
the mechanical properties of the continental lithosphere, and the deformation of 
Tibet.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09926 
PMID: 21475198 


644. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):74-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09979.

High-frequency, scaled graphene transistors on diamond-like carbon.

Wu Y(1), Lin YM, Bol AA, Jenkins KA, Xia F, Farmer DB, Zhu Y, Avouris P.

Author information: 
(1)IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):41-2.

Owing to its high carrier mobility and saturation velocity, graphene has
attracted enormous attention in recent years. In particular, high-performance
graphene transistors for radio-frequency (r.f.) applications are of great
interest. Synthesis of large-scale graphene sheets of high quality and at low
cost has been demonstrated using chemical vapour deposition (CVD) methods.
However, very few studies have been performed on the scaling behaviour of
transistors made from CVD graphene for r.f. applications, which hold great
potential for commercialization. Here we report the systematic study of top-gated
CVD-graphene r.f. transistors with gate lengths scaled down to 40 nm, the
shortest gate length demonstrated on graphene r.f. devices. The CVD graphene was 
grown on copper film and transferred to a wafer of diamond-like carbon. Cut-off
frequencies as high as 155 GHz have been obtained for the 40-nm transistors, and 
the cut-off frequency was found to scale as 1/(gate length). Furthermore, we
studied graphene r.f. transistors at cryogenic temperatures. Unlike conventional 
semiconductor devices where low-temperature performance is hampered by carrier
freeze-out effects, the r.f. performance of our graphene devices exhibits little 
temperature dependence down to 4.3 K, providing a much larger operation window
than is available for conventional devices.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09979 
PMID: 21475197 


645. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):64-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09967.

Streptococcal M1 protein constructs a pathological host fibrinogen network.

Macheboeuf P(1), Buffalo C, Fu CY, Zinkernagel AS, Cole JN, Johnson JE, Nizet V, 
Ghosh P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

M1 protein, a major virulence factor of the leading invasive strain of group A
Streptococcus, is sufficient to induce toxic-shock-like vascular leakage and
tissue injury. These events are triggered by the formation of a complex between
M1 and fibrinogen that, unlike M1 or fibrinogen alone, leads to neutrophil
activation. Here we provide a structural explanation for the pathological
properties of the complex formed between streptococcal M1 and human fibrinogen. A
conformationally dynamic coiled-coil dimer of M1 was found to organize four
fibrinogen molecules into a specific cross-like pattern. This pattern supported
the construction of a supramolecular network that was required for neutrophil
activation but was distinct from a fibrin clot. Disruption of this network into
other supramolecular assemblies was not tolerated. These results have bearing on 
the pathophysiology of streptococcal toxic shock.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09967 
PMCID: PMC3268815
PMID: 21475196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):57-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09922.

Gut flora metabolism of phosphatidylcholine promotes cardiovascular disease.

Wang Z(1), Klipfell E, Bennett BJ, Koeth R, Levison BS, Dugar B, Feldstein AE,
Britt EB, Fu X, Chung YM, Wu Y, Schauer P, Smith JD, Allayee H, Tang WH, DiDonato
JA, Lusis AJ, Hazen SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2011 Aug 1;4(4):463-4.
    Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):40-1.
    Nature. 2011 Sep 8;477(7363):162.

Metabolomics studies hold promise for the discovery of pathways linked to disease
processes. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) represents the leading cause of death and
morbidity worldwide. Here we used a metabolomics approach to generate unbiased
small-molecule metabolic profiles in plasma that predict risk for CVD. Three
metabolites of the dietary lipid phosphatidylcholine--choline, trimethylamine
N-oxide (TMAO) and betaine--were identified and then shown to predict risk for
CVD in an independent large clinical cohort. Dietary supplementation of mice with
choline, TMAO or betaine promoted upregulation of multiple macrophage scavenger
receptors linked to atherosclerosis, and supplementation with choline or TMAO
promoted atherosclerosis. Studies using germ-free mice confirmed a critical role 
for dietary choline and gut flora in TMAO production, augmented macrophage
cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation. Suppression of intestinal
microflora in atherosclerosis-prone mice inhibited dietary-choline-enhanced
atherosclerosis. Genetic variations controlling expression of flavin
monooxygenases, an enzymatic source of TMAO, segregated with atherosclerosis in
hyperlipidaemic mice. Discovery of a relationship between gut-flora-dependent
metabolism of dietary phosphatidylcholine and CVD pathogenesis provides
opportunities for the development of new diagnostic tests and therapeutic
approaches for atherosclerotic heart disease.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09922 
PMCID: PMC3086762
PMID: 21475195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):51-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09941.

Self-organizing optic-cup morphogenesis in three-dimensional culture.

Eiraku M(1), Takata N, Ishibashi H, Kawada M, Sakakura E, Okuda S, Sekiguchi K,
Adachi T, Sasai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Organogenesis and Neurogenesis Group, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology, 
Kobe 650-0047, Japan. eiraku@cdb.riken.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):42-3.

Balanced organogenesis requires the orchestration of multiple cellular
interactions to create the collective cell behaviours that progressively shape
developing tissues. It is currently unclear how individual, localized parts are
able to coordinate with each other to develop a whole organ shape. Here we report
the dynamic, autonomous formation of the optic cup (retinal primordium) structure
from a three-dimensional culture of mouse embryonic stem cell aggregates.
Embryonic-stem-cell-derived retinal epithelium spontaneously formed hemispherical
epithelial vesicles that became patterned along their proximal-distal axis.
Whereas the proximal portion differentiated into mechanically rigid pigment
epithelium, the flexible distal portion progressively folded inward to form a
shape reminiscent of the embryonic optic cup, exhibited interkinetic nuclear
migration and generated stratified neural retinal tissue, as seen in vivo. We
demonstrate that optic-cup morphogenesis in this simple cell culture depends on
an intrinsic self-organizing program involving stepwise and domain-specific
regulation of local epithelial properties.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09941 
PMID: 21475194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):95-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09822. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Molecular regulation of sexual preference revealed by genetic studies of 5-HT in 
the brains of male mice.

Liu Y(1), Jiang Y, Si Y, Kim JY, Chen ZF, Rao Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China.

Although the question of to whom a male directs his mating attempts is a critical
one in social interactions, little is known about the molecular and cellular
mechanisms controlling mammalian sexual preference. Here we report that the
neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is required for male sexual
preference. Wild-type male mice preferred females over males, but males lacking
central serotonergic neurons lost sexual preference although they were not
generally defective in olfaction or in pheromone sensing. A role for 5-HT was
demonstrated by the phenotype of mice lacking tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (Tph2),
which is required for the first step of 5-HT synthesis in the brain. Thirty-five 
minutes after the injection of the intermediate 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP),
which circumvented Tph2 to restore 5-HT to the wild-type level, adult Tph2
knockout mice also preferred females over males. These results indicate that 5-HT
and serotonergic neurons in the adult brain regulate mammalian sexual preference.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09822 
PMCID: PMC4094133
PMID: 21441904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09927. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Low strength of deep San Andreas fault gouge from SAFOD core.

Lockner DA(1), Morrow C, Moore D, Hickman S.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA. dlockner@usgs.gov

The San Andreas fault accommodates 28-34 mm yr(-1) of right lateral motion of the
Pacific crustal plate northwestward past the North American plate. In California,
the fault is composed of two distinct locked segments that have produced great
earthquakes in historical times, separated by a 150-km-long creeping zone. The
San Andreas Fault Observatory at Depth (SAFOD) is a scientific borehole located
northwest of Parkfield, California, near the southern end of the creeping zone.
Core was recovered from across the actively deforming San Andreas fault at a
vertical depth of 2.7 km (ref. 1). Here we report laboratory strength
measurements of these fault core materials at in situ conditions, demonstrating
that at this locality and this depth the San Andreas fault is profoundly weak
(coefficient of friction, 0.15) owing to the presence of the smectite clay
mineral saponite, which is one of the weakest phyllosilicates known. This Mg-rich
clay is the low-temperature product of metasomatic reactions between the
quartzofeldspathic wall rocks and serpentinite blocks in the fault. These
findings provide strong evidence that deformation of the mechanically unusual
creeping portions of the San Andreas fault system is controlled by the presence
of weak minerals rather than by high fluid pressure or other proposed mechanisms.
The combination of these measurements of fault core strength with borehole
observations yields a self-consistent picture of the stress state of the San
Andreas fault at the SAFOD site, in which the fault is intrinsically weak in an
otherwise strong crust.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09927 
PMID: 21441903 


650. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09819. Epub 2011 Mar 20.

A long noncoding RNA maintains active chromatin to coordinate homeotic gene
expression.

Wang KC(1), Yang YW, Liu B, Sanyal A, Corces-Zimmerman R, Chen Y, Lajoie BR,
Protacio A, Flynn RA, Gupta RA, Wysocka J, Lei M, Dekker J, Helms JA, Chang HY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 May;12(5):300.

The genome is extensively transcribed into long intergenic noncoding RNAs
(lincRNAs), many of which are implicated in gene silencing. Potential roles of
lincRNAs in gene activation are much less understood. Development and homeostasis
require coordinate regulation of neighbouring genes through a process termed
locus control. Some locus control elements and enhancers transcribe lincRNAs,
hinting at possible roles in long-range control. In vertebrates, 39 Hox genes,
encoding homeodomain transcription factors critical for positional identity, are 
clustered in four chromosomal loci; the Hox genes are expressed in nested
anterior-posterior and proximal-distal patterns colinear with their genomic
position from 3' to 5'of the cluster. Here we identify HOTTIP, a lincRNA
transcribed from the 5' tip of the HOXA locus that coordinates the activation of 
several 5' HOXA genes in vivo. Chromosomal looping brings HOTTIP into close
proximity to its target genes. HOTTIP RNA binds the adaptor protein WDR5 directly
and targets WDR5/MLL complexes across HOXA, driving histone H3 lysine 4
trimethylation and gene transcription. Induced proximity is necessary and
sufficient for HOTTIP RNA activation of its target genes. Thus, by serving as key
intermediates that transmit information from higher order chromosomal looping
into chromatin modifications, lincRNAs may organize chromatin domains to
coordinate long-range gene activation.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09819 
PMCID: PMC3670758
PMID: 21423168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):100-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09823. Epub 2011 Mar 20.

Local, persistent activation of Rho GTPases during plasticity of single dendritic
spines.

Murakoshi H(1), Wang H, Yasuda R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA.

The Rho family of GTPases have important roles in the morphogenesis of the
dendritic spines of neurons in the brain and synaptic plasticity by modulating
the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. Here we used two-photon fluorescence 
lifetime imaging microscopy to monitor the activity of two Rho GTPases-RhoA and
Cdc42-in single dendritic spines undergoing structural plasticity associated with
long-term potentiation in CA1 pyramidal neurons in cultured slices of rat
hippocampus. When long-term volume increase was induced in a single spine using
two-photon glutamate uncaging, RhoA and Cdc42 were rapidly activated in the
stimulated spine. These activities decayed over about five minutes, and were then
followed by a phase of persistent activation lasting more than half an hour.
Although active RhoA and Cdc42 were similarly mobile, their activity patterns
were different. RhoA activation diffused out of the stimulated spine and spread
over about 5 µm along the dendrite. In contrast, Cdc42 activation was restricted 
to the stimulated spine, and exhibited a steep gradient at the spine necks.
Inhibition of the Rho-Rock pathway preferentially inhibited the initial spine
growth, whereas the inhibition of the Cdc42-Pak pathway blocked the maintenance
of sustained structural plasticity. RhoA and Cdc42 activation depended on
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase (CaMKII). Thus, RhoA and Cdc42 relay transient
CaMKII activation to synapse-specific, long-term signalling required for spine
structural plasticity.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09823 
PMCID: PMC3105377
PMID: 21423166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):69-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09933. Epub 2011 Mar 16.

Electromagnetically induced transparency and slow light with optomechanics.

Safavi-Naeini AH(1), Mayer Alegre TP, Chan J, Eichenfield M, Winger M, Lin Q,
Hill JT, Chang DE, Painter O.

Author information: 
(1)Thomas J. Watson Sr Laboratory of Applied Physics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Controlling the interaction between localized optical and mechanical excitations 
has recently become possible following advances in micro- and nanofabrication
techniques. So far, most experimental studies of optomechanics have focused on
measurement and control of the mechanical subsystem through its interaction with 
optics, and have led to the experimental demonstration of dynamical back-action
cooling and optical rigidity of the mechanical system. Conversely, the optical
response of these systems is also modified in the presence of mechanical
interactions, leading to effects such as electromagnetically induced transparency
(EIT) and parametric normal-mode splitting. In atomic systems, studies of slow
and stopped light (applicable to modern optical networks and future quantum
networks) have thrust EIT to the forefront of experimental study during the past 
two decades. Here we demonstrate EIT and tunable optical delays in a nanoscale
optomechanical crystal, using the optomechanical nonlinearity to control the
velocity of light by way of engineered photon-phonon interactions. Our device is 
fabricated by simply etching holes into a thin film of silicon. At low
temperature (8.7 kelvin), we report an optically tunable delay of 50 nanoseconds 
with near-unity optical transparency, and superluminal light with a 1.4
microsecond signal advance. These results, while indicating significant progress 
towards an integrated quantum optomechanical memory, are also relevant to
classical signal processing applications. Measurements at room temperature in the
analogous regime of electromagnetically induced absorption show the utility of
these chip-scale optomechanical systems for optical buffering, amplification, and
filtering of microwave-over-optical signals.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09933 
PMID: 21412237 


653. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09807. Epub 2011 Mar 13.

Tumour evolution inferred by single-cell sequencing.

Navin N(1), Kendall J, Troge J, Andrews P, Rodgers L, McIndoo J, Cook K,
Stepansky A, Levy D, Esposito D, Muthuswamy L, Krasnitz A, McCombie WR, Hicks J, 
Wigler M.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 May;11(5):312.

Genomic analysis provides insights into the role of copy number variation in
disease, but most methods are not designed to resolve mixed populations of cells.
In tumours, where genetic heterogeneity is common, very important information may
be lost that would be useful for reconstructing evolutionary history. Here we
show that with flow-sorted nuclei, whole genome amplification and next generation
sequencing we can accurately quantify genomic copy number within an individual
nucleus. We apply single-nucleus sequencing to investigate tumour population
structure and evolution in two human breast cancer cases. Analysis of 100 single 
cells from a polygenomic tumour revealed three distinct clonal subpopulations
that probably represent sequential clonal expansions. Additional analysis of 100 
single cells from a monogenomic primary tumour and its liver metastasis indicated
that a single clonal expansion formed the primary tumour and seeded the
metastasis. In both primary tumours, we also identified an unexpectedly abundant 
subpopulation of genetically diverse 'pseudodiploid' cells that do not travel to 
the metastatic site. In contrast to gradual models of tumour progression, our
data indicate that tumours grow by punctuated clonal expansions with few
persistent intermediates.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09807 
PMCID: PMC4504184
PMID: 21399628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09861. Epub 2011 Mar 13.

An siRNA pathway prevents transgenerational retrotransposition in plants
subjected to stress.

Ito H(1), Gaubert H, Bucher E, Mirouze M, Vaillant I, Paszkowski J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, University of Geneva, Sciences III, 30 Quai
Ernest-Ansermet, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Eukaryotic genomes consist to a significant extent of retrotransposons that are
suppressed by host epigenetic mechanisms, preventing their uncontrolled
propagation. However, it is not clear how this is achieved. Here we show that in 
Arabidopsis seedlings subjected to heat stress, a copia-type retrotransposon
named ONSEN (Japanese 'hot spring') not only became transcriptionally active but 
also synthesized extrachromosomal DNA copies. Heat-induced ONSEN accumulation was
stimulated in mutants impaired in the biogenesis of small interfering RNAs
(siRNAs); however, there was no evidence of transposition occurring in vegetative
tissues. After stress, both ONSEN transcripts and extrachromosomal DNA gradually 
decayed and were no longer detected after 20-30 days. Surprisingly, a high
frequency of new ONSEN insertions was observed in the progeny of stressed plants 
deficient in siRNAs. Insertion patterns revealed that this transgenerational
retrotransposition occurred during flower development and before gametogenesis.
Therefore in plants with compromised siRNA biogenesis, memory of stress was
maintained throughout development, priming ONSEN to transpose during
differentiation of generative organs. Retrotransposition was not observed in the 
progeny of wild-type plants subjected to stress or in non-stressed mutant
controls, pointing to a crucial role of the siRNA pathway in restricting
retrotransposition triggered by environmental stress. Finally, we found that
natural and experimentally induced variants in ONSEN insertions confer heat
responsiveness to nearby genes, and therefore mobility bursts may generate novel,
stress-responsive regulatory gene networks.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature09861 
PMID: 21399627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 2011 Apr 7;472(7341):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09851. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

Hedgehog/Wnt feedback supports regenerative proliferation of epithelial stem
cells in bladder.

Shin K(1), Lee J, Guo N, Kim J, Lim A, Qu L, Mysorekar IU, Beachy PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Institute for Stem Cell Biology and
Regenerative Medicine, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA. kunyoos@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2012 Jun;61(6):1263-4.

Epithelial integrity in metazoan organs is maintained through the regulated
proliferation and differentiation of organ-specific stem and progenitor cells.
Although the epithelia of organs such as the intestine regenerate constantly and 
thus remain continuously proliferative, other organs, such as the mammalian
urinary bladder, shift from near-quiescence to a highly proliferative state in
response to epithelial injury. The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying
this injury-induced mode of regenerative response are poorly defined. Here we
show in mice that the proliferative response to bacterial infection or chemical
injury within the bladder is regulated by signal feedback between basal cells of 
the urothelium and the stromal cells that underlie them. We demonstrate that
these basal cells include stem cells capable of regenerating all cell types
within the urothelium, and are marked by expression of the secreted protein
signal Sonic hedgehog (Shh). On injury, Shh expression in these basal cells
increases and elicits increased stromal expression of Wnt protein signals, which 
in turn stimulate the proliferation of both urothelial and stromal cells. The
heightened activity of this signal feedback circuit and the associated increase
in cell proliferation appear to be required for restoration of urothelial
function and, in the case of bacterial injury, may help clear and prevent further
spread of infection. Our findings provide a conceptual framework for
injury-induced epithelial regeneration in endodermal organs, and may provide a
basis for understanding the roles of signalling pathways in cancer growth and
metastasis.

©2011 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved


PMCID: PMC3676169
PMID: 21389986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):647-50. doi: 10.1038/nature09918.

The complete biosynthesis of the genetically encoded amino acid pyrrolysine from 
lysine.

Gaston MA(1), Zhang L, Green-Church KB, Krzycki JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, 484 West 12th Avenue, Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):583-4.

Pyrrolysine, the twenty-second amino acid found to be encoded in the natural
genetic code, is necessary for all of the known pathways by which methane is
formed from methylamines. Pyrrolysine comprises a methylated pyrroline
carboxylate in amide linkage to the ε-amino group of L-lysine. In certain
Archaea, three methyltransferases initiate methanogenesis from the various
methylamines, and these enzymes are encoded by genes with an in-frame amber codon
that is translated as pyrrolysine. Escherichia coli that has been transformed
with the pylTSBCD genes from methanogenic Archaea can incorporate endogenously
biosynthesized pyrrolysine into proteins. The decoding of UAG as pyrrolysine
requires pylT, which produces tRNA(Pyl) (also called tRNA(CUA)), and pylS, which 
encodes a pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase. The pylB, pylC and pylD genes are each
required for tRNA-independent pyrrolysine synthesis. Pyrrolysine is the last
remaining genetically encoded amino acid with an unknown biosynthetic pathway.
Here we provide genetic and mass spectrometric evidence for a pylBCD-dependent
pathway in which pyrrolysine arises from two lysines. We show that a newly
uncovered UAG-encoded amino acid, desmethylpyrrolysine, is made from lysine and
exogenous D-ornithine in a pylC-dependent process followed by a pylD-dependent
process, but it is not further converted to pyrrolysine. These results indicate
that the radical S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) protein PylB mediates a lysine
mutase reaction that produces 3-methylornithine, which is then ligated to a
second molecule of lysine by PylC before oxidation by PylD results in
pyrrolysine. The discovery of lysine as the sole precursor to pyrrolysine will
further inform discussions of the evolution of the genetic code and amino acid
biosynthetic pathways. Furthermore, intermediates of the pathway may provide new 
avenues by which the pyl system can be exploited to produce recombinant proteins 
with useful modified residues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09918 
PMCID: PMC3070376
PMID: 21455182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):637-41. doi: 10.1038/nature09814.

SHARPIN forms a linear ubiquitin ligase complex regulating NF-κB activity and
apoptosis.

Ikeda F(1), Deribe YL, Skånland SS, Stieglitz B, Grabbe C, Franz-Wachtel M, van
Wijk SJ, Goswami P, Nagy V, Terzic J, Tokunaga F, Androulidaki A, Nakagawa T,
Pasparakis M, Iwai K, Sundberg JP, Schaefer L, Rittinger K, Macek B, Dikic I.

Author information: 
(1)Frankfurt Institute for Molecular Life Sciences and Institute of Biochemistry 
II, Goethe University School of Medicine, Theodor-Stern-Kai 7, D-60590 Frankfurt,
Main, Germany.

SHARPIN is a ubiquitin-binding and ubiquitin-like-domain-containing protein
which, when mutated in mice, results in immune system disorders and multi-organ
inflammation. Here we report that SHARPIN functions as a novel component of the
linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC) and that the absence of SHARPIN
causes dysregulation of NF-κB and apoptotic signalling pathways, explaining the
severe phenotypes displayed by chronic proliferative dermatitis (cpdm) in
SHARPIN-deficient mice. Upon binding to the LUBAC subunit HOIP (also known as
RNF31), SHARPIN stimulates the formation of linear ubiquitin chains in vitro and 
in vivo. Coexpression of SHARPIN and HOIP promotes linear ubiquitination of NEMO 
(also known as IKBKG), an adaptor of the IκB kinases (IKKs) and subsequent
activation of NF-κB signalling, whereas SHARPIN deficiency in mice causes an
impaired activation of the IKK complex and NF-κB in B cells, macrophages and
mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). This effect is further enhanced upon
concurrent downregulation of HOIL-1L (also known as RBCK1), another HOIP-binding 
component of LUBAC. In addition, SHARPIN deficiency leads to rapid cell death
upon tumour-necrosis factor α (TNF-α) stimulation via FADD- and
caspase-8-dependent pathways. SHARPIN thus activates NF-κB and inhibits apoptosis
via distinct pathways in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09814 
PMCID: PMC3085511
PMID: 21455181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):633-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09815.

SHARPIN is a component of the NF-κB-activating linear ubiquitin chain assembly
complex.

Tokunaga F(1), Nakagawa T, Nakahara M, Saeki Y, Taniguchi M, Sakata S, Tanaka K, 
Nakano H, Iwai K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka 
University, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Cpdm (chronic proliferative dermatitis) mice develop chronic dermatitis and an
immunodeficiency with increased serum IgM, symptoms that resemble those of
patients with X-linked hyper-IgM syndrome and hypohydrotic ectodermal dysplasia
(XHM-ED), which is caused by mutations in NEMO (NF-κB essential modulator; also
known as IKBKG). Spontaneous null mutations in the Sharpin (SHANK-associated RH
domain interacting protein in postsynaptic density) gene are responsible for the 
cpdm phenotype in mice. SHARPIN shows significant similarity to HOIL-1L (also
known as RBCK1), a component of linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC), 
which induces NF-κB activation through conjugation of linear polyubiquitin chains
to NEMO. Here, we identify SHARPIN as an additional component of LUBAC.
SHARPIN-containing complexes can linearly ubiquitinate NEMO and activated NF-κB. 
Thus, we re-define LUBAC as a complex containing SHARPIN, HOIL-1L, and HOIP (also
known as RNF31). Deletion of SHARPIN drastically reduced the amount of LUBAC,
which resulted in attenuated TNF-α- and CD40-mediated activation of NF-κB in
mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) or B cells from cpdm mice. Considering the
pleomorphic phenotype of cpdm mice, these results confirm the predicted role of
LUBAC-mediated linear polyubiquitination in NF-κB activation induced by various
stimuli, and strongly suggest the involvement of LUBAC-induced NF-κB activation
in various disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09815 
PMID: 21455180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):629-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09863.

Cross-dressed dendritic cells drive memory CD8+ T-cell activation after viral
infection.

Wakim LM(1), Bevan MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Washington, Box 357370, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):581-2.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 May;11(5):302-3.

After an infection, cytotoxic T lymphocyte precursors proliferate and become
effector cells by recognizing foreign peptides in the groove of major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules expressed by
antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Professional APCs specialized for T-cell
activation acquire viral antigen either by becoming infected themselves (direct
presentation) or by phagocytosis of infected cells, followed by transfer of
antigen to the cytosol, processing and MHC class I loading in a process referred 
to as cross-presentation. An alternative way, referred to as 'cross-dressing', by
which an uninfected APC could present antigen was postulated to be by the
transfer of preformed peptide-MHC complexes from the surface of an infected cell 
to the APC without the need of further processing. Here we show that this
mechanism exists and boosts the antiviral response of mouse memory CD8(+) T
cells. A number of publications have demonstrated sharing of peptide-loaded MHC
molecules in vitro. Our in vitro experiments demonstrate that cross-dressing APCs
do not acquire peptide-MHC complexes in the form of exosomes released by donor
cells. Rather, the APCs and donor cells have to contact each other for the
transfer to occur. After a viral infection, we could isolate cross-dressed APCs
able to present viral antigen in vitro. Furthermore, using the diphtheria toxin
system to selectively eliminate APCs that could only acquire viral peptide-MHC
complexes by cross-dressing, we show that such presentation can promote the
expansion of resting memory T cells. Notably, naive T cells were excluded from
taking part in the response. Cross-dressing is a mechanism of antigen
presentation used by dendritic cells that may have a significant role in
activating previously primed CD8(+) T cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09863 
PMCID: PMC3423191
PMID: 21455179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):625-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09811.

A eudicot from the Early Cretaceous of China.

Sun G(1), Dilcher DL, Wang H, Chen Z.

Author information: 
(1)Paleontological Institute of Shenyang Normal University, Shenyang 110034,
China. sunge@synu.edu.cn

The current molecular systematics of angiosperms recognizes the basal angiosperms
and five major angiosperm lineages: the Chloranthaceae, the magnoliids, the
monocots, Ceratophyllum and the eudicots, which consist of the basal eudicots and
the core eudicots. The eudicots form the majority of the angiosperms in the world
today. The flowering plants are of exceptional evolutionary interest because of
their diversity of over 250,000 species and their abundance as the dominant
vegetation in most terrestrial ecosystems, but little is known of their very
early history. In this report we document an early presence of eudicots during
the Early Cretaceous Period. Diagnostic characters of the eudicot fossil
Leefructus gen. nov. include simple and deeply trilobate leaves clustered at the 
nodes in threes or fours, basal palinactinodromous primary venation, pinnate
secondary venation, and a long axillary reproductive axis terminating in a
flattened receptacle bearing five long, narrow pseudo-syncarpous carpels. These
morphological characters suggest that its affinities are with the Ranunculaceae, 
a basal eudicot family. The fossil co-occurs with Archaefructus sinensis and
Hyrcantha decussata whereas Archaefructus liaoningensis comes from more ancient
sediments. Multiple radiometric dates of the Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation
place the bed yielding this fossil at 122.6-125.8 million years old. The earliest
fossil records of eudicots are 127 to 125 million years old, on the basis of
pollen. Thus, Leefructus gen. nov. suggests that the basal eudicots were already 
present and diverse by the latest Barremian and earliest Aptian.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09811 
PMID: 21455178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):621-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09924.

Winter cold of eastern continental boundaries induced by warm ocean waters.

Kaspi Y(1), Schneider T.

Author information: 
(1)California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
yohai@alum.mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):584-6.

In winter, northeastern North America and northeastern Asia are both colder than 
other regions at similar latitudes. This has been attributed to the effects of
stationary weather systems set by elevated terrain (orography), and to a lack of 
maritime influences from the prevailing westerly winds. However, the differences 
in extent and orography between the two continents suggest that further
mechanisms are involved. Here we show that this anomalous winter cold can result 
in part from westward radiation of large-scale atmospheric waves--nearly
stationary Rossby waves--generated by heating of the atmosphere over warm ocean
waters. We demonstrate this mechanism using simulations with an idealized general
circulation model, with which we show that the extent of the cold region is
controlled by properties of Rossby waves, such as their group velocity and its
dependence on the planetary rotation rate. Our results show that warm ocean
waters contribute to the contrast in mid-latitude winter temperatures between
eastern and western continental boundaries not only by warming western
boundaries, but also by cooling eastern boundaries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09924 
PMID: 21455177 


662. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):612-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09910.

Magnetic and non-magnetic phases of a quantum spin liquid.

Pratt FL(1), Baker PJ, Blundell SJ, Lancaster T, Ohira-Kawamura S, Baines C,
Shimizu Y, Kanoda K, Watanabe I, Saito G.

Author information: 
(1)ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton OX11 0QX, UK.
francis.pratt@stfc.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):587-8.

A quantum spin-liquid phase is an intriguing possibility for a system of strongly
interacting magnetic units in which the usual magnetically ordered ground state
is avoided owing to strong quantum fluctuations. It was first predicted
theoretically for a triangular-lattice model with antiferromagnetically coupled S
= 1/2 spins. Recently, materials have become available showing persuasive
experimental evidence for such a state. Although many studies show that the ideal
triangular lattice of S = 1/2 Heisenberg spins actually orders magnetically into 
a three-sublattice, non-collinear 120° arrangement, quantum fluctuations
significantly reduce the size of the ordered moment. This residual ordering can
be completely suppressed when higher-order ring-exchange magnetic interactions
are significant, as found in nearly metallic Mott insulators. The layered
molecular system κ-(BEDT-TTF)(2)Cu(2)(CN)(3) is a Mott insulator with an almost
isotropic, triangular magnetic lattice of spin-1/2 BEDT-TTF dimers that provides 
a prime example of a spin liquid formed in this way. Despite a high-temperature
exchange coupling, J, of 250 K (ref. 6), no obvious signature of conventional
magnetic ordering is seen down to 20 mK (refs 7, 8). Here we show, using muon
spin rotation, that applying a small magnetic field to this system produces a
quantum phase transition between the spin-liquid phase and an antiferromagnetic
phase with a strongly suppressed moment. This can be described as Bose-Einstein
condensation of spin excitations with an extremely small spin gap. At higher
fields, a second transition is found that suggests a threshold for deconfinement 
of the spin excitations. Our studies reveal the low-temperature magnetic phase
diagram and enable us to measure characteristic critical properties. We compare
our results closely with current theoretical models, and this gives some further 
insight into the nature of the spin-liquid phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09910 
PMID: 21455176 


663. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09935.

Gravity modes as a way to distinguish between hydrogen- and helium-burning red
giant stars.

Bedding TR(1), Mosser B, Huber D, Montalbán J, Beck P, Christensen-Dalsgaard J,
Elsworth YP, García RA, Miglio A, Stello D, White TR, De Ridder J, Hekker S,
Aerts C, Barban C, Belkacem K, Broomhall AM, Brown TM, Buzasi DL, Carrier F,
Chaplin WJ, Di Mauro MP, Dupret MA, Frandsen S, Gilliland RL, Goupil MJ, Jenkins 
JM, Kallinger T, Kawaler S, Kjeldsen H, Mathur S, Noels A, Aguirre VS, Ventura P.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Institute for Astronomy, School of Physics, University of Sydney, New
South Wales 2006, Australia. t.bedding@physics.usyd.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):580-1.

Red giants are evolved stars that have exhausted the supply of hydrogen in their 
cores and instead burn hydrogen in a surrounding shell. Once a red giant is
sufficiently evolved, the helium in the core also undergoes fusion. Outstanding
issues in our understanding of red giants include uncertainties in the amount of 
mass lost at the surface before helium ignition and the amount of internal mixing
from rotation and other processes. Progress is hampered by our inability to
distinguish between red giants burning helium in the core and those still only
burning hydrogen in a shell. Asteroseismology offers a way forward, being a
powerful tool for probing the internal structures of stars using their natural
oscillation frequencies. Here we report observations of gravity-mode period
spacings in red giants that permit a distinction between evolutionary stages to
be made. We use high-precision photometry obtained by the Kepler spacecraft over 
more than a year to measure oscillations in several hundred red giants. We find
many stars whose dipole modes show sequences with approximately regular period
spacings. These stars fall into two clear groups, allowing us to distinguish
unambiguously between hydrogen-shell-burning stars (period spacing mostly ∼ 50
seconds) and those that are also burning helium (period spacing ∼ 100 to 300
seconds).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09935 
PMID: 21455175 


664. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):602-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09886.

CRISPR RNA maturation by trans-encoded small RNA and host factor RNase III.

Deltcheva E(1), Chylinski K, Sharma CM, Gonzales K, Chao Y, Pirzada ZA, Eckert
MR, Vogel J, Charpentier E.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory for Molecular Infection Medicine Sweden, Umeå, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):588-9.

CRISPR/Cas systems constitute a widespread class of immunity systems that protect
bacteria and archaea against phages and plasmids, and commonly use
repeat/spacer-derived short crRNAs to silence foreign nucleic acids in a
sequence-specific manner. Although the maturation of crRNAs represents a key
event in CRISPR activation, the responsible endoribonucleases (CasE, Cas6, Csy4) 
are missing in many CRISPR/Cas subtypes. Here, differential RNA sequencing of the
human pathogen Streptococcus pyogenes uncovered tracrRNA, a trans-encoded small
RNA with 24-nucleotide complementarity to the repeat regions of crRNA precursor
transcripts. We show that tracrRNA directs the maturation of crRNAs by the
activities of the widely conserved endogenous RNase III and the CRISPR-associated
Csn1 protein; all these components are essential to protect S. pyogenes against
prophage-derived DNA. Our study reveals a novel pathway of small guide RNA
maturation and the first example of a host factor (RNase III) required for
bacterial RNA-mediated immunity against invaders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09886 
PMCID: PMC3070239
PMID: 21455174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):591-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09816.

Linear ubiquitination prevents inflammation and regulates immune signalling.

Gerlach B(1), Cordier SM, Schmukle AC, Emmerich CH, Rieser E, Haas TL, Webb AI,
Rickard JA, Anderton H, Wong WW, Nachbur U, Gangoda L, Warnken U, Purcell AW,
Silke J, Walczak H.

Author information: 
(1)Tumour Immunology Unit, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, W12
0NN London, UK.

Members of the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily have important
functions in immunity and inflammation. Recently linear ubiquitin chains
assembled by a complex containing HOIL-1 and HOIP (also known as RBCK1 and RNF31,
respectively) were implicated in TNF signalling, yet their relevance in vivo
remained uncertain. Here we identify SHARPIN as a third component of the linear
ubiquitin chain assembly complex, recruited to the CD40 and TNF receptor
signalling complexes together with its other constituents, HOIL-1 and HOIP. Mass 
spectrometry of TNF signalling complexes revealed RIP1 (also known as RIPK1) and 
NEMO (also known as IKKγ or IKBKG) to be linearly ubiquitinated. Mutation of the 
Sharpin gene (Sharpin(cpdm/cpdm)) causes chronic proliferative dermatitis (cpdm) 
characterized by inflammatory skin lesions and defective lymphoid organogenesis. 
Gene induction by TNF, CD40 ligand and interleukin-1β was attenuated in
cpdm-derived cells which were rendered sensitive to TNF-induced death.
Importantly, Tnf gene deficiency prevented skin lesions in cpdm mice. We conclude
that by enabling linear ubiquitination in the TNF receptor signalling complex,
SHARPIN interferes with TNF-induced cell death and, thereby, prevents
inflammation. Our results provide evidence for the relevance of linear
ubiquitination in vivo in preventing inflammation and regulating immune
signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09816 
PMID: 21455173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):E11-2; discussion E12-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09875.

Robins have a magnetic compass in both eyes.

Hein CM(1), Engels S, Kishkinev D, Mouritsen H.

Author information: 
(1)AG Neurosensorik/Animal Navigation, IBU, University of Oldenburg, D-26111
Oldenburg, Germany.

Comment on
    Nature. 2002 Oct 3;419(6906):467-70.

Arising from W. Wiltschko et al. 419, 467-470 (2002); Wiltschko et al. replyThe
magnetic compass of migratory birds is embedded in the visual system and it has
been reported by Wiltschko et al. that European Robins, Erithacus rubecula,
cannot show magnetic compass orientation using their left eye only. This has led 
to the notion that the magnetic compass should be located only in the right eye
of birds. However, a complete right lateralization of the magnetic compass would 
be very surprising, and functional neuroanatomical data have questioned this
notion. Here we show that the results of Wiltschko et al. could not be
independently confirmed using double-blind protocols. European Robins can perform
magnetic compass orientation with both eyes open, with the left eye open only,
and with the right eye open only. No clear lateralization is observed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09875 
PMID: 21455128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):617-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09866. Epub 2011 Mar 16.

Controlling inelastic light scattering quantum pathways in graphene.

Chen CF(1), Park CH, Boudouris BW, Horng J, Geng B, Girit C, Zettl A, Crommie MF,
Segalman RA, Louie SG, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

Inelastic light scattering spectroscopy has, since its first discovery, been an
indispensable tool in physical science for probing elementary excitations, such
as phonons, magnons and plasmons in both bulk and nanoscale materials. In the
quantum mechanical picture of inelastic light scattering, incident photons first 
excite a set of intermediate electronic states, which then generate crystal
elementary excitations and radiate energy-shifted photons. The intermediate
electronic excitations therefore have a crucial role as quantum pathways in
inelastic light scattering, and this is exemplified by resonant Raman scattering 
and Raman interference. The ability to control these excitation pathways can open
up new opportunities to probe, manipulate and utilize inelastic light scattering.
Here we achieve excitation pathway control in graphene with electrostatic doping.
Our study reveals quantum interference between different Raman pathways in
graphene: when some of the pathways are blocked, the one-phonon Raman intensity
does not diminish, as commonly expected, but increases dramatically. This
discovery sheds new light on the understanding of resonance Raman scattering in
graphene. In addition, we demonstrate hot-electron luminescence in graphene as
the Fermi energy approaches half the laser excitation energy. This hot
luminescence, which is another form of inelastic light scattering, results from
excited-state relaxation channels that become available only in heavily doped
graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09866 
PMID: 21412234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):642-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09790. Epub 2011 Mar 13.

Aberrant chromosome morphology in human cells defective for Holliday junction
resolution.

Wechsler T(1), Newman S, West SC.

Author information: 
(1)London Research Institute, Cancer Research UK, Clare Hall Laboratories, South 
Mimms, Hertfordshire EN6 3LD, UK.

In somatic cells, Holliday junctions can be formed between sister chromatids
during the recombinational repair of DNA breaks or after replication fork demise.
A variety of processes act upon Holliday junctions to remove them from DNA, in
events that are critical for proper chromosome segregation. In human cells, the
BLM protein, inactivated in individuals with Bloom's syndrome, acts in
combination with topoisomerase IIIα, RMI1 and RMI2 (BTR complex) to promote the
dissolution of double Holliday junctions. Cells defective for BLM exhibit
elevated levels of sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) and patients with Bloom's
syndrome develop a broad spectrum of early-onset cancers caused by chromosome
instability. MUS81-EME1 (refs 4-7), SLX1-SLX4 (refs 8-11) and GEN1 (refs 12, 13) 
also process Holliday junctions but, in contrast to the BTR complex, do so by
endonucleolytic cleavage. Here we deplete these nucleases from Bloom's syndrome
cells to analyse human cells compromised for the known Holliday junction
dissolution/resolution pathways. We show that depletion of MUS81 and GEN1, or
SLX4 and GEN1, from Bloom's syndrome cells results in severe chromosome
abnormalities, such that sister chromatids remain interlinked in a side-by-side
arrangement and the chromosomes are elongated and segmented. Our results indicate
that normally replicating human cells require Holliday junction processing
activities to prevent sister chromatid entanglements and thereby ensure accurate 
chromosome condensation. This phenotype was not apparent when both MUS81 and SLX4
were depleted from Bloom's syndrome cells, suggesting that GEN1 can compensate
for their absence. Additionally, we show that depletion of MUS81 or SLX4 reduces 
the high frequency of SCEs in Bloom's syndrome cells, indicating that MUS81 and
SLX4 promote SCE formation, in events that may ultimately drive the chromosome
instabilities that underpin early-onset cancers associated with Bloom's syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09790 
PMCID: PMC3560329
PMID: 21399624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):651-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09789. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

Crystal structure of metarhodopsin II.

Choe HW(1), Kim YJ, Park JH, Morizumi T, Pai EF, Krauss N, Hofmann KP, Scheerer
P, Ernst OP.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Physik und Biophysik - CC2, Charité -
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Charitéplatz 1, D-10117 Berlin, Germany.
hwchoe@jbnu.ac.kr

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are seven transmembrane helix (TM) proteins
that transduce signals into living cells by binding extracellular ligands and
coupling to intracellular heterotrimeric G proteins (Gαβγ). The photoreceptor
rhodopsin couples to transducin and bears its ligand 11-cis-retinal covalently
bound via a protonated Schiff base to the opsin apoprotein. Absorption of a
photon causes retinal cis/trans isomerization and generates the agonist
all-trans-retinal in situ. After early photoproducts, the active
G-protein-binding intermediate metarhodopsin II (Meta II) is formed, in which the
retinal Schiff base is still intact but deprotonated. Dissociation of the proton 
from the Schiff base breaks a major constraint in the protein and enables further
activating steps, including an outward tilt of TM6 and formation of a large
cytoplasmic crevice for uptake of the interacting C terminus of the Gα subunit.
Owing to Schiff base hydrolysis, Meta II is short-lived and notoriously difficult
to crystallize. We therefore soaked opsin crystals with all-trans-retinal to form
Meta II, presuming that the crystal's high concentration of opsin in an active
conformation (Ops*) may facilitate all-trans-retinal uptake and Schiff base
formation. Here we present the 3.0 Å and 2.85 Å crystal structures, respectively,
of Meta II alone or in complex with an 11-amino-acid C-terminal fragment derived 
from Gα (GαCT2). GαCT2 binds in a large crevice at the cytoplasmic side, akin to 
the binding of a similar Gα-derived peptide to Ops* (ref. 7). In the Meta II
structures, the electron density from the retinal ligand seamlessly continues
into the Lys 296 side chain, reflecting proper formation of the Schiff base
linkage. The retinal is in a relaxed conformation and almost undistorted compared
with pure crystalline all-trans-retinal. By comparison with early photoproducts
we propose how retinal translocation and rotation induce the gross conformational
changes characteristic for Meta II. The structures can now serve as models for
the large GPCR family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09789 
PMID: 21389988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):656-60. doi: 10.1038/nature09795. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

The structural basis of agonist-induced activation in constitutively active
rhodopsin.

Standfuss J(1), Edwards PC, D'Antona A, Fransen M, Xie G, Oprian DD, Schertler
GF.

Author information: 
(1)Paul Scherrer Institut, 5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) comprise the largest family of membrane
proteins in the human genome and mediate cellular responses to an extensive array
of hormones, neurotransmitters and sensory stimuli. Although some crystal
structures have been determined for GPCRs, most are for modified forms, showing
little basal activity, and are bound to inverse agonists or antagonists.
Consequently, these structures correspond to receptors in their inactive states. 
The visual pigment rhodopsin is the only GPCR for which structures exist that are
thought to be in the active state. However, these structures are for the
apoprotein, or opsin, form that does not contain the agonist all-trans retinal.
Here we present a crystal structure at a resolution of 3 Å for the constitutively
active rhodopsin mutant Glu 113 Gln in complex with a peptide derived from the
carboxy terminus of the α-subunit of the G protein transducin. The protein is in 
an active conformation that retains retinal in the binding pocket after
photoactivation. Comparison with the structure of ground-state rhodopsin suggests
how translocation of the retinal β-ionone ring leads to a rotation of
transmembrane helix 6, which is the critical conformational change on activation.
A key feature of this conformational change is a reorganization of water-mediated
hydrogen-bond networks between the retinal-binding pocket and three of the most
conserved GPCR sequence motifs. We thus show how an agonist ligand can activate
its GPCR.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09795 
PMCID: PMC3715716
PMID: 21389983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Nature. 2011 Mar 31;471(7340):597-601. doi: 10.1038/nature09797. Epub 2011 Jan
30.

Habenular α5 nicotinic receptor subunit signalling controls nicotine intake.

Fowler CD(1), Lu Q, Johnson PM, Marks MJ, Kenny PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Behavioral and Molecular Neuroscience, Department of Molecular 
Therapeutics, The Scripps Research Institute-Scripps Florida, Jupiter, Florida
33458, USA.

Genetic variation in CHRNA5, the gene encoding the α5 nicotinic acetylcholine
receptor subunit, increases vulnerability to tobacco addiction and lung cancer,
but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Here we report markedly increased
nicotine intake in mice with a null mutation in Chrna5. This effect was 'rescued'
in knockout mice by re-expressing α5 subunits in the medial habenula (MHb), and
recapitulated in rats through α5 subunit knockdown in MHb. Remarkably, α5 subunit
knockdown in MHb did not alter the rewarding effects of nicotine but abolished
the inhibitory effects of higher nicotine doses on brain reward systems. The MHb 
extends projections almost exclusively to the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN). We
found diminished IPN activation in response to nicotine in α5 knockout mice.
Further, disruption of IPN signalling increased nicotine intake in rats. Our
findings indicate that nicotine activates the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway
through α5-containing nAChRs, triggering an inhibitory motivational signal that
acts to limit nicotine intake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09797 
PMCID: PMC3079537
PMID: 21278726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):527-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09990.

A cis-regulatory map of the Drosophila genome.

Nègre N(1), Brown CD, Ma L, Bristow CA, Miller SW, Wagner U, Kheradpour P, Eaton 
ML, Loriaux P, Sealfon R, Li Z, Ishii H, Spokony RF, Chen J, Hwang L, Cheng C,
Auburn RP, Davis MB, Domanus M, Shah PK, Morrison CA, Zieba J, Suchy S,
Senderowicz L, Victorsen A, Bild NA, Grundstad AJ, Hanley D, MacAlpine DM,
Mannervik M, Venken K, Bellen H, White R, Gerstein M, Russell S, Grossman RL, Ren
B, Posakony JW, Kellis M, White KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Human Genetics, The 
University of Chicago, 900 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):458-9.

Systematic annotation of gene regulatory elements is a major challenge in genome 
science. Direct mapping of chromatin modification marks and transcriptional
factor binding sites genome-wide has successfully identified specific subtypes of
regulatory elements. In Drosophila several pioneering studies have provided
genome-wide identification of Polycomb response elements, chromatin states,
transcription factor binding sites, RNA polymerase II regulation and insulator
elements; however, comprehensive annotation of the regulatory genome remains a
significant challenge. Here we describe results from the modENCODE cis-regulatory
annotation project. We produced a map of the Drosophila melanogaster regulatory
genome on the basis of more than 300 chromatin immunoprecipitation data sets for 
eight chromatin features, five histone deacetylases and thirty-eight
site-specific transcription factors at different stages of development. Using
these data we inferred more than 20,000 candidate regulatory elements and
validated a subset of predictions for promoters, enhancers and insulators in
vivo. We identified also nearly 2,000 genomic regions of dense transcription
factor binding associated with chromatin activity and accessibility. We
discovered hundreds of new transcription factor co-binding relationships and
defined a transcription factor network with over 800 potential regulatory
relationships.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09990 
PMCID: PMC3179250
PMID: 21430782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):523-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09870.

FAS and NF-κB signalling modulate dependence of lung cancers on mutant EGFR.

Bivona TG(1), Hieronymus H, Parker J, Chang K, Taron M, Rosell R, Moonsamy P,
Dahlman K, Miller VA, Costa C, Hannon G, Sawyers CL.

Author information: 
(1)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2011 Apr 12;19(4):437-40.

Human lung adenocarcinomas with activating mutations in EGFR (epidermal growth
factor receptor) often respond to treatment with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors 
(TKIs), but the magnitude of tumour regression is variable and transient. This
heterogeneity in treatment response could result from genetic modifiers that
regulate the degree to which tumour cells are dependent on mutant EGFR. Through a
pooled RNA interference screen, we show that knockdown of FAS and several
components of the NF-κB pathway specifically enhanced cell death induced by the
EGFR TKI erlotinib in EGFR-mutant lung cancer cells. Activation of NF-κB through 
overexpression of c-FLIP or IKK (also known as CFLAR and IKBKB, respectively), or
silencing of IκB (also known as NFKBIA), rescued EGFR-mutant lung cancer cells
from EGFR TKI treatment. Genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of NF-κB enhanced
erlotinib-induced apoptosis in erlotinib-sensitive and erlotinib-resistant
EGFR-mutant lung cancer models. Increased expression of the NF-κB inhibitor IκB
predicted for improved response and survival in EGFR-mutant lung cancer patients 
treated with EGFR TKI. These data identify NF-κB as a potential companion drug
target, together with EGFR, in EGFR-mutant lung cancers and provide insight into 
the mechanisms by which tumour cells escape from oncogene dependence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09870 
PMCID: PMC3541675
PMID: 21430781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):518-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09882.

DHODH modulates transcriptional elongation in the neural crest and melanoma.

White RM(1), Cech J, Ratanasirintrawoot S, Lin CY, Rahl PB, Burke CJ, Langdon E, 
Tomlinson ML, Mosher J, Kaufman C, Chen F, Long HK, Kramer M, Datta S, Neuberg D,
Granter S, Young RA, Morrison S, Wheeler GN, Zon LI.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Program and Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston, Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.

Melanoma is a tumour of transformed melanocytes, which are originally derived
from the embryonic neural crest. It is unknown to what extent the programs that
regulate neural crest development interact with mutations in the BRAF oncogene,
which is the most commonly mutated gene in human melanoma. We have used zebrafish
embryos to identify the initiating transcriptional events that occur on
activation of human BRAF(V600E) (which encodes an amino acid substitution mutant 
of BRAF) in the neural crest lineage. Zebrafish embryos that are transgenic for
mitfa:BRAF(V600E) and lack p53 (also known as tp53) have a gene signature that is
enriched for markers of multipotent neural crest cells, and neural crest
progenitors from these embryos fail to terminally differentiate. To determine
whether these early transcriptional events are important for melanoma
pathogenesis, we performed a chemical genetic screen to identify small-molecule
suppressors of the neural crest lineage, which were then tested for their effects
on melanoma. One class of compound, inhibitors of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase
(DHODH), for example leflunomide, led to an almost complete abrogation of neural 
crest development in zebrafish and to a reduction in the self-renewal of
mammalian neural crest stem cells. Leflunomide exerts these effects by inhibiting
the transcriptional elongation of genes that are required for neural crest
development and melanoma growth. When used alone or in combination with a
specific inhibitor of the BRAF(V600E) oncogene, DHODH inhibition led to a marked 
decrease in melanoma growth both in vitro and in mouse xenograft studies. Taken
together, these studies highlight developmental pathways in neural crest cells
that have a direct bearing on melanoma formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09882 
PMCID: PMC3759979
PMID: 21430780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):513-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09806.

The histone methyltransferase SETDB1 is recurrently amplified in melanoma and
accelerates its onset.

Ceol CJ(1), Houvras Y, Jane-Valbuena J, Bilodeau S, Orlando DA, Battisti V,
Fritsch L, Lin WM, Hollmann TJ, Ferré F, Bourque C, Burke CJ, Turner L, Uong A,
Johnson LA, Beroukhim R, Mermel CH, Loda M, Ait-Si-Ali S, Garraway LA, Young RA, 
Zon LI.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Program and Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston, Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.

The most common mutation in human melanoma, BRAF(V600E), activates the
serine/threonine kinase BRAF and causes excessive activity in the
mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. BRAF(V600E) mutations are also present 
in benign melanocytic naevi, highlighting the importance of additional genetic
alterations in the genesis of malignant tumours. Such changes include recurrent
copy number variations that result in the amplification of oncogenes. For certain
amplifications, the large number of genes in the interval has precluded an
understanding of the cooperating oncogenic events. Here we have used a zebrafish 
melanoma model to test genes in a recurrently amplified region of chromosome 1
for the ability to cooperate with BRAF(V600E) and accelerate melanoma. SETDB1, an
enzyme that methylates histone H3 on lysine 9 (H3K9), was found to accelerate
melanoma formation significantly in zebrafish. Chromatin immunoprecipitation
coupled with massively parallel DNA sequencing and gene expression analyses
uncovered genes, including HOX genes, that are transcriptionally dysregulated in 
response to increased levels of SETDB1. Our studies establish SETDB1 as an
oncogene in melanoma and underscore the role of chromatin factors in regulating
tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09806 
PMCID: PMC3348545
PMID: 21430779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):504-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09850.

In vitro production of functional sperm in cultured neonatal mouse testes.

Sato T(1), Katagiri K, Gohbara A, Inoue K, Ogonuki N, Ogura A, Kubota Y, Ogawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine,
Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2011 Aug;60(2):394-5.
    Asian J Androl. 2011 Jul;13(4):618-9.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):453-5.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2011 May;8(5):231.

Spermatogenesis is one of the most complex and longest processes of sequential
cell proliferation and differentiation in the body, taking more than a month from
spermatogonial stem cells, through meiosis, to sperm formation. The whole
process, therefore, has never been reproduced in vitro in mammals, nor in any
other species with a very few exceptions in some particular types of fish. Here
we show that neonatal mouse testes which contain only gonocytes or primitive
spermatogonia as germ cells can produce spermatids and sperm in vitro with
serum-free culture media. Spermatogenesis was maintained over 2 months in tissue 
fragments positioned at the gas-liquid interphase. The obtained spermatids and
sperm resulted in healthy and reproductively competent offspring through
microinsemination. In addition, neonatal testis tissues were cryopreserved and,
after thawing, showed complete spermatogenesis in vitro. Our organ culture method
could be applicable through further refinements to a variety of mammalian
species, which will serve as a platform for future clinical application as well
as mechanistic understanding of spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09850 
PMID: 21430778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):494-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09838.

Fault lubrication during earthquakes.

Di Toro G(1), Han R, Hirose T, De Paola N, Nielsen S, Mizoguchi K, Ferri F, Cocco
M, Shimamoto T.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Geoscienze, Università di Padova, Padova 35131, Italy.
giulio.ditoro@unipd.it

The determination of rock friction at seismic slip rates (about 1 m s(-1)) is of 
paramount importance in earthquake mechanics, as fault friction controls the
stress drop, the mechanical work and the frictional heat generated during slip.
Given the difficulty in determining friction by seismological methods,
elucidating constraints are derived from experimental studies. Here we review a
large set of published and unpublished experiments (∼300) performed in rotary
shear apparatus at slip rates of 0.1-2.6 m s(-1). The experiments indicate a
significant decrease in friction (of up to one order of magnitude), which we term
fault lubrication, both for cohesive (silicate-built, quartz-built and
carbonate-built) rocks and non-cohesive rocks (clay-rich, anhydrite, gypsum and
dolomite gouges) typical of crustal seismogenic sources. The available mechanical
work and the associated temperature rise in the slipping zone trigger a number of
physicochemical processes (gelification, decarbonation and dehydration reactions,
melting and so on) whose products are responsible for fault lubrication. The
similarity between (1) experimental and natural fault products and (2) mechanical
work measures resulting from these laboratory experiments and seismological
estimates suggests that it is reasonable to extrapolate experimental data to
conditions typical of earthquake nucleation depths (7-15 km). It seems that
faults are lubricated during earthquakes, irrespective of the fault rock
composition and of the specific weakening mechanism involved.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09838 
PMID: 21430777 


678. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):486-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09778.

Interaction-based quantum metrology showing scaling beyond the Heisenberg limit.

Napolitano M(1), Koschorreck M, Dubost B, Behbood N, Sewell RJ, Mitchell MW.

Author information: 
(1)ICFO-Institut de Ciencies Fotoniques, Mediterranean Technology Park, 08860
Castelldefels, Barcelona, Spain. mario.napolitano@icfo.es

Quantum metrology aims to use entanglement and other quantum resources to improve
precision measurement. An interferometer using N independent particles to measure
a parameter χ can achieve at best the standard quantum limit of sensitivity,
δχ ∝ N(-1/2). However, using N entangled particles and exotic states, such an
interferometer can in principle achieve the Heisenberg limit, δχ ∝ N(-1). Recent 
theoretical work has argued that interactions among particles may be a valuable
resource for quantum metrology, allowing scaling beyond the Heisenberg limit.
Specifically, a k-particle interaction will produce sensitivity δχ ∝ N(-k) with
appropriate entangled states and δχ ∝ N(-(k-1/2)) even without entanglement. Here
we demonstrate 'super-Heisenberg' scaling of δχ ∝ N(-3/2) in a nonlinear,
non-destructive measurement of the magnetization of an atomic ensemble. We use
fast optical nonlinearities to generate a pairwise photon-photon interaction
(corresponding to k = 2) while preserving quantum-noise-limited performance. We
observe super-Heisenberg scaling over two orders of magnitude in N, limited at
large numbers by higher-order nonlinear effects, in good agreement with theory.
For a measurement of limited duration, super-Heisenberg scaling allows the
nonlinear measurement to overtake in sensitivity a comparable linear measurement 
with the same number of photons. In other situations, however, higher-order
nonlinearities prevent this crossover from occurring, reflecting the subtle
relationship between scaling and sensitivity in nonlinear systems. Our work shows
that interparticle interactions can improve sensitivity in a quantum-limited
measurement, and experimentally demonstrates a new resource for quantum
metrology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09778 
PMID: 21430776 


679. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):467-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09837.

Initial genome sequencing and analysis of multiple myeloma.

Chapman MA(1), Lawrence MS, Keats JJ, Cibulskis K, Sougnez C, Schinzel AC,
Harview CL, Brunet JP, Ahmann GJ, Adli M, Anderson KC, Ardlie KG, Auclair D,
Baker A, Bergsagel PL, Bernstein BE, Drier Y, Fonseca R, Gabriel SB, Hofmeister
CC, Jagannath S, Jakubowiak AJ, Krishnan A, Levy J, Liefeld T, Lonial S, Mahan S,
Mfuko B, Monti S, Perkins LM, Onofrio R, Pugh TJ, Rajkumar SV, Ramos AH, Siegel
DS, Sivachenko A, Stewart AK, Trudel S, Vij R, Voet D, Winckler W, Zimmerman T,
Carpten J, Trent J, Hahn WC, Garraway LA, Meyerson M, Lander ES, Getz G, Golub
TR.

Author information: 
(1)The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02412, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 May;11(5):312.

Multiple myeloma is an incurable malignancy of plasma cells, and its pathogenesis
is poorly understood. Here we report the massively parallel sequencing of 38
tumour genomes and their comparison to matched normal DNAs. Several new and
unexpected oncogenic mechanisms were suggested by the pattern of somatic mutation
across the data set. These include the mutation of genes involved in protein
translation (seen in nearly half of the patients), genes involved in histone
methylation, and genes involved in blood coagulation. In addition, a broader than
anticipated role of NF-κB signalling was indicated by mutations in 11 members of 
the NF-κB pathway. Of potential immediate clinical relevance, activating
mutations of the kinase BRAF were observed in 4% of patients, suggesting the
evaluation of BRAF inhibitors in multiple myeloma clinical trials. These results 
indicate that cancer genome sequencing of large collections of samples will yield
new insights into cancer not anticipated by existing knowledge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09837 
PMCID: PMC3560292
PMID: 21430775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):461-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09957.

Catalytic Z-selective olefin cross-metathesis for natural product synthesis.

Meek SJ(1), O'Brien RV, Llaveria J, Schrock RR, Hoveyda AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Merkert Chemistry Center, Boston College, Chestnut
Hill, Massachusetts 02467, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):452-3.

Alkenes are found in many biologically active molecules, and there are a large
number of chemical transformations in which alkenes act as the reactants or
products (or both) of the reaction. Many alkenes exist as either the E or the
higher-energy Z stereoisomer. Catalytic procedures for the stereoselective
formation of alkenes are valuable, yet methods enabling the synthesis of
1,2-disubstituted Z alkenes are scarce. Here we report catalytic Z-selective
cross-metathesis reactions of terminal enol ethers, which have not been reported 
previously, and of allylic amides, used until now only in E-selective processes. 
The corresponding disubstituted alkenes are formed in up to >98% Z selectivity
and 97% yield. These transformations, promoted by catalysts that contain the
highly abundant and inexpensive metal molybdenum, are amenable to gram-scale
operations. Use of reduced pressure is introduced as a simple and effective
strategy for achieving high stereoselectivity. The utility of this method is
demonstrated by its use in syntheses of an anti-oxidant plasmalogen phospholipid,
found in electrically active tissues and implicated in Alzheimer's disease, and
the potent immunostimulant KRN7000.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09957 
PMCID: PMC3082443
PMID: 21430774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E8-9; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09835.

In defence of inclusive fitness theory.

Herre EA, Wcislo WT.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1057-62.

Arising from M. A. Nowak, C. E. Tarnita & E. O. Wilson 466, 1057-1062 (2010);
Nowak et al. reply. Arguably the defining characteristic of the scientific
process is its capacity for self-criticism and correction. Nowak et al. challenge
proposed connections between relatedness and the evolution of eusociality,
suggest instead that defensible nests and "spring-loaded" traits are key, and
present alternative modelling approaches. They then dismiss the utility of
Hamilton's insight that relatedness has a profound evolutionary effect,
formalized in his widely accepted inclusive fitness theory as Hamilton's rule
("Rise and fall of inclusive fitness theory"). However, we believe that Nowak et 
al. fail to make their case for logical, theoretical and empirical reasons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09835 
PMID: 21430725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E6-8; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09834.

Inclusive fitness in evolution.

Ferriere R, Michod RE.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1057-62.

Arising from M. A. Nowak, C. E. Tarnita & E. O. Wilson 466, 1057-1062 (2010);
Nowak et al. reply. For over fifty years, the evolution of social behaviour has
been guided by the concept of inclusive fitness as a measure of evolutionary
success. Nowak et al. argue that inclusive fitness should be abandoned. In so
doing, however, they misrepresent the role that inclusive fitness has played in
the theory of social evolution by which understanding social behaviour in a
variety of disciplines has developed and flourished. By discarding inclusive
fitness on the basis of its limitations, they create a conceptual tension which, 
we argue, is unnecessary, and potentially dangerous for evolutionary biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09834 
PMID: 21430724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E5-6; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09833.

Kin selection and eusociality.

Strassmann JE, Page RE Jr, Robinson GE, Seeley TD.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1057-62.

Arising from M. A. Nowak, C. E. Tarnita & E. O. Wilson 466, 1057-1062 (2010);
Nowak et al. reply. Hamilton described a selective process in which individuals
affect kin (kin selection), developed a novel modelling strategy for it
(inclusive fitness), and derived a rule to describe it (Hamilton's rule). Nowak
et al. assert that inclusive fitness is not the best modelling strategy, and also
that its production has been "meagre". The former may be debated by
theoreticians, but the latter is simply incorrect. There is abundant evidence to 
demonstrate that inclusive fitness, kin selection and Hamilton's rule have been
extraordinarily productive for understanding the evolution of sociality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09833 
PMID: 21430723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E4-5; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09832.

Only full-sibling families evolved eusociality.

Boomsma JJ, Beekman M, Cornwallis CK, Griffin AS, Holman L, Hughes WO, Keller L, 
Oldroyd BP, Ratnieks FL.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1057-62.

Arising from M. A. Nowak, C. E. Tarnita & E. O. Wilson 466, 1057-1062 (2010);
Nowak et al. reply. The paper by Nowak et al. has the evolution of eusociality as
its title, but it is mostly about something else. It argues against inclusive
fitness theory and offers an alternative modelling approach that is claimed to be
more fundamental and general, but which, we believe, has no practical biological 
meaning for the evolution of eusociality. Nowak et al. overlook the robust
empirical observation that eusociality has only arisen in clades where mothers
are associated with their full-sibling offspring; that is, in families where the 
average relatedness of offspring to siblings is as high as to their own
offspring, independent of population structure or ploidy. We believe that this
omission makes the paper largely irrelevant for understanding the evolution of
eusociality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09832 
PMID: 21430722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):E1-4; author reply E9-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09831.

Inclusive fitness theory and eusociality.

Abbot P, Abe J, Alcock J, Alizon S, Alpedrinha JA, Andersson M, Andre JB, van
Baalen M, Balloux F, Balshine S, Barton N, Beukeboom LW, Biernaskie JM, Bilde T, 
Borgia G, Breed M, Brown S, Bshary R, Buckling A, Burley NT, Burton-Chellew MN,
Cant MA, Chapuisat M, Charnov EL, Clutton-Brock T, Cockburn A, Cole BJ, Colegrave
N, Cosmides L, Couzin ID, Coyne JA, Creel S, Crespi B, Curry RL, Dall SR, Day T, 
Dickinson JL, Dugatkin LA, El Mouden C, Emlen ST, Evans J, Ferriere R, Field J,
Foitzik S, Foster K, Foster WA, Fox CW, Gadau J, Gandon S, Gardner A, Gardner MG,
Getty T, Goodisman MA, Grafen A, Grosberg R, Grozinger CM, Gouyon PH, Gwynne D,
Harvey PH, Hatchwell BJ, Heinze J, Helantera H, Helms KR, Hill K, Jiricny N,
Johnstone RA, Kacelnik A, Kiers ET, Kokko H, Komdeur J, Korb J, Kronauer D,
Kümmerli R, Lehmann L, Linksvayer TA, Lion S, Lyon B, Marshall JA, McElreath R,
Michalakis Y, Michod RE, Mock D, Monnin T, Montgomerie R, Moore AJ, Mueller UG,
Noë R, Okasha S, Pamilo P, Parker GA, Pedersen JS, Pen I, Pfennig D, Queller DC, 
Rankin DJ, Reece SE, Reeve HK, Reuter M, Roberts G, Robson SK, Roze D, Rousset F,
Rueppell O, Sachs JL, Santorelli L, Schmid-Hempel P, Schwarz MP, Scott-Phillips
T, Shellmann-Sherman J, Sherman PW, Shuker DM, Smith J, Spagna JC, Strassmann B, 
Suarez AV, Sundström L, Taborsky M, Taylor P, Thompson G, Tooby J, Tsutsui ND,
Tsuji K, Turillazzi S, Ubeda F, Vargo EL, Voelkl B, Wenseleers T, West SA,
West-Eberhard MJ, Westneat DF, Wiernasz DC, Wild G, Wrangham R, Young AJ, Zeh DW,
Zeh JA, Zink A.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):480.

Comment on
    Nature. 2010 Aug 26;466(7310):1057-62.

Arising from M. A. Nowak, C. E. Tarnita & E. O. Wilson 466, 1057-1062 (2010);
Nowak et al. reply. Nowak et al. argue that inclusive fitness theory has been of 
little value in explaining the natural world, and that it has led to negligible
progress in explaining the evolution of eusociality. However, we believe that
their arguments are based upon a misunderstanding of evolutionary theory and a
misrepresentation of the empirical literature. We will focus our comments on
three general issues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09831 
PMCID: PMC3836173
PMID: 21430721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):532-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09772. Epub 2011 Mar 13.

TERRA and hnRNPA1 orchestrate an RPA-to-POT1 switch on telomeric single-stranded 
DNA.

Flynn RL(1), Centore RC, O'Sullivan RJ, Rai R, Tse A, Songyang Z, Chang S,
Karlseder J, Zou L.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School,
Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA.

Maintenance of telomeres requires both DNA replication and telomere 'capping' by 
shelterin. These two processes use two single-stranded DNA (ssDNA)-binding
proteins, replication protein A (RPA) and protection of telomeres 1 (POT1).
Although RPA and POT1 each have a critical role at telomeres, how they function
in concert is not clear. POT1 ablation leads to activation of the ataxia
telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) checkpoint kinase at telomeres, suggesting 
that POT1 antagonizes RPA binding to telomeric ssDNA. Unexpectedly, we found that
purified POT1 and its functional partner TPP1 are unable to prevent RPA binding
to telomeric ssDNA efficiently. In cell extracts, we identified a novel activity 
that specifically displaces RPA, but not POT1, from telomeric ssDNA. Using
purified protein, here we show that the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein
A1 (hnRNPA1) recapitulates the RPA displacing activity. The RPA displacing
activity is inhibited by the telomeric repeat-containing RNA (TERRA) in early S
phase, but is then unleashed in late S phase when TERRA levels decline at
telomeres. Interestingly, TERRA also promotes POT1 binding to telomeric ssDNA by 
removing hnRNPA1, suggesting that the re-accumulation of TERRA after S phase
helps to complete the RPA-to-POT1 switch on telomeric ssDNA. Together, our data
suggest that hnRNPA1, TERRA and POT1 act in concert to displace RPA from
telomeric ssDNA after DNA replication, and promote telomere capping to preserve
genomic integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09772 
PMCID: PMC3078637
PMID: 21399625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):490-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09829. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

Collapse of long-range charge order tracked by time-resolved photoemission at
high momenta.

Rohwer T(1), Hellmann S, Wiesenmayer M, Sohrt C, Stange A, Slomski B, Carr A, Liu
Y, Avila LM, Kalläne M, Mathias S, Kipp L, Rossnagel K, Bauer M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental and Applied Physics, University of Kiel, 24118 Kiel,
Germany.

Intense femtosecond (10(-15) s) light pulses can be used to transform electronic,
magnetic and structural order in condensed-matter systems on timescales of
electronic and atomic motion. This technique is particularly useful in the study 
and in the control of materials whose physical properties are governed by the
interactions between multiple degrees of freedom. Time- and angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy is in this context a direct and comprehensive, energy-
and momentum-selective probe of the ultrafast processes that couple to the
electronic degrees of freedom. Previously, the capability of such studies to
access electron momentum space away from zero momentum was, however, restricted
owing to limitations of the available probing photon energy. Here, using
femtosecond extreme-ultraviolet pulses delivered by a high-harmonic-generation
source, we use time- and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy to measure the
photoinduced vaporization of a charge-ordered state in the potential excitonic
insulator 1T-TiSe(2 )(refs 12, 13). By way of stroboscopic imaging of electronic 
band dispersions at large momentum, in the vicinity of the edge of the first
Brillouin zone, we reveal that the collapse of atomic-scale periodic long-range
order happens on a timescale as short as 20 femtoseconds. The surprisingly fast
response of the system is assigned to screening by the transient generation of
free charge carriers. Similar screening scenarios are likely to be relevant in
other photoinduced solid-state transitions and may generally determine the
response times. Moreover, as electron states with large momenta govern
fundamental electronic properties in condensed matter systems, we anticipate that
the experimental advance represented by the present study will be useful to study
the ultrafast dynamics and microscopic mechanisms of electronic phenomena in a
wide range of materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09829 
PMID: 21389987 


688. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):499-503. doi: 10.1038/nature09884. Epub 2011 Feb
23.

Duplications of the neuropeptide receptor gene VIPR2 confer significant risk for 
schizophrenia.

Vacic V(1), McCarthy S, Malhotra D, Murray F, Chou HH, Peoples A, Makarov V, Yoon
S, Bhandari A, Corominas R, Iakoucheva LM, Krastoshevsky O, Krause V,
Larach-Walters V, Welsh DK, Craig D, Kelsoe JR, Gershon ES, Leal SM, Dell Aquila 
M, Morris DW, Gill M, Corvin A, Insel PA, McClellan J, King MC, Karayiorgou M,
Levy DL, DeLisi LE, Sebat J.

Author information: 
(1)Stanley Institute for Cognitive Genomics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold 
Spring Harbor, New York 12824, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jun 2;474(7349):114.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):455-6.

Rare copy number variants (CNVs) have a prominent role in the aetiology of
schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Substantial risk for
schizophrenia is conferred by large (>500-kilobase) CNVs at several loci,
including microdeletions at 1q21.1 (ref. 2), 3q29 (ref. 3), 15q13.3 (ref. 2) and 
22q11.2 (ref. 4) and microduplication at 16p11.2 (ref. 5). However, these CNVs
collectively account for a small fraction (2-4%) of cases, and the relevant genes
and neurobiological mechanisms are not well understood. Here we performed a large
two-stage genome-wide scan of rare CNVs and report the significant association of
copy number gains at chromosome 7q36.3 with schizophrenia. Microduplications with
variable breakpoints occurred within a 362-kilobase region and were detected in
29 of 8,290 (0.35%) patients versus 2 of 7,431 (0.03%) controls in the combined
sample. All duplications overlapped or were located within 89 kilobases upstream 
of the vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor gene VIPR2. VIPR2 transcription and
cyclic-AMP signalling were significantly increased in cultured lymphocytes from
patients with microduplications of 7q36.3. These findings implicate altered
vasoactive intestinal peptide signalling in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and
indicate the VPAC2 receptor as a potential target for the development of new
antipsychotic drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09884 
PMCID: PMC3351382
PMID: 21346763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):508-12. doi: 10.1038/nature09867. Epub 2011 Feb 23.

Fat cells reactivate quiescent neuroblasts via TOR and glial insulin relays in
Drosophila.

Sousa-Nunes R(1), Yee LL, Gould AP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Neurobiology, Medical Research Council National
Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Apr 8;8(4):352-4.

Many stem, progenitor and cancer cells undergo periods of mitotic quiescence from
which they can be reactivated. The signals triggering entry into and exit from
this reversible dormant state are not well understood. In the developing
Drosophila central nervous system, multipotent self-renewing progenitors called
neuroblasts undergo quiescence in a stereotypical spatiotemporal pattern. Entry
into quiescence is regulated by Hox proteins and an internal neuroblast timer.
Exit from quiescence (reactivation) is subject to a nutritional checkpoint
requiring dietary amino acids. Organ co-cultures also implicate an unidentified
signal from an adipose/hepatic-like tissue called the fat body. Here we provide
in vivo evidence that Slimfast amino-acid sensing and Target of rapamycin (TOR)
signalling activate a fat-body-derived signal (FDS) required for neuroblast
reactivation. Downstream of this signal, Insulin-like receptor signalling and the
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/TOR network are required in neuroblasts for 
exit from quiescence. We demonstrate that nutritionally regulated glial cells
provide the source of Insulin-like peptides (ILPs) relevant for timely neuroblast
reactivation but not for overall larval growth. Conversely, ILPs secreted into
the haemolymph by median neurosecretory cells systemically control organismal
size but do not reactivate neuroblasts. Drosophila thus contains two segregated
ILP pools, one regulating proliferation within the central nervous system and the
other controlling tissue growth systemically. Our findings support a model in
which amino acids trigger the cell cycle re-entry of neural progenitors via a
fat-body-glia-neuroblasts relay. This mechanism indicates that dietary nutrients 
and remote organs, as well as local niches, are key regulators of transitions in 
stem-cell behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09867 
PMCID: PMC3146047
PMID: 21346761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):473-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09715. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

The developmental transcriptome of Drosophila melanogaster.

Graveley BR(1), Brooks AN, Carlson JW, Duff MO, Landolin JM, Yang L, Artieri CG, 
van Baren MJ, Boley N, Booth BW, Brown JB, Cherbas L, Davis CA, Dobin A, Li R,
Lin W, Malone JH, Mattiuzzo NR, Miller D, Sturgill D, Tuch BB, Zaleski C, Zhang
D, Blanchette M, Dudoit S, Eads B, Green RE, Hammonds A, Jiang L, Kapranov P,
Langton L, Perrimon N, Sandler JE, Wan KH, Willingham A, Zhang Y, Zou Y, Andrews 
J, Bickel PJ, Brenner SE, Brent MR, Cherbas P, Gingeras TR, Hoskins RA, Kaufman
TC, Oliver B, Celniker SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, University of Connecticut
Health Center, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, Connecticut 06030-6403, USA.
graveley@neuron.uchc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):458-9.

Drosophila melanogaster is one of the most well studied genetic model organisms; 
nonetheless, its genome still contains unannotated coding and non-coding genes,
transcripts, exons and RNA editing sites. Full discovery and annotation are
pre-requisites for understanding how the regulation of transcription, splicing
and RNA editing directs the development of this complex organism. Here we used
RNA-Seq, tiling microarrays and cDNA sequencing to explore the transcriptome in
30 distinct developmental stages. We identified 111,195 new elements, including
thousands of genes, coding and non-coding transcripts, exons, splicing and
editing events, and inferred protein isoforms that previously eluded discovery
using established experimental, prediction and conservation-based approaches.
These data substantially expand the number of known transcribed elements in the
Drosophila genome and provide a high-resolution view of transcriptome dynamics
throughout development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09715 
PMCID: PMC3075879
PMID: 21179090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):480-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09725. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Comprehensive analysis of the chromatin landscape in Drosophila melanogaster.

Kharchenko PV(1), Alekseyenko AA, Schwartz YB, Minoda A, Riddle NC, Ernst J, Sabo
PJ, Larschan E, Gorchakov AA, Gu T, Linder-Basso D, Plachetka A, Shanower G,
Tolstorukov MY, Luquette LJ, Xi R, Jung YL, Park RW, Bishop EP, Canfield TK,
Sandstrom R, Thurman RE, MacAlpine DM, Stamatoyannopoulos JA, Kellis M, Elgin SC,
Kuroda MI, Pirrotta V, Karpen GH, Park PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 24;471(7339):458-9.
    Nat Methods. 2011 Mar;8(3):204.

Chromatin is composed of DNA and a variety of modified histones and non-histone
proteins, which have an impact on cell differentiation, gene regulation and other
key cellular processes. Here we present a genome-wide chromatin landscape for
Drosophila melanogaster based on eighteen histone modifications, summarized by
nine prevalent combinatorial patterns. Integrative analysis with other data
(non-histone chromatin proteins, DNase I hypersensitivity, GRO-Seq reads produced
by engaged polymerase, short/long RNA products) reveals discrete characteristics 
of chromosomes, genes, regulatory elements and other functional domains. We find 
that active genes display distinct chromatin signatures that are correlated with 
disparate gene lengths, exon patterns, regulatory functions and genomic contexts.
We also demonstrate a diversity of signatures among Polycomb targets that include
a subset with paused polymerase. This systematic profiling and integrative
analysis of chromatin signatures provides insights into how genomic elements are 
regulated, and will serve as a resource for future experimental investigations of
genome structure and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09725 
PMCID: PMC3109908
PMID: 21179089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):387-91. doi: 10.1038/nature09767.

Progesterone activates the principal Ca2+ channel of human sperm.

Lishko PV(1), Botchkina IL, Kirichok Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California San Francisco, UCSF Mail
Code 2140, Genentech Hall Room N272F, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, California 
94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):313-4.
    Asian J Androl. 2011 May;13(3):351-2.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011 Jun;7(6):316.

Steroid hormone progesterone released by cumulus cells surrounding the egg is a
potent stimulator of human spermatozoa. It attracts spermatozoa towards the egg
and helps them penetrate the egg's protective vestments. Progesterone induces
Ca(2+) influx into spermatozoa and triggers multiple Ca(2+)-dependent
physiological responses essential for successful fertilization, such as sperm
hyperactivation, acrosome reaction and chemotaxis towards the egg. As an ovarian 
hormone, progesterone acts by regulating gene expression through a
well-characterized progesterone nuclear receptor. However, the effect of
progesterone upon transcriptionally silent spermatozoa remains unexplained and is
believed to be mediated by a specialized, non-genomic membrane progesterone
receptor. The identity of this non-genomic progesterone receptor and the
mechanism by which it causes Ca(2+) entry remain fundamental unresolved questions
in human reproduction. Here we elucidate the mechanism of the non-genomic action 
of progesterone on human spermatozoa by identifying the Ca(2+) channel activated 
by progesterone. By applying the patch-clamp technique to mature human
spermatozoa, we found that nanomolar concentrations of progesterone dramatically 
potentiate CatSper, a pH-dependent Ca(2+) channel of the sperm flagellum. We
demonstrate that human CatSper is synergistically activated by elevation of
intracellular pH and extracellular progesterone. Interestingly, human CatSper can
be further potentiated by prostaglandins, but apparently through a binding site
other than that of progesterone. Because our experimental conditions did not
support second messenger signalling, CatSper or a directly associated protein
serves as the elusive non-genomic progesterone receptor of sperm. Given that the 
CatSper-associated progesterone receptor is sperm specific and structurally
different from the genomic progesterone receptor, it represents a promising
target for the development of a new class of non-hormonal contraceptives.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09767 
PMID: 21412339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):382-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09769.

The CatSper channel mediates progesterone-induced Ca2+ influx in human sperm.

Strünker T(1), Goodwin N, Brenker C, Kashikar ND, Weyand I, Seifert R, Kaupp UB.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Advanced European Studies and Research, Abteilung Molekulare
Neurosensorik, Ludwig-Erhard-Allee 2, 53175 Bonn, Germany.
timo.struenker@caesar.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):313-4.
    Asian J Androl. 2011 May;13(3):351-2.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011 Jun;7(6):316.

In the oviduct, cumulus cells that surround the oocyte release progesterone. In
human sperm, progesterone stimulates a Ca(2+) increase by a non-genomic
mechanism. The Ca(2+) signal has been proposed to control chemotaxis,
hyperactivation and acrosomal exocytosis of sperm. However, the underlying
signalling mechanism has remained mysterious. Here we show that progesterone
activates the sperm-specific, pH-sensitive CatSper Ca(2+) channel. We found that 
both progesterone and alkaline pH stimulate a rapid Ca(2+) influx with almost no 
latency, incompatible with a signalling pathway involving metabotropic receptors 
and second messengers. The Ca(2+) signals evoked by alkaline pH and progesterone 
are inhibited by the Ca(v) channel blockers NNC 55-0396 and mibefradil.
Patch-clamp recordings from sperm reveal an alkaline-activated current carried by
mono- and divalent ions that exhibits all the hallmarks of sperm-specific CatSper
Ca(2+) channels. Progesterone substantially enhances the CatSper current. The
alkaline- and progesterone-activated CatSper current is inhibited by both drugs. 
Our results resolve a long-standing controversy over the non-genomic progesterone
signalling. In human sperm, either the CatSper channel itself or an associated
protein serves as the non-genomic progesterone receptor. The identification of
CatSper channel blockers will greatly facilitate the study of Ca(2+) signalling
in sperm and help to define further the physiological role of progesterone and
CatSper.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09769 
PMID: 21412338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):353-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09912.

The role of crustal quartz in controlling Cordilleran deformation.

Lowry AR(1), Pérez-Gussinyé M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, Utah State University, Logan, Utah 84322-4505, USA.
Tony.Lowry@usu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):312-3.

Large-scale deformation of continents remains poorly understood more than 40
years after the plate tectonic revolution. Rock flow strength and mass density
variations both contribute to stress, so both are certain to be important, but
these depend (somewhat nebulously) on rock type, temperature and whether or not
unbound water is present. Hence, it is unclear precisely how Earth material
properties translate to continental deformation zones ranging from tens to
thousands of kilometres in width, why deforming zones are sometimes interspersed 
with non-deforming blocks and why large earthquakes occasionally rupture in
otherwise stable continental interiors. An important clue comes from observations
that mountain belts and rift zones cyclically form at the same locations despite 
separation across vast gulfs of time (dubbed the Wilson tectonic cycle),
accompanied by inversion of extensional basins and reactivation of faults and
other structures formed in previous deformation events. Here we show that the
abundance of crustal quartz, the weakest mineral in continental rocks, may
strongly condition continental temperature and deformation. We use EarthScope
seismic receiver functions, gravity and surface heat flow measurements to
estimate thickness and seismic velocity ratio, v(P)/v(S), of continental crust in
the western United States. The ratio v(P)/v(S) is relatively insensitive to
temperature but very sensitive to quartz abundance. Our results demonstrate a
surprising correlation of low crustal v(P)/v(S) with both higher lithospheric
temperature and deformation of the Cordillera, the mountainous region of the
western United States. The most plausible explanation for the relationship to
temperature is a robust dynamical feedback, in which ductile strain first
localizes in relatively weak, quartz-rich crust, and then initiates processes
that promote advective warming, hydration and further weakening. The feedback
mechanism proposed here would not only explain stationarity and spatial
distributions of deformation, but also lend insight into the timing and
distribution of thermal uplift and observations of deep-derived fluids in
springs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09912 
PMID: 21412337 


695. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):349-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09826.

Eocene global warming events driven by ventilation of oceanic dissolved organic
carbon.

Sexton PF(1), Norris RD, Wilson PA, Pälike H, Westerhold T, Röhl U, Bolton CT,
Gibbs S.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA. P.F.Sexton@open.ac.uk

'Hyperthermals' are intervals of rapid, pronounced global warming known from six 
episodes within the Palaeocene and Eocene epochs (∼65-34 million years (Myr)
ago). The most extreme hyperthermal was the ∼170 thousand year (kyr) interval of 
5-7 °C global warming during the Palaeocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM, 56 Myr 
ago). The PETM is widely attributed to massive release of greenhouse gases from
buried sedimentary carbon reservoirs, and other, comparatively modest,
hyperthermals have also been linked to the release of sedimentary carbon. Here we
show, using new 2.4-Myr-long Eocene deep ocean records, that the comparatively
modest hyperthermals are much more numerous than previously documented, paced by 
the eccentricity of Earth's orbit and have shorter durations (∼40 kyr) and more
rapid recovery phases than the PETM. These findings point to the operation of
fundamentally different forcing and feedback mechanisms than for the PETM,
involving redistribution of carbon among Earth's readily exchangeable surface
reservoirs rather than carbon exhumation from, and subsequent burial back into,
the sedimentary reservoir. Specifically, we interpret our records to indicate
repeated, large-scale releases of dissolved organic carbon (at least 1,600
gigatonnes) from the ocean by ventilation (strengthened oxidation) of the ocean
interior. The rapid recovery of the carbon cycle following each Eocene
hyperthermal strongly suggests that carbon was re-sequestered by the ocean,
rather than the much slower process of silicate rock weathering proposed for the 
PETM. Our findings suggest that these pronounced climate warming events were
driven not by repeated releases of carbon from buried sedimentary sources, but,
rather, by patterns of surficial carbon redistribution familiar from younger
intervals of Earth history.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09826 
PMID: 21412336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):345-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09824.

Transport through modes in random media.

Wang J(1), Genack AZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Queens College of the City University of New York,
Flushing, New York 11367, USA.

Excitations in complex media are superpositions of eigenstates that are referred 
to as 'levels' for quantum systems and 'modes' for classical waves. Although the 
Hamiltonian of a complex system may not be known or solvable, Wigner conjectured 
that the statistics of energy level spacings would be the same as for the
eigenvalues of large random matrices. This has explained key characteristics of
neutron scattering spectra. Subsequently, Thouless and co-workers argued that the
metal-insulator transition in disordered systems could be described by a single
parameter, the ratio of the average width and spacing of electronic energy
levels: when this dimensionless ratio falls below unity, conductivity is
suppressed by Anderson localization of the electronic wavefunction. However,
because of spectral congestion due to the overlap of modes, even for localized
waves, a comprehensive modal description of wave propagation has not been
realized. Here we show that the field speckle pattern of transmitted
radiation--in this case, a microwave field transmitted through randomly packed
alumina spheres--can be decomposed into a sum of the patterns of the individual
modes of the medium and the central frequency and linewidth of each mode can be
found. We find strong correlation between modal field speckle patterns, which
leads to destructive interference between modes. This allows us to explain
complexities of steady state and pulsed transmission of localized waves and to
harmonize wave and particle descriptions of diffusion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09824 
PMID: 21412335 


697. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):341-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09902.

An hour-glass magnetic spectrum in an insulating, hole-doped antiferromagnet.

Boothroyd AT(1), Babkevich P, Prabhakaran D, Freeman PG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Clarendon Laboratory, Oxford OX1 
3PU, UK. a.boothroyd@physics.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):314-6.

Superconductivity in layered copper oxide compounds emerges when charge carriers 
are added to antiferromagnetically ordered CuO(2) layers. The carriers destroy
the antiferromagnetic order, but strong spin fluctuations persist throughout the 
superconducting phase and are intimately linked to superconductivity. Neutron
scattering measurements of spin fluctuations in hole-doped copper oxides have
revealed an unusual 'hour-glass' feature in the momentum-resolved magnetic
spectrum that is present in a wide range of superconducting and
non-superconducting materials. There is no widely accepted explanation for this
feature. One possibility is that it derives from a pattern of alternating spin
and charge stripes, and this idea is supported by measurements on stripe-ordered 
La(1.875)Ba(0.125)CuO(4) (ref. 15). Many copper oxides without stripe order,
however, also exhibit an hour-glass spectrum. Here we report the observation of
an hour-glass magnetic spectrum in a hole-doped antiferromagnet from outside the 
family of superconducting copper oxides. Our system has stripe correlations and
is an insulator, which means that its magnetic dynamics can conclusively be
ascribed to stripes. The results provide compelling evidence that the hour-glass 
spectrum in the copper oxide superconductors arises from fluctuating stripes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09902 
PMID: 21412334 


698. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):319-24. doi: 10.1038/nature09827.

Single-spin addressing in an atomic Mott insulator.

Weitenberg C(1), Endres M, Sherson JF, Cheneau M, Schauss P, Fukuhara T, Bloch I,
Kuhr S.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Str 1, 85748 Garching,
Germany.

Ultracold atoms in optical lattices provide a versatile tool with which to
investigate fundamental properties of quantum many-body systems. In particular,
the high degree of control of experimental parameters has allowed the study of
many interesting phenomena, such as quantum phase transitions and quantum spin
dynamics. Here we demonstrate how such control can be implemented at the most
fundamental level of a single spin at a specific site of an optical lattice.
Using a tightly focused laser beam together with a microwave field, we were able 
to flip the spin of individual atoms in a Mott insulator with
sub-diffraction-limited resolution, well below the lattice spacing. The Mott
insulator provided us with a large two-dimensional array of perfectly arranged
atoms, in which we created arbitrary spin patterns by sequentially addressing
selected lattice sites after freezing out the atom distribution. We directly
monitored the tunnelling quantum dynamics of single atoms in the lattice prepared
along a single line, and observed that our addressing scheme leaves the atoms in 
the motional ground state. The results should enable studies of entropy transport
and the quantum dynamics of spin impurities, the implementation of novel cooling 
schemes, and the engineering of quantum many-body phases and various quantum
information processing applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09827 
PMID: 21412333 


699. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):358-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09820. Epub 2011 Mar 9.

Amygdala circuitry mediating reversible and bidirectional control of anxiety.

Tye KM(1), Prakash R, Kim SY, Fenno LE, Grosenick L, Zarabi H, Thompson KR,
Gradinaru V, Ramakrishnan C, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Anxiety--a sustained state of heightened apprehension in the absence of immediate
threat--becomes severely debilitating in disease states. Anxiety disorders
represent the most common of psychiatric diseases (28% lifetime prevalence) and
contribute to the aetiology of major depression and substance abuse. Although it 
has been proposed that the amygdala, a brain region important for emotional
processing, has a role in anxiety, the neural mechanisms that control anxiety
remain unclear. Here we explore the neural circuits underlying anxiety-related
behaviours by using optogenetics with two-photon microscopy, anxiety assays in
freely moving mice, and electrophysiology. With the capability of optogenetics to
control not only cell types but also specific connections between cells, we
observed that temporally precise optogenetic stimulation of basolateral amygdala 
(BLA) terminals in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA)--achieved by viral
transduction of the BLA with a codon-optimized channelrhodopsin followed by
restricted illumination in the downstream CeA--exerted an acute, reversible
anxiolytic effect. Conversely, selective optogenetic inhibition of the same
projection with a third-generation halorhodopsin (eNpHR3.0) increased
anxiety-related behaviours. Importantly, these effects were not observed with
direct optogenetic control of BLA somata, possibly owing to recruitment of
antagonistic downstream structures. Together, these results implicate specific
BLA-CeA projections as critical circuit elements for acute anxiety control in the
mammalian brain, and demonstrate the importance of optogenetically targeting
defined projections, beyond simply targeting cell types, in the study of circuit 
function relevant to neuropsychiatric disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09820 
PMCID: PMC3154022
PMID: 21389985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):392-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09791. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

Chromosome length influences replication-induced topological stress.

Kegel A(1), Betts-Lindroos H, Kanno T, Jeppsson K, Ström L, Katou Y, Itoh T,
Shirahige K, Sjögren C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Karolinska Institutet, von Eulers
väg 3, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Jun;12(6):343.

During chromosome duplication the parental DNA molecule becomes overwound, or
positively supercoiled, in the region ahead of the advancing replication fork. To
allow fork progression, this superhelical tension has to be removed by
topoisomerases, which operate by introducing transient DNA breaks. Positive
supercoiling can also be diminished if the advancing fork rotates along the DNA
helix, but then sister chromatid intertwinings form in its wake. Despite these
insights it remains largely unknown how replication-induced superhelical stress
is dealt with on linear, eukaryotic chromosomes. Here we show that this stress
increases with the length of Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosomes. This
highlights the possibility that superhelical tension is handled on a chromosome
scale and not only within topologically closed chromosomal domains as the current
view predicts. We found that inhibition of type I topoisomerases leads to a late 
replication delay of longer, but not shorter, chromosomes. This phenotype is also
displayed by cells expressing mutated versions of the cohesin- and
condensin-related Smc5/6 complex. The frequency of chromosomal association sites 
of the Smc5/6 complex increases in response to chromosome lengthening, chromosome
circularization, or inactivation of topoisomerase 2, all having the potential to 
increase the number of sister chromatid intertwinings. Furthermore,
non-functional Smc6 reduces the accumulation of intertwined sister plasmids after
one round of replication in the absence of topoisomerase 2 function. Our results 
demonstrate that the length of a chromosome influences the need of superhelical
tension release in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and allow us to propose a model
where the Smc5/6 complex facilitates fork rotation by sequestering nascent
chromatid intertwinings that form behind the replication machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09791 
PMID: 21368764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):363-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09852. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

Catalytic activity of the caspase-8-FLIP(L) complex inhibits RIPK3-dependent
necrosis.

Oberst A(1), Dillon CP, Weinlich R, McCormick LL, Fitzgerald P, Pop C, Hakem R,
Salvesen GS, Green DR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Immunology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee
38105, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):310-2.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 May;12(5):279.

Caspase-8 has two opposing biological functions--it promotes cell death by
triggering the extrinsic pathway of apoptosis, but also has a survival activity, 
as it is required for embryonic development, T-lymphocyte activation, and
resistance to necrosis induced by tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and related
family ligands. Here we show that development of caspase-8-deficient mice is
completely rescued by ablation of receptor interacting protein kinase-3 (RIPK3). 
Adult animals lacking both caspase-8 and RIPK3 display a progressive
lymphoaccumulative disease resembling that seen with defects in CD95 or
CD95-ligand (also known as FAS and FASLG, respectively), and resist the lethal
effects of CD95 ligation in vivo. We have found that caspase-8 prevents
RIPK3-dependent necrosis without inducing apoptosis by functioning in a
proteolytically active complex with FLICE-like inhibitory protein long (FLIP(L), 
also known as CFLAR), and this complex is required for the protective function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09852 
PMCID: PMC3077893
PMID: 21368763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):368-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09857. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

RIP3 mediates the embryonic lethality of caspase-8-deficient mice.

Kaiser WJ(1), Upton JW, Long AB, Livingston-Rosanoff D, Daley-Bauer LP, Hakem R, 
Caspary T, Mocarski ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA. wkaiser@emory.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):310-2.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 May;12(5):279.

Apoptosis and necroptosis are complementary pathways controlled by common
signalling adaptors, kinases and proteases; among these, caspase-8 (Casp8) is
critical for death receptor-induced apoptosis. This caspase has also been
implicated in non-apoptotic pathways that regulate Fas-associated via death
domain (FADD)-dependent signalling and other less defined biological processes as
diverse as innate immune signalling and myeloid or lymphoid differentiation
patterns. Casp8 suppresses RIP3-RIP1 (also known as RIPK3-RIPK1) kinase
complex-dependent necroptosis that follows death receptor activation as well as a
RIP3-dependent, RIP1-independent necrotic pathway that has emerged as a host
defence mechanism against murine cytomegalovirus. Disruption of Casp8 expression 
leads to embryonic lethality in mice between embryonic days 10.5 and 11.5 (ref.
7). Thus, Casp8 may naturally hold alternative RIP3-dependent death pathways in
check in addition to promoting apoptosis. We find that RIP3 is responsible for
the mid-gestational death of Casp8-deficient embryos. Remarkably,
Casp8(-/-)Rip3(-/-) double mutant mice are viable and mature into fertile adults 
with a full immune complement of myeloid and lymphoid cell types. These mice seem
immunocompetent but develop lymphadenopathy by four months of age marked by
accumulation of abnormal T cells in the periphery, a phenotype reminiscent of
mice with Fas-deficiency (lpr/lpr; also known as Fas). Thus, Casp8 contributes to
homeostatic control in the adult immune system; however, RIP3 and Casp8 are
together completely dispensable for mammalian development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09857 
PMCID: PMC3060292
PMID: 21368762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):373-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09878. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

Functional complementation between FADD and RIP1 in embryos and lymphocytes.

Zhang H(1), Zhou X, McQuade T, Li J, Chan FK, Zhang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 22;483(7390):498.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):310-2.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 May;12(5):279.

FADD is a common adaptor shared by several death receptors for signalling
apoptosis through recruitment and activation of caspase 8 (refs 1-3). Death
receptors are essential for immune homeostasis, but dispensable during
embryogenesis. Surprisingly, Fadd(-/-) mice die in utero and conditional deletion
of FADD leads to impaired lymphocyte proliferation. How FADD regulates
embryogenesis and lymphocyte responses has been a long-standing enigma. FADD
could directly bind to RIP1 (also known as RIPK1), a serine/threonine kinase that
mediates both necrosis and NF-κB activation. Here we show that Fadd(-/-) embryos 
contain raised levels of RIP1 and exhibit massive necrosis. To investigate a
potential in vivo functional interaction between RIP1 and FADD, null alleles of
RIP1 were crossed into Fadd(-/-) mice. Notably, RIP1 deficiency allowed normal
embryogenesis of Fadd(-/-) mice. Conversely, the developmental defect of
Rip1(-/-) lymphocytes was partially corrected by FADD deletion. Furthermore, RIP1
deficiency fully restored normal proliferation in Fadd(-/-) T cells but not in
Fadd(-/-) B cells. Fadd(-/-)Rip1(-/-) double-knockout T cells are resistant to
death induced by Fas or TNF-α and show reduced NF-κB activity. Therefore, our
data demonstrate an unexpected cell-type-specific interplay between FADD and
RIP1, which is critical for the regulation of apoptosis and necrosis during
embryogenesis and lymphocyte function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09878 
PMCID: PMC3072026
PMID: 21368761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):331-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09780. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

Structure and mechanism of the hexameric MecA-ClpC molecular machine.

Wang F(1), Mei Z, Qi Y, Yan C, Hu Q, Wang J, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Structural Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Regulated proteolysis by ATP-dependent proteases is universal in all living
cells. Bacterial ClpC, a member of the Clp/Hsp100 family of AAA+ proteins
(ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities) with two nucleotide-binding
domains (D1 and D2), requires the adaptor protein MecA for activation and
substrate targeting. The activated, hexameric MecA-ClpC molecular machine
harnesses the energy of ATP binding and hydrolysis to unfold specific substrate
proteins and translocate the unfolded polypeptide to the ClpP protease for
degradation. Here we report three related crystal structures: a heterodimer
between MecA and the amino domain of ClpC, a heterododecamer between MecA and
D2-deleted ClpC, and a hexameric complex between MecA and full-length ClpC. In
conjunction with biochemical analyses, these structures reveal the organizational
principles behind the hexameric MecA-ClpC complex, explain the molecular
mechanisms for MecA-mediated ClpC activation and provide mechanistic insights
into the function of the MecA-ClpC molecular machine. These findings have
implications for related Clp/Hsp100 molecular machines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09780 
PMID: 21368759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):377-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09754. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

MHC class II transactivator CIITA is a recurrent gene fusion partner in lymphoid 
cancers.

Steidl C(1), Shah SP, Woolcock BW, Rui L, Kawahara M, Farinha P, Johnson NA, Zhao
Y, Telenius A, Neriah SB, McPherson A, Meissner B, Okoye UC, Diepstra A, van den 
Berg A, Sun M, Leung G, Jones SJ, Connors JM, Huntsman DG, Savage KJ, Rimsza LM, 
Horsman DE, Staudt LM, Steidl U, Marra MA, Gascoyne RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Centre for Lymphoid Cancers
and the Centre for Translational and Applied Genomics, Vancouver, British
Columbia, V5Z4E6, Canada.

Chromosomal translocations are critically involved in the molecular pathogenesis 
of B-cell lymphomas, and highly recurrent and specific rearrangements have
defined distinct molecular subtypes linked to unique clinicopathological
features. In contrast, several well-characterized lymphoma entities still lack
disease-defining translocation events. To identify novel fusion transcripts
resulting from translocations, we investigated two Hodgkin lymphoma cell lines by
whole-transcriptome paired-end sequencing (RNA-seq). Here we show a highly
expressed gene fusion involving the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 
II transactivator CIITA (MHC2TA) in KM-H2 cells. In a subsequent evaluation of
263 B-cell lymphomas, we also demonstrate that genomic CIITA breaks are highly
recurrent in primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (38%) and classical Hodgkin
lymphoma (cHL) (15%). Furthermore, we find that CIITA is a promiscuous partner of
various in-frame gene fusions, and we report that CIITA gene alterations impact
survival in primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL). As functional
consequences of CIITA gene fusions, we identify downregulation of surface HLA
class II expression and overexpression of ligands of the receptor molecule
programmed cell death 1 (CD274/PDL1 and CD273/PDL2). These receptor-ligand
interactions have been shown to impact anti-tumour immune responses in several
cancers, whereas decreased MHC class II expression has been linked to reduced
tumour cell immunogenicity. Thus, our findings suggest that recurrent
rearrangements of CIITA may represent a novel genetic mechanism underlying
tumour-microenvironment interactions across a spectrum of lymphoid cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09754 
PMCID: PMC3902849
PMID: 21368758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):336-40. doi: 10.1038/nature09731. Epub 2011 Feb 13.

Crystal structure of a potassium ion transporter, TrkH.

Cao Y(1), Jin X, Huang H, Derebe MG, Levin EJ, Kabaleeswaran V, Pan Y, Punta M,
Love J, Weng J, Quick M, Ye S, Kloss B, Bruni R, Martinez-Hackert E, Hendrickson 
WA, Rost B, Javitch JA, Rajashankar KR, Jiang Y, Zhou M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street, New York, New York 10032,
USA.

The TrkH/TrkG/KtrB proteins mediate K(+) uptake in bacteria and probably evolved 
from simple K(+) channels by multiple gene duplications or fusions. Here we
present the crystal structure of a TrkH from Vibrio parahaemolyticus. TrkH is a
homodimer, and each protomer contains an ion permeation pathway. A selectivity
filter, similar in architecture to those of K(+) channels but significantly
shorter, is lined by backbone and side-chain oxygen atoms. Functional studies
showed that TrkH is selective for permeation of K(+) and Rb(+) over smaller ions 
such as Na(+) or Li(+). Immediately intracellular to the selectivity filter are
an intramembrane loop and an arginine residue, both highly conserved, which
constrict the permeation pathway. Substituting the arginine with an alanine
significantly increases the rate of K(+) flux. These results reveal the molecular
basis of K(+) selectivity and suggest a novel gating mechanism for this large and
important family of membrane transport proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09731 
PMCID: PMC3077569
PMID: 21317882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):325-30. doi: 10.1038/nature09830. Epub 2011 Feb 6.

DICER1 deficit induces Alu RNA toxicity in age-related macular degeneration.

Kaneko H(1), Dridi S, Tarallo V, Gelfand BD, Fowler BJ, Cho WG, Kleinman ME,
Ponicsan SL, Hauswirth WW, Chiodo VA, Karikó K, Yoo JW, Lee DK, Hadziahmetovic M,
Song Y, Misra S, Chaudhuri G, Buaas FW, Braun RE, Hinton DR, Zhang Q,
Grossniklaus HE, Provis JM, Madigan MC, Milam AH, Justice NL, Albuquerque RJ,
Blandford AD, Bogdanovich S, Hirano Y, Witta J, Fuchs E, Littman DR, Ambati BK,
Rudin CM, Chong MM, Provost P, Kugel JF, Goodrich JA, Dunaief JL, Baffi JZ,
Ambati J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, Kentucky 40506, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 17;471(7338):308-9.

Geographic atrophy (GA), an untreatable advanced form of age-related macular
degeneration, results from retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) cell degeneration. 
Here we show that the microRNA (miRNA)-processing enzyme DICER1 is reduced in the
RPE of humans with GA, and that conditional ablation of Dicer1, but not seven
other miRNA-processing enzymes, induces RPE degeneration in mice. DICER1
knockdown induces accumulation of Alu RNA in human RPE cells and Alu-like B1 and 
B2 RNAs in mouse RPE. Alu RNA is increased in the RPE of humans with GA, and this
pathogenic RNA induces human RPE cytotoxicity and RPE degeneration in mice.
Antisense oligonucleotides targeting Alu/B1/B2 RNAs prevent DICER1
depletion-induced RPE degeneration despite global miRNA downregulation. DICER1
degrades Alu RNA, and this digested Alu RNA cannot induce RPE degeneration in
mice. These findings reveal a miRNA-independent cell survival function for DICER1
involving retrotransposon transcript degradation, show that Alu RNA can directly 
cause human pathology, and identify new targets for a major cause of blindness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09830 
PMCID: PMC3077055
PMID: 21297615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):245-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09794.

Crucial role for DNA ligase III in mitochondria but not in Xrcc1-dependent
repair.

Simsek D(1), Furda A, Gao Y, Artus J, Brunet E, Hadjantonakis AK, Van Houten B,
Shuman S, McKinnon PJ, Jasin M.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA.

Mammalian cells have three ATP-dependent DNA ligases, which are required for DNA 
replication and repair. Homologues of ligase I (Lig1) and ligase IV (Lig4) are
ubiquitous in Eukarya, whereas ligase III (Lig3), which has nuclear and
mitochondrial forms, appears to be restricted to vertebrates. Lig3 is implicated 
in various DNA repair pathways with its partner protein Xrcc1 (ref. 1). Deletion 
of Lig3 results in early embryonic lethality in mice, as well as apparent
cellular lethality, which has precluded definitive characterization of Lig3
function. Here we used pre-emptive complementation to determine the viability
requirement for Lig3 in mammalian cells and its requirement in DNA repair.
Various forms of Lig3 were introduced stably into mouse embryonic stem (mES)
cells containing a conditional allele of Lig3 that could be deleted with Cre
recombinase. With this approach, we find that the mitochondrial, but not nuclear,
Lig3 is required for cellular viability. Although the catalytic function of Lig3 
is required, the zinc finger (ZnF) and BRCA1 carboxy (C)-terminal-related (BRCT) 
domains of Lig3 are not. Remarkably, the viability requirement for Lig3 can be
circumvented by targeting Lig1 to the mitochondria or expressing Chlorella virus 
DNA ligase, the minimal eukaryal nick-sealing enzyme, or Escherichia coli LigA,
an NAD(+)-dependent ligase. Lig3-null cells are not sensitive to several
DNA-damaging agents that sensitize Xrcc1-deficient cells. Our results establish a
role for Lig3 in mitochondria, but distinguish it from its interacting protein
Xrcc1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09794 
PMCID: PMC3261757
PMID: 21390132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09773.

DNA ligase III is critical for mtDNA integrity but not Xrcc1-mediated nuclear DNA
repair.

Gao Y(1), Katyal S, Lee Y, Zhao J, Rehg JE, Russell HR, McKinnon PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.

DNA replication and repair in mammalian cells involves three distinct DNA
ligases: ligase I (Lig1), ligase III (Lig3) and ligase IV (Lig4). Lig3 is
considered a key ligase during base excision repair because its stability depends
upon its nuclear binding partner Xrcc1, a critical factor for this DNA repair
pathway. Lig3 is also present in the mitochondria, where its role in
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) maintenance is independent of Xrcc1 (ref. 4). However, 
the biological role of Lig3 is unclear as inactivation of murine Lig3 results in 
early embryonic lethality. Here we report that Lig3 is essential for mtDNA
integrity but dispensable for nuclear DNA repair. Inactivation of Lig3 in the
mouse nervous system resulted in mtDNA loss leading to profound mitochondrial
dysfunction, disruption of cellular homeostasis and incapacitating ataxia.
Similarly, inactivation of Lig3 in cardiac muscle resulted in mitochondrial
dysfunction and defective heart-pump function leading to heart failure. However, 
Lig3 inactivation did not result in nuclear DNA repair deficiency, indicating
essential DNA repair functions of Xrcc1 can occur in the absence of Lig3.
Instead, we found that Lig1 was critical for DNA repair, but acted in a
cooperative manner with Lig3. Additionally, Lig3 deficiency did not recapitulate 
the hallmark features of neural Xrcc1 inactivation such as DNA damage-induced
cerebellar interneuron loss, further underscoring functional separation of these 
DNA repair factors. Therefore, our data reveal that the critical biological role 
of Lig3 is to maintain mtDNA integrity and not Xrcc1-dependent DNA repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09773 
PMCID: PMC3079429
PMID: 21390131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09727.

CREBBP mutations in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.

Mullighan CG(1), Zhang J, Kasper LH, Lerach S, Payne-Turner D, Phillips LA,
Heatley SL, Holmfeldt L, Collins-Underwood JR, Ma J, Buetow KH, Pui CH, Baker SD,
Brindle PK, Downing JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.

Relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is a leading cause of death due to
disease in young people, but the biological determinants of treatment failure
remain poorly understood. Recent genome-wide profiling of structural DNA
alterations in ALL have identified multiple submicroscopic somatic mutations
targeting key cellular pathways, and have demonstrated substantial evolution in
genetic alterations from diagnosis to relapse. However, DNA sequence mutations in
ALL have not been analysed in detail. To identify novel mutations in relapsed
ALL, we resequenced 300 genes in matched diagnosis and relapse samples from 23
patients with ALL. This identified 52 somatic non-synonymous mutations in 32
genes, many of which were novel, including the transcriptional coactivators
CREBBP and NCOR1, the transcription factors ERG, SPI1, TCF4 and TCF7L2,
components of the Ras signalling pathway, histone genes, genes involved in
histone modification (CREBBP and CTCF), and genes previously shown to be targets 
of recurring DNA copy number alteration in ALL. Analysis of an extended cohort of
71 diagnosis-relapse cases and 270 acute leukaemia cases that did not relapse
found that 18.3% of relapse cases had sequence or deletion mutations of CREBBP,
which encodes the transcriptional coactivator and histone acetyltransferase
CREB-binding protein (CREBBP, also known as CBP). The mutations were either
present at diagnosis or acquired at relapse, and resulted in truncated alleles or
deleterious substitutions in conserved residues of the histone acetyltransferase 
domain. Functionally, the mutations impaired histone acetylation and
transcriptional regulation of CREBBP targets, including glucocorticoid responsive
genes. Several mutations acquired at relapse were detected in subclones at
diagnosis, suggesting that the mutations may confer resistance to therapy. These 
results extend the landscape of genetic alterations in leukaemia, and identify
mutations targeting transcriptional and epigenetic regulation as a mechanism of
resistance in ALL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09727 
PMCID: PMC3076610
PMID: 21390130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09774.

Human-specific loss of regulatory DNA and the evolution of human-specific traits.

McLean CY(1), Reno PL, Pollen AA, Bassan AI, Capellini TD, Guenther C, Indjeian
VB, Lim X, Menke DB, Schaar BT, Wenger AM, Bejerano G, Kingsley DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2011 Nov;60(5):1123-4.

Humans differ from other animals in many aspects of anatomy, physiology, and
behaviour; however, the genotypic basis of most human-specific traits remains
unknown. Recent whole-genome comparisons have made it possible to identify genes 
with elevated rates of amino acid change or divergent expression in humans, and
non-coding sequences with accelerated base pair changes. Regulatory alterations
may be particularly likely to produce phenotypic effects while preserving
viability, and are known to underlie interesting evolutionary differences in
other species. Here we identify molecular events particularly likely to produce
significant regulatory changes in humans: complete deletion of sequences
otherwise highly conserved between chimpanzees and other mammals. We confirm 510 
such deletions in humans, which fall almost exclusively in non-coding regions and
are enriched near genes involved in steroid hormone signalling and neural
function. One deletion removes a sensory vibrissae and penile spine enhancer from
the human androgen receptor (AR) gene, a molecular change correlated with
anatomical loss of androgen-dependent sensory vibrissae and penile spines in the 
human lineage. Another deletion removes a forebrain subventricular zone enhancer 
near the tumour suppressor gene growth arrest and DNA-damage-inducible, gamma
(GADD45G), a loss correlated with expansion of specific brain regions in humans. 
Deletions of tissue-specific enhancers may thus accompany both loss and gain
traits in the human lineage, and provide specific examples of the kinds of
regulatory alterations and inactivation events long proposed to have an important
role in human evolutionary divergence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09774 
PMCID: PMC3071156
PMID: 21390129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):209-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09777.

Permanent El Niño during the Pliocene warm period not supported by coral
evidence.

Watanabe T(1), Suzuki A, Minobe S, Kawashima T, Kameo K, Minoshima K, Aguilar YM,
Wani R, Kawahata H, Sowa K, Nagai T, Kase T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural History Sciences, Faculty of Science, Hokkaido
University, Sapporo 060-0810, Japan. nabe@mail.sci.hokudai.ac.jp

The El Niño/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) system during the Pliocene warm period
(PWP; 3-5 million years ago) may have existed in a permanent El Niño state with a
sharply reduced zonal sea surface temperature (SST) gradient in the equatorial
Pacific Ocean. This suggests that during the PWP, when global mean temperatures
and atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations were similar to those projected for
near-term climate change, ENSO variability--and related global climate
teleconnections-could have been radically different from that today. Yet, owing
to a lack of observational evidence on seasonal and interannual SST variability
from crucial low-latitude sites, this fundamental climate characteristic of the
PWP remains controversial. Here we show that permanent El Niño conditions did not
exist during the PWP. Our spectral analysis of the δ(18)O SST and salinity proxy,
extracted from two 35-year, monthly resolved PWP Porites corals in the
Philippines, reveals variability that is similar to present ENSO variation.
Although our fossil corals cannot be directly compared with modern ENSO records, 
two lines of evidence suggest that Philippine corals are appropriate ENSO
proxies. First, δ(18)O anomalies from a nearby live Porites coral are correlated 
with modern records of ENSO variability. Second, negative-δ(18)O events in the
fossil corals closely resemble the decreases in δ(18)O seen in the live coral
during El Niño events. Prior research advocating a permanent El Niño state may
have been limited by the coarse resolution of many SST proxies, whereas our
coral-based analysis identifies climate variability at the temporal scale
required to resolve ENSO structure firmly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09777 
PMID: 21390128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):204-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09898.

Circuit cavity electromechanics in the strong-coupling regime.

Teufel JD(1), Li D, Allman MS, Cicak K, Sirois AJ, Whittaker JD, Simmonds RW.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Standards and Technology, 325 Broadway, Boulder,
Colorado 80305, USA. john.teufel@nist.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):168-9.

Demonstrating and exploiting the quantum nature of macroscopic mechanical objects
would help us to investigate directly the limitations of quantum-based
measurements and quantum information protocols, as well as to test long-standing 
questions about macroscopic quantum coherence. Central to this effort is the
necessity of long-lived mechanical states. Previous efforts have witnessed
quantum behaviour, but for a low-quality-factor mechanical system. The field of
cavity optomechanics and electromechanics, in which a high-quality-factor
mechanical oscillator is parametrically coupled to an electromagnetic cavity
resonance, provides a practical architecture for cooling, manipulation and
detection of motion at the quantum level. One requirement is strong coupling, in 
which the interaction between the two systems is faster than the dissipation of
energy from either system. Here, by incorporating a free-standing, flexible
aluminium membrane into a lumped-element superconducting resonant cavity, we have
increased the single-photon coupling strength between these two systems by more
than two orders of magnitude, compared to previously obtained coupling strengths.
A parametric drive tone at the difference frequency between the mechanical
oscillator and the cavity resonance dramatically increases the overall coupling
strength, allowing us to completely enter the quantum-enabled, strong-coupling
regime. This is evidenced by a maximum normal-mode splitting of nearly six bare
cavity linewidths. Spectroscopic measurements of these 'dressed states' are in
excellent quantitative agreement with recent theoretical predictions. The basic
circuit architecture presented here provides a feasible path to ground-state
cooling and subsequent coherent control and measurement of long-lived quantum
states of mechanical motion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09898 
PMID: 21390127 


714. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):189-95. doi: 10.1038/nature09730.

Inactivating mutations of acetyltransferase genes in B-cell lymphoma.

Pasqualucci L(1), Dominguez-Sola D, Chiarenza A, Fabbri G, Grunn A, Trifonov V,
Kasper LH, Lerach S, Tang H, Ma J, Rossi D, Chadburn A, Murty VV, Mullighan CG,
Gaidano G, Rabadan R, Brindle PK, Dalla-Favera R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics, Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA. lp171@columbia.edu

B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma comprises biologically and clinically distinct
diseases the pathogenesis of which is associated with genetic lesions affecting
oncogenes and tumour-suppressor genes. We report here that the two most common
types--follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma--harbour frequent
structural alterations inactivating CREBBP and, more rarely, EP300, two highly
related histone and non-histone acetyltransferases (HATs) that act as
transcriptional co-activators in multiple signalling pathways. Overall, about 39%
of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and 41% of follicular lymphoma cases display
genomic deletions and/or somatic mutations that remove or inactivate the HAT
coding domain of these two genes. These lesions usually affect one allele,
suggesting that reduction in HAT dosage is important for lymphomagenesis. We
demonstrate specific defects in acetylation-mediated inactivation of the BCL6
oncoprotein and activation of the p53 tumour suppressor. These results identify
CREBBP/EP300 mutations as a major pathogenetic mechanism shared by common forms
of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, with direct implications for the use of drugs
targeting acetylation/deacetylation mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09730 
PMCID: PMC3271441
PMID: 21390126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):183-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09818.

Wiring specificity in the direction-selectivity circuit of the retina.

Briggman KL(1), Helmstaedter M, Denk W.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Medical Research, Department of Biomedical Optics,
Heidelberg 69120, Germany. briggman@mpimf-heidelberg.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):170-2.
    Nat Methods. 2011 May;8(5):369.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 May;12(5):245.

The proper connectivity between neurons is essential for the implementation of
the algorithms used in neural computations, such as the detection of directed
motion by the retina. The analysis of neuronal connectivity is possible with
electron microscopy, but technological limitations have impeded the acquisition
of high-resolution data on a large enough scale. Here we show, using serial
block-face electron microscopy and two-photon calcium imaging, that the dendrites
of mouse starburst amacrine cells make highly specific synapses with
direction-selective ganglion cells depending on the ganglion cell's preferred
direction. Our findings indicate that a structural (wiring) asymmetry contributes
to the computation of direction selectivity. The nature of this asymmetry
supports some models of direction selectivity and rules out others. It also puts 
constraints on the developmental mechanisms behind the formation of synaptic
connections. Our study demonstrates how otherwise intractable neurobiological
questions can be addressed by combining functional imaging with the analysis of
neuronal connectivity using large-scale electron microscopy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09818 
PMID: 21390125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):177-82. doi: 10.1038/nature09802.

Network anatomy and in vivo physiology of visual cortical neurons.

Bock DD(1), Lee WC, Kerlin AM, Andermann ML, Hood G, Wetzel AW, Yurgenson S,
Soucy ER, Kim HS, Reid RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):170-2.
    Nat Methods. 2011 May;8(5):369.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 May;12(5):245.

In the cerebral cortex, local circuits consist of tens of thousands of neurons,
each of which makes thousands of synaptic connections. Perhaps the biggest
impediment to understanding these networks is that we have no wiring diagrams of 
their interconnections. Even if we had a partial or complete wiring diagram,
however, understanding the network would also require information about each
neuron's function. Here we show that the relationship between structure and
function can be studied in the cortex with a combination of in vivo physiology
and network anatomy. We used two-photon calcium imaging to characterize a
functional property--the preferred stimulus orientation--of a group of neurons in
the mouse primary visual cortex. Large-scale electron microscopy of serial thin
sections was then used to trace a portion of these neurons' local network.
Consistent with a prediction from recent physiological experiments, inhibitory
interneurons received convergent anatomical input from nearby excitatory neurons 
with a broad range of preferred orientations, although weak biases could not be
rejected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09802 
PMCID: PMC3095821
PMID: 21390124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09799. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

A rapid mechanism to remobilize and homogenize highly crystalline magma bodies.

Burgisser A(1), Bergantz GW.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans, CNRS/INSU, Université d'Orléans, 
45071 Orléans cedex 2, France. burgisse@cnrs-orleans.fr

The largest products of magmatic activity on Earth, the great bodies of granite
and their corresponding large eruptions, have a dual nature: homogeneity at the
large scale and spatial and temporal heterogeneity at the small scale. This
duality calls for a mechanism that selectively removes the large-scale
heterogeneities associated with the incremental assembly of these magmatic
systems and yet occurs rapidly despite crystal-rich, viscous conditions seemingly
resistant to mixing. Here we show that a simple dynamic template can unify a wide
range of apparently contradictory observations from both large plutonic bodies
and volcanic systems by a mechanism of rapid remobilization (unzipping) of highly
viscous crystal-rich mushes. We demonstrate that this remobilization can lead to 
rapid overturn and produce the observed juxtaposition of magmatic materials with 
very disparate ages and complex chemical zoning. What distinguishes our model is 
the recognition that the process has two stages. Initially, a stiff mushy magma
is reheated from below, producing a reduction in crystallinity that leads to the 
growth of a subjacent buoyant mobile layer. When the thickening mobile layer
becomes sufficiently buoyant, it penetrates the overlying viscous mushy magma.
This second stage rapidly exports homogenized material from the lower mobile
layer to the top of the system, and leads to partial overturn within the viscous 
mush itself as an additional mechanism of mixing. Model outputs illustrate that
unzipping can rapidly produce large amounts of mobile magma available for
eruption. The agreement between calculated and observed unzipping rates for
historical eruptions at Pinatubo and at Montserrat demonstrates the general
applicability of the model. This mechanism furthers our understanding of both the
formation of periodically homogenized plutons (crust building) and of ignimbrites
by large eruptions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09799 
PMID: 21368760 


718. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):200-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09800. Epub 2011 Feb 23.

Trapped-ion antennae for the transmission of quantum information.

Harlander M(1), Lechner R, Brownnutt M, Blatt R, Hänsel W.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstraße 25,
A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

More than 100 years ago, Hertz succeeded in transmitting signals over a few
metres to a receiving antenna using an electromagnetic oscillator, thus proving
the electromagnetic theory developed by Maxwell. Since this seminal work,
technology has developed, and various oscillators are now available at the
quantum mechanical level. For quantized electromagnetic oscillations, atoms in
cavities can be used to couple electric fields. However, a quantum mechanical
link between two mechanical oscillators (such as cantilevers or the vibrational
modes of trapped atoms or ions) has been rarely demonstrated and has been
achieved only indirectly. Examples include the mechanical transport of atoms
carrying quantum information or the use of spontaneously emitted photons. Here we
achieve direct coupling between the motional dipoles of separately trapped ions
over a distance of 54 micrometres, using the dipole-dipole interaction as a
quantum mechanical transmission line. This interaction is small between single
trapped ions, but the coupling is amplified by using additional trapped ions as
antennae. With three ions in each well, the interaction is increased by a factor 
of seven compared to the single-ion case. This enhancement facilitates bridging
of larger distances and relaxes the constraints on the miniaturization of trap
electrodes. The system provides a building block for quantum computers and
opportunities for coupling different types of quantum systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09800 
PMID: 21346764 


719. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09721. Epub 2011 Feb 23.

Coupled quantized mechanical oscillators.

Brown KR(1), Ospelkaus C, Colombe Y, Wilson AC, Leibfried D, Wineland DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Time and Frequency Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
325 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA. kenton.brown@nist.gov

The harmonic oscillator is one of the simplest physical systems but also one of
the most fundamental. It is ubiquitous in nature, often serving as an
approximation for a more complicated system or as a building block in larger
models. Realizations of harmonic oscillators in the quantum regime include
electromagnetic fields in a cavity and the mechanical modes of a trapped atom or 
macroscopic solid. Quantized interaction between two motional modes of an
individual trapped ion has been achieved by coupling through optical fields, and 
entangled motion of two ions in separate locations has been accomplished
indirectly through their internal states. However, direct controllable coupling
between quantized mechanical oscillators held in separate locations has not been 
realized previously. Here we implement such coupling through the mutual Coulomb
interaction of two ions held in trapping potentials separated by 40 μm (similar
work is reported in a related paper). By tuning the confining wells into
resonance, energy is exchanged between the ions at the quantum level,
establishing that direct coherent motional coupling is possible for separately
trapped ions. The system demonstrates a building block for quantum information
processing and quantum simulation. More broadly, this work is a natural precursor
to experiments in hybrid quantum systems, such as coupling a trapped ion to a
quantized macroscopic mechanical or electrical oscillator.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09721 
PMID: 21346762 


720. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature09785. Epub 2011 Feb 23.

Structural basis of RNA polymerase II backtracking, arrest and reactivation.

Cheung AC(1), Cramer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München,
Feodor-Lynen-Str. 25, 81377 Munich, Germany.

During gene transcription, RNA polymerase (Pol) II moves forwards along DNA and
synthesizes messenger RNA. However, at certain DNA sequences, Pol II moves
backwards, and such backtracking can arrest transcription. Arrested Pol II is
reactivated by transcription factor IIS (TFIIS), which induces RNA cleavage that 
is required for cell viability. Pol II arrest and reactivation are involved in
transcription through nucleosomes and in promoter-proximal gene regulation. Here 
we present X-ray structures at 3.3 Å resolution of an arrested Saccharomyces
cerevisiae Pol II complex with DNA and RNA, and of a reactivation intermediate
that additionally contains TFIIS. In the arrested complex, eight nucleotides of
backtracked RNA bind a conserved 'backtrack site' in the Pol II pore and funnel, 
trapping the active centre trigger loop and inhibiting mRNA elongation. In the
reactivation intermediate, TFIIS locks the trigger loop away from backtracked
RNA, displaces RNA from the backtrack site, and complements the polymerase active
site with a basic and two acidic residues that may catalyse proton transfers
during RNA cleavage. The active site is demarcated from the backtrack site by a
'gating tyrosine' residue that probably delimits backtracking. These results
establish the structural basis of Pol II backtracking, arrest and reactivation,
and provide a framework for analysing gene regulation during transcription
elongation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09785 
PMID: 21346759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):220-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09849. Epub 2011 Feb 9.

Co-adjuvant effects of retinoic acid and IL-15 induce inflammatory immunity to
dietary antigens.

DePaolo RW(1), Abadie V, Tang F, Fehlner-Peach H, Hall JA, Wang W, Marietta EV,
Kasarda DD, Waldmann TA, Murray JA, Semrad C, Kupfer SS, Belkaid Y, Guandalini S,
Jabri B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Jun;5(3):315-7.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):169-70.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Mar;11(3):156.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Apr;8(4):181.

Under physiological conditions the gut-associated lymphoid tissues not only
prevent the induction of a local inflammatory immune response, but also induce
systemic tolerance to fed antigens. A notable exception is coeliac disease, where
genetically susceptible individuals expressing human leukocyte antigen (HLA)
HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8 molecules develop inflammatory T-cell and antibody responses
against dietary gluten, a protein present in wheat. The mechanisms underlying
this dysregulated mucosal immune response to a soluble antigen have not been
identified. Retinoic acid, a metabolite of vitamin A, has been shown to have a
critical role in the induction of intestinal regulatory responses. Here we find
in mice that in conjunction with IL-15, a cytokine greatly upregulated in the gut
of coeliac disease patients, retinoic acid rapidly activates dendritic cells to
induce JNK (also known as MAPK8) phosphorylation and release the proinflammatory 
cytokines IL-12p70 and IL-23. As a result, in a stressed intestinal environment, 
retinoic acid acted as an adjuvant that promoted rather than prevented
inflammatory cellular and humoral responses to fed antigen. Altogether, these
findings reveal an unexpected role for retinoic acid and IL-15 in the abrogation 
of tolerance to dietary antigens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09849 
PMCID: PMC3076739
PMID: 21307853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):230-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09855. Epub 2011 Feb 9.

Using induced pluripotent stem cells to investigate cardiac phenotypes in Timothy
syndrome.

Yazawa M(1), Hsueh B, Jia X, Pasca AM, Bernstein JA, Hallmayer J, Dolmetsch RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305, USA.

Individuals with congenital or acquired prolongation of the QT interval, or long 
QT syndrome (LQTS), are at risk of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia. LQTS 
is commonly genetic in origin but can also be caused or exacerbated by
environmental factors. A missense mutation in the L-type calcium channel Ca(V)1.2
leads to LQTS in patients with Timothy syndrome. To explore the effect of the
Timothy syndrome mutation on the electrical activity and contraction of human
cardiomyocytes, we reprogrammed human skin cells from Timothy syndrome patients
to generate induced pluripotent stem cells, and differentiated these cells into
cardiomyocytes. Electrophysiological recording and calcium (Ca(2+)) imaging
studies of these cells revealed irregular contraction, excess Ca(2+) influx,
prolonged action potentials, irregular electrical activity and abnormal calcium
transients in ventricular-like cells. We found that roscovitine, a compound that 
increases the voltage-dependent inactivation of Ca(V)1.2 (refs 6-8), restored the
electrical and Ca(2+) signalling properties of cardiomyocytes from Timothy
syndrome patients. This study provides new opportunities for studying the
molecular and cellular mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias in humans, and provides 
a robust assay for developing new drugs to treat these diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09855 
PMCID: PMC3077925
PMID: 21307850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):225-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09747. Epub 2011 Jan 16.

Modelling the long QT syndrome with induced pluripotent stem cells.

Itzhaki I(1), Maizels L, Huber I, Zwi-Dantsis L, Caspi O, Winterstern A, Feldman 
O, Gepstein A, Arbel G, Hammerman H, Boulos M, Gepstein L.

Author information: 
(1)Sohnis Family Research Laboratory for Cardiac Electrophysiology and
Regenerative Medicine, Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion - Israel
Institute of Technology, POB 9649, Haifa 31096, Israel.

The ability to generate patient-specific human induced pluripotent stem cells
(iPSCs) offers a new paradigm for modelling human disease and for individualizing
drug testing. Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a familial arrhythmogenic
syndrome characterized by abnormal ion channel function and sudden cardiac death.
Here we report the development of a patient/disease-specific human iPSC line from
a patient with type-2 LQTS (which is due to the A614V missense mutation in the
KCNH2 gene). The generated iPSCs were coaxed to differentiate into the cardiac
lineage. Detailed whole-cell patch-clamp and extracellular multielectrode
recordings revealed significant prolongation of the action-potential duration in 
LQTS human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (the characteristic LQTS phenotype) when
compared to healthy control cells. Voltage-clamp studies confirmed that this
action-potential-duration prolongation stems from a significant reduction of the 
cardiac potassium current I(Kr). Importantly, LQTS-derived cells also showed
marked arrhythmogenicity, characterized by early-after depolarizations and
triggered arrhythmias. We then used the LQTS human iPSC-derived cardiac-tissue
model to evaluate the potency of existing and novel pharmacological agents that
may either aggravate (potassium-channel blockers) or ameliorate (calcium-channel 
blockers, K(ATP)-channel openers and late sodium-channel blockers) the disease
phenotype. Our study illustrates the ability of human iPSC technology to model
the abnormal functional phenotype of an inherited cardiac disorder and to
identify potential new therapeutic agents. As such, it represents a promising
paradigm to study disease mechanisms, optimize patient care (personalized
medicine), and aid in the development of new therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09747 
PMID: 21240260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):119-23. doi: 10.1038/nature09755.

The RAG2 C terminus suppresses genomic instability and lymphomagenesis.

Deriano L(1), Chaumeil J, Coussens M, Multani A, Chou Y, Alekseyenko AV, Chang S,
Skok JA, Roth DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY 
10016, USA.

Misrepair of DNA double-strand breaks produced by the V(D)J recombinase (the
RAG1/RAG2 proteins) at immunoglobulin (Ig) and T cell receptor (Tcr) loci has
been implicated in pathogenesis of lymphoid malignancies in humans and in mice.
Defects in DNA damage response factors such as ataxia telangiectasia mutated
(ATM) protein and combined deficiencies in classical non-homologous end joining
and p53 predispose to RAG-initiated genomic rearrangements and lymphomagenesis.
Although we showed previously that RAG1/RAG2 shepherd the broken DNA ends to
classical non-homologous end joining for proper repair, roles for the RAG
proteins in preserving genomic stability remain poorly defined. Here we show that
the RAG2 carboxy (C) terminus, although dispensable for recombination, is
critical for maintaining genomic stability. Thymocytes from 'core' Rag2
homozygotes (Rag2(c/c) mice) show dramatic disruption of Tcrα/δ locus integrity. 
Furthermore, all Rag2(c/c) p53(-/-) mice, unlike Rag1(c/c) p53(-/-) and p53(-/-) 
animals, rapidly develop thymic lymphomas bearing complex chromosomal
translocations, amplifications and deletions involving the Tcrα/δ and Igh loci.
We also find these features in lymphomas from Atm(-/-) mice. We show that, like
ATM-deficiency, core RAG2 severely destabilizes the RAG post-cleavage complex.
These results reveal a novel genome guardian role for RAG2 and suggest that
similar 'end release/end persistence' mechanisms underlie genomic instability and
lymphomagenesis in Rag2(c/c) p53(-/-) and Atm(-/-) mice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09755 
PMCID: PMC3174233
PMID: 21368836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):115-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09757.

X chromosome dosage compensation via enhanced transcriptional elongation in
Drosophila.

Larschan E(1), Bishop EP, Kharchenko PV, Core LJ, Lis JT, Park PJ, Kuroda MI.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The evolution of sex chromosomes has resulted in numerous species in which
females inherit two X chromosomes but males have a single X, thus requiring
dosage compensation. MSL (Male-specific lethal) complex increases transcription
on the single X chromosome of Drosophila males to equalize expression of X-linked
genes between the sexes. The biochemical mechanisms used for dosage compensation 
must function over a wide dynamic range of transcription levels and differential 
expression patterns. It has been proposed that the MSL complex regulates
transcriptional elongation to control dosage compensation, a model subsequently
supported by mapping of the MSL complex and MSL-dependent histone 4 lysine 16
acetylation to the bodies of X-linked genes in males, with a bias towards 3'
ends. However, experimental analysis of MSL function at the mechanistic level has
been challenging owing to the small magnitude of the chromosome-wide effect and
the lack of an in vitro system for biochemical analysis. Here we use global
run-on sequencing (GRO-seq) to examine the specific effect of the MSL complex on 
RNA Polymerase II (RNAP II) on a genome-wide level. Results indicate that the MSL
complex enhances transcription by facilitating the progression of RNAP II across 
the bodies of active X-linked genes. Improving transcriptional output downstream 
of typical gene-specific controls may explain how dosage compensation can be
imposed on the diverse set of genes along an entire chromosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09757 
PMCID: PMC3076316
PMID: 21368835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09779.

Sensitivity to antitubulin chemotherapeutics is regulated by MCL1 and FBW7.

Wertz IE(1), Kusam S, Lam C, Okamoto T, Sandoval W, Anderson DJ, Helgason E,
Ernst JA, Eby M, Liu J, Belmont LD, Kaminker JS, O'Rourke KM, Pujara K, Kohli PB,
Johnson AR, Chiu ML, Lill JR, Jackson PK, Fairbrother WJ, Seshagiri S, Ludlam MJ,
Leong KG, Dueber EC, Maecker H, Huang DC, Dixit VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Early Discovery Biochemistry, Genentech, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA. ingrid@gene.com

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):122.

Comment in
    Pharmacogenomics. 2011 Oct;12(10):1379-80.

Microtubules have pivotal roles in fundamental cellular processes and are targets
of antitubulin chemotherapeutics. Microtubule-targeted agents such as Taxol and
vincristine are prescribed widely for various malignancies, including ovarian and
breast adenocarcinomas, non-small-cell lung cancer, leukaemias and lymphomas.
These agents arrest cells in mitosis and subsequently induce cell death through
poorly defined mechanisms. The strategies that resistant tumour cells use to
evade death induced by antitubulin agents are also unclear. Here we show that the
pro-survival protein MCL1 (ref. 3) is a crucial regulator of apoptosis triggered 
by antitubulin chemotherapeutics. During mitotic arrest, MCL1 protein levels
decline markedly, through a post-translational mechanism, potentiating cell
death. Phosphorylation of MCL1 directs its interaction with the tumour-suppressor
protein FBW7, which is the substrate-binding component of a ubiquitin ligase
complex. The polyubiquitylation of MCL1 then targets it for proteasomal
degradation. The degradation of MCL1 was blocked in patient-derived tumour cells 
that lacked FBW7 or had loss-of-function mutations in FBW7, conferring resistance
to antitubulin agents and promoting chemotherapeutic-induced polyploidy.
Additionally, primary tumour samples were enriched for FBW7 inactivation and
elevated MCL1 levels, underscoring the prominent roles of these proteins in
oncogenesis. Our findings suggest that profiling the FBW7 and MCL1 status of
tumours, in terms of protein levels, messenger RNA levels and genetic status,
could be useful to predict the response of patients to antitubulin
chemotherapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09779 
PMID: 21368834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):104-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09732.

SCF(FBW7) regulates cellular apoptosis by targeting MCL1 for ubiquitylation and
destruction.

Inuzuka H(1), Shaik S, Onoyama I, Gao D, Tseng A, Maser RS, Zhai B, Wan L,
Gutierrez A, Lau AW, Xiao Y, Christie AL, Aster J, Settleman J, Gygi SP, Kung AL,
Look T, Nakayama KI, DePinho RA, Wei W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical
School, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

The effective use of targeted therapy is highly dependent on the identification
of responder patient populations. Loss of FBW7, which encodes a tumour-suppressor
protein, is frequently found in various types of human cancer, including breast
cancer, colon cancer and T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL). In line
with these genomic data, engineered deletion of Fbw7 in mouse T cells results in 
T-ALL, validating FBW7 as a T-ALL tumour suppressor. Determining the precise
molecular mechanisms by which FBW7 exerts antitumour activity is an area of
intensive investigation. These mechanisms are thought to relate in part to
FBW7-mediated destruction of key proteins relevant to cancer, including Jun, Myc,
cyclin E and notch 1 (ref. 9), all of which have oncoprotein activity and are
overexpressed in various human cancers, including leukaemia. In addition to
accelerating cell growth, overexpression of Jun, Myc or notch 1 can also induce
programmed cell death. Thus, considerable uncertainty surrounds how
FBW7-deficient cells evade cell death in the setting of upregulated Jun, Myc
and/or notch 1. Here we show that the E3 ubiquitin ligase SCF(FBW7) (a
SKP1-cullin-1-F-box complex that contains FBW7 as the F-box protein) governs
cellular apoptosis by targeting MCL1, a pro-survival BCL2 family member, for
ubiquitylation and destruction in a manner that depends on phosphorylation by
glycogen synthase kinase 3. Human T-ALL cell lines showed a close relationship
between FBW7 loss and MCL1 overexpression. Correspondingly, T-ALL cell lines with
defective FBW7 are particularly sensitive to the multi-kinase inhibitor sorafenib
but resistant to the BCL2 antagonist ABT-737. On the genetic level, FBW7
reconstitution or MCL1 depletion restores sensitivity to ABT-737, establishing
MCL1 as a therapeutically relevant bypass survival mechanism that enables
FBW7-deficient cells to evade apoptosis. Therefore, our work provides insight
into the molecular mechanism of direct tumour suppression by FBW7 and has
implications for the targeted treatment of patients with FBW7-deficient T-ALL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09732 
PMCID: PMC3076007
PMID: 21368833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature09765.

A tension-induced mechanotransduction pathway promotes epithelial morphogenesis.

Zhang H(1), Landmann F, Zahreddine H, Rodriguez D, Koch M, Labouesse M.

Author information: 
(1)Development and Stem Cells Program, IGBMC, CNRS (UMR7104), INSERM (U964),
Université de Strasbourg, 1 rue Laurent Fries, BP10142, 67400 Illkirch, France.

Mechanotransduction refers to the transformation of physical forces into chemical
signals. It generally involves stretch-sensitive channels or conformational
change of cytoskeleton-associated proteins. Mechanotransduction is crucial for
the physiology of several organs and for cell migration. The extent to which
mechanical inputs contribute to development, and how they do this, remains poorly
defined. Here we show that a mechanotransduction pathway operates between the
body-wall muscles of Caenorhabditis elegans and the epidermis. This pathway
involves, in addition to a Rac GTPase, three signalling proteins found at the
hemidesmosome: p21-activated kinase (PAK-1), the adaptor GIT-1 and its partner
PIX-1. The phosphorylation of intermediate filaments is one output of this
pathway. Tension exerted by adjacent muscles or externally exerted mechanical
pressure maintains GIT-1 at hemidesmosomes and stimulates PAK-1 activity through 
PIX-1 and Rac. This pathway promotes the maturation of a hemidesmosome into a
junction that can resist mechanical stress and contributes to coordinating the
morphogenesis of epidermal and muscle tissues. Our findings suggest that the C.
elegans hemidesmosome is not only an attachment structure, but also a
mechanosensor that responds to tension by triggering signalling processes. We
suggest that similar pathways could promote epithelial morphogenesis or wound
healing in other organisms in which epithelial cells adhere to tension-generating
contractile cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09765 
PMID: 21368832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):95-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09864.

Phylogenomic analyses unravel annelid evolution.

Struck TH(1), Paul C, Hill N, Hartmann S, Hösel C, Kube M, Lieb B, Meyer A,
Tiedemann R, Purschke G, Bleidorn C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Osnabrück, FB05 Biology/Chemistry, AG Zoology, Barbarastrasse
11, 49069 Osnabrück, Germany. struck@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):44-5.

Annelida, the ringed worms, is a highly diverse animal phylum that includes more 
than 15,000 described species and constitutes the dominant benthic macrofauna
from the intertidal zone down to the deep sea. A robust annelid phylogeny would
shape our understanding of animal body-plan evolution and shed light on the
bilaterian ground pattern. Traditionally, Annelida has been split into two major 
groups: Clitellata (earthworms and leeches) and polychaetes (bristle worms), but 
recent evidence suggests that other taxa that were once considered to be separate
phyla (Sipuncula, Echiura and Siboglinidae (also known as Pogonophora)) should be
included in Annelida. However, the deep-level evolutionary relationships of
Annelida are still poorly understood, and a robust reconstruction of annelid
evolutionary history is needed. Here we show that phylogenomic analyses of 34
annelid taxa, using 47,953 amino acid positions, recovered a well-supported
phylogeny with strong support for major splits. Our results recover
chaetopterids, myzostomids and sipunculids in the basal part of the tree,
although the position of Myzostomida remains uncertain owing to its long branch. 
The remaining taxa are split into two clades: Errantia (which includes the model 
annelid Platynereis), and Sedentaria (which includes Clitellata). Ancestral
character trait reconstructions indicate that these clades show adaptation to
either an errant or a sedentary lifestyle, with alteration of accompanying
morphological traits such as peristaltic movement, parapodia and sensory
perception. Finally, life history characters in Annelida seem to be
phylogenetically informative.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09864 
PMID: 21368831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):91-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09825.

Synchronicity of Antarctic temperatures and local solar insolation on orbital
timescales.

Laepple T(1), Werner M, Lohmann G.

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Bremerhaven, Germany. 
thomas.laepple@awi.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):45-6.
    Nature. 2011 Nov 10;479(7372):E1-2; author reply E2-4.

The Milankovitch theory states that global climate variability on orbital
timescales from tens to hundreds of thousands of years is dominated by the summer
insolation at high northern latitudes. The supporting evidence includes
reconstructed air temperatures in Antarctica that are nearly in phase with boreal
summer insolation and out of phase with local summer insolation. Antarctic
climate is therefore thought to be driven by northern summer insolation. A clear 
mechanism that links the two hemispheres on orbital timescales is, however,
missing. We propose that key Antarctic temperature records derived from ice cores
are biased towards austral winter because of a seasonal cycle in snow
accumulation. Using present-day estimates of this bias in the 'recorder' system, 
here we show that the local insolation can explain the orbital component of the
temperature record without having to invoke a link to the Northern Hemisphere.
Therefore, the Antarctic ice-core-derived temperature record, one of the
best-dated records of the late Pleistocene temperature evolution, cannot be used 
to support or contradict the Milankovitch hypothesis that global climate changes 
are driven by Northern Hemisphere summer insolation variations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09825 
PMID: 21368830 


731. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):87-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09770.

Quantum Metropolis sampling.

Temme K(1), Osborne TJ, Vollbrecht KG, Poulin D, Verstraete F.

Author information: 
(1)Vienna Center for Quantum Science & Technology, Fakultät für Physik,
Universität Wien, 1090 Wien, Austria.

The original motivation to build a quantum computer came from Feynman, who
imagined a machine capable of simulating generic quantum mechanical systems--a
task that is believed to be intractable for classical computers. Such a machine
could have far-reaching applications in the simulation of many-body quantum
physics in condensed-matter, chemical and high-energy systems. Part of Feynman's 
challenge was met by Lloyd, who showed how to approximately decompose the time
evolution operator of interacting quantum particles into a short sequence of
elementary gates, suitable for operation on a quantum computer. However, this
left open the problem of how to simulate the equilibrium and static properties of
quantum systems. This requires the preparation of ground and Gibbs states on a
quantum computer. For classical systems, this problem is solved by the ubiquitous
Metropolis algorithm, a method that has basically acquired a monopoly on the
simulation of interacting particles. Here we demonstrate how to implement a
quantum version of the Metropolis algorithm. This algorithm permits sampling
directly from the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian, and thus evades the sign
problem present in classical simulations. A small-scale implementation of this
algorithm should be achievable with today's technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09770 
PMID: 21368829 


732. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09887.

Spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates.

Lin YJ(1), Jiménez-García K, Spielman IB.

Author information: 
(1)Joint Quantum Institute, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
University of Maryland, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):41-2.

Spin-orbit (SO) coupling--the interaction between a quantum particle's spin and
its momentum--is ubiquitous in physical systems. In condensed matter systems, SO 
coupling is crucial for the spin-Hall effect and topological insulators; it
contributes to the electronic properties of materials such as GaAs, and is
important for spintronic devices. Quantum many-body systems of ultracold atoms
can be precisely controlled experimentally, and would therefore seem to provide
an ideal platform on which to study SO coupling. Although an atom's intrinsic SO 
coupling affects its electronic structure, it does not lead to coupling between
the spin and the centre-of-mass motion of the atom. Here, we engineer SO coupling
(with equal Rashba and Dresselhaus strengths) in a neutral atomic Bose-Einstein
condensate by dressing two atomic spin states with a pair of lasers. Such
coupling has not been realized previously for ultracold atomic gases, or indeed
any bosonic system. Furthermore, in the presence of the laser coupling, the
interactions between the two dressed atomic spin states are modified, driving a
quantum phase transition from a spatially spin-mixed state (lasers off) to a
phase-separated state (above a critical laser intensity). We develop a many-body 
theory that provides quantitative agreement with the observed location of the
transition. The engineered SO coupling--equally applicable for bosons and
fermions--sets the stage for the realization of topological insulators in
fermionic neutral atom systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09887 
PMID: 21368828 


733. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):80-2. doi: 10.1038/nature09786.

The unusual minimum of sunspot cycle 23 caused by meridional plasma flow
variations.

Nandy D(1), Muñoz-Jaramillo A, Martens PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Sciences, Indian Institute of Science Education and
Research, Kolkata, Mohanpur 741252, West Bengal, India. dnandi@iiserkol.ac.in

Direct observations over the past four centuries show that the number of sunspots
observed on the Sun's surface varies periodically, going through successive
maxima and minima. Following sunspot cycle 23, the Sun went into a prolonged
minimum characterized by a very weak polar magnetic field and an unusually large 
number of days without sunspots. Sunspots are strongly magnetized regions
generated by a dynamo mechanism that recreates the solar polar field mediated
through plasma flows. Here we report results from kinematic dynamo simulations
which demonstrate that a fast meridional flow in the first half of a cycle,
followed by a slower flow in the second half, reproduces both characteristics of 
the minimum of sunspot cycle 23. Our model predicts that, in general, very deep
minima are associated with weak polar fields. Sunspots govern the solar radiative
energy and radio flux, and, in conjunction with the polar field, modulate the
solar wind, the heliospheric open flux and, consequently, the cosmic ray flux at 
Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09786 
PMID: 21368827 


734. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):74-79. doi: 10.1038/nature09803.

HDACs link the DNA damage response, processing of double-strand breaks and
autophagy.

Robert T(#)(1), Vanoli F(#)(1), Chiolo I(#)(1)(2), Shubassi G(1), Bernstein
KA(3), Rothstein R(3), Botrugno OA(4), Parazzoli D(5), Oldani A(5), Minucci
S(4)(6), Foiani M(1)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione IFOM (Istituto FIRC di Oncologia Molecolare), IFOM-IEO Campus, via 
Adamello 16, Milan 20139, Italy.
(2)LBNL, Department of Genome Biology, Berkeley, California 94710-2722, USA.
(3)Department of Genetics and Development, Columbia University Medical Center,
New York, New York 10032-2704, USA.
(4)European Institute of Oncology, IFOM-IEO campus, Milan 20139, Italy.
(5)Cogentech, Milan 20139, Italy.
(6)DSBB-Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan 20139, Italy.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):48-9.

Protein acetylation is mediated by histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and
deacetylases (HDACs), which influence chromatin dynamics, protein turnover and
the DNA damage response. ATM and ATR mediate DNA damage checkpoints by sensing
double-strand breaks and single-strand-DNA-RFA nucleofilaments, respectively.
However, it is unclear how acetylation modulates the DNA damage response. Here we
show that HDAC inhibition/ablation specifically counteracts yeast Mec1
(orthologue of human ATR) activation, double-strand-break processing and
single-strand-DNA-RFA nucleofilament formation. Moreover, the recombination
protein Sae2 (human CtIP) is acetylated and degraded after HDAC inhibition. Two
HDACs, Hda1 and Rpd3, and one HAT, Gcn5, have key roles in these processes. We
also find that HDAC inhibition triggers Sae2 degradation by promoting autophagy
that affects the DNA damage sensitivity of hda1 and rpd3 mutants. Rapamycin,
which stimulates autophagy by inhibiting Tor, also causes Sae2 degradation. We
propose that Rpd3, Hda1 and Gcn5 control chromosome stability by coordinating the
ATR checkpoint and double-strand-break processing with autophagy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09803 
PMCID: PMC3935290
PMID: 21368826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):63-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09805.

Somatic coding mutations in human induced pluripotent stem cells.

Gore A(1), Li Z, Fung HL, Young JE, Agarwal S, Antosiewicz-Bourget J, Canto I,
Giorgetti A, Israel MA, Kiskinis E, Lee JH, Loh YH, Manos PD, Montserrat N,
Panopoulos AD, Ruiz S, Wilbert ML, Yu J, Kirkness EF, Izpisua Belmonte JC, Rossi 
DJ, Thomson JA, Eggan K, Daley GQ, Goldstein LS, Zhang K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California at San Diego, 9500
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Apr 8;8(4):347-8.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):46-7.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Apr;12(4):230.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Apr;11(4):232.

Defined transcription factors can induce epigenetic reprogramming of adult
mammalian cells into induced pluripotent stem cells. Although DNA factors are
integrated during some reprogramming methods, it is unknown whether the genome
remains unchanged at the single nucleotide level. Here we show that 22 human
induced pluripotent stem (hiPS) cell lines reprogrammed using five different
methods each contained an average of five protein-coding point mutations in the
regions sampled (an estimated six protein-coding point mutations per exome). The 
majority of these mutations were non-synonymous, nonsense or splice variants, and
were enriched in genes mutated or having causative effects in cancers. At least
half of these reprogramming-associated mutations pre-existed in fibroblast
progenitors at low frequencies, whereas the rest occurred during or after
reprogramming. Thus, hiPS cells acquire genetic modifications in addition to
epigenetic modifications. Extensive genetic screening should become a standard
procedure to ensure hiPS cell safety before clinical use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09805 
PMCID: PMC3074107
PMID: 21368825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):58-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09871.

Copy number variation and selection during reprogramming to pluripotency.

Hussein SM(1), Batada NN, Vuoristo S, Ching RW, Autio R, Närvä E, Ng S, Sourour
M, Hämäläinen R, Olsson C, Lundin K, Mikkola M, Trokovic R, Peitz M, Brüstle O,
Bazett-Jones DP, Alitalo K, Lahesmaa R, Nagy A, Otonkoski T.

Author information: 
(1)Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Apr 8;8(4):347-8.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):46-7.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Apr;12(4):230.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Apr;11(4):232.

The mechanisms underlying the low efficiency of reprogramming somatic cells into 
induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells are poorly understood. There is a clear need
to study whether the reprogramming process itself compromises genomic integrity
and, through this, the efficiency of iPS cell establishment. Using a
high-resolution single nucleotide polymorphism array, we compared copy number
variations (CNVs) of different passages of human iPS cells with their fibroblast 
cell origins and with human embryonic stem (ES) cells. Here we show that
significantly more CNVs are present in early-passage human iPS cells than
intermediate passage human iPS cells, fibroblasts or human ES cells. Most CNVs
are formed de novo and generate genetic mosaicism in early-passage human iPS
cells. Most of these novel CNVs rendered the affected cells at a selective
disadvantage. Remarkably, expansion of human iPS cells in culture selects rapidly
against mutated cells, driving the lines towards a genetic state resembling human
ES cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09871 
PMID: 21368824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):51-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09678.

Has the Earth's sixth mass extinction already arrived?

Barnosky AD(1), Matzke N, Tomiya S, Wogan GO, Swartz B, Quental TB, Marshall C,
McGuire JL, Lindsey EL, Maguire KC, Mersey B, Ferrer EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. barnosky@berkeley.edu

Palaeontologists characterize mass extinctions as times when the Earth loses more
than three-quarters of its species in a geologically short interval, as has
happened only five times in the past 540 million years or so. Biologists now
suggest that a sixth mass extinction may be under way, given the known species
losses over the past few centuries and millennia. Here we review how differences 
between fossil and modern data and the addition of recently available
palaeontological information influence our understanding of the current
extinction crisis. Our results confirm that current extinction rates are higher
than would be expected from the fossil record, highlighting the need for
effective conservation measures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09678 
PMID: 21368823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):68-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09798. Epub 2011 Feb 2.

Hotspots of aberrant epigenomic reprogramming in human induced pluripotent stem
cells.

Lister R(1), Pelizzola M, Kida YS, Hawkins RD, Nery JR, Hon G,
Antosiewicz-Bourget J, O'Malley R, Castanon R, Klugman S, Downes M, Yu R, Stewart
R, Ren B, Thomson JA, Evans RM, Ecker JR.

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Analysis Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):126.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Apr 8;8(4):347-8.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 3;471(7336):46-7.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Apr;12(4):230.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Apr;11(4):232.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) offer immense potential for regenerative
medicine and studies of disease and development. Somatic cell reprogramming
involves epigenomic reconfiguration, conferring iPSCs with characteristics
similar to embryonic stem (ES) cells. However, it remains unknown how complete
the reestablishment of ES-cell-like DNA methylation patterns is throughout the
genome. Here we report the first whole-genome profiles of DNA methylation at
single-base resolution in five human iPSC lines, along with methylomes of ES
cells, somatic cells, and differentiated iPSCs and ES cells. iPSCs show
significant reprogramming variability, including somatic memory and aberrant
reprogramming of DNA methylation. iPSCs share megabase-scale differentially
methylated regions proximal to centromeres and telomeres that display incomplete 
reprogramming of non-CG methylation, and differences in CG methylation and
histone modifications. Lastly, differentiation of iPSCs into trophoblast cells
revealed that errors in reprogramming CG methylation are transmitted at a high
frequency, providing an iPSC reprogramming signature that is maintained after
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09798 
PMCID: PMC3100360
PMID: 21289626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):558-62. doi: 10.1038/nature09743.

Crystal structure of the CusBA heavy-metal efflux complex of Escherichia coli.

Su CC(1), Long F, Zimmermann MT, Rajashankar KR, Jernigan RL, Yu EW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA.

Gram-negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, expel toxic chemicals through
tripartite efflux pumps that span both the inner and outer membrane. The three
parts are an inner membrane, substrate-binding transporter; a membrane fusion
protein; and an outer-membrane-anchored channel. The fusion protein connects the 
transporter to the channel within the periplasmic space. A crystallographic model
of this tripartite efflux complex has been unavailable because co-crystallization
of the various components of the system has proven to be extremely difficult. We 
previously described the crystal structures of both the inner membrane
transporter CusA and the membrane fusion protein CusB of the CusCBA efflux system
of E. coli. Here we report the co-crystal structure of the CusBA efflux complex, 
showing that the transporter (or pump) CusA, which is present as a trimer,
interacts with six CusB protomers and that the periplasmic domain of CusA is
involved in these interactions. The six CusB molecules seem to form a continuous 
channel. The affinity of the CusA and CusB interaction was found to be in the
micromolar range. Finally, we have predicted a three-dimensional structure for
the trimeric CusC outer membrane channel and developed a model of the tripartite 
efflux assemblage. This CusC(3)-CusB(6)-CusA(3) model shows a 750-kilodalton
efflux complex that spans the entire bacterial cell envelope and exports Cu I and
Ag I ions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09743 
PMCID: PMC3078058
PMID: 21350490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):554-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09758.

Co-directional replication-transcription conflicts lead to replication restart.

Merrikh H(1), Machón C, Grainger WH, Grossman AD, Soultanas P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, M.I.T., Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Head-on encounters between the replication and transcription machineries on the
lagging DNA strand can lead to replication fork arrest and genomic instability.
To avoid head-on encounters, most genes, especially essential and highly
transcribed genes, are encoded on the leading strand such that transcription and 
replication are co-directional. Virtually all bacteria have the highly expressed 
ribosomal RNA genes co-directional with replication. In bacteria, co-directional 
encounters seem inevitable because the rate of replication is about 10-20-fold
greater than the rate of transcription. However, these encounters are generally
thought to be benign. Biochemical analyses indicate that head-on encounters are
more deleterious than co-directional encounters and that in both situations,
replication resumes without the need for any auxiliary restart proteins, at least
in vitro. Here we show that in vivo, co-directional transcription can disrupt
replication, leading to the involvement of replication restart proteins. We found
that highly transcribed rRNA genes are hotspots for co-directional conflicts
between replication and transcription in rapidly growing Bacillus subtilis cells.
We observed a transcription-dependent increase in association of the replicative 
helicase and replication restart proteins where head-on and co-directional
conflicts occur. Our results indicate that there are co-directional conflicts
between replication and transcription in vivo. Furthermore, in contrast to the
findings in vitro, the replication restart machinery is involved in vivo in
resolving potentially deleterious encounters due to head-on and co-directional
conflicts. These conflicts probably occur in many organisms and at many
chromosomal locations and help to explain the presence of important auxiliary
proteins involved in replication restart and in helping to clear a path along the
DNA for the replisome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09758 
PMCID: PMC3059490
PMID: 21350489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):543-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09737.

Programming the magnitude and persistence of antibody responses with innate
immunity.

Kasturi SP(1), Skountzou I, Albrecht RA, Koutsonanos D, Hua T, Nakaya HI,
Ravindran R, Stewart S, Alam M, Kwissa M, Villinger F, Murthy N, Steel J, Jacob
J, Hogan RJ, García-Sastre A, Compans R, Pulendran B.

Author information: 
(1)Emory Vaccine Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30329, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Apr;10(4):258.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Apr;11(4):234-5.

Many successful vaccines induce persistent antibody responses that can last a
lifetime. The mechanisms by which they do so remain unclear, but emerging
evidence indicates that they activate dendritic cells via Toll-like receptors
(TLRs). For example, the yellow fever vaccine YF-17D, one of the most successful 
empiric vaccines ever developed, activates dendritic cells via multiple TLRs to
stimulate proinflammatory cytokines. Triggering specific combinations of TLRs in 
dendritic cells can induce synergistic production of cytokines, which results in 
enhanced T-cell responses, but its impact on antibody responses remain unknown.
Learning the critical parameters of innate immunity that program such antibody
responses remains a major challenge in vaccinology. Here we demonstrate that
immunization of mice with synthetic nanoparticles containing antigens plus
ligands that signal through TLR4 and TLR7 induces synergistic increases in
antigen-specific, neutralizing antibodies compared to immunization with
nanoparticles containing antigens plus a single TLR ligand. Consistent with this 
there was enhanced persistence of germinal centres and of plasma-cell responses, 
which persisted in the lymph nodes for >1.5 years. Surprisingly, there was no
enhancement of the early short-lived plasma-cell response relative to that
observed with single TLR ligands. Molecular profiling of activated B cells,
isolated 7 days after immunization, indicated that there was early programming
towards B-cell memory. Antibody responses were dependent on direct triggering of 
both TLRs on B cells and dendritic cells, as well as on T-cell help. Immunization
protected completely against lethal avian and swine influenza virus strains in
mice, and induced robust immunity against pandemic H1N1 influenza in rhesus
macaques.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09737 
PMCID: PMC3057367
PMID: 21350488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):540-2. doi: 10.1038/nature09768.

Prion propagation and toxicity in vivo occur in two distinct mechanistic phases.

Sandberg MK(1), Al-Doujaily H, Sharps B, Clarke AR, Collinge J.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Prion Unit and Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL Institute of
Neurology, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):470-1.

Mammalian prions cause fatal neurodegenerative conditions including
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans and scrapie and bovine spongiform
encephalopathy in animals. Prion infections are typically associated with
remarkably prolonged but highly consistent incubation periods followed by a rapid
clinical phase. The relationship between prion propagation, generation of
neurotoxic species and clinical onset has remained obscure. Prion incubation
periods in experimental animals are known to vary inversely with expression level
of cellular prion protein. Here we demonstrate that prion propagation in brain
proceeds via two distinct phases: a clinically silent exponential phase not
rate-limited by prion protein concentration which rapidly reaches a maximal prion
titre, followed by a distinct switch to a plateau phase. The latter determines
time to clinical onset in a manner inversely proportional to prion protein
concentration. These findings demonstrate an uncoupling of infectivity and
toxicity. We suggest that prions themselves are not neurotoxic but catalyse the
formation of such species from PrP(C). Production of neurotoxic species is
triggered when prion propagation saturates, leading to a switch from
autocatalytic production of infectivity (phase 1) to a toxic (phase 2) pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09768 
PMID: 21350487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):535-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09742.

Synaptic potentiation onto habenula neurons in the learned helplessness model of 
depression.

Li B(1), Piriz J, Mirrione M, Chung C, Proulx CD, Schulz D, Henn F, Malinow R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior, Department of Neuroscience,
University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
bli@cshl.edu

The cellular basis of depressive disorders is poorly understood. Recent studies
in monkeys indicate that neurons in the lateral habenula (LHb), a nucleus that
mediates communication between forebrain and midbrain structures, can increase
their activity when an animal fails to receive an expected positive reward or
receives a stimulus that predicts aversive conditions (that is, disappointment or
anticipation of a negative outcome). LHb neurons project to, and modulate,
dopamine-rich regions, such as the ventral tegmental area (VTA), that control
reward-seeking behaviour and participate in depressive disorders. Here we show
that in two learned helplessness models of depression, excitatory synapses onto
LHb neurons projecting to the VTA are potentiated. Synaptic potentiation
correlates with an animal's helplessness behaviour and is due to an enhanced
presynaptic release probability. Depleting transmitter release by repeated
electrical stimulation of LHb afferents, using a protocol that can be effective
for patients who are depressed, markedly suppresses synaptic drive onto
VTA-projecting LHb neurons in brain slices and can significantly reduce learned
helplessness behaviour in rats. Our results indicate that increased presynaptic
action onto LHb neurons contributes to the rodent learned helplessness model of
depression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09742 
PMCID: PMC3285101
PMID: 21350486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):526-30. doi: 10.1038/nature09704.

An armoured Cambrian lobopodian from China with arthropod-like appendages.

Liu J(1), Steiner M, Dunlop JA, Keupp H, Shu D, Ou Q, Han J, Zhang Z, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Early Life Institute, State Key Laboratory of Continental Dynamics, Department
of Geology, Northwest University, Xi'an 710069, China. liujianni@126.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):E2-3; discussion E3-4.
    Nature. 2011 Aug 11;476(7359):E1; discussion E3-4.

Cambrian fossil Lagerstätten preserving soft-bodied organisms have contributed
much towards our understanding of metazoan origins. Lobopodians are a
particularly interesting group that diversified and flourished in the Cambrian
seas. Resembling 'worms with legs', they have long attracted much attention in
that they may have given rise to both Onychophora (velvet worms) and Tardigrada
(water bears), as well as to arthropods in general. Here we describe Diania
cactiformis gen. et sp. nov. as an 'armoured' lobopodian from the Chengjiang
fossil Lagerstätte (Cambrian Stage 3), Yunnan, southwestern China. Although
sharing features with other typical lobopodians, it is remarkable for possessing 
robust and probably sclerotized appendages, with what appear to be articulated
elements. In terms of limb morphology it is therefore closer to the arthropod
condition, to our knowledge, than any lobopodian recorded until now. Phylogenetic
analysis recovers it in a derived position, close to Arthropoda; thus, it seems
to belong to a grade of organization close to the point of becoming a true
arthropod. Further, D. cactiformis could imply that arthropodization
(sclerotization of the limbs) preceded arthrodization (sclerotization of the
body). Comparing our fossils with other lobopodian appendage morphologies--see
Kerygmachela, Jianshanopodia and Megadictyon--reinforces the hypothesis that the 
group as a whole is paraphyletic, with different taxa expressing different grades
of arthropodization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09704 
PMID: 21350485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):522-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09828.

Seismic tremors and magma wagging during explosive volcanism.

Jellinek AM(1), Bercovici D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, The University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z4, Canada. mjellinek@eos.ubc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):471-2.

Volcanic tremor is a ubiquitous feature of explosive eruptions. This oscillation 
persists for minutes to weeks and is characterized by a remarkably narrow band of
frequencies from about 0.5 Hz to 7 Hz (refs 1-4). Before major eruptions, tremor 
can occur in concert with increased gas flux and related ground deformation.
Volcanic tremor is thus of particular value for eruption forecasting. Most models
for volcanic tremor rely on specific properties of the geometry, structure and
constitution of volcanic conduits as well as the gas content of the erupting
magma. Because neither the initial structure nor the evolution of the
magma-conduit system will be the same from one volcano to the next, it is
surprising that tremor characteristics are so consistent among different
volcanoes. Indeed, this universality of tremor properties remains a major enigma.
Here we employ the contemporary view that silicic magma rises in the conduit as a
columnar plug surrounded by a highly vesicular annulus of sheared bubbles. We
demonstrate that, for most geologically relevant conditions, the magma column
will oscillate or 'wag' against the restoring 'gas-spring' force of the annulus
at observed tremor frequencies. In contrast to previous models, the magma-wagging
oscillation is relatively insensitive to the conduit structure and geometry,
which explains the narrow band of tremor frequencies observed around the world.
Moreover, the model predicts that as an eruption proceeds there will be an upward
drift in both the maximum frequency and the total signal frequency bandwidth, the
nature of which depends on the explosivity of the eruption, as is often observed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09828 
PMID: 21350484 


746. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):518-21. doi: 10.1038/nature09839.

Extended megadroughts in the southwestern United States during Pleistocene
interglacials.

Fawcett PJ(1), Werne JP, Anderson RS, Heikoop JM, Brown ET, Berke MA, Smith SJ,
Goff F, Donohoo-Hurley L, Cisneros-Dozal LM, Schouten S, Sinninghe Damsté JS,
Huang Y, Toney J, Fessenden J, WoldeGabriel G, Atudorei V, Geissman JW, Allen CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth & Planetary Sciences, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131, USA. fawcett@unm.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 28;472(7344):504.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):473-4.

The potential for increased drought frequency and severity linked to
anthropogenic climate change in the semi-arid regions of the southwestern United 
States (US) is a serious concern. Multi-year droughts during the instrumental
period and decadal-length droughts of the past two millennia were shorter and
climatically different from the future permanent, 'dust-bowl-like' megadrought
conditions, lasting decades to a century, that are predicted as a consequence of 
warming. So far, it has been unclear whether or not such megadroughts occurred in
the southwestern US, and, if so, with what regularity and intensity. Here we show
that periods of aridity lasting centuries to millennia occurred in the
southwestern US during mid-Pleistocene interglacials. Using molecular
palaeotemperature proxies to reconstruct the mean annual temperature (MAT) in
mid-Pleistocene lacustrine sediment from the Valles Caldera, New Mexico, we found
that the driest conditions occurred during the warmest phases of interglacials,
when the MAT was comparable to or higher than the modern MAT. A collapse of
drought-tolerant C(4) plant communities during these warm, dry intervals
indicates a significant reduction in summer precipitation, possibly in response
to a poleward migration of the subtropical dry zone. Three MAT cycles ∼2 °C in
amplitude occurred within Marine Isotope Stage (MIS) 11 and seem to correspond to
the muted precessional cycles within this interglacial. In comparison with MIS
11, MIS 13 experienced higher precessional-cycle amplitudes, larger variations in
MAT (4-6 °C) and a longer period of extended warmth, suggesting that local
insolation variations were important to interglacial climatic variability in the 
southwestern US. Comparison of the early MIS 11 climate record with the Holocene 
record shows many similarities and implies that, in the absence of anthropogenic 
forcing, the region should be entering a cooler and wetter phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09839 
PMID: 21350483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):492-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09856.

Post-traumatic stress disorder is associated with PACAP and the PAC1 receptor.

Ressler KJ(1), Mercer KB, Bradley B, Jovanovic T, Mahan A, Kerley K, Norrholm SD,
Kilaru V, Smith AK, Myers AJ, Ramirez M, Engel A, Hammack SE, Toufexis D, Braas
KM, Binder EB, May V.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.
kressle@emory.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Sep 1;477(7362):120.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):468-9.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Apr;12(4):185.

Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is known to broadly
regulate the cellular stress response. In contrast, it is unclear if the
PACAP-PAC1 receptor pathway has a role in human psychological stress responses,
such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Here we find, in heavily
traumatized subjects, a sex-specific association of PACAP blood levels with fear 
physiology, PTSD diagnosis and symptoms in females. We examined 44 single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning the PACAP (encoded by ADCYAP1) and PAC1 
(encoded by ADCYAP1R1) genes, demonstrating a sex-specific association with PTSD.
A single SNP in a putative oestrogen response element within ADCYAP1R1,
rs2267735, predicts PTSD diagnosis and symptoms in females only. This SNP also
associates with fear discrimination and with ADCYAP1R1 messenger RNA expression
in human brain. Methylation of ADCYAP1R1 in peripheral blood is also associated
with PTSD. Complementing these human data, ADCYAP1R1 mRNA is induced with fear
conditioning or oestrogen replacement in rodent models. These data suggest that
perturbations in the PACAP-PAC1 pathway are involved in abnormal stress responses
underlying PTSD. These sex-specific effects may occur via oestrogen regulation of
ADCYAP1R1. PACAP levels and ADCYAP1R1 SNPs may serve as useful biomarkers to
further our mechanistic understanding of PTSD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09856 
PMCID: PMC3046811
PMID: 21350482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):486-91. doi: 10.1038/nature09801.

An open-system quantum simulator with trapped ions.

Barreiro JT(1), Müller M, Schindler P, Nigg D, Monz T, Chwalla M, Hennrich M,
Roos CF, Zoller P, Blatt R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstrasse 25,
6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

The control of quantum systems is of fundamental scientific interest and promises
powerful applications and technologies. Impressive progress has been achieved in 
isolating quantum systems from the environment and coherently controlling their
dynamics, as demonstrated by the creation and manipulation of entanglement in
various physical systems. However, for open quantum systems, engineering the
dynamics of many particles by a controlled coupling to an environment remains
largely unexplored. Here we realize an experimental toolbox for simulating an
open quantum system with up to five quantum bits (qubits). Using a quantum
computing architecture with trapped ions, we combine multi-qubit gates with
optical pumping to implement coherent operations and dissipative processes. We
illustrate our ability to engineer the open-system dynamics through the
dissipative preparation of entangled states, the simulation of coherent many-body
spin interactions, and the quantum non-demolition measurement of multi-qubit
observables. By adding controlled dissipation to coherent operations, this work
offers novel prospects for open-system quantum simulation and computation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09801 
PMID: 21350481 


749. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):479-85. doi: 10.1038/nature09670.

Climate change and evolutionary adaptation.

Hoffmann AA(1), Sgrò CM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Zoology and Genetics, Bio21 Institute, The University of
Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia. ary@unimelb.edu.au

Evolutionary adaptation can be rapid and potentially help species counter
stressful conditions or realize ecological opportunities arising from climate
change. The challenges are to understand when evolution will occur and to
identify potential evolutionary winners as well as losers, such as species
lacking adaptive capacity living near physiological limits. Evolutionary
processes also need to be incorporated into management programmes designed to
minimize biodiversity loss under rapid climate change. These challenges can be
met through realistic models of evolutionary change linked to experimental data
across a range of taxa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09670 
PMID: 21350480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):531-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09705. Epub 2011 Feb 16.

Consequences of climate change on the tree of life in Europe.

Thuiller W(1), Lavergne S, Roquet C, Boulangeat I, Lafourcade B, Araujo MB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine, UMR CNRS 5553, Université Joseph Fourier, BP
53, FR-38041 Grenoble Cedex 9, France. wilfried.thuiller@ujf-grenoble.fr

Many species are projected to become vulnerable to twenty-first-century climate
changes, with consequent effects on the tree of life. If losses were not randomly
distributed across the tree of life, climate change could lead to a
disproportionate loss of evolutionary history. Here we estimate the consequences 
of climate change on the phylogenetic diversities of plant, bird and mammal
assemblages across Europe. Using a consensus across ensembles of forecasts for
2020, 2050 and 2080 and high-resolution phylogenetic trees, we show that species 
vulnerability to climate change clusters weakly across phylogenies. Such
phylogenetic signal in species vulnerabilities does not lead to higher loss of
evolutionary history than expected with a model of random extinctions. This is
because vulnerable species have neither fewer nor closer relatives than the
remaining clades. Reductions in phylogenetic diversity will be greater in
southern Europe, and gains are expected in regions of high latitude or altitude. 
However, losses will not be offset by gains and the tree of life faces a trend
towards homogenization across the continent.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09705 
PMID: 21326204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):503-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09726. Epub 2011 Feb 16.

Intrinsic transition of embryonic stem-cell differentiation into neural
progenitors.

Kamiya D(1), Banno S, Sasai N, Ohgushi M, Inomata H, Watanabe K, Kawada M, Yakura
R, Kiyonari H, Nakao K, Jakt LM, Nishikawa S, Sasai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Organogenesis and Neurogenesis Group, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology, 
Kobe 650-0047, Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Apr;12(4):188.

The neural fate is generally considered to be the intrinsic direction of
embryonic stem (ES) cell differentiation. However, little is known about the
intracellular mechanism that leads undifferentiated cells to adopt the neural
fate in the absence of extrinsic inductive signals. Here we show that the
zinc-finger nuclear protein Zfp521 is essential and sufficient for driving the
intrinsic neural differentiation of mouse ES cells. In the absence of the neural 
differentiation inhibitor BMP4, strong Zfp521 expression is intrinsically induced
in differentiating ES cells. Forced expression of Zfp521 enables the neural
conversion of ES cells even in the presence of BMP4. Conversely, in
differentiation culture, Zfp521-depleted ES cells do not undergo neural
conversion but tend to halt at the epiblast state. Zfp521 directly activates
early neural genes by working with the co-activator p300. Thus, the transition of
ES cell differentiation from the epiblast state into neuroectodermal progenitors 
specifically depends on the cell-intrinsic expression and activator function of
Zfp521.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09726 
PMID: 21326203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):548-53. doi: 10.1038/nature09707. Epub 2011 Feb 16.

Tumour-infiltrating regulatory T cells stimulate mammary cancer metastasis
through RANKL-RANK signalling.

Tan W(1), Zhang W, Strasner A, Grivennikov S, Cheng JQ, Hoffman RM, Karin M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Regulation and Signal Transduction, Department of
Pharmacology, University of California San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Apr;11(4):236-7.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Apr;11(4):234.

Inflammatory mechanisms influence tumorigenesis and metastatic progression even
in cancers whose aetiology does not involve pre-existing inflammation or
infection, such as breast and prostate cancers. For instance, prostate cancer
metastasis is associated with the infiltration of lymphocytes into advanced
tumours and the upregulation of two tumour-necrosis-factor family members:
receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (RANK) ligand (RANKL) and lymphotoxin.
But the source of RANKL and its role in metastasis have not been established.
RANKL and its receptor RANK control the proliferation of mammary lobuloalveolar
cells during pregnancy through inhibitor of nuclear factor-κB (IκB) kinase-α
(IKK-α), a protein kinase that is needed for the self-renewal of mammary cancer
progenitors and for prostate cancer metastasis. We therefore examined whether
RANKL, RANK and IKK-α are also involved in mammary/breast cancer metastasis.
Indeed, RANK signalling in mammary carcinoma cells that overexpress the
proto-oncogene Erbb2 (also known as Neu), which is frequently amplified in
metastatic human breast cancers, was important for pulmonary metastasis.
Metastatic spread of Erbb2-transformed carcinoma cells also required
CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells, whose major pro-metastatic function was RANKL production. 
Most RANKL-producing T cells expressed forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), a transcription
factor produced by regulatory T cells, and were located next to smooth muscle
actin (SMA)(+) stromal cells in mouse and human breast cancers. The dependence of
pulmonary metastasis on T cells was replaceable by exogenous RANKL, which also
stimulated pulmonary metastasis of RANK(+) human breast cancer cells. These
results are consistent with the adverse impact of tumour-infiltrating CD4(+) or
FOXP3(+) T cells on human breast cancer prognosis and suggest that the targeting 
of RANKL-RANK can be used in conjunction with the therapeutic elimination of
primary breast tumours to prevent recurrent metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09707 
PMCID: PMC3166217
PMID: 21326202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):510-2. doi: 10.1038/nature09771. Epub 2011 Feb 16.

Submillimetre galaxies reside in dark matter haloes with masses greater than
3 × 10(11) solar masses.

Amblard A(1), Cooray A, Serra P, Altieri B, Arumugam V, Aussel H, Blain A, Bock
J, Boselli A, Buat V, Castro-Rodríguez N, Cava A, Chanial P, Chapin E, Clements
DL, Conley A, Conversi L, Dowell CD, Dwek E, Eales S, Elbaz D, Farrah D,
Franceschini A, Gear W, Glenn J, Griffin M, Halpern M, Hatziminaoglou E, Ibar E, 
Isaak K, Ivison RJ, Khostovan AA, Lagache G, Levenson L, Lu N, Madden S, Maffei
B, Mainetti G, Marchetti L, Marsden G, Mitchell-Wynne K, Nguyen HT, O'Halloran B,
Oliver SJ, Omont A, Page MJ, Panuzzo P, Papageorgiou A, Pearson CP, Pérez-Fournon
I, Pohlen M, Rangwala N, Roseboom IG, Rowan-Robinson M, Portal MS, Schulz B,
Scott D, Seymour N, Shupe DL, Smith AJ, Stevens JA, Symeonidis M, Trichas M,
Tugwell K, Vaccari M, Valiante E, Valtchanov I, Vieira JD, Vigroux L, Wang L,
Ward R, Wright G, Xu CK, Zemcov M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of California, Irvine,
California 92697, USA.

The extragalactic background light at far-infrared wavelengths comes from
optically faint, dusty, star-forming galaxies in the Universe with star formation
rates of a few hundred solar masses per year. These faint, submillimetre galaxies
are challenging to study individually because of the relatively poor spatial
resolution of far-infrared telescopes. Instead, their average properties can be
studied using statistics such as the angular power spectrum of the background
intensity variations. A previous attempt at measuring this power spectrum
resulted in the suggestion that the clustering amplitude is below the level
computed with a simple ansatz based on a halo model. Here we report excess
clustering over the linear prediction at arcminute angular scales in the power
spectrum of brightness fluctuations at 250, 350 and 500 μm. From this excess, we 
find that submillimetre galaxies are located in dark matter haloes with a minimum
mass, M(min), such that log(10)[M(min)/M(⊙)] = 11.5(+0.7)(-0.2) at 350 μm, where 
M(⊙) is the solar mass. This minimum dark matter halo mass corresponds to the
most efficient mass scale for star formation in the Universe, and is lower than
that predicted by semi-analytical models for galaxy formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09771 
PMID: 21326201 


754. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):513-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09752. Epub 2011 Feb 9.

Geometric frustration in compositionally modulated ferroelectrics.

Choudhury N(1), Walizer L, Lisenkov S, Bellaiche L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Arkansas 72701,
USA. narayani@uark.edu

Geometric frustration is a broad phenomenon that results from an intrinsic
incompatibility between some fundamental interactions and the underlying lattice 
geometry. Geometric frustration gives rise to new fundamental phenomena and is
known to yield intriguing effects such as the formation of exotic states like
spin ice, spin liquids and spin glasses. It has also led to interesting findings 
of fractional charge quantization and magnetic monopoles. Mechanisms related to
geometric frustration have been proposed to understand the origins of relaxor and
multiferroic behaviour, colossal magnetocapacitive coupling, and unusual and
novel mechanisms of high-transition-temperature superconductivity. Although
geometric frustration has been particularly well studied in magnetic systems in
the past 20 years or so, its manifestation in the important class formed by
ferroelectric materials (which are compounds with electric rather than magnetic
dipoles) is basically unknown. Here we show, using a technique based on first
principles, that compositionally graded ferroelectrics possess the characteristic
'fingerprints' associated with geometric frustration. These systems have a highly
degenerate energy surface and display critical phenomena. They further reveal
exotic orderings with novel stripe phases involving complex spatial organization.
These stripes display spiral states, topological defects and curvature.
Compositionally graded ferroelectrics can thus be considered the 'missing link'
that brings ferroelectrics into the broad category of materials able to exhibit
geometric frustration. Our ab initio calculations allow deep microscopic insight 
into this novel geometrically frustrated system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09752 
PMID: 21307851 


755. Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):498-502. doi: 10.1038/nature09775. Epub 2011 Jan
26.

Transient Hoogsteen base pairs in canonical duplex DNA.

Nikolova EN(1), Kim E, Wise AA, O'Brien PJ, Andricioaei I, Al-Hashimi HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biophysics, University of Michigan, 930 North
University Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 24;470(7335):472-3.

Sequence-directed variations in the canonical DNA double helix structure that
retain Watson-Crick base-pairing have important roles in DNA recognition,
topology and nucleosome positioning. By using nuclear magnetic resonance
relaxation dispersion spectroscopy in concert with steered molecular dynamics
simulations, we have observed transient sequence-specific excursions away from
Watson-Crick base-pairing at CA and TA steps inside canonical duplex DNA towards 
low-populated and short-lived A•T and G•C Hoogsteen base pairs. The observation
of Hoogsteen base pairs in DNA duplexes specifically bound to transcription
factors and in damaged DNA sites implies that the DNA double helix intrinsically 
codes for excited state Hoogsteen base pairs as a means of expanding its
structural complexity beyond that which can be achieved based on Watson-Crick
base-pairing. The methods presented here provide a new route for characterizing
transient low-populated nucleic acid structures, which we predict will be
abundant in the genome and constitute a second transient layer of the genetic
code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09775 
PMCID: PMC3074620
PMID: 21270796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):414-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09703.

Coronin 2A mediates actin-dependent de-repression of inflammatory response genes.

Huang W(1), Ghisletti S, Saijo K, Gandhi M, Aouadi M, Tesz GJ, Zhang DX, Yao J,
Czech MP, Goode BL, Rosenfeld MG, Glass CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0651, USA.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) function as initiators of inflammation through their
ability to sense pathogen-associated molecular patterns and products of tissue
damage. Transcriptional activation of many TLR-responsive genes requires an
initial de-repression step in which nuclear receptor co-repressor (NCoR)
complexes are actively removed from the promoters of target genes to relieve
basal repression. Ligand-dependent SUMOylation of liver X receptors (LXRs) has
been found to suppress TLR4-induced transcription potently by preventing the NCoR
clearance step, but the underlying mechanisms remain enigmatic. Here we provide
evidence that coronin 2A (CORO2A), a component of the NCoR complex of previously 
unknown function, mediates TLR-induced NCoR turnover by a mechanism involving
interaction with oligomeric nuclear actin. SUMOylated LXRs block NCoR turnover by
binding to a conserved SUMO2/SUMO3-interaction motif in CORO2A and preventing
actin recruitment. Intriguingly, the LXR transrepression pathway can itself be
inactivated by inflammatory signals that induce calcium/calmodulin-dependent
protein kinase IIγ (CaMKIIγ)-dependent phosphorylation of LXRs, leading to their 
deSUMOylation by the SUMO protease SENP3 and release from CORO2A. These findings 
uncover a CORO2A-actin-dependent mechanism for the de-repression of inflammatory 
response genes that can be differentially regulated by phosphorylation and by
nuclear receptor signalling pathways that control immunity and homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09703 
PMCID: PMC3464905
PMID: 21331046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):409-13. doi: 10.1038/nature09673.

CKIα ablation highlights a critical role for p53 in invasiveness control.

Elyada E(1), Pribluda A, Goldstein RE, Morgenstern Y, Brachya G, Cojocaru G,
Snir-Alkalay I, Burstain I, Haffner-Krausz R, Jung S, Wiener Z, Alitalo K, Oren
M, Pikarsky E, Ben-Neriah Y.

Author information: 
(1)The Lautenberg Center for Immunology, IMRIC, Hebrew University-Hadassah
Medical School, Jerusalem 91120, Israel.

The mature gut renews continuously and rapidly throughout adult life, often in a 
damage-inflicting micro-environment. The major driving force for self-renewal of 
the intestinal epithelium is the Wnt-mediated signalling pathway, and Wnt
signalling is frequently hyperactivated in colorectal cancer. Here we show that
casein kinase Iα (CKIα), a component of the β-catenin-destruction complex, is a
critical regulator of the Wnt signalling pathway. Inducing the ablation of
Csnk1a1 (the gene encoding CKIα) in the gut triggers massive Wnt activation,
surprisingly without causing tumorigenesis. CKIα-deficient epithelium shows many 
of the features of human colorectal tumours in addition to Wnt activation, in
particular the induction of the DNA damage response and cellular senescence, both
of which are thought to provide a barrier against malignant transformation. The
epithelial DNA damage response in mice is accompanied by substantial activation
of p53, suggesting that the p53 pathway may counteract the pro-tumorigenic
effects of Wnt hyperactivation. Notably, the transition from benign adenomas to
invasive colorectal cancer in humans is typically linked to p53 inactivation,
underscoring the importance of p53 as a safeguard against malignant progression; 
however, the mechanism of p53-mediated tumour suppression is unknown. We show
that the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis in CKIα-deficient gut requires
p53-mediated growth control, because the combined ablation of Csnk1a1 and either 
p53 or its target gene p21 (also known as Waf1, Cip1, Sdi1 and Cdkn1a) triggered 
high-grade dysplasia with extensive proliferation. Unexpectedly, these ablations 
also induced non-proliferating cells to invade the villous lamina propria
rapidly, producing invasive carcinomas throughout the small bowel. Furthermore,
in p53-deficient gut, loss of heterozygosity of the gene encoding CKIα caused a
highly invasive carcinoma, indicating that CKIα functions as a tumour suppressor 
when p53 is inactivated. We identified a set of genes (the p53-suppressed
invasiveness signature, PSIS) that is activated by the loss of both p53 and CKIα 
and which probably accounts for the brisk induction of invasiveness. PSIS
transcription and tumour invasion were suppressed by p21, independently of cell
cycle control. Restraining tissue invasion through suppressing PSIS expression is
thus a novel tumour-suppressor function of wild-type p53.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09673 
PMID: 21331045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):404-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09706.

Lifespan extension induced by AMPK and calcineurin is mediated by CRTC-1 and
CREB.

Mair W(1), Morantte I, Rodrigues AP, Manning G, Montminy M, Shaw RJ, Dillin A.

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2011 Apr 6;13(4):358-60.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Apr;12(4):206.

Activating AMPK or inactivating calcineurin slows ageing in Caenorhabditis
elegans and both have been implicated as therapeutic targets for age-related
pathology in mammals. However, the direct targets that mediate their effects on
longevity remain unclear. In mammals, CREB-regulated transcriptional coactivators
(CRTCs) are a family of cofactors involved in diverse physiological processes
including energy homeostasis, cancer and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Here we
show that both AMPK and calcineurin modulate longevity exclusively through
post-translational modification of CRTC-1, the sole C. elegans CRTC. We
demonstrate that CRTC-1 is a direct AMPK target, and interacts with the CREB
homologue-1 (CRH-1) transcription factor in vivo. The pro-longevity effects of
activating AMPK or deactivating calcineurin decrease CRTC-1 and CRH-1 activity
and induce transcriptional responses similar to those of CRH-1 null worms.
Downregulation of crtc-1 increases lifespan in a crh-1-dependent manner and
directly reducing crh-1 expression increases longevity, substantiating a role for
CRTCs and CREB in ageing. Together, these findings indicate a novel role for
CRTCs and CREB in determining lifespan downstream of AMPK and calcineurin, and
illustrate the molecular mechanisms by which an evolutionarily conserved pathway 
responds to low energy to increase longevity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09706 
PMCID: PMC3098900
PMID: 21331044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):399-403. doi: 10.1038/nature09728.

The novel gene twenty-four defines a critical translational step in the
Drosophila clock.

Lim C(1), Lee J, Choi C, Kilman VL, Kim J, Park SM, Jang SK, Allada R, Choe J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Physiology, Northwestern University, Evanston, 
Illinois 60208, USA.

Daily oscillations of gene expression underlie circadian behaviours in
multicellular organisms. While attention has been focused on transcriptional and 
post-translational mechanisms, other post-transcriptional modes have been less
clearly delineated. Here we report mutants of a novel Drosophila gene twenty-four
(tyf) that show weak behavioural rhythms. Weak rhythms are accompanied by marked 
reductions in the levels of the clock protein Period (PER) as well as more modest
effects on Timeless (TIM). Nonetheless, PER induction in pacemaker neurons can
rescue tyf mutant rhythms. TYF associates with a 5'-cap-binding complex,
poly(A)-binding protein (PABP), as well as per and tim transcripts. Furthermore, 
TYF activates reporter expression when tethered to reporter messenger RNA even in
vitro. Taken together, these data indicate that TYF potently activates PER
translation in pacemaker neurons to sustain robust rhythms, revealing a new and
important role for translational control in the Drosophila circadian clock.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09728 
PMCID: PMC3073513
PMID: 21331043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):394-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09729.

Tbx6-dependent Sox2 regulation determines neural or mesodermal fate in axial stem
cells.

Takemoto T(1), Uchikawa M, Yoshida M, Bell DM, Lovell-Badge R, Papaioannou VE,
Kondoh H.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, 1-3 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

The classical view of neural plate development held that it arises from the
ectoderm, after its separation from the mesodermal and endodermal lineages.
However, recent cell-lineage-tracing experiments indicate that the caudal neural 
plate and paraxial mesoderm are generated from common bipotential axial stem
cells originating from the caudal lateral epiblast. Tbx6 null mutant mouse
embryos which produce ectopic neural tubes at the expense of paraxial mesoderm
must provide a clue to the regulatory mechanism underlying this neural versus
mesodermal fate choice. Here we demonstrate that Tbx6-dependent regulation of
Sox2 determines the fate of axial stem cells. In wild-type embryos, enhancer N1
of the neural primordial gene Sox2 is activated in the caudal lateral epiblast,
and the cells staying in the superficial layer sustain N1 activity and activate
Sox2 expression in the neural plate. In contrast, the cells destined to become
mesoderm activate Tbx6 and turn off enhancer N1 before migrating into the
paraxial mesoderm compartment. In Tbx6 mutant embryos, however, enhancer N1
activity persists in the paraxial mesoderm compartment, eliciting ectopic Sox2
activation and transforming the paraxial mesoderm into neural tubes. An
enhancer-N1-specific deletion mutation introduced into Tbx6 mutant embryos
prevented this Sox2 activation in the mesodermal compartment and subsequent
development of ectopic neural tubes, indicating that Tbx6 regulates Sox2 via
enhancer N1. Tbx6-dependent repression of Wnt3a in the paraxial mesodermal
compartment is implicated in this regulatory process. Paraxial mesoderm-specific 
misexpression of a Sox2 transgene in wild-type embryos resulted in ectopic neural
tube development. Thus, Tbx6 represses Sox2 by inactivating enhancer N1 to
inhibit neural development, and this is an essential step for the specification
of paraxial mesoderm from the axial stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09729 
PMCID: PMC3042233
PMID: 21331042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):390-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09810.

An early Ediacaran assemblage of macroscopic and morphologically differentiated
eukaryotes.

Yuan X(1), Chen Z, Xiao S, Zhou C, Hua H.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology and Stratigraphy, Nanjing Institute of
Geology and Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China.
xlyuan@nigpas.ac.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):339-40.

The deep-water Avalon biota (about 579 to 565 million years old) is often
regarded as the earliest-known fossil assemblage with macroscopic and
morphologically complex life forms. It has been proposed that the rise of the
Avalon biota was triggered by the oxygenation of mid-Ediacaran deep oceans. Here 
we report a diverse assemblage of morphologically differentiated benthic
macrofossils that were preserved largely in situ as carbonaceous compressions in 
black shales of the Ediacaran Lantian Formation (southern Anhui Province, South
China). The Lantian biota, probably older than and taxonomically distinct from
the Avalon biota, suggests that morphological diversification of macroscopic
eukaryotes may have occurred in the early Ediacaran Period, perhaps shortly after
the Marinoan glaciation, and that the redox history of Ediacaran oceans was more 
complex than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09810 
PMID: 21331041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):382-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09762.

Anthropogenic greenhouse gas contribution to flood risk in England and Wales in
autumn 2000.

Pall P(1), Aina T, Stone DA, Stott PA, Nozawa T, Hilberts AG, Lohmann D, Allen
MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PU, UK.
pardeep.pall@env.ethz.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):316.
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):344-5.

Interest in attributing the risk of damaging weather-related events to
anthropogenic climate change is increasing. Yet climate models used to study the 
attribution problem typically do not resolve the weather systems associated with 
damaging events such as the UK floods of October and November 2000. Occurring
during the wettest autumn in England and Wales since records began in 1766, these
floods damaged nearly 10,000 properties across that region, disrupted services
severely, and caused insured losses estimated at £1.3 billion (refs 5, 6).
Although the flooding was deemed a 'wake-up call' to the impacts of climate
change at the time, such claims are typically supported only by general
thermodynamic arguments that suggest increased extreme precipitation under global
warming, but fail to account fully for the complex hydrometeorology associated
with flooding. Here we present a multi-step, physically based 'probabilistic
event attribution' framework showing that it is very likely that global
anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions substantially increased the risk of flood 
occurrence in England and Wales in autumn 2000. Using publicly volunteered
distributed computing, we generate several thousand seasonal-forecast-resolution 
climate model simulations of autumn 2000 weather, both under realistic
conditions, and under conditions as they might have been had these greenhouse gas
emissions and the resulting large-scale warming never occurred. Results are fed
into a precipitation-runoff model that is used to simulate severe daily river
runoff events in England and Wales (proxy indicators of flood events). The
precise magnitude of the anthropogenic contribution remains uncertain, but in
nine out of ten cases our model results indicate that twentieth-century
anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions increased the risk of floods occurring in 
England and Wales in autumn 2000 by more than 20%, and in two out of three cases 
by more than 90%.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09762 
PMID: 21331040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):378-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09763.

Human contribution to more-intense precipitation extremes.

Min SK(1), Zhang X, Zwiers FW, Hegerl GC.

Author information: 
(1)Climate Research Division, Environment Canada, Toronto, Ontario M3H5T4,
Canada. seung-ki.min@ec.gc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):316.
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):344-5.

Extremes of weather and climate can have devastating effects on human society and
the environment. Understanding past changes in the characteristics of such
events, including recent increases in the intensity of heavy precipitation events
over a large part of the Northern Hemisphere land area, is critical for reliable 
projections of future changes. Given that atmospheric water-holding capacity is
expected to increase roughly exponentially with temperature--and that atmospheric
water content is increasing in accord with this theoretical expectation--it has
been suggested that human-influenced global warming may be partly responsible for
increases in heavy precipitation. Because of the limited availability of daily
observations, however, most previous studies have examined only the potential
detectability of changes in extreme precipitation through model-model
comparisons. Here we show that human-induced increases in greenhouse gases have
contributed to the observed intensification of heavy precipitation events found
over approximately two-thirds of data-covered parts of Northern Hemisphere land
areas. These results are based on a comparison of observed and multi-model
simulated changes in extreme precipitation over the latter half of the twentieth 
century analysed with an optimal fingerprinting technique. Changes in extreme
precipitation projected by models, and thus the impacts of future changes in
extreme precipitation, may be underestimated because models seem to underestimate
the observed increase in heavy precipitation with warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09763 
PMID: 21331039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):369-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09776.

A terahertz metamaterial with unnaturally high refractive index.

Choi M(1), Lee SH, Kim Y, Kang SB, Shin J, Kwak MH, Kang KY, Lee YH, Park N, Min 
B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, Daejeon 305-751, South Korea.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):343-4.

Controlling the electromagnetic properties of materials, going beyond the limit
that is attainable with naturally existing substances, has become a reality with 
the advent of metamaterials. The range of various structured artificial 'atoms'
has promised a vast variety of otherwise unexpected physical phenomena, among
which the experimental realization of a negative refractive index has been one of
the main foci thus far. Expanding the refractive index into a high positive
regime will complete the spectrum of achievable refractive index and provide more
design flexibility for transformation optics. Naturally existing transparent
materials possess small positive indices of refraction, except for a few
semiconductors and insulators, such as lead sulphide or strontium titanate, that 
exhibit a rather high peak refractive index at mid- and far-infrared frequencies.
Previous approaches using metamaterials were not successful in realizing
broadband high refractive indices. A broadband high-refractive-index metamaterial
structure was theoretically investigated only recently, but the proposed
structure does not lend itself to easy implementation. Here we demonstrate that a
broadband, extremely high index of refraction can be realized from large-area,
free-standing, flexible terahertz metamaterials composed of strongly coupled unit
cells. By drastically increasing the effective permittivity through strong
capacitive coupling and decreasing the diamagnetic response with a thin metallic 
structure in the unit cell, a peak refractive index of 38.6 along with a
low-frequency quasi-static value of over 20 were experimentally realized for a
single-layer terahertz metamaterial, while maintaining low losses. As a natural
extension of these single-layer metamaterials, we fabricated
quasi-three-dimensional high-refractive-index metamaterials, and obtained a
maximum bulk refractive index of 33.2 along with a value of around 8 at the
quasi-static limit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09776 
PMID: 21331038 


765. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):366-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09761.

Broad-line active galactic nuclei rotate faster than narrow-line ones.

Kollatschny W(1), Zetzl M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Astrophysik, Universität Göttingen, Friedrich-Hund-Platz 1, 37077
Göttingen, Germany. wkollat@astro.physik.uni-goettingen.de

The super-massive black holes of 10(6)M(⊙) to 10(9)M(⊙) that reside in the nuclei
of active galaxies (AGN) are surrounded by a region emitting broad lines,
probably associated with an accretion disk. The diameters of the broad-line
regions range from a few light-days to more than a hundred light-days, and cannot
be resolved spatially. The relative significance of inflow, outflow, rotational
or turbulent motions in the broad-line regions as well as their structure
(spherical, thin or thick accretion disk) are unknown despite intensive studies
over more than thirty years. Here we report a fundamental relation between the
observed emission linewidth full-width at half-maximum (FWHM) and the emission
line shape FWHM/σ(line) in AGN spectra. From this relation we infer that the
predominant motion in the broad-line regions is Keplerian rotation in combination
with turbulence. The geometry of the inner region varies systematically with the 
rotation velocity: it is flattest for the fast-rotating broad-line objects,
whereas slow-rotating narrow-line AGN have a more spherical structure.
Superimposed is the trend that the line-emitting region becomes geometrically
thicker towards the centre within individual galaxies. Knowing the rotational
velocities, we can derive the central black-hole masses more accurately; they are
two to ten times smaller than has been estimated previously.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09761 
PMID: 21331037 


766. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):353-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09793.

Asymmetric cell divisions promote Notch-dependent epidermal differentiation.

Williams SE(1), Beronja S, Pasolli HA, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Laboratory of Mammalian Cell Biology and
Development, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Apr;12(4):226.

Stem and progenitor cells use asymmetric cell divisions to balance proliferation 
and differentiation. Evidence from invertebrates shows that this process is
regulated by proteins asymmetrically distributed at the cell cortex during
mitosis: Par3-Par6-aPKC, which confer polarity, and
Gα(i)-LGN/AGS3-NuMA-dynein/dynactin, which govern spindle positioning. Here we
focus on developing mouse skin, where progenitor cells execute a switch from
symmetric to predominantly asymmetric divisions concomitant with stratification. 
Using in vivo skin-specific lentiviral RNA interference, we investigate spindle
orientation regulation and provide direct evidence that LGN (also called Gpsm2), 
NuMA and dynactin (Dctn1) are involved. In compromising asymmetric cell
divisions, we uncover profound defects in stratification, differentiation and
barrier formation, and implicate Notch signalling as an important effector. Our
study demonstrates the efficacy of applying RNA interference in vivo to mammalian
systems, and the ease of uncovering complex genetic interactions, here to gain
insights into how changes in spindle orientation are coupled to establishing
proper tissue architecture during skin development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09793 
PMCID: PMC3077085
PMID: 21331036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):347-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09709.

The evolutionary context of the first hominins.

Wood B(1), Harrison T.

Author information: 
(1)CASHP, The George Washington University, 2110 G Street, NW Washington,
District of Columbia 20052, USA. bernardawood@gmail.com

The relationships among the living apes and modern humans have effectively been
resolved, but it is much more difficult to locate fossil apes on the tree of life
because shared skeletal morphology does not always mean shared recent
evolutionary history. Sorting fossil taxa into those that belong on the branch of
the tree of life that leads to modern humans from those that belong on other
closely related branches is a considerable challenge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09709 
PMID: 21331035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):359-65. doi: 10.1038/nature09787. Epub 2011 Feb 9.

Telomere dysfunction induces metabolic and mitochondrial compromise.

Sahin E(1), Colla S, Liesa M, Moslehi J, Müller FL, Guo M, Cooper M, Kotton D,
Fabian AJ, Walkey C, Maser RS, Tonon G, Foerster F, Xiong R, Wang YA, Shukla SA, 
Jaskelioff M, Martin ES, Heffernan TP, Protopopov A, Ivanova E, Mahoney JE,
Kost-Alimova M, Perry SR, Bronson R, Liao R, Mulligan R, Shirihai OS, Chin L,
DePinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 14;475(7355):254.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):342-3.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Apr;12(4):204.
    Circ Res. 2011 Apr 15;108(8):903-4.

Telomere dysfunction activates p53-mediated cellular growth arrest, senescence
and apoptosis to drive progressive atrophy and functional decline in
high-turnover tissues. The broader adverse impact of telomere dysfunction across 
many tissues including more quiescent systems prompted transcriptomic network
analyses to identify common mechanisms operative in haematopoietic stem cells,
heart and liver. These unbiased studies revealed profound repression of
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, coactivator 1 alpha and beta
(PGC-1α and PGC-1β, also known as Ppargc1a and Ppargc1b, respectively) and the
downstream network in mice null for either telomerase reverse transcriptase
(Tert) or telomerase RNA component (Terc) genes. Consistent with PGCs as master
regulators of mitochondrial physiology and metabolism, telomere dysfunction is
associated with impaired mitochondrial biogenesis and function, decreased
gluconeogenesis, cardiomyopathy, and increased reactive oxygen species. In the
setting of telomere dysfunction, enforced Tert or PGC-1α expression or germline
deletion of p53 (also known as Trp53) substantially restores PGC network
expression, mitochondrial respiration, cardiac function and gluconeogenesis. We
demonstrate that telomere dysfunction activates p53 which in turn binds and
represses PGC-1α and PGC-1β promoters, thereby forging a direct link between
telomere and mitochondrial biology. We propose that this telomere-p53-PGC axis
contributes to organ and metabolic failure and to diminishing organismal fitness 
in the setting of telomere dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09787 
PMCID: PMC3741661
PMID: 21307849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):374-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09741. Epub 2011 Feb 2.

Three-dimensional atomic imaging of crystalline nanoparticles.

Van Aert S(1), Batenburg KJ, Rossell MD, Erni R, Van Tendeloo G.

Author information: 
(1)Electron Microscopy for Materials Research, University of Antwerp,
Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2020 Antwerp, Belgium. sandra.vanaert@ua.ac.be

Determining the three-dimensional (3D) arrangement of atoms in crystalline
nanoparticles is important for nanometre-scale device engineering and also for
applications involving nanoparticles, such as optoelectronics or catalysis. A
nanoparticle's physical and chemical properties are controlled by its exact 3D
morphology, structure and composition. Electron tomography enables the recovery
of the shape of a nanoparticle from a series of projection images. Although
atomic-resolution electron microscopy has been feasible for nearly four decades, 
neither electron tomography nor any other experimental technique has yet
demonstrated atomic resolution in three dimensions. Here we report the 3D
reconstruction of a complex crystalline nanoparticle at atomic resolution. To
achieve this, we combined aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron
microscopy, statistical parameter estimation theory and discrete tomography.
Unlike conventional electron tomography, only two images of the target--a silver 
nanoparticle embedded in an aluminium matrix--are sufficient for the
reconstruction when combined with available knowledge about the particle's
crystallographic structure. Additional projections confirm the reliability of the
result. The results we present help close the gap between the atomic resolution
achievable in two-dimensional electron micrographs and the coarser resolution
that has hitherto been obtained by conventional electron tomography.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09741 
PMID: 21289625 


770. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):419-23. doi: 10.1038/nature09672. Epub 2011 Jan 30.

Embryonic lethal phenotype reveals a function of TDG in maintaining epigenetic
stability.

Cortázar D(1), Kunz C, Selfridge J, Lettieri T, Saito Y, MacDougall E, Wirz A,
Schuermann D, Jacobs AL, Siegrist F, Steinacher R, Jiricny J, Bird A, Schär P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Institute of Biochemistry and Genetics, University 
of Basel, 4048 Basel, Switzerland.

Thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) is a member of the uracil DNA glycosylase (UDG)
superfamily of DNA repair enzymes. Owing to its ability to excise thymine when
mispaired with guanine, it was proposed to act against the mutability of
5-methylcytosine (5-mC) deamination in mammalian DNA. However, TDG was also found
to interact with transcription factors, histone acetyltransferases and de novo
DNA methyltransferases, and it has been associated with DNA demethylation in gene
promoters following activation of transcription, altogether implicating an
engagement in gene regulation rather than DNA repair. Here we use a mouse genetic
approach to determine the biological function of this multifaceted DNA repair
enzyme. We find that, unlike other DNA glycosylases, TDG is essential for
embryonic development, and that this phenotype is associated with epigenetic
aberrations affecting the expression of developmental genes. Fibroblasts derived 
from Tdg null embryos (mouse embryonic fibroblasts, MEFs) show impaired gene
regulation, coincident with imbalanced histone modification and CpG methylation
at promoters of affected genes. TDG associates with the promoters of such genes
both in fibroblasts and in embryonic stem cells (ESCs), but epigenetic
aberrations only appear upon cell lineage commitment. We show that TDG
contributes to the maintenance of active and bivalent chromatin throughout cell
differentiation, facilitating a proper assembly of chromatin-modifying complexes 
and initiating base excision repair to counter aberrant de novo methylation. We
thus conclude that TDG-dependent DNA repair has evolved to provide epigenetic
stability in lineage committed cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09672 
PMID: 21278727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Nature. 2011 Feb 17;470(7334):386-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09689. Epub 2011 Jan 5.

Leadership, social capital and incentives promote successful fisheries.

Gutiérrez NL(1), Hilborn R, Defeo O.

Author information: 
(1)School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, Box 355020, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington 98195-5020, USA. nicolasg@uw.edu

One billion people depend on seafood as their primary source of protein and 25%
of the world's total animal protein comes from fisheries. Yet a third of fish
stocks worldwide are overexploited or depleted. Using individual case studies,
many have argued that community-based co-management should prevent the tragedy of
the commons because cooperative management by fishers, managers and scientists
often results in sustainable fisheries. However, general and multidisciplinary
evaluations of co-management regimes and the conditions for social, economic and 
ecological success within such regimes are lacking. Here we examine 130
co-managed fisheries in a wide range of countries with different degrees of
development, ecosystems, fishing sectors and type of resources. We identified
strong leadership as the most important attribute contributing to success,
followed by individual or community quotas, social cohesion and protected areas. 
Less important conditions included enforcement mechanisms, long-term management
policies and life history of the resources. Fisheries were most successful when
at least eight co-management attributes were present, showing a strong positive
relationship between the number of these attributes and success, owing to
redundancy in management regulations. Our results demonstrate the critical
importance of prominent community leaders and robust social capital, combined
with clear incentives through catch shares and conservation benefits derived from
protected areas, for successfully managing aquatic resources and securing the
livelihoods of communities depending on them. Our study offers hope that
co-management, the only realistic solution for the majority of the world's
fisheries, can solve many of the problems facing global fisheries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09689 
PMID: 21209616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):284-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09701.

lncRNAs transactivate STAU1-mediated mRNA decay by duplexing with 3' UTRs via Alu
elements.

Gong C(1), Maquat LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Medicine and Dentistry,
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642, USA.

Staufen 1 (STAU1)-mediated messenger RNA decay (SMD) involves the degradation of 
translationally active mRNAs whose 3'-untranslated regions (3' UTRs) bind to
STAU1, a protein that binds to double-stranded RNA. Earlier studies defined the
STAU1-binding site within ADP-ribosylation factor 1 (ARF1) mRNA as a 19-base-pair
stem with a 100-nucleotide apex. However, we were unable to identify comparable
structures in the 3' UTRs of other targets of SMD. Here we show that
STAU1-binding sites can be formed by imperfect base-pairing between an Alu
element in the 3' UTR of an SMD target and another Alu element in a cytoplasmic, 
polyadenylated long non-coding RNA (lncRNA). An individual lncRNA can
downregulate a subset of SMD targets, and distinct lncRNAs can downregulate the
same SMD target. These are previously unappreciated functions of non-coding RNAs 
and Alu elements. Not all mRNAs that contain an Alu element in the 3' UTR are
targeted for SMD even in the presence of a complementary lncRNA that targets
other mRNAs for SMD. Most known trans-acting RNA effectors consist of fewer than 
200 nucleotides, and these include small nucleolar RNAs and microRNAs. Our
finding that the binding of STAU1 to mRNAs can be transactivated by lncRNAs
uncovers an unexpected strategy that cells use to recruit proteins to mRNAs and
mediate the decay of these mRNAs. We name these lncRNAs half-STAU1-binding site
RNAs (1/2-sbsRNAs).

DOI: 10.1038/nature09701 
PMCID: PMC3073508
PMID: 21307942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09753.

9p21 DNA variants associated with coronary artery disease impair interferon-γ
signalling response.

Harismendy O(1), Notani D, Song X, Rahim NG, Tanasa B, Heintzman N, Ren B, Fu XD,
Topol EJ, Rosenfeld MG, Frazer KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Rady's Children's Hospital, University of
California at San Diego, School of Medicine, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2011 Jun;4(3):330-1.
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2013 Apr;6(2):224-5.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Mar;12(3):153.

Genome-wide association studies have identified single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) in the 9p21 gene desert associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) and 
type 2 diabetes. Despite evidence for a role of the associated interval in
neighbouring gene regulation, the biological underpinnings of these genetic
associations with CAD or type 2 diabetes have not yet been explained. Here we
identify 33 enhancers in 9p21; the interval is the second densest gene desert for
predicted enhancers and six times denser than the whole genome (P < 6.55 ×
10(-33)). The CAD risk alleles of SNPs rs10811656 and rs10757278 are located in
one of these enhancers and disrupt a binding site for STAT1. Lymphoblastoid cell 
lines homozygous for the CAD risk haplotype show no binding of STAT1, and in
lymphoblastoid cell lines homozygous for the CAD non-risk haplotype, binding of
STAT1 inhibits CDKN2BAS (also known as CDKN2B-AS1) expression, which is reversed 
by short interfering RNA knockdown of STAT1. Using a new, open-ended approach to 
detect long-distance interactions, we find that in human vascular endothelial
cells the enhancer interval containing the CAD locus physically interacts with
the CDKN2A/B locus, the MTAP gene and an interval downstream of IFNA21. In human 
vascular endothelial cells, interferon-γ activation strongly affects the
structure of the chromatin and the transcriptional regulation in the 9p21 locus, 
including STAT1-binding, long-range enhancer interactions and altered expression 
of neighbouring genes. Our findings establish a link between CAD genetic
susceptibility and the response to inflammatory signalling in a vascular cell
type and thus demonstrate the utility of genome-wide association study findings
in directing studies to novel genomic loci and biological processes important for
disease aetiology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09753 
PMCID: PMC3079517
PMID: 21307941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):255-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09676.

Acoelomorph flatworms are deuterostomes related to Xenoturbella.

Philippe H(1), Brinkmann H, Copley RR, Moroz LL, Nakano H, Poustka AJ, Wallberg
A, Peterson KJ, Telford MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Robert-Cedergren, Département de Biochimie, Université de Montréal,
Succursale Centre-Ville, Montréal, Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.

Xenoturbellida and Acoelomorpha are marine worms with contentious ancestry. Both 
were originally associated with the flatworms (Platyhelminthes), but molecular
data have revised their phylogenetic positions, generally linking Xenoturbellida 
to the deuterostomes and positioning the Acoelomorpha as the most basally
branching bilaterian group(s). Recent phylogenomic data suggested that
Xenoturbellida and Acoelomorpha are sister taxa and together constitute an early 
branch of Bilateria. Here we assemble three independent data sets-mitochondrial
genes, a phylogenomic data set of 38,330 amino-acid positions and new microRNA
(miRNA) complements-and show that the position of Acoelomorpha is strongly
affected by a long-branch attraction (LBA) artefact. When we minimize LBA we find
consistent support for a position of both acoelomorphs and Xenoturbella within
the deuterostomes. The most likely phylogeny links Xenoturbella and Acoelomorpha 
in a clade we call Xenacoelomorpha. The Xenacoelomorpha is the sister group of
the Ambulacraria (hemichordates and echinoderms). We show that analyses of miRNA 
complements have been affected by character loss in the acoels and that both
groups possess one miRNA and the gene Rsb66 otherwise specific to deuterostomes. 
In addition, Xenoturbella shares one miRNA with the ambulacrarians, and two with 
the acoels. This phylogeny makes sense of the shared characteristics of
Xenoturbellida and Acoelomorpha, such as ciliary ultrastructure and diffuse
nervous system, and implies the loss of various deuterostome characters in the
Xenacoelomorpha including coelomic cavities, through gut and gill slits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09676 
PMCID: PMC4025995
PMID: 21307940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09751.

Holocene Southern Ocean surface temperature variability west of the Antarctic
Peninsula.

Shevenell AE(1), Ingalls AE, Domack EW, Kelly C.

Author information: 
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA. a.shevenell@ucl.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):247.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):181-2.

The disintegration of ice shelves, reduced sea-ice and glacier extent, and
shifting ecological zones observed around Antarctica highlight the impact of
recent atmospheric and oceanic warming on the cryosphere. Observations and models
suggest that oceanic and atmospheric temperature variations at Antarctica's
margins affect global cryosphere stability, ocean circulation, sea levels and
carbon cycling. In particular, recent climate changes on the Antarctic Peninsula 
have been dramatic, yet the Holocene climate variability of this region is
largely unknown, limiting our ability to evaluate ongoing changes within the
context of historical variability and underlying forcing mechanisms. Here we show
that surface ocean temperatures at the continental margin of the western
Antarctic Peninsula cooled by 3-4 °C over the past 12,000 years, tracking the
Holocene decline of local (65° S) spring insolation. Our results, based on
TEX(86) sea surface temperature (SST) proxy evidence from a marine sediment core,
indicate the importance of regional summer duration as a driver of Antarctic
seasonal sea-ice fluctuations. On millennial timescales, abrupt SST fluctuations 
of 2-4 °C coincide with globally recognized climate variability. Similarities
between our SSTs, Southern Hemisphere westerly wind reconstructions and El
Niño/Southern Oscillation variability indicate that present climate
teleconnections between the tropical Pacific Ocean and the western Antarctic
Peninsula strengthened late in the Holocene epoch. We conclude that during the
Holocene, Southern Ocean temperatures at the western Antarctic Peninsula margin
were tied to changes in the position of the westerlies, which have a critical
role in global carbon cycling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09751 
PMID: 21307939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09723.

Asymmetric additions to dienes catalysed by a dithiophosphoric acid.

Shapiro ND(1), Rauniyar V, Hamilton GL, Wu J, Toste FD.

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):183-5.

Chiral Brønsted acids (proton donors) have been shown to facilitate a broad range
of asymmetric chemical transformations under catalytic conditions without
requiring additional toxic or expensive metals. Although the catalysts developed 
thus far are remarkably effective at activating polarized functional groups, it
is not clear whether organic Brønsted acids can be used to catalyse highly
enantioselective transformations of unactivated carbon-carbon multiple bonds.
This deficiency persists despite the fact that racemic acid-catalysed
'Markovnikov' additions to alkenes are well known chemical transformations. Here 
we show that chiral dithiophosphoric acids can catalyse the intramolecular
hydroamination and hydroarylation of dienes and allenes to generate heterocyclic 
products in exceptional yield and enantiomeric excess. We present a mechanistic
hypothesis that involves the addition of the acid catalyst to the diene, followed
by nucleophilic displacement of the resulting dithiophosphate intermediate; we
also report mass spectroscopic and deuterium labelling studies in support of the 
proposed mechanism. The catalysts and concepts revealed in this study should
prove applicable to other asymmetric functionalizations of unsaturated systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09723 
PMCID: PMC3104668
PMID: 21307938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09749.

Programmable nanowire circuits for nanoprocessors.

Yan H(1), Choe HS, Nam S, Hu Y, Das S, Klemic JF, Ellenbogen JC, Lieber CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

A nanoprocessor constructed from intrinsically nanometre-scale building blocks is
an essential component for controlling memory, nanosensors and other functions
proposed for nanosystems assembled from the bottom up. Important steps towards
this goal over the past fifteen years include the realization of simple logic
gates with individually assembled semiconductor nanowires and carbon nanotubes,
but with only 16 devices or fewer and a single function for each circuit.
Recently, logic circuits also have been demonstrated that use two or three
elements of a one-dimensional memristor array, although such passive devices
without gain are difficult to cascade. These circuits fall short of the
requirements for a scalable, multifunctional nanoprocessor owing to challenges in
materials, assembly and architecture on the nanoscale. Here we describe the
design, fabrication and use of programmable and scalable logic tiles for
nanoprocessors that surmount these hurdles. The tiles were built from
programmable, non-volatile nanowire transistor arrays. Ge/Si core/shell nanowires
coupled to designed dielectric shells yielded single-nanowire, non-volatile
field-effect transistors (FETs) with uniform, programmable threshold voltages and
the capability to drive cascaded elements. We developed an architecture to
integrate the programmable nanowire FETs and define a logic tile consisting of
two interconnected arrays with 496 functional configurable FET nodes in an area
of ∼960 μm(2). The logic tile was programmed and operated first as a full adder
with a maximal voltage gain of ten and input-output voltage matching. Then we
showed that the same logic tile can be reprogrammed and used to demonstrate
full-subtractor, multiplexer, demultiplexer and clocked D-latch functions. These 
results represent a significant advance in the complexity and functionality of
nanoelectronic circuits built from the bottom up with a tiled architecture that
could be cascaded to realize fully integrated nanoprocessors with computing,
memory and addressing capabilities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09749 
PMID: 21307937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):227-32. doi: 10.1038/nature09756.

Structural basis for the subunit assembly of the anaphase-promoting complex.

Schreiber A(1), Stengel F, Zhang Z, Enchev RI, Kong EH, Morris EP, Robinson CV,
da Fonseca PC, Barford D.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty
Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London, SW3 6JB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):182-3.

The anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C) is an unusually large E3
ubiquitin ligase responsible for regulating defined cell cycle transitions.
Information on how its 13 constituent proteins are assembled, and how they
interact with co-activators, substrates and regulatory proteins is limited. Here,
we describe a recombinant expression system that allows the reconstitution of
holo APC/C and its sub-complexes that, when combined with electron microscopy,
mass spectrometry and docking of crystallographic and homology-derived
coordinates, provides a precise definition of the organization and structure of
all essential APC/C subunits, resulting in a pseudo-atomic model for 70% of the
APC/C. A lattice-like appearance of the APC/C is generated by multiple repeat
motifs of most APC/C subunits. Three conserved tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR)
subunits (Cdc16, Cdc23 and Cdc27) share related superhelical homo-dimeric
architectures that assemble to generate a quasi-symmetrical structure. Our
structure explains how this TPR sub-complex, together with additional scaffolding
subunits (Apc1, Apc4 and Apc5), coordinate the juxtaposition of the catalytic and
substrate recognition module (Apc2, Apc11 and Apc10 (also known as Doc1)), and
TPR-phosphorylation sites, relative to co-activator, regulatory proteins and
substrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09756 
PMID: 21307936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):221-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09736.

Functional identification of an aggression locus in the mouse hypothalamus.

Lin D(1), Boyle MP, Dollar P, Lee H, Lein ES, Perona P, Anderson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, 1201 East
California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. dayu.lin@nyumc.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):179-81.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Apr;12(4):186.

Electrical stimulation of certain hypothalamic regions in cats and rodents can
elicit attack behaviour, but the exact location of relevant cells within these
regions, their requirement for naturally occurring aggression and their
relationship to mating circuits have not been clear. Genetic methods for neural
circuit manipulation in mice provide a potentially powerful approach to this
problem, but brain-stimulation-evoked aggression has never been demonstrated in
this species. Here we show that optogenetic, but not electrical, stimulation of
neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamus, ventrolateral subdivision (VMHvl)
causes male mice to attack both females and inanimate objects, as well as males. 
Pharmacogenetic silencing of VMHvl reversibly inhibits inter-male aggression.
Immediate early gene analysis and single unit recordings from VMHvl during social
interactions reveal overlapping but distinct neuronal subpopulations involved in 
fighting and mating. Neurons activated during attack are inhibited during mating,
suggesting a potential neural substrate for competition between these opponent
social behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09736 
PMCID: PMC3075820
PMID: 21307935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):214-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09744.

The genomic complexity of primary human prostate cancer.

Berger MF(1), Lawrence MS, Demichelis F, Drier Y, Cibulskis K, Sivachenko AY,
Sboner A, Esgueva R, Pflueger D, Sougnez C, Onofrio R, Carter SL, Park K,
Habegger L, Ambrogio L, Fennell T, Parkin M, Saksena G, Voet D, Ramos AH, Pugh
TJ, Wilkinson J, Fisher S, Winckler W, Mahan S, Ardlie K, Baldwin J, Simons JW,
Kitabayashi N, MacDonald TY, Kantoff PW, Chin L, Gabriel SB, Gerstein MB, Golub
TR, Meyerson M, Tewari A, Lander ES, Getz G, Rubin MA, Garraway LA.

Author information: 
(1)The Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Prostate cancer is the second most common cause of male cancer deaths in the
United States. However, the full range of prostate cancer genomic alterations is 
incompletely characterized. Here we present the complete sequence of seven
primary human prostate cancers and their paired normal counterparts. Several
tumours contained complex chains of balanced (that is, 'copy-neutral')
rearrangements that occurred within or adjacent to known cancer genes.
Rearrangement breakpoints were enriched near open chromatin, androgen receptor
and ERG DNA binding sites in the setting of the ETS gene fusion TMPRSS2-ERG, but 
inversely correlated with these regions in tumours lacking ETS fusions. This
observation suggests a link between chromatin or transcriptional regulation and
the genesis of genomic aberrations. Three tumours contained rearrangements that
disrupted CADM2, and four harboured events disrupting either PTEN (unbalanced
events), a prostate tumour suppressor, or MAGI2 (balanced events), a PTEN
interacting protein not previously implicated in prostate tumorigenesis. Thus,
genomic rearrangements may arise from transcriptional or chromatin aberrancies
and engage prostate tumorigenic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09744 
PMCID: PMC3075885
PMID: 21307934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):204-13. doi: 10.1038/nature09764.

Charting a course for genomic medicine from base pairs to bedside.

Green ED(1), Guyer MS; National Human Genome Research Institute.

Collaborators: Green ED, Guyer MS, Manolio TA, Peterson JL.

Author information: 
(1)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, 31
Center Dr., Bethesda, Maryland 20892-2152, USA. egreen@nhgri.nih.gov

There has been much progress in genomics in the ten years since a draft sequence 
of the human genome was published. Opportunities for understanding health and
disease are now unprecedented, as advances in genomics are harnessed to obtain
robust foundational knowledge about the structure and function of the human
genome and about the genetic contributions to human health and disease. Here we
articulate a 2011 vision for the future of genomics research and describe the
path towards an era of genomic medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09764 
PMID: 21307933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):198-203. doi: 10.1038/nature09796.

A decade's perspective on DNA sequencing technology.

Mardis ER(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Center at Washington University School of Medicine, Department of
Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108,
USA. emardis@wustl.edu

The decade since the Human Genome Project ended has witnessed a remarkable
sequencing technology explosion that has permitted a multitude of questions about
the genome to be asked and answered, at unprecedented speed and resolution. Here 
I present examples of how the resulting information has both enhanced our
knowledge and expanded the impact of the genome on biomedical research. New
sequencing technologies have also introduced exciting new areas of biological
endeavour. The continuing upward trajectory of sequencing technology development 
is enabling clinical applications that are aimed at improving medical diagnosis
and treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09796 
PMID: 21307932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):187-97. doi: 10.1038/nature09792.

Initial impact of the sequencing of the human genome.

Lander ES(1).

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA. lander@broadinstitute.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):166.

The sequence of the human genome has dramatically accelerated biomedical
research. Here I explore its impact, in the decade since its publication, on our 
understanding of the biological functions encoded in the genome, on the
biological basis of inherited diseases and cancer, and on the evolution and
history of the human species. I also discuss the road ahead in fulfilling the
promise of genomics for medicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09792 
PMID: 21307931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09677. Epub 2011 Feb 2.

SMAD4-dependent barrier constrains prostate cancer growth and metastatic
progression.

Ding Z(1), Wu CJ, Chu GC, Xiao Y, Ho D, Zhang J, Perry SR, Labrot ES, Wu X, Lis
R, Hoshida Y, Hiller D, Hu B, Jiang S, Zheng H, Stegh AH, Scott KL, Signoretti S,
Bardeesy N, Wang YA, Hill DE, Golub TR, Stampfer MJ, Wong WH, Loda M, Mucci L,
Chin L, DePinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Mar;11(3):159.

Effective clinical management of prostate cancer (PCA) has been challenged by
significant intratumoural heterogeneity on the genomic and pathological levels
and limited understanding of the genetic elements governing disease progression. 
Here, we exploited the experimental merits of the mouse to test the hypothesis
that pathways constraining progression might be activated in indolent Pten-null
mouse prostate tumours and that inactivation of such progression barriers in mice
would engender a metastasis-prone condition. Comparative transcriptomic and
canonical pathway analyses, followed by biochemical confirmation, of normal
prostate epithelium versus poorly progressive Pten-null prostate cancers revealed
robust activation of the TGFβ/BMP-SMAD4 signalling axis. The functional relevance
of SMAD4 was further supported by emergence of invasive, metastatic and lethal
prostate cancers with 100% penetrance upon genetic deletion of Smad4 in the
Pten-null mouse prostate. Pathological and molecular analysis as well as
transcriptomic knowledge-based pathway profiling of emerging tumours identified
cell proliferation and invasion as two cardinal tumour biological features in the
metastatic Smad4/Pten-null PCA model. Follow-on pathological and functional
assessment confirmed cyclin D1 and SPP1 as key mediators of these biological
processes, which together with PTEN and SMAD4, form a four-gene signature that is
prognostic of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) biochemical recurrence and lethal
metastasis in human PCA. This model-informed progression analysis, together with 
genetic, functional and translational studies, establishes SMAD4 as a key
regulator of PCA progression in mice and humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09677 
PMCID: PMC3753179
PMID: 21289624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):259-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09675.

Transmembrane semaphorin signalling controls laminar stratification in the
mammalian retina.

Matsuoka RL(1), Nguyen-Ba-Charvet KT, Parray A, Badea TC, Chédotal A, Kolodkin
AL.

Author information: 
(1)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

In the vertebrate retina, establishment of precise synaptic connections among
distinct retinal neuron cell types is critical for processing visual information 
and for accurate visual perception. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), amacrine cells
and bipolar cells establish stereotypic neurite arborization patterns to form
functional neural circuits in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), a laminar region
that is conventionally divided into five major parallel sublaminae. However, the 
molecular mechanisms governing distinct retinal subtype targeting to specific
sublaminae within the IPL remain to be elucidated. Here we show that the
transmembrane semaphorin Sema6A signals through its receptor PlexinA4 (PlexA4) to
control lamina-specific neuronal stratification in the mouse retina. Expression
analyses demonstrate that Sema6A and PlexA4 proteins are expressed in a
complementary fashion in the developing retina: Sema6A in most ON sublaminae and 
PlexA4 in OFF sublaminae of the IPL. Mice with null mutations in PlexA4 or Sema6A
exhibit severe defects in stereotypic lamina-specific neurite arborization of
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing dopaminergic amacrine cells, intrinsically
photosensitive RGCs (ipRGCs) and calbindin-positive cells in the IPL. Sema6A and 
PlexA4 genetically interact in vivo for the regulation of dopaminergic amacrine
cell laminar targeting. Therefore, neuronal targeting to subdivisions of the IPL 
in the mammalian retina is directed by repulsive transmembrane guidance cues
present on neuronal processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09675 
PMCID: PMC3063100
PMID: 21270798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):236-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09722. Epub 2011 Jan 26.

Observation of scale invariance and universality in two-dimensional Bose gases.

Hung CL(1), Zhang X, Gemelke N, Chin C.

Author information: 
(1)The James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. clhung@uchicago.edu

The collective behaviour of a many-body system near a continuous phase transition
is insensitive to the details of its microscopic physics; for example,
thermodynamic observables follow generalized scaling laws near the phase
transition. The Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) phase transition in
two-dimensional Bose gases presents a particularly interesting case because the
marginal dimensionality and intrinsic scaling symmetry result in a broad
fluctuation regime and an extended range of universal scaling behaviour. Studies 
of the BKT transition in cold atoms have stimulated great interest in recent
years, but a clear demonstration of critical behaviour near the phase transition 
has remained elusive. Here we report in situ density and density-fluctuation
measurements of two-dimensional Bose gases of caesium at different temperatures
and interaction strengths, observing scale-invariant, universal behaviours. The
extracted thermodynamic functions confirm the existence of a wide universal
region near the BKT phase transition, and provide a sensitive test of the
universality predicted by classical-field theory and quantum Monte Carlo
calculations. Our experimental results provide evidence for growing
density-density correlations in the fluctuation region, and call for further
explorations of universal phenomena in classical and quantum critical physics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09722 
PMID: 21270797 


787. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):233-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09681. Epub 2011 Jan 12.

A massive protocluster of galaxies at a redshift of z ≈ 5.3.

Capak PL(1), Riechers D, Scoville NZ, Carilli C, Cox P, Neri R, Robertson B,
Salvato M, Schinnerer E, Yan L, Wilson GW, Yun M, Civano F, Elvis M, Karim A,
Mobasher B, Staguhn JG.

Author information: 
(1)Spitzer Science Centre, 314-6 California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. capak@astro.caltech.edu

Massive clusters of galaxies have been found that date from as early as 3.9
billion years (3.9 Gyr; z = 1.62) after the Big Bang, containing stars that
formed at even earlier epochs. Cosmological simulations using the current cold
dark matter model predict that these systems should descend from
'protoclusters'-early overdensities of massive galaxies that merge hierarchically
to form a cluster. These protocluster regions themselves are built up
hierarchically and so are expected to contain extremely massive galaxies that can
be observed as luminous quasars and starbursts. Observational evidence for this
picture, however, is sparse because high-redshift protoclusters are rare and
difficult to observe. Here we report a protocluster region that dates from 1 Gyr 
(z = 5.3) after the Big Bang. This cluster of massive galaxies extends over more 
than 13 megaparsecs and contains a luminous quasar as well as a system rich in
molecular gas. These massive galaxies place a lower limit of more than 4 × 10(11)
solar masses of dark and luminous matter in this region, consistent with that
expected from cosmological simulations for the earliest galaxy clusters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09681 
PMID: 21228776 


788. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):279-83. doi: 10.1038/nature09692. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

A unique chromatin signature uncovers early developmental enhancers in humans.

Rada-Iglesias A(1), Bajpai R, Swigut T, Brugmann SA, Flynn RA, Wysocka J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Feb 4;8(2):128-9.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Nov 2;11(5):581-2.

Cell-fate transitions involve the integration of genomic information encoded by
regulatory elements, such as enhancers, with the cellular environment. However,
identification of genomic sequences that control human embryonic development
represents a formidable challenge. Here we show that in human embryonic stem
cells (hESCs), unique chromatin signatures identify two distinct classes of
genomic elements, both of which are marked by the presence of chromatin
regulators p300 and BRG1, monomethylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4me1),
and low nucleosomal density. In addition, elements of the first class are
distinguished by the acetylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27ac), overlap
with previously characterized hESC enhancers, and are located proximally to genes
expressed in hESCs and the epiblast. In contrast, elements of the second class,
which we term 'poised enhancers', are distinguished by the absence of H3K27ac,
enrichment of histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3), and are linked to
genes inactive in hESCs and instead are involved in orchestrating early steps in 
embryogenesis, such as gastrulation, mesoderm formation and neurulation.
Consistent with the poised identity, during differentiation of hESCs to
neuroepithelium, a neuroectoderm-specific subset of poised enhancers acquires a
chromatin signature associated with active enhancers. When assayed in zebrafish
embryos, poised enhancers are able to direct cell-type and stage-specific
expression characteristic of their proximal developmental gene, even in the
absence of sequence conservation in the fish genome. Our data demonstrate that
early developmental enhancers are epigenetically pre-marked in hESCs and indicate
an unappreciated role of H3K27me3 at distal regulatory elements. Moreover, the
wealth of new regulatory sequences identified here provides an invaluable
resource for studies and isolation of transient, rare cell populations
representing early stages of human embryogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09692 
PMCID: PMC4445674
PMID: 21160473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):274-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09625. Epub 2010 Nov 24.

Structures of APC/C(Cdh1) with substrates identify Cdh1 and Apc10 as the D-box
co-receptor.

da Fonseca PC(1), Kong EH, Zhang Z, Schreiber A, Williams MA, Morris EP, Barford 
D.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty
Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 10;470(7333):182-3.

The ubiquitylation of cell-cycle regulatory proteins by the large multimeric
anaphase-promoting complex (APC/C) controls sister chromatid segregation and the 
exit from mitosis. Selection of APC/C targets is achieved through recognition of 
destruction motifs, predominantly the destruction (D)-box and KEN
(Lys-Glu-Asn)-box. Although this process is known to involve a co-activator
protein (either Cdc20 or Cdh1) together with core APC/C subunits, the structural 
basis for substrate recognition and ubiquitylation is not understood. Here we
investigate budding yeast APC/C using single-particle electron microscopy and
determine a cryo-electron microscopy map of APC/C in complex with the Cdh1
co-activator protein (APC/C(Cdh1)) bound to a D-box peptide at ∼10 Å resolution. 
We find that a combined catalytic and substrate-recognition module is located
within the central cavity of the APC/C assembled from Cdh1, Apc10--a core APC/C
subunit previously implicated in substrate recognition--and the cullin domain of 
Apc2. Cdh1 and Apc10, identified from difference maps, create a co-receptor for
the D-box following repositioning of Cdh1 towards Apc10. Using NMR spectroscopy
we demonstrate specific D-box-Apc10 interactions, consistent with a role for
Apc10 in directly contributing towards D-box recognition by the APC/C(Cdh1)
complex. Our results rationalize the contribution of both co-activator and core
APC/C subunits to D-box recognition and provide a structural framework for
understanding mechanisms of substrate recognition and catalysis by the APC/C.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09625 
PMCID: PMC3037847
PMID: 21107322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):124-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09658.

MMSET regulates histone H4K20 methylation and 53BP1 accumulation at DNA damage
sites.

Pei H(1), Zhang L, Luo K, Qin Y, Chesi M, Fei F, Bergsagel PL, Wang L, You Z, Lou
Z.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

p53-binding protein 1 (53BP1) is known to be an important mediator of the DNA
damage response, with dimethylation of histone H4 lysine 20 (H4K20me2) critical
to the recruitment of 53BP1 to double-strand breaks (DSBs). However, it is not
clear how 53BP1 is specifically targeted to the sites of DNA damage, as the
overall level of H4K20me2 does not seem to increase following DNA damage. It has 
been proposed that DNA breaks may cause exposure of methylated H4K20 previously
buried within the chromosome; however, experimental evidence for such a model is 
lacking. Here we found that H4K20 methylation actually increases locally upon the
induction of DSBs and that methylation of H4K20 at DSBs is mediated by the
histone methyltransferase MMSET (also known as NSD2 or WHSC1) in mammals.
Downregulation of MMSET significantly decreases H4K20 methylation at DSBs and the
subsequent accumulation of 53BP1. Furthermore, we found that the recruitment of
MMSET to DSBs requires the γH2AX-MDC1 pathway; specifically, the interaction
between the MDC1 BRCT domain and phosphorylated Ser 102 of MMSET. Thus, we
propose that a pathway involving γH2AX-MDC1-MMSET regulates the induction of
H4K20 methylation on histones around DSBs, which, in turn, facilitates 53BP1
recruitment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09658 
PMCID: PMC3064261
PMID: 21293379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09766.

Timing of plant immune responses by a central circadian regulator.

Wang W(1), Barnaby JY, Tada Y, Li H, Tör M, Caldelari D, Lee DU, Fu XD, Dong X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):44-5.

The principal immune mechanism against biotrophic pathogens in plants is the
resistance (R)-gene-mediated defence. It was proposed to share components with
the broad-spectrum basal defence machinery. However, the underlying molecular
mechanism is largely unknown. Here we report the identification of novel genes
involved in R-gene-mediated resistance against downy mildew in Arabidopsis and
their regulatory control by the circadian regulator, CIRCADIAN CLOCK-ASSOCIATED 1
(CCA1). Numerical clustering based on phenotypes of these gene mutants revealed
that programmed cell death (PCD) is the major contributor to resistance. Mutants 
compromised in the R-gene-mediated PCD were also defective in basal resistance,
establishing an interconnection between these two distinct defence mechanisms.
Surprisingly, we found that these new defence genes are under circadian control
by CCA1, allowing plants to 'anticipate' infection at dawn when the pathogen
normally disperses the spores and time immune responses according to the
perception of different pathogenic signals upon infection. Temporal control of
the defence genes by CCA1 differentiates their involvement in basal and
R-gene-mediated defence. Our study has revealed a key functional link between the
circadian clock and plant immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09766 
PMID: 21293378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09655.

A thymus candidate in lampreys.

Bajoghli B(1), Guo P, Aghaallaei N, Hirano M, Strohmeier C, McCurley N, Bockman
DE, Schorpp M, Cooper MD, Boehm T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Immunology, Max Planck Institute of Immunobiology 
and Epigenetics, Stuebeweg 51, D-79108 Freiburg, Germany.

Immunologists and evolutionary biologists have been debating the nature of the
immune system of jawless vertebrates--lampreys and hagfish--since the nineteenth 
century. In the past 50 years, these fish were shown to have antibody-like
responses and the capacity to reject allografts but were found to lack the
immunoglobulin-based adaptive immune system of jawed vertebrates. Recent work has
shown that lampreys have lymphocytes that instead express somatically diversified
antigen receptors that contain leucine-rich-repeats, termed variable lymphocyte
receptors (VLRs), and that the type of VLR expressed is specific to the
lymphocyte lineage: T-like lymphocytes express type A VLR (VLRA) genes, and
B-like lymphocytes express VLRB genes. These clonally diverse anticipatory
antigen receptors are assembled from incomplete genomic fragments by gene
conversion, which is thought to be initiated by either of two genes encoding
cytosine deaminase, cytosine deaminase 1 (CDA1) in T-like cells and CDA2 in
B-like cells. It is unknown whether jawless fish, like jawed vertebrates, have
dedicated primary lymphoid organs, such as the thymus, where the development and 
selection of lymphocytes takes place. Here we identify discrete thymus-like
lympho-epithelial structures, termed thymoids, in the tips of the gill filaments 
and the neighbouring secondary lamellae (both within the gill basket) of lamprey 
larvae. Only in the thymoids was expression of the orthologue of the gene
encoding forkhead box N1 (FOXN1), a marker of the thymopoietic microenvironment
in jawed vertebrates, accompanied by expression of CDA1 and VLRA. This expression
pattern was unaffected by immunization of lampreys or by stimulation with a
T-cell mitogen. Non-functional VLRA gene assemblies were found frequently in the 
thymoids but not elsewhere, further implicating the thymoid as the site of
development of T-like cells in lampreys. These findings suggest that the
similarities underlying the dual nature of the adaptive immune systems in the two
sister groups of vertebrates extend to primary lymphoid organs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09655 
PMID: 21293377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09735.

Alternative stable states explain unpredictable biological control of Salvinia
molesta in Kakadu.

Schooler SS(1), Salau B, Julien MH, Ives AR.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences, Long Pocket Laboratories, Indooroopilly, Queensland 
4068, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):47-9.

Suppression of the invasive plant Salvinia molesta by the salvinia weevil is an
iconic example of successful biological control. However, in the billabongs
(oxbow lakes) of Kakadu National Park, Australia, control is fitful and
incomplete. By fitting a process-based nonlinear model to thirteen-year data sets
from four billabongs, here we show that incomplete control can be explained by
alternative stable states--one state in which salvinia is suppressed and the
other in which salvinia escapes weevil control. The shifts between states are
associated with annual flooding events. In some years, high water flow reduces
weevil populations, allowing the shift from a controlled to an uncontrolled
state; in other years, benign conditions for weevils promote the return shift to 
the controlled state. In most described ecological examples, transitions between 
alternative stable states are relatively rare, facilitated by slow-moving
environmental changes, such as accumulated nutrient loading or climate change.
The billabongs of Kakadu give a different manifestation of alternative stable
states that generate complex and seemingly unpredictable dynamics. Because shifts
between alternative stable states are stochastic, they present a potential
management strategy to maximize effective biological control: when the domain of 
attraction to the state of salvinia control is approached, augmentation of the
weevil population or reduction of the salvinia biomass may allow the lower state 
to trap the system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09735 
PMID: 21293376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09739.

Late Holocene methane rise caused by orbitally controlled increase in tropical
sources.

Singarayer JS(1), Valdes PJ, Friedlingstein P, Nelson S, Beerling DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Bristol Research Initiative for the Dynamic Global Environment, School of
Geographical Sciences, University of Bristol, University Road, Bristol, BS8 1SS, 
UK. joy.singarayer@bristol.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):49-50.

Considerable debate surrounds the source of the apparently 'anomalous' increase
of atmospheric methane concentrations since the mid-Holocene (5,000 years ago)
compared to previous interglacial periods as recorded in polar ice core records. 
Proposed mechanisms for the rise in methane concentrations relate either to
methane emissions from anthropogenic early rice cultivation or an increase in
natural wetland emissions from tropical or boreal sources. Here we show that our 
climate and wetland simulations of the global methane cycle over the last glacial
cycle (the past 130,000 years) recreate the ice core record and capture the late 
Holocene increase in methane concentrations. Our analyses indicate that the late 
Holocene increase results from natural changes in the Earth's orbital
configuration, with enhanced emissions in the Southern Hemisphere tropics linked 
to precession-induced modification of seasonal precipitation. Critically, our
simulations capture the declining trend in methane concentrations at the end of
the last interglacial period (115,000-130,000 years ago) that was used to
diagnose the Holocene methane rise as unique. The difference between the two time
periods results from differences in the size and rate of regional insolation
changes and the lack of glacial inception in the Holocene. Our findings also
suggest that no early agricultural sources are required to account for the
increase in methane concentrations in the 5,000 years before the industrial era.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09739 
PMID: 21293375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature09748.

Single mimivirus particles intercepted and imaged with an X-ray laser.

Seibert MM(1), Ekeberg T, Maia FR, Svenda M, Andreasson J, Jönsson O, Odić D,
Iwan B, Rocker A, Westphal D, Hantke M, DePonte DP, Barty A, Schulz J, Gumprecht 
L, Coppola N, Aquila A, Liang M, White TA, Martin A, Caleman C, Stern S, Abergel 
C, Seltzer V, Claverie JM, Bostedt C, Bozek JD, Boutet S, Miahnahri AA,
Messerschmidt M, Krzywinski J, Williams G, Hodgson KO, Bogan MJ, Hampton CY,
Sierra RG, Starodub D, Andersson I, Bajt S, Barthelmess M, Spence JC, Fromme P,
Weierstall U, Kirian R, Hunter M, Doak RB, Marchesini S, Hau-Riege SP, Frank M,
Shoeman RL, Lomb L, Epp SW, Hartmann R, Rolles D, Rudenko A, Schmidt C, Foucar L,
Kimmel N, Holl P, Rudek B, Erk B, Hömke A, Reich C, Pietschner D, Weidenspointner
G, Strüder L, Hauser G, Gorke H, Ullrich J, Schlichting I, Herrmann S, Schaller
G, Schopper F, Soltau H, Kühnel KU, Andritschke R, Schröter CD, Krasniqi F, Bott 
M, Schorb S, Rupp D, Adolph M, Gorkhover T, Hirsemann H, Potdevin G, Graafsma H, 
Nilsson B, Chapman HN, Hajdu J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, 
Uppsala University, Husargatan 3, SE-751 24 Uppsala, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Apr;8(4):283.

X-ray lasers offer new capabilities in understanding the structure of biological 
systems, complex materials and matter under extreme conditions. Very short and
extremely bright, coherent X-ray pulses can be used to outrun key damage
processes and obtain a single diffraction pattern from a large macromolecule, a
virus or a cell before the sample explodes and turns into plasma. The continuous 
diffraction pattern of non-crystalline objects permits oversampling and direct
phase retrieval. Here we show that high-quality diffraction data can be obtained 
with a single X-ray pulse from a non-crystalline biological sample, a single
mimivirus particle, which was injected into the pulsed beam of a hard-X-ray
free-electron laser, the Linac Coherent Light Source. Calculations indicate that 
the energy deposited into the virus by the pulse heated the particle to over
100,000 K after the pulse had left the sample. The reconstructed exit wavefront
(image) yielded 32-nm full-period resolution in a single exposure and showed no
measurable damage. The reconstruction indicates inhomogeneous arrangement of
dense material inside the virion. We expect that significantly higher resolutions
will be achieved in such experiments with shorter and brighter photon pulses
focused to a smaller area. The resolution in such experiments can be further
extended for samples available in multiple identical copies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09748 
PMCID: PMC4038304
PMID: 21293374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09750.

Femtosecond X-ray protein nanocrystallography.

Chapman HN(1), Fromme P, Barty A, White TA, Kirian RA, Aquila A, Hunter MS,
Schulz J, DePonte DP, Weierstall U, Doak RB, Maia FR, Martin AV, Schlichting I,
Lomb L, Coppola N, Shoeman RL, Epp SW, Hartmann R, Rolles D, Rudenko A, Foucar L,
Kimmel N, Weidenspointner G, Holl P, Liang M, Barthelmess M, Caleman C, Boutet S,
Bogan MJ, Krzywinski J, Bostedt C, Bajt S, Gumprecht L, Rudek B, Erk B, Schmidt
C, Hömke A, Reich C, Pietschner D, Strüder L, Hauser G, Gorke H, Ullrich J,
Herrmann S, Schaller G, Schopper F, Soltau H, Kühnel KU, Messerschmidt M, Bozek
JD, Hau-Riege SP, Frank M, Hampton CY, Sierra RG, Starodub D, Williams GJ, Hajdu 
J, Timneanu N, Seibert MM, Andreasson J, Rocker A, Jönsson O, Svenda M, Stern S, 
Nass K, Andritschke R, Schröter CD, Krasniqi F, Bott M, Schmidt KE, Wang X,
Grotjohann I, Holton JM, Barends TR, Neutze R, Marchesini S, Fromme R, Schorb S, 
Rupp D, Adolph M, Gorkhover T, Andersson I, Hirsemann H, Potdevin G, Graafsma H, 
Nilsson B, Spence JC.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, 
Germany. henry.chapman@desy.de

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Apr;8(4):283.

X-ray crystallography provides the vast majority of macromolecular structures,
but the success of the method relies on growing crystals of sufficient size. In
conventional measurements, the necessary increase in X-ray dose to record data
from crystals that are too small leads to extensive damage before a diffraction
signal can be recorded. It is particularly challenging to obtain large,
well-diffracting crystals of membrane proteins, for which fewer than 300 unique
structures have been determined despite their importance in all living cells.
Here we present a method for structure determination where single-crystal X-ray
diffraction 'snapshots' are collected from a fully hydrated stream of
nanocrystals using femtosecond pulses from a hard-X-ray free-electron laser, the 
Linac Coherent Light Source. We prove this concept with nanocrystals of
photosystem I, one of the largest membrane protein complexes. More than 3,000,000
diffraction patterns were collected in this study, and a three-dimensional data
set was assembled from individual photosystem I nanocrystals (∼200 nm to 2 μm in 
size). We mitigate the problem of radiation damage in crystallography by using
pulses briefer than the timescale of most damage processes. This offers a new
approach to structure determination of macromolecules that do not yield crystals 
of sufficient size for studies using conventional radiation sources or are
particularly sensitive to radiation damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09750 
PMCID: PMC3429598
PMID: 21293373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):59-65. doi: 10.1038/nature09708.

Mapping copy number variation by population-scale genome sequencing.

Mills RE, Walter K, Stewart C, Handsaker RE, Chen K, Alkan C, Abyzov A, Yoon SC, 
Ye K, Cheetham RK, Chinwalla A, Conrad DF, Fu Y, Grubert F, Hajirasouliha I,
Hormozdiari F, Iakoucheva LM, Iqbal Z, Kang S, Kidd JM, Konkel MK, Korn J,
Khurana E, Kural D, Lam HY, Leng J, Li R, Li Y, Lin CY, Luo R, Mu XJ, Nemesh J,
Peckham HE, Rausch T, Scally A, Shi X, Stromberg MP, Stütz AM, Urban AE, Walker
JA, Wu J, Zhang Y, Zhang ZD, Batzer MA, Ding L, Marth GT, McVean G, Sebat J,
Snyder M, Wang J, Ye K, Eichler EE, Gerstein MB, Hurles ME, Lee C, McCarroll SA, 
Korbel JO; 1000 Genomes Project.

Collaborators: Altshuler DL, Durbin RM, Abecasis GR, Bentley DR, Chakravarti A,
Clark AG, Collins FS, De La Vega FM, Donnelly P, Egholm M, Flicek P, Gabriel SB, 
Gibbs RA, Knoppers BM, Lander ES, Lehrach H, Mardis ER, McVean GA, Nickerson DA, 
Peltonen L, Schafer AJ, Sherry ST, Wang J, Wilson RK, Gibbs RA, Deiros D, Metzker
M, Muzny D, Reid J, Wheeler D, Wang J, Li J, Jian M, Li G, Li R, Liang H, Tian G,
Wang B, Wang J, Wang W, Yang H, Zhang X, Zheng H, Lander ES, Altshuler DL,
Ambrogio L, Bloom T, Cibulskis K, Fennell TJ, Gabriel SB, Jaffe DB, Shefler E,
Sougnez CL, Bentley DR, Gormley N, Humphray S, Kingsbury Z, Koko-Gonzales P,
Stone J, McKernan KJ, Costa GL, Ichikawa JK, Lee CC, Sudbrak R, Lehrach H,
Borodina TA, Dahl A, Davydov AN, Marquardt P, Mertes F, Nietfeld W, Rosenstiel P,
Schreiber S, Soldatov AV, Timmermann B, Tolzmann M, Egholm M, Affourtit J,
Ashworth D, Attiya S, Bachorski M, Buglione E, Burke A, Caprio A, Celone C, Clark
S, Conners D, Desany B, Gu L, Guccione L, Kao K, Kebbel A, Knowlton J, Labrecque 
M, McDade L, Mealmaker C, Minderman M, Nawrocki A, Niazi F, Pareja K, Ramenani R,
Riches D, Song W, Turcotte C, Wang S, Mardis ER, Wilson RK, Dooling D, Fulton L, 
Fulton R, Weinstock G, Durbin RM, Burton J, Carter DM, Churcher C, Coffey A, Cox 
A, Palotie A, Quail M, Skelly T, Stalker J, Swerdlow HP, Turner D, De Witte A,
Giles S, Gibbs RA, Wheeler D, Bainbridge M, Challis D, Sabo A, Yu F, Yu J, Wang
J, Fang X, Guo X, Li R, Li Y, Luo R, Tai S, Wu H, Zheng H, Zheng X, Zhou Y, Li G,
Wang J, Yang H, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Huang W, Indap A, Kural D, Lee WP, Leong
WF, Quinlan AR, Stewart C, Stromberg MP, Ward AN, Wu J, Lee C, Mills RE, Shi X,
Daly MJ, DePristo MA, Altshuler DL, Ball AD, Banks E, Bloom T, Browning BL,
Cibulskis K, Fennell TJ, Garimella KV, Grossman SR, Handsaker RE, Hanna M, Hartl 
C, Jaffe DB, Kernytsky AM, Korn JM, Li H, Maguire JR, McCarroll SA, McKenna A,
Nemesh JC, Philippakis AA, Poplin RE, Price A, Rivas MA, Sabeti PC, Schaffner SF,
Shefler E, Shlyakhter IA, Cooper DN, Ball EV, Mort M, Phillips AD, Stenson PD,
Sebat J, Makarov V, Ye K, Yoon SC, Bustamante CD, Clark AG, Boyko A, Degenhardt
J, Gravel S, Gutenkunst RN, Kaganovich M, Keinan A, Lacroute P, Ma X, Reynolds A,
Clarke L, Flicek P, Cunningham F, Herrero J, Keenen S, Kulesha E, Leinonen R,
McLaren WM, Radhakrishnan R, Smith RE, Zalunin V, Zheng-Bradley X, Korbel JO,
Stütz AM, Humphray S, Bauer M, Cheetham RK, Cox T, Eberle M, James T, Kahn S,
Murray L, Chakravarti A, Ye K, De La Vega FM, Fu Y, Hyland FC, Manning JM,
McLaughlin SF, Peckham HE, Sakarya O, Sun YA, Tsung EF, Batzer MA, Konkel MK,
Walker JA, Sudbrak R, Albrecht MW, Amstislavskiy VS, Herwig R, Parkhomchuk DV,
Sherry ST, Agarwala R, Khouri H, Morgulis AO, Paschall JE, Phan LD, Rotmistrovsky
KE, Sanders RD, Shumway MF, Xiao C, McVean GA, Auton A, Iqbal Z, Lunter G,
Marchini JL, Moutsianas L, Myers S, Tumian A, Desany B, Knight J, Winer R, Craig 
DW, Beckstrom-Sternberg SM, Christoforides A, Kurdoglu AA, Pearson JV, Sinari SA,
Tembe WD, Haussler D, Hinrichs AS, Katzman SJ, Kern A, Kuhn RM, Przeworski M,
Hernandez RD, Howie B, Kelley JL, Melton SC, Abecasis GR, Li Y, Anderson P,
Blackwell T, Chen W, Cookson WO, Ding J, Kang HM, Lathrop M, Liang L, Moffatt MF,
Scheet P, Sidore C, Snyder M, Zhan X, Zöllner S, Awadalla P, Casals F, Idaghdour 
Y, Keebler J, Stone EA, Zilversmit M, Jorde L, Xing J, Eichler EE, Aksay G, Alkan
C, Hajirasouliha I, Hormozdiari F, Kidd JM, Sahinalp SC, Sudmant PH, Mardis ER,
Chen K, Chinwalla A, Ding L, Koboldt DC, McLellan MD, Dooling D, Weinstock G,
Wallis JW, Wendl MC, Zhang Q, Durbin RM, Albers CA, Ayub Q, Balasubramaniam S,
Barrett JC, Carter DM, Chen Y, Conrad DF, Danecek P, Dermitzakis ET, Hu M, Huang 
N, Hurles ME, Jin H, Jostins L, Keane TM, Le SQ, Lindsay S, Long Q, MacArthur DG,
Montgomery SB, Parts L, Stalker J, Tyler-Smith C, Walter K, Zhang Y, Gerstein MB,
Snyder M, Abyzov A, Balasubramanian S, Bjornson R, Du J, Grubert F, Habegger L,
Haraksingh R, Jee J, Khurana E, Lam HY, Jeng J, Mu XJ, Urban AE, Zhang Z, Li Y,
Luo R, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Kural D, Quinlan AR, Stewart C, Stromberg MP, Ward 
AN, Wu J, Lee C, Mills RE, Shi X, McCarroll SA, Bank E, DePristo MA, Handsaker
RE, Hartl C, Korn JM, Li H, Nemesh JC, Sebat J, Makarov V, Ye K, Yoon S,
Degenhardt J, Kaganovich M, Clarke L, Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X, Korbel JO,
Humphray S, Cheetham RK, Eberle M, Kahn S, Murray L, Ye K, De La Vega FM, Fu Y,
Peckham HE, Sun YA, Batzer MA, Konkel MK, Walker JA, Xiao C, Iqbal Z, Desany B,
Blackwell T, Snyder M, Xing J, Eichler EE, Aksay G, Alkan C, Hajirasouliha I,
Hormozdiari F, Kidd J, Chen K, Chinwalla A, Ding L, McLellan MD, Wallis JW,
Hurles ME, Conrad DF, Walter K, Zhang Y, Gerstein MB, Snyder M, Abyzov A, Du J,
Grubert F, Haraksingh R, Jee J, Khurana E, Lam HY, Leng J, Mu XJ, Urban AE, Zhang
Z, Gibbs RA, Bainbridge M, Challis D, Coafra C, Dinh H, Kovar C, Lee S, Muzny D, 
Nazareth L, Reid J, Sabo A, Yu F, Yu J, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Indap A, Leong WF,
Quinlan AR, Stewart C, Ward AN, Wu J, Cibulskis K, Fennell TJ, Gabriel SB,
Garimella KV, Hartl C, Shefler E, Sougnez CL, Wilkinson J, Clark AG, Gravel S,
Grubert F, Clarke L, Flicek P, Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X, Sherry ST, Khouri HM,
Paschall JE, Shumway MF, Xiao C, McVean GA, Katzman SJ, Abecasis GR, Blackwell T,
Mardis ER, Dooling D, Fulton L, Fulton R, Koboldt DC, Durbin RM, Balasubramaniam 
S, Coffey A, Keane TM, MacArthur DG, Palotie A, Scott C, Stalker J, Tyler-Smith
C, Gerstein MB, Balasubramanian S, Chakravarti A, Knoppers BM, Peltonen L,
Abecasis GR, Bustamante CD, Gharani N, Gibbs RA, Jorde L, Kaye JS, Kent A, Li T, 
McGuire AL, McVean GA, Ossorio PN, Rotimi CN, Su Y, Toji LH, Tyler-Smith C,
Brooks LD, Felsenfeld AL, McEwen JE, Abdallah A, Juenger CR, Clemm NC, Collins
FS, Duncanson A, Green ED, Guyer MS, Peterson JL, Schafer AJ.

Genomic structural variants (SVs) are abundant in humans, differing from other
forms of variation in extent, origin and functional impact. Despite progress in
SV characterization, the nucleotide resolution architecture of most SVs remains
unknown. We constructed a map of unbalanced SVs (that is, copy number variants)
based on whole genome DNA sequencing data from 185 human genomes, integrating
evidence from complementary SV discovery approaches with extensive experimental
validations. Our map encompassed 22,025 deletions and 6,000 additional SVs,
including insertions and tandem duplications. Most SVs (53%) were mapped to
nucleotide resolution, which facilitated analysing their origin and functional
impact. We examined numerous whole and partial gene deletions with a genotyping
approach and observed a depletion of gene disruptions amongst high frequency
deletions. Furthermore, we observed differences in the size spectra of SVs
originating from distinct formation mechanisms, and constructed a map of SV
hotspots formed by common mechanisms. Our analytical framework and SV map serves 
as a resource for sequencing-based association studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09708 
PMCID: PMC3077050
PMID: 21293372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):53-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09760.

A closely packed system of low-mass, low-density planets transiting Kepler-11.

Lissauer JJ(1), Fabrycky DC, Ford EB, Borucki WJ, Fressin F, Marcy GW, Orosz JA, 
Rowe JF, Torres G, Welsh WF, Batalha NM, Bryson ST, Buchhave LA, Caldwell DA,
Carter JA, Charbonneau D, Christiansen JL, Cochran WD, Desert JM, Dunham EW,
Fanelli MN, Fortney JJ, Gautier TN 3rd, Geary JC, Gilliland RL, Haas MR, Hall JR,
Holman MJ, Koch DG, Latham DW, Lopez E, McCauliff S, Miller N, Morehead RC,
Quintana EV, Ragozzine D, Sasselov D, Short DR, Steffen JH.

Author information: 
(1)NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA.
jack.lissauer@nasa.gov

When an extrasolar planet passes in front of (transits) its star, its radius can 
be measured from the decrease in starlight and its orbital period from the time
between transits. Multiple planets transiting the same star reveal much more:
period ratios determine stability and dynamics, mutual gravitational interactions
reflect planet masses and orbital shapes, and the fraction of transiting planets 
observed as multiples has implications for the planarity of planetary systems.
But few stars have more than one known transiting planet, and none has more than 
three. Here we report Kepler spacecraft observations of a single Sun-like star,
which we call Kepler-11, that reveal six transiting planets, five with orbital
periods between 10 and 47 days and a sixth planet with a longer period. The five 
inner planets are among the smallest for which mass and size have both been
measured, and these measurements imply substantial envelopes of light gases. The 
degree of coplanarity and proximity of the planetary orbits imply energy
dissipation near the end of planet formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09760 
PMID: 21293371 


799. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):95-100. doi: 10.1038/nature09669. Epub 2011 Jan 26.

Identification of adult nephron progenitors capable of kidney regeneration in
zebrafish.

Diep CQ(1), Ma D, Deo RC, Holm TM, Naylor RW, Arora N, Wingert RA, Bollig F,
Djordjevic G, Lichman B, Zhu H, Ikenaga T, Ono F, Englert C, Cowan CA, Hukriede
NA, Handin RI, Davidson AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Mar 4;8(3):247-9.

Loss of kidney function underlies many renal diseases. Mammals can partly repair 
their nephrons (the functional units of the kidney), but cannot form new ones. By
contrast, fish add nephrons throughout their lifespan and regenerate nephrons de 
novo after injury, providing a model for understanding how mammalian renal
regeneration may be therapeutically activated. Here we trace the source of new
nephrons in the adult zebrafish to small cellular aggregates containing nephron
progenitors. Transplantation of single aggregates comprising 10-30 cells is
sufficient to engraft adults and generate multiple nephrons. Serial
transplantation experiments to test self-renewal revealed that nephron
progenitors are long-lived and possess significant replicative potential,
consistent with stem-cell activity. Transplantation of mixed nephron progenitors 
tagged with either green or red fluorescent proteins yielded some mosaic
nephrons, indicating that multiple nephron progenitors contribute to a single
nephron. Consistent with this, live imaging of nephron formation in transparent
larvae showed that nephrogenic aggregates form by the coalescence of multiple
cells and then differentiate into nephrons. Taken together, these data
demonstrate that the zebrafish kidney probably contains self-renewing nephron
stem/progenitor cells. The identification of these cells paves the way to
isolating or engineering the equivalent cells in mammals and developing novel
renal regenerative therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09669 
PMCID: PMC3170921
PMID: 21270795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):120-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09745. Epub 2011 Jan 23.

Cell-type-specific replication initiation programs set fragility of the FRA3B
fragile site.

Letessier A(1), Millot GA, Koundrioukoff S, Lachagès AM, Vogt N, Hansen RS,
Malfoy B, Brison O, Debatisse M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, Centre de Recherche, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):46-7.

Common fragile sites have long been identified by cytogeneticists as chromosomal 
regions prone to breakage upon replication stress. They are increasingly
recognized to be preferential targets for oncogene-induced DNA damage in
pre-neoplastic lesions and hotspots for chromosomal rearrangements in various
cancers. Common fragile site instability was attributed to the fact that they
contain sequences prone to form secondary structures that may impair replication 
fork movement, possibly leading to fork collapse resulting in DNA breaks. Here we
show, in contrast to this view, that the fragility of FRA3B--the most active
common fragile site in human lymphocytes--does not rely on fork slowing or
stalling but on a paucity of initiation events. Indeed, in lymphoblastoid cells, 
but not in fibroblasts, initiation events are excluded from a FRA3B core
extending approximately 700 kilobases, which forces forks coming from flanking
regions to cover long distances in order to complete replication. We also show
that origins of the flanking regions fire in mid-S phase, leaving the site
incompletely replicated upon fork slowing. Notably, FRA3B instability is specific
to cells showing this particular initiation pattern. The fact that both origin
setting and replication timing are highly plastic in mammalian cells explains the
tissue specificity of common fragile site instability we observed. Thus, we
propose that common fragile sites correspond to the latest initiation-poor
regions to complete replication in a given cell type. For historical reasons,
common fragile sites have been essentially mapped in lymphocytes. Therefore,
common fragile site contribution to chromosomal rearrangements in tumours should 
be reassessed after mapping fragile sites in the cell type from which each tumour
originates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09745 
PMID: 21258320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):69-72. doi: 10.1038/nature09696. Epub 2011 Jan 19.

Entanglement in a solid-state spin ensemble.

Simmons S(1), Brown RM, Riemann H, Abrosimov NV, Becker P, Pohl HJ, Thewalt ML,
Itoh KM, Morton JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials, Oxford University, Oxford OX1 3PH, UK.

Entanglement is the quintessential quantum phenomenon. It is a necessary
ingredient in most emerging quantum technologies, including quantum repeaters,
quantum information processing and the strongest forms of quantum cryptography.
Spin ensembles, such as those used in liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance,
have been important for the development of quantum control methods. However,
these demonstrations contain no entanglement and ultimately constitute classical 
simulations of quantum algorithms. Here we report the on-demand generation of
entanglement between an ensemble of electron and nuclear spins in isotopically
engineered, phosphorus-doped silicon. We combined high-field (3.4 T),
low-temperature (2.9 K) electron spin resonance with hyperpolarization of the
(31)P nuclear spin to obtain an initial state of sufficient purity to create a
non-classical, inseparable state. The state was verified using density matrix
tomography based on geometric phase gates, and had a fidelity of 98% relative to 
the ideal state at this field and temperature. The entanglement operation was
performed simultaneously, with high fidelity, on 10(10) spin pairs; this fulfils 
one of the essential requirements for a silicon-based quantum information
processor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09696 
PMID: 21248751 


802. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09656. Epub 2011 Jan 12.

Reversing pathological neural activity using targeted plasticity.

Engineer ND(1), Riley JR, Seale JD, Vrana WA, Shetake JA, Sudanagunta SP, Borland
MS, Kilgard MP.

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Plasticity Laboratory, Behavioral and Brain Sciences, University of
Texas at Dallas, Richardson, Texas 75080, USA. navzer@utdallas.edu

Brain changes in response to nerve damage or cochlear trauma can generate
pathological neural activity that is believed to be responsible for many types of
chronic pain and tinnitus. Several studies have reported that the severity of
chronic pain and tinnitus is correlated with the degree of map reorganization in 
somatosensory and auditory cortex, respectively. Direct electrical or
transcranial magnetic stimulation of sensory cortex can temporarily disrupt these
phantom sensations. However, there is as yet no direct evidence for a causal role
of plasticity in the generation of pain or tinnitus. Here we report evidence that
reversing the brain changes responsible can eliminate the perceptual impairment
in an animal model of noise-induced tinnitus. Exposure to intense noise degrades 
the frequency tuning of auditory cortex neurons and increases cortical
synchronization. Repeatedly pairing tones with brief pulses of vagus nerve
stimulation completely eliminated the physiological and behavioural correlates of
tinnitus in noise-exposed rats. These improvements persisted for weeks after the 
end of therapy. This method for restoring neural activity to normal may be
applicable to a variety of neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09656 
PMCID: PMC3295231
PMID: 21228773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):66-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09724. Epub 2011 Jan 9.

An actively accreting massive black hole in the dwarf starburst galaxy
Henize 2-10.

Reines AE(1), Sivakoff GR, Johnson KE, Brogan CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Virginia, 530 McCormick Road,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, USA. areines@virginia.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):45-6.

Supermassive black holes are now thought to lie at the heart of every giant
galaxy with a spheroidal component, including our own Milky Way. The birth and
growth of the first 'seed' black holes in the earlier Universe, however, is
observationally unconstrained and we are only beginning to piece together a
scenario for their subsequent evolution. Here we report that the nearby dwarf
starburst galaxy Henize 2-10 (refs 5 and 6) contains a compact radio source at
the dynamical centre of the galaxy that is spatially coincident with a hard X-ray
source. From these observations, we conclude that Henize 2-10 harbours an
actively accreting central black hole with a mass of approximately one million
solar masses. This nearby dwarf galaxy, simultaneously hosting a massive black
hole and an extreme burst of star formation, is analogous in many ways to
galaxies in the infant Universe during the early stages of black-hole growth and 
galaxy mass assembly. Our results confirm that nearby star-forming dwarf galaxies
can indeed form massive black holes, and that by implication so can their
primordial counterparts. Moreover, the lack of a substantial spheroidal component
in Henize 2-10 indicates that supermassive black-hole growth may precede the
build-up of galaxy spheroids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09724 
PMID: 21217688 


804. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09671. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Oncogenically active MYD88 mutations in human lymphoma.

Ngo VN(1), Young RM, Schmitz R, Jhavar S, Xiao W, Lim KH, Kohlhammer H, Xu W,
Yang Y, Zhao H, Shaffer AL, Romesser P, Wright G, Powell J, Rosenwald A,
Muller-Hermelink HK, Ott G, Gascoyne RD, Connors JM, Rimsza LM, Campo E, Jaffe
ES, Delabie J, Smeland EB, Fisher RI, Braziel RM, Tubbs RR, Cook JR, Weisenburger
DD, Chan WC, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

The activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) 
remains the least curable form of this malignancy despite recent advances in
therapy. Constitutive nuclear factor (NF)-κB and JAK kinase signalling promotes
malignant cell survival in these lymphomas, but the genetic basis for this
signalling is incompletely understood. Here we describe the dependence of ABC
DLBCLs on MYD88, an adaptor protein that mediates toll and interleukin (IL)-1
receptor signalling, and the discovery of highly recurrent oncogenic mutations
affecting MYD88 in ABC DLBCL tumours. RNA interference screening revealed that
MYD88 and the associated kinases IRAK1 and IRAK4 are essential for ABC DLBCL
survival. High-throughput RNA resequencing uncovered MYD88 mutations in ABC DLBCL
lines. Notably, 29% of ABC DLBCL tumours harboured the same amino acid
substitution, L265P, in the MYD88 Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain at an
evolutionarily invariant residue in its hydrophobic core. This mutation was rare 
or absent in other DLBCL subtypes and Burkitt's lymphoma, but was observed in 9% 
of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas. At a lower frequency, additional 
mutations were observed in the MYD88 TIR domain, occurring in both the ABC and
germinal centre B-cell-like (GCB) DLBCL subtypes. Survival of ABC DLBCL cells
bearing the L265P mutation was sustained by the mutant but not the wild-type
MYD88 isoform, demonstrating that L265P is a gain-of-function driver mutation.
The L265P mutant promoted cell survival by spontaneously assembling a protein
complex containing IRAK1 and IRAK4, leading to IRAK4 kinase activity, IRAK1
phosphorylation, NF-κB signalling, JAK kinase activation of STAT3, and secretion 
of IL-6, IL-10 and interferon-β. Hence, the MYD88 signalling pathway is integral 
to the pathogenesis of ABC DLBCL, supporting the development of inhibitors of
IRAK4 kinase and other components of this pathway for the treatment of tumours
bearing oncogenic MYD88 mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09671 
PMCID: PMC5024568
PMID: 21179087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nature. 2011 Feb 3;470(7332):105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09691. Epub 2010 Dec 12.

Directed differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into intestinal tissue
in vitro.

Spence JR(1), Mayhew CN, Rankin SA, Kuhar MF, Vallance JE, Tolle K, Hoskins EE,
Kalinichenko VV, Wells SI, Zorn AM, Shroyer NF, Wells JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2011 Feb;8(2):111.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2011 Feb;8(2):63.

Studies in embryonic development have guided successful efforts to direct the
differentiation of human embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) into
specific organ cell types in vitro. For example, human PSCs have been
differentiated into monolayer cultures of liver hepatocytes and pancreatic
endocrine cells that have therapeutic efficacy in animal models of liver disease 
and diabetes, respectively. However, the generation of complex three-dimensional 
organ tissues in vitro remains a major challenge for translational studies. Here 
we establish a robust and efficient process to direct the differentiation of
human PSCs into intestinal tissue in vitro using a temporal series of growth
factor manipulations to mimic embryonic intestinal development. This involved
activin-induced definitive endoderm formation, FGF/Wnt-induced posterior endoderm
pattering, hindgut specification and morphogenesis, and a pro-intestinal culture 
system to promote intestinal growth, morphogenesis and cytodifferentiation. The
resulting three-dimensional intestinal 'organoids' consisted of a polarized,
columnar epithelium that was patterned into villus-like structures and crypt-like
proliferative zones that expressed intestinal stem cell markers. The epithelium
contained functional enterocytes, as well as goblet, Paneth and enteroendocrine
cells. Using this culture system as a model to study human intestinal
development, we identified that the combined activity of WNT3A and FGF4 is
required for hindgut specification whereas FGF4 alone is sufficient to promote
hindgut morphogenesis. Our data indicate that human intestinal stem cells form de
novo during development. We also determined that NEUROG3, a pro-endocrine
transcription factor that is mutated in enteric anendocrinosis, is both necessary
and sufficient for human enteroendocrine cell development in vitro. PSC-derived
human intestinal tissue should allow for unprecedented studies of human
intestinal development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09691 
PMCID: PMC3033971
PMID: 21151107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):559-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09688.

Structural basis for site-specific ribose methylation by box C/D RNA protein
complexes.

Lin J(1), Lai S, Jia R, Xu A, Zhang L, Lu J, Ye K.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China.

Box C/D RNA protein complexes (RNPs) direct site-specific 2'-O-methylation of RNA
and ribosome assembly. The guide RNA in C/D RNP forms base pairs with
complementary substrates and selects the modification site using a molecular
ruler. Despite many studies of C/D RNP structure, the fundamental questions of
how C/D RNAs assemble into RNPs and how they guide modification remain
unresolved. Here we report the crystal structure of an entire catalytically
active archaeal C/D RNP consisting of a bipartite C/D RNA associated with two
substrates and two copies each of Nop5, L7Ae and fibrillarin at 3.15-Å
resolution. The substrate pairs with the second through the eleventh nucleotide
of the 12-nucleotide guide, and the resultant duplex is bracketed in a channel
with flexible ends. The methyltransferase fibrillarin binds to an undistorted
A-form structure of the guide-substrate duplex and specifically loads the target 
ribose into the active site. Because interaction with the RNA duplex alone does
not determine the site specificity, fibrillarin is further positioned by
non-specific and specific protein interactions. Compared with the structure of
the inactive C/D RNP, extensive domain movements are induced by substrate
loading. Our results reveal the organization of a monomeric C/D RNP and the
mechanism underlying its site-specific methylation activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09688 
PMID: 21270896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):554-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09654.

Circadian rhythms persist without transcription in a eukaryote.

O'Neill JS(1), van Ooijen G, Dixon LE, Troein C, Corellou F, Bouget FY, Reddy AB,
Millar AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Systems Biology at Edinburgh, C.H. Waddington Building, Mayfield
Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JD, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):476-8.

Circadian rhythms are ubiquitous in eukaryotes, and coordinate numerous aspects
of behaviour, physiology and metabolism, from sleep/wake cycles in mammals to
growth and photosynthesis in plants. This daily timekeeping is thought to be
driven by transcriptional-translational feedback loops, whereby rhythmic
expression of 'clock' gene products regulates the expression of associated genes 
in approximately 24-hour cycles. The specific transcriptional components differ
between phylogenetic kingdoms. The unicellular pico-eukaryotic alga Ostreococcus 
tauri possesses a naturally minimized clock, which includes many features that
are shared with plants, such as a central negative feedback loop that involves
the morning-expressed CCA1 and evening-expressed TOC1 genes. Given that recent
observations in animals and plants have revealed prominent post-translational
contributions to timekeeping, a reappraisal of the transcriptional contribution
to oscillator function is overdue. Here we show that non-transcriptional
mechanisms are sufficient to sustain circadian timekeeping in the eukaryotic
lineage, although they normally function in conjunction with transcriptional
components. We identify oxidation of peroxiredoxin proteins as a
transcription-independent rhythmic biomarker, which is also rhythmic in mammals. 
Moreover we show that pharmacological modulators of the mammalian clock mechanism
have the same effects on rhythms in Ostreococcus. Post-translational mechanisms, 
and at least one rhythmic marker, seem to be better conserved than
transcriptional clock regulators. It is plausible that the oldest oscillator
components are non-transcriptional in nature, as in cyanobacteria, and are
conserved across kingdoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09654 
PMCID: PMC3040569
PMID: 21270895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):543-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09646.

Bifidobacteria can protect from enteropathogenic infection through production of 
acetate.

Fukuda S(1), Toh H, Hase K, Oshima K, Nakanishi Y, Yoshimura K, Tobe T, Clarke
JM, Topping DL, Suzuki T, Taylor TD, Itoh K, Kikuchi J, Morita H, Hattori M, Ohno
H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Epithelial Immunobiology, RIKEN Research Center for Allergy and
Immunology, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan.

The human gut is colonized with a wide variety of microorganisms, including
species, such as those belonging to the bacterial genus Bifidobacterium, that
have beneficial effects on human physiology and pathology. Among the most
distinctive benefits of bifidobacteria are modulation of host defence responses
and protection against infectious diseases. Nevertheless, the molecular
mechanisms underlying these effects have barely been elucidated. To investigate
these mechanisms, we used mice associated with certain bifidobacterial strains
and a simplified model of lethal infection with enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia
coli O157:H7, together with an integrated 'omics' approach. Here we show that
genes encoding an ATP-binding-cassette-type carbohydrate transporter present in
certain bifidobacteria contribute to protecting mice against death induced by E. 
coli O157:H7. We found that this effect can be attributed, at least in part, to
increased production of acetate and that translocation of the E. coli O157:H7
Shiga toxin from the gut lumen to the blood was inhibited. We propose that
acetate produced by protective bifidobacteria improves intestinal defence
mediated by epithelial cells and thereby protects the host against lethal
infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09646 
PMID: 21270894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):534-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09651.

Distinct physiological and behavioural functions for parental alleles of
imprinted Grb10.

Garfield AS(1), Cowley M, Smith FM, Moorwood K, Stewart-Cox JE, Gilroy K, Baker
S, Xia J, Dalley JW, Hurst LD, Wilkinson LS, Isles AR, Ward A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology & Biochemistry and Centre for Regenerative Medicine,
University of Bath, Claverton Down, Bath BA2 7AY, UK.

Imprinted genes, defined by their preferential expression of a single parental
allele, represent a subset of the mammalian genome and often have key roles in
embryonic development, but also postnatal functions including energy homeostasis 
and behaviour. When the two parental alleles are unequally represented within a
social group (when there is sex bias in dispersal and/or variance in reproductive
success), imprinted genes may evolve to modulate social behaviour, although so
far no such instance is known. Predominantly expressed from the maternal allele
during embryogenesis, Grb10 encodes an intracellular adaptor protein that can
interact with several receptor tyrosine kinases and downstream signalling
molecules. Here we demonstrate that within the brain Grb10 is expressed from the 
paternal allele from fetal life into adulthood and that ablation of this
expression engenders increased social dominance specifically among other aspects 
of social behaviour, a finding supported by the observed increase in allogrooming
by paternal Grb10-deficient animals. Grb10 is, therefore, the first example of an
imprinted gene that regulates social behaviour. It is also currently alone in
exhibiting imprinted expression from each of the parental alleles in a
tissue-specific manner, as loss of the peripherally expressed maternal allele
leads to significant fetal and placental overgrowth. Thus Grb10 is, so far, a
unique imprinted gene, able to influence distinct physiological processes, fetal 
growth and adult behaviour, owing to actions of the two parental alleles in
different tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09651 
PMCID: PMC3031026
PMID: 21270893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature09687.

Comparative and demographic analysis of orang-utan genomes.

Locke DP(1), Hillier LW, Warren WC, Worley KC, Nazareth LV, Muzny DM, Yang SP,
Wang Z, Chinwalla AT, Minx P, Mitreva M, Cook L, Delehaunty KD, Fronick C,
Schmidt H, Fulton LA, Fulton RS, Nelson JO, Magrini V, Pohl C, Graves TA,
Markovic C, Cree A, Dinh HH, Hume J, Kovar CL, Fowler GR, Lunter G, Meader S,
Heger A, Ponting CP, Marques-Bonet T, Alkan C, Chen L, Cheng Z, Kidd JM, Eichler 
EE, White S, Searle S, Vilella AJ, Chen Y, Flicek P, Ma J, Raney B, Suh B,
Burhans R, Herrero J, Haussler D, Faria R, Fernando O, Darré F, Farré D, Gazave
E, Oliva M, Navarro A, Roberto R, Capozzi O, Archidiacono N, Della Valle G,
Purgato S, Rocchi M, Konkel MK, Walker JA, Ullmer B, Batzer MA, Smit AF, Hubley
R, Casola C, Schrider DR, Hahn MW, Quesada V, Puente XS, Ordoñez GR, López-Otín
C, Vinar T, Brejova B, Ratan A, Harris RS, Miller W, Kosiol C, Lawson HA, Taliwal
V, Martins AL, Siepel A, Roychoudhury A, Ma X, Degenhardt J, Bustamante CD,
Gutenkunst RN, Mailund T, Dutheil JY, Hobolth A, Schierup MH, Ryder OA, Yoshinaga
Y, de Jong PJ, Weinstock GM, Rogers J, Mardis ER, Gibbs RA, Wilson RK.

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Center at Washington University, Washington University School of
Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, Saint Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
dlocke@wustl.edu

'Orang-utan' is derived from a Malay term meaning 'man of the forest' and aptly
describes the southeast Asian great apes native to Sumatra and Borneo. The
orang-utan species, Pongo abelii (Sumatran) and Pongo pygmaeus (Bornean), are the
most phylogenetically distant great apes from humans, thereby providing an
informative perspective on hominid evolution. Here we present a Sumatran
orang-utan draft genome assembly and short read sequence data from five Sumatran 
and five Bornean orang-utan genomes. Our analyses reveal that, compared to other 
primates, the orang-utan genome has many unique features. Structural evolution of
the orang-utan genome has proceeded much more slowly than other great apes,
evidenced by fewer rearrangements, less segmental duplication, a lower rate of
gene family turnover and surprisingly quiescent Alu repeats, which have played a 
major role in restructuring other primate genomes. We also describe a primate
polymorphic neocentromere, found in both Pongo species, emphasizing the gradual
evolution of orang-utan genome structure. Orang-utans have extremely low energy
usage for a eutherian mammal, far lower than their hominid relatives. Adding
their genome to the repertoire of sequenced primates illuminates new signals of
positive selection in several pathways including glycolipid metabolism. From the 
population perspective, both Pongo species are deeply diverse; however, Sumatran 
individuals possess greater diversity than their Bornean counterparts, and more
species-specific variation. Our estimate of Bornean/Sumatran speciation time,
400,000 years ago, is more recent than most previous studies and underscores the 
complexity of the orang-utan speciation process. Despite a smaller modern census 
population size, the Sumatran effective population size (N(e)) expanded
exponentially relative to the ancestral N(e) after the split, while Bornean N(e) 
declined over the same period. Overall, the resources and analyses presented here
offer new opportunities in evolutionary genomics, insights into hominid biology, 
and an extensive database of variation for conservation efforts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09687 
PMCID: PMC3060778
PMID: 21270892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):521-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09740.

Melt-induced speed-up of Greenland ice sheet offset by efficient subglacial
drainage.

Sundal AV(1), Shepherd A, Nienow P, Hanna E, Palmer S, Huybrechts P.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Woodhouse Lane, Leeds,
LS2 9JT, UK.

Fluctuations in surface melting are known to affect the speed of glaciers and ice
sheets, but their impact on the Greenland ice sheet in a warming climate remains 
uncertain. Although some studies suggest that greater melting produces greater
ice-sheet acceleration, others have identified a long-term decrease in
Greenland's flow despite increased melting. Here we use satellite observations of
ice motion recorded in a land-terminating sector of southwest Greenland to
investigate the manner in which ice flow develops during years of markedly
different melting. Although peak rates of ice speed-up are positively correlated 
with the degree of melting, mean summer flow rates are not, because glacier
slowdown occurs, on average, when a critical run-off threshold of about
1.4 centimetres a day is exceeded. In contrast to the first half of summer, when 
flow is similar in all years, speed-up during the latter half is 62 ± 16 per cent
less in warmer years. Consequently, in warmer years, the period of fast ice flow 
is three times shorter and, overall, summer ice flow is slower. This behaviour is
at odds with that expected from basal lubrication alone. Instead, it mirrors that
of mountain glaciers, where melt-induced acceleration of flow ceases during years
of high melting once subglacial drainage becomes efficient. A model of ice-sheet 
flow that captures switching between cavity and channel drainage modes is
consistent with the run-off threshold, fast-flow periods, and later-summer speeds
we have observed. Simulations of the Greenland ice-sheet flow under climate
warming scenarios should account for the dynamic evolution of subglacial
drainage; a simple model of basal lubrication alone misses key aspects of the ice
sheet's response to climate warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09740 
PMID: 21270891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):516-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09697.

Hard-tip, soft-spring lithography.

Shim W(1), Braunschweig AB, Liao X, Chai J, Lim JK, Zheng G, Mirkin CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University, 2220
Campus Drive, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

Nanofabrication strategies are becoming increasingly expensive and
equipment-intensive, and consequently less accessible to researchers. As an
alternative, scanning probe lithography has become a popular means of preparing
nanoscale structures, in part owing to its relatively low cost and high
resolution, and a registration accuracy that exceeds most existing technologies. 
However, increasing the throughput of cantilever-based scanning probe systems
while maintaining their resolution and registration advantages has from the
outset been a significant challenge. Even with impressive recent advances in
cantilever array design, such arrays tend to be highly specialized for a given
application, expensive, and often difficult to implement. It is therefore
difficult to imagine commercially viable production methods based on scanning
probe systems that rely on conventional cantilevers. Here we describe a low-cost 
and scalable cantilever-free tip-based nanopatterning method that uses an array
of hard silicon tips mounted onto an elastomeric backing. This method-which we
term hard-tip, soft-spring lithography-overcomes the throughput problems of
cantilever-based scanning probe systems and the resolution limits imposed by the 
use of elastomeric stamps and tips: it is capable of delivering materials or
energy to a surface to create arbitrary patterns of features with sub-50-nm
resolution over centimetre-scale areas. We argue that hard-tip, soft-spring
lithography is a versatile nanolithography strategy that should be widely adopted
by academic and industrial researchers for rapid prototyping applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09697 
PMID: 21270890 


813. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):504-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09717.

A candidate redshift z ≈ 10 galaxy and rapid changes in that population at an age
of 500 Myr.

Bouwens RJ(1), Illingworth GD, Labbe I, Oesch PA, Trenti M, Carollo CM, van
Dokkum PG, Franx M, Stiavelli M, González V, Magee D, Bradley L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz,
California 95064, USA. bouwens@ucolick.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):479-81.

Searches for very-high-redshift galaxies over the past decade have yielded a
large sample of more than 6,000 galaxies existing just 900-2,000 million years
(Myr) after the Big Bang (redshifts 6 > z > 3; ref. 1). The Hubble Ultra Deep
Field (HUDF09) data have yielded the first reliable detections of z ≈ 8 galaxies 
that, together with reports of a γ-ray burst at z ≈ 8.2 (refs 10, 11), constitute
the earliest objects reliably reported to date. Observations of z ≈ 7-8 galaxies 
suggest substantial star formation at z > 9-10 (refs 12, 13). Here we use the
full two-year HUDF09 data to conduct an ultra-deep search for z ≈ 10 galaxies in 
the heart of the reionization epoch, only 500 Myr after the Big Bang. Not only do
we find one possible z ≈ 10 galaxy candidate, but we show that, regardless of
source detections, the star formation rate density is much smaller (∼10%) at this
time than it is just ∼200 Myr later at z ≈ 8. This demonstrates how rapid galaxy 
build-up was at z ≈ 10, as galaxies increased in both luminosity density and
volume density from z ≈ 10 to z ≈ 8. The 100-200 Myr before z ≈ 10 is clearly a
crucial phase in the assembly of the earliest galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09717 
PMID: 21270889 


814. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):498-503. doi: 10.1038/nature09702.

Circadian clocks in human red blood cells.

O'Neill JS(1), Reddy AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge Metabolic
Research Laboratories, Institute of Metabolic Science, University of Cambridge,
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):476-8.

Circadian (∼24 hour) clocks are fundamentally important for coordinated
physiology in organisms as diverse as cyanobacteria and humans. All current
models of the molecular circadian clockwork in eukaryotic cells are based on
transcription-translation feedback loops. Non-transcriptional mechanisms in the
clockwork have been difficult to study in mammalian systems. We circumvented
these problems by developing novel assays using human red blood cells, which have
no nucleus (or DNA) and therefore cannot perform transcription. Our results show 
that transcription is not required for circadian oscillations in humans, and that
non-transcriptional events seem to be sufficient to sustain cellular circadian
rhythms. Using red blood cells, we found that peroxiredoxins, highly conserved
antioxidant proteins, undergo ∼24-hour redox cycles, which persist for many days 
under constant conditions (that is, in the absence of external cues). Moreover,
these rhythms are entrainable (that is, tunable by environmental stimuli) and
temperature-compensated, both key features of circadian rhythms. We anticipate
that our findings will facilitate more sophisticated cellular clock models,
highlighting the interdependency of transcriptional and non-transcriptional
oscillations in potentially all eukaryotic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09702 
PMCID: PMC3040566
PMID: 21270888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):491-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09667.

A critical role for IGF-II in memory consolidation and enhancement.

Chen DY(1), Stern SA, Garcia-Osta A, Saunier-Rebori B, Pollonini G, Bambah-Mukku 
D, Blitzer RD, Alberini CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York
10029, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):474-5.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Mar;12(3):122.

We report that, in the rat, administering insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II, 
also known as IGF2) significantly enhances memory retention and prevents
forgetting. Inhibitory avoidance learning leads to an increase in hippocampal
expression of IGF-II, which requires the transcription factor CCAAT enhancer
binding protein β and is essential for memory consolidation. Furthermore,
injections of recombinant IGF-II into the hippocampus after either training or
memory retrieval significantly enhance memory retention and prevent forgetting.
To be effective, IGF-II needs to be administered within a sensitive period of
memory consolidation. IGF-II-dependent memory enhancement requires IGF-II
receptors, new protein synthesis, the function of activity-regulated
cytoskeletal-associated protein and glycogen-synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). Moreover, 
it correlates with a significant activation of synaptic GSK3β and increased
expression of GluR1 (also known as GRIA1)
α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxasolepropionic acid receptor subunits. In
hippocampal slices, IGF-II promotes IGF-II receptor-dependent, persistent
long-term potentiation after weak synaptic stimulation. Thus, IGF-II may
represent a novel target for cognitive enhancement therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09667 
PMCID: PMC3908455
PMID: 21270887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):483-90. doi: 10.1038/nature09657.

The challenge of new drug discovery for tuberculosis.

Koul A(1), Arnoult E, Lounis N, Guillemont J, Andries K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Antimicrobial Research, Janssen Research and Development,
Johnson & Johnson, Turnhoutseweg 30, B-2340 Beerse, Belgium. akoul@its.jnj.com

Tuberculosis (TB) is more prevalent in the world today than at any other time in 
human history. Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the pathogen responsible for TB, uses 
diverse strategies to survive in a variety of host lesions and to evade immune
surveillance. A key question is how robust are our approaches to discovering new 
TB drugs, and what measures could be taken to reduce the long and protracted
clinical development of new drugs. The emergence of multi-drug-resistant strains 
of M. tuberculosis makes the discovery of new molecular scaffolds a priority, and
the current situation even necessitates the re-engineering and repositioning of
some old drug families to achieve effective control. Whatever the strategy used, 
success will depend largely on our proper understanding of the complex
interactions between the pathogen and its human host. In this review, we discuss 
innovations in TB drug discovery and evolving strategies to bring newer agents
more quickly to patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09657 
PMID: 21270886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):539-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09639. Epub 2011 Jan 19.

Exome sequencing identifies frequent mutation of the SWI/SNF complex gene PBRM1
in renal carcinoma.

Varela I(1), Tarpey P, Raine K, Huang D, Ong CK, Stephens P, Davies H, Jones D,
Lin ML, Teague J, Bignell G, Butler A, Cho J, Dalgliesh GL, Galappaththige D,
Greenman C, Hardy C, Jia M, Latimer C, Lau KW, Marshall J, McLaren S, Menzies A, 
Mudie L, Stebbings L, Largaespada DA, Wessels LF, Richard S, Kahnoski RJ, Anema
J, Tuveson DA, Perez-Mancera PA, Mustonen V, Fischer A, Adams DJ, Rust A, Chan-on
W, Subimerb C, Dykema K, Furge K, Campbell PJ, Teh BT, Stratton MR, Futreal PA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):130.

The genetics of renal cancer is dominated by inactivation of the VHL tumour
suppressor gene in clear cell carcinoma (ccRCC), the commonest histological
subtype. A recent large-scale screen of ∼3,500 genes by PCR-based exon
re-sequencing identified several new cancer genes in ccRCC including UTX (also
known as KDM6A), JARID1C (also known as KDM5C) and SETD2 (ref. 2). These genes
encode enzymes that demethylate (UTX, JARID1C) or methylate (SETD2) key lysine
residues of histone H3. Modification of the methylation state of these lysine
residues of histone H3 regulates chromatin structure and is implicated in
transcriptional control. However, together these mutations are present in fewer
than 15% of ccRCC, suggesting the existence of additional, currently unidentified
cancer genes. Here, we have sequenced the protein coding exome in a series of
primary ccRCC and report the identification of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodelling 
complex gene PBRM1 (ref. 4) as a second major ccRCC cancer gene, with truncating 
mutations in 41% (92/227) of cases. These data further elucidate the somatic
genetic architecture of ccRCC and emphasize the marked contribution of aberrant
chromatin biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09639 
PMCID: PMC3030920
PMID: 21248752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):548-53. doi: 10.1038/nature09666. Epub 2011 Jan 19.

Interferon-γ links ultraviolet radiation to melanomagenesis in mice.

Zaidi MR(1), Davis S, Noonan FP, Graff-Cherry C, Hawley TS, Walker RL, Feigenbaum
L, Fuchs E, Lyakh L, Young HA, Hornyak TJ, Arnheiter H, Trinchieri G, Meltzer PS,
De Fabo EC, Merlino G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cancer Biology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Mar;11(3):154.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Mar;11(3):157.

Cutaneous malignant melanoma is a highly aggressive and frequently chemoresistant
cancer, the incidence of which continues to rise. Epidemiological studies show
that the major aetiological melanoma risk factor is ultraviolet (UV) solar
radiation, with the highest risk associated with intermittent burning doses,
especially during childhood. We have experimentally validated these
epidemiological findings using the hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor
transgenic mouse model, which develops lesions in stages highly reminiscent of
human melanoma with respect to biological, genetic and aetiological criteria, but
only when irradiated as neonatal pups with UVB, not UVA. However, the mechanisms 
underlying UVB-initiated, neonatal-specific melanomagenesis remain largely
unknown. Here we introduce a mouse model permitting fluorescence-aided melanocyte
imaging and isolation following in vivo UV irradiation. We use expression
profiling to show that activated neonatal skin melanocytes isolated following a
melanomagenic UVB dose bear a distinct, persistent interferon response signature,
including genes associated with immunoevasion. UVB-induced melanocyte activation,
characterized by aberrant growth and migration, was abolished by
antibody-mediated systemic blockade of interferon-γ (IFN-γ), but not type-I
interferons. IFN-γ was produced by macrophages recruited to neonatal skin by
UVB-induced ligands to the chemokine receptor Ccr2. Admixed recruited skin
macrophages enhanced transplanted melanoma growth by inhibiting apoptosis;
notably, IFN-γ blockade abolished macrophage-enhanced melanoma growth and
survival. IFN-γ-producing macrophages were also identified in 70% of human
melanomas examined. Our data reveal an unanticipated role for IFN-γ in promoting 
melanocytic cell survival/immunoevasion, identifying a novel candidate
therapeutic target for a subset of melanoma patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09666 
PMCID: PMC3140101
PMID: 21248750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):564-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09638. Epub 2011 Jan 16.

Structure of human O-GlcNAc transferase and its complex with a peptide substrate.

Lazarus MB(1), Nam Y, Jiang J, Sliz P, Walker S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

The essential mammalian enzyme O-linked β-N-acetylglucosamine transferase
(O-GlcNAc transferase, here OGT) couples metabolic status to the regulation of a 
wide variety of cellular signalling pathways by acting as a nutrient sensor. OGT 
catalyses the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine from UDP-N-acetylglucosamine
(UDP-GlcNAc) to serines and threonines of cytoplasmic, nuclear and mitochondrial 
proteins, including numerous transcription factors, tumour suppressors, kinases, 
phosphatases and histone-modifying proteins. Aberrant glycosylation by OGT has
been linked to insulin resistance, diabetic complications, cancer and
neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's. Despite the importance of OGT, 
the details of how it recognizes and glycosylates its protein substrates are
largely unknown. We report here two crystal structures of human OGT, as a binary 
complex with UDP (2.8 Å resolution) and as a ternary complex with UDP and a
peptide substrate (1.95 Å). The structures provide clues to the enzyme mechanism,
show how OGT recognizes target peptide sequences, and reveal the fold of the
unique domain between the two halves of the catalytic region. This information
will accelerate the rational design of biological experiments to investigate
OGT's functions; it will also help the design of inhibitors for use as cellular
probes and help to assess its potential as a therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09638 
PMCID: PMC3064491
PMID: 21240259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):512-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09719. Epub 2011 Jan 12.

Broadband waveguide quantum memory for entangled photons.

Saglamyurek E(1), Sinclair N, Jin J, Slater JA, Oblak D, Bussières F, George M,
Ricken R, Sohler W, Tittel W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Information Science, and Department of Physics and
Astronomy, University of Calgary, 2500 University Drive NW, Calgary, Alberta T2N 
1N4, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):475-6.

The reversible transfer of quantum states of light into and out of matter
constitutes an important building block for future applications of quantum
communication: it will allow the synchronization of quantum information, and the 
construction of quantum repeaters and quantum networks. Much effort has been
devoted to the development of such quantum memories, the key property of which is
the preservation of entanglement during storage. Here we report the reversible
transfer of photon-photon entanglement into entanglement between a photon and a
collective atomic excitation in a solid-state device. Towards this end, we employ
a thulium-doped lithium niobate waveguide in conjunction with a photon-echo
quantum memory protocol, and increase the spectral acceptance from the current
maximum of 100 megahertz to 5 gigahertz. We assess the entanglement-preserving
nature of our storage device through Bell inequality violations and by comparing 
the amount of entanglement contained in the detected photon pairs before and
after the reversible transfer. These measurements show, within statistical error,
a perfect mapping process. Our broadband quantum memory complements the family of
robust, integrated lithium niobate devices. It simplifies frequency-matching of
light with matter interfaces in advanced applications of quantum communication,
bringing fully quantum-enabled networks a step closer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09719 
PMID: 21228775 


821. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):508-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09662. Epub 2011 Jan 12.

Quantum storage of photonic entanglement in a crystal.

Clausen C(1), Usmani I, Bussières F, Sangouard N, Afzelius M, de Riedmatten H,
Gisin N.

Author information: 
(1)Group of Applied Physics, University of Geneva, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):475-6.

Entanglement is the fundamental characteristic of quantum physics-much
experimental effort is devoted to harnessing it between various physical systems.
In particular, entanglement between light and material systems is interesting
owing to their anticipated respective roles as 'flying' and stationary qubits in 
quantum information technologies (such as quantum repeaters and quantum
networks). Here we report the demonstration of entanglement between a photon at a
telecommunication wavelength (1,338 nm) and a single collective atomic excitation
stored in a crystal. One photon from an energy-time entangled pair is mapped onto
the crystal and then released into a well-defined spatial mode after a
predetermined storage time. The other (telecommunication wavelength) photon is
sent directly through a 50-metre fibre link to an analyser. Successful storage of
entanglement in the crystal is proved by a violation of the
Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality by almost three standard deviations (S =
2.64 ± 0.23). These results represent an important step towards quantum
communication technologies based on solid-state devices. In particular, our
resources pave the way for building multiplexed quantum repeaters for
long-distance quantum networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09662 
PMID: 21228774 


822. Nature. 2011 Jan 27;469(7331):525-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09631. Epub 2011 Jan 2.

Ependymal cells of chordate larvae are stem-like cells that form the adult
nervous system.

Horie T(1), Shinki R, Ogura Y, Kusakabe TG, Satoh N, Sasakura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Shimoda Marine Research Center, University of Tsukuba, Shimoda, Shizuoka
415-0025, Japan. horie@kurofune.shimoda.tsukuba.ac.jp

In ascidian tunicates, the metamorphic transition from larva to adult is
accompanied by dynamic changes in the body plan. For instance, the central
nervous system (CNS) is subjected to extensive rearrangement because its
regulating larval organs are lost and new adult organs are created. To understand
how the adult CNS is reconstructed, we traced the fate of larval CNS cells during
ascidian metamorphosis by using transgenic animals and imaging technologies with 
photoconvertible fluorescent proteins. Here we show that most parts of the
ascidian larval CNS, except for the tail nerve cord, are maintained during
metamorphosis and recruited to form the adult CNS. We also show that most of the 
larval neurons disappear and only a subset of cholinergic motor neurons and
glutamatergic neurons are retained. Finally, we demonstrate that ependymal cells 
of the larval CNS contribute to the construction of the adult CNS and that some
differentiate into neurons in the adult CNS. An unexpected role of ependymal
cells highlighted by this study is that they serve as neural stem-like cells to
reconstruct the adult nervous network during chordate metamorphosis.
Consequently, the plasticity of non-neuronal ependymal cells and neuronal cells
in chordates should be re-examined by future studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09631 
PMID: 21196932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):428-31. doi: 10.1038/nature09647.

X-ray structures of general anaesthetics bound to a pentameric ligand-gated ion
channel.

Nury H(1), Van Renterghem C, Weng Y, Tran A, Baaden M, Dufresne V, Changeux JP,
Sonner JM, Delarue M, Corringer PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Groupe Récepteurs-Canaux, F-75015 Paris, France.

General anaesthetics have enjoyed long and widespread use but their molecular
mechanism of action remains poorly understood. There is good evidence that their 
principal targets are pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) such as
inhibitory GABA(A) (γ-aminobutyric acid) receptors and excitatory nicotinic
acetylcholine receptors, which are respectively potentiated and inhibited by
general anaesthetics. The bacterial homologue from Gloeobacter violaceus (GLIC), 
whose X-ray structure was recently solved, is also sensitive to clinical
concentrations of general anaesthetics. Here we describe the crystal structures
of the complexes propofol/GLIC and desflurane/GLIC. These reveal a common
general-anaesthetic binding site, which pre-exists in the apo-structure in the
upper part of the transmembrane domain of each protomer. Both molecules establish
van der Waals interactions with the protein; propofol binds at the entrance of
the cavity whereas the smaller, more flexible, desflurane binds deeper inside.
Mutations of some amino acids lining the binding site profoundly alter the ionic 
response of GLIC to protons, and affect its general-anaesthetic pharmacology.
Molecular dynamics simulations, performed on the wild type (WT) and two GLIC
mutants, highlight differences in mobility of propofol in its binding site and
help to explain these effects. These data provide a novel structural framework
for the design of general anaesthetics and of allosteric modulators of brain
pLGICs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09647 
PMID: 21248852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):424-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09640.

Atomic-level modelling of the HIV capsid.

Pornillos O(1), Ganser-Pornillos BK, Yeager M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, University of
Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

The mature capsids of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and other
retroviruses are fullerene shells, composed of the viral CA protein, that enclose
the viral genome and facilitate its delivery into new host cells. Retroviral CA
proteins contain independently folded amino (N)- and carboxy (C)-terminal domains
(NTD and CTD) that are connected by a flexible linker. The NTD forms either
hexameric or pentameric rings, whereas the CTD forms symmetric homodimers that
connect the rings into a hexagonal lattice. We previously used a disulphide
crosslinking strategy to enable isolation and crystallization of soluble HIV-1 CA
hexamers. Here we use the same approach to solve the X-ray structure of the HIV-1
CA pentamer at 2.5 Å resolution. Two mutant CA proteins with engineered
disulphides at different positions (P17C/T19C and N21C/A22C) converged onto the
same quaternary structure, indicating that the disulphide-crosslinked proteins
recapitulate the structure of the native pentamer. Assembly of the
quasi-equivalent hexamers and pentamers requires remarkably subtle rearrangements
in subunit interactions, and appears to be controlled by an electrostatic switch 
that favours hexamers over pentamers. This study completes the gallery of
substructures describing the components of the HIV-1 capsid and enables
atomic-level modelling of the complete capsid. Rigid-body rotations around two
assembly interfaces appear sufficient to generate the full range of continuously 
varying lattice curvature in the fullerene cone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09640 
PMCID: PMC3075868
PMID: 21248851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):419-23. doi: 10.1038/nature09674.

Reduction of disulphide bonds unmasks potent antimicrobial activity of human
β-defensin 1.

Schroeder BO(1), Wu Z, Nuding S, Groscurth S, Marcinowski M, Beisner J, Buchner
J, Schaller M, Stange EF, Wehkamp J.

Author information: 
(1)Dr. Margarete Fischer-Bosch-Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, 70376
Stuttgart, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):309-10.

Human epithelia are permanently challenged by bacteria and fungi, including
commensal and pathogenic microbiota. In the gut, the fraction of strict anaerobes
increases from proximal to distal, reaching 99% of bacterial species in the
colon. At colonic mucosa, oxygen partial pressure is below 25% of airborne oxygen
content, moreover microbial metabolism causes reduction to a low redox potential 
of -200 mV to -300 mV in the colon. Defensins, characterized by three
intramolecular disulphide-bridges, are key effector molecules of innate immunity 
that protect the host from infectious microbes and shape the composition of
microbiota at mucosal surfaces. Human β-defensin 1 (hBD-1) is one of the most
prominent peptides of its class but despite ubiquitous expression by all human
epithelia, comparison with other defensins suggested only minor antibiotic
killing activity. Whereas much is known about the activity of antimicrobial
peptides in aerobic environments, data about reducing environments are limited.
Herein we show that after reduction of disulphide-bridges hBD-1 becomes a potent 
antimicrobial peptide against the opportunistic pathogenic fungus Candida
albicans and against anaerobic, Gram-positive commensals of Bifidobacterium and
Lactobacillus species. Reduced hBD-1 differs structurally from oxidized hBD-1 and
free cysteines in the carboxy terminus seem important for the bactericidal
effect. In vitro, the thioredoxin (TRX) system is able to reduce hBD-1 and TRX
co-localizes with reduced hBD-1 in human epithelia. Hence our study indicates
that reduced hBD-1 shields the healthy epithelium against colonisation by
commensal bacteria and opportunistic fungi. Accordingly, an intimate interplay
between redox-regulation and innate immune defence seems crucial for an effective
barrier protecting human epithelia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09674 
PMID: 21248850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):393-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09668.

Primitive agriculture in a social amoeba.

Brock DA(1), Douglas TE, Queller DC, Strassmann JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Rice University, 6100 Main
Street, Houston, Texas 77005, USA. dbrock@rice.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):308-9.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Mar;9(3):150-1.

Agriculture has been a large part of the ecological success of humans. A handful 
of animals, notably the fungus-growing ants, termites and ambrosia beetles, have 
advanced agriculture that involves dispersal and seeding of food propagules,
cultivation of the crop and sustainable harvesting. More primitive examples,
which could be called husbandry because they involve fewer adaptations, include
marine snails farming intertidal fungi and damselfish farming algae. Recent work 
has shown that microorganisms are surprisingly like animals in having
sophisticated behaviours such as cooperation, communication and recognition, as
well as many kinds of symbiosis. Here we show that the social amoeba
Dictyostelium discoideum has a primitive farming symbiosis that includes
dispersal and prudent harvesting of the crop. About one-third of wild-collected
clones engage in husbandry of bacteria. Instead of consuming all bacteria in
their patch, they stop feeding early and incorporate bacteria into their fruiting
bodies. They then carry bacteria during spore dispersal and can seed a new food
crop, which is a major advantage if edible bacteria are lacking at the new site. 
However, if they arrive at sites already containing appropriate bacteria, the
costs of early feeding cessation are not compensated for, which may account for
the dichotomous nature of this farming symbiosis. The striking convergent
evolution between bacterial husbandry in social amoebas and fungus farming in
social insects makes sense because multigenerational benefits of farming go to
already established kin groups.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09668 
PMID: 21248849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):385-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09698.

Probing the electromagnetic field of a 15-nanometre hotspot by single molecule
imaging.

Cang H(1), Labno A, Lu C, Yin X, Liu M, Gladden C, Liu Y, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Materials Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):307-8.

When light illuminates a rough metallic surface, hotspots can appear, where the
light is concentrated on the nanometre scale, producing an intense
electromagnetic field. This phenomenon, called the surface enhancement effect,
has a broad range of potential applications, such as the detection of weak
chemical signals. Hotspots are believed to be associated with localized
electromagnetic modes, caused by the randomness of the surface texture. Probing
the electromagnetic field of the hotspots would offer much insight towards
uncovering the mechanism generating the enhancement; however, it requires a
spatial resolution of 1-2 nm, which has been a long-standing challenge in optics.
The resolution of an optical microscope is limited to about half the wavelength
of the incident light, approximately 200-300 nm. Although current
state-of-the-art techniques, including near-field scanning optical microscopy,
electron energy-loss spectroscopy, cathode luminescence imaging and two-photon
photoemission imaging have subwavelength resolution, they either introduce a
non-negligible amount of perturbation, complicating interpretation of the data,
or operate only in a vacuum. As a result, after more than 30 years since the
discovery of the surface enhancement effect, how the local field is distributed
remains unknown. Here we present a technique that uses Brownian motion of single 
molecules to probe the local field. It enables two-dimensional imaging of the
fluorescence enhancement profile of single hotspots on the surfaces of aluminium 
thin films and silver nanoparticle clusters, with accuracy down to 1.2 nm. Strong
fluorescence enhancements, up to 54 and 136 times respectively, are observed in
those two systems. This strong enhancement indicates that the local field, which 
decays exponentially from the peak of a hotspot, dominates the fluorescence
enhancement profile.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09698 
PMID: 21248848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):381-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09713.

Directed self-assembly of a colloidal kagome lattice.

Chen Q(1), Bae SC, Granick S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

A challenging goal in materials chemistry and physics is spontaneously to form
intended superstructures from designed building blocks. In fields such as crystal
engineering and the design of porous materials, this typically involves building 
blocks of organic molecules, sometimes operating together with metallic ions or
clusters. The translation of such ideas to nanoparticles and colloidal-sized
building blocks would potentially open doors to new materials and new properties,
but the pathways to achieve this goal are still undetermined. Here we show how
colloidal spheres can be induced to self-assemble into a complex predetermined
colloidal crystal-in this case a colloidal kagome lattice-through decoration of
their surfaces with a simple pattern of hydrophobic domains. The building blocks 
are simple micrometre-sized spheres with interactions (electrostatic repulsion in
the middle, hydrophobic attraction at the poles, which we call 'triblock Janus') 
that are also simple, but the self-assembly of the spheres into an open kagome
structure contrasts with previously known close-packed periodic arrangements of
spheres. This open network is of interest for several theoretical reasons. With a
view to possible enhanced functionality, the resulting lattice structure
possesses two families of pores, one that is hydrophobic on the rims of the pores
and another that is hydrophilic. This strategy of 'convergent' self-assembly from
easily fabricated colloidal building blocks encodes the target supracolloidal
architecture, not in localized attractive spots but instead in large redundantly 
attractive regions, and can be extended to form other supracolloidal networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09713 
PMID: 21248847 


829. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):377-80. doi: 10.1038/nature09695.

Supermassive black holes do not correlate with dark matter haloes of galaxies.

Kormendy J(1), Bender R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Texas at Austin, 1 University Station, 
Austin, Texas 78712-0259, USA. kormendy@astro.as.utexas.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):305-6.

Supermassive black holes have been detected in all galaxies that contain bulge
components when the galaxies observed were close enough that the searches were
feasible. Together with the observation that bigger black holes live in bigger
bulges, this has led to the belief that black-hole growth and bulge formation
regulate each other. That is, black holes and bulges coevolve. Therefore, reports
of a similar correlation between black holes and the dark matter haloes in which 
visible galaxies are embedded have profound implications. Dark matter is likely
to be non-baryonic, so these reports suggest that unknown, exotic physics
controls black-hole growth. Here we show, in part on the basis of recent
measurements of bulgeless galaxies, that there is almost no correlation between
dark matter and parameters that measure black holes unless the galaxy also
contains a bulge. We conclude that black holes do not correlate directly with
dark matter. They do not correlate with galaxy disks, either. Therefore, black
holes coevolve only with bulges. This simplifies the puzzle of their coevolution 
by focusing attention on purely baryonic processes in the galaxy mergers that
make bulges.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09695 
PMID: 21248846 


830. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):374-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09694.

Supermassive black holes do not correlate with galaxy disks or pseudobulges.

Kormendy J(1), Bender R, Cornell ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Texas at Austin, 1 University Station, 
Austin, Texas 78712-0259, USA. kormendy@astro.as.utexas.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):305-6.

The masses of supermassive black holes are known to correlate with the properties
of the bulge components of their host galaxies. In contrast, they seem not to
correlate with galaxy disks. Disk-grown 'pseudobulges' are intermediate in
properties between bulges and disks; it has been unclear whether they do or do
not correlate with black holes in the same way that bulges do. At stake in this
issue are conclusions about which parts of galaxies coevolve with black holes,
possibly by being regulated by energy feedback from black holes. Here we report
pseudobulge classifications for galaxies with dynamically detected black holes
and combine them with recent measurements of velocity dispersions in the biggest 
bulgeless galaxies. These data confirm that black holes do not correlate with
disks and show that they correlate little or not at all with pseudobulges. We
suggest that there are two different modes of black-hole feeding. Black holes in 
bulges grow rapidly to high masses when mergers drive gas infall that feeds
quasar-like events. In contrast, small black holes in bulgeless galaxies and in
galaxies with pseudobulges grow as low-level Seyfert galaxies. Growth of the
former is driven by global processes, so the biggest black holes coevolve with
bulges, but growth of the latter is driven locally and stochastically, and they
do not coevolve with disks and pseudobulges.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09694 
PMID: 21248845 


831. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):368-73. doi: 10.1038/nature09652.

Nascent transcript sequencing visualizes transcription at nucleotide resolution.

Churchman LS(1), Weissman JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2011 Mar;12(3):138-9.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Mar;12(3):152.

Recent studies of transcription have revealed a level of complexity not
previously appreciated even a few years ago, both in the intricate use of
post-initiation control and the mass production of rapidly degraded transcripts. 
Dissection of these pathways requires strategies for precisely following
transcripts as they are being produced. Here we present an approach (native
elongating transcript sequencing, NET-seq), based on deep sequencing of 3' ends
of nascent transcripts associated with RNA polymerase, to monitor transcription
at nucleotide resolution. Application of NET-seq in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
reveals that although promoters are generally capable of divergent transcription,
the Rpd3S deacetylation complex enforces strong directionality to most promoters 
by suppressing antisense transcript initiation. Our studies also reveal pervasive
polymerase pausing and backtracking throughout the body of transcripts. Average
pause density shows prominent peaks at each of the first four nucleosomes, with
the peak location occurring in good agreement with in vitro biophysical
measurements. Thus, nucleosome-induced pausing represents a major barrier to
transcriptional elongation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09652 
PMCID: PMC3880149
PMID: 21248844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):362-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09733.

Evolution of human BCR-ABL1 lymphoblastic leukaemia-initiating cells.

Notta F(1), Mullighan CG, Wang JC, Poeppl A, Doulatov S, Phillips LA, Ma J,
Minden MD, Downing JR, Dick JE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Stem Cell and Developmental Biology, Campbell Family Institute for
Cancer Research/Ontario Cancer Institute, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):254.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Mar 4;8(3):242-4.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2011 Mar;11(3):153.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2011 Mar;12(3):154.

Many tumours are composed of genetically diverse cells; however, little is known 
about how diversity evolves or the impact that diversity has on functional
properties. Here, using xenografting and DNA copy number alteration (CNA)
profiling of human BCR-ABL1 lymphoblastic leukaemia, we demonstrate that genetic 
diversity occurs in functionally defined leukaemia-initiating cells and that many
diagnostic patient samples contain multiple genetically distinct
leukaemia-initiating cell subclones. Reconstructing the subclonal genetic
ancestry of several samples by CNA profiling demonstrated a branching
multi-clonal evolution model of leukaemogenesis, rather than linear succession.
For some patient samples, the predominant diagnostic clone repopulated
xenografts, whereas in others it was outcompeted by minor subclones.
Reconstitution with the predominant diagnosis clone was associated with more
aggressive growth properties in xenografts, deletion of CDKN2A and CDKN2B, and a 
trend towards poorer patient outcome. Our findings link clonal diversity with
leukaemia-initiating-cell function and underscore the importance of developing
therapies that eradicate all intratumoral subclones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09733 
PMID: 21248843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):351-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09659.

Systemic risk in banking ecosystems.

Haldane AG(1), May RM.

Author information: 
(1)Bank of England, Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8AH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):302-3.
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):166.

In the run-up to the recent financial crisis, an increasingly elaborate set of
financial instruments emerged, intended to optimize returns to individual
institutions with seemingly minimal risk. Essentially no attention was given to
their possible effects on the stability of the system as a whole. Drawing
analogies with the dynamics of ecological food webs and with networks within
which infectious diseases spread, we explore the interplay between complexity and
stability in deliberately simplified models of financial networks. We suggest
some policy lessons that can be drawn from such models, with the explicit aim of 
minimizing systemic risk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09659 
PMID: 21248842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):343-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09784.

The Polycomb complex PRC2 and its mark in life.

Margueron R(1), Reinberg D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, 26 Rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France.

Polycomb group proteins maintain the gene-expression pattern of different cells
that is set during early development by regulating chromatin structure. In
mammals, two main Polycomb group complexes exist - Polycomb repressive complex 1 
(PRC1) and 2 (PRC2). PRC1 compacts chromatin and catalyses the monoubiquitylation
of histone H2A. PRC2 also contributes to chromatin compaction, and catalyses the 
methylation of histone H3 at lysine 27. PRC2 is involved in various biological
processes, including differentiation, maintaining cell identity and
proliferation, and stem-cell plasticity. Recent studies of PRC2 have expanded our
perspectives on its function and regulation, and uncovered a role for non-coding 
RNA in the recruitment of PRC2 to target genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09784 
PMCID: PMC3760771
PMID: 21248841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):336-42. doi: 10.1038/nature09783.

Pervasive roles of microRNAs in cardiovascular biology.

Small EM(1), Olson EN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-9148, USA.

First recognized as regulators of development in worms and fruitflies, microRNAs 
are emerging as pivotal modulators of mammalian cardiovascular development and
disease. Individual microRNAs modulate the expression of collections of messenger
RNA targets that often have related functions, thereby governing complex
biological processes. The wideranging functions of microRNAs in the
cardiovascular system have provided new perspectives on disease mechanisms and
have revealed intriguing therapeutic targets, as well as diagnostics, for a
variety of cardiovascular disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09783 
PMCID: PMC3073349
PMID: 21248840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):323-35. doi: 10.1038/nature09782.

Autophagy in immunity and inflammation.

Levine B(1), Mizushima N, Virgin HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-9113, USA.
beth.levine@utsouthwestern.edu

Autophagy is an essential, homeostatic process by which cells break down their
own components. Perhaps the most primordial function of this lysosomal
degradation pathway is adaptation to nutrient deprivation. However, in complex
multicellular organisms, the core molecular machinery of autophagy - the
'autophagy proteins' - orchestrates diverse aspects of cellular and organismal
responses to other dangerous stimuli such as infection. Recent developments
reveal a crucial role for the autophagy pathway and proteins in immunity and
inflammation. They balance the beneficial and detrimental effects of immunity and
inflammation, and thereby may protect against infectious, autoimmune and
inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09782 
PMCID: PMC3131688
PMID: 21248839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):314-22. doi: 10.1038/nature09781.

Cells of origin in cancer.

Visvader JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cells and Cancer Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical
Research, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia. visvader@wehi.edu.au

Both solid tumours and leukaemias show considerable histological and functional
heterogeneity. It is widely accepted that genetic lesions have a major role in
determining tumour phenotype, but evidence is also accumulating that cancers of
distinct subtypes within an organ may derive from different 'cells of origin'.
These cells acquire the first genetic hit or hits that culminate in the
initiation of cancer. The identification of these crucial target cell populations
may allow earlier detection of malignancies and better prediction of tumour
behaviour, and ultimately may lead to preventive therapies for individuals at
high risk of developing cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09781 
PMID: 21248838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):411-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09641. Epub 2011 Jan 9.

Identification of two genes causing reinforcement in the Texas wildflower Phlox
drummondii.

Hopkins R(1), Rausher MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Box 90338, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina
27708, USA.

Species formation generates biological diversity and occurs when traits evolve
that prevent gene flow between populations. Discerning the number and
distribution of genes underlying these traits and, in a few cases, identifying
the genes involved, has greatly enhanced our understanding over the past 15 years
of species formation (reviewed by Noor and Feder and Wolf et al.). However, this 
work has almost exclusively focused on traits that restrict gene flow between
populations that have evolved as a by-product of genetic divergence between
geographically isolated populations. By contrast, little is known about the
characteristics of genes associated with reinforcement, the process by which
natural selection directly favours restricted gene flow during the formation of
species. Here we identify changes in two genes that appear to cause a flower
colour change in Phlox drummondii, which previous work has shown contributes to
reinforcement. Both changes involve cis-regulatory mutations to genes in the
anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway (ABP). Because one change is recessive whereas
the other is dominant, hybrid offspring produce an intermediate flower colour
that is visited less by pollinators, and is presumably maladaptive. Thus genetic 
change selected to increase prezygotic isolation also appears to result in
increased postzygotic isolation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09641 
PMID: 21217687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):389-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09718. Epub 2011 Jan 5.

Grains and grain boundaries in single-layer graphene atomic patchwork quilts.

Huang PY(1), Ruiz-Vargas CS, van der Zande AM, Whitney WS, Levendorf MP, Kevek
JW, Garg S, Alden JS, Hustedt CJ, Zhu Y, Park J, McEuen PL, Muller DA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Applied and Engineering Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York 14853, USA.

The properties of polycrystalline materials are often dominated by the size of
their grains and by the atomic structure of their grain boundaries. These effects
should be especially pronounced in two-dimensional materials, where even a line
defect can divide and disrupt a crystal. These issues take on practical
significance in graphene, which is a hexagonal, two-dimensional crystal of carbon
atoms. Single-atom-thick graphene sheets can now be produced by chemical vapour
deposition on scales of up to metres, making their polycrystallinity almost
unavoidable. Theoretically, graphene grain boundaries are predicted to have
distinct electronic, magnetic, chemical and mechanical properties that strongly
depend on their atomic arrangement. Yet because of the five-order-of-magnitude
size difference between grains and the atoms at grain boundaries, few experiments
have fully explored the graphene grain structure. Here we use a combination of
old and new transmission electron microscopy techniques to bridge these length
scales. Using atomic-resolution imaging, we determine the location and identity
of every atom at a grain boundary and find that different grains stitch together 
predominantly through pentagon-heptagon pairs. Rather than individually imaging
the several billion atoms in each grain, we use diffraction-filtered imaging to
rapidly map the location, orientation and shape of several hundred grains and
boundaries, where only a handful have been previously reported. The resulting
images reveal an unexpectedly small and intricate patchwork of grains connected
by tilt boundaries. By correlating grain imaging with scanning probe and
transport measurements, we show that these grain boundaries severely weaken the
mechanical strength of graphene membranes but do not as drastically alter their
electrical properties. These techniques open a new window for studies on the
structure, properties and control of grains and grain boundaries in graphene and 
other two-dimensional materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09718 
PMID: 21209615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):397-401. doi: 10.1038/nature09633. Epub 2010 Dec
22.

Preplay of future place cell sequences by hippocampal cellular assemblies.

Dragoi G(1), Tonegawa S.

Author information: 
(1)The Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural
Circuit Genetics, Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. gdragoi@mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):303-4.

During spatial exploration, hippocampal neurons show a sequential firing pattern 
in which individual neurons fire specifically at particular locations along the
animal's trajectory (place cells). According to the dominant model of hippocampal
cell assembly activity, place cell firing order is established for the first time
during exploration, to encode the spatial experience, and is subsequently
replayed during rest or slow-wave sleep for consolidation of the encoded
experience. Here we report that temporal sequences of firing of place cells
expressed during a novel spatial experience occurred on a significant number of
occasions during the resting or sleeping period preceding the experience. This
phenomenon, which is called preplay, occurred in disjunction with sequences of
replay of a familiar experience. These results suggest that internal neuronal
dynamics during resting or sleep organize hippocampal cellular assemblies into
temporal sequences that contribute to the encoding of a related novel experience 
occurring in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09633 
PMCID: PMC3104398
PMID: 21179088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):407-10. doi: 10.1038/nature09711. Epub 2010 Dec 19.

Spatially asymmetric reorganization of inhibition establishes a motion-sensitive 
circuit.

Yonehara K(1), Balint K, Noda M, Nagel G, Bamberg E, Roska B.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Circuit Laboratories, Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical
Research, 4058 Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Feb;12(2):64.

Spatial asymmetries in neural connectivity have an important role in creating
basic building blocks of neuronal processing. A key circuit module of
directionally selective (DS) retinal ganglion cells is a spatially asymmetric
inhibitory input from starburst amacrine cells. It is not known how and when this
circuit asymmetry is established during development. Here we photostimulate mouse
starburst cells targeted with channelrhodopsin-2 (refs 6-8) while recording from 
a single genetically labelled type of DS cell. We follow the spatial distribution
of synaptic strengths between starburst and DS cells during early postnatal
development before these neurons can respond to a physiological light stimulus,
and confirm connectivity by monosynaptically restricted trans-synaptic rabies
viral tracing. We show that asymmetry develops rapidly over a 2-day period
through an intermediate state in which random or symmetric synaptic connections
have been established. The development of asymmetry involves the spatially
selective reorganization of inhibitory synaptic inputs. Intriguingly, the spatial
distribution of excitatory synaptic inputs from starburst cells is significantly 
more symmetric than that of the inhibitory inputs at the end of this
developmental period. Our work demonstrates a rapid developmental switch from a
symmetric to asymmetric input distribution for inhibition in the neural circuit
of a principal cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09711 
PMID: 21170022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):356-61. doi: 10.1038/nature09650. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

Genetic variegation of clonal architecture and propagating cells in leukaemia.

Anderson K(1), Lutz C, van Delft FW, Bateman CM, Guo Y, Colman SM, Kempski H,
Moorman AV, Titley I, Swansbury J, Kearney L, Enver T, Greaves M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Haemato-Oncology, The Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton SM2 5NG,
UK.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Mar 4;8(3):242-4.

Little is known of the genetic architecture of cancer at the subclonal and
single-cell level or in the cells responsible for cancer clone maintenance and
propagation. Here we have examined this issue in childhood acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia in which the ETV6-RUNX1 gene fusion is an early or initiating genetic
lesion followed by a modest number of recurrent or 'driver' copy number
alterations. By multiplexing fluorescence in situ hybridization probes for these 
mutations, up to eight genetic abnormalities can be detected in single cells, a
genetic signature of subclones identified and a composite picture of subclonal
architecture and putative ancestral trees assembled. Subclones in acute
lymphoblastic leukaemia have variegated genetics and complex, nonlinear or
branching evolutionary histories. Copy number alterations are independently and
reiteratively acquired in subclones of individual patients, and in no
preferential order. Clonal architecture is dynamic and is subject to change in
the lead-up to a diagnosis and in relapse. Leukaemia propagating cells, assayed
by serial transplantation in NOD/SCID IL2Rγ(null) mice, are also genetically
variegated, mirroring subclonal patterns, and vary in competitive regenerative
capacity in vivo. These data have implications for cancer genomics and for the
targeted therapy of cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09650 
PMID: 21160474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):402-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09600. Epub 2010 Dec 5.

Development of asymmetric inhibition underlying direction selectivity in the
retina.

Wei W(1), Hamby AM, Zhou K, Feller MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-3200, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Feb;12(2):64.

Establishing precise synaptic connections is crucial to the development of
functional neural circuits. The direction-selective circuit in the retina relies 
upon highly selective wiring of inhibitory inputs from starburst amacrine cells
(SACs) onto four subtypes of ON-OFF direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs),
each preferring motion in one of four cardinal directions. It has been reported
in rabbit that the SACs on the 'null' sides of DSGCs form functional GABA
(γ-aminobutyric acid)-mediated synapses, whereas those on the preferred sides do 
not. However, it is not known how the asymmetric wiring between SACs and DSGCs is
established during development. Here we report that in transgenic mice with
cell-type-specific labelling, the synaptic connections from SACs to DSGCs were of
equal strength during the first postnatal week, regardless of whether the SAC was
located on the preferred or null side of the DSGC. However, by the end of the
second postnatal week, the strength of the synapses made from SACs on the null
side of a DSGC significantly increased whereas those made from SACs located on
the preferred side remained constant. Blocking retinal activity by intraocular
injections of muscimol or gabazine during this period did not alter the
development of direction selectivity. Hence, the asymmetric inhibition between
the SACs and DSGCs is achieved by a developmental program that specifically
strengthens the GABA-mediated inputs from SACs located on the null side, in a
manner not dependent on neural activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09600 
PMCID: PMC3974627
PMID: 21131947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2011 Jan 20;469(7330):415-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09637. Epub 2010 Nov 28.

Paneth cells constitute the niche for Lgr5 stem cells in intestinal crypts.

Sato T(1), van Es JH, Snippert HJ, Stange DE, Vries RG, van den Born M, Barker N,
Shroyer NF, van de Wetering M, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute, KNAW and University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584CT Utrecht, the Netherlands.

Homeostasis of self-renewing small intestinal crypts results from neutral
competition between Lgr5 stem cells, which are small cycling cells located at
crypt bottoms. Lgr5 stem cells are interspersed between terminally differentiated
Paneth cells that are known to produce bactericidal products such as lysozyme and
cryptdins/defensins. Single Lgr5-expressing stem cells can be cultured to form
long-lived, self-organizing crypt-villus organoids in the absence of
non-epithelial niche cells. Here we find a close physical association of Lgr5
stem cells with Paneth cells in mice, both in vivo and in vitro. CD24(+) Paneth
cells express EGF, TGF-α, Wnt3 and the Notch ligand Dll4, all essential signals
for stem-cell maintenance in culture. Co-culturing of sorted stem cells with
Paneth cells markedly improves organoid formation. This Paneth cell requirement
can be substituted by a pulse of exogenous Wnt. Genetic removal of Paneth cells
in vivo results in the concomitant loss of Lgr5 stem cells. In colon crypts,
CD24(+) cells residing between Lgr5 stem cells may represent the Paneth cell
equivalents. We conclude that Lgr5 stem cells compete for essential niche signals
provided by a specialized daughter cell, the Paneth cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09637 
PMCID: PMC3547360
PMID: 21113151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09746.

The structural basis for agonist and partial agonist action on a β(1)-adrenergic 
receptor.

Warne T(1), Moukhametzianov R, Baker JG, Nehmé R, Edwards PC, Leslie AG,
Schertler GF, Tate CG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):172-3.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Feb;10(2):97.

β-adrenergic receptors (βARs) are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that
activate intracellular G proteins upon binding catecholamine agonist ligands such
as adrenaline and noradrenaline. Synthetic ligands have been developed that
either activate or inhibit βARs for the treatment of asthma, hypertension or
cardiac dysfunction. These ligands are classified as either full agonists,
partial agonists or antagonists, depending on whether the cellular response is
similar to that of the native ligand, reduced or inhibited, respectively.
However, the structural basis for these different ligand efficacies is unknown.
Here we present four crystal structures of the thermostabilized turkey (Meleagris
gallopavo) β(1)-adrenergic receptor (β(1)AR-m23) bound to the full agonists
carmoterol and isoprenaline and the partial agonists salbutamol and dobutamine.
In each case, agonist binding induces a 1 Å contraction of the
catecholamine-binding pocket relative to the antagonist bound receptor. Full
agonists can form hydrogen bonds with two conserved serine residues in
transmembrane helix 5 (Ser(5.42) and Ser(5.46)), but partial agonists only
interact with Ser(5.42) (superscripts refer to Ballesteros-Weinstein numbering). 
The structures provide an understanding of the pharmacological differences
between different ligand classes, illuminating how GPCRs function and providing a
solid foundation for the structure-based design of novel ligands with predictable
efficacies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09746 
PMCID: PMC3023143
PMID: 21228877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature09665.

Structure and function of an irreversible agonist-β(2) adrenoceptor complex.

Rosenbaum DM(1), Zhang C, Lyons JA, Holl R, Aragao D, Arlow DH, Rasmussen SG,
Choi HJ, Devree BT, Sunahara RK, Chae PS, Gellman SH, Dror RO, Shaw DE, Weis WI, 
Caffrey M, Gmeiner P, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 279 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):172-3.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Feb;10(2):97.

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are eukaryotic integral membrane proteins
that modulate biological function by initiating cellular signalling in response
to chemically diverse agonists. Despite recent progress in the structural biology
of GPCRs, the molecular basis for agonist binding and allosteric modulation of
these proteins is poorly understood. Structural knowledge of agonist-bound states
is essential for deciphering the mechanism of receptor activation, and for
structure-guided design and optimization of ligands. However, the crystallization
of agonist-bound GPCRs has been hampered by modest affinities and rapid off-rates
of available agonists. Using the inactive structure of the human β(2) adrenergic 
receptor (β(2)AR) as a guide, we designed a β(2)AR agonist that can be covalently
tethered to a specific site on the receptor through a disulphide bond. The
covalent β(2)AR-agonist complex forms efficiently, and is capable of activating a
heterotrimeric G protein. We crystallized a covalent agonist-bound β(2)AR-T4L
fusion protein in lipid bilayers through the use of the lipidic mesophase method,
and determined its structure at 3.5 Å resolution. A comparison to the inactive
structure and an antibody-stabilized active structure (companion paper) shows how
binding events at both the extracellular and intracellular surfaces are required 
to stabilize an active conformation of the receptor. The structures are in
agreement with long-timescale (up to 30 μs) molecular dynamics simulations
showing that an agonist-bound active conformation spontaneously relaxes to an
inactive-like conformation in the absence of a G protein or stabilizing antibody.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09665 
PMCID: PMC3074335
PMID: 21228876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):203-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09630.

Reliability of flipper-banded penguins as indicators of climate change.

Saraux C(1), Le Bohec C, Durant JM, Viblanc VA, Gauthier-Clerc M, Beaune D, Park 
YH, Yoccoz NG, Stenseth NC, Le Maho Y.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Strasbourg, Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien, 23 rue
Becquerel, 67087 Strasbourg, France. claire.saraux@c-strasbourg.fr

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Mar 10;471(7337):254.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):164-5.

In 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change highlighted an urgent need
to assess the responses of marine ecosystems to climate change. Because they lie 
in a high-latitude region, the Southern Ocean ecosystems are expected to be
strongly affected by global warming. Using top predators of this highly
productive ocean (such as penguins) as integrative indicators may help us assess 
the impacts of climate change on marine ecosystems. Yet most available
information on penguin population dynamics is based on the controversial use of
flipper banding. Although some reports have found the effects of flipper bands to
be deleterious, some short-term (one-year) studies have concluded otherwise,
resulting in the continuation of extensive banding schemes and the use of data
sets thus collected to predict climate impact on natural populations. Here we
show that banding of free-ranging king penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) impairs
both survival and reproduction, ultimately affecting population growth rate. Over
the course of a 10-year longitudinal study, banded birds produced 41% [corrected]
fewer chicks and had a survival rate 16 percentage points [corrected] lower than 
non-banded birds, demonstrating a massive long-term impact of banding and thus
refuting the assumption that birds will ultimately adapt to being banded. Indeed,
banded birds still arrived later for breeding at the study site and had longer
foraging trips even after 10 years. One of our major findings is that responses
of flipper-banded penguins to climate variability (that is, changes in sea
surface temperature and in the Southern Oscillation index) differ from those of
non-banded birds. We show that only long-term investigations may allow an
evaluation of the impact of flipper bands and that every major life-history trait
can be affected, calling into question the banding schemes still going on. In
addition, our understanding of the effects of climate change on marine ecosystems
based on flipper-band data should be reconsidered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09630 
PMID: 21228875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):198-202. doi: 10.1038/nature09690.

Contrasting crustal production and rapid mantle transitions beneath back-arc
ridges.

Dunn RA(1), Martinez F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii
96822, USA. dunn@soest.hawaii.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):170-1.

The opening of back-arc basins behind subduction zones progresses from initial
rifting near the volcanic arc to seafloor spreading. During this process, the
spreading ridge and the volcanic arc separate and lavas erupted at the ridge are 
predicted to evolve away from being heavily subduction influenced (with high
volatile contents derived from the subducting plate). Current models predict
gradational, rather than abrupt, changes in the crust formed along the ridge as
the inferred broad melting region beneath it migrates away from heavily
subduction-influenced mantle. In contrast, here we show that across-strike and
along-strike changes in crustal properties at the Eastern Lau spreading centre
are large and abrupt, implying correspondingly large discontinuities in the
nature of the mantle supplying melt to the ridge axes. With incremental
separation of the ridge axis from the volcanic front of as little as 5 km,
seafloor morphology changes from shallower complex volcanic landforms to deeper
flat sea floor dominated by linear abyssal hills, upper crustal seismic
velocities abruptly increase by over 20%, and gravity anomalies and isostasy
indicate crustal thinning of more than 1.9 km. We infer that the abrupt changes
in crustal properties reflect rapid evolution of the mantle entrained by the
ridge, such that stable, broad triangular upwelling regions, as inferred for
mid-ocean ridges, cannot form near the mantle wedge corner. Instead, the
observations imply a dynamic process in which the ridge upwelling zone
preferentially captures water-rich low-viscosity mantle when it is near the arc. 
As the ridge moves away from the arc, a tipping point is reached at which that
material is rapidly released from the upwelling zone, resulting in rapid changes 
in the character of the crust formed at the ridge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09690 
PMID: 21228874 


849. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09686.

Nanoscale chemical tomography of buried organic-inorganic interfaces in the
chiton tooth.

Gordon LM(1), Joester D.

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, 2220
Campus Drive, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

Biological organisms possess an unparalleled ability to control the structure and
properties of mineralized tissues. They are able, for example, to guide the
formation of smoothly curving single crystals or tough, lightweight,
self-repairing skeletal elements. In many biominerals, an organic matrix
interacts with the mineral as it forms, controls its morphology and polymorph,
and is occluded during mineralization. The remarkable functional properties of
the resulting composites-such as outstanding fracture toughness and wear
resistance-can be attributed to buried organic-inorganic interfaces at multiple
hierarchical levels. Analysing and controlling such interfaces at the nanometre
length scale is critical also in emerging organic electronic and photovoltaic
hybrid materials. However, elucidating the structural and chemical complexity of 
buried organic-inorganic interfaces presents a challenge to state-of-the-art
imaging techniques. Here we show that pulsed-laser atom-probe tomography reveals 
three-dimensional chemical maps of organic fibres with a diameter of 5-10 nm in
the surrounding nano-crystalline magnetite (Fe(3)O(4)) mineral in the tooth of a 
marine mollusc, the chiton Chaetopleura apiculata. Remarkably, most fibres
co-localize with either sodium or magnesium. Furthermore, clustering of these
cations in the fibre indicates a structural level of hierarchy previously
undetected. Our results demonstrate that in the chiton tooth, individual organic 
fibres have different chemical compositions, and therefore probably different
functional roles in controlling fibre formation and matrix-mineral interactions. 
Atom-probe tomography is able to detect this chemical/structural heterogeneity by
virtue of its high three-dimensional spatial resolution and sensitivity across
the periodic table. We anticipate that the quantitative analysis and
visualization of nanometre-scale interfaces by laser-pulsed atom-probe tomography
will contribute greatly to our understanding not only of biominerals (such as
bone, dentine and enamel), but also of synthetic organic-inorganic composites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09686 
PMID: 21228873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):189-93. doi: 10.1038/nature09720.

Two-dimensional electron gas with universal subbands at the surface of SrTiO(3).

Santander-Syro AF(1), Copie O, Kondo T, Fortuna F, Pailhès S, Weht R, Qiu XG,
Bertran F, Nicolaou A, Taleb-Ibrahimi A, Le Fèvre P, Herranz G, Bibes M, Reyren
N, Apertet Y, Lecoeur P, Barthélémy A, Rozenberg MJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSNSM, CNRS/IN2P3 and Université Paris-Sud, Bâtiments 104 et 108, 91405 Orsay 
cedex, France. andres.santander@csnsm.in2p3.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):167-8.

As silicon is the basis of conventional electronics, so strontium titanate
(SrTiO(3)) is the foundation of the emerging field of oxide electronics. SrTiO(3)
is the preferred template for the creation of exotic, two-dimensional (2D) phases
of electron matter at oxide interfaces that have metal-insulator transitions,
superconductivity or large negative magnetoresistance. However, the physical
nature of the electronic structure underlying these 2D electron gases (2DEGs),
which is crucial to understanding their remarkable properties, remains elusive.
Here we show, using angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, that there is a
highly metallic universal 2DEG at the vacuum-cleaved surface of SrTiO(3)
(including the non-doped insulating material) independently of bulk carrier
densities over more than seven decades. This 2DEG is confined within a region of 
about five unit cells and has a sheet carrier density of ∼0.33 electrons per
square lattice parameter. The electronic structure consists of multiple subbands 
of heavy and light electrons. The similarity of this 2DEG to those reported in
SrTiO(3)-based heterostructures and field-effect transistors suggests that
different forms of electron confinement at the surface of SrTiO(3) lead to
essentially the same 2DEG. Our discovery provides a model system for the study of
the electronic structure of 2DEGs in SrTiO(3)-based devices and a novel means of 
generating 2DEGs at the surfaces of transition-metal oxides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09720 
PMID: 21228872 


851. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):185-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09680.

Local charge of the ν = 5/2 fractional quantum Hall state.

Venkatachalam V(1), Yacoby A, Pfeiffer L, West K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, 11 Oxford Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Electrons moving in two dimensions under the influence of strong magnetic fields 
effectively lose their kinetic energy and display exotic behaviour dominated by
Coulomb forces. When the ratio of electrons to magnetic flux quanta in the system
(ν) is near 5/2, the electrons are predicted to condense into a correlated phase 
with fractionally charged quasiparticles and a ground-state degeneracy that grows
exponentially as these quasiparticles are introduced. The only way for electrons 
to transform between the many ground states would be to braid the fractional
excitations around each other. This property has been proposed as the basis of a 
fault-tolerant quantum computer. Here we present observations of localized
quasiparticles at ν = 5/2, confined to puddles by disorder. Using a local
electrometer to compare how quasiparticles at ν = 5/2 and ν = 7/3 charge these
puddles, we were able to extract the ratio of local charges for these states.
Averaged over several disorder configurations and samples, we found the ratio to 
be 4/3, suggesting that the local charges are = e/3 and = e/4, where e is the
charge of an electron. This is in agreement with theoretical predictions for a
paired state at ν = 5/2. Confirming the existence of localized e/4 quasiparticles
shows that proposed interferometry experiments to test statistics and
computational ability of the state at ν = 5/2 would be possible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09680 
PMID: 21228871 


852. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):181-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09619.

A distortion of very-high-redshift galaxy number counts by gravitational lensing.

Wyithe JS(1), Yan H, Windhorst RA, Mao S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010,
Australia. swyithe@unimelb.edu.au

The observed number counts of high-redshift galaxy candidates have been used to
build up a statistical description of star-forming activity at redshift z ≳ 7,
when galaxies reionized the Universe. Standard models predict that a high
incidence of gravitational lensing will probably distort measurements of flux and
number of these earliest galaxies. The raw probability of this happening has been
estimated to be ∼0.5 per cent (refs 11, 12), but can be larger owing to
observational biases. Here we report that gravitational lensing is likely to
dominate the observed properties of galaxies with redshifts of z ≳ 12, when the
instrumental limiting magnitude is expected to be brighter than the
characteristic magnitude of the galaxy sample. The number counts could be
modified by an order of magnitude, with most galaxies being part of multiply
imaged systems, located less than 1 arcsec from brighter foreground galaxies at
z ≈ 2. This lens-induced association of high-redshift and foreground galaxies has
perhaps already been observed among a sample of galaxy candidates identified at
z ≈ 10.6. Future surveys will need to be designed to account for a significant
gravitational lensing bias in high-redshift galaxy samples.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09619 
PMID: 21228870 


853. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):175-80. doi: 10.1038/nature09648.

Structure of a nanobody-stabilized active state of the β(2) adrenoceptor.

Rasmussen SG(1), Choi HJ, Fung JJ, Pardon E, Casarosa P, Chae PS, Devree BT,
Rosenbaum DM, Thian FS, Kobilka TS, Schnapp A, Konetzki I, Sunahara RK, Gellman
SH, Pautsch A, Steyaert J, Weis WI, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 279 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):172-3.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2011 Feb;10(2):97.

G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) exhibit a spectrum of functional behaviours
in response to natural and synthetic ligands. Recent crystal structures provide
insights into inactive states of several GPCRs. Efforts to obtain an
agonist-bound active-state GPCR structure have proven difficult due to the
inherent instability of this state in the absence of a G protein. We generated a 
camelid antibody fragment (nanobody) to the human β(2) adrenergic receptor
(β(2)AR) that exhibits G protein-like behaviour, and obtained an agonist-bound,
active-state crystal structure of the receptor-nanobody complex. Comparison with 
the inactive β(2)AR structure reveals subtle changes in the binding pocket;
however, these small changes are associated with an 11 Å outward movement of the 
cytoplasmic end of transmembrane segment 6, and rearrangements of transmembrane
segments 5 and 7 that are remarkably similar to those observed in opsin, an
active form of rhodopsin. This structure provides insights into the process of
agonist binding and activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09648 
PMCID: PMC3058308
PMID: 21228869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):226-30. doi: 10.1038/nature09642. Epub 2011 Jan 2.

Hydrostatic pressure and the actomyosin cortex drive mitotic cell rounding.

Stewart MP(1), Helenius J, Toyoda Y, Ramanathan SP, Muller DJ, Hyman AA.

Author information: 
(1)ETH Zürich, Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, CH-4058 Basel,
Switzerland.

During mitosis, adherent animal cells undergo a drastic shape change, from
essentially flat to round. Mitotic cell rounding is thought to facilitate
organization within the mitotic cell and be necessary for the geometric
requirements of division. However, the forces that drive this shape change remain
poorly understood in the presence of external impediments, such as a tissue
environment. Here we use cantilevers to track cell rounding force and volume. We 
show that cells have an outward rounding force, which increases as cells enter
mitosis. We find that this mitotic rounding force depends both on the actomyosin 
cytoskeleton and the cells' ability to regulate osmolarity. The rounding force
itself is generated by an osmotic pressure. However, the actomyosin cortex is
required to maintain this rounding force against external impediments.
Instantaneous disruption of the actomyosin cortex leads to volume increase, and
stimulation of actomyosin contraction leads to volume decrease. These results
show that in cells, osmotic pressure is balanced by inwardly directed actomyosin 
cortex contraction. Thus, by locally modulating actomyosin-cortex-dependent
surface tension and globally regulating osmotic pressure, cells can control their
volume, shape and mechanical properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09642 
PMID: 21196934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):231-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09607. Epub 2011 Jan 2.

c-Jun N-terminal phosphorylation antagonises recruitment of the Mbd3/NuRD
repressor complex.

Aguilera C(1), Nakagawa K, Sancho R, Chakraborty A, Hendrich B, Behrens A.

Author information: 
(1)Mammalian Genetics Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute,
Lincoln's Inn Fields Laboratories, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PX, UK.

AP-1 (activator protein 1) activity is strongly induced in response to numerous
signals, including growth factors, cytokines and extracellular stresses. The
proto-oncoprotein c-Jun belongs to the AP-1 group of transcription factors and it
is a crucial regulator of intestinal progenitor proliferation and tumorigenesis. 
An important mechanism of AP-1 stimulation is phosphorylation of c-Jun by the Jun
amino-terminal kinases (JNKs). N-terminal phosphorylation of the c-Jun
transactivation domain increases target gene transcription, but a molecular
explanation was elusive. Here we show that unphosphorylated, but not N-terminally
phosphorylated c-Jun, interacts with Mbd3 and thereby recruits the nucleosome
remodelling and histone deacetylation (NuRD) repressor complex. Mbd3 depletion in
colon cancer cells increased histone acetylation at AP-1-dependent promoters,
which resulted in increased target gene expression. The intestinal stem cell
marker lgr5 was identified as a novel target gene controlled by c-Jun/Mbd3.
Gut-specific conditional deletion of mbd3 (mbd3(ΔG/ΔG) mice) stimulated c-Jun
activity and increased progenitor cell proliferation. In response to
inflammation, mdb3 deficiency resulted in colonic hyperproliferation and
mbd3(ΔG/ΔG) mice showed markedly increased susceptibility to colitis-induced
tumorigenesis. Notably, concomitant inactivation of a single allele of c-jun
reverted physiological and pathological hyperproliferation, as well as the
increased tumorigenesis in mbd3(ΔG/ΔG) mice. Thus the transactivation domain of
c-Jun recruits Mbd3/NuRD to AP-1 target genes to mediate gene repression, and
this repression is relieved by JNK-mediated c-Jun N-terminal phosphorylation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09607 
PMID: 21196933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09585. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

H2AX prevents CtIP-mediated DNA end resection and aberrant repair in G1-phase
lymphocytes.

Helmink BA(1), Tubbs AT, Dorsett Y, Bednarski JJ, Walker LM, Feng Z, Sharma GG,
McKinnon PJ, Zhang J, Bassing CH, Sleckman BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Apr 14;472(7342):247.

DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are generated by the recombination activating
gene (RAG) endonuclease in all developing lymphocytes as they assemble antigen
receptor genes. DNA cleavage by RAG occurs only at the G1 phase of the cell cycle
and generates two hairpin-sealed DNA (coding) ends that require nucleolytic
opening before their repair by classical non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ).
Although there are several cellular nucleases that could perform this function,
only the Artemis nuclease is able to do so efficiently. Here, in vivo, we show
that in murine cells the histone protein H2AX prevents nucleases other than
Artemis from processing hairpin-sealed coding ends; in the absence of H2AX, CtIP 
can efficiently promote the hairpin opening and resection of DNA ends generated
by RAG cleavage. This CtIP-mediated resection is inhibited by γ-H2AX and by MDC-1
(mediator of DNA damage checkpoint 1), which binds to γ-H2AX in chromatin
flanking DNA DSBs. Moreover, the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase
activates antagonistic pathways that modulate this resection. CtIP DNA end
resection activity is normally limited to cells at post-replicative stages of the
cell cycle, in which it is essential for homology-mediated repair. In G1-phase
lymphocytes, DNA ends that are processed by CtIP are not efficiently joined by
classical NHEJ and the joints that do form frequently use micro-homologies and
show significant chromosomal deletions. Thus, H2AX preserves the structural
integrity of broken DNA ends in G1-phase lymphocytes, thereby preventing these
DNA ends from accessing repair pathways that promote genomic instability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09585 
PMCID: PMC3150591
PMID: 21160476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature09604. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

ATM damage response and XLF repair factor are functionally redundant in joining
DNA breaks.

Zha S(1), Guo C, Boboila C, Oksenych V, Cheng HL, Zhang Y, Wesemann DR, Yuen G,
Patel H, Goff PH, Dubois RL, Alt FW.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Children's Hospital, the Immune Disease
Institute and the Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Classical non-homologous DNA end-joining (NHEJ) is a major mammalian DNA
double-strand-break (DSB) repair pathway. Deficiencies for classical NHEJ
factors, such as XRCC4, abrogate lymphocyte development, owing to a strict
requirement for classical NHEJ to join V(D)J recombination DSB intermediates. The
XRCC4-like factor (XLF; also called NHEJ1) is mutated in certain immunodeficient 
human patients and has been implicated in classical NHEJ; however, XLF-deficient 
mice have relatively normal lymphocyte development and their lymphocytes support 
normal V(D)J recombination. The ataxia telangiectasia-mutated protein (ATM)
detects DSBs and activates DSB responses by phosphorylating substrates including 
histone H2AX. However, ATM deficiency causes only modest V(D)J recombination and 
lymphocyte developmental defects, and H2AX deficiency does not have a measurable 
impact on these processes. Here we show that XLF, ATM and H2AX all have
fundamental roles in processing and joining DNA ends during V(D)J recombination, 
but that these roles have been masked by unanticipated functional redundancies.
Thus, combined deficiency of ATM and XLF nearly blocks mouse lymphocyte
development due to an inability to process and join chromosomal V(D)J
recombination DSB intermediates. Combined XLF and ATM deficiency also severely
impairs classical NHEJ, but not alternative end-joining, during IgH class switch 
recombination. Redundant ATM and XLF functions in classical NHEJ are mediated by 
ATM kinase activity and are not required for extra-chromosomal V(D)J
recombination, indicating a role for chromatin-associated ATM substrates.
Correspondingly, conditional H2AX inactivation in XLF-deficient pro-B lines leads
to V(D)J recombination defects associated with marked degradation of unjoined
V(D)J ends, revealing that H2AX has a role in this process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09604 
PMCID: PMC3058373
PMID: 21160472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09565. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Robust multicellular computing using genetically encoded NOR gates and chemical
'wires'.

Tamsir A(1), Tabor JJ, Voigt CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):171-2.

Computation underlies the organization of cells into higher-order structures, for
example during development or the spatial association of bacteria in a biofilm.
Each cell performs a simple computational operation, but when combined with
cell-cell communication, intricate patterns emerge. Here we study this process by
combining a simple genetic circuit with quorum sensing to produce more complex
computations in space. We construct a simple NOR logic gate in Escherichia coli
by arranging two tandem promoters that function as inputs to drive the
transcription of a repressor. The repressor inactivates a promoter that serves as
the output. Individual colonies of E. coli carry the same NOR gate, but the
inputs and outputs are wired to different orthogonal quorum-sensing 'sender' and 
'receiver' devices. The quorum molecules form the wires between gates. By
arranging the colonies in different spatial configurations, all possible
two-input gates are produced, including the difficult XOR and EQUALS functions.
The response is strong and robust, with 5- to >300-fold changes between the 'on' 
and 'off' states. This work helps elucidate the design rules by which simple
logic can be harnessed to produce diverse and complex calculations by rewiring
communication between cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09565 
PMCID: PMC3904220
PMID: 21150903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):207-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09679. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

Distributed biological computation with multicellular engineered networks.

Regot S(1), Macia J, Conde N, Furukawa K, Kjellén J, Peeters T, Hohmann S, de
Nadal E, Posas F, Solé R.

Author information: 
(1)Cell signaling unit, Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de la Salut,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), E-08003 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):171-2.

Ongoing efforts within synthetic and systems biology have been directed towards
the building of artificial computational devices using engineered biological
units as basic building blocks. Such efforts, inspired in the standard design of 
electronic circuits, are limited by the difficulties arising from wiring the
basic computational units (logic gates) through the appropriate connections, each
one to be implemented by a different molecule. Here, we show that there is a
logically different form of implementing complex Boolean logic computations that 
reduces wiring constraints thanks to a redundant distribution of the desired
output among engineered cells. A practical implementation is presented using a
library of engineered yeast cells, which can be combined in multiple ways. Each
construct defines a logic function and combining cells and their connections
allow building more complex synthetic devices. As a proof of principle, we have
implemented many logic functions by using just a few engineered cells. Of note,
small modifications and combination of those cells allowed for implementing more 
complex circuits such as a multiplexer or a 1-bit adder with carry, showing the
great potential for re-utilization of small parts of the circuit. Our results
support the approach of using cellular consortia as an efficient way of
engineering complex tasks not easily solvable using single-cell implementations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09679 
PMID: 21150900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):216-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09609. Epub 2010 Dec 1.

Integrative genomics identifies LMO1 as a neuroblastoma oncogene.

Wang K(1), Diskin SJ, Zhang H, Attiyeh EF, Winter C, Hou C, Schnepp RW, Diamond
M, Bosse K, Mayes PA, Glessner J, Kim C, Frackelton E, Garris M, Wang Q,
Glaberson W, Chiavacci R, Nguyen L, Jagannathan J, Saeki N, Sasaki H, Grant SF,
Iolascon A, Mosse YP, Cole KA, Li H, Devoto M, McGrady PW, London WB, Capasso M, 
Rahman N, Hakonarson H, Maris JM.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Applied Genomics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Neuroblastoma is a childhood cancer of the sympathetic nervous system that
accounts for approximately 10% of all paediatric oncology deaths. To identify
genetic risk factors for neuroblastoma, we performed a genome-wide association
study (GWAS) on 2,251 patients and 6,097 control subjects of European ancestry
from four case series. Here we report a significant association within LIM domain
only 1 (LMO1) at 11p15.4 (rs110419, combined P = 5.2 × 10(-16), odds ratio of
risk allele = 1.34 (95% confidence interval 1.25-1.44)). The signal was enriched 
in the subset of patients with the most aggressive form of the disease. LMO1
encodes a cysteine-rich transcriptional regulator, and its paralogues (LMO2, LMO3
and LMO4) have each been previously implicated in cancer. In parallel, we
analysed genome-wide DNA copy number alterations in 701 primary tumours. We found
that the LMO1 locus was aberrant in 12.4% through a duplication event, and that
this event was associated with more advanced disease (P < 0.0001) and survival (P
= 0.041). The germline single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) risk alleles and
somatic copy number gains were associated with increased LMO1 expression in
neuroblastoma cell lines and primary tumours, consistent with a gain-of-function 
role in tumorigenesis. Short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated depletion of LMO1
inhibited growth of neuroblastoma cells with high LMO1 expression, whereas forced
expression of LMO1 in neuroblastoma cells with low LMO1 expression enhanced
proliferation. These data show that common polymorphisms at the LMO1 locus are
strongly associated with susceptibility to developing neuroblastoma, but also may
influence the likelihood of further somatic alterations at this locus, leading to
malignant progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09609 
PMCID: PMC3320515
PMID: 21124317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nature. 2011 Jan 13;469(7329):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09663. Epub 2010 Dec 1.

A role for mitochondria in NLRP3 inflammasome activation.

Zhou R(1), Yazdi AS, Menu P, Tschopp J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Immunity and Infection, University of
Lausanne, Chemin des Boveresses 155, CH-1066 Epalinges, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2011 Jul 7;475(7354):122.

An inflammatory response initiated by the NLRP3 inflammasome is triggered by a
variety of situations of host 'danger', including infection and metabolic
dysregulation. Previous studies suggested that NLRP3 inflammasome activity is
negatively regulated by autophagy and positively regulated by reactive oxygen
species (ROS) derived from an uncharacterized organelle. Here we show that
mitophagy/autophagy blockade leads to the accumulation of damaged, ROS-generating
mitochondria, and this in turn activates the NLRP3 inflammasome. Resting NLRP3
localizes to endoplasmic reticulum structures, whereas on inflammasome activation
both NLRP3 and its adaptor ASC redistribute to the perinuclear space where they
co-localize with endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria organelle clusters.
Notably, both ROS generation and inflammasome activation are suppressed when
mitochondrial activity is dysregulated by inhibition of the voltage-dependent
anion channel. This indicates that NLRP3 inflammasome senses mitochondrial
dysfunction and may explain the frequent association of mitochondrial damage with
inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09663 
PMID: 21124315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):84-8. doi: 10.1038/nature09660.

Competition and phylogeny determine community structure in Müllerian co-mimics.

Alexandrou MA(1), Oliveira C, Maillard M, McGill RA, Newton J, Creer S, Taylor
MI.

Author information: 
(1)Environment Centre Wales, Molecular Ecology and Fisheries Genetics Laboratory,
School of Biological Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Bangor University,
Bangor LL57 2UW, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):41-2.

Until recently, the study of negative and antagonistic interactions (for example,
competition and predation) has dominated our understanding of community
structure, maintenance and assembly. Nevertheless, a recent theoretical model
suggests that positive interactions (for example, mutualisms) may counterbalance 
competition, facilitating long-term coexistence even among ecologically
undifferentiated species. Müllerian mimics are mutualists that share the costs of
predator education and are therefore ideally suited for the investigation of
positive and negative interactions in community dynamics. The sole empirical test
of this model in a Müllerian mimetic community supports the prediction that
positive interactions outweigh the negative effects of spatial overlap (without
quantifying resource acquisition). Understanding the role of trophic niche
partitioning in facilitating the evolution and stability of Müllerian mimetic
communities is now of critical importance, but has yet to be formally
investigated. Here we show that resource partitioning and phylogeny determine
community structure and outweigh the positive effects of Müllerian mimicry in a
species-rich group of neotropical catfishes. From multiple, independent
reproductively isolated allopatric communities displaying convergently evolved
colour patterns, 92% consist of species that do not compete for resources.
Significant differences in phylogenetically conserved traits (snout morphology
and body size) were consistently linked to trait-specific resource acquisition.
Thus, we report the first evidence, to our knowledge, that competition for
trophic resources and phylogeny are pivotal factors in the stable evolution of
Müllerian mimicry rings. More generally, our work demonstrates that competition
for resources is likely to have a dominant role in the structuring of communities
that are simultaneously subject to the effects of both positive and negative
interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09660 
PMID: 21209663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature09700.

Geochemical evidence for widespread euxinia in the later Cambrian ocean.

Gill BC(1), Lyons TW, Young SA, Kump LR, Knoll AH, Saltzman MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, 900 University Avenue,
Riverside, California 92521, USA. bgill@fas.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):42-3.

Widespread anoxia in the ocean is frequently invoked as a primary driver of mass 
extinction as well as a long-term inhibitor of evolutionary radiation on early
Earth. In recent biogeochemical studies it has been hypothesized that oxygen
deficiency was widespread in subsurface water masses of later Cambrian oceans,
possibly influencing evolutionary events during this time. Physical evidence of
widespread anoxia in Cambrian oceans has remained elusive and thus its potential 
relationship to the palaeontological record remains largely unexplored. Here we
present sulphur isotope records from six globally distributed stratigraphic
sections of later Cambrian marine rocks (about 499 million years old). We find a 
positive sulphur isotope excursion in phase with the Steptoean Positive Carbon
Isotope Excursion (SPICE), a large and rapid excursion in the marine carbon
isotope record, which is thought to be indicative of a global carbon cycle
perturbation. Numerical box modelling of the paired carbon sulphur isotope data
indicates that these isotope shifts reflect transient increases in the burial of 
organic carbon and pyrite sulphur in sediments deposited under large-scale anoxic
and sulphidic (euxinic) conditions. Independently, molybdenum abundances in a
coeval black shale point convincingly to the transient spread of anoxia. These
results identify the SPICE interval as the best characterized ocean anoxic event 
in the pre-Mesozoic ocean and an extreme example of oxygen deficiency in the
later Cambrian ocean. Thus, a redox structure similar to those in Proterozoic
oceans may have persisted or returned in the oceans of the early Phanerozoic eon.
Indeed, the environmental challenges presented by widespread anoxia may have been
a prevalent if not dominant influence on animal evolution in Cambrian oceans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09700 
PMID: 21209662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature09693.

Sensing the anomeric effect in a solvent-free environment.

Cocinero EJ(1), Carçabal P, Vaden TD, Simons JP, Davis BG.

Author information: 
(1)Physical and Theoretical Chemistry Laboratory, Department of Chemistry,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QZ UK.

The anomeric effect is a chemical phenomenon that refers to an observed
stabilization of six-membered carbohydrate rings when they contain an
electronegative substituent at the C1 position of the ring. This stereoelectronic
effect influences the three-dimensional shapes of many biological molecules. It
can be manifested not only in this classical manner involving interaction of the 
endocyclic oxygen atom (O5) found in such sugars with the C1 substituent
(endo-anomeric effect) but also through a corresponding interaction of the
electronegative exocyclic substituent with O5 (exo-anomeric effect). However, the
underlying physical origin(s) of this phenomenon is still not clear. Here we
show, using a combination of laser spectroscopy and computational analysis, that 
a truncated peptide motif can engage the two anomers of an isolated sugar in the 
gas phase, an environment lacking extraneous factors which could confound the
analysis. (Anomers are isomers that differ in the orientation of the substituent 
at C1.) Complexes formed between the peptide and the α- or β-anomers of
d-galactose are nearly identical structurally; however, the strength of the
polarization of their interactions with the peptide differs greatly. Natural bond
order calculations support this observation, and together they reveal the
dominance of the exo- over the endo-anomeric effect. As interactions between
oxygen atoms at positions C1 and C2 (O1 and O2, respectively) on the pyranose
ring can alter the exo/endo ratio of a carbohydrate, our results suggest that it 
will be important to re-evaluate the influence, and biological effects, of
substituents at position C2 in sugars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09693 
PMID: 21209661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09683.

Vernier templating and synthesis of a 12-porphyrin nano-ring.

O'Sullivan MC(1), Sprafke JK, Kondratuk DV, Rinfray C, Claridge TD, Saywell A,
Blunt MO, O'Shea JN, Beton PH, Malfois M, Anderson HL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Oxford University, Chemistry Research Laboratory,
Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3TA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):39-41.

Templates are widely used to arrange molecular components so they can be
covalently linked into complex molecules that are not readily accessible by
classical synthetic methods. Nature uses sophisticated templates such as the
ribosome, whereas chemists use simple ions or small molecules. But as we tackle
the synthesis of larger targets, we require larger templates-which themselves
become synthetically challenging. Here we show that Vernier complexes can solve
this problem: if the number of binding sites on the template, n(T), is not a
multiple of the number of binding sites on the molecular building blocks, n(B),
then small templates can direct the assembly of relatively large Vernier
complexes where the number of binding sites in the product, n(P), is the lowest
common multiple of n(B) and n(T) (refs 8, 9). We illustrate the value of this
concept for the covalent synthesis of challenging targets by using a simple
six-site template to direct the synthesis of a 12-porphyrin nano-ring with a
diameter of 4.7 nm, thus establishing Vernier templating as a powerful new
strategy for the synthesis of large monodisperse macromolecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09683 
PMID: 21209660 


866. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):58-63. doi: 10.1038/nature09622.

Fungal lipochitooligosaccharide symbiotic signals in arbuscular mycorrhiza.

Maillet F(1), Poinsot V, André O, Puech-Pagès V, Haouy A, Gueunier M, Cromer L,
Giraudet D, Formey D, Niebel A, Martinez EA, Driguez H, Bécard G, Dénarié J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire des Interactions Plantes-Microorganismes, UMR 441/2594 INRA-CNRS, 
B.P. 52627, F-31326 Castanet-Tolosan CEDEX, France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2011 Mar;9(3):148.

Arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) is a root endosymbiosis between plants and
glomeromycete fungi. It is the most widespread terrestrial plant symbiosis,
improving plant uptake of water and mineral nutrients. Yet, despite its crucial
role in land ecosystems, molecular mechanisms leading to its formation are just
beginning to be unravelled. Recent evidence suggests that AM fungi produce
diffusible symbiotic signals. Here we show that Glomus intraradices secretes
symbiotic signals that are a mixture of sulphated and non-sulphated simple
lipochitooligosaccharides (LCOs), which stimulate formation of AM in plant
species of diverse families (Fabaceae, Asteraceae and Umbelliferae). In the
legume Medicago truncatula these signals stimulate root growth and branching by
the symbiotic DMI signalling pathway. These findings provide a better
understanding of the evolution of signalling mechanisms involved in plant root
endosymbioses and will greatly facilitate their molecular dissection. They also
open the way to using these natural and very active molecules in agriculture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09622 
PMID: 21209659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):68-71. doi: 10.1038/nature09644.

Evidence for a spin-aligned neutron-proton paired phase from the level structure 
of (92)Pd.

Cederwall B(1), Moradi FG, Bäck T, Johnson A, Blomqvist J, Clément E, de France
G, Wadsworth R, Andgren K, Lagergren K, Dijon A, Jaworski G, Liotta R, Qi C,
Nyakó BM, Nyberg J, Palacz M, Al-Azri H, Algora A, de Angelis G, Ataç A,
Bhattacharyya S, Brock T, Brown JR, Davies P, Di Nitto A, Dombrádi Z, Gadea A,
Gál J, Hadinia B, Johnston-Theasby F, Joshi P, Juhász K, Julin R, Jungclaus A,
Kalinka G, Kara SO, Khaplanov A, Kownacki J, La Rana G, Lenzi SM, Molnár J, Moro 
R, Napoli DR, Singh BS, Persson A, Recchia F, Sandzelius M, Scheurer JN, Sletten 
G, Sohler D, Söderström PA, Taylor MJ, Timár J, Valiente-Dobón JJ, Vardaci E,
Williams S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, SE-10691 Stockholm,
Sweden. cederwall@nuclear.kth.se

Shell structure and magic numbers in atomic nuclei were generally explained by
pioneering work that introduced a strong spin-orbit interaction to the nuclear
shell model potential. However, knowledge of nuclear forces and the mechanisms
governing the structure of nuclei, in particular far from stability, is still
incomplete. In nuclei with equal neutron and proton numbers (N = Z), enhanced
correlations arise between neutrons and protons (two distinct types of fermions) 
that occupy orbitals with the same quantum numbers. Such correlations have been
predicted to favour an unusual type of nuclear superfluidity, termed isoscalar
neutron-proton pairing, in addition to normal isovector pairing. Despite many
experimental efforts, these predictions have not been confirmed. Here we report
the experimental observation of excited states in the N = Z = 46 nucleus (92)Pd. 
Gamma rays emitted following the (58)Ni((36)Ar,2n)(92)Pd fusion-evaporation
reaction were identified using a combination of state-of-the-art high-resolution 
γ-ray, charged-particle and neutron detector systems. Our results reveal evidence
for a spin-aligned, isoscalar neutron-proton coupling scheme, different from the 
previous prediction. We suggest that this coupling scheme replaces normal
superfluidity (characterized by seniority coupling) in the ground and low-lying
excited states of the heaviest N = Z nuclei. Such strong, isoscalar
neutron-proton correlations would have a considerable impact on the nuclear level
structure and possibly influence the dynamics of rapid proton capture in stellar 
nucleosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09644 
PMID: 21179086 


868. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):93-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09649. Epub 2010 Dec 19.

Rapid evolutionary innovation during an Archaean genetic expansion.

David LA(1), Alm EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Computational & Systems Biology Initiative, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

The natural history of Precambrian life is still unknown because of the rarity of
microbial fossils and biomarkers. However, the composition of modern-day genomes 
may bear imprints of ancient biogeochemical events. Here we use an explicit model
of macroevolution including gene birth, transfer, duplication and loss events to 
map the evolutionary history of 3,983 gene families across the three domains of
life onto a geological timeline. Surprisingly, we find that a brief period of
genetic innovation during the Archaean eon, which coincides with a rapid
diversification of bacterial lineages, gave rise to 27% of major modern gene
families. A functional analysis of genes born during this Archaean expansion
reveals that they are likely to be involved in electron-transport and respiratory
pathways. Genes arising after this expansion show increasing use of molecular
oxygen (P = 3.4 × 10(-8)) and redox-sensitive transition metals and compounds,
which is consistent with an increasingly oxygenating biosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09649 
PMID: 21170026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):107-11. doi: 10.1038/nature09593. Epub 2010 Dec 19.

The assembly of a GTPase-kinase signalling complex by a bacterial catalytic
scaffold.

Selyunin AS(1), Sutton SE, Weigele BA, Reddick LE, Orchard RC, Bresson SM,
Tomchick DR, Alto NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390-8816, USA.

The fidelity and specificity of information flow within a cell is controlled by
scaffolding proteins that assemble and link enzymes into signalling circuits.
These circuits can be inhibited by bacterial effector proteins that
post-translationally modify individual pathway components. However, there is
emerging evidence that pathogens directly organize higher-order signalling
networks through enzyme scaffolding, and the identity of the effectors and their 
mechanisms of action are poorly understood. Here we identify the
enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 type III effector EspG as a regulator
of endomembrane trafficking using a functional screen, and report
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPases and p21-activated kinases (PAKs) as its
relevant host substrates. The 2.5 Å crystal structure of EspG in complex with
ARF6 shows how EspG blocks GTPase-activating-protein-assisted GTP hydrolysis,
revealing a potent mechanism of GTPase signalling inhibition at organelle
membranes. In addition, the 2.8 Å crystal structure of EspG in complex with the
autoinhibitory Iα3-helix of PAK2 defines a previously unknown catalytic site in
EspG and provides an allosteric mechanism of kinase activation by a bacterial
effector. Unexpectedly, ARF and PAKs are organized on adjacent surfaces of EspG, 
indicating its role as a 'catalytic scaffold' that effectively reprograms
cellular events through the functional assembly of GTPase-kinase signalling
complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09593 
PMCID: PMC3675890
PMID: 21170023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature09628. Epub 2010 Dec 15.

Taxadiene synthase structure and evolution of modular architecture in terpene
biosynthesis.

Köksal M(1), Jin Y, Coates RM, Croteau R, Christianson DW.

Author information: 
(1)Roy and Diana Vagelos Laboratories, Department of Chemistry, University of
Pennsylvania, 231 South 34th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6323, USA.

With more than 55,000 members identified so far in all forms of life, the family 
of terpene or terpenoid natural products represents the epitome of molecular
biodiversity. A well-known and important member of this family is the polycyclic 
diterpenoid Taxol (paclitaxel), which promotes tubulin polymerization and shows
remarkable efficacy in cancer chemotherapy. The first committed step of Taxol
biosynthesis in the Pacific yew (Taxus brevifolia) is the cyclization of the
linear isoprenoid substrate geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) to form
taxa-4(5),11(12)diene, which is catalysed by taxadiene synthase. The full-length 
form of this diterpene cyclase contains 862 residues, but a roughly 80-residue
amino-terminal transit sequence is cleaved on maturation in plastids. We now
report the X-ray crystal structure of a truncation variant lacking the transit
sequence and an additional 27 residues at the N terminus, hereafter designated
TXS. Specifically, we have determined structures of TXS complexed with
13-aza-13,14-dihydrocopalyl diphosphate (1.82 Å resolution) and
2-fluorogeranylgeranyl diphosphate (2.25 Å resolution). The TXS structure reveals
a modular assembly of three α-helical domains. The carboxy-terminal catalytic
domain is a class I terpenoid cyclase, which binds and activates substrate GGPP
with a three-metal ion cluster. The N-terminal domain and a third 'insertion'
domain together adopt the fold of a vestigial class II terpenoid cyclase. A
class II cyclase activates the isoprenoid substrate by protonation instead of
ionization, and the TXS structure reveals a definitive connection between the two
distinct cyclase classes in the evolution of terpenoid biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09628 
PMCID: PMC3059769
PMID: 21160477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature09608. Epub 2010 Dec 12.

CENP-B preserves genome integrity at replication forks paused by retrotransposon 
LTR.

Zaratiegui M(1), Vaughn MW, Irvine DV, Goto D, Watt S, Bähler J, Arcangioli B,
Martienssen RA.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA.

Centromere-binding protein B (CENP-B) is a widely conserved DNA binding factor
associated with heterochromatin and centromeric satellite repeats. In fission
yeast, CENP-B homologues have been shown to silence long terminal repeat (LTR)
retrotransposons by recruiting histone deacetylases. However, CENP-B factors also
have unexplained roles in DNA replication. Here we show that a molecular function
of CENP-B is to promote replication-fork progression through the LTR. Mutants
have increased genomic instability caused by replication-fork blockage that
depends on the DNA binding factor switch-activating protein 1 (Sap1), which is
directly recruited by the LTR. The loss of Sap1-dependent barrier activity allows
the unhindered progression of the replication fork, but results in rearrangements
deleterious to the retrotransposon. We conclude that retrotransposons influence
replication polarity through recruitment of Sap1 and transposition near
replication-fork blocks, whereas CENP-B counteracts this activity and promotes
fork stability. Our results may account for the role of LTR in fragile sites, and
for the association of CENP-B with pericentromeric heterochromatin and tandem
satellite repeats.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09608 
PMCID: PMC3057531
PMID: 21151105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):64-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09602. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

A high C/O ratio and weak thermal inversion in the atmosphere of exoplanet
WASP-12b.

Madhusudhan N(1), Harrington J, Stevenson KB, Nymeyer S, Campo CJ, Wheatley PJ,
Deming D, Blecic J, Hardy RA, Lust NB, Anderson DR, Collier-Cameron A, Britt CB, 
Bowman WC, Hebb L, Hellier C, Maxted PF, Pollacco D, West RG.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
nmadhu@mit.edu

The carbon-to-oxygen ratio (C/O) in a planet provides critical information about 
its primordial origins and subsequent evolution. A primordial C/O greater than
0.8 causes a carbide-dominated interior, as opposed to the silicate-dominated
composition found on Earth; the atmosphere can also differ from those in the
Solar System. The solar C/O is 0.54 (ref. 3). Here we report an analysis of
dayside multi-wavelength photometry of the transiting hot-Jupiter WASP-12b (ref. 
6) that reveals C/O ≥ 1 in its atmosphere. The atmosphere is abundant in CO. It
is depleted in water vapour and enhanced in methane, each by more than two orders
of magnitude compared to a solar-abundance chemical-equilibrium model at the
expected temperatures. We also find that the extremely irradiated atmosphere
(T > 2,500 K) of WASP-12b lacks a prominent thermal inversion (or stratosphere)
and has very efficient day-night energy circulation. The absence of a strong
thermal inversion is in stark contrast to theoretical predictions for the most
highly irradiated hot-Jupiter atmospheres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09602 
PMID: 21150901 


873. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):53-7. doi: 10.1038/nature09588. Epub 2010 Dec 8.

A selective role for dopamine in stimulus-reward learning.

Flagel SB(1), Clark JJ, Robinson TE, Mayo L, Czuj A, Willuhn I, Akers CA, Clinton
SM, Phillips PE, Akil H.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience Institute, University of Michigan,
Michigan, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2011 Feb;12(2):64.

Individuals make choices and prioritize goals using complex processes that assign
value to rewards and associated stimuli. During Pavlovian learning, previously
neutral stimuli that predict rewards can acquire motivational properties,
becoming attractive and desirable incentive stimuli. However, whether a cue acts 
solely as a predictor of reward, or also serves as an incentive stimulus, differs
between individuals. Thus, individuals vary in the degree to which cues bias
choice and potentially promote maladaptive behaviour. Here we use rats that
differ in the incentive motivational properties they attribute to food cues to
probe the role of the neurotransmitter dopamine in stimulus-reward learning. We
show that intact dopamine transmission is not required for all forms of learning 
in which reward cues become effective predictors. Rather, dopamine acts
selectively in a form of stimulus-reward learning in which incentive salience is 
assigned to reward cues. In individuals with a propensity for this form of
learning, reward cues come to powerfully motivate and control behaviour. This
work provides insight into the neurobiology of a form of stimulus-reward learning
that confers increased susceptibility to disorders of impulse control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09588 
PMCID: PMC3058375
PMID: 21150898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature09592.

Experimental niche evolution alters the strength of the diversity–productivity
relationship.

Gravel D(1), Bell T, Barbera C, Bouvier T, Pommier T, Venail P, Mouquet N.

Author information: 
(1)Université du Québec à Rimouski, Département de Biologie, Chimie et
Géographie, 300 Allée des Ursulines, Québec G5L 3A1, Canada.
dominique_gravel@uqar.qc.ca

The relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning (BEF) has become 
a cornerstone of community and ecosystem ecology and an essential criterion for
making decisions in conservation biology and policy planning. It has recently
been proposed that evolutionary history should influence the BEF relationship
because it determines species traits and, thus, species’ ability to exploit
resources. Here we test this hypothesis by combining experimental evolution with 
a BEF experiment. We isolated 20 bacterial strains from a marine environment and 
evolved each to be generalists or specialists. We then tested the effect of
evolutionary history on the strength of the BEF relationship with assemblages of 
1 to 20 species constructed from the specialists, generalists and ancestors.
Assemblages of generalists were more productive on average because of their
superior ability to exploit the environmental heterogeneity. The slope of the BEF
relationship was, however, stronger for the specialist assemblages because of
enhanced niche complementarity. These results show how the BEF relationship
depends critically on the legacy of past evolutionary events.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09592 
PMID: 21131946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature09603. Epub 2010 Nov 28.

Telomerase reactivation reverses tissue degeneration in aged telomerase-deficient
mice.

Jaskelioff M(1), Muller FL, Paik JH, Thomas E, Jiang S, Adams AC, Sahin E,
Kost-Alimova M, Protopopov A, Cadiñanos J, Horner JW, Maratos-Flier E, Depinho
RA.

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science and Departments of Medical
Oncology, Medicine and Genetics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2011 Jan 7;8(1):3-4.

An ageing world population has fuelled interest in regenerative remedies that may
stem declining organ function and maintain fitness. Unanswered is whether
elimination of intrinsic instigators driving age-associated degeneration can
reverse, as opposed to simply arrest, various afflictions of the aged. Such
instigators include progressively damaged genomes. Telomerase-deficient mice have
served as a model system to study the adverse cellular and organismal
consequences of wide-spread endogenous DNA damage signalling activation in vivo. 
Telomere loss and uncapping provokes progressive tissue atrophy, stem cell
depletion, organ system failure and impaired tissue injury responses. Here, we
sought to determine whether entrenched multi-system degeneration in adult mice
with severe telomere dysfunction can be halted or possibly reversed by
reactivation of endogenous telomerase activity. To this end, we engineered a
knock-in allele encoding a 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT)-inducible telomerase
reverse transcriptase-oestrogen receptor (TERT-ER) under transcriptional control 
of the endogenous TERT promoter. Homozygous TERT-ER mice have short dysfunctional
telomeres and sustain increased DNA damage signalling and classical degenerative 
phenotypes upon successive generational matings and advancing age. Telomerase
reactivation in such late generation TERT-ER mice extends telomeres, reduces DNA 
damage signalling and associated cellular checkpoint responses, allows resumption
of proliferation in quiescent cultures, and eliminates degenerative phenotypes
across multiple organs including testes, spleens and intestines. Notably, somatic
telomerase reactivation reversed neurodegeneration with restoration of
proliferating Sox2(+) neural progenitors, Dcx(+) newborn neurons, and Olig2(+)
oligodendrocyte populations. Consistent with the integral role of subventricular 
zone neural progenitors in generation and maintenance of olfactory bulb
interneurons, this wave of telomerase-dependent neurogenesis resulted in
alleviation of hyposmia and recovery of innate olfactory avoidance responses.
Accumulating evidence implicating telomere damage as a driver of age-associated
organ decline and disease risk and the marked reversal of systemic degenerative
phenotypes in adult mice observed here support the development of regenerative
strategies designed to restore telomere integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09603 
PMCID: PMC3057569
PMID: 21113150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature09635. Epub 2010 Nov 28.

Reversing EphB2 depletion rescues cognitive functions in Alzheimer model.

Cissé M(1), Halabisky B, Harris J, Devidze N, Dubal DB, Sun B, Orr A, Lotz G, Kim
DH, Hamto P, Ho K, Yu GQ, Mucke L.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, San Francisco, California 94158, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):44-5.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2011 Feb;7(2):62.

Amyloid-β oligomers may cause cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease by
impairing neuronal NMDA-type glutamate receptors, whose function is regulated by 
the receptor tyrosine kinase EphB2. Here we show that amyloid-β oligomers bind to
the fibronectin repeats domain of EphB2 and trigger EphB2 degradation in the
proteasome. To determine the pathogenic importance of EphB2 depletions in
Alzheimer's disease and related models, we used lentiviral constructs to reduce
or increase neuronal expression of EphB2 in memory centres of the mouse brain. In
nontransgenic mice, knockdown of EphB2 mediated by short hairpin RNA reduced NMDA
receptor currents and impaired long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus, which
are important for memory formation. Increasing EphB2 expression in the dentate
gyrus of human amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice reversed deficits in
NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation and memory impairments. Thus,
depletion of EphB2 is critical in amyloid-β-induced neuronal dysfunction.
Increasing EphB2 levels or function could be beneficial in Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09635 
PMCID: PMC3030448
PMID: 21113149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Nature. 2011 Jan 6;469(7328):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature09616. Epub 2010 Nov 17.

Formation, regulation and evolution of Caenorhabditis elegans 3'UTRs.

Jan CH(1), Friedman RC, Ruby JG, Bartel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.

Post-transcriptional gene regulation frequently occurs through elements in mRNA
3' untranslated regions (UTRs). Although crucial roles for 3'UTR-mediated gene
regulation have been found in Caenorhabditis elegans, most C. elegans genes have 
lacked annotated 3'UTRs. Here we describe a high-throughput method for reliable
identification of polyadenylated RNA termini, and we apply this method, called
poly(A)-position profiling by sequencing (3P-Seq), to determine C. elegans
3'UTRs. Compared to standard methods also recently applied to C. elegans UTRs,
3P-Seq identified 8,580 additional UTRs while excluding thousands of shorter UTR 
isoforms that do not seem to be authentic. Analysis of this expanded and
corrected data set suggested that the high A/U content of C. elegans 3'UTRs
facilitated genome compaction, because the elements specifying cleavage and
polyadenylation, which are A/U rich, can more readily emerge in A/U-rich regions.
Indeed, 30% of the protein-coding genes have mRNAs with alternative, partially
overlapping end regions that generate another 10,480 cleavage and polyadenylation
sites that had gone largely unnoticed and represent potential evolutionary
intermediates of progressive UTR shortening. Moreover, a third of the
convergently transcribed genes use palindromic arrangements of bidirectional
elements to specify UTRs with convergent overlap, which also contributes to
genome compaction by eliminating regions between genes. Although nematode 3'UTRs 
have median length only one-sixth that of mammalian 3'UTRs, they have twice the
density of conserved microRNA sites, in part because additional types of
seed-complementary sites are preferentially conserved. These findings reveal the 
influence of cleavage and polyadenylation on the evolution of genome architecture
and provide resources for studying post-transcriptional gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature09616 
PMCID: PMC3057491
PMID: 21085120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

