
1. Nature. 2013 Feb 7;494(7435):121-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11774. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

ATP-directed capture of bioactive herbal-based medicine on human tRNA synthetase.

Zhou H(1), Sun L, Yang XL, Schimmel P.

Author information: 
(1)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, Department of Molecular Biology,
The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Febrifugine is the active component of the Chinese herb Chang Shan (Dichroa
febrifuga Lour.), which has been used for treating malaria-induced fever for
about 2,000 years. Halofuginone (HF), the halogenated derivative of febrifugine, 
has been tested in clinical trials for potential therapeutic applications in
cancer and fibrotic disease. Recently, HF was reported to inhibit T(H)17 cell
differentiation by activating the amino acid response pathway, through inhibiting
human prolyl-transfer RNA synthetase (ProRS) to cause intracellular accumulation 
of uncharged tRNA. Curiously, inhibition requires the presence of unhydrolysed
ATP. Here we report an unusual 2.0 Å structure showing that ATP directly locks
onto and orients two parts of HF onto human ProRS, so that one part of HF mimics 
bound proline and the other mimics the 3' end of bound tRNA. Thus, HF is a new
type of ATP-dependent inhibitor that simultaneously occupies two different
substrate binding sites on ProRS. Moreover, our structure indicates a possible
similar mechanism of action for febrifugine in malaria treatment. Finally, the
elucidation here of a two-site modular targeting activity of HF raises the
possibility that substrate-directed capture of similar inhibitors might be a
general mechanism that could be applied to other synthetases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11774 
PMCID: PMC3569068
PMID: 23263184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2013 Feb 7;494(7435):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11748. Epub 2012 Dec 16.

Suppression of neuroinflammation by astrocytic dopamine D2 receptors via
αB-crystallin.

Shao W(1), Zhang SZ, Tang M, Zhang XH, Zhou Z, Yin YQ, Zhou QB, Huang YY, Liu YJ,
Wawrousek E, Chen T, Li SB, Xu M, Zhou JN, Hu G, Zhou JW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031,
China.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 Feb;13(2):69.

Chronic neuroinflammation is a common feature of the ageing brain and some
neurodegenerative disorders. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms
underlying the regulation of innate immunity in the central nervous system remain
elusive. Here we show that the astrocytic dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) modulates
innate immunity through αB-crystallin (CRYAB), which is known to suppress
neuroinflammation. We demonstrate that knockout mice lacking Drd2 showed
remarkable inflammatory response in multiple central nervous system regions and
increased the vulnerability of nigral dopaminergic neurons to neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced neurotoxicity.
Astrocytes null for Drd2 became hyper-responsive to immune stimuli with a marked 
reduction in the level of CRYAB. Preferential ablation of Drd2 in astrocytes
robustly activated astrocytes in the substantia nigra. Gain- or loss-of-function 
studies showed that CRYAB is critical for DRD2-mediated modulation of innate
immune response in astrocytes. Furthermore, treatment of wild-type mice with the 
selective DRD2 agonist quinpirole increased resistance of the nigral dopaminergic
neurons to MPTP through partial suppression of inflammation. Our study indicates 
that astrocytic DRD2 activation normally suppresses neuroinflammation in the
central nervous system through a CRYAB-dependent mechanism, and provides a new
strategy for targeting the astrocyte-mediated innate immune response in the
central nervous system during ageing and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11748 
PMID: 23242137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):694-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11779. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Identification of small RNA pathway genes using patterns of phylogenetic
conservation and divergence.

Tabach Y(1), Billi AC, Hayes GD, Newman MA, Zuk O, Gabel H, Kamath R, Yacoby K,
Chapman B, Garcia SM, Borowsky M, Kim JK, Ruvkun G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Genetic and biochemical analyses of RNA interference (RNAi) and microRNA (miRNA) 
pathways have revealed proteins such as Argonaute and Dicer as essential
cofactors that process and present small RNAs to their targets. Well-validated
small RNA pathway cofactors such as these show distinctive patterns of
conservation or divergence in particular animal, plant, fungal and protist
species. We compared 86 divergent eukaryotic genome sequences to discern sets of 
proteins that show similar phylogenetic profiles with known small RNA cofactors. 
A large set of additional candidate small RNA cofactors have emerged from
functional genomic screens for defects in miRNA- or short interfering RNA
(siRNA)-mediated repression in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila
melanogaster, and from proteomic analyses of proteins co-purifying with validated
small RNA pathway proteins. The phylogenetic profiles of many of these candidate 
small RNA pathway proteins are similar to those of known small RNA cofactor
proteins. We used a Bayesian approach to integrate the phylogenetic profile
analysis with predictions from diverse transcriptional coregulation and proteome 
interaction data sets to assign a probability for each protein for a role in a
small RNA pathway. Testing high-confidence candidates from this analysis for
defects in RNAi silencing, we found that about one-half of the predicted small
RNA cofactors are required for RNAi silencing. Many of the newly identified small
RNA pathway proteins are orthologues of proteins implicated in RNA splicing. In
support of a deep connection between the mechanism of RNA splicing and
small-RNA-mediated gene silencing, the presence of the Argonaute proteins and
other small RNA components in the many species analysed strongly correlates with 
the number of introns in those species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11779 
PMCID: PMC3762460
PMID: 23364702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):679-83. doi: 10.1038/nature11745. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Regulation of mTORC1 by the Rag GTPases is necessary for neonatal autophagy and
survival.

Efeyan A(1), Zoncu R, Chang S, Gumper I, Snitkin H, Wolfson RL, Kirak O, Sabatini
DD, Sabatini DM.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

The mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) pathway regulates
organismal growth in response to many environmental cues, including nutrients and
growth factors. Cell-based studies showed that mTORC1 senses amino acids through 
the RagA-D family of GTPases (also known as RRAGA, B, C and D), but their
importance in mammalian physiology is unknown. Here we generate knock-in mice
that express a constitutively active form of RagA (RagA(GTP)) from its endogenous
promoter. RagA(GTP/GTP) mice develop normally, but fail to survive postnatal day 
1. When delivered by Caesarean section, fasted RagA(GTP/GTP) neonates die almost 
twice as rapidly as wild-type littermates. Within an hour of birth, wild-type
neonates strongly inhibit mTORC1, which coincides with profound hypoglycaemia and
a decrease in plasma amino-acid concentrations. In contrast, mTORC1 inhibition
does not occur in RagA(GTP/GTP) neonates, despite identical reductions in blood
nutrient amounts. With prolonged fasting, wild-type neonates recover their plasma
glucose concentrations, but RagA(GTP/GTP) mice remain hypoglycaemic until death, 
despite using glycogen at a faster rate. The glucose homeostasis defect
correlates with the inability of fasted RagA(GTP/GTP) neonates to trigger
autophagy and produce amino acids for de novo glucose production. Because
profound hypoglycaemia does not inhibit mTORC1 in RagA(GTP/GTP) neonates, we
considered the possibility that the Rag pathway signals glucose as well as
amino-acid sufficiency to mTORC1. Indeed, mTORC1 is resistant to glucose
deprivation in RagA(GTP/GTP) fibroblasts, and glucose, like amino acids, controls
its recruitment to the lysosomal surface, the site of mTORC1 activation. Thus,
the Rag GTPases signal glucose and amino-acid concentrations to mTORC1, and have 
an unexpectedly key role in neonates in autophagy induction and thus nutrient
homeostasis and viability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11745 
PMCID: PMC4000705
PMID: 23263183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):684-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11738. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Visualization of splenic marginal zone B-cell shuttling and follicular B-cell
egress.

Arnon TI(1), Horton RM, Grigorova IL, Cyster JG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

The splenic marginal zone is a unique microenvironment where resident immune
cells are exposed to the open blood circulation. Even though it has an important 
role in responses against blood-borne antigens, lymphocyte migration in the
marginal zone has not been intravitally visualized due to challenges associated
with achieving adequate imaging depth in this abdominal organ. Here we develop a 
two-photon microscopy procedure to study marginal zone and follicular B-cell
movement in the live mouse spleen. We show that marginal zone B cells are highly 
motile and exhibit long membrane extensions. Marginal zone B cells shuttle
between the marginal zone and follicles with at least one-fifth of the cells
exchanging between compartments per hour, a behaviour that explains their ability
to deliver antigens rapidly from the open blood circulation to the secluded
follicles. Follicular B cells also transit from follicles to the marginal zone,
but unlike marginal zone B cells, they fail to undergo integrin-mediated
adhesion, become caught in fluid flow and are carried into the red pulp.
Follicular B-cell egress via the marginal zone is sphingosine-1-phosphate
receptor-1 (S1PR1)-dependent. This study shows that marginal zone B cells migrate
continually between marginal zone and follicles and establishes the marginal zone
as a site of S1PR1-dependent B-cell exit from follicles. The results also show
how adhesive differences of similar cells critically influence their behaviour in
the same microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11738 
PMCID: PMC3561487
PMID: 23263181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):632-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11800. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Nuclear genome transfer in human oocytes eliminates mitochondrial DNA variants.

Paull D(1), Emmanuele V, Weiss KA, Treff N, Stewart L, Hua H, Zimmer M, Kahler
DJ, Goland RS, Noggle SA, Prosser R, Hirano M, Sauer MV, Egli D.

Author information: 
(1)The New York Stem Cell Foundation Laboratory, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Mitochondrial DNA mutations transmitted maternally within the oocyte cytoplasm
often cause life-threatening disorders. Here we explore the use of nuclear genome
transfer between unfertilized oocytes of two donors to prevent the transmission
of mitochondrial mutations. Nuclear genome transfer did not reduce developmental 
efficiency to the blastocyst stage, and genome integrity was maintained provided 
that spontaneous oocyte activation was avoided through the transfer of
incompletely assembled spindle-chromosome complexes. Mitochondrial DNA
transferred with the nuclear genome was initially detected at levels below 1%,
decreasing in blastocysts and stem-cell lines to undetectable levels, and
remained undetectable after passaging for more than one year, clonal expansion,
differentiation into neurons, cardiomyocytes or β-cells, and after cellular
reprogramming. Stem cells and differentiated cells had mitochondrial respiratory 
chain enzyme activities and oxygen consumption rates indistinguishable from
controls. These results demonstrate the potential of nuclear genome transfer to
prevent the transmission of mitochondrial disorders in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11800 
PMID: 23254936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):674-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11729. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

NLRP3 is activated in Alzheimer's disease and contributes to pathology in APP/PS1
mice.

Heneka MT(1), Kummer MP, Stutz A, Delekate A, Schwartz S, Vieira-Saecker A, Griep
A, Axt D, Remus A, Tzeng TC, Gelpi E, Halle A, Korte M, Latz E, Golenbock DT.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neuroscience Unit, Department of Neurology, University of Bonn,
Sigmund-Freud-Strasse 25, 53127 Bonn, Germany. michael.Heneka@ukb.uni-bonn.de

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 Feb;13(2):69.

Alzheimer's disease is the world's most common dementing illness. Deposition of
amyloid-β peptide drives cerebral neuroinflammation by activating microglia.
Indeed, amyloid-β activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome in microglia is
fundamental for interleukin-1β maturation and subsequent inflammatory events.
However, it remains unknown whether NLRP3 activation contributes to Alzheimer's
disease in vivo. Here we demonstrate strongly enhanced active caspase-1
expression in human mild cognitive impairment and brains with Alzheimer's
disease, suggesting a role for the inflammasome in this neurodegenerative
disease. Nlrp3(-/-) or Casp1(-/-) mice carrying mutations associated with
familial Alzheimer's disease were largely protected from loss of spatial memory
and other sequelae associated with Alzheimer's disease, and demonstrated reduced 
brain caspase-1 and interleukin-1β activation as well as enhanced amyloid-β
clearance. Furthermore, NLRP3 inflammasome deficiency skewed microglial cells to 
an M2 phenotype and resulted in the decreased deposition of amyloid-β in the
APP/PS1 model of Alzheimer's disease. These results show an important role for
the NLRP3/caspase-1 axis in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and suggest 
that NLRP3 inflammasome inhibition represents a new therapeutic intervention for 
the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11729 
PMCID: PMC3812809
PMID: 23254930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11647. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

Towards germline gene therapy of inherited mitochondrial diseases.

Tachibana M(1), Amato P, Sparman M, Woodward J, Sanchis DM, Ma H, Gutierrez NM,
Tippner-Hedges R, Kang E, Lee HS, Ramsey C, Masterson K, Battaglia D, Lee D, Wu
D, Jensen J, Patton P, Gokhale S, Stouffer R, Mitalipov S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Reproductive & Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate
Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 NW 185th Avenue,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Dec;13(12):750.

Mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are associated with severe human diseases 
and are maternally inherited through the egg's cytoplasm. Here we investigated
the feasibility of mtDNA replacement in human oocytes by spindle transfer (ST;
also called spindle-chromosomal complex transfer). Of 106 human oocytes donated
for research, 65 were subjected to reciprocal ST and 33 served as controls.
Fertilization rate in ST oocytes (73%) was similar to controls (75%); however, a 
significant portion of ST zygotes (52%) showed abnormal fertilization as
determined by an irregular number of pronuclei. Among normally fertilized ST
zygotes, blastocyst development (62%) and embryonic stem cell isolation (38%)
rates were comparable to controls. All embryonic stem cell lines derived from ST 
zygotes had normal euploid karyotypes and contained exclusively donor mtDNA. The 
mtDNA can be efficiently replaced in human oocytes. Although some ST oocytes
displayed abnormal fertilization, remaining embryos were capable of developing to
blastocysts and producing embryonic stem cells similar to controls.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11647 
PMCID: PMC3561483
PMID: 23103867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):526-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11696. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Insights into bilaterian evolution from three spiralian genomes.

Simakov O(1), Marletaz F, Cho SJ, Edsinger-Gonzales E, Havlak P, Hellsten U, Kuo 
DH, Larsson T, Lv J, Arendt D, Savage R, Osoegawa K, de Jong P, Grimwood J,
Chapman JA, Shapiro H, Aerts A, Otillar RP, Terry AY, Boore JL, Grigoriev IV,
Lindberg DR, Seaver EC, Weisblat DA, Putnam NH, Rokhsar DS.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstraße 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Current genomic perspectives on animal diversity neglect two prominent phyla, the
molluscs and annelids, that together account for nearly one-third of known marine
species and are important both ecologically and as experimental systems in
classical embryology. Here we describe the draft genomes of the owl limpet
(Lottia gigantea), a marine polychaete (Capitella teleta) and a freshwater leech 
(Helobdella robusta), and compare them with other animal genomes to investigate
the origin and diversification of bilaterians from a genomic perspective. We find
that the genome organization, gene structure and functional content of these
species are more similar to those of some invertebrate deuterostome genomes (for 
example, amphioxus and sea urchin) than those of other protostomes that have been
sequenced to date (flies, nematodes and flatworms). The conservation of these
genomic features enables us to expand the inventory of genes present in the last 
common bilaterian ancestor, establish the tripartite diversification of
bilaterians using multiple genomic characteristics and identify ancient conserved
long- and short-range genetic linkages across metazoans. Superimposed on this
broadly conserved pan-bilaterian background we find examples of lineage-specific 
genome evolution, including varying rates of rearrangement, intron gain and loss,
expansions and contractions of gene families, and the evolution of clade-specific
genes that produce the unique content of each genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11696 
PMCID: PMC4085046
PMID: 23254933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):542-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11743. Epub 2012 Dec 16.

Serine starvation induces stress and p53-dependent metabolic remodelling in
cancer cells.

Maddocks OD(1), Berkers CR, Mason SM, Zheng L, Blyth K, Gottlieb E, Vousden KH.

Author information: 
(1)The Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Switchback Road, Glasgow G61 1BD,
UK.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2013 Feb 5;17(2):159-61.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2013 Feb;13(2):77.

Cancer cells acquire distinct metabolic adaptations to survive stress associated 
with tumour growth and to satisfy the anabolic demands of proliferation. The
tumour suppressor protein p53 (also known as TP53) influences a range of cellular
metabolic processes, including glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation,
glutaminolysis and anti-oxidant response. In contrast to its role in promoting
apoptosis during DNA-damaging stress, p53 can promote cell survival during
metabolic stress, a function that may contribute not only to tumour suppression
but also to non-cancer-associated functions of p53. Here we show that human
cancer cells rapidly use exogenous serine and that serine deprivation triggered
activation of the serine synthesis pathway and rapidly suppressed aerobic
glycolysis, resulting in an increased flux to the tricarboxylic acid cycle.
Transient p53-p21 (also known as CDKN1A) activation and cell-cycle arrest
promoted cell survival by efficiently channelling depleted serine stores to
glutathione synthesis, thus preserving cellular anti-oxidant capacity. Cells
lacking p53 failed to complete the response to serine depletion, resulting in
oxidative stress, reduced viability and severely impaired proliferation. The role
of p53 in supporting cancer cell proliferation under serine starvation was
translated to an in vivo model, indicating that serine depletion has a potential 
role in the treatment of p53-deficient tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11743 
PMID: 23242140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):532-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11713. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

Rapid regulation of depression-related behaviours by control of midbrain dopamine
neurons.

Chaudhury D(1), Walsh JJ, Friedman AK, Juarez B, Ku SM, Koo JW, Ferguson D, Tsai 
HC, Pomeranz L, Christoffel DJ, Nectow AR, Ekstrand M, Domingos A, Mazei-Robison 
MS, Mouzon E, Lobo MK, Neve RL, Friedman JM, Russo SJ, Deisseroth K, Nestler EJ, 
Han MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Systems Therapeutics, Friedman Brain Institute,
Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons in the brain's reward circuit have 
a crucial role in mediating stress responses, including determining
susceptibility versus resilience to social-stress-induced behavioural
abnormalities. VTA dopamine neurons show two in vivo patterns of firing: low
frequency tonic firing and high frequency phasic firing. Phasic firing of the
neurons, which is well known to encode reward signals, is upregulated by repeated
social-defeat stress, a highly validated mouse model of depression. Surprisingly,
this pathophysiological effect is seen in susceptible mice only, with no apparent
change in firing rate in resilient individuals. However, direct evidence--in real
time--linking dopamine neuron phasic firing in promoting the susceptible
(depression-like) phenotype is lacking. Here we took advantage of the temporal
precision and cell-type and projection-pathway specificity of optogenetics to
show that enhanced phasic firing of these neurons mediates susceptibility to
social-defeat stress in freely behaving mice. We show that optogenetic induction 
of phasic, but not tonic, firing in VTA dopamine neurons of mice undergoing a
subthreshold social-defeat paradigm rapidly induced a susceptible phenotype as
measured by social avoidance and decreased sucrose preference. Optogenetic phasic
stimulation of these neurons also quickly induced a susceptible phenotype in
previously resilient mice that had been subjected to repeated social-defeat
stress. Furthermore, we show differences in projection-pathway specificity in
promoting stress susceptibility: phasic activation of VTA neurons projecting to
the nucleus accumbens (NAc), but not to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC),
induced susceptibility to social-defeat stress. Conversely, optogenetic
inhibition of the VTA-NAc projection induced resilience, whereas inhibition of
the VTA-mPFC projection promoted susceptibility. Overall, these studies reveal
novel firing-pattern- and neural-circuit-specific mechanisms of depression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11713 
PMCID: PMC3554860
PMID: 23235832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11714. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

Apoptotic cell clearance by bronchial epithelial cells critically influences
airway inflammation.

Juncadella IJ(1), Kadl A, Sharma AK, Shim YM, Hochreiter-Hufford A, Borish L,
Ravichandran KS.

Author information: 
(1)Carter Immunology Center, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 Mar;13(3):157.

Lung epithelial cells can influence immune responses to airway allergens. Airway 
epithelial cells also undergo apoptosis after encountering environmental
allergens; yet, relatively little is known about how these are cleared, and their
effect on airway inflammation. Here we show that airway epithelial cells
efficiently engulf apoptotic epithelial cells and secrete anti-inflammatory
cytokines, dependent upon intracellular signalling by the small GTPase Rac1.
Inducible deletion of Rac1 expression specifically in airway epithelial cells in 
a mouse model resulted in defective engulfment by epithelial cells and aberrant
anti-inflammatory cytokine production. Intranasal priming and challenge of these 
mice with house dust mite extract or ovalbumin as allergens led to exacerbated
inflammation, augmented Th2 cytokines and airway hyper-responsiveness, with
decreased interleukin (IL)-10 in bronchial lavages. Rac1-deficient epithelial
cells produced much higher IL-33 upon allergen or apoptotic cell encounter, with 
increased numbers of nuocyte-like cells. Administration of exogenous IL-10
'rescued' the airway inflammation phenotype in Rac1-deficient mice, with
decreased IL-33. Collectively, these genetic and functional studies suggest a new
role for Rac1-dependent engulfment by airway epithelial cells and in establishing
the anti-inflammatory environment, and that defects in cell clearance in the
airways could contribute to inflammatory responses towards common allergens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11714 
PMCID: PMC3662023
PMID: 23235830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):495-500. doi: 10.1038/nature11775. Epub 2012 Dec
12.

LTP requires a reserve pool of glutamate receptors independent of subunit type.

Granger AJ(1), Shi Y, Lu W, Cerpas M, Nicoll RA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California San Francisco,
California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):482-3.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2013 Feb;14(2):80-1.

Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission is thought to be an
important cellular mechanism underlying memory formation. A widely accepted model
posits that LTP requires the cytoplasmic carboxyl tail (C-tail) of the AMPA
(α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) receptor subunit GluA1.
To find the minimum necessary requirement of the GluA1 C-tail for LTP in mouse
CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons, we used a single-cell molecular replacement
strategy to replace all endogenous AMPA receptors with transfected subunits. In
contrast to the prevailing model, we found no requirement of the GluA1 C-tail for
LTP. In fact, replacement with the GluA2 subunit showed normal LTP, as did an
artificially expressed kainate receptor not normally found at these synapses. The
only conditions under which LTP was impaired were those with markedly decreased
AMPA receptor surface expression, indicating a requirement for a reserve pool of 
receptors. These results demonstrate the synapse's remarkable flexibility to
potentiate with a variety of glutamate receptor subtypes, requiring a fundamental
change in our thinking with regard to the core molecular events underlying
synaptic plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11775 
PMCID: PMC3998843
PMID: 23235828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):522-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11698. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

Earliest evidence for cheese making in the sixth millennium BC in northern
Europe.

Salque M(1), Bogucki PI, Pyzel J, Sobkowiak-Tabaka I, Grygiel R, Szmyt M,
Evershed RP.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Geochemistry Unit, School of Chemistry, University of Bristol,
Cantock's Close, Bristol BS8 1TS, UK.

The introduction of dairying was a critical step in early agriculture, with milk 
products being rapidly adopted as a major component of the diets of prehistoric
farmers and pottery-using late hunter-gatherers. The processing of milk,
particularly the production of cheese, would have been a critical development
because it not only allowed the preservation of milk products in a non-perishable
and transportable form, but also it made milk a more digestible commodity for
early prehistoric farmers. The finding of abundant milk residues in pottery
vessels from seventh millennium sites from north-western Anatolia provided the
earliest evidence of milk processing, although the exact practice could not be
explicitly defined. Notably, the discovery of potsherds pierced with small holes 
appear at early Neolithic sites in temperate Europe in the sixth millennium BC
and have been interpreted typologically as 'cheese-strainers', although a direct 
association with milk processing has not yet been demonstrated. Organic residues 
preserved in pottery vessels have provided direct evidence for early milk use in 
the Neolithic period in the Near East and south-eastern Europe, north Africa,
Denmark and the British Isles, based on the δ(13)C and Δ(13)C values of the major
fatty acids in milk. Here we apply the same approach to investigate the function 
of sieves/strainer vessels, providing direct chemical evidence for their use in
milk processing. The presence of abundant milk fat in these specialized vessels, 
comparable in form to modern cheese strainers, provides compelling evidence for
the vessels having being used to separate fat-rich milk curds from the
lactose-containing whey. This new evidence emphasizes the importance of pottery
vessels in processing dairy products, particularly in the manufacture of
reduced-lactose milk products among lactose-intolerant prehistoric farming
communities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11698 
PMID: 23235824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):537-541. doi: 10.1038/nature11740. Epub 2012 Dec
12.

Dopamine neurons modulate neural encoding and expression of depression-related
behaviour.

Tye KM(#)(1)(2), Mirzabekov JJ(#)(2), Warden MR(#)(2), Ferenczi EA(2)(3), Tsai
HC(2)(3), Finkelstein J(2), Kim SY(2)(3), Adhikari A(2), Thompson KR(2), Andalman
AS(2), Gunaydin LA(2), Witten IB(2), Deisseroth K(2)(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Brain and Cognitive Sciences,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.
(3)Neurosciences Program, Stanford University, Stanford California 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(5)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University, Stanford California
94305, USA.
(6)CNC Program, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Major depression is characterized by diverse debilitating symptoms that include
hopelessness and anhedonia. Dopamine neurons involved in reward and motivation
are among many neural populations that have been hypothesized to be relevant, and
certain antidepressant treatments, including medications and brain stimulation
therapies, can influence the complex dopamine system. Until now it has not been
possible to test this hypothesis directly, even in animal models, as existing
therapeutic interventions are unable to specifically target dopamine neurons.
Here we investigated directly the causal contributions of defined dopamine
neurons to multidimensional depression-like phenotypes induced by chronic mild
stress, by integrating behavioural, pharmacological, optogenetic and
electrophysiological methods in freely moving rodents. We found that
bidirectional control (inhibition or excitation) of specified midbrain dopamine
neurons immediately and bidirectionally modulates (induces or relieves) multiple 
independent depression symptoms caused by chronic stress. By probing the circuit 
implementation of these effects, we observed that optogenetic recruitment of
these dopamine neurons potently alters the neural encoding of depression-related 
behaviours in the downstream nucleus accumbens of freely moving rodents,
suggesting that processes affecting depression symptoms may involve alterations
in the neural encoding of action in limbic circuitry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11740 
PMCID: PMC4160519
PMID: 23235822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):561-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11742. Epub 2012 Dec 9.

TET2 promotes histone O-GlcNAcylation during gene transcription.

Chen Q(1), Chen Y, Bian C, Fujiki R, Yu X.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2013 Feb;14(2):64-5.
    Mol Cell. 2013 Feb 21;49(4):618-9.

Ten eleven translocation (TET) enzymes, including TET1, TET2 and TET3, convert
5-methylcytosine to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine and regulate gene transcription.
However, the molecular mechanism by which TET family enzymes regulate gene
transcription remains elusive. Using protein affinity purification, here we
search for functional partners of TET proteins, and find that TET2 and TET3
associate with O-linked β-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT), an
enzyme that by itself catalyses the addition of O-GlcNAc onto serine and
threonine residues (O-GlcNAcylation) in vivo. TET2 directly interacts with OGT,
which is important for the chromatin association of OGT in vivo. Although this
specific interaction does not regulate the enzymatic activity of TET2, it
facilitates OGT-dependent histone O-GlcNAcylation. Moreover, OGT associates with 
TET2 at transcription start sites. Downregulation of TET2 reduces the amount of
histone 2B Ser 112 GlcNAc marks in vivo, which are associated with gene
transcription regulation. Taken together, these results reveal a TET2-dependent
O-GlcNAcylation of chromatin. The double epigenetic modifications on both DNA and
histones by TET2 and OGT coordinate together for the regulation of gene
transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11742 
PMCID: PMC3684361
PMID: 23222540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 2013 Jan 24;493(7433):557-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11716. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

RNAi triggered by specialized machinery silences developmental genes and
retrotransposons.

Yamanaka S(1), Mehta S, Reyes-Turcu FE, Zhuang F, Fuchs RT, Rong Y, Robb GB,
Grewal SI.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

RNA interference (RNAi) is a conserved mechanism in which small interfering RNAs 
(siRNAs) guide the degradation of cognate RNAs, but also promote heterochromatin 
assembly at repetitive DNA elements such as centromeric repeats. However, the
full extent of RNAi functions and its endogenous targets have not been explored. 
Here we show that, in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, RNAi and
heterochromatin factors cooperate to silence diverse loci, including sexual
differentiation genes, genes encoding transmembrane proteins, and
retrotransposons that are also targeted by the exosome RNA degradation machinery.
In the absence of the exosome, transcripts are processed preferentially by the
RNAi machinery, revealing siRNA clusters and a corresponding increase in
heterochromatin modifications across large domains containing genes and
retrotransposons. We show that the generation of siRNAs and heterochromatin
assembly by RNAi is triggered by a mechanism involving the canonical poly(A)
polymerase Pla1 and an associated RNA surveillance factor Red1, which also
activate the exosome. Notably, siRNA production and heterochromatin modifications
at these target loci are regulated by environmental growth conditions, and by
developmental signals that induce gene expression during sexual differentiation. 
Our analyses uncover an interaction between RNAi and the exosome that is
conserved in Drosophila, and show that differentiation signals modulate RNAi
silencing to regulate developmental genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11716 
PMCID: PMC3554839
PMID: 23151475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):411-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11782. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Exaggerated translation causes synaptic and behavioural aberrations associated
with autism.

Santini E(1), Huynh TN, MacAskill AF, Carter AG, Pierre P, Ruggero D, Kaphzan H, 
Klann E.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2013 Feb;14(2):79.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are an early onset, heterogeneous group of
heritable neuropsychiatric disorders with symptoms that include deficits in
social interaction skills, impaired communication abilities, and ritualistic-like
repetitive behaviours. One of the hypotheses for a common molecular mechanism
underlying ASDs is altered translational control resulting in exaggerated protein
synthesis. Genetic variants in chromosome 4q, which contains the EIF4E locus,
have been described in patients with autism. Importantly, a rare single
nucleotide polymorphism has been identified in autism that is associated with
increased promoter activity in the EIF4E gene. Here we show that genetically
increasing the levels of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) in
mice results in exaggerated cap-dependent translation and aberrant behaviours
reminiscent of autism, including repetitive and perseverative behaviours and
social interaction deficits. Moreover, these autistic-like behaviours are
accompanied by synaptic pathophysiology in the medial prefrontal cortex, striatum
and hippocampus. The autistic-like behaviours displayed by the eIF4E-transgenic
mice are corrected by intracerebroventricular infusions of the cap-dependent
translation inhibitor 4EGI-1. Our findings demonstrate a causal relationship
between exaggerated cap-dependent translation, synaptic dysfunction and aberrant 
behaviours associated with autism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11782 
PMCID: PMC3548017
PMID: 23263185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):424-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11747. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Asymmetric neurotransmitter release enables rapid odour lateralization in
Drosophila.

Gaudry Q(1), Hong EJ, Kain J, de Bivort BL, Wilson RI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, 220 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In Drosophila, most individual olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) project
bilaterally to both sides of the brain. Having bilateral rather than unilateral
projections may represent a useful redundancy. However, bilateral ORN projections
to the brain should also compromise the ability to lateralize odours.
Nevertheless, walking or flying Drosophila reportedly turn towards the antenna
that is more strongly stimulated by odour. Here we show that each ORN spike
releases approximately 40% more neurotransmitter from the axon branch ipsilateral
to the soma than from the contralateral branch. As a result, when an odour
activates the antennae asymmetrically, ipsilateral central neurons begin to spike
a few milliseconds before contralateral neurons, and at a 30 to 50% higher rate
than contralateral neurons. We show that a walking fly can detect a 5% asymmetry 
in total ORN input to its left and right antennal lobes, and can turn towards the
odour in less time than it requires the fly to complete a stride. These results
demonstrate that neurotransmitter release properties can be tuned independently
at output synapses formed by a single axon onto two target cells with identical
functions and morphologies. Our data also show that small differences in spike
timing and spike rate can produce reliable differences in olfactory behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11747 
PMCID: PMC3590906
PMID: 23263180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):365-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11770. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Towards an exact description of electronic wavefunctions in real solids.

Booth GH(1), Grüneis A, Kresse G, Alavi A.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge, Chemistry Department, Lensfield Road, Cambridge CB2
1EW, UK. ghb24@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):314-5.

The properties of all materials arise largely from the quantum mechanics of their
constituent electrons under the influence of the electric field of the nuclei.
The solution of the underlying many-electron Schrödinger equation is a
'non-polynomial hard' problem, owing to the complex interplay of kinetic energy, 
electron-electron repulsion and the Pauli exclusion principle. The dominant
computational method for describing such systems has been density functional
theory. Quantum-chemical methods--based on an explicit ansatz for the
many-electron wavefunctions and, hence, potentially more accurate--have not been 
fully explored in the solid state owing to their computational complexity, which 
ranges from strongly exponential to high-order polynomial in system size. Here we
report the application of an exact technique, full configuration interaction
quantum Monte Carlo to a variety of real solids, providing reference
many-electron energies that are used to rigorously benchmark the standard
hierarchy of quantum-chemical techniques, up to the 'gold standard'
coupled-cluster ansatz, including single, double and perturbative triple
particle-hole excitation operators. We show the errors in cohesive energies
predicted by this method to be small, indicating the potential of this
computationally polynomial scaling technique to tackle current solid-state
problems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11770 
PMID: 23254929 


21. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):406-10. doi: 10.1038/nature11725. Epub 2012 Dec 16.

Mosaic PPM1D mutations are associated with predisposition to breast and ovarian
cancer.

Ruark E(1), Snape K, Humburg P, Loveday C, Bajrami I, Brough R, Rodrigues DN,
Renwick A, Seal S, Ramsay E, Duarte Sdel V, Rivas MA, Warren-Perry M, Zachariou
A, Campion-Flora A, Hanks S, Murray A, Ansari Pour N, Douglas J, Gregory L,
Rimmer A, Walker NM, Yang TP, Adlard JW, Barwell J, Berg J, Brady AF, Brewer C,
Brice G, Chapman C, Cook J, Davidson R, Donaldson A, Douglas F, Eccles D, Evans
DG, Greenhalgh L, Henderson A, Izatt L, Kumar A, Lalloo F, Miedzybrodzka Z,
Morrison PJ, Paterson J, Porteous M, Rogers MT, Shanley S, Walker L, Gore M,
Houlston R, Brown MA, Caufield MJ, Deloukas P, McCarthy MI, Todd JA; Breast and
Ovarian Cancer Susceptibility Collaboration; Wellcome Trust Case Control
Consortium, Turnbull C, Reis-Filho JS, Ashworth A, Antoniou AC, Lord CJ, Donnelly
P, Rahman N.

Collaborators: Aerts J, Ahmad T, Arbury H, Attwood A, Auton A, Ball SG, Balmforth
AJ, Barnes C, Barrett JC, Barroso I, Barton A, Bennett AJ, Bhaskar S, Blaszczyk
K, Bowes J, Brand OJ, Braund PS, Bredin F, Breen G, Brown MJ, Bruce IN, Bull J,
Burren OS, Burton J, Byrnes J, Caesar S, Cardin N, Clee CM, Coffey AJ, Connell
JM, Conrad DF, Cooper JD, Dominiczak AF, Downes K, Drummond HE, Dudakia D, Dunham
A, Ebbs B, Eccles D, Edkins S, Edwards C, Elliot A, Emery P, Evans DM, Evans G,
Eyre S, Farmer A, Ferrier IN, Flynn E, Forbes A, Forty L, Franklyn JA, Frayling
TM, Freathy RM, Giannoulatou E, Gilbert P, Gordon-Smith K, Gray E, Green E,
Groves CJ, Grozeva D, Gwilliam R, Hammond N, Hardy M, Harrison P, Hassanali N,
Hebaishi H, Hines S, Hinks A, Hitman GA, Hocking L, Holmes C, Howard E, Howard P,
Howson JM, Hughes D, Hunt S, Isaacs JD, Jain M, Jewell DP, Johnson T, Jolley JD, 
Jones IR, Jones LA, Kirov G, Langford CF, Lango-Allen H, Lathrop GM, Lee J, Lee
KL, Lees C, Lewis K, Lindgren CM, Maisuria-Armer M, Maller J, Mansfield J,
Marchini JL, Martin P, Massey DC, McArdle WL, McGuffin P, McLay KE, McVean G,
Mentzer A, Mimmack ML, Morgan AE, Morris AP, Mowat C, Munroe PB, Myers S, Newman 
W, Nimmo ER, O'Donovan MC, Onipinla A, Ovington NR, Owen MJ, Palin K, Palotie A, 
Parnell K, Pearson R, Perry JR, Phillips A, Plagnol V, Prescott NJ, Prokopenko I,
Quail MA, Rafelt S, Rayner NW, Reid DM, Renwick A, Ring SM, Robertson N, Robson
S, Russell E, St Clair D, Sambrook JG, Sanderson JD, Sawcer SJ, Schuilenburg H,
Scott CE, Seal S, Shaw-Hawkins S, Shields BM, Simmonds MJ, Smyth DJ,
Somaskantharajah E, Spanova K, Steer S, Stephens J, Stevens HE, Stirrups K, Stone
MA, Strachan DP, Su Z, Symmons DP, Thompson JR, Thomson W, Tobin MD, Travers ME, 
Turnbull C, Vukcevic D, Wain LV, Walker M, Walker NM, Wallace C, Warren-Perry M, 
Watkins NA, Webster J, Weedon MN, Wilson AG, Woodburn M, Wordsworth BP, Yau C,
Young AH, Zeggini E, Brown MA, Burton PR, Caulfield MJ, Compston A, Farrall M,
Gough SC, Hall AS, Hattersley AT, Hill AV, Mathew CG, Pembrey M, Satsangi J,
Stratton MR, Worthington J, Hurles ME, Duncanson A, Ouwehand WH, Parkes M, Rahman
N, Todd JA, Samani NJ, Kwiatkowski DP, McCarthy MI, Craddock N, Deloukas P,
Donnelly P, Ardern-Jones A, Adlard J, Ahmed M, Attard G, Bailey K, Bancroft E,
Bardsley C, Barton D, Bartlett M, Barwell J, Baxter L, Belk R, Berg J, Bernhard
B, Bishop T, Boyes L, Bradshaw N, Brady AF, Brant S, Brewer C, Brice G, Bromilow 
G, Brooks C, Bruce A, Bulman B, Burgess L, Campbell J, Canham N, Castle B,
Cetnarskyj R, Chapman C, Claber O, Coates N, Cole T, Collins A, Cook J, Coulson
S, Crawford G, Cruger D, Cummings C, D'Mello L, Davidson R, Day L, Dell B,
Dolling C, Donaldson A, Dorkins H, Douglas F, Downing S, Drummond S, Dubras C,
Dunlop J, Durrell S, Eccles D, Eddy C, Edwards M, Edwards E, Edwardson J, Eeles
R, Ellis I, Elmslie F, Evans G, Gibbons B, Gardiner C, Ghali N, Giblin C, Gibson 
S, Goff S, Goodman S, Goudie D, Greenhalgh L, Grier J, Gregory H, Halliday S,
Hardy R, Hartigan C, Heaton T, Henderson A, Higgins C, Hodgson S, Homfray T,
Horrigan D, Houghton C, Houlston RS, Hughes L, Hunt V, Irvine L, Izatt L, Jacobs 
C, James S, James M, Jeffers L, Jobson I, Jones W, Kennedy MJ, Kenwrick S,
Kightley C, Kirk C, Kirk E, Kivuva E, Kohut K, Kosicka-Slawinska M, Kulkarni A,
Kumar A, Lalloo F, Lambord N, Langman C, Leonard P, Levene S, Locker S, Logan P, 
Longmuir M, Lucassen A, Lyus V, Magee A, Male A, Mansour S, McBride D, McCann E, 
McConnell V, McEntagart M, McKeown C, McLeish L, McLeod D, Melville A, Mercer L, 
Mercer C, Miedzybrodzka Z, Mitra A, Morrison P, Murday V, Murray A, Myhill K,
Myring J, O'Hara E, Paterson J, Pearson P, Pichert G, Platt K, Porteous M,
Pottinger C, Price S, Protheroe L, Pugh S, Quarrell O, Randhawa K, Riddick C,
Robertson L, Robinson A, Roffey-Johnson V, Rogers M, Rose S, Rowe S, Schofield A,
Rahman N, Saya S, Scott G, Scott J, Searle A, Shanley S, Sharif S, Shaw A, Shaw
J, Shea-Simonds J, Side L, Sillibourne J, Simon K, Simpson S, Slater S, Smalley
S, Smith K, Snadden L, Snape K, Soloway J, Stait Y, Stayner B, Steel M, Steel C, 
Stewart H, Stirling D, Thomas M, Thomas S, Tomkins S, Turner H, Vandersteen A,
Wakeling E, Waldrup F, Walker L, Watt C, Watts S, Webber A, Whyte C, Wiggins J,
Williams E, Winchester L.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics & Epidemiology, The Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton 
SM2 5NG, UK.

Improved sequencing technologies offer unprecedented opportunities for
investigating the role of rare genetic variation in common disease. However,
there are considerable challenges with respect to study design, data analysis and
replication. Using pooled next-generation sequencing of 507 genes implicated in
the repair of DNA in 1,150 samples, an analytical strategy focused on
protein-truncating variants (PTVs) and a large-scale sequencing case-control
replication experiment in 13,642 individuals, here we show that rare PTVs in the 
p53-inducible protein phosphatase PPM1D are associated with predisposition to
breast cancer and ovarian cancer. PPM1D PTV mutations were present in 25 out of
7,781 cases versus 1 out of 5,861 controls (P = 1.12 × 10(-5)), including 18
mutations in 6,912 individuals with breast cancer (P = 2.42 × 10(-4)) and 12
mutations in 1,121 individuals with ovarian cancer (P = 3.10 × 10(-9)). Notably, 
all of the identified PPM1D PTVs were mosaic in lymphocyte DNA and clustered
within a 370-base-pair region in the final exon of the gene, carboxy-terminal to 
the phosphatase catalytic domain. Functional studies demonstrate that the
mutations result in enhanced suppression of p53 in response to ionizing radiation
exposure, suggesting that the mutant alleles encode hyperactive PPM1D isoforms.
Thus, although the mutations cause premature protein truncation, they do not
result in the simple loss-of-function effect typically associated with this class
of variant, but instead probably have a gain-of-function effect. Our results have
implications for the detection and management of breast and ovarian cancer risk. 
More generally, these data provide new insights into the role of rare and of
mosaic genetic variants in common conditions, and the use of sequencing in their 
identification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11725 
PMCID: PMC3759028
PMID: 23242139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):429-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11723. Epub 2012 Dec 16.

Bacteriophage genes that inactivate the CRISPR/Cas bacterial immune system.

Bondy-Denomy J(1), Pawluk A, Maxwell KL, Davidson AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 
1A8, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2013 Feb;11(2):72.

A widespread system used by bacteria for protection against potentially dangerous
foreign DNA molecules consists of the clustered regularly interspaced short
palindromic repeats (CRISPR) coupled with cas (CRISPR-associated) genes. Similar 
to RNA interference in eukaryotes, these CRISPR/Cas systems use small RNAs for
sequence-specific detection and neutralization of invading genomes. Here we
describe the first examples of genes that mediate the inhibition of a CRISPR/Cas 
system. Five distinct 'anti-CRISPR' genes were found in the genomes of
bacteriophages infecting Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Mutation of the anti-CRISPR gene
of a phage rendered it unable to infect bacteria with a functional CRISPR/Cas
system, and the addition of the same gene to the genome of a CRISPR/Cas-targeted 
phage allowed it to evade the CRISPR/Cas system. Phage-encoded anti-CRISPR genes 
may represent a widespread mechanism for phages to overcome the highly prevalent 
CRISPR/Cas systems. The existence of anti-CRISPR genes presents new avenues for
the elucidation of CRISPR/Cas functional mechanisms and provides new insight into
the co-evolution of phages and bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11723 
PMCID: PMC4931913
PMID: 23242138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):433-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11682. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Mammalian heart renewal by pre-existing cardiomyocytes.

Senyo SE(1), Steinhauser ML, Pizzimenti CL, Yang VK, Cai L, Wang M, Wu TD,
Guerquin-Kern JL, Lechene CP, Lee RT.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Although recent studies have revealed that heart cells are generated in adult
mammals, the frequency of generation and the source of new heart cells are not
yet known. Some studies suggest a high rate of stem cell activity with
differentiation of progenitors to cardiomyocytes. Other studies suggest that new 
cardiomyocytes are born at a very low rate, and that they may be derived from the
division of pre-existing cardiomyocytes. Here we show, by combining two different
pulse-chase approaches--genetic fate-mapping with stable isotope labelling, and
multi-isotope imaging mass spectrometry--that the genesis of cardiomyocytes
occurs at a low rate by the division of pre-existing cardiomyocytes during normal
ageing, a process that increases adjacent to areas of myocardial injury. We found
that cell cycle activity during normal ageing and after injury led to polyploidy 
and multinucleation, but also to new diploid, mononucleate cardiomyocytes. These 
data reveal pre-existing cardiomyocytes as the dominant source of cardiomyocyte
replacement in normal mammalian myocardial homeostasis as well as after
myocardial injury.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11682 
PMCID: PMC3548046
PMID: 23222518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):371-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11628. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Autism-related deficits via dysregulated eIF4E-dependent translational control.

Gkogkas CG(1), Khoutorsky A, Ran I, Rampakakis E, Nevarko T, Weatherill DB,
Vasuta C, Yee S, Truitt M, Dallaire P, Major F, Lasko P, Ruggero D, Nader K,
Lacaille JC, Sonenberg N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Goodman Cancer Research Centre, McGill
University, Montreal, Quebec H3A 1A3, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2013 Jan;12(1):21.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2013 Feb;14(2):79.

Hyperconnectivity of neuronal circuits due to increased synaptic protein
synthesis is thought to cause autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). The mammalian
target of rapamycin (mTOR) is strongly implicated in ASDs by means of upstream
signalling; however, downstream regulatory mechanisms are ill-defined. Here we
show that knockout of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding
protein 2 (4E-BP2)-an eIF4E repressor downstream of mTOR-or eIF4E overexpression 
leads to increased translation of neuroligins, which are postsynaptic proteins
that are causally linked to ASDs. Mice that have the gene encoding 4E-BP2
(Eif4ebp2) knocked out exhibit an increased ratio of excitatory to inhibitory
synaptic inputs and autistic-like behaviours (that is, social interaction
deficits, altered communication and repetitive/stereotyped behaviours).
Pharmacological inhibition of eIF4E activity or normalization of neuroligin 1,
but not neuroligin 2, protein levels restores the normal excitation/inhibition
ratio and rectifies the social behaviour deficits. Thus, translational control by
eIF4E regulates the synthesis of neuroligins, maintaining the
excitation-to-inhibition balance, and its dysregulation engenders ASD-like
phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11628 
PMCID: PMC4133997
PMID: 23172145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 2013 Jan 17;493(7432):437-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11715. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Structure and function of the initially transcribing RNA polymerase II-TFIIB
complex.

Sainsbury S(1), Niesser J, Cramer P.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Center and Department of Biochemistry, Center for Integrated Protein
Science CIPSM, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Feodor-Lynen-Str. 25,
81377 Munich, Germany.

The general transcription factor (TF) IIB is required for RNA polymerase (Pol) II
initiation and extends with its B-reader element into the Pol II active centre
cleft. Low-resolution structures of the Pol II-TFIIB complex indicated how TFIIB 
functions in DNA recruitment, but they lacked nucleic acids and half of the
B-reader, leaving other TFIIB functions enigmatic. Here we report crystal
structures of the Pol II-TFIIB complex from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae at
3.4 Å resolution and of an initially transcribing complex that additionally
contains the DNA template and a 6-nucleotide RNA product. The structures reveal
the entire B-reader and protein-nucleic acid interactions, and together with
functional data lead to a more complete understanding of transcription
initiation. TFIIB partially closes the polymerase cleft to position DNA and
assist in its opening. The B-reader does not reach the active site but binds the 
DNA template strand upstream to assist in the recognition of the initiator
sequence and in positioning the transcription start site. TFIIB rearranges
active-site residues, induces binding of the catalytic metal ion B, and
stimulates initial RNA synthesis allosterically. TFIIB then prevents the emerging
DNA-RNA hybrid duplex from tilting, which would impair RNA synthesis. When the
RNA grows beyond 6 nucleotides, it is separated from DNA and is directed to its
exit tunnel by the B-reader loop. Once the RNA grows to 12-13 nucleotides, it
clashes with TFIIB, triggering TFIIB displacement and elongation complex
formation. Similar mechanisms may underlie all cellular transcription because all
eukaryotic and archaeal RNA polymerases use TFIIB-like factors, and the bacterial
initiation factor sigma has TFIIB-like topology and contains the loop region 3.2 
that resembles the B-reader loop in location, charge and function. TFIIB and its 
counterparts may thus account for the two fundamental properties that distinguish
RNA from DNA polymerases: primer-independent chain initiation and product
separation from the template.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11715 
PMID: 23151482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):200-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11710. Epub 2012 Dec 23.

Topological colloids.

Senyuk B(1), Liu Q, He S, Kamien RD, Kusner RB, Lubensky TC, Smalyukh II.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):168.

Smoke, fog, jelly, paints, milk and shaving cream are common everyday examples of
colloids, a type of soft matter consisting of tiny particles dispersed in
chemically distinct host media. Being abundant in nature, colloids also find
increasingly important applications in science and technology, ranging from
direct probing of kinetics in crystals and glasses to fabrication of
third-generation quantum-dot solar cells. Because naturally occurring colloids
have a shape that is typically determined by minimization of interfacial tension 
(for example, during phase separation) or faceted crystal growth, their surfaces 
tend to have minimum-area spherical or topologically equivalent shapes such as
prisms and irregular grains (all continuously deformable--homeomorphic--to
spheres). Although toroidal DNA condensates and vesicles with different numbers
of handles can exist and soft matter defects can be shaped as rings and knots,
the role of particle topology in colloidal systems remains unexplored. Here we
fabricate and study colloidal particles with different numbers of handles and
genus g ranging from 1 to 5. When introduced into a nematic liquid crystal--a
fluid made of rod-like molecules that spontaneously align along the so-called
'director'--these particles induce three-dimensional director fields and
topological defects dictated by colloidal topology. Whereas electric fields,
photothermal melting and laser tweezing cause transformations between
configurations of particle-induced structures, three-dimensional nonlinear
optical imaging reveals that topological charge is conserved and that the total
charge of particle-induced defects always obeys predictions of the Gauss-Bonnet
and Poincaré-Hopf index theorems. This allows us to establish and experimentally 
test the procedure for assignment and summation of topological charges in
three-dimensional director fields. Our findings lay the groundwork for new
applications of colloids and liquid crystals that range from topological memory
devices, through new types of self-assembly, to the experimental study of
low-dimensional topology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11710 
PMID: 23263182 


27. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):175-80. doi: 10.1038/nature11794. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Craniofacial development of hagfishes and the evolution of vertebrates.

Oisi Y(1), Ota KG, Kuraku S, Fujimoto S, Kuratani S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe
657-8501, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):169-70.

Cyclostomes, the living jawless vertebrates including hagfishes and lampreys,
represent the most basal lineage of vertebrates. Although the monophyly of
cyclostomes has been supported by recent molecular analyses, the phenotypic
traits of hagfishes, especially the lack of some vertebrate-defining features and
the reported endodermal origin of the adenohypophysis, have been interpreted as
hagfishes exhibiting a more ancestral state than those of all other vertebrates. 
Furthermore, the adult anatomy of hagfishes cannot be compared easily with that
of lampreys. Here we describe the craniofacial development of a series of staged 
hagfish embryos, which shows that their adenohypophysis arises ectodermally,
consistent with the molecular phylogenetic data. This finding also allowed us to 
identify a pan-cyclostome pattern, one not shared by jawed vertebrates.
Comparative analyses indicated that many of the hagfish-specific traits can be
explained by changes secondarily introduced into the hagfish lineage. We also
propose a possibility that the pan-cyclostome pattern may reflect the ancestral
programme for the craniofacial development of all living vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11794 
PMID: 23254938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):187-90. doi: 10.1038/nature11697. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

Bright radio emission from an ultraluminous stellar-mass microquasar in M 31.

Middleton MJ(1), Miller-Jones JC, Markoff S, Fender R, Henze M, Hurley-Walker N, 
Scaife AM, Roberts TP, Walton D, Carpenter J, Macquart JP, Bower GC, Gurwell M,
Pietsch W, Haberl F, Harris J, Daniel M, Miah J, Done C, Morgan JS, Dickinson H, 
Charles P, Burwitz V, Della Valle M, Freyberg M, Greiner J, Hernanz M, Hartmann
DH, Hatzidimitriou D, Riffeser A, Sala G, Seitz S, Reig P, Rau A, Orio M,
Titterington D, Grainge K.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department, University of Durham, Durham DH1 3LE, UK.
m.j.middleton@durham.ac.uk

A subset of ultraluminous X-ray sources (those with luminosities of less than
10(40) erg s(-1); ref. 1) are thought to be powered by the accretion of gas onto 
black holes with masses of ∼5-20M cicled dot, probably by means of an accretion
disk. The X-ray and radio emission are coupled in such Galactic sources; the
radio emission originates in a relativistic jet thought to be launched from the
innermost regions near the black hole, with the most powerful emission occurring 
when the rate of infalling matter approaches a theoretical maximum (the Eddington
limit). Only four such maximal sources are known in the Milky Way, and the
absorption of soft X-rays in the interstellar medium hinders the determination of
the causal sequence of events that leads to the ejection of the jet. Here we
report radio and X-ray observations of a bright new X-ray source in the nearby
galaxy M 31, whose peak luminosity exceeded 10(39) erg s(-1). The radio
luminosity is extremely high and shows variability on a timescale of tens of
minutes, arguing that the source is highly compact and powered by accretion close
to the Eddington limit onto a black hole of stellar mass. Continued radio and
X-ray monitoring of such sources should reveal the causal relationship between
the accretion flow and the powerful jet emission.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11697 
PMID: 23235823 


29. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):255-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11684. Epub 2012 Dec 9.

Structure of the proton-gated urea channel from the gastric pathogen Helicobacter
pylori.

Strugatsky D(1), McNulty R, Munson K, Chen CK, Soltis SM, Sachs G, Luecke H.

Author information: 
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Greater
West Los Angeles Health Care System, Los Angeles, California 90073, USA.

Half the world's population is chronically infected with Helicobacter pylori,
causing gastritis, gastric ulcers and an increased incidence of gastric
adenocarcinoma. Its proton-gated inner-membrane urea channel, HpUreI, is
essential for survival in the acidic environment of the stomach. The channel is
closed at neutral pH and opens at acidic pH to allow the rapid access of urea to 
cytoplasmic urease. Urease produces NH(3) and CO(2), neutralizing entering
protons and thus buffering the periplasm to a pH of roughly 6.1 even in gastric
juice at a pH below 2.0. Here we report the structure of HpUreI, revealing six
protomers assembled in a hexameric ring surrounding a central bilayer plug of
ordered lipids. Each protomer encloses a channel formed by a twisted bundle of
six transmembrane helices. The bundle defines a previously unobserved fold
comprising a two-helix hairpin motif repeated three times around the central axis
of the channel, without the inverted repeat of mammalian-type urea transporters. 
Both the channel and the protomer interface contain residues conserved in the
AmiS/UreI superfamily, suggesting the preservation of channel architecture and
oligomeric state in this superfamily. Predominantly aromatic or aliphatic side
chains line the entire channel and define two consecutive constriction sites in
the middle of the channel. Mutation of Trp 153 in the cytoplasmic constriction
site to Ala or Phe decreases the selectivity for urea in comparison with
thiourea, suggesting that solute interaction with Trp 153 contributes
specificity. The previously unobserved hexameric channel structure described here
provides a new model for the permeation of urea and other small amide solutes in 
prokaryotes and archaea.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11684 
PMCID: PMC3974264
PMID: 23222544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11685. Epub 2012 Dec 9.

Drosophila NOMPC is a mechanotransduction channel subunit for gentle-touch
sensation.

Yan Z(1), Zhang W, He Y, Gorczyca D, Xiang Y, Cheng LE, Meltzer S, Jan LY, Jan
YN.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Physiology, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 May 6;23(9):R349-51.

Touch sensation is essential for behaviours ranging from environmental
exploration to social interaction; however, the underlying mechanisms are largely
unknown. In Drosophila larvae, two types of sensory neurons, class III and class 
IV dendritic arborization neurons, tile the body wall. The mechanotransduction
channel PIEZO in class IV neurons is essential for sensing noxious mechanical
stimuli but is not involved in gentle touch. On the basis of
electrophysiological-recording, calcium-imaging and behavioural studies, here we 
report that class III dendritic arborization neurons are touch sensitive and
contribute to gentle-touch sensation. We further identify NOMPC (No
mechanoreceptor potential C), a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) 
family of ion channels, as a mechanotransduction channel for gentle touch. NOMPC 
is highly expressed in class III neurons and is required for their
mechanotransduction. Moreover, ectopic NOMPC expression confers touch sensitivity
to the normally touch-insensitive class IV neurons. In addition to the critical
role of NOMPC in eliciting gentle-touch-mediated behavioural responses,
expression of this protein in the Drosophila S2 cell line also gives rise to
mechanosensitive channels in which ion selectivity can be altered by NOMPC
mutation, indicating that NOMPC is a pore-forming subunit of a
mechanotransduction channel. Our study establishes NOMPC as a bona fide
mechanotransduction channel that satisfies all four criteria proposed for a
channel to qualify as a transducer of mechanical stimuli and mediates
gentle-touch sensation. Our study also suggests that different mechanosensitive
channels may be used to sense gentle touch versus noxious mechanical stimuli.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11685 
PMCID: PMC3917554
PMID: 23222543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):181-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11744. Epub 2012 Dec 9.

Crystallographic snapshot of cellulose synthesis and membrane translocation.

Morgan JL(1), Strumillo J, Zimmer J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Membrane Biology, Department of Molecular Physiology and Biological
Physics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Cellulose, the most abundant biological macromolecule, is an extracellular,
linear polymer of glucose molecules. It represents an essential component of
plant cell walls but is also found in algae and bacteria. In bacteria, cellulose 
production frequently correlates with the formation of biofilms, a sessile,
multicellular growth form. Cellulose synthesis and transport across the inner
bacterial membrane is mediated by a complex of the membrane-integrated catalytic 
BcsA subunit and the membrane-anchored, periplasmic BcsB protein. Here we present
the crystal structure of a complex of BcsA and BcsB from Rhodobacter sphaeroides 
containing a translocating polysaccharide. The structure of the BcsA-BcsB
translocation intermediate reveals the architecture of the cellulose synthase,
demonstrates how BcsA forms a cellulose-conducting channel, and suggests a model 
for the coupling of cellulose synthesis and translocation in which the nascent
polysaccharide is extended by one glucose molecule at a time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11744 
PMCID: PMC3542415
PMID: 23222542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):231-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11661. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

Control of somatic tissue differentiation by the long non-coding RNA TINCR.

Kretz M(1), Siprashvili Z, Chu C, Webster DE, Zehnder A, Qu K, Lee CS, Flockhart 
RJ, Groff AF, Chow J, Johnston D, Kim GE, Spitale RC, Flynn RA, Zheng GX, Aiyer
S, Raj A, Rinn JL, Chang HY, Khavari PA.

Author information: 
(1)The Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Several of the thousands of human long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been
functionally characterized; however, potential roles for lncRNAs in somatic
tissue differentiation remain poorly understood. Here we show that a 3.7-kilobase
lncRNA, terminal differentiation-induced ncRNA (TINCR), controls human epidermal 
differentiation by a post-transcriptional mechanism. TINCR is required for high
messenger RNA abundance of key differentiation genes, many of which are mutated
in human skin diseases, including FLG, LOR, ALOXE3, ALOX12B, ABCA12, CASP14 and
ELOVL3. TINCR-deficient epidermis lacked terminal differentiation ultrastructure,
including keratohyalin granules and intact lamellar bodies. Genome-scale RNA
interactome analysis revealed that TINCR interacts with a range of
differentiation mRNAs. TINCR-mRNA interaction occurs through a 25-nucleotide
'TINCR box' motif that is strongly enriched in interacting mRNAs and required for
TINCR binding. A high-throughput screen to analyse TINCR binding capacity to
approximately 9,400 human recombinant proteins revealed direct binding of TINCR
RNA to the staufen1 (STAU1) protein. STAU1-deficient tissue recapitulated the
impaired differentiation seen with TINCR depletion. Loss of UPF1 and UPF2, both
of which are required for STAU1-mediated RNA decay, however, did not have
differentiation effects. Instead, the TINCR-STAU1 complex seems to mediate
stabilization of differentiation mRNAs, such as KRT80. These data identify TINCR 
as a key lncRNA required for somatic tissue differentiation, which occurs through
lncRNA binding to differentiation mRNAs to ensure their expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11661 
PMCID: PMC3674581
PMID: 23201690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):216-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11690. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Analysis of 6,515 exomes reveals the recent origin of most human protein-coding
variants.

Fu W(1), O'Connor TD, Jun G, Kang HM, Abecasis G, Leal SM, Gabriel S, Rieder MJ, 
Altshuler D, Shendure J, Nickerson DA, Bamshad MJ; NHLBI Exome Sequencing
Project, Akey JM.

Collaborators: Gabriel SB, Altshuler DM, Gonçalo R A, Allayee H, Cresci S, Daly
MJ, de Bakker PI, DePristo MA, Do R, Donnelly P, Farlow DN, Fennell T, Garimella 
K, Hazen SL, Hu Y, Jordan DM, Jun G, Kathiresan S, Kang HM, Kiezun A, Lettre G,
Li B, Li M, Newton-Cheh CH, Padmanabhan S, Peloso G, Pulit S, Rader DJ, Reich D, 
Reilly MP, Rivas MA, Schwartz S, Hutchinson F, Scott L, Siscovick DS, Spertus JA,
Stitziel NO, Stoletzki N, Sunyaev SR, Voight BF, Willer CJ, Rich SS, Akylbekova
E, Atwood LD, Ballantyne CM, Barbalic M, Barr R, Benjamin EJ, Bis J, Boerwinkle
E, Bowden DW, Brody J, Budoff M, Burke G, Buxbaum S, Carr J, Chen DT, Chen IY,
Chen WM, Concannon P, Crosby J, Cupples LA, D'Agostino R, DeStefano AL, Dreisbach
A, Dupuis J, Durda J, Ellis J, Folsom AR, Fornage M, Fox CS, Fox E, Funari V,
Ganesh SK, Gardin J, Goff D, Gordon O, Grody W, Gross M, Guo X, Hall IM,
Heard-Costa NL, Heckbert SR, Heintz N, Herrington DM, Hickson D, Huang J, Hwang
SJ, Jacobs DR, Jenny NS, Johnson AD, Johnson CW, Kawut S, Kronmal R, Kurz R,
Lange EM, Lange LA, Larson M, Lawson M, Lewis CE, Levy D, Li D, Lin H, Liu C, Liu
J, Liu K, Liu X, Liu Y, Longstreth WT, Loria C, Lumley T, Lunetta K, Mackey AJ,
Mackey R, Manichaikul A, Maxwell T, McKnight B, Meigs JB, Morrison AC, Musani SK,
Mychaleckyj JC, Nettleton JA, North K, O'Donnell CJ, O'Leary D, Ong F, Palmas W, 
Pankow JS, Pankratz ND, Paul S, Perez M, Person SD, Polak J, Post WS, Psaty BM,
Quinlan AR, Raffel LJ, Ramachandran VS, Reiner AP, Rice K, Rotter JI, Sanders JP,
Schreiner P, Seshadri S, Shea S, Sidney S, Silverstein K, Siscovick DS, Smith NL,
Sotoodehnia N, Srinivasan A, Taylor HA, Taylor K, Thomas F, Tracy RP, Tsai MY,
Volcik KA, Wassel CL, Watson K, Wei G, White W, Wiggins KL, Wilk JB, Williams O, 
Wilson G, Wilson JG, Wolf P, Zakai NA, Hardy J, Meschia JF, Nalls M, Rich SS,
Singleton A, Worrall B, Bamshad MJ, Barnes KC, Abdulhamid I, Accurso F, Anbar R, 
Beaty T, Bigham A, Black P, Bleecker E, Buckingham K, Cairns AM, Chen WM, Caplan 
D, Chatfield B, Chidekel A, Cho M, Christiani DC, Crapo JD, Crouch J, Daley D,
Dang A, Dang H, De Paula A, DeCelie-Germana J, Dozor A, Drumm M, Dyson M, Emerson
J, Emond MJ, Ferkol T, Fink R, Foster C, Froh D, Gao L, Gershan W, Gibson RL,
Godwin E, Gondor M, Gutierrez H, Hansel NN, Hassoun PM, Hiatt P, Hokanson JE,
Howenstine M, Hummer LK, Kanga J, Kim Y, Knowles MR, Konstan M, Lahiri T, Laird
N, Lange C, Lin L, Lin X, Louie TL, Lynch D, Make B, Martin TR, Mathai SC,
Mathias RA, McNamara J, McNamara S, Meyers D, Millard S, Mogayzel P, Moss R,
Murray T, Nielson D, Noyes B, O'Neal W, Orenstein D, O'Sullivan B, Pace R, Pare
P, Parker H, Passero MA, Perkett E, Prestridge A, Rafaels NM, Ramsey B, Regan E, 
Ren C, Retsch-Bogart G, Rock M, Rosen A, Rosenfeld M, Ruczinski I, Sanford A,
Schaeffer D, Sell C, Sheehan D, Silverman EK, Sin D, Spencer T, Stonebraker J,
Tabor HK, Varlotta L, Vergara CI, Weiss R, Wigley F, Wise RA, Wright FA, Wurfel
MM, Zanni R, Zou F, Nickerson DA, Rieder MJ, Green P, Shendure J, Akey JM,
Bamshad MJ, Bustamante CD, Crosslin DR, Eichler EE, Fox PK, Fu W, Gordon A,
Gravel S, Jarvik GP, Johnsen JM, Kan M, Kenny EE, Kidd JM, Lara-Garduno F, Leal
SM, Liu DJ, McGee S, O'Connor TD, Paeper B, Robertson PD, Smith JD, Tennessen JA,
Turner EH, Wang G, Jackson R, North K, Peters U, Carlson CS, Anderson G,
Anton-Culver H, Assimes TL, Auer PL, Hutchinson F, Beresford S, Hutchinson F,
Bizon C, Black H, Brunner R, Brzyski R, Burwen D, Caan B, Carty CL, Chlebowski R,
Cummings S, Curb JD, Eaton CB, Ford L, Franceschini N, Fullerton SM, Gass M,
Geller N, Heiss G, Howard BV, Hsu L, Hutter CM, Ioannidis J, Jiao S, Johnson KC, 
Kooperberg C, Kuller L, LaCroix A, Lakshminarayan K, Lane D, Lange EM, Lange LA, 
Lasser N, LeBlanc E, Lewis CE, Li KP, Limacher M, Lin DY, Logsdon BA, Ludlam S,
Manson JE, Margolis K, Martin L, McGowan J, Monda KL, Kotchen JM, Nathan L,
Ockene J, O'Sullivan MJ, Phillips LS, Prentice RL, Reiner AP, Hutchinson F,
Robbins J, Robinson JG, Rossouw JE, Sangi-Haghpeykar H, Sarto GE, Shumaker S,
Simon MS, Stefanick ML, Stein E, Tang H, Taylor KC, Thomson CA, Thornton TA, Van 
Horn L, Vitolins M, Wactawski-Wende J, Wallace R, Wassertheil-Smoller S, Zeng D, 
Applebaum-Bowden D, Feolo M, Gan W, Paltoo DN, Rossouw JE, Sholinsky P, Sturcke
A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA. wqfu@u.washington.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Mar 14;495(7440):270. Rieder, Mark J [added].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2013 Jan;14(1):5.

Establishing the age of each mutation segregating in contemporary human
populations is important to fully understand our evolutionary history and will
help to facilitate the development of new approaches for disease-gene discovery. 
Large-scale surveys of human genetic variation have reported signatures of recent
explosive population growth, notable for an excess of rare genetic variants,
suggesting that many mutations arose recently. To more quantitatively assess the 
distribution of mutation ages, we resequenced 15,336 genes in 6,515 individuals
of European American and African American ancestry and inferred the age of
1,146,401 autosomal single nucleotide variants (SNVs). We estimate that
approximately 73% of all protein-coding SNVs and approximately 86% of SNVs
predicted to be deleterious arose in the past 5,000-10,000 years. The average age
of deleterious SNVs varied significantly across molecular pathways, and disease
genes contained a significantly higher proportion of recently arisen deleterious 
SNVs than other genes. Furthermore, European Americans had an excess of
deleterious variants in essential and Mendelian disease genes compared to African
Americans, consistent with weaker purifying selection due to the Out-of-Africa
dispersal. Our results better delimit the historical details of human
protein-coding variation, show the profound effect of recent human history on the
burden of deleterious SNVs segregating in contemporary populations, and provide
important practical information that can be used to prioritize variants in
disease-gene discovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11690 
PMCID: PMC3676746
PMID: 23201682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):226-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11689. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

Metabolic control of adult neural stem cell activity by Fasn-dependent
lipogenesis.

Knobloch M(1), Braun SM, Zurkirchen L, von Schoultz C, Zamboni N, Araúzo-Bravo
MJ, Kovacs WJ, Karalay O, Suter U, Machado RA, Roccio M, Lutolf MP, Semenkovich
CF, Jessberger S.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Zurich, 8057
Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2013 Feb 5;17(2):153-5.

Mechanisms controlling the proliferative activity of neural stem and progenitor
cells (NSPCs) have a pivotal role to ensure life-long neurogenesis in the
mammalian brain. How metabolic programs are coupled with NSPC activity remains
unknown. Here we show that fatty acid synthase (Fasn), the key enzyme of de novo 
lipogenesis, is highly active in adult NSPCs and that conditional deletion of
Fasn in mouse NSPCs impairs adult neurogenesis. The rate of de novo lipid
synthesis and subsequent proliferation of NSPCs is regulated by Spot14, a gene
previously implicated in lipid metabolism, that we found to be selectively
expressed in low proliferating adult NSPCs. Spot14 reduces the availability of
malonyl-CoA, which is an essential substrate for Fasn to fuel lipogenesis. Thus, 
we identify here a functional coupling between the regulation of lipid metabolism
and adult NSPC proliferation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11689 
PMCID: PMC3587167
PMID: 23201681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11674. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

COUP-TFII inhibits TGF-β-induced growth barrier to promote prostate
tumorigenesis.

Qin J(1), Wu SP, Creighton CJ, Dai F, Xie X, Cheng CM, Frolov A, Ayala G, Lin X, 
Feng XH, Ittmann MM, Tsai SJ, Tsai MJ, Tsai SY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2013 Feb;10(2):65.

Mutations in phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) or genomic alterations in
the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase-signalling pathway are the most common
genetic alterations reported in human prostate cancer. However, the precise
mechanism underlying how indolent tumours with PTEN alterations acquire
metastatic potential remains poorly understood. Recent studies suggest that
upregulation of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β signalling triggered by PTEN
loss will form a growth barrier as a defence mechanism to constrain prostate
cancer progression, underscoring that TGF-β signalling might represent a
pre-invasive checkpoint to prevent PTEN-mediated prostate tumorigenesis. Here we 
show that COUP transcription factor II (COUP-TFII, also known as NR2F2), a member
of the nuclear receptor superfamily, serves as a key regulator to inhibit
SMAD4-dependent transcription, and consequently overrides the TGF-β-dependent
checkpoint for PTEN-null indolent tumours. Overexpression of COUP-TFII in the
mouse prostate epithelium cooperates with PTEN deletion to augment malignant
progression and produce an aggressive metastasis-prone tumour. The functional
counteraction between COUP-TFII and SMAD4 is reinforced by genetically engineered
mouse models in which conditional loss of SMAD4 diminishes the inhibitory effects
elicited by COUP-TFII ablation. The biological significance of COUP-TFII in
prostate carcinogenesis is substantiated by patient sample analysis, in which
COUP-TFII expression or activity is tightly correlated with tumour recurrence and
disease progression, whereas it is inversely associated with TGF-β signalling.
These findings reveal that the destruction of the TGF-β-dependent barrier by
COUP-TFII is crucial for the progression of PTEN-mutant prostate cancer into a
life-threatening disease, and supports COUP-TFII as a potential drug target for
the intervention of metastatic human prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11674 
PMCID: PMC4022346
PMID: 23201680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):246-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11676. Epub 2012 Nov 25.

Recombination-restarted replication makes inverted chromosome fusions at inverted
repeats.

Mizuno K(1), Miyabe I, Schalbetter SA, Carr AM, Murray JM.

Author information: 
(1)Genome Damage and Stability Centre, University of Sussex, Brighton, East
Sussex BN1 9RQ, UK.

Impediments to DNA replication are known to induce gross chromosomal
rearrangements (GCRs) and copy-number variations (CNVs). GCRs and CNVs underlie
human genomic disorders and are a feature of cancer. During cancer development,
environmental factors and oncogene-driven proliferation promote replication
stress. Resulting GCRs and CNVs are proposed to contribute to cancer development 
and therapy resistance. When stress arrests replication, the replisome remains
associated with the fork DNA (stalled fork) and is protected by the inter-S-phase
checkpoint. Stalled forks efficiently resume when the stress is relieved.
However, if the polymerases dissociate from the fork (fork collapse) or the fork 
structure breaks (broken fork), replication restart can proceed either by
homologous recombination or microhomology-primed re-initiation. Here we ascertain
the consequences of replication with a fork restarted by homologous recombination
in fission yeast. We identify a new mechanism of chromosomal rearrangement
through the observation that recombination-restarted forks have a considerably
high propensity to execute a U-turn at small inverted repeats (up to 1 in 40
replication events). We propose that the error-prone nature of restarted forks
contributes to the generation of GCRs and gene amplification in cancer, and to
non-recurrent CNVs in genomic disorders.


PMCID: PMC3605775
PMID: 23178809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 2013 Jan 10;493(7431):250-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11630. Epub 2012 Nov 25.

Post-replicative repair involves separase-dependent removal of the kleisin
subunit of cohesin.

McAleenan A(1), Clemente-Blanco A, Cordon-Preciado V, Sen N, Esteras M, Jarmuz A,
Aragón L.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Cycle Group, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College, Du Cane
Road, London W12 0NN, UK.

DNA double-strand break repair is critical for cell viability and involves highly
coordinated pathways to restore DNA integrity at the lesion. An early event
during homology-dependent repair is resection of the break to generate
progressively longer 3' single-strand tails that are used to identify suitable
templates for repair. Sister chromatids provide near-perfect sequence homology
and are therefore the preferred templates during homologous recombination. To
provide a bias for the use of sisters as donors, cohesin--the complex that
tethers sister chromatids together--is recruited to the break to enforce physical
proximity. Here we show that DNA breaks promote dissociation of cohesin loaded
during the previous S phase in budding yeast, and that damage-induced
dissociation of cohesin requires separase, the protease that dissolves cohesion
in anaphase. Moreover, a separase-resistant allele of the gene coding for the
α-kleisin subunit of cohesin, Mcd1 (also known as Scc1), reduces double-strand
break resection and compromises the efficiency of repair even when loaded during 
DNA damage. We conclude that post-replicative DNA repair involves cohesin
dissociation by separase to promote accessibility to repair factors during the
coordinated cellular response to restore DNA integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11630 
PMID: 23178808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):56-61. doi: 10.1038/nature11801. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Structure of a presenilin family intramembrane aspartate protease.

Li X(1), Dang S, Yan C, Gong X, Wang J, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Center for Structural
Biology, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):34-5.

Presenilin and signal peptide peptidase (SPP) are intramembrane aspartyl
proteases that regulate important biological functions in eukaryotes. Mechanistic
understanding of presenilin and SPP has been hampered by lack of relevant
structural information. Here we report the crystal structure of a presenilin/SPP 
homologue (PSH) from the archaeon Methanoculleus marisnigri JR1. The protease,
comprising nine transmembrane segments (TMs), adopts a previously unreported
protein fold. The amino-terminal domain, consisting of TM1-6, forms a
horseshoe-shaped structure, surrounding TM7-9 of the carboxy-terminal domain. The
two catalytic aspartate residues are located on the cytoplasmic side of TM6 and
TM7, spatially close to each other and approximately 8 Å into the lipid membrane 
surface. Water molecules gain constant access to the catalytic aspartates through
a large cavity between the amino- and carboxy-terminal domains. Structural
analysis reveals insights into the presenilin/SPP family of intramembrane
proteases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11801 
PMID: 23254940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):39-44. doi: 10.1038/nature11732. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Non-Fermi-liquid d-wave metal phase of strongly interacting electrons.

Jiang HC(1), Block MS, Mishmash RV, Garrison JR, Sheng DN, Motrunich OI, Fisher
MP.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of California, Santa
Barbara, California 93106, USA.

Developing a theoretical framework for conducting electronic fluids qualitatively
distinct from those described by Landau's Fermi-liquid theory is of central
importance to many outstanding problems in condensed matter physics. One such
problem is that, above the transition temperature and near optimal doping,
high-transition-temperature copper-oxide superconductors exhibit 'strange metal' 
behaviour that is inconsistent with being a traditional Landau Fermi liquid.
Indeed, a microscopic theory of a strange-metal quantum phase could shed new
light on the interesting low-temperature behaviour in the pseudogap regime and on
the d-wave superconductor itself. Here we present a theory for a specific example
of a strange metal--the 'd-wave metal'. Using variational wavefunctions, gauge
theoretic arguments, and ultimately large-scale density matrix renormalization
group calculations, we show that this remarkable quantum phase is the ground
state of a reasonable microscopic Hamiltonian--the usual t-J model with electron 
kinetic energy t and two-spin exchange J supplemented with a frustrated electron 
'ring-exchange' term, which we here examine extensively on the square lattice
two-leg ladder. These findings constitute an explicit theoretical example of a
genuine non-Fermi-liquid metal existing as the ground state of a realistic model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11732 
PMID: 23254935 


40. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):101-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11804. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Scaling of embryonic patterning based on phase-gradient encoding.

Lauschke VM(1), Tsiairis CD, François P, Aulehla A.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, 69117
Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):32-4.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2013 Feb;14(2):80.

A fundamental feature of embryonic patterning is the ability to scale and
maintain stable proportions despite changes in overall size, for instance during 
growth. A notable example occurs during vertebrate segment formation: after
experimental reduction of embryo size, segments form proportionally smaller, and 
consequently, a normal number of segments is formed. Despite decades of
experimental and theoretical work, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. More
recently, ultradian oscillations in gene activity have been linked to the
temporal control of segmentation; however, their implication in scaling remains
elusive. Here we show that scaling of gene oscillation dynamics underlies segment
scaling. To this end, we develop a new experimental model, an ex vivo primary
cell culture assay that recapitulates mouse mesoderm patterning and segment
scaling, in a quasi-monolayer of presomitic mesoderm cells (hereafter termed
monolayer PSM or mPSM). Combined with real-time imaging of gene activity, this
enabled us to quantify the gradual shift in the oscillation phase and thus
determine the resulting phase gradient across the mPSM. Crucially, we show that
this phase gradient scales by maintaining a fixed amplitude across mPSM of
different lengths. We identify the slope of this phase gradient as a single
predictive parameter for segment size, which functions in a size- and
temperature-independent manner, revealing a hitherto unrecognized mechanism for
scaling. Notably, in contrast to molecular gradients, a phase gradient describes 
the distribution of a dynamical cellular state. Thus, our phase-gradient scaling 
findings reveal a new level of dynamic information-processing, and provide
evidence for the concept of phase-gradient encoding during embryonic patterning
and scaling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11804 
PMID: 23254931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):51-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11724. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

CCR5 is a receptor for Staphylococcus aureus leukotoxin ED.

Alonzo F 3rd(1), Kozhaya L, Rawlings SA, Reyes-Robles T, DuMont AL, Myszka DG,
Landau NR, Unutmaz D, Torres VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2013 Feb;12(2):99.

Pore-forming toxins are critical virulence factors for many bacterial pathogens
and are central to Staphylococcus aureus-mediated killing of host cells. S.
aureus encodes pore-forming bi-component leukotoxins that are toxic towards
neutrophils, but also specifically target other immune cells. Despite decades
since the first description of staphylococcal leukocidal activity, the host
factors responsible for the selectivity of leukotoxins towards different immune
cells remain unknown. Here we identify the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
co-receptor CCR5 as a cellular determinant required for cytotoxic targeting of
subsets of myeloid cells and T lymphocytes by the S. aureus leukotoxin ED
(LukED). We further demonstrate that LukED-dependent cell killing is blocked by
CCR5 receptor antagonists, including the HIV drug maraviroc. Remarkably,
CCR5-deficient mice are largely resistant to lethal S. aureus infection,
highlighting the importance of CCR5 targeting in S. aureus pathogenesis. Thus,
depletion of CCR5(+) leukocytes by LukED suggests a new immune evasion mechanism 
of S. aureus that can be therapeutically targeted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11724 
PMCID: PMC3536884
PMID: 23235831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature11777. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

Ediacaran life on land.

Retallack GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon
97403-1272, USA. gregr@uoregon.edu

Comment in
    Evol Dev. 2013 Jul-Aug;15(4):225-7.
    Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):28-9.

Ediacaran (635-542 million years ago) fossils have been regarded as early animal 
ancestors of the Cambrian evolutionary explosion of marine invertebrate phyla, as
giant marine protists and as lichenized fungi. Recent documentation of palaeosols
in the Ediacara Member of the Rawnsley Quartzite of South Australia confirms past
interpretations of lagoonal-aeolian deposition based on synsedimentary
ferruginization and loessic texture. Further evidence for palaeosols comes from
non-marine facies, dilation cracks, soil nodules, sand crystals, stable isotopic 
data and mass balance geochemistry. Here I show that the uppermost surfaces of
the palaeosols have a variety of fossils in growth position, including
Charniodiscus, Dickinsonia, Hallidaya, Parvancorina, Phyllozoon, Praecambridium, 
Rugoconites, Tribrachidium and 'old-elephant skin' (ichnogenus Rivularites).
These fossils were preserved as ferruginous impressions, like plant fossils, and 
biological soil crusts of Phanerozoic eon sandy palaeosols. Sand crystals after
gypsum and nodules of carbonate are shallow within the palaeosols, even after
correcting for burial compaction. Periglacial involutions and modest geochemical 
differentiation of the palaeosols are evidence of a dry, cold temperate Ediacaran
palaeoclimate in South Australia. This new interpretation of some Ediacaran
fossils as large sessile organisms of cool, dry soils, is compatible with
observations that Ediacaran fossils were similar in appearance and preservation
to lichens and other microbial colonies of biological soil crusts, rather than
marine animals, or protists.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11777 
PMID: 23235827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):45-50. doi: 10.1038/nature11711. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Genomic variation landscape of the human gut microbiome.

Schloissnig S(1), Arumugam M, Sunagawa S, Mitreva M, Tap J, Zhu A, Waller A,
Mende DR, Kultima JR, Martin J, Kota K, Sunyaev SR, Weinstock GM, Bork P.

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2013 Feb;14(2):80.

Whereas large-scale efforts have rapidly advanced the understanding and practical
impact of human genomic variation, the practical impact of variation is largely
unexplored in the human microbiome. We therefore developed a framework for
metagenomic variation analysis and applied it to 252 faecal metagenomes of 207
individuals from Europe and North America. Using 7.4 billion reads aligned to 101
reference species, we detected 10.3 million single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs), 107,991 short insertions/deletions, and 1,051 structural variants. The
average ratio of non-synonymous to synonymous polymorphism rates of 0.11 was more
variable between gut microbial species than across human hosts. Subjects sampled 
at varying time intervals exhibited individuality and temporal stability of SNP
variation patterns, despite considerable composition changes of their gut
microbiota. This indicates that individual-specific strains are not easily
replaced and that an individual might have a unique metagenomic genotype, which
may be exploitable for personalized diet or drug intake.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11711 
PMCID: PMC3536929
PMID: 23222524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):70-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11567. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Optical-field-induced current in dielectrics.

Schiffrin A(1), Paasch-Colberg T, Karpowicz N, Apalkov V, Gerster D, Mühlbrandt
S, Korbman M, Reichert J, Schultze M, Holzner S, Barth JV, Kienberger R,
Ernstorfer R, Yakovlev VS, Stockman MI, Krausz F.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany. aschiffr@phas.ubc.ca

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):386-7.

The time it takes to switch on and off electric current determines the rate at
which signals can be processed and sampled in modern information technology.
Field-effect transistors are able to control currents at frequencies of the order
of or higher than 100 gigahertz, but electric interconnects may hamper progress
towards reaching the terahertz (10(12) hertz) range. All-optical injection of
currents through interfering photoexcitation pathways or photoconductive
switching of terahertz transients has made it possible to control electric
current on a subpicosecond timescale in semiconductors. Insulators have been
deemed unsuitable for both methods, because of the need for either ultraviolet
light or strong fields, which induce slow damage or ultrafast breakdown,
respectively. Here we report the feasibility of electric signal manipulation in a
dielectric. A few-cycle optical waveform reversibly increases--free from
breakdown--the a.c. conductivity of amorphous silicon dioxide (fused silica) by
more than 18 orders of magnitude within 1 femtosecond, allowing electric currents
to be driven, directed and switched by the instantaneous light field. Our work
opens the way to extending electronic signal processing and high-speed metrology 
into the petahertz (10(15) hertz) domain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11567 
PMID: 23222521 


45. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):75-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11720. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Controlling dielectrics with the electric field of light.

Schultze M(1), Bothschafter EM, Sommer A, Holzner S, Schweinberger W, Fiess M,
Hofstetter M, Kienberger R, Apalkov V, Yakovlev VS, Stockman MI, Krausz F.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany. martin.schultze@mpq.mpg.de

The control of the electric and optical properties of semiconductors with
microwave fields forms the basis of modern electronics, information processing
and optical communications. The extension of such control to optical frequencies 
calls for wideband materials such as dielectrics, which require strong electric
fields to alter their physical properties. Few-cycle laser pulses permit
damage-free exposure of dielectrics to electric fields of several volts per
ångström and significant modifications in their electronic system. Fields of such
strength and temporal confinement can turn a dielectric from an insulating state 
to a conducting state within the optical period. However, to extend electric
signal control and processing to light frequencies depends on the feasibility of 
reversing these effects approximately as fast as they can be induced. Here we
study the underlying electron processes with sub-femtosecond solid-state
spectroscopy, which reveals the feasibility of manipulating the electronic
structure and electric polarizability of a dielectric reversibly with the
electric field of light. We irradiate a dielectric (fused silica) with a
waveform-controlled near-infrared few-cycle light field of several volts per
angström and probe changes in extreme-ultraviolet absorptivity and near-infrared 
reflectivity on a timescale of approximately a hundred attoseconds to a few
femtoseconds. The field-induced changes follow, in a highly nonlinear fashion,
the turn-on and turn-off behaviour of the driving field, in agreement with the
predictions of a quantum mechanical model. The ultrafast reversibility of the
effects implies that the physical properties of a dielectric can be controlled
with the electric field of light, offering the potential for petahertz-bandwidth 
signal manipulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11720 
PMID: 23222519 


46. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):111-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11699. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

Ca2+ regulates T-cell receptor activation by modulating the charge property of
lipids.

Shi X(1), Bi Y, Yang W, Guo X, Jiang Y, Wan C, Li L, Bai Y, Guo J, Wang Y, Chen
X, Wu B, Sun H, Liu W, Wang J, Xu C.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell 
Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.

Ionic protein-lipid interactions are critical for the structure and function of
membrane receptors, ion channels, integrins and many other proteins. However, the
regulatory mechanism of these interactions is largely unknown. Here we show that 
Ca(2+) can bind directly to anionic phospholipids and thus modulate membrane
protein function. The activation of T-cell antigen receptor-CD3 complex (TCR), a 
key membrane receptor for adaptive immunity, is regulated by ionic interactions
between positively charged CD3ε/ζ cytoplasmic domains (CD3(CD)) and negatively
charged phospholipids in the plasma membrane. Crucial tyrosines are buried in the
membrane and are largely protected from phosphorylation in resting T cells. It is
not clear how CD3(CD) dissociates from the membrane in antigen-stimulated T
cells. The antigen engagement of even a single TCR triggers a Ca(2+) influx and
TCR-proximal Ca(2+) concentration is higher than the average cytosolic Ca(2+)
concentration. Our biochemical, live-cell fluorescence resonance energy transfer 
and NMR experiments showed that an increase in Ca(2+) concentration induced the
dissociation of CD3(CD) from the membrane and the solvent exposure of tyrosine
residues. As a consequence, CD3 tyrosine phosphorylation was significantly
enhanced by Ca(2+) influx. Moreover, when compared with wild-type cells, Ca(2+)
channel-deficient T cells had substantially lower levels of CD3 phosphorylation
after stimulation. The effect of Ca(2+) on facilitating CD3 phosphorylation is
primarily due to the charge of this ion, as demonstrated by the fact that
replacing Ca(2+) with the non-physiological ion Sr(2+) resulted in the same
feedback effect. Finally, (31)P NMR spectroscopy showed that Ca(2+) bound to the 
phosphate group in anionic phospholipids at physiological concentrations, thus
neutralizing the negative charge of phospholipids. Rather than initiating CD3
phosphorylation, this regulatory pathway of Ca(2+) has a positive feedback effect
on amplifying and sustaining CD3 phosphorylation and should enhance T-cell
sensitivity to foreign antigens. Our study thus provides a new regulatory
mechanism of Ca(2+) to T-cell activation involving direct lipid manipulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11699 
PMID: 23201688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):106-10. doi: 10.1038/nature11693. Epub 2012 Nov 25.

Restriction of intestinal stem cell expansion and the regenerative response by
YAP.

Barry ER(1), Morikawa T, Butler BL, Shrestha K, de la Rosa R, Yan KS, Fuchs CS,
Magness ST, Smits R, Ogino S, Kuo CJ, Camargo FD.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Program and Department of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2013 Jan 3;12(1):3-5.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2013 Jan;14(1):4.

A remarkable feature of regenerative processes is their ability to halt
proliferation once an organ's structure has been restored. The Wnt signalling
pathway is the major driving force for homeostatic self-renewal and regeneration 
in the mammalian intestine. However, the mechanisms that counterbalance
Wnt-driven proliferation are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate in mice and
humans that yes-associated protein 1 (YAP; also known as YAP1)--a protein known
for its powerful growth-inducing and oncogenic properties--has an unexpected
growth-suppressive function, restricting Wnt signals during intestinal
regeneration. Transgenic expression of YAP reduces Wnt target gene expression and
results in the rapid loss of intestinal crypts. In addition, loss of YAP results 
in Wnt hypersensitivity during regeneration, leading to hyperplasia, expansion of
intestinal stem cells and niche cells, and formation of ectopic crypts and
microadenomas. We find that cytoplasmic YAP restricts elevated Wnt signalling
independently of the AXIN-APC-GSK-3β complex partly by limiting the activity of
dishevelled (DVL). DVL signals in the nucleus of intestinal stem cells, and its
forced expression leads to enhanced Wnt signalling in crypts. YAP dampens Wnt
signals by restricting DVL nuclear translocation during regenerative growth.
Finally, we provide evidence that YAP is silenced in a subset of highly
aggressive and undifferentiated human colorectal carcinomas, and that its
expression can restrict the growth of colorectal carcinoma xenografts.
Collectively, our work describes a novel mechanistic paradigm for how
proliferative signals are counterbalanced in regenerating tissues. Additionally, 
our findings have important implications for the targeting of YAP in human
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11693 
PMCID: PMC3536889
PMID: 23178811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):116-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11675. Epub 2012 Nov 25.

Coordinated control of replication and transcription by a SAPK protects genomic
integrity.

Duch A(1), Felipe-Abrio I, Barroso S, Yaakov G, García-Rubio M, Aguilera A, de
Nadal E, Posas F.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Signaling Unit, Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de la Salut,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona E-08003, Spain.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 Mar 4;23(5):R200-2.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2013 Jan;14(1):2.

Upon environmental changes or extracellular signals, cells are subjected to
marked changes in gene expression. Dealing with high levels of transcription
during replication is critical to prevent collisions between the transcription
and replication pathways and avoid recombination events. In response to
osmostress, hundreds of stress-responsive genes are rapidly induced by the
stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) Hog1 (ref. 6), even during S phase. Here
we show in Saccharomyces cerevisae that a single signalling molecule, Hog1,
coordinates both replication and transcription upon osmostress. Hog1 interacts
with and phosphorylates Mrc1, a component of the replication complex.
Phosphorylation occurs at different sites to those targeted by Mec1 upon DNA
damage. Mrc1 phosphorylation by Hog1 delays early and late origin firing by
preventing Cdc45 loading, as well as slowing down replication-complex
progression. Regulation of Mrc1 by Hog1 is completely independent of Mec1 and
Rad53. Cells carrying a non-phosphorylatable allele of MRC1 (mrc1(3A)) do not
delay replication upon stress and show a marked increase in
transcription-associated recombination, genomic instability and Rad52 foci. In
contrast, mrc1(3A) induces Rad53 and survival in the presence of hydroxyurea or
methyl methanesulphonate. Therefore, Hog1 and Mrc1 define a novel S-phase
checkpoint independent of the DNA-damage checkpoint that permits eukaryotic cells
to prevent conflicts between DNA replication and transcription, which would
otherwise lead to genomic instability when both phenomena are temporally
coincident.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11675 
PMID: 23178807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):93-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11664. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Convergent acoustic field of view in echolocating bats.

Jakobsen L(1), Ratcliffe JM, Surlykke A.

Author information: 
(1)Sound Communication Group, Institute of Biology, University of Southern
Denmark, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark.

Most echolocating bats exhibit a strong correlation between body size and the
frequency of maximum energy in their echolocation calls (peak frequency), with
smaller species using signals of higher frequency than larger ones. Size-signal
allometry or acoustic detection constraints imposed on wavelength by preferred
prey size have been used to explain this relationship. Here we propose the
hypothesis that smaller bats emit higher frequencies to achieve directional sonar
beams, and that variable beam width is critical for bats. Shorter wavelengths
relative to the size of the emitter translate into more directional sound beams. 
Therefore, bats that emit their calls through their mouths should show a
relationship between mouth size and wavelength, driving smaller bats to signals
of higher frequency. We found that in a flight room mimicking a closed habitat,
six aerial hawking vespertilionid species (ranging in size from 4 to 21 g, ref.
5) produced sonar beams of extraordinarily similar shape and volume. Each species
had a directivity index of 11 ± 1 dB (a half-amplitude angle of approximately
37°) and an on-axis sound level of 108 ± 4 dB sound pressure level referenced to 
20 μPa root mean square at 10 cm. Thus all bats adapted their calls to achieve
similar acoustic fields of view. We propose that the necessity for high
directionality has been a key constraint on the evolution of echolocation, which 
explains the relationship between bat size and echolocation call frequency. Our
results suggest that echolocation is a dynamic system that allows different
species, regardless of their body size, to converge on optimal fields of view in 
response to habitat and task.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11664 
PMID: 23172147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):97-100. doi: 10.1038/nature11665. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Inhibition dominates sensory responses in the awake cortex.

Haider B(1), Häusser M, Carandini M.

Author information: 
(1)UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, 11-43 Bath Street, 
London EC1V 9EL, UK. b.haider@ucl.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Aug 29;500(7464):612.

The activity of the cerebral cortex is thought to depend on the precise
relationship between synaptic excitation and inhibition. In the visual cortex, in
particular, intracellular measurements have related response selectivity to
coordinated increases in excitation and inhibition. These measurements, however, 
have all been made during anaesthesia, which strongly influences cortical state
and therefore sensory processing. The synaptic activity that is evoked by visual 
stimulation during wakefulness is unknown. Here we measured visually evoked
responses--and the underlying synaptic conductances--in the visual cortex of
anaesthetized and awake mice. Under anaesthesia, responses could be elicited from
a large region of visual space and were prolonged. During wakefulness, responses 
were more spatially selective and much briefer. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings
of synaptic conductances showed a difference in synaptic inhibition between the
two conditions. Under anaesthesia, inhibition tracked excitation in amplitude and
spatial selectivity. By contrast, during wakefulness, inhibition was much
stronger than excitation and had extremely broad spatial selectivity. We conclude
that during wakefulness, cortical responses to visual stimulation are dominated
by synaptic inhibition, restricting the spatial spread and temporal persistence
of neural activity. These results provide a direct glimpse of synaptic mechanisms
that control sensory responses in the awake cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11665 
PMCID: PMC3537822
PMID: 23172139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2013 Jan 3;493(7430):120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11658. Epub 2012 Nov 18.

DNA-repair scaffolds dampen checkpoint signalling by counteracting the adaptor
Rad9.

Ohouo PY(1), Bastos de Oliveira FM, Liu Y, Ma CJ, Smolka MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Weill Institute for Cell and
Molecular Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

In response to genotoxic stress, a transient arrest in cell-cycle progression
enforced by the DNA-damage checkpoint (DDC) signalling pathway positively
contributes to genome maintenance. Because hyperactivated DDC signalling can lead
to a persistent and detrimental cell-cycle arrest, cells must tightly regulate
the activity of the kinases involved in this pathway. Despite their importance,
the mechanisms for monitoring and modulating DDC signalling are not fully
understood. Here we show that the DNA-repair scaffolding proteins Slx4 and Rtt107
prevent the aberrant hyperactivation of DDC signalling by lesions that are
generated during DNA replication in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. On replication
stress, cells lacking Slx4 or Rtt107 show hyperactivation of the downstream DDC
kinase Rad53, whereas activation of the upstream DDC kinase Mec1 remains normal. 
An Slx4-Rtt107 complex counteracts the checkpoint adaptor Rad9 by physically
interacting with Dpb11 and phosphorylated histone H2A, two positive regulators of
Rad9-dependent Rad53 activation. A decrease in DDC signalling results from
hypomorphic mutations in RAD53 and H2A and rescues the hypersensitivity to
replication stress of cells lacking Slx4 or Rtt107. We propose that the
Slx4-Rtt107 complex modulates Rad53 activation by a competition-based mechanism
that balances the engagement of Rad9 at replication-induced lesions. Our findings
show that DDC signalling is monitored and modulated through the direct action of 
DNA-repair factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11658 
PMCID: PMC3536934
PMID: 23160493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):423-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11798.

Repeated polyploidization of Gossypium genomes and the evolution of spinnable
cotton fibres.

Paterson AH(1), Wendel JF, Gundlach H, Guo H, Jenkins J, Jin D, Llewellyn D,
Showmaker KC, Shu S, Udall J, Yoo MJ, Byers R, Chen W, Doron-Faigenboim A, Duke
MV, Gong L, Grimwood J, Grover C, Grupp K, Hu G, Lee TH, Li J, Lin L, Liu T,
Marler BS, Page JT, Roberts AW, Romanel E, Sanders WS, Szadkowski E, Tan X, Tang 
H, Xu C, Wang J, Wang Z, Zhang D, Zhang L, Ashrafi H, Bedon F, Bowers JE,
Brubaker CL, Chee PW, Das S, Gingle AR, Haigler CH, Harker D, Hoffmann LV, Hovav 
R, Jones DC, Lemke C, Mansoor S, ur Rahman M, Rainville LN, Rambani A, Reddy UK, 
Rong JK, Saranga Y, Scheffler BE, Scheffler JA, Stelly DM, Triplett BA, Van
Deynze A, Vaslin MF, Waghmare VN, Walford SA, Wright RJ, Zaki EA, Zhang T, Dennis
ES, Mayer KF, Peterson DG, Rokhsar DS, Wang X, Schmutz J.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Genome Mapping Laboratory, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602,
USA.

Polyploidy often confers emergent properties, such as the higher fibre
productivity and quality of tetraploid cottons than diploid cottons bred for the 
same environments. Here we show that an abrupt five- to sixfold ploidy increase
approximately 60 million years (Myr) ago, and allopolyploidy reuniting divergent 
Gossypium genomes approximately 1-2 Myr ago, conferred about 30-36-fold
duplication of ancestral angiosperm (flowering plant) genes in elite cottons
(Gossypium hirsutum and Gossypium barbadense), genetic complexity equalled only
by Brassica among sequenced angiosperms. Nascent fibre evolution, before
allopolyploidy, is elucidated by comparison of spinnable-fibred Gossypium
herbaceum A and non-spinnable Gossypium longicalyx F genomes to one another and
the outgroup D genome of non-spinnable Gossypium raimondii. The sequence of a G. 
hirsutum A(t)D(t) (in which 't' indicates tetraploid) cultivar reveals many
non-reciprocal DNA exchanges between subgenomes that may have contributed to
phenotypic innovation and/or other emergent properties such as ecological
adaptation by polyploids. Most DNA-level novelty in G. hirsutum recombines
alleles from the D-genome progenitor native to its New World habitat and the Old 
World A-genome progenitor in which spinnable fibre evolved. Coordinated
expression changes in proximal groups of functionally distinct genes, including a
nuclear mitochondrial DNA block, may account for clusters of cotton-fibre
quantitative trait loci affecting diverse traits. Opportunities abound for
dissecting emergent properties of other polyploids, particularly angiosperms, by 
comparison to diploid progenitors and outgroups.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11798 
PMID: 23257886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):415-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11671.

Laboratory measurements of the viscous anisotropy of olivine aggregates.

Hansen LN(1), Zimmerman ME, Kohlstedt DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Minnesota, 310 Pillsbury Drive SE,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA. lars.norman.hansen@gmail.com

A marked anisotropy in viscosity develops in Earth's mantle as deformation
strongly aligns the crystallographic axes of the individual grains that comprise 
the rocks. On the basis of geodynamic simulations, processes significantly
affected by viscous anisotropy include post-glacial rebound, foundering of
lithosphere and melt production above subduction zones. However, an estimate of
the magnitude of viscous anisotropy based on the results of deformation
experiments on single crystals differs by three orders of magnitude from that
obtained by grain-scale numerical models of deforming aggregates with strong
crystallographic alignment. Complicating matters, recent experiments indicate
that deformation of the uppermost mantle is dominated by dislocation-accommodated
grain-boundary sliding, a mechanism not activated in experiments on single
crystals and not included in numerical models. Here, using direct measurements of
the viscous anisotropy of highly deformed polycrystalline olivine, we demonstrate
a significant directional dependence of viscosity. Specifically, shear
viscosities measured in high-strain torsion experiments are 15 times smaller than
normal viscosities measured in subsequent tension tests performed parallel to the
torsion axis. This anisotropy is approximately an order of magnitude larger than 
that predicted by grain-scale simulations. These results indicate that
dislocation-accommodated grain-boundary sliding produces an appreciable
anisotropy in rock viscosity. We propose that crystallographic alignment imparts 
viscous anisotropy because the rate of deformation is limited by the movement of 
dislocations through the interiors of the crystallographically aligned grains.
The maximum degree of anisotropy is reached at geologically low shear strain (of 
about ten) such that deforming regions of the upper mantle will exhibit
significant viscous anisotropy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11671 
PMID: 23257885 


54. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):411-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11669.

Quasi-cylindrical wave contribution in experiments on extraordinary optical
transmission.

van Beijnum F(1), Rétif C, Smiet CB, Liu H, Lalanne P, van Exter MP.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden University, Huygens Laboratory, PO Box 9504, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands. beijnum@physics.leidenuniv.nl

A metal film perforated by a regular array of subwavelength holes shows
unexpectedly large transmission at particular wavelengths, a phenomenon known as 
the extraordinary optical transmission (EOT) of metal hole arrays. EOT was first 
attributed to surface plasmon polaritons, stimulating a renewed interest in
plasmonics and metallic surfaces with subwavelength features. Experiments soon
revealed that the field diffracted at a hole or slit is not a surface plasmon
polariton mode alone. Further theoretical analysis predicted that the extra
contribution, from quasi-cylindrical waves, also affects EOT. Here we report the 
experimental demonstration of the relative importance of surface plasmon
polaritons and quasi-cylindrical waves in EOT by considering hole arrays of
different hole densities. From the measured transmission spectra, we determine
microscopic scattering parameters which allow us to show that quasi-cylindrical
waves affect EOT only for high densities, when the hole spacing is roughly one
wavelength. Apart from providing a deeper understanding of EOT, the determination
of microscopic scattering parameters from the measurement of macroscopic optical 
properties paves the way to novel design strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11669 
PMID: 23257884 


55. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):406-10. doi: 10.1038/nature11659.

Fractionalized excitations in the spin-liquid state of a kagome-lattice
antiferromagnet.

Han TH(1), Helton JS, Chu S, Nocera DG, Rodriguez-Rivera JA, Broholm C, Lee YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA. tianheng@alum.mit.edu

The experimental realization of quantum spin liquids is a long-sought goal in
physics, as they represent new states of matter. Quantum spin liquids cannot be
described by the broken symmetries associated with conventional ground states. In
fact, the interacting magnetic moments in these systems do not order, but are
highly entangled with one another over long ranges. Spin liquids have a prominent
role in theories describing high-transition-temperature superconductors, and the 
topological properties of these states may have applications in quantum
information. A key feature of spin liquids is that they support exotic spin
excitations carrying fractional quantum numbers. However, detailed measurements
of these 'fractionalized excitations' have been lacking. Here we report neutron
scattering measurements on single-crystal samples of the spin-1/2 kagome-lattice 
antiferromagnet ZnCu(3)(OD)(6)Cl(2) (also called herbertsmithite), which provide 
striking evidence for this characteristic feature of spin liquids. At low
temperatures, we find that the spin excitations form a continuum, in contrast to 
the conventional spin waves expected in ordered antiferromagnets. The observation
of such a continuum is noteworthy because, so far, this signature of fractional
spin excitations has been observed only in one-dimensional systems. The results
also serve as a hallmark of the quantum spin-liquid state in herbertsmithite.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11659 
PMID: 23257883 


56. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):401-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11702.

The Josephson heat interferometer.

Giazotto F(1), Martínez-Pérez MJ.

Author information: 
(1)NEST, Istituto Nanoscienze-CNR and Scuola Normale Superiore, Piazza San
Silvestro 12, I-56127 Pisa, Italy. giazotto@sns.it

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):358-9.

The Josephson effect is perhaps the prototypical manifestation of macroscopic
phase coherence, and forms the basis of a widely used electronic
interferometer--the superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). In 1965,
Maki and Griffin predicted that the thermal current through a temperature-biased 
Josephson tunnel junction coupling two superconductors should be a stationary
periodic function of the quantum phase difference between the superconductors: a 
temperature-biased SQUID should therefore allow heat currents to interfere,
resulting in a thermal version of the electric Josephson interferometer. This
phase-dependent mechanism of thermal transport has been the subject of much
discussion but, surprisingly, has yet to be realized experimentally. Here we
investigate heat exchange between two normal metal electrodes kept at different
temperatures and tunnel-coupled to each other through a thermal 'modulator' (ref.
5) in the form of a direct-current SQUID. We find that heat transport in the
system is phase dependent, in agreement with the original prediction. Our
Josephson heat interferometer yields magnetic-flux-dependent temperature
oscillations of up to 21 millikelvin in amplitude, and provides a
flux-to-temperature transfer coefficient exceeding 60 millikelvin per flux
quantum at 235 millikelvin. In addition to confirming the existence of a
phase-dependent thermal current unique to Josephson junctions, our results point 
the way towards the phase-coherent manipulation of heat in solid-state
nanocircuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11702 
PMID: 23257882 


57. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):396-400. doi: 10.1038/nature11718.

Evaporative cooling of the dipolar hydroxyl radical.

Stuhl BK(1), Hummon MT, Yeo M, Quéméner G, Bohn JL, Ye J.

Author information: 
(1)JILA, National Institute of Standards and Technology and University of
Colorado, Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):364-5.

Atomic physics was revolutionized by the development of forced evaporative
cooling, which led directly to the observation of Bose-Einstein condensation,
quantum-degenerate Fermi gases and ultracold optical lattice simulations of
condensed-matter phenomena. More recently, substantial progress has been made in 
the production of cold molecular gases. Their permanent electric dipole moment is
expected to generate systems with varied and controllable phases, dynamics and
chemistry. However, although advances have been made in both direct cooling and
cold-association techniques, evaporative cooling has not been achieved so far.
This is due to unfavourable ratios of elastic to inelastic scattering and
impractically slow thermalization rates in the available trapped species. Here we
report the observation of microwave-forced evaporative cooling of neutral
hydroxyl (OH(•)) molecules loaded from a Stark-decelerated beam into an extremely
high-gradient magnetic quadrupole trap. We demonstrate cooling by at least one
order of magnitude in temperature, and a corresponding increase in phase-space
density by three orders of magnitude, limited only by the low-temperature
sensitivity of our spectroscopic thermometry technique. With evaporative cooling 
and a sufficiently large initial population, much colder temperatures are
possible; even a quantum-degenerate gas of this dipolar radical (or anything else
it can sympathetically cool) may be within reach.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11718 
PMID: 23257881 


58. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):393-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11686.

Dynamical age differences among coeval star clusters as revealed by blue
stragglers.

Ferraro FR(1), Lanzoni B, Dalessandro E, Beccari G, Pasquato M, Miocchi P, Rood
RT, Sigurdsson S, Sills A, Vesperini E, Mapelli M, Contreras R, Sanna N,
Mucciarelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Bologna, Viale Berti
Pichat 6/2, 40127 Bologna, Italy. francesco.ferraro3@unibo.it

Globular star clusters that formed at the same cosmic time may have evolved
rather differently from the dynamical point of view (because that evolution
depends on the internal environment) through a variety of processes that tend
progressively to segregate stars more massive than the average towards the
cluster centre. Therefore clusters with the same chronological age may have
reached quite different stages of their dynamical history (that is, they may have
different 'dynamical ages'). Blue straggler stars have masses greater than those 
at the turn-off point on the main sequence and therefore must be the result of
either a collision or a mass-transfer event. Because they are among the most
massive and luminous objects in old clusters, they can be used as test particles 
with which to probe dynamical evolution. Here we report that globular clusters
can be grouped into a few distinct families on the basis of the radial
distribution of blue stragglers. This grouping corresponds well to an effective
ranking of the dynamical stage reached by stellar systems, thereby permitting a
direct measure of the cluster dynamical age purely from observed properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11686 
PMID: 23257880 


59. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):382-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11737. Epub 2012 Dec 12.

FMRP targets distinct mRNA sequence elements to regulate protein expression.

Ascano M Jr(1), Mukherjee N, Bandaru P, Miller JB, Nusbaum JD, Corcoran DL,
Langlois C, Munschauer M, Dewell S, Hafner M, Williams Z, Ohler U, Tuschl T.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Laboratory of RNA Molecular Biology, The
Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):359-60.

Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a multi-organ disease that leads to mental
retardation, macro-orchidism in males and premature ovarian insufficiency in
female carriers. FXS is also a prominent monogenic disease associated with autism
spectrum disorders (ASDs). FXS is typically caused by the loss of fragile X
mental retardation 1 (FMR1) expression, which codes for the RNA-binding protein
FMRP. Here we report the discovery of distinct RNA-recognition elements that
correspond to the two independent RNA-binding domains of FMRP, in addition to the
binding sites within the messenger RNA targets for wild-type and I304N mutant
FMRP isoforms and the FMRP paralogues FXR1P and FXR2P (also known as FXR1 and
FXR2). RNA-recognition-element frequency, ratio and distribution determine target
mRNA association with FMRP. Among highly enriched targets, we identify many genes
involved in ASD and show that FMRP affects their protein levels in human cell
culture, mouse ovaries and human brain. Notably, we discovered that these targets
are also dysregulated in Fmr1(-/-) mouse ovaries showing signs of premature
follicular overdevelopment. These results indicate that FMRP targets share
signalling pathways across different cellular contexts. As the importance of
signalling pathways in both FXS and ASD is becoming increasingly apparent, our
results provide a ranked list of genes as basis for the pursuit of new
therapeutic targets for these neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11737 
PMCID: PMC3528815
PMID: 23235829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):387-92. doi: 10.1038/nature11701. Epub 2012 Dec 9.

High-resolution crystal structure of human protease-activated receptor 1.

Zhang C(1), Srinivasan Y, Arlow DH, Fung JJ, Palmer D, Zheng Y, Green HF, Pandey 
A, Dror RO, Shaw DE, Weis WI, Coughlin SR, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) is the prototypical member of a family of
G-protein-coupled receptors that mediate cellular responses to thrombin and
related proteases. Thrombin irreversibly activates PAR1 by cleaving the
amino-terminal exodomain of the receptor, which exposes a tethered peptide ligand
that binds the heptahelical bundle of the receptor to affect G-protein
activation. Here we report the 2.2 Å resolution crystal structure of human PAR1
bound to vorapaxar, a PAR1 antagonist. The structure reveals an unusual mode of
drug binding that explains how a small molecule binds virtually irreversibly to
inhibit receptor activation by the tethered ligand of PAR1. In contrast to deep, 
solvent-exposed binding pockets observed in other peptide-activated
G-protein-coupled receptors, the vorapaxar-binding pocket is superficial but has 
little surface exposed to the aqueous solvent. Protease-activated receptors are
important targets for drug development. The structure reported here will aid the 
development of improved PAR1 antagonists and the discovery of antagonists to
other members of this receptor family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11701 
PMCID: PMC3531875
PMID: 23222541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):376-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11739. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Functional screening identifies miRNAs inducing cardiac regeneration.

Eulalio A(1), Mano M, Dal Ferro M, Zentilin L, Sinagra G, Zacchigna S, Giacca M.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Laboratory, International Centre for Genetic Engineering
and Biotechnology, 34149 Trieste, Italy.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2013 Feb;6(1):135-6.
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2013 Apr;6(2):222-3.
    Circ Res. 2013 May 24;112(11):1412-4.
    Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):360-2.

In mammals, enlargement of the heart during embryonic development is primarily
dependent on the increase in cardiomyocyte numbers. Shortly after birth, however,
cardiomyocytes stop proliferating and further growth of the myocardium occurs
through hypertrophic enlargement of the existing myocytes. As a consequence of
the minimal renewal of cardiomyocytes during adult life, repair of cardiac damage
through myocardial regeneration is very limited. Here we show that the exogenous 
administration of selected microRNAs (miRNAs) markedly stimulates cardiomyocyte
proliferation and promotes cardiac repair. We performed a high-content
microscopy, high-throughput functional screening for human miRNAs that promoted
neonatal cardiomyocyte proliferation using a whole-genome miRNA library. Forty
miRNAs strongly increased both DNA synthesis and cytokinesis in neonatal mouse
and rat cardiomyocytes. Two of these miRNAs (hsa-miR-590 and hsa-miR-199a) were
further selected for testing and were shown to promote cell cycle re-entry of
adult cardiomyocytes ex vivo and to promote cardiomyocyte proliferation in both
neonatal and adult animals. After myocardial infarction in mice, these miRNAs
stimulated marked cardiac regeneration and almost complete recovery of cardiac
functional parameters. The miRNAs identified hold great promise for the treatment
of cardiac pathologies consequent to cardiomyocyte loss.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11739 
PMID: 23222520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):369-75. doi: 10.1038/nature11677. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Seventy-five genetic loci influencing the human red blood cell.

van der Harst P(1), Zhang W, Mateo Leach I, Rendon A, Verweij N, Sehmi J, Paul
DS, Elling U, Allayee H, Li X, Radhakrishnan A, Tan ST, Voss K, Weichenberger CX,
Albers CA, Al-Hussani A, Asselbergs FW, Ciullo M, Danjou F, Dina C, Esko T, Evans
DM, Franke L, Gögele M, Hartiala J, Hersch M, Holm H, Hottenga JJ, Kanoni S,
Kleber ME, Lagou V, Langenberg C, Lopez LM, Lyytikäinen LP, Melander O, Murgia F,
Nolte IM, O'Reilly PF, Padmanabhan S, Parsa A, Pirastu N, Porcu E, Portas L,
Prokopenko I, Ried JS, Shin SY, Tang CS, Teumer A, Traglia M, Ulivi S, Westra HJ,
Yang J, Zhao JH, Anni F, Abdellaoui A, Attwood A, Balkau B, Bandinelli S,
Bastardot F, Benyamin B, Boehm BO, Cookson WO, Das D, de Bakker PI, de Boer RA,
de Geus EJ, de Moor MH, Dimitriou M, Domingues FS, Döring A, Engström G,
Eyjolfsson GI, Ferrucci L, Fischer K, Galanello R, Garner SF, Genser B, Gibson
QD, Girotto G, Gudbjartsson DF, Harris SE, Hartikainen AL, Hastie CE, Hedblad B, 
Illig T, Jolley J, Kähönen M, Kema IP, Kemp JP, Liang L, Lloyd-Jones H, Loos RJ, 
Meacham S, Medland SE, Meisinger C, Memari Y, Mihailov E, Miller K, Moffatt MF,
Nauck M, Novatchkova M, Nutile T, Olafsson I, Onundarson PT, Parracciani D,
Penninx BW, Perseu L, Piga A, Pistis G, Pouta A, Puc U, Raitakari O, Ring SM,
Robino A, Ruggiero D, Ruokonen A, Saint-Pierre A, Sala C, Salumets A, Sambrook J,
Schepers H, Schmidt CO, Silljé HH, Sladek R, Smit JH, Starr JM, Stephens J, Sulem
P, Tanaka T, Thorsteinsdottir U, Tragante V, van Gilst WH, van Pelt LJ, van
Veldhuisen DJ, Völker U, Whitfield JB, Willemsen G, Winkelmann BR, Wirnsberger G,
Algra A, Cucca F, d'Adamo AP, Danesh J, Deary IJ, Dominiczak AF, Elliott P,
Fortina P, Froguel P, Gasparini P, Greinacher A, Hazen SL, Jarvelin MR, Khaw KT, 
Lehtimäki T, Maerz W, Martin NG, Metspalu A, Mitchell BD, Montgomery GW, Moore C,
Navis G, Pirastu M, Pramstaller PP, Ramirez-Solis R, Schadt E, Scott J, Shuldiner
AR, Smith GD, Smith JG, Snieder H, Sorice R, Spector TD, Stefansson K, Stumvoll
M, Tang WH, Toniolo D, Tönjes A, Visscher PM, Vollenweider P, Wareham NJ,
Wolffenbuttel BH, Boomsma DI, Beckmann JS, Dedoussis GV, Deloukas P, Ferreira MA,
Sanna S, Uda M, Hicks AA, Penninger JM, Gieger C, Kooner JS, Ouwehand WH, Soranzo
N, Chambers JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Groningen, University Medical Center
Groningen, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands. p.van.der.harst@umcg.nl

Anaemia is a chief determinant of global ill health, contributing to cognitive
impairment, growth retardation and impaired physical capacity. To understand
further the genetic factors influencing red blood cells, we carried out a
genome-wide association study of haemoglobin concentration and related parameters
in up to 135,367 individuals. Here we identify 75 independent genetic loci
associated with one or more red blood cell phenotypes at P < 10(-8), which
together explain 4-9% of the phenotypic variance per trait. Using expression
quantitative trait loci and bioinformatic strategies, we identify 121 candidate
genes enriched in functions relevant to red blood cell biology. The candidate
genes are expressed preferentially in red blood cell precursors, and 43 have
haematopoietic phenotypes in Mus musculus or Drosophila melanogaster. Through
open-chromatin and coding-variant analyses we identify potential causal genetic
variants at 41 loci. Our findings provide extensive new insights into genetic
mechanisms and biological pathways controlling red blood cell formation and
function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11677 
PMCID: PMC3623669
PMID: 23222517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):452-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11657. Epub 2012 Nov 25.

Ventral tegmental area GABA projections pause accumbal cholinergic interneurons
to enhance associative learning.

Brown MT(1), Tan KR, O'Connor EC, Nikonenko I, Muller D, Lüscher C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jan;14(1):2-3.

The ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) are essential for
learning about environmental stimuli associated with motivationally relevant
outcomes. The task of signalling such events, both rewarding and aversive, from
the VTA to the NAc has largely been ascribed to dopamine neurons. The VTA also
contains GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid)-releasing neurons, which provide local
inhibition and also project to the NAc. However, the cellular targets and
functional importance of this long-range inhibitory projection have not been
ascertained. Here we show that GABA-releasing neurons of the VTA that project to 
the NAc (VTA GABA projection neurons) inhibit accumbal cholinergic interneurons
(CINs) to enhance stimulus-outcome learning. Combining optogenetics with
structural imaging and electrophysiology, we found that VTA GABA projection
neurons selectively target NAc CINs, forming multiple symmetrical synaptic
contacts that generated inhibitory postsynaptic currents. This is remarkable
considering that CINs represent a very small population of all accumbal neurons, 
and provide the primary source of cholinergic tone in the NAc. Brief activation
of this projection was sufficient to halt the spontaneous activity of NAc CINs,
resembling the pause recorded in animals learning stimulus-outcome associations. 
Indeed, we found that forcing CINs to pause in behaving mice enhanced
discrimination of a motivationally important stimulus that had been associated
with an aversive outcome. Our results demonstrate that VTA GABA projection
neurons, through their selective targeting of accumbal CINs, provide a novel
route through which the VTA communicates saliency to the NAc. VTA GABA projection
neurons thus emerge as orchestrators of dopaminergic and cholinergic modulation
in the NAc.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11657 
PMID: 23178810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):428-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11617.

A prefrontal cortex-brainstem neuronal projection that controls response to
behavioural challenge.

Warden MR(1), Selimbeyoglu A, Mirzabekov JJ, Lo M, Thompson KR, Kim SY, Adhikari 
A, Tye KM, Frank LM, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA. mwarden@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 Feb 18;23(4):R161-3.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jan;14(1):4-5.

The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is thought to participate in high-level control of
the generation of behaviours (including the decision to execute actions); indeed,
imaging and lesion studies in human beings have revealed that PFC dysfunction can
lead to either impulsive states with increased tendency to initiate action, or to
amotivational states characterized by symptoms such as reduced activity,
hopelessness and depressed mood. Considering the opposite valence of these two
phenotypes as well as the broad complexity of other tasks attributed to PFC, we
sought to elucidate the PFC circuitry that favours effortful behavioural
responses to challenging situations. Here we develop and use a quantitative
method for the continuous assessment and control of active response to a
behavioural challenge, synchronized with single-unit electrophysiology and
optogenetics in freely moving rats. In recording from the medial PFC (mPFC), we
observed that many neurons were not simply movement-related in their spike-firing
patterns but instead were selectively modulated from moment to moment, according 
to the animal's decision to act in a challenging situation. Surprisingly, we next
found that direct activation of principal neurons in the mPFC had no detectable
causal effect on this behaviour. We tested whether this behaviour could be
causally mediated by only a subclass of mPFC cells defined by specific downstream
wiring. Indeed, by leveraging optogenetic projection-targeting to control cells
with specific efferent wiring patterns, we found that selective activation of
those mPFC cells projecting to the brainstem dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), a
serotonergic nucleus implicated in major depressive disorder, induced a profound,
rapid and reversible effect on selection of the active behavioural state. These
results may be of importance in understanding the neural circuitry underlying
normal and pathological patterns of action selection and motivation in behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11617 
PMCID: PMC5929119
PMID: 23160494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11655. Epub 2012 Nov 18.

Flickering gives early warning signals of a critical transition to a eutrophic
lake state.

Wang R(1), Dearing JA, Langdon PG, Zhang E, Yang X, Dakos V, Scheffer M.

Author information: 
(1)Palaeoecological Laboratory, Geography and Environment, University of
Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jun 27;498(7455):E11-2.
    Nature. 2013 Jun 27;498(7455):E12-3.

There is a recognized need to anticipate tipping points, or critical transitions,
in social-ecological systems. Studies of mathematical and experimental systems
have shown that systems may 'wobble' before a critical transition. Such early
warning signals may be due to the phenomenon of critical slowing down, which
causes a system to recover slowly from small impacts, or to a flickering
phenomenon, which causes a system to switch back and forth between alternative
states in response to relatively large impacts. Such signals for transitions in
social-ecological systems have rarely been observed, not the least because
high-resolution time series are normally required. Here we combine empirical data
from a lake-catchment system with a mathematical model and show that flickering
can be detected from sparse data. We show how rising variance coupled to
decreasing autocorrelation and skewness started 10-30 years before the transition
to eutrophic lake conditions in both the empirical records and the model output, 
a finding that is consistent with flickering rather than critical slowing down.
Our results suggest that if environmental regimes are sufficiently affected by
large external impacts that flickering is induced, then early warning signals of 
transitions in modern social-ecological systems may be stronger, and hence easier
to identify, than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11655 
PMID: 23160492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):438-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11629. Epub 2012 Nov 18.

Somatic copy number mosaicism in human skin revealed by induced pluripotent stem 
cells.

Abyzov A(1), Mariani J, Palejev D, Zhang Y, Haney MS, Tomasini L, Ferrandino AF, 
Rosenberg Belmaker LA, Szekely A, Wilson M, Kocabas A, Calixto NE, Grigorenko EL,
Huttner A, Chawarska K, Weissman S, Urban AE, Gerstein M, Vaccarino FM.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neurodevelopment and Regeneration, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Reprogramming somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) has been 
suspected of causing de novo copy number variation. To explore this issue, here
we perform a whole-genome and transcriptome analysis of 20 human iPSC lines
derived from the primary skin fibroblasts of seven individuals using
next-generation sequencing. We find that, on average, an iPSC line manifests two 
copy number variants (CNVs) not apparent in the fibroblasts from which the iPSC
was derived. Using PCR and digital droplet PCR, we show that at least 50% of
those CNVs are present as low-frequency somatic genomic variants in parental
fibroblasts (that is, the fibroblasts from which each corresponding human iPSC
line is derived), and are manifested in iPSC lines owing to their clonal origin. 
Hence, reprogramming does not necessarily lead to de novo CNVs in iPSCs, because 
most of the line-manifested CNVs reflect somatic mosaicism in the human skin.
Moreover, our findings demonstrate that clonal expansion, and iPSC lines in
particular, can be used as a discovery tool to reliably detect low-frequency CNVs
in the tissue of origin. Overall, we estimate that approximately 30% of the
fibroblast cells have somatic CNVs in their genomes, suggesting widespread
somatic mosaicism in the human body. Our study paves the way to understanding the
fundamental question of the extent to which cells of the human body normally
acquire structural alterations in their DNA post-zygotically.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11629 
PMCID: PMC3532053
PMID: 23160490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):443-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11709. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Tet1 controls meiosis by regulating meiotic gene expression.

Yamaguchi S(1), Hong K, Liu R, Shen L, Inoue A, Diep D, Zhang K, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, WAB-149G, 200
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):363-4.

Meiosis is a germ-cell-specific cell division process through which haploid
gametes are produced for sexual reproduction. Before the initiation of meiosis,
mouse primordial germ cells undergo a series of epigenetic reprogramming steps,
including the global erasure of DNA methylation at the 5-position of cytosine
(5mC) in CpG-rich DNA. Although several epigenetic regulators, such as Dnmt3l and
the histone methyltransferases G9a and Prdm9, have been reported to be crucial
for meiosis, little is known about how the expression of meiotic genes is
regulated and how their expression contributes to normal meiosis. Using a
loss-of-function approach in mice, here we show that the 5mC-specific dioxygenase
Tet1 has an important role in regulating meiosis in mouse oocytes. Tet1
deficiency significantly reduces female germ-cell numbers and fertility.
Univalent chromosomes and unresolved DNA double-strand breaks are also observed
in Tet1-deficient oocytes. Tet1 deficiency does not greatly affect the
genome-wide demethylation that takes place in primordial germ cells, but leads to
defective DNA demethylation and decreased expression of a subset of meiotic
genes. Our study thus establishes a function for Tet1 in meiosis and meiotic gene
activation in female germ cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11709 
PMCID: PMC3528851
PMID: 23151479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):448-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11670. Epub 2012 Oct 31.

Structure of the Mediator head module.

Larivière L(1), Plaschka C, Seizl M, Wenzeck L, Kurth F, Cramer P.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Center and Department of Biochemistry, Center for Integrated Protein
Science Munich, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Feodor-Lynen-Straße 25,
81377 Munich, Germany. larivier@genzentrum.lmu.de

Gene transcription by RNA polymerase (Pol) II requires the coactivator complex
Mediator. Mediator connects transcriptional regulators and Pol II, and is linked 
to human disease. Mediator from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has a
molecular mass of 1.4 megadaltons and comprises 25 subunits that form the head,
middle, tail and kinase modules. The head module constitutes one-half of the
essential Mediator core, and comprises the conserved subunits Med6, Med8, Med11, 
Med17, Med18, Med20 and Med22. Recent X-ray analysis of the S. cerevisiae head
module at 4.3 Å resolution led to a partial architectural model with three
submodules called neck, fixed jaw and moveable jaw. Here we determine de novo the
crystal structure of the head module from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces
pombe at 3.4 Å resolution. Structure solution was enabled by new structures of
Med6 and the fixed jaw, and previous structures of the moveable jaw and part of
the neck, and required deletion of Med20. The S. pombe head module resembles the 
head of a crocodile with eight distinct elements, of which at least four are
mobile. The fixed jaw comprises tooth and nose domains, whereas the neck
submodule contains a helical spine and one limb, with shoulder, arm and finger
elements. The arm and the essential shoulder contact other parts of Mediator. The
jaws and a central joint are implicated in interactions with Pol II and its
carboxy-terminal domain, and the joint is required for transcription in vitro.
The S. pombe head module structure leads to a revised model of the S. cerevisiae 
module, reveals a high conservation and flexibility, explains known mutations,
and provides the basis for unravelling a central mechanism of gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11670 
PMID: 23123849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):433-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11614. Epub 2012 Oct 28.

Layered reward signalling through octopamine and dopamine in Drosophila.

Burke CJ(1), Huetteroth W, Owald D, Perisse E, Krashes MJ, Das G, Gohl D, Silies 
M, Certel S, Waddell S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 364
Plantation Street, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Dec;13(12):816.

Dopamine is synonymous with reward and motivation in mammals. However, only
recently has dopamine been linked to motivated behaviour and rewarding
reinforcement in fruitflies. Instead, octopamine has historically been considered
to be the signal for reward in insects. Here we show, using temporal control of
neural function in Drosophila, that only short-term appetitive memory is
reinforced by octopamine. Moreover, octopamine-dependent memory formation
requires signalling through dopamine neurons. Part of the octopamine signal
requires the α-adrenergic-like OAMB receptor in an identified subset of
mushroom-body-targeted dopamine neurons. Octopamine triggers an increase in
intracellular calcium in these dopamine neurons, and their direct activation can 
substitute for sugar to form appetitive memory, even in flies lacking octopamine.
Analysis of the β-adrenergic-like OCTβ2R receptor reveals that
octopamine-dependent reinforcement also requires an interaction with dopamine
neurons that control appetitive motivation. These data indicate that sweet taste 
engages a distributed octopamine signal that reinforces memory through discrete
subsets of mushroom-body-targeted dopamine neurons. In addition, they reconcile
previous findings with octopamine and dopamine and suggest that reinforcement
systems in flies are more similar to mammals than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11614 
PMCID: PMC3528794
PMID: 23103875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):276-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11773.

Centralspindlin links the mitotic spindle to the plasma membrane during
cytokinesis.

Lekomtsev S(1), Su KC, Pye VE, Blight K, Sundaramoorthy S, Takaki T, Collinson
LM, Cherepanov P, Divecha N, Petronczki M.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Division and Aneuploidy Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, Clare Hall Laboratories, Blanche Lane, South Mimms, Hertfordshire EN6 
3LD, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2013 Feb;14(2):68.

At the end of cell division, cytokinesis splits the cytoplasm of nascent daughter
cells and partitions segregated sister genomes. To coordinate cell division with 
chromosome segregation, the mitotic spindle controls cytokinetic events at the
cell envelope. The spindle midzone stimulates the actomyosin-driven contraction
of the cleavage furrow, which proceeds until the formation of a microtubule-rich 
intercellular bridge with the midbody at its centre. The midbody directs the
final membrane abscission reaction and has been proposed to attach the cleavage
furrow to the intercellular bridge. How the mitotic spindle is connected to the
plasma membrane during cytokinesis is not understood. Here we identify a plasma
membrane tethering activity in the centralspindlin protein complex, a conserved
component of the spindle midzone and midbody. We demonstrate that the C1 domain
of the centralspindlin subunit MgcRacGAP associates with the plasma membrane by
interacting with polyanionic phosphoinositide lipids. Using X-ray crystallography
we determine the structure of this atypical C1 domain. Mutations in the
hydrophobic cap and in basic residues of the C1 domain of MgcRacGAP prevent
association of the protein with the plasma membrane, and abrogate cytokinesis in 
human and chicken cells. Artificial membrane tethering of centralspindlin
restores cell division in the absence of the C1 domain of MgcRacGAP. Although
C1 domain function is dispensable for the formation of the midzone and midbody,
it promotes contractility and is required for the attachment of the plasma
membrane to the midbody, a long-postulated function of this organelle. Our
analysis suggests that centralspindlin links the mitotic spindle to the plasma
membrane to secure the final cut during cytokinesis in animal cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11773 
PMID: 23235882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):271-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11726.

Activated GTPase movement on an RNA scaffold drives co-translational protein
targeting.

Shen K(1), Arslan S, Akopian D, Ha T, Shan SO.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):189-91.

Approximately one-third of the proteome is initially destined for the eukaryotic 
endoplasmic reticulum or the bacterial plasma membrane. The proper localization
of these proteins is mediated by a universally conserved protein-targeting
machinery, the signal recognition particle (SRP), which recognizes ribosomes
carrying signal sequences and, through interactions with the SRP receptor,
delivers them to the protein-translocation machinery on the target membrane. The 
SRP is an ancient ribonucleoprotein particle containing an essential, elongated
SRP RNA for which precise functions have remained elusive. Here we used
single-molecule fluorescence microscopy to show that the Escherichia coli SRP-SRP
receptor GTPase complex, after initial assembly at the tetraloop end of SRP RNA, 
travels over 100 Å to the distal end of this RNA, where rapid GTP hydrolysis
occurs. This movement is negatively regulated by the translating ribosome and, at
a later stage, positively regulated by the SecYEG translocon, providing an
attractive mechanism for ensuring the productive exchange of the targeting and
translocation machineries at the ribosome exit site with high spatial and
temporal accuracy. Our results show that large RNAs can act as molecular
scaffolds that enable the easy exchange of distinct factors and precise timing of
molecular events in a complex cellular process; this concept may be extended to
similar phenomena in other ribonucleoprotein complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11726 
PMCID: PMC3531814
PMID: 23235881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):256-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11651. Epub 2012 Oct 15.

A soybean cyst nematode resistance gene points to a new mechanism of plant
resistance to pathogens.

Liu S(1), Kandoth PK, Warren SD, Yeckel G, Heinz R, Alden J, Yang C, Jamai A,
El-Mellouki T, Juvale PS, Hill J, Baum TJ, Cianzio S, Whitham SA, Korkin D,
Mitchum MG, Meksem K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant, Soil and Agricultural Systems, Southern Illinois
University, Carbondale, Illinois 62901, USA.

Soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) is an important crop that provides a sustainable
source of protein and oil worldwide. Soybean cyst nematode (Heterodera glycines
Ichinohe) is a microscopic roundworm that feeds on the roots of soybean and is a 
major constraint to soybean production. This nematode causes more than US$1
billion in yield losses annually in the United States alone, making it the most
economically important pathogen on soybean. Although planting of resistant
cultivars forms the core management strategy for this pathogen, nothing is known 
about the nature of resistance. Moreover, the increase in virulent populations of
this parasite on most known resistance sources necessitates the development of
novel approaches for control. Here we report the map-based cloning of a gene at
the Rhg4 (for resistance to Heterodera glycines 4) locus, a major quantitative
trait locus contributing to resistance to this pathogen. Mutation analysis, gene 
silencing and transgenic complementation confirm that the gene confers
resistance. The gene encodes a serine hydroxymethyltransferase, an enzyme that is
ubiquitous in nature and structurally conserved across kingdoms. The enzyme is
responsible for interconversion of serine and glycine and is essential for
cellular one-carbon metabolism. Alleles of Rhg4 conferring resistance or
susceptibility differ by two genetic polymorphisms that alter a key regulatory
property of the enzyme. Our discovery reveals an unprecedented plant resistance
mechanism against a pathogen. The mechanistic knowledge of the resistance gene
can be readily exploited to improve nematode resistance of soybean, an
increasingly important global crop.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11651 
PMID: 23235880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):243-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11663.

Deep penetration of molten iron into the mantle caused by a morphological
instability.

Otsuka K(1), Karato S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, 210 Whitney Avenue, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.

The core-mantle boundary of Earth is a region where iron-rich liquids interact
with oxides and silicates in the mantle. Iron enrichment may occur at the bottom 
of the mantle, leading to low seismic-wave velocities and high electrical
conductivity, but plausible physical processes of iron enrichment have not been
suggested. Diffusion-controlled iron enrichment is inefficient because it is too 
slow, although the diffusion can be fast enough along grain boundaries for some
elements. More fundamentally, experimental studies and geophysical observations
show that the core is under-saturated with oxygen, implying that the mantle next 
to the core should be depleted in FeO. Here we show that (Mg,Fe)O in contact with
iron-rich liquids leads to a morphological instability, causing blobs of
iron-rich liquid to penetrate the oxide. This morphological instability is
generated by the chemical potential gradient between two materials when they are 
not in bulk chemical equilibrium, and should be a common process in Earth's
interior. Iron-rich melt could be transported 50 to 100 kilometres away from the 
core-mantle boundary by this mechanism, providing an explanation for the
iron-rich regions in the mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11663 
PMID: 23235879 


74. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):239-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11616.

Increased future ice discharge from Antarctica owing to higher snowfall.

Winkelmann R(1), Levermann A, Martin MA, Frieler K.

Author information: 
(1)Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), 14473 Potsdam, Germany.
ricarda.winkelmann@pik-potsdam.de

Anthropogenic climate change is likely to cause continuing global sea level rise,
but some processes within the Earth system may mitigate the magnitude of the
projected effect. Regional and global climate models simulate enhanced snowfall
over Antarctica, which would provide a direct offset of the future contribution
to global sea level rise from cryospheric mass loss and ocean expansion.
Uncertainties exist in modelled snowfall, but even larger uncertainties exist in 
the potential changes of dynamic ice discharge from Antarctica and thus in the
ultimate fate of the precipitation-deposited ice mass. Here we show that snowfall
and discharge are not independent, but that future ice discharge will increase by
up to three times as a result of additional snowfall under global warming. Our
results, based on an ice-sheet model forced by climate simulations through to the
end of 2500 (ref. 8), show that the enhanced discharge effect exceeds the effect 
of surface warming as well as that of basal ice-shelf melting, and is due to the 
difference in surface elevation change caused by snowfall on grounded versus
floating ice. Although different underlying forcings drive ice loss from basal
melting versus increased snowfall, similar ice dynamical processes are
nonetheless at work in both; therefore results are relatively independent of the 
specific representation of the transition zone. In an ensemble of simulations
designed to capture ice-physics uncertainty, the additional dynamic ice loss
along the coastline compensates between 30 and 65 per cent of the ice gain due to
enhanced snowfall over the entire continent. This results in a dynamic ice loss
of up to 1.25 metres in the year 2500 for the strongest warming scenario. The
reported effect thus strongly counters a potential negative contribution to
global sea level by the Antarctic Ice Sheet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11616 
PMID: 23235878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):234-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11687.

Highly efficient organic light-emitting diodes from delayed fluorescence.

Uoyama H(1), Goushi K, Shizu K, Nomura H, Adachi C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Organic Photonics and Electronics Research, Kyushu University, 744 
Motooka, Nishi, Fukuoka 819-0395, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):197.

The inherent flexibility afforded by molecular design has accelerated the
development of a wide variety of organic semiconductors over the past two
decades. In particular, great advances have been made in the development of
materials for organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), from early devices based on 
fluorescent molecules to those using phosphorescent molecules. In OLEDs,
electrically injected charge carriers recombine to form singlet and triplet
excitons in a 1:3 ratio; the use of phosphorescent metal-organic complexes
exploits the normally non-radiative triplet excitons and so enhances the overall 
electroluminescence efficiency. Here we report a class of metal-free organic
electroluminescent molecules in which the energy gap between the singlet and
triplet excited states is minimized by design, thereby promoting highly efficient
spin up-conversion from non-radiative triplet states to radiative singlet states 
while maintaining high radiative decay rates, of more than 10(6) decays per
second. In other words, these molecules harness both singlet and triplet excitons
for light emission through fluorescence decay channels, leading to an intrinsic
fluorescence efficiency in excess of 90 per cent and a very high external
electroluminescence efficiency, of more than 19 per cent, which is comparable to 
that achieved in high-efficiency phosphorescence-based OLEDs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11687 
PMID: 23235877 


76. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):229-33. doi: 10.1038/nature11620.

Mid-infrared frequency comb based on a quantum cascade laser.

Hugi A(1), Villares G, Blaser S, Liu HC, Faist J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Electronics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Optical frequency combs act as rulers in the frequency domain and have opened new
avenues in many fields such as fundamental time metrology, spectroscopy and
frequency synthesis. In particular, spectroscopy by means of optical frequency
combs has surpassed the precision and speed of Fourier spectrometers. Such a
spectroscopy technique is especially relevant for the mid-infrared range, where
the fundamental rotational-vibrational bands of most light molecules are found.
Most mid-infrared comb sources are based on down-conversion of near-infrared,
mode-locked, ultrafast lasers using nonlinear crystals. Their use in frequency
comb spectroscopy applications has resulted in an unequalled combination of
spectral coverage, resolution and sensitivity. Another means of comb generation
is pumping an ultrahigh-quality factor microresonator with a continuous-wave
laser. However, these combs depend on a chain of optical components, which limits
their use. Therefore, to widen the spectroscopic applications of such
mid-infrared combs, a more direct and compact generation scheme, using electrical
injection, is preferable. Here we present a compact, broadband, semiconductor
frequency comb generator that operates in the mid-infrared. We demonstrate that
the modes of a continuous-wave, free-running, broadband quantum cascade laser are
phase-locked. Combining mode proliferation based on four-wave mixing with gain
provided by the quantum cascade laser leads to a phase relation similar to that
of a frequency-modulated laser. The comb centre carrier wavelength is
7 micrometres. We identify a narrow drive current range with intermode beat
linewidths narrower than 10 hertz. We find comb bandwidths of 4.4 per cent with
an intermode stability of less than or equal to 200 hertz. The intermode beat can
be varied over a frequency range of 65 kilohertz by radio-frequency injection.
The large gain bandwidth and independent control over the carrier frequency
offset and the mode spacing open the way to broadband, compact, all-solid-state
mid-infrared spectrometers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11620 
PMID: 23235876 


77. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):225-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11627.

An unexpectedly low oscillator strength as the origin of the Fe XVII emission
problem.

Bernitt S(1), Brown GV, Rudolph JK, Steinbrügge R, Graf A, Leutenegger M, Epp SW,
Eberle S, Kubiček K, Mäckel V, Simon MC, Träbert E, Magee EW, Beilmann C, Hell N,
Schippers S, Müller A, Kahn SM, Surzhykov A, Harman Z, Keitel CH, Clementson J,
Porter FS, Schlotter W, Turner JJ, Ullrich J, Beiersdorfer P, López-Urrutia JR.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
sven.bernitt@mpi-hd.mpg.de

Highly charged iron (Fe(16+), here referred to as Fe XVII) produces some of the
brightest X-ray emission lines from hot astrophysical objects, including galaxy
clusters and stellar coronae, and it dominates the emission of the Sun at
wavelengths near 15 ångströms. The Fe XVII spectrum is, however, poorly fitted by
even the best astrophysical models. A particular problem has been that the
intensity of the strongest Fe XVII line is generally weaker than predicted. This 
has affected the interpretation of observations by the Chandra and XMM-Newton
orbiting X-ray missions, fuelling a continuing controversy over whether this
discrepancy is caused by incomplete modelling of the plasma environment in these 
objects or by shortcomings in the treatment of the underlying atomic physics.
Here we report the results of an experiment in which a target of iron ions was
induced to fluoresce by subjecting it to femtosecond X-ray pulses from a
free-electron laser; our aim was to isolate a key aspect of the quantum
mechanical description of the line emission. Surprisingly, we find a relative
oscillator strength that is unexpectedly low, differing by 3.6σ from the best
quantum mechanical calculations. Our measurements suggest that the poor agreement
is rooted in the quality of the underlying atomic wavefunctions rather than in
insufficient modelling of collisional processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11627 
PMID: 23235875 


78. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):215-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11691.

Automated design of ligands to polypharmacological profiles.

Besnard J(1), Ruda GF, Setola V, Abecassis K, Rodriguiz RM, Huang XP, Norval S,
Sassano MF, Shin AI, Webster LA, Simeons FR, Stojanovski L, Prat A, Seidah NG,
Constam DB, Bickerton GR, Read KD, Wetsel WC, Gilbert IH, Roth BL, Hopkins AL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry and Drug Discovery, College of Life Sciences,
University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2013 Feb;12(2):101.

The clinical efficacy and safety of a drug is determined by its activity profile 
across many proteins in the proteome. However, designing drugs with a specific
multi-target profile is both complex and difficult. Therefore methods to design
drugs rationally a priori against profiles of several proteins would have immense
value in drug discovery. Here we describe a new approach for the automated design
of ligands against profiles of multiple drug targets. The method is demonstrated 
by the evolution of an approved acetylcholinesterase inhibitor drug into
brain-penetrable ligands with either specific polypharmacology or exquisite
selectivity profiles for G-protein-coupled receptors. Overall, 800 ligand-target 
predictions of prospectively designed ligands were tested experimentally, of
which 75% were confirmed to be correct. We also demonstrate target engagement in 
vivo. The approach can be a useful source of drug leads when multi-target
profiles are required to achieve either selectivity over other drug targets or a 
desired polypharmacology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11691 
PMCID: PMC3653568
PMID: 23235874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):221-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11662. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

Formation of the widest binary stars from dynamical unfolding of triple systems.

Reipurth B(1), Mikkola S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii at Manoa, 640 North Aohoku
Place, Hawaii 96720, USA. reipurth@ifa.hawaii.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):191-2.

The formation of very wide binary systems, such as the α Centauri system with
Proxima (also known as α Centauri C) separated from α Centauri (which itself is a
close binary A/B) by 15,000 astronomical units (1 AU is the distance from Earth
to the Sun), challenges current theories of star formation, because their
separation can exceed the typical size of a collapsing cloud core. Various
hypotheses have been proposed to overcome this problem, including the suggestion 
that ultrawide binaries result from the dissolution of a star cluster--when a
cluster star gravitationally captures another, distant, cluster star. Recent
observations have shown that very wide binaries are frequently members of triple 
systems and that close binaries often have a distant third companion. Here we
report N-body simulations of the dynamical evolution of newborn triple systems
still embedded in their nascent cloud cores that match observations of very wide 
systems. We find that although the triple systems are born very compact--and
therefore initially are more protected against disruption by passing stars--they 
can develop extreme hierarchical architectures on timescales of millions of years
as one component is dynamically scattered into a very distant orbit. The energy
of ejection comes from shrinking the orbits of the other two stars, often making 
them look from a distance like a single star. Such loosely bound triple systems
will therefore appear to be very wide binaries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11662 
PMID: 23222523 


80. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):205-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11730. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Bypass of a protein barrier by a replicative DNA helicase.

Yardimci H(1), Wang X, Loveland AB, Tappin I, Rudner DZ, Hurwitz J, van Oijen AM,
Walter JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):195-7.

Replicative DNA helicases generally unwind DNA as a single hexamer that encircles
and translocates along one strand of the duplex while excluding the complementary
strand (known as steric exclusion). By contrast, large T antigen, the replicative
DNA helicase of the simian virus 40 (SV40), is reported to function as a pair of 
stacked hexamers that pumps double-stranded DNA through its central channel while
laterally extruding single-stranded DNA. Here we use single-molecule and ensemble
assays to show that large T antigen assembled on the SV40 origin unwinds DNA
efficiently as a single hexamer that translocates on single-stranded DNA in the
3'-to-5' direction. Unexpectedly, large T antigen unwinds DNA past a DNA-protein 
crosslink on the translocation strand, suggesting that the large T antigen ring
can open to bypass bulky adducts. Together, our data underscore the profound
conservation among replicative helicase mechanisms, and reveal a new level of
plasticity in the interactions of replicative helicases with DNA damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11730 
PMCID: PMC3521859
PMID: 23201686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):199-204. doi: 10.1038/nature11700. Epub 2012 Nov
28.

The NAD-dependent deacetylase SIRT2 is required for programmed necrosis.

Narayan N(1), Lee IH, Borenstein R, Sun J, Wong R, Tong G, Fergusson MM, Liu J,
Rovira II, Cheng HL, Wang G, Gucek M, Lombard D, Alt FW, Sack MN, Murphy E, Cao
L, Finkel T.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, NIH, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):516.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):E4-6.
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):194-5.

Although initially viewed as unregulated, increasing evidence suggests that
cellular necrosis often proceeds through a specific molecular program. In
particular, death ligands such as tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α activate
necrosis by stimulating the formation of a complex containing
receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) and receptor-interacting protein 3 (RIP3). 
Relatively little is known regarding how this complex formation is regulated.
Here, we show that the NAD-dependent deacetylase SIRT2 binds constitutively to
RIP3 and that deletion or knockdown of SIRT2 prevents formation of the RIP1-RIP3 
complex in mice. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological inhibition of SIRT2
blocks cellular necrosis induced by TNF-α. We further demonstrate that RIP1 is a 
critical target of SIRT2-dependent deacetylation. Using gain- and
loss-of-function mutants, we demonstrate that acetylation of RIP1 lysine 530
modulates RIP1-RIP3 complex formation and TNF-α-stimulated necrosis. In the
setting of ischaemia-reperfusion injury, RIP1 is deacetylated in a
SIRT2-dependent fashion. Furthermore, the hearts of Sirt2(-/-) mice, or wild-type
mice treated with a specific pharmacological inhibitor of SIRT2, show marked
protection from ischaemic injury. Taken together, these results implicate SIRT2
as an important regulator of programmed necrosis and indicate that inhibitors of 
this deacetylase may constitute a novel approach to protect against necrotic
injuries, including ischaemic stroke and myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11700 
PMID: 23201684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):210-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11683. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

Structure of the TatC core of the twin-arginine protein transport system.

Rollauer SE(1), Tarry MJ, Graham JE, Jääskeläinen M, Jäger F, Johnson S,
Krehenbrink M, Liu SM, Lukey MJ, Marcoux J, McDowell MA, Rodriguez F, Roversi P, 
Stansfeld PJ, Robinson CV, Sansom MS, Palmer T, Högbom M, Berks BC, Lea SM.

Author information: 
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, 
Oxford OX1 3RE, UK.

The twin-arginine translocation (Tat) pathway is one of two general protein
transport systems found in the prokaryotic cytoplasmic membrane and is conserved 
in the thylakoid membrane of plant chloroplasts. The defining, and highly
unusual, property of the Tat pathway is that it transports folded proteins, a
task that must be achieved without allowing appreciable ion leakage across the
membrane. The integral membrane TatC protein is the central component of the Tat 
pathway. TatC captures substrate proteins by binding their signal peptides. TatC 
then recruits TatA family proteins to form the active translocation complex. Here
we report the crystal structure of TatC from the hyperthermophilic bacterium
Aquifex aeolicus. This structure provides a molecular description of the core of 
the Tat translocation system and a framework for understanding the unique Tat
transport mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11683 
PMCID: PMC3573685
PMID: 23201679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):266-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11722. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

Ubiquitin chain conformation regulates recognition and activity of interacting
proteins.

Ye Y(1), Blaser G, Horrocks MH, Ruedas-Rama MJ, Ibrahim S, Zhukov AA, Orte A,
Klenerman D, Jackson SE, Komander D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Protein and Nucleic Acids Chemistry, MRC Laboratory of Molecular
Biology, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Mechanisms of protein recognition have been extensively studied for single-domain
proteins, but are less well characterized for dynamic multidomain systems.
Ubiquitin chains represent a biologically important multidomain system that
requires recognition by structurally diverse ubiquitin-interacting proteins.
Ubiquitin chain conformations in isolation are often different from conformations
observed in ubiquitin-interacting protein complexes, indicating either great
dynamic flexibility or extensive chain remodelling upon binding. Using
single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer, we show that Lys 63-,
Lys 48- and Met 1-linked diubiquitin exist in several distinct conformational
states in solution. Lys 63- and Met 1-linked diubiquitin adopt extended 'open'
and more compact 'closed' conformations, and ubiquitin-binding domains and
deubiquitinases (DUBs) select pre-existing conformations. By contrast,
Lys 48-linked diubiquitin adopts predominantly compact conformations. DUBs
directly recognize existing conformations, but may also remodel ubiquitin chains 
to hydrolyse the isopeptide bond. Disruption of the Lys 48-diubiquitin interface 
changes conformational dynamics and affects DUB activity. Hence, conformational
equilibria in ubiquitin chains provide an additional layer of regulation in the
ubiquitin system, and distinct conformations observed in differently linked
polyubiquitin may contribute to the specificity of ubiquitin-interacting
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11722 
PMCID: PMC3605796
PMID: 23201676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):261-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11654. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

An early age increase in vacuolar pH limits mitochondrial function and lifespan
in yeast.

Hughes AL(1), Gottschling DE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.

Mitochondria have a central role in ageing. They are considered to be both a
target of the ageing process and a contributor to it. Alterations in
mitochondrial structure and function are evident during ageing in most
eukaryotes, but how this occurs is poorly understood. Here we identify a
functional link between the lysosome-like vacuole and mitochondria in
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and show that mitochondrial dysfunction in
replicatively aged yeast arises from altered vacuolar pH. We found that vacuolar 
acidity declines during the early asymmetric divisions of a mother cell, and that
preventing this decline suppresses mitochondrial dysfunction and extends
lifespan. Surprisingly, changes in vacuolar pH do not limit mitochondrial
function by disrupting vacuolar protein degradation, but rather by reducing
pH-dependent amino acid storage in the vacuolar lumen. We also found that calorie
restriction promotes lifespan extension at least in part by increasing vacuolar
acidity via conserved nutrient-sensing pathways. Interestingly, although vacuolar
acidity is reduced in aged mother cells, acidic vacuoles are regenerated in
newborn daughters, coinciding with daughter cells having a renewed lifespan
potential. Overall, our results identify vacuolar pH as a critical regulator of
ageing and mitochondrial function, and outline a potentially conserved mechanism 
by which calorie restriction delays the ageing process. Because the functions of 
the vacuole are highly conserved throughout evolution, we propose that lysosomal 
pH may modulate mitochondrial function and lifespan in other eukaryotic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11654 
PMCID: PMC3521838
PMID: 23172144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):247-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11601. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Nonlinear dendritic integration of sensory and motor input during an active
sensing task.

Xu NL(1), Harnett MT, Williams SR, Huber D, O'Connor DH, Svoboda K, Magee JC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia Farm Research Campus, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147, USA.

Active dendrites provide neurons with powerful processing capabilities. However, 
little is known about the role of neuronal dendrites in behaviourally related
circuit computations. Here we report that a novel global dendritic nonlinearity
is involved in the integration of sensory and motor information within layer 5
pyramidal neurons during an active sensing behaviour. Layer 5 pyramidal neurons
possess elaborate dendritic arborizations that receive functionally distinct
inputs, each targeted to spatially separate regions. At the cellular level,
coincident input from these segregated pathways initiates regenerative dendritic 
electrical events that produce bursts of action potential output and circuits
featuring this powerful dendritic nonlinearity can implement computations based
on input correlation. To examine this in vivo we recorded dendritic activity in
layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the barrel cortex using two-photon calcium imaging
in mice performing an object-localization task. Large-amplitude, global calcium
signals were observed throughout the apical tuft dendrites when active touch
occurred at particular object locations or whisker angles. Such global calcium
signals are produced by dendritic plateau potentials that require both vibrissal 
sensory input and primary motor cortex activity. These data provide direct
evidence of nonlinear dendritic processing of correlated sensory and motor
information in the mammalian neocortex during active sensation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11601 
PMID: 23143335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):280-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11625. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Regulation of ISWI involves inhibitory modules antagonized by nucleosomal
epitopes.

Clapier CR(1), Cairns BR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Oncological Sciences,
Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City,
Utah 84112, USA. cedric.clapier@hci.utah.edu

Chromatin-remodelling complexes (CRCs) mobilize nucleosomes to mediate the access
of DNA-binding factors to their sites in vivo. These CRCs contain a catalytic
subunit that bears an ATPase/DNA-translocase domain and flanking regions that
bind nucleosomal epitopes. A central question is whether and how these flanking
regions regulate ATP hydrolysis or the coupling of hydrolysis to DNA
translocation, to affect nucleosome-sliding efficiency. ISWI-family CRCs contain 
the protein ISWI, which uses its ATPase/DNA-translocase domain to pump DNA around
the histone octamer to enable sliding. ISWI is positively regulated by two
'activating' nucleosomal epitopes: the 'basic patch' on the histone H4 tail, and 
extranucleosomal (linker) DNA. Previous work defined the HAND-SANT-SLIDE (HSS)
domain at the ISWI carboxy terminus that binds linker DNA, needed for ISWI
activity. Here we define two new, conserved and separate regulatory regions on
Drosophila ISWI, termed AutoN and NegC, which negatively regulate ATP hydrolysis 
(AutoN) or the coupling of ATP hydrolysis to productive DNA translocation (NegC).
The two aforementioned nucleosomal epitopes promote remodelling indirectly by
preventing the negative regulation of AutoN and NegC. Notably, mutation or
removal of AutoN and NegC enables marked nucleosome sliding without the H4 basic 
patch or extranucleosomal DNA, or the HSS domain, conferring on ISWI the
biochemical attributes normally associated with SWI/SNF-family ATPases. Thus, the
ISWI ATPase catalytic core is an intrinsically active DNA translocase that
conducts nucleosome sliding, onto which selective 'inhibition-of-inhibition'
modules are placed, to help ensure that remodelling occurs only in the presence
of proper nucleosomal epitopes. This supports a general concept for the
specialization of chromatin-remodelling ATPases, in which specific regulatory
modules adapt an ancient active DNA translocase to conduct particular tasks only 
on the appropriate chromatin landscape.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11625 
PMCID: PMC3631562
PMID: 23143334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):252-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11603. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Interleukin receptor activates a MYD88-ARNO-ARF6 cascade to disrupt vascular
stability.

Zhu W(1), London NR, Gibson CC, Davis CT, Tong Z, Sorensen LK, Shi DS, Guo J,
Smith MC, Grossmann AH, Thomas KR, Li DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2013 Jan;9(1):2.

The innate immune response is essential for combating infectious disease.
Macrophages and other cells respond to infection by releasing cytokines, such as 
interleukin-1β (IL-1β), which in turn activate a well-described,
myeloid-differentiation factor 88 (MYD88)-mediated, nuclear factor-κB
(NF-κB)-dependent transcriptional pathway that results in inflammatory-cell
activation and recruitment. Endothelial cells, which usually serve as a barrier
to the movement of inflammatory cells out of the blood and into tissue, are also 
critical mediators of the inflammatory response. Paradoxically, the cytokines
vital to a successful immune defence also have disruptive effects on endothelial 
cell-cell interactions and can trigger degradation of barrier function and
dissociation of tissue architecture. The mechanism of this barrier dissolution
and its relationship to the canonical NF-κB pathway remain poorly defined. Here
we show that the direct, immediate and disruptive effects of IL-1β on endothelial
stability in a human in vitro cell model are NF-κB independent and are instead
the result of signalling through the small GTPase ADP-ribosylation factor 6
(ARF6) and its activator ARF nucleotide binding site opener (ARNO; also known as 
CYTH2). Moreover, we show that ARNO binds directly to the adaptor protein MYD88, 
and thus propose MYD88-ARNO-ARF6 as a proximal IL-1β signalling pathway distinct 
from that mediated by NF-κB. Finally, we show that SecinH3, an inhibitor of ARF
guanine nucleotide-exchange factors such as ARNO, enhances vascular stability and
significantly improves outcomes in animal models of inflammatory arthritis and
acute inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11603 
PMCID: PMC3521847
PMID: 23143332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):285-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11648. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

The TEL patch of telomere protein TPP1 mediates telomerase recruitment and
processivity.

Nandakumar J(1), Bell CF, Weidenfeld I, Zaug AJ, Leinwand LA, Cech TR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Colorado BioFrontiers Institute, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.

Human chromosome ends are capped by shelterin, a protein complex that protects
the natural ends from being recognized as sites of DNA damage and also regulates 
the telomere-replicating enzyme, telomerase. Shelterin includes the heterodimeric
POT1-TPP1 protein, which binds the telomeric single-stranded DNA tail. TPP1 has
been implicated both in recruiting telomerase to telomeres and in stimulating
telomerase processivity (the addition of multiple DNA repeats after a single
primer-binding event). Determining the mechanisms of these activities has been
difficult, especially because genetic perturbations also tend to affect the
essential chromosome end-protection function of TPP1 (refs 15-17). Here we
identify separation-of-function mutants of human TPP1 that retain full
telomere-capping function in vitro and in vivo, yet are defective in binding
human telomerase. The seven separation-of-function mutations map to a patch of
amino acids on the surface of TPP1, the TEL patch, that both recruits telomerase 
to telomeres and promotes high-processivity DNA synthesis, indicating that these 
two activities are manifestations of the same molecular interaction. Given that
the interaction between telomerase and TPP1 is required for telomerase function
in vivo, the TEL patch of TPP1 provides a new target for anticancer drug
development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11648 
PMCID: PMC3521872
PMID: 23103865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):100-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11672.

The root of branching river networks.

Perron JT(1), Richardson PW, Ferrier KL, Lapôtre M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. perron@mit.edu

Branching river networks are one of the most widespread and recognizable features
of Earth's landscapes and have also been discovered elsewhere in the Solar
System. But the mechanisms that create these patterns and control their spatial
scales are poorly understood. Theories based on probability or optimality have
proven useful, but do not explain how river networks develop over time through
erosion and sediment transport. Here we show that branching at the uppermost
reaches of river networks is rooted in two coupled instabilities: first, valleys 
widen at the expense of their smaller neighbours, and second, side slopes of the 
widening valleys become susceptible to channel incision. Each instability occurs 
at a critical ratio of the characteristic timescales for soil transport and
channel incision. Measurements from two field sites demonstrate that our theory
correctly predicts the size of the smallest valleys with tributaries. We also
show that the dominant control on the scale of landscape dissection in these
sites is the strength of channel incision, which correlates with aridity and rock
weakness, rather than the strength of soil transport. These results imply that
the fine-scale structure of branching river networks is an organized signature of
erosional mechanics, not a consequence of random topology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11672 
PMID: 23222614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11615.

Controlled-reflectance surfaces with film-coupled colloidal nanoantennas.

Moreau A(1), Ciracì C, Mock JJ, Hill RT, Wang Q, Wiley BJ, Chilkoti A, Smith DR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics, Duke University, Durham,
North Carolina 27708, USA.

Efficient and tunable absorption is essential for a variety of applications, such
as designing controlled-emissivity surfaces for thermophotovoltaic devices,
tailoring an infrared spectrum for controlled thermal dissipation and producing
detector elements for imaging. Metamaterials based on metallic elements are
particularly efficient as absorbing media, because both the electrical and the
magnetic properties of a metamaterial can be tuned by structured design. So far, 
metamaterial absorbers in the infrared or visible range have been fabricated
using lithographically patterned metallic structures, making them inherently
difficult to produce over large areas and hence reducing their applicability.
Here we demonstrate a simple method to create a metamaterial absorber by randomly
adsorbing chemically synthesized silver nanocubes onto a nanoscale-thick polymer 
spacer layer on a gold film, making no effort to control the spatial arrangement 
of the cubes on the film. We show that the film-coupled nanocubes provide a
reflectance spectrum that can be tailored by varying the geometry (the size of
the cubes and/or the thickness of the spacer). Each nanocube is the optical
analogue of a grounded patch antenna, with a nearly identical local field
structure that is modified by the plasmonic response of the metal's dielectric
function, and with an anomalously large absorption efficiency that can be partly 
attributed to an interferometric effect. The absorptivity of large surface areas 
can be controlled using this method, at scales out of reach of lithographic
approaches (such as electron-beam lithography) that are otherwise required to
manipulate matter on the nanoscale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11615 
PMCID: PMC3584706
PMID: 23222613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):83-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11610.

A ∼0.2-solar-mass protostar with a Keplerian disk in the very young L1527 IRS
system.

Tobin JJ(1), Hartmann L, Chiang HF, Wilner DJ, Looney LW, Loinard L, Calvet N,
D'Alessio P.

Author information: 
(1)National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903, USA.
jtobin@nrao.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):52-3.

In their earliest stages, protostars accrete mass from their surrounding
envelopes through circumstellar disks. Until now, the smallest observed
protostar-to-envelope mass ratio was about 2.1 (ref. 1). The protostar L1527 IRS 
is thought to be in the earliest stages of star formation. Its envelope contains 
about one solar mass of material within a radius of about 0.05 parsecs (refs 3,
4), and earlier observations suggested the presence of an edge-on disk. Here we
report observations of dust continuum emission and (13)CO (rotational quantum
number J = 2 → 1) line emission from the disk around L1527 IRS, from which we
determine a protostellar mass of 0.19 ± 0.04 solar masses and a
protostar-to-envelope mass ratio of about 0.2. We conclude that most of the
luminosity is generated through the accretion process, with an accretion rate of 
about 6.6 × 10(-7) solar masses per year. If it has been accreting at that rate
through much of its life, its age is approximately 300,000 years, although theory
suggests larger accretion rates earlier, so it may be younger. The presence of a 
rotationally supported disk is confirmed, and significantly more mass may be
added to its planet-forming region as well as to the protostar itself in the
future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11610 
PMID: 23222612 


92. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature11612.

Extremely metal-poor gas at a redshift of 7.

Simcoe RA(1), Sullivan PW, Cooksey KL, Kao MM, Matejek MS, Burgasser AJ.

Author information: 
(1)MIT-Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, 77 Massachusetts
Avenue, Building 37, Room 664L, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
simcoe@space.mit.edu

In typical astrophysical environments, the abundance of heavy elements ranges
from 0.001 to 2 times the solar value. Lower abundances have been seen in
selected stars in the Milky Way's halo and in two quasar absorption systems at
redshift z = 3 (ref. 4). These are widely interpreted as relics from the early
Universe, when all gas possessed a primordial chemistry. Before now there have
been no direct abundance measurements from the first billion years after the Big 
Bang, when the earliest stars began synthesizing elements. Here we report
observations of hydrogen and heavy-element absorption in a spectrum of a quasar
at z =  7.04, when the Universe was just 772 million years old (5.6 per cent of
its present age). We detect a large column of neutral hydrogen but no
corresponding metals (defined as elements heavier than helium), limiting the
chemical abundance to less than 1/10,000 times the solar level if the gas is in a
gravitationally bound proto-galaxy, or to less than 1/1,000 times the solar value
if it is diffuse and unbound. If the absorption is truly intergalactic, it would 
imply that the Universe was neither ionized by starlight nor chemically enriched 
in this neighbourhood at z ≈ 7. If it is gravitationally bound, the inferred
abundance is too low to promote efficient cooling, and the system would be a
viable site to form the predicted but as yet unobserved massive population III
stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11612 
PMID: 23222611 


93. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):72-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11649.

The entorhinal grid map is discretized.

Stensola H(1), Stensola T, Solstad T, Frøland K, Moser MB, Moser EI.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for the Biology of Memory,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway.
hanne.stensola@ntnu.no

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 Mar 4;23(5):R204-6.

The medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) is part of the brain's circuit for dynamic
representation of self-location. The metric of this representation is provided by
grid cells, cells with spatial firing fields that tile environments in a periodic
hexagonal pattern. Limited anatomical sampling has obscured whether the grid
system operates as a unified system or a conglomerate of independent modules.
Here we show with recordings from up to 186 grid cells in individual rats that
grid cells cluster into a small number of layer-spanning anatomically overlapping
modules with distinct scale, orientation, asymmetry and theta-frequency
modulation. These modules can respond independently to changes in the geometry of
the environment. The discrete topography of the grid-map, and the apparent
autonomy of the modules, differ from the graded topography of maps for continuous
variables in several sensory systems, raising the possibility that the modularity
of the grid map is a product of local self-organizing network dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11649 
PMID: 23222610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):95-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11680. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Practical and innate carbon-hydrogen functionalization of heterocycles.

Fujiwara Y(1), Dixon JA, O'Hara F, Funder ED, Dixon DD, Rodriguez RA, Baxter RD, 
Herlé B, Sach N, Collins MR, Ishihara Y, Baran PS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):45-6.

Nitrogen-rich heterocyclic compounds have had a profound effect on human health
because these chemical motifs are found in a large number of drugs used to combat
a broad range of diseases and pathophysiological conditions. Advances in
transition-metal-mediated cross-coupling have simplified the synthesis of such
molecules; however, C-H functionalization of medicinally important heterocycles
that does not rely on pre-functionalized starting materials is an underdeveloped 
area. Unfortunately, the innate properties of heterocycles that make them so
desirable for biological applications--such as aqueous solubility and their
ability to act as ligands--render them challenging substrates for direct chemical
functionalization. Here we report that zinc sulphinate salts can be used to
transfer alkyl radicals to heterocycles, allowing for the mild (moderate
temperature, 50 °C or less), direct and operationally simple formation of
medicinally relevant C-C bonds while reacting in a complementary fashion to other
innate C-H functionalization methods (Minisci, borono-Minisci, electrophilic
aromatic substitution, transition-metal-mediated C-H insertion and C-H
deprotonation). We prepared a toolkit of these reagents and studied their
reactivity across a wide range of heterocycles (natural products, drugs and
building blocks) without recourse to protecting-group chemistry. The reagents can
even be used in tandem fashion in a single pot in the presence of water and air.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11680 
PMCID: PMC3518649
PMID: 23201691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11652. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Continuous gas-phase synthesis of nanowires with tunable properties.

Heurlin M(1), Magnusson MH, Lindgren D, Ek M, Wallenberg LR, Deppert K, Samuelson
L.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Solid State Physics, Lund University, 22100 Lund, Sweden.

Semiconductor nanowires are key building blocks for the next generation of
light-emitting diodes, solar cells and batteries. To fabricate functional
nanowire-based devices on an industrial scale requires an efficient methodology
that enables the mass production of nanowires with perfect crystallinity,
reproducible and controlled dimensions and material composition, and low cost. So
far there have been no reports of reliable methods that can satisfy all of these 
requirements. Here we show how aerotaxy, an aerosol-based growth method, can be
used to grow nanowires continuously with controlled nanoscale dimensions, a high 
degree of crystallinity and at a remarkable growth rate. In our aerotaxy
approach, catalytic size-selected Au aerosol particles induce nucleation and
growth of GaAs nanowires with a growth rate of about 1 micrometre per second,
which is 20 to 1,000 times higher than previously reported for traditional,
substrate-based growth of nanowires made of group III-V materials. We demonstrate
that the method allows sensitive and reproducible control of the nanowire
dimensions and shape--and, thus, controlled optical and electronic
properties--through the variation of growth temperature, time and Au particle
size. Photoluminescence measurements reveal that even as-grown nanowires have
good optical properties and excellent spectral uniformity. Detailed transmission 
electron microscopy investigations show that our aerotaxy-grown nanowires form
along one of the four equivalent〈111〉B crystallographic directions in the
zincblende unit cell, which is also the preferred growth direction for III-V
nanowires seeded by Au particles on a single-crystal substrate. The reported
continuous and potentially high-throughput method can be expected substantially
to reduce the cost of producing high-quality nanowires and may enable the
low-cost fabrication of nanowire-based devices on an industrial scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11652 
PMID: 23201685 


96. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):59-65. doi: 10.1038/nature11681. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

Algal genomes reveal evolutionary mosaicism and the fate of nucleomorphs.

Curtis BA(1), Tanifuji G, Burki F, Gruber A, Irimia M, Maruyama S, Arias MC, Ball
SG, Gile GH, Hirakawa Y, Hopkins JF, Kuo A, Rensing SA, Schmutz J, Symeonidi A,
Elias M, Eveleigh RJ, Herman EK, Klute MJ, Nakayama T, Oborník M, Reyes-Prieto A,
Armbrust EV, Aves SJ, Beiko RG, Coutinho P, Dacks JB, Durnford DG, Fast NM, Green
BR, Grisdale CJ, Hempel F, Henrissat B, Höppner MP, Ishida K, Kim E, Kořený L,
Kroth PG, Liu Y, Malik SB, Maier UG, McRose D, Mock T, Neilson JA, Onodera NT,
Poole AM, Pritham EJ, Richards TA, Rocap G, Roy SW, Sarai C, Schaack S, Shirato
S, Slamovits CH, Spencer DF, Suzuki S, Worden AZ, Zauner S, Barry K, Bell C,
Bharti AK, Crow JA, Grimwood J, Kramer R, Lindquist E, Lucas S, Salamov A,
McFadden GI, Lane CE, Keeling PJ, Gray MW, Grigoriev IV, Archibald JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University,
Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 4R2, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):46-8.

Cryptophyte and chlorarachniophyte algae are transitional forms in the widespread
secondary endosymbiotic acquisition of photosynthesis by engulfment of eukaryotic
algae. Unlike most secondary plastid-bearing algae, miniaturized versions of the 
endosymbiont nuclei (nucleomorphs) persist in cryptophytes and
chlorarachniophytes. To determine why, and to address other fundamental questions
about eukaryote-eukaryote endosymbiosis, we sequenced the nuclear genomes of the 
cryptophyte Guillardia theta and the chlorarachniophyte Bigelowiella natans. Both
genomes have >21,000 protein genes and are intron rich, and B. natans exhibits
unprecedented alternative splicing for a single-celled organism. Phylogenomic
analyses and subcellular targeting predictions reveal extensive genetic and
biochemical mosaicism, with both host- and endosymbiont-derived genes servicing
the mitochondrion, the host cell cytosol, the plastid and the remnant
endosymbiont cytosol of both algae. Mitochondrion-to-nucleus gene transfer still 
occurs in both organisms but plastid-to-nucleus and nucleomorph-to-nucleus
transfers do not, which explains why a small residue of essential genes remains
locked in each nucleomorph.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11681 
PMID: 23201678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):66-71. doi: 10.1038/nature11712. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Non-synaptic inhibition between grouped neurons in an olfactory circuit.

Su CY(1), Menuz K, Reisert J, Carlson JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):44-5.

Diverse sensory organs, including mammalian taste buds and insect chemosensory
sensilla, show a marked compartmentalization of receptor cells; however, the
functional impact of this organization remains unclear. Here we show that
compartmentalized Drosophila olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) communicate with
each other directly. The sustained response of one ORN is inhibited by the
transient activation of a neighbouring ORN. Mechanistically, such lateral
inhibition does not depend on synapses and is probably mediated by ephaptic
coupling. Moreover, lateral inhibition in the periphery can modulate olfactory
behaviour. Together, the results show that integration of olfactory information
can occur via lateral interactions between ORNs. Inhibition of a sustained
response by a transient response may provide a means of encoding salience.
Finally, a CO(2)-sensitive ORN in the malaria mosquito Anopheles can also be
inhibited by excitation of an adjacent ORN, suggesting a broad occurrence of
lateral inhibition in insects and possible applications in insect control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11712 
PMCID: PMC3518700
PMID: 23172146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):138-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11692. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

An alternative route to cyclic terpenes by reductive cyclization in iridoid
biosynthesis.

Geu-Flores F(1), Sherden NH, Courdavault V, Burlat V, Glenn WS, Wu C, Nims E, Cui
Y, O'Connor SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, John Innes Centre, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):50-1.

The iridoids comprise a large family of distinctive bicyclic monoterpenes that
possess a wide range of pharmacological activities, including anticancer,
anti-inflammatory, antifungal and antibacterial activities. Additionally, certain
iridoids are used as sex pheromones in agriculturally important species of
aphids, a fact that has underpinned innovative and integrated pest management
strategies. To harness the biotechnological potential of this natural product
class, the enzymes involved in the biosynthetic pathway must be elucidated. Here 
we report the discovery of iridoid synthase, a plant-derived enzyme that
generates the iridoid ring scaffold, as evidenced by biochemical assays, gene
silencing, co-expression analysis and localization studies. In contrast to all
known monoterpene cyclases, which use geranyl diphosphate as substrate and invoke
a cationic intermediate, iridoid synthase uses the linear monoterpene
10-oxogeranial as substrate and probably couples an initial NAD(P)H-dependent
reduction step with a subsequent cyclization step via a Diels-Alder cycloaddition
or a Michael addition. Our results illustrate how a short-chain reductase was
recruited as cyclase for the production of iridoids in medicinal plants.
Furthermore, we highlight the prospects of using unrelated reductases to generate
artificial cyclic scaffolds. Beyond the recognition of an alternative biochemical
mechanism for the biosynthesis of cyclic terpenes, we anticipate that our work
will enable the large-scale heterologous production of iridoids in plants and
microorganisms for agricultural and pharmaceutical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11692 
PMID: 23172143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11623. Epub 2012 Nov 18.

Fucose sensing regulates bacterial intestinal colonization.

Pacheco AR(1), Curtis MM, Ritchie JM, Munera D, Waldor MK, Moreira CG, Sperandio 
V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390-9048, USA.

The mammalian gastrointestinal tract provides a complex and competitive
environment for the microbiota. Successful colonization by pathogens requires
scavenging nutrients, sensing chemical signals, competing with the resident
bacteria and precisely regulating the expression of virulence genes. The
gastrointestinal pathogen enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) relies on
inter-kingdom chemical sensing systems to regulate virulence gene expression.
Here we show that these systems control the expression of a novel two-component
signal transduction system, named FusKR, where FusK is the histidine sensor
kinase and FusR the response regulator. FusK senses fucose and controls
expression of virulence and metabolic genes. This fucose-sensing system is
required for robust EHEC colonization of the mammalian intestine. Fucose is
highly abundant in the intestine. Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron produces multiple 
fucosidases that cleave fucose from host glycans, resulting in high fucose
availability in the gut lumen. During growth in mucin, B. thetaiotaomicron
contributes to EHEC virulence by cleaving fucose from mucin, thereby activating
the FusKR signalling cascade, modulating the virulence gene expression of EHEC.
Our findings suggest that EHEC uses fucose, a host-derived signal made available 
by the microbiota, to modulate EHEC pathogenicity and metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11623 
PMCID: PMC3518558
PMID: 23160491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11588. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

The calcium-sensing receptor regulates the NLRP3 inflammasome through Ca2+ and
cAMP.

Lee GS(1), Subramanian N, Kim AI, Aksentijevich I, Goldbach-Mansky R, Sacks DB,
Germain RN, Kastner DL, Chae JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Inflammatory Disease Section, Medical Genetics Branch, National Human Genome
Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 Jan;13(1):1.

Mutations in the gene encoding NLRP3 cause a spectrum of autoinflammatory
diseases known as cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS). NLRP3 is a key 
component of one of several distinct cytoplasmic multiprotein complexes
(inflammasomes) that mediate the maturation of the proinflammatory cytokine
interleukin-1β (IL-1β) by activating caspase-1. Although several models for
inflammasome activation, such as K(+) efflux, generation of reactive oxygen
species and lysosomal destabilization, have been proposed, the precise molecular 
mechanism of NLRP3 inflammasome activation, as well as the mechanism by which
CAPS-associated mutations activate NLRP3, remain to be elucidated. Here we show
that the murine calcium-sensing receptor (CASR) activates the NLRP3 inflammasome,
mediated by increased intracellular Ca(2+) and decreased cellular cyclic AMP
(cAMP). Ca(2+) or other CASR agonists activate the NLRP3 inflammasome in the
absence of exogenous ATP, whereas knockdown of CASR reduces inflammasome
activation in response to known NLRP3 activators. CASR activates the NLRP3
inflammasome through phospholipase C, which catalyses
inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate production and thereby induces release of Ca(2+)
from endoplasmic reticulum stores. The increased cytoplasmic Ca(2+) promotes the 
assembly of inflammasome components, and intracellular Ca(2+) is required for
spontaneous inflammasome activity in cells from patients with CAPS. CASR
stimulation also results in reduced intracellular cAMP, which independently
activates the NLRP3 inflammasome. cAMP binds to NLRP3 directly to inhibit
inflammasome assembly, and downregulation of cAMP relieves this inhibition. The
binding affinity of cAMP for CAPS-associated mutant NLRP3 is substantially lower 
than for wild-type NLRP3, and the uncontrolled mature IL-1β production from CAPS 
patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells is attenuated by increasing cAMP.
Taken together, these findings indicate that Ca(2+) and cAMP are two key
molecular regulators of the NLRP3 inflammasome that have critical roles in the
molecular pathogenesis of CAPS.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11588 
PMCID: PMC4175565
PMID: 23143333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11590. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Structure of a force-conveying cadherin bond essential for inner-ear
mechanotransduction.

Sotomayor M(1), Weihofen WA, Gaudet R, Corey DP.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Neurobiology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Hearing and balance use hair cells in the inner ear to transform mechanical
stimuli into electrical signals. Mechanical force from sound waves or head
movements is conveyed to hair-cell transduction channels by tip links, fine
filaments formed by two atypical cadherins known as protocadherin 15 and cadherin
23 (refs 4, 5). These two proteins are involved in inherited deafness and feature
long extracellular domains that interact tip-to-tip in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner.
However, the molecular architecture of this complex is unknown. Here we combine
crystallography, molecular dynamics simulations and binding experiments to
characterize the protocadherin 15-cadherin 23 bond. We find a unique cadherin
interaction mechanism, in which the two most amino-terminal cadherin repeats
(extracellular cadherin repeats 1 and 2) of each protein interact to form an
overlapped, antiparallel heterodimer. Simulations predict that this tip-link bond
is mechanically strong enough to resist forces in hair cells. In addition, the
complex is shown to become unstable in response to Ca(2+) removal owing to
increased flexure of Ca(2+)-free cadherin repeats. Finally, we use structures and
biochemical measurements to study the molecular mechanisms by which deafness
mutations disrupt tip-link function. Overall, our results shed light on the
molecular mechanics of hair-cell sensory transduction and on new interaction
mechanisms for cadherins, a large protein family implicated in tissue and organ
morphogenesis, neural connectivity and cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11590 
PMCID: PMC3518760
PMID: 23135401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11589. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Identification of a rudimentary neural crest in a non-vertebrate chordate.

Abitua PB(1), Wagner E, Navarrete IA, Levine M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Genomics, Division of Genetics, Genomics and
Development, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, 
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Neural crest arises at the neural plate border, expresses a core set of
regulatory genes and produces a diverse array of cell types, including
ectomesenchyme derivatives that elaborate the vertebrate head. The evolution of
neural crest has been proposed to be a key event leading to the appearance of new
cell types that fostered the transition from filter feeding to active predation
in ancestral vertebrates. However, the origin of neural crest remains
controversial, as homologous cell types have not been unambiguously identified in
non-vertebrate chordates. Here we show that the tunicate Ciona intestinalis
possesses a cephalic melanocyte lineage (a9.49) similar to neural crest that can 
be reprogrammed into migrating 'ectomesenchyme' by the targeted misexpression of 
Twist (also known as twist-like 2). Our results suggest that the neural crest
melanocyte regulatory network pre-dated the divergence of tunicates and
vertebrates. We propose that the co-option of mesenchyme determinants, such as
Twist, into the neural plate ectoderm was crucial to the emergence of the
vertebrate 'new head'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11589 
PMCID: PMC4257486
PMID: 23135395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):118-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11604. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

HIV therapy by a combination of broadly neutralizing antibodies in humanized
mice.

Klein F(1), Halper-Stromberg A(#)(1), Horwitz JA(#)(1), Gruell H(1)(2), Scheid
JF(1)(3), Bournazos S(4), Mouquet H(1), Spatz LA(1)(5), Diskin R(6), Abadir A(1),
Zang T(7), Dorner M(8), Billerbeck E(8), Labitt RN(8), Gaebler C(1)(9),
Marcovecchio P(6), Incesu RB(1), Eisenreich TR(1), Bieniasz PD(7)(10), Seaman
MS(11), Bjorkman PJ(6)(10), Ravetch JV(4), Ploss A(8), Nussenzweig MC(1)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, The Rockefeller University; New York, New 
York 10065; United States.
(2)Medizinische Fakultät, Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster; D-48149
Münster; Germany.
(3)Charite Universitätsmedizin; D-10117 Berlin; Germany.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Immunology, The Rockefeller University;
New York, New York 10065; United States.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Sophie Davis School of Biomedical
Education, The City College of New York; New York, New York 10031; United States.
(6)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology; Pasadena, CA 91125;
United States.
(7)Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, Laboratory of Retrovirology, The
Rockefeller University; New York, New York 10065; United States.
(8)Laboratory of Virology and Infectious Diseases, The Rockefeller University;
New York, New York 10065; United States.
(9)Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden; D-01307
Dresden; Germany.
(10)Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
(11)Beth Israel Deaconess Med. Ctr.; Boston, MA 02215; United States.
(#)Contributed equally

Human antibodies to human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) can neutralize a broad
range of viral isolates in vitro and protect non-human primates against
infection. Previous work showed that antibodies exert selective pressure on the
virus but escape variants emerge within a short period of time. However, these
experiments were performed before the recent discovery of more potent anti-HIV-1 
antibodies and their improvement by structure-based design. Here we re-examine
passive antibody transfer as a therapeutic modality in HIV-1-infected humanized
mice. Although HIV-1 can escape from antibody monotherapy, combinations of
broadly neutralizing antibodies can effectively control HIV-1 infection and
suppress viral load to levels below detection. Moreover, in contrast to
antiretroviral therapy, the longer half-life of antibodies led to control of
viraemia for an average of 60 days after cessation of therapy. Thus, combinations
of potent monoclonal antibodies can effectively control HIV-1 replication in
humanized mice, and should be re-examined as a therapeutic modality in
HIV-1-infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11604 
PMCID: PMC3809838
PMID: 23103874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):133-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11607. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

B12 cofactors directly stabilize an mRNA regulatory switch.

Johnson JE Jr(1), Reyes FE, Polaski JT, Batey RT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Colorado at Boulder,
Boulder, Colorado 80309-0596, USA.

Structures of riboswitch receptor domains bound to their effector have shown how 
messenger RNAs recognize diverse small molecules, but mechanistic details linking
the structures to the regulation of gene expression remain elusive. To address
this, here we solve crystal structures of two different classes of cobalamin
(vitamin B(12))-binding riboswitches that include the structural switch of the
downstream regulatory domain. These classes share a common cobalamin-binding
core, but use distinct peripheral extensions to recognize different B(12)
derivatives. In each case, recognition is accomplished through shape
complementarity between the RNA and cobalamin, with relatively few hydrogen
bonding interactions that typically govern RNA-small molecule recognition. We
show that a composite cobalamin-RNA scaffold stabilizes an unusual long-range
intramolecular kissing-loop interaction that controls mRNA expression. This is
the first, to our knowledge, riboswitch crystal structure detailing how the
receptor and regulatory domains communicate in a ligand-dependent fashion to
regulate mRNA expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11607 
PMCID: PMC3518761
PMID: 23064232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11606. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

EZH2 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for lymphoma with EZH2-activating
mutations.

McCabe MT(1), Ott HM, Ganji G, Korenchuk S, Thompson C, Van Aller GS, Liu Y,
Graves AP, Della Pietra A 3rd, Diaz E, LaFrance LV, Mellinger M, Duquenne C, Tian
X, Kruger RG, McHugh CF, Brandt M, Miller WH, Dhanak D, Verma SK, Tummino PJ,
Creasy CL.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Epigenetics Discovery Performance Unit, Cancer Research, Oncology R&D, 
GlaxoSmithKline, 1250 S. Collegeville Road, Collegeville, Pennsylvania 19426,
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Dec;12(12):798.

In eukaryotes, post-translational modification of histones is critical for
regulation of chromatin structure and gene expression. EZH2 is the catalytic
subunit of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) and is involved in repressing
gene expression through methylation of histone H3 on lysine 27 (H3K27). EZH2
overexpression is implicated in tumorigenesis and correlates with poor prognosis 
in several tumour types. Additionally, somatic heterozygous mutations of Y641 and
A677 residues within the catalytic SET domain of EZH2 occur in diffuse large
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and follicular lymphoma. The Y641 residue is the most
frequently mutated residue, with up to 22% of germinal centre B-cell DLBCL and
follicular lymphoma harbouring mutations at this site. These lymphomas have
increased H3K27 tri-methylation (H3K27me3) owing to altered substrate preferences
of the mutant enzymes. However, it is unknown whether specific, direct inhibition
of EZH2 methyltransferase activity will be effective in treating EZH2 mutant
lymphomas. Here we demonstrate that GSK126, a potent, highly selective,
S-adenosyl-methionine-competitive, small-molecule inhibitor of EZH2
methyltransferase activity, decreases global H3K27me3 levels and reactivates
silenced PRC2 target genes. GSK126 effectively inhibits the proliferation of EZH2
mutant DLBCL cell lines and markedly inhibits the growth of EZH2 mutant DLBCL
xenografts in mice. Together, these data demonstrate that pharmacological
inhibition of EZH2 activity may provide a promising treatment for EZH2 mutant
lymphoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11606 
PMID: 23051747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):736-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11613.

Observing the drop of resistance in the flow of a superfluid Fermi gas.

Stadler D(1), Krinner S, Meineke J, Brantut JP, Esslinger T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Electronics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):681-2.

The ability of particles to flow with very low resistance is characteristic of
superfluid and superconducting states, leading to their discovery in the past
century. Although measuring the particle flow in liquid helium or superconducting
materials is essential to identify superfluidity or superconductivity, no
analogous measurement has been performed for superfluids based on ultracold Fermi
gases. Here we report direct measurements of the conduction properties of
strongly interacting fermions, observing the well-known drop in resistance that
is associated with the onset of superfluidity. By varying the depth of the
trapping potential in a narrow channel connecting two atomic reservoirs, we
observed variations of the atomic current over several orders of magnitude. We
related the intrinsic conduction properties to the thermodynamic functions in a
model-independent way, by making use of high-resolution in situ imaging in
combination with current measurements. Our results show that, as in solid-state
systems, current and resistance measurements in quantum gases provide a sensitive
probe with which to explore many-body physics. Our method is closely analogous to
the operation of a solid-state field-effect transistor and could be applied as a 
probe for optical lattices and disordered systems, paving the way for modelling
complex superconducting devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11613 
PMID: 23192151 


107. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):732-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11611.

Active upper-atmosphere chemistry and dynamics from polar circulation reversal on
Titan.

Teanby NA(1), Irwin PG, Nixon CA, de Kok R, Vinatier S, Coustenis A, Sefton-Nash 
E, Calcutt SB, Flasar FM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building,
Queen's Road, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK. n.teanby@bristol.ac.uk

Saturn's moon Titan has a nitrogen atmosphere comparable to Earth's, with a
surface pressure of 1.4 bar. Numerical models reproduce the tropospheric
conditions very well but have trouble explaining the observed middle-atmosphere
temperatures, composition and winds. The top of the middle-atmosphere circulation
has been thought to lie at an altitude of 450 to 500 kilometres, where there is a
layer of haze that appears to be separated from the main haze deck. This
'detached' haze was previously explained as being due to the co-location of peak 
haze production and the limit of dynamical transport by the circulation's upper
branch. Here we report a build-up of trace gases over the south pole
approximately two years after observing the 2009 post-equinox circulation
reversal, from which we conclude that middle-atmosphere circulation must extend
to an altitude of at least 600 kilometres. The primary drivers of this
circulation are summer-hemisphere heating of haze by absorption of solar
radiation and winter-hemisphere cooling due to infrared emission by haze and
trace gases; our results therefore imply that these effects are important well
into the thermosphere (altitudes higher than 500 kilometres). This requires both 
active upper-atmosphere chemistry, consistent with the detection of
high-complexity molecules and ions at altitudes greater than 950 kilometres, and 
an alternative explanation for the detached haze, such as a transition in haze
particle growth from monomers to fractal structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11611 
PMID: 23192150 


108. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):729-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11592.

An over-massive black hole in the compact lenticular galaxy NGC 1277.

van den Bosch RC(1), Gebhardt K, Gültekin K, van de Ven G, van der Wel A, Walsh
JL.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany. bosch@mpia.de

Most massive galaxies have supermassive black holes at their centres, and the
masses of the black holes are believed to correlate with properties of the
host-galaxy bulge component. Several explanations have been proposed for the
existence of these locally established empirical relationships, including the
non-causal, statistical process of galaxy-galaxy merging, direct feedback between
the black hole and its host galaxy, and galaxy-galaxy merging and the subsequent 
violent relaxation and dissipation. The empirical scaling relations are therefore
important for distinguishing between various theoretical models of galaxy
evolution, and they furthermore form the basis for all black-hole mass
measurements at large distances. Observations have shown that the mass of the
black hole is typically 0.1 per cent of the mass of the stellar bulge of the
galaxy. Until now, the galaxy with the largest known fraction of its mass in its 
central black hole (11 per cent) was the small galaxy NGC 4486B. Here we report
observations of the stellar kinematics of NGC 1277, which is a compact,
lenticular galaxy with a mass of 1.2 × 10(11) solar masses. From the data, we
determine that the mass of the central black hole is 1.7 × 10(10) solar masses,
or 59 per cent of its bulge mass. We also show observations of five other compact
galaxies that have properties similar to NGC 1277 and therefore may also contain 
over-massive black holes. It is not yet known if these galaxies represent a tail 
of a distribution, or if disk-dominated galaxies fail to follow the usual
black-hole mass scaling relations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11592 
PMID: 23192149 


109. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):705-10. doi: 10.1038/nature11650.

Analysis of the bread wheat genome using whole-genome shotgun sequencing.

Brenchley R(1), Spannagl M, Pfeifer M, Barker GL, D'Amore R, Allen AM, McKenzie
N, Kramer M, Kerhornou A, Bolser D, Kay S, Waite D, Trick M, Bancroft I, Gu Y,
Huo N, Luo MC, Sehgal S, Gill B, Kianian S, Anderson O, Kersey P, Dvorak J,
McCombie WR, Hall A, Mayer KF, Edwards KJ, Bevan MW, Hall N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Genome Research, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):678-80.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2013 Jan;14(1):6.

Bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) is a globally important crop, accounting for 20
per cent of the calories consumed by humans. Major efforts are underway worldwide
to increase wheat production by extending genetic diversity and analysing key
traits, and genomic resources can accelerate progress. But so far the very large 
size and polyploid complexity of the bread wheat genome have been substantial
barriers to genome analysis. Here we report the sequencing of its large,
17-gigabase-pair, hexaploid genome using 454 pyrosequencing, and comparison of
this with the sequences of diploid ancestral and progenitor genomes. We
identified between 94,000 and 96,000 genes, and assigned two-thirds to the three 
component genomes (A, B and D) of hexaploid wheat. High-resolution synteny maps
identified many small disruptions to conserved gene order. We show that the
hexaploid genome is highly dynamic, with significant loss of gene family members 
on polyploidization and domestication, and an abundance of gene fragments.
Several classes of genes involved in energy harvesting, metabolism and growth are
among expanded gene families that could be associated with crop productivity. Our
analyses, coupled with the identification of extensive genetic variation, provide
a resource for accelerating gene discovery and improving this major crop.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11650 
PMCID: PMC3510651
PMID: 23192148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):698-704. doi: 10.1038/nature11678.

The global pattern of trace-element distributions in ocean floor basalts.

O'Neill HS(1), Jenner FE.

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Earth Sciences, Australian National University, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia. hugh.oneill@anu.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):677-8.

The magmatic layers of the oceanic crust are created at constructive plate
margins by partial melting of the mantle as it wells up. The chemistry of ocean
floor basalts, the most accessible product of this magmatism, is studied for the 
insights it yields into the compositional heterogeneity of the mantle and its
thermal structure. However, before eruption, parental magma compositions are
modified at crustal pressures by a process that has usually been assumed to be
fractional crystallization. Here we show that the global distributions of trace
elements in ocean floor basalts describe a systematic pattern that cannot be
explained by simple fractional crystallization alone, but is due to cycling of
magma through the global ensemble of magma chambers. Variability in both major
and incompatible trace-element contents about the average global pattern is due
to fluctuations in the magma fluxes into and out of the chambers, and their
depth, as well as to differences in the composition of the parental magmas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11678 
PMID: 23192147 


111. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):692-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11579.

The mystery of recent stratospheric temperature trends.

Thompson DW(1), Seidel DJ, Randel WJ, Zou CZ, Butler AH, Mears C, Osso A, Long C,
Lin R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
Colorado 80523, USA. davet@atmos.colostate.edu

A new data set of middle- and upper-stratospheric temperatures based on
reprocessing of satellite radiances provides a view of stratospheric climate
change during the period 1979-2005 that is strikingly different from that
provided by earlier data sets. The new data call into question our understanding 
of observed stratospheric temperature trends and our ability to test simulations 
of the stratospheric response to emissions of greenhouse gases and
ozone-depleting substances. Here we highlight the important issues raised by the 
new data and suggest how the climate science community can resolve them.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11579 
PMID: 23192146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):683-91. doi: 10.1038/nature11574.

Making sense of palaeoclimate sensitivity.

PALAEOSENS Project Members.

Collaborators: Rohling E, Sluijs A, Dijkstra H, Köhler P, van de Wal RS, von der 
Heydt A, Beerling D, Berger A, Bijl P, Crucifix M, DeConto R, Drijfhout S,
Fedorov A, Foster G, Ganopolski A, Hansen J, Hönisch B, Hooghiemstra H, Huber M, 
Huybers P, Knutti R, Lea D, Lourens LJ, Lunt D, Masson-Delmotte V,
Medina-Elizalde M, Otto-Bliesner B, Pagani M, Pälike H, Renssen H, Royer D,
Siddall M, Valdes P, Zachos JC, Zeebe RE.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 7;494(7435):130. Masson-Demotte, V [corrected to
Masson-Delmotte, V].

Many palaeoclimate studies have quantified pre-anthropogenic climate change to
calculate climate sensitivity (equilibrium temperature change in response to
radiative forcing change), but a lack of consistent methodologies produces a wide
range of estimates and hinders comparability of results. Here we present a
stricter approach, to improve intercomparison of palaeoclimate sensitivity
estimates in a manner compatible with equilibrium projections for future climate 
change. Over the past 65 million years, this reveals a climate sensitivity (in
K W(-1) m(2)) of 0.3-1.9 or 0.6-1.3 at 95% or 68% probability, respectively. The 
latter implies a warming of 2.2-4.8 K per doubling of atmospheric CO(2), which
agrees with IPCC estimates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11574 
PMID: 23192145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):740-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11609. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

A canonical stability-elasticity relationship verified for one million
face-centred-cubic structures.

Maisel SB(1), Höfler M, Müller S.

Author information: 
(1)Hamburg University of Technology, Institute of Advanced Ceramics,
Denickestraße 15, 21073 Hamburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):674-5.

Any thermodynamically stable or metastable phase corresponds to a local minimum
of a potentially very complicated energy landscape. But however complex the
crystal might be, this energy landscape is of parabolic shape near its minima.
Roughly speaking, the depth of this energy well with respect to some reference
level determines the thermodynamic stability of the system, and the steepness of 
the parabola near its minimum determines the system's elastic properties.
Although changing alloying elements and their concentrations in a given material 
to enhance certain properties dates back to the Bronze Age, the systematic search
for desirable properties in metastable atomic configurations at a fixed
stoichiometry is a very recent tool in materials design. Here we demonstrate,
using first-principles studies of four binary alloy systems, that the elastic
properties of face-centred-cubic intermetallic compounds obey certain rules. We
reach two conclusions based on calculations on a huge subset of the
face-centred-cubic configuration space. First, the stiffness and the heat of
formation are negatively correlated with a nearly constant Spearman correlation
for all concentrations. Second, the averaged stiffness of metastable
configurations at a fixed concentration decays linearly with their distance to
the ground-state line (the phase diagram of an alloy at zero Kelvin). We hope
that our methods will help to simplify the quest for new materials with optimal
properties from the vast configuration space available.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11609 
PMID: 23172142 


114. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):752-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11688. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Global convergence in the vulnerability of forests to drought.

Choat B(1), Jansen S, Brodribb TJ, Cochard H, Delzon S, Bhaskar R, Bucci SJ,
Feild TS, Gleason SM, Hacke UG, Jacobsen AL, Lens F, Maherali H, Martínez-Vilalta
J, Mayr S, Mencuccini M, Mitchell PJ, Nardini A, Pittermann J, Pratt RB, Sperry
JS, Westoby M, Wright IJ, Zanne AE.

Author information: 
(1)University of Western Sydney, Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment,
Richmond, New South Wales 2753, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):675-7.

Shifts in rainfall patterns and increasing temperatures associated with climate
change are likely to cause widespread forest decline in regions where droughts
are predicted to increase in duration and severity. One primary cause of
productivity loss and plant mortality during drought is hydraulic failure.
Drought stress creates trapped gas emboli in the water transport system, which
reduces the ability of plants to supply water to leaves for photosynthetic gas
exchange and can ultimately result in desiccation and mortality. At present we
lack a clear picture of how thresholds to hydraulic failure vary across a broad
range of species and environments, despite many individual experiments. Here we
draw together published and unpublished data on the vulnerability of the
transport system to drought-induced embolism for a large number of woody species,
with a view to examining the likely consequences of climate change for forest
biomes. We show that 70% of 226 forest species from 81 sites worldwide operate
with narrow (<1 megapascal) hydraulic safety margins against injurious levels of 
drought stress and therefore potentially face long-term reductions in
productivity and survival if temperature and aridity increase as predicted for
many regions across the globe. Safety margins are largely independent of mean
annual precipitation, showing that there is global convergence in the
vulnerability of forests to drought, with all forest biomes equally vulnerable to
hydraulic failure regardless of their current rainfall environment. These
findings provide insight into why drought-induced forest decline is occurring not
only in arid regions but also in wet forests not normally considered at drought
risk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11688 
PMID: 23172141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):744-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11593. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Rapid coupling between ice volume and polar temperature over the past
150,000 years.

Grant KM(1), Rohling EJ, Bar-Matthews M, Ayalon A, Medina-Elizalde M, Ramsey CB, 
Satow C, Roberts AP.

Author information: 
(1)School of Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton, National
Oceanography Centre, European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.

Current global warming necessitates a detailed understanding of the relationships
between climate and global ice volume. Highly resolved and continuous sea-level
records are essential for quantifying ice-volume changes. However, an unbiased
study of the timing of past ice-volume changes, relative to polar climate change,
has so far been impossible because available sea-level records either were dated 
by using orbital tuning or ice-core timescales, or were discontinuous in time.
Here we present an independent dating of a continuous, high-resolution sea-level 
record in millennial-scale detail throughout the past 150,000 years. We find that
the timing of ice-volume fluctuations agrees well with that of variations in
Antarctic climate and especially Greenland climate. Amplitudes of ice-volume
fluctuations more closely match Antarctic (rather than Greenland) climate
changes. Polar climate and ice-volume changes, and their rates of change, are
found to covary within centennial response times. Finally, rates of sea-level
rise reached at least 1.2 m per century during all major episodes of ice-volume
reduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11593 
PMID: 23151478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):756-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11584. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

The genomic landscape of species divergence in Ficedula flycatchers.

Ellegren H(1), Smeds L, Burri R, Olason PI, Backström N, Kawakami T, Künstner A, 
Mäkinen H, Nadachowska-Brzyska K, Qvarnström A, Uebbing S, Wolf JB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Evolutionary Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Norbyvägen 18D, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.

Unravelling the genomic landscape of divergence between lineages is key to
understanding speciation. The naturally hybridizing collared flycatcher and pied 
flycatcher are important avian speciation models that show pre- as well as
postzygotic isolation. We sequenced and assembled the 1.1-Gb flycatcher genome,
physically mapped the assembly to chromosomes using a low-density linkage map and
re-sequenced population samples of each species. Here we show that the genomic
landscape of species differentiation is highly heterogeneous with approximately
50 'divergence islands' showing up to 50-fold higher sequence divergence than the
genomic background. These non-randomly distributed islands, with between one and 
three regions of elevated divergence per chromosome irrespective of chromosome
size, are characterized by reduced levels of nucleotide diversity, skewed
allele-frequency spectra, elevated levels of linkage disequilibrium and reduced
proportions of shared polymorphisms in both species, indicative of parallel
episodes of selection. Proximity of divergence peaks to genomic regions resistant
to sequence assembly, potentially including centromeres and telomeres, indicate
that complex repeat structures may drive species divergence. A much higher
background level of species divergence of the Z chromosome, and a lower
proportion of shared polymorphisms, indicate that sex chromosomes and autosomes
are at different stages of speciation. This study provides a roadmap to the
emerging field of speciation genomics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11584 
PMID: 23103876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):769-73. doi: 10.1038/nature11583. Epub 2012 Oct 28.

Impaired intrinsic immunity to HSV-1 in human iPSC-derived TLR3-deficient CNS
cells.

Lafaille FG(1), Pessach IM, Zhang SY, Ciancanelli MJ, Herman M, Abhyankar A, Ying
SW, Keros S, Goldstein PA, Mostoslavsky G, Ordovas-Montanes J, Jouanguy E,
Plancoulaine S, Tu E, Elkabetz Y, Al-Muhsen S, Tardieu M, Schlaeger TM, Daley GQ,
Abel L, Casanova JL, Studer L, Notarangelo LD.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Stem Cell Biology, Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research,
New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2012 Dec 13;12(6):731-2.

In the course of primary infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), children 
with inborn errors of toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) immunity are prone to HSV-1
encephalitis (HSE). We tested the hypothesis that the pathogenesis of HSE
involves non-haematopoietic CNS-resident cells. We derived induced pluripotent
stem cells (iPSCs) from the dermal fibroblasts of TLR3- and UNC-93B-deficient
patients and from controls. These iPSCs were differentiated into highly purified 
populations of neural stem cells (NSCs), neurons, astrocytes and
oligodendrocytes. The induction of interferon-β (IFN-β) and/or IFN-λ1 in response
to stimulation by the dsRNA analogue polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) 
was dependent on TLR3 and UNC-93B in all cells tested. However, the induction of 
IFN-β and IFN-λ1 in response to HSV-1 infection was impaired selectively in
UNC-93B-deficient neurons and oligodendrocytes. These cells were also much more
susceptible to HSV-1 infection than control cells, whereas UNC-93B-deficient NSCs
and astrocytes were not. TLR3-deficient neurons were also found to be susceptible
to HSV-1 infection. The rescue of UNC-93B- and TLR3-deficient cells with the
corresponding wild-type allele showed that the genetic defect was the cause of
the poly(I:C) and HSV-1 phenotypes. The viral infection phenotype was rescued
further by treatment with exogenous IFN-α or IFN-β ( IFN-α/β) but not IFN-λ1.
Thus, impaired TLR3- and UNC-93B-dependent IFN-α/β intrinsic immunity to HSV-1 in
the CNS, in neurons and oligodendrocytes in particular, may underlie the
pathogenesis of HSE in children with TLR3-pathway deficiencies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11583 
PMCID: PMC3527075
PMID: 23103873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):761-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11587. Epub 2012 Oct 28.

A map of visual space in the primate entorhinal cortex.

Killian NJ(1), Jutras MJ, Buffalo EA.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, 954 Gatewood Road, Atlanta, Georgia
30329, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Dec;13(12):814.

Place-modulated activity among neurons in the hippocampal formation presents a
means to organize contextual information in the service of memory formation and
recall. One particular spatial representation, that of grid cells, has been
observed in the entorhinal cortex (EC) of rats and bats, but has yet to be
described in single units in primates. Here we examined spatial representations
in the EC of head-fixed monkeys performing a free-viewing visual memory task.
Individual neurons were identified in the primate EC that emitted action
potentials when the monkey fixated multiple discrete locations in the visual
field in each of many sequentially presented complex images. These firing fields 
possessed spatial periodicity similar to a triangular tiling with a corresponding
well-defined hexagonal structure in the spatial autocorrelation. Further, these
neurons showed theta-band oscillatory activity and changing spatial scale as a
function of distance from the rhinal sulcus, which is consistent with previous
findings in rodents. These spatial representations may provide a framework to
anchor the encoding of stimulus content in a complex visual scene. Together, our 
results provide a direct demonstration of grid cells in the primate and suggest
that EC neurons encode space during visual exploration, even without locomotion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11587 
PMCID: PMC3565234
PMID: 23103863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):774-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11599. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

Resurrection of endogenous retroviruses in antibody-deficient mice.

Young GR(1), Eksmond U, Salcedo R, Alexopoulou L, Stoye JP, Kassiotis G.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunoregulation, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The
Ridgeway, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Dec;12(12):805.

The mammalian host has developed a long-standing symbiotic relationship with a
considerable number of microbial species. These include the microbiota on
environmental surfaces, such as the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, and 
also endogenous retroviruses (ERVs), comprising a substantial fraction of the
mammalian genome. The long-term consequences for the host of interactions with
these microbial species can range from mutualism to parasitism and are not always
completely understood. The potential effect of one microbial symbiont on another 
is even less clear. Here we study the control of ERVs in the commonly used
C57BL/6 (B6) mouse strain, which lacks endogenous murine leukaemia viruses (MLVs)
able to replicate in murine cells. We demonstrate the spontaneous emergence of
fully infectious ecotropic MLV in B6 mice with a range of distinct immune
deficiencies affecting antibody production. These recombinant retroviruses
establish infection of immunodeficient mouse colonies, and ultimately result in
retrovirus-induced lymphomas. Notably, ERV activation in immunodeficient mice is 
prevented in husbandry conditions associated with reduced or absent intestinal
microbiota. Our results shed light onto a previously unappreciated role for
immunity in the control of ERVs and provide a potential mechanistic link between 
immune activation by microbial triggers and a range of pathologies associated
with ERVs, including cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11599 
PMCID: PMC3511586
PMID: 23103862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):779-83. doi: 10.1038/nature11580. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

Structure of the chemokine receptor CXCR1 in phospholipid bilayers.

Park SH(1), Das BB, Casagrande F, Tian Y, Nothnagel HJ, Chu M, Kiefer H, Maier K,
De Angelis AA, Marassi FM, Opella SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San Diego,
9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0307, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Dec;11(12):908.

CXCR1 is one of two high-affinity receptors for the CXC chemokine interleukin-8
(IL-8), a major mediator of immune and inflammatory responses implicated in many 
disorders, including tumour growth. IL-8, released in response to inflammatory
stimuli, binds to the extracellular side of CXCR1. The ligand-activated
intracellular signalling pathways result in neutrophil migration to the site of
inflammation. CXCR1 is a class A, rhodopsin-like G-protein-coupled receptor
(GPCR), the largest class of integral membrane proteins responsible for cellular 
signal transduction and targeted as drug receptors. Despite its importance, the
molecular mechanism of CXCR1 signal transduction is poorly understood owing to
the limited structural information available. Recent structural determination of 
GPCRs has advanced by modifying the receptors with stabilizing mutations,
insertion of the protein T4 lysozyme and truncations of their amino acid
sequences, as well as addition of stabilizing antibodies and small molecules that
facilitate crystallization in cubic phase monoolein mixtures. The intracellular
loops of GPCRs are crucial for G-protein interactions, and activation of CXCR1
involves both amino-terminal residues and extracellular loops. Our previous
nuclear magnetic resonance studies indicate that IL-8 binding to the N-terminal
residues is mediated by the membrane, underscoring the importance of the
phospholipid bilayer for physiological activity. Here we report the
three-dimensional structure of human CXCR1 determined by NMR spectroscopy. The
receptor is in liquid crystalline phospholipid bilayers, without modification of 
its amino acid sequence and under physiological conditions. Features important
for intracellular G-protein activation and signal transduction are revealed. The 
structure of human CXCR1 in a lipid bilayer should help to facilitate the
discovery of new compounds that interact with GPCRs and combat diseases such as
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11580 
PMCID: PMC3700570
PMID: 23086146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):748-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11555. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

Development of teeth and jaws in the earliest jawed vertebrates.

Rücklin M(1), Donoghue PC, Johanson Z, Trinajstic K, Marone F, Stampanoni M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building,
Queen's Road, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK. m.ruecklin@bristol.ac.uk

Teeth and jaws constitute a model of the evolutionary developmental biology
concept of modularity and they have been considered the key innovations
underpinning a classic example of adaptive radiation. However, their evolutionary
origins are much debated. Placoderms comprise an extinct sister clade or grade to
the clade containing chondrichthyans and osteichthyans, and although they clearly
possess jaws, previous studies have suggested that they lack teeth, that they
possess convergently evolved tooth-like structures or that they possess true
teeth. Here we use synchrotron radiation X-ray tomographic microscopy (SRXTM) of 
a developmental series of Compagopiscis croucheri (Arthrodira) to show that
placoderm jaws are composed of distinct cartilages and gnathal ossifications in
both jaws, and a dermal element in the lower jaw. The gnathal ossification is a
composite of distinct teeth that developed in succession, polarized along three
distinct vectors, comparable to tooth families. The teeth are composed of dentine
and bone, and show a distinct pulp cavity that is infilled centripetally as
development proceeds. This pattern is repeated in other placoderms, but differs
from the structure and development of tooth-like structures in the postbranchial 
lamina and dermal skeleton of Compagopiscis and other placoderms. We interpret
this evidence to indicate that Compagopiscis and other arthrodires possessed
teeth, but that tooth and jaw development was not developmentally or structurally
integrated in placoderms. Teeth did not evolve convergently among the extant and 
extinct classes of early jawed vertebrates but, rather, successional teeth
evolved within the gnathostome stem-lineage soon after the origin of jaws. The
chimaeric developmental origin of this model of modularity reflects the distinct 
evolutionary origins of teeth and of component elements of the jaws.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11555 
PMID: 23075852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):711-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11543. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

A physical, genetic and functional sequence assembly of the barley genome.

International Barley Genome Sequencing Consortium, Mayer KF, Waugh R, Brown JW,
Schulman A, Langridge P, Platzer M, Fincher GB, Muehlbauer GJ, Sato K, Close TJ, 
Wise RP, Stein N.

Collaborators: Mayer KF, Waugh R, Langridge P, Close TJ, Wise RP, Graner A,
Matsumoto T, Sato K, Schulman A, Muehlbauer GJ, Stein N, Ariyadasa R, Schulte D, 
Poursarebani N, Zhou R, Steuernagel B, Mascher M, Scholz U, Shi B, Langridge P,
Madishetty K, Svensson JT, Bhat P, Moscou M, Resnik J, Close TJ, Muehlbauer GJ,
Hedley P, Liu H, Morris J, Waugh R, Frenkel Z, Korol A, Bergès H, Graner A, Stein
N, Steuernagel B, Scholz U, Taudien S, Felder M, Groth M, Platzer M, Stein N,
Steuernagel B, Scholz U, Himmelbach A, Taudien S, Felder M, Platzer M, Lonardi S,
Duma D, Alpert M, Cordero F, Beccuti M, Ciardo G, Ma Y, Wanamaker S, Close TJ,
Stein N, Cattonaro F, Vendramin V, Scalabrin S, Radovic S, Wing R, Schulte D,
Steuernagel B, Morgante M, Stein N, Waugh R, Nussbaumer T, Gundlach H, Martis M, 
Ariyadasa R, Poursarebani N, Steuernagel B, Scholz U, Wise RP, Poland J, Stein N,
Mayer KF, Spannagl M, Pfeifer M, Gundlach H, Mayer KF, Gundlach H, Moisy C,
Tanskanen J, Scalabrin S, Zuccolo A, Vendramin V, Morgante M, Schulman A, Pfeifer
M, Spannagl M, Hedley P, Morris J, Russell J, Druka A, Marshall D, Bayer M,
Swarbreck D, Sampath D, Ayling S, Febrer M, Caccamo M, Matsumoto T, Tanaka T,
Sato K, Wise RP, Close TJ, Wannamaker S, Muehlbauer GJ, Stein N, Waugh R,
Steuernagel B, Schmutzer T, Mascher M, Scholz U, Taudien S, Platzer M, Sato K,
Marshall D, Bayer M, Waugh R, Stein N.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2013 Jan;14(1):6.

Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is among the world's earliest domesticated and most
important crop plants. It is diploid with a large haploid genome of 5.1 gigabases
(Gb). Here we present an integrated and ordered physical, genetic and functional 
sequence resource that describes the barley gene-space in a structured
whole-genome context. We developed a physical map of 4.98 Gb, with more than
3.90 Gb anchored to a high-resolution genetic map. Projecting a deep whole-genome
shotgun assembly, complementary DNA and deep RNA sequence data onto this
framework supports 79,379 transcript clusters, including 26,159 'high-confidence'
genes with homology support from other plant genomes. Abundant alternative
splicing, premature termination codons and novel transcriptionally active regions
suggest that post-transcriptional processing forms an important regulatory layer.
Survey sequences from diverse accessions reveal a landscape of extensive
single-nucleotide variation. Our data provide a platform for both genome-assisted
research and enabling contemporary crop improvement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11543 
PMID: 23075845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):717-23. doi: 10.1038/nature11605. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

MR1 presents microbial vitamin B metabolites to MAIT cells.

Kjer-Nielsen L(1), Patel O, Corbett AJ, Le Nours J, Meehan B, Liu L, Bhati M,
Chen Z, Kostenko L, Reantragoon R, Williamson NA, Purcell AW, Dudek NL,
McConville MJ, O'Hair RA, Khairallah GN, Godfrey DI, Fairlie DP, Rossjohn J,
McCluskey J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria 3010, Australia.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2013 Apr;23(4):460-2.
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):680-1.

Antigen-presenting molecules, encoded by the major histocompatibility complex
(MHC) and CD1 family, bind peptide- and lipid-based antigens, respectively, for
recognition by T cells. Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are an
abundant population of innate-like T cells in humans that are activated by an
antigen(s) bound to the MHC class I-like molecule MR1. Although the identity of
MR1-restricted antigen(s) is unknown, it is present in numerous bacteria and
yeast. Here we show that the structure and chemistry within the antigen-binding
cleft of MR1 is distinct from the MHC and CD1 families. MR1 is ideally suited to 
bind ligands originating from vitamin metabolites. The structure of MR1 in
complex with 6-formyl pterin, a folic acid (vitamin B9) metabolite, shows the
pterin ring sequestered within MR1. Furthermore, we characterize related
MR1-restricted vitamin derivatives, originating from the bacterial riboflavin
(vitamin B2) biosynthetic pathway, which specifically and potently activate MAIT 
cells. Accordingly, we show that metabolites of vitamin B represent a class of
antigen that are presented by MR1 for MAIT-cell immunosurveillance. As many
vitamin biosynthetic pathways are unique to bacteria and yeast, our data suggest 
that MAIT cells use these metabolites to detect microbial infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11605 
PMID: 23051753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):765-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11463. Epub 2012 Oct 7.

Self-renewal of embryonic-stem-cell-derived progenitors by organ-matched
mesenchyme.

Sneddon JB(1), Borowiak M, Melton DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard Stem Cell Institute,
Harvard University, 7 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

One goal of regenerative medicine, to use stem cells to replace cells lost by
injury or disease, depends on producing an excess of the relevant cell for study 
or transplantation. To this end, the stepwise differentiation of stem cells into 
specialized derivatives has been successful for some cell types, but a major
problem remains the inefficient conversion of cells from one stage of
differentiation to the next. If specialized cells are to be produced in large
numbers it will be necessary to expand progenitor cells, without differentiation,
at some steps of the process. Using the pancreatic lineage as a model for
embryonic-stem-cell differentiation, we demonstrate that this is a solvable
problem. Co-culture with organ-matched mesenchyme permits proliferation and
self-renewal of progenitors, without differentiation, and enables an expansion of
more than a million-fold for human endodermal cells with full retention of their 
developmental potential. This effect is specific both to the mesenchymal cell and
to the progenitor being amplified. Progenitors that have been serially expanded
on mesenchyme give rise to glucose-sensing, insulin-secreting cells when
transplanted in vivo. Theoretically, the identification of stage-specific renewal
signals can be incorporated into any scheme for the efficient production of large
numbers of differentiated cells from stem cells and may therefore have wide
application in regenerative biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11463 
PMCID: PMC6005657
PMID: 23041930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):724-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11498. Epub 2012 Oct 7.

Visualizing transient low-populated structures of RNA.

Dethoff EA(1), Petzold K, Chugh J, Casiano-Negroni A, Al-Hashimi HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry & Biophysics, University of Michigan, 930 North
University Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1055, USA.

The visualization of RNA conformational changes has provided fundamental insights
into how regulatory RNAs carry out their biological functions. The RNA structural
transitions that have been characterized so far involve long-lived species that
can be captured by structure characterization techniques. Here we report the
nuclear magnetic resonance visualization of RNA transitions towards 'invisible'
excited states (ESs), which exist in too little abundance (2-13%) and for too
short a duration (45-250 μs) to allow structural characterization by conventional
techniques. Transitions towards ESs result in localized rearrangements in
base-pairing that alter building block elements of RNA architecture, including
helix-junction-helix motifs and apical loops. The ES can inhibit function by
sequestering residues involved in recognition and signalling or promote
ATP-independent strand exchange. Thus, RNAs do not adopt a single conformation,
but rather exist in rapid equilibrium with alternative ESs, which can be
stabilized by cellular cues to affect functional outcomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11498 
PMCID: PMC3590852
PMID: 23041928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):582-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11570.

Water structural transformation at molecular hydrophobic interfaces.

Davis JG(1), Gierszal KP, Wang P, Ben-Amotz D.

Author information: 
(1)Purdue University, Department of Chemistry, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):533-5.

Hydrophobic hydration is considered to have a key role in biological processes
ranging from membrane formation to protein folding and ligand binding.
Historically, hydrophobic hydration shells were thought to resemble solid
clathrate hydrates, with solutes surrounded by polyhedral cages composed of
tetrahedrally hydrogen-bonded water molecules. But more recent experimental and
theoretical studies have challenged this view and emphasized the importance of
the length scales involved. Here we report combined polarized, isotopic and
temperature-dependent Raman scattering measurements with multivariate curve
resolution (Raman-MCR) that explore hydrophobic hydration by mapping the
vibrational spectroscopic features arising from the hydrophobic hydration shells 
of linear alcohols ranging from methanol to heptanol. Our data, covering the
entire 0-100 °C temperature range, show clear evidence that at low temperatures
the hydration shells have a hydrophobically enhanced water structure with greater
tetrahedral order and fewer weak hydrogen bonds than the surrounding bulk water. 
This structure disappears with increasing temperature and is then, for
hydrophobic chains longer than ~1 nm, replaced by a more disordered structure
with weaker hydrogen bonds than bulk water. These observations support our
current understanding of hydrophobic hydration, including the thermally induced
water structural transformation that is suggestive of the hydrophobic crossover
predicted to occur at lengths of ~1 nm (refs 5, 9, 10, 14).

DOI: 10.1038/nature11570 
PMID: 23172216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):578-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11619.

Linking synchronization to self-assembly using magnetic Janus colloids.

Yan J(1), Bloom M, Bae SC, Luijten E, Granick S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Synchronization occurs widely in the natural and technological worlds, from the
rhythm of applause and neuron firing to the quantum mechanics of coupled
Josephson junctions, but has not been used to produce new spatial structures. Our
understanding of self-assembly has evolved independently in the fields of
chemistry and materials, and with a few notable exceptions has focused on
equilibrium rather than dynamical systems. Here we combine these two phenomena to
create synchronization-selected microtubes of Janus colloids, micron-sized
spherical particles with different surface chemistry on their opposing
hemispheres, which we study using imaging and computer simulation. A thin nickel 
film coats one hemisphere of each silica particle to generate a discoid magnetic 
symmetry, such that in a precessing magnetic field its dynamics retain crucial
phase freedom. Synchronizing their motion, these Janus spheres self-organize into
micrometre-scale tubes in which the constituent particles rotate and oscillate
continuously. In addition, the microtube must be tidally locked to the particles,
that is, the particles must maintain their orientation within the rotating
microtube. This requirement leads to a synchronization-induced structural
transition that offers various applications based on the potential to form,
disintegrate and fine-tune self-assembled in-motion structures in situ.
Furthermore, it offers a generalizable method of controlling structure using
dynamic synchronization criteria rather than static energy minimization, and of
designing new field-driven microscale devices in which components do not
slavishly follow the external field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11619 
PMID: 23172215 


128. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):566-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11597.

Albedo and atmospheric constraints of dwarf planet Makemake from a stellar
occultation.

Ortiz JL(1), Sicardy B, Braga-Ribas F, Alvarez-Candal A, Lellouch E, Duffard R,
Pinilla-Alonso N, Ivanov VD, Littlefair SP, Camargo JI, Assafin M, Unda-Sanzana
E, Jehin E, Morales N, Tancredi G, Gil-Hutton R, de la Cueva I, Colque JP, Da
Silva Neto DN, Manfroid J, Thirouin A, Gutiérrez PJ, Lecacheux J, Gillon M, Maury
A, Colas F, Licandro J, Mueller T, Jacques C, Weaver D, Milone A, Salvo R,
Bruzzone S, Organero F, Behrend R, Roland S, Vieira-Martins R, Widemann T, Roques
F, Santos-Sanz P, Hestroffer D, Dhillon VS, Marsh TR, Harlingten C, Bagatin AC,
Alonso ML, Ortiz M, Colazo C, Lima HJ, Oliveira AS, Kerber LO, Smiljanic R,
Pimentel E, Giacchini B, Cacella P, Emilio M.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía, CSIC, Apartado 3004, 18080 Granada,
Spain. ortiz@iaa.es

Pluto and Eris are icy dwarf planets with nearly identical sizes, comparable
densities and similar surface compositions as revealed by spectroscopic studies. 
Pluto possesses an atmosphere whereas Eris does not; the difference probably
arises from their differing distances from the Sun, and explains their different 
albedos. Makemake is another icy dwarf planet with a spectrum similar to Eris and
Pluto, and is currently at a distance to the Sun intermediate between the two.
Although Makemake's size (1,420 ± 60 km) and albedo are roughly known, there has 
been no constraint on its density and there were expectations that it could have 
a Pluto-like atmosphere. Here we report the results from a stellar occultation by
Makemake on 2011 April 23. Our preferred solution that fits the occultation
chords corresponds to a body with projected axes of 1,430 ± 9 km (1σ) and 1,502 ±
45 km, implying a V-band geometric albedo p(V) = 0.77 ± 0.03. This albedo is
larger than that of Pluto, but smaller than that of Eris. The disappearances and 
reappearances of the star were abrupt, showing that Makemake has no global
Pluto-like atmosphere at an upper limit of 4-12 nanobar (1σ) for the surface
pressure, although a localized atmosphere is possible. A density of 1.7 ± 0.3 g
cm(-3) is inferred from the data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11597 
PMID: 23172214 


129. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):547-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11618.

Hippocampal-cortical interaction during periods of subcortical silence.

Logothetis NK(1), Eschenko O, Murayama Y, Augath M, Steudel T, Evrard HC,
Besserve M, Oeltermann A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Spemannstraße 38, 72076
Tuebingen, Germany. Nikos.Logothetis@tuebingen.mpg.de

Hippocampal ripples, episodic high-frequency field-potential oscillations
primarily occurring during sleep and calmness, have been described in mice, rats,
rabbits, monkeys and humans, and so far they have been associated with retention 
of previously acquired awake experience. Although hippocampal ripples have been
studied in detail using neurophysiological methods, the global effects of ripples
on the entire brain remain elusive, primarily owing to a lack of methodologies
permitting concurrent hippocampal recordings and whole-brain activity mapping. By
combining electrophysiological recordings in hippocampus with ripple-triggered
functional magnetic resonance imaging, here we show that most of the cerebral
cortex is selectively activated during the ripples, whereas most diencephalic,
midbrain and brainstem regions are strongly and consistently inhibited. Analysis 
of regional temporal response patterns indicates that thalamic activity
suppression precedes the hippocampal population burst, which itself is temporally
bounded by massive activations of association and primary cortical areas. These
findings suggest that during off-line memory consolidation, synergistic
thalamocortical activity may be orchestrating a privileged interaction state
between hippocampus and cortex by silencing the output of subcortical centres
involved in sensory processing or potentially mediating procedural learning. Such
a mechanism would cause minimal interference, enabling consolidation of
hippocampus-dependent memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11618 
PMID: 23172213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):570-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11595. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Sisyphus cooling of electrically trapped polyatomic molecules.

Zeppenfeld M(1), Englert BG, Glöckner R, Prehn A, Mielenz M, Sommer C, van Buuren
LD, Motsch M, Rempe G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Straße 1, 85748
Garching, Germany. martin.zeppenfeld@mpq.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):539-40.

Polar molecules have a rich internal structure and long-range dipole-dipole
interactions, making them useful for quantum-controlled applications and
fundamental investigations. Their potential fully unfolds at ultracold
temperatures, where various effects are predicted in many-body physics, quantum
information science, ultracold chemistry and physics beyond the standard model.
Whereas a wide range of methods to produce cold molecular ensembles have been
developed, the cooling of polyatomic molecules (that is, with three or more
atoms) to ultracold temperatures has seemed intractable. Here we report the
experimental realization of optoelectrical cooling, a recently proposed cooling
and accumulation method for polar molecules. Its key attribute is the removal of 
a large fraction of a molecule's kinetic energy in each cycle of the cooling
sequence via a Sisyphus effect, allowing cooling with only a few repetitions of
the dissipative decay process. We demonstrate the potential of optoelectrical
cooling by reducing the temperature of about one million CH(3)F molecules by a
factor of 13.5, with the phase-space density increased by a factor of 29 (or a
factor of 70 discounting trap losses). In contrast to other cooling mechanisms,
our scheme proceeds in a trap, cools in all three dimensions and should work for 
a large variety of polar molecules. With no fundamental temperature limit
anticipated down to the photon-recoil temperature in the nanokelvin range, we
expect our method to be able to produce ultracold polyatomic molecules. The low
temperatures, large molecule numbers and long trapping times of up to 27 seconds 
should allow an interaction-dominated regime to be attained, enabling collision
studies and investigation of evaporative cooling towards a Bose-Einstein
condensate of polyatomic molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11595 
PMID: 23151480 


131. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):594-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11673. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Aberrant light directly impairs mood and learning through melanopsin-expressing
neurons.

LeGates TA(1), Altimus CM, Wang H, Lee HK, Yang S, Zhao H, Kirkwood A, Weber ET, 
Hattar S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):537-8.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jan;14(1):2-3.

The daily solar cycle allows organisms to synchronize their circadian rhythms and
sleep-wake cycles to the correct temporal niche. Changes in day-length,
shift-work, and transmeridian travel lead to mood alterations and cognitive
function deficits. Sleep deprivation and circadian disruption underlie mood and
cognitive disorders associated with irregular light schedules. Whether irregular 
light schedules directly affect mood and cognitive functions in the context of
normal sleep and circadian rhythms remains unclear. Here we show, using an
aberrant light cycle that neither changes the amount and architecture of sleep
nor causes changes in the circadian timing system, that light directly regulates 
mood-related behaviours and cognitive functions in mice. Animals exposed to the
aberrant light cycle maintain daily corticosterone rhythms, but the overall
levels of corticosterone are increased. Despite normal circadian and sleep
structures, these animals show increased depression-like behaviours and impaired 
hippocampal long-term potentiation and learning. Administration of the
antidepressant drugs fluoxetine or desipramine restores learning in mice exposed 
to the aberrant light cycle, suggesting that the mood deficit precedes the
learning impairments. To determine the retinal circuits underlying this
impairment of mood and learning, we examined the behavioural consequences of this
light cycle in animals that lack intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion
cells. In these animals, the aberrant light cycle does not impair mood and
learning, despite the presence of the conventional retinal ganglion cells and the
ability of these animals to detect light for image formation. These findings
demonstrate the ability of light to influence cognitive and mood functions
directly through intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11673 
PMCID: PMC3549331
PMID: 23151476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):590-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11660. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

An early and enduring advanced technology originating 71,000 years ago in South
Africa.

Brown KS(1), Marean CW, Jacobs Z, Schoville BJ, Oestmo S, Fisher EC, Bernatchez
J, Karkanas P, Matthews T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Archaeology, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch 7701, South
Africa.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):531-2.

There is consensus that the modern human lineage appeared in Africa before
100,000 years ago. But there is debate as to when cultural and cognitive
characteristics typical of modern humans first appeared, and the role that these 
had in the expansion of modern humans out of Africa. Scientists rely on
symbolically specific proxies, such as artistic expression, to document the
origins of complex cognition. Advanced technologies with elaborate chains of
production are also proxies, as these often demand high-fidelity transmission and
thus language. Some argue that advanced technologies in Africa appear and
disappear and thus do not indicate complex cognition exclusive to early modern
humans in Africa. The origins of composite tools and advanced projectile weapons 
figure prominently in modern human evolution research, and the latter have been
argued to have been in the exclusive possession of modern humans. Here we
describe a previously unrecognized advanced stone tool technology from Pinnacle
Point Site 5-6 on the south coast of South Africa, originating approximately
71,000 years ago. This technology is dominated by the production of small
bladelets (microliths) primarily from heat-treated stone. There is agreement that
microlithic technology was used to create composite tool components as part of
advanced projectile weapons. Microliths were common worldwide by the mid-Holocene
epoch, but have a patchy pattern of first appearance that is rarely earlier than 
40,000 years ago, and were thought to appear briefly between 65,000 and 60,000
years ago in South Africa and then disappear. Our research extends this record to
~71,000 years, shows that microlithic technology originated early in South
Africa, evolved over a vast time span (~11,000 years), and was typically coupled 
to complex heat treatment that persisted for nearly 100,000 years. Advanced
technologies in Africa were early and enduring; a small sample of excavated sites
in Africa is the best explanation for any perceived 'flickering' pattern.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11660 
PMID: 23135405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):554-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11581. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Novel Foxo1-dependent transcriptional programs control T(reg) cell function.

Ouyang W(1), Liao W, Luo CT, Yin N, Huse M, Kim MV, Peng M, Chan P, Ma Q, Mo Y,
Meijer D, Zhao K, Rudensky AY, Atwal G, Zhang MQ, Li MO.

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York
10065, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2013 Apr;23(4):452-4.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Dec;12(12):806.

Regulatory T (T(reg)) cells, characterized by expression of the transcription
factor forkhead box P3 (Foxp3), maintain immune homeostasis by suppressing
self-destructive immune responses. Foxp3 operates as a late-acting
differentiation factor controlling T(reg) cell homeostasis and function, whereas 
the early T(reg)-cell-lineage commitment is regulated by the Akt kinase and the
forkhead box O (Foxo) family of transcription factors. However, whether Foxo
proteins act beyond the T(reg)-cell-commitment stage to control T(reg) cell
homeostasis and function remains largely unexplored. Here we show that Foxo1 is a
pivotal regulator of T(reg )cell function. T(reg) cells express high amounts of
Foxo1 and display reduced T-cell-receptor-induced Akt activation, Foxo1
phosphorylation and Foxo1 nuclear exclusion. Mice with T(reg)-cell-specific
deletion of Foxo1 develop a fatal inflammatory disorder similar in severity to
that seen in Foxp3-deficient mice, but without the loss of T(reg) cells.
Genome-wide analysis of Foxo1 binding sites reveals ~300 Foxo1-bound target
genes, including the pro-inflammatory cytokine Ifng, that do not seem to be
directly regulated by Foxp3. These findings show that the evolutionarily ancient 
Akt-Foxo1 signalling module controls a novel genetic program indispensable for
T(reg) cell function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11581 
PMCID: PMC3771531
PMID: 23135404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):608-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11536. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Mitochondrial Atpif1 regulates haem synthesis in developing erythroblasts.

Shah DI(1), Takahashi-Makise N, Cooney JD, Li L, Schultz IJ, Pierce EL, Narla A, 
Seguin A, Hattangadi SM, Medlock AE, Langer NB, Dailey TA, Hurst SN, Faccenda D, 
Wiwczar JM, Heggers SK, Vogin G, Chen W, Chen C, Campagna DR, Brugnara C, Zhou Y,
Ebert BL, Danial NN, Fleming MD, Ward DM, Campanella M, Dailey HA, Kaplan J, Paw 
BH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Apr 18;496(7445):386.

Defects in the availability of haem substrates or the catalytic activity of the
terminal enzyme in haem biosynthesis, ferrochelatase (Fech), impair haem
synthesis and thus cause human congenital anaemias. The interdependent functions 
of regulators of mitochondrial homeostasis and enzymes responsible for haem
synthesis are largely unknown. To investigate this we used zebrafish genetic
screens and cloned mitochondrial ATPase inhibitory factor 1 (atpif1) from a
zebrafish mutant with profound anaemia, pinotage (pnt (tq209)). Here we describe 
a direct mechanism establishing that Atpif1 regulates the catalytic efficiency of
vertebrate Fech to synthesize haem. The loss of Atpif1 impairs haemoglobin
synthesis in zebrafish, mouse and human haematopoietic models as a consequence of
diminished Fech activity and elevated mitochondrial pH. To understand the
relationship between mitochondrial pH, redox potential, [2Fe-2S] clusters and
Fech activity, we used genetic complementation studies of Fech constructs with or
without [2Fe-2S] clusters in pnt, as well as pharmacological agents modulating
mitochondrial pH and redox potential. The presence of [2Fe-2S] cluster renders
vertebrate Fech vulnerable to perturbations in Atpif1-regulated mitochondrial pH 
and redox potential. Therefore, Atpif1 deficiency reduces the efficiency of
vertebrate Fech to synthesize haem, resulting in anaemia. The identification of
mitochondrial Atpif1 as a regulator of haem synthesis advances our understanding 
of the mechanisms regulating mitochondrial haem homeostasis and red blood cell
development. An ATPIF1 deficiency may contribute to important human diseases,
such as congenital sideroblastic anaemias and mitochondriopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11536 
PMCID: PMC3504625
PMID: 23135403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):574-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11653. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Revealing the quantum regime in tunnelling plasmonics.

Savage KJ(1), Hawkeye MM, Esteban R, Borisov AG, Aizpurua J, Baumberg JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Nanophotonics Centre, Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Nanotechnol. 2012 Dec;7(12):775-7.

When two metal nanostructures are placed nanometres apart, their optically driven
free electrons couple electrically across the gap. The resulting plasmons have
enhanced optical fields of a specific colour tightly confined inside the gap.
Many emerging nanophotonic technologies depend on the careful control of this
plasmonic coupling, including optical nanoantennas for high-sensitivity chemical 
and biological sensors, nanoscale control of active devices, and improved
photovoltaic devices. But for subnanometre gaps, coherent quantum tunnelling
becomes possible and the system enters a regime of extreme non-locality in which 
previous classical treatments fail. Electron correlations across the gap that are
driven by quantum tunnelling require a new description of non-local transport,
which is crucial in nanoscale optoelectronics and single-molecule electronics.
Here, by simultaneously measuring both the electrical and optical properties of
two gold nanostructures with controllable subnanometre separation, we reveal the 
quantum regime of tunnelling plasmonics in unprecedented detail. All observed
phenomena are in good agreement with recent quantum-based models of plasmonic
systems, which eliminate the singularities predicted by classical theories. These
findings imply that tunnelling establishes a quantum limit for plasmonic field
confinement of about 10(-8)λ(3) for visible light (of wavelength λ). Our work
thus prompts new theoretical and experimental investigations into quantum-domain 
plasmonic systems, and will affect the future of nanoplasmonic device engineering
and nanoscale photochemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11653 
PMID: 23135399 


136. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):541-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11656. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Zero-valent sulphur is a key intermediate in marine methane oxidation.

Milucka J(1), Ferdelman TG, Polerecky L, Franzke D, Wegener G, Schmid M,
Lieberwirth I, Wagner M, Widdel F, Kuypers MM.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, Celsiusstrasse 1, 28359 Bremen, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):538-9.

Emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, from marine sediments are
controlled by anaerobic oxidation of methane coupled primarily to sulphate
reduction (AOM). Sulphate-coupled AOM is believed to be mediated by a consortium 
of methanotrophic archaea (ANME) and sulphate-reducing Deltaproteobacteria but
the underlying mechanism has not yet been resolved. Here we show that zero-valent
sulphur compounds (S(0)) are formed during AOM through a new pathway for
dissimilatory sulphate reduction performed by the methanotrophic archaea. Hence, 
AOM might not be an obligate syntrophic process but may be carried out by the
ANME alone. Furthermore, we show that the produced S(0)--in the form of
disulphide--is disproportionated by the Deltaproteobacteria associated with the
ANME. Our observations expand the diversity of known microbially mediated sulphur
transformations and have significant implications for our understanding of the
biogeochemical carbon and sulphur cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11656 
PMID: 23135396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):613-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11546. Epub 2012 Oct 28.

Accelerated disassembly of IgE-receptor complexes by a disruptive macromolecular 
inhibitor.

Kim B(1), Eggel A, Tarchevskaya SS, Vogel M, Prinz H, Jardetzky TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

IgE antibodies bind the high-affinity IgE Fc receptor (FcεRI), found primarily on
mast cells and basophils, and trigger inflammatory cascades of the allergic
response. Inhibitors of IgE-FcεRI binding have been identified and an anti-IgE
therapeutic antibody (omalizumab) is used to treat severe allergic asthma.
However, preformed IgE-FcεRI complexes that prime cells before allergen exposure 
dissociate extremely slowly and cannot be disrupted by strictly competitive
inhibitors. IgE-Fc conformational flexibility indicated that inhibition could be 
mediated by allosteric or other non-classical mechanisms. Here we demonstrate
that an engineered protein inhibitor, DARPin E2_79 (refs 9, 10, 11), acts through
a non-classical inhibition mechanism, not only blocking IgE-FcεRI interactions,
but actively stimulating the dissociation of preformed ligand-receptor complexes.
The structure of the E2_79-IgE-Fc(3-4) complex predicts the presence of two
non-equivalent E2_79 sites in the asymmetric IgE-FcεRI complex, with site 1
distant from the receptor and site 2 exhibiting partial steric overlap. Although 
the structure is indicative of an allosteric inhibition mechanism, mutational
studies and quantitative kinetic modelling indicate that E2_79 acts through a
facilitated dissociation mechanism at site 2 alone. These results demonstrate
that high-affinity IgE-FcεRI complexes can be actively dissociated to block the
allergic response and suggest that protein-protein complexes may be more
generally amenable to active disruption by macromolecular inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11546 
PMCID: PMC3504642
PMID: 23103871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):599-602. doi: 10.1038/nature11554. Epub 2012 Oct
28.

Synaptic amplification by dendritic spines enhances input cooperativity.

Harnett MT(1), Makara JK, Spruston N, Kath WL, Magee JC.

Author information: 
(1)HHMI Janelia Farm Research Campus, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.

Dendritic spines are the nearly ubiquitous site of excitatory synaptic input onto
neurons and as such are critically positioned to influence diverse aspects of
neuronal signalling. Decades of theoretical studies have proposed that spines may
function as highly effective and modifiable chemical and electrical compartments 
that regulate synaptic efficacy, integration and plasticity. Experimental studies
have confirmed activity-dependent structural dynamics and biochemical
compartmentalization by spines. However, there is a longstanding debate over the 
influence of spines on the electrical aspects of synaptic transmission and
dendritic operation. Here we measure the amplitude ratio of spine head to parent 
dendrite voltage across a range of dendritic compartments and calculate the
associated spine neck resistance (R(neck)) for spines at apical trunk dendrites
in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. We find that R(neck) is large enough
(~500 MΩ) to amplify substantially the spine head depolarization associated with 
a unitary synaptic input by ~1.5- to ~45-fold, depending on parent dendritic
impedance. A morphologically realistic compartmental model capable of reproducing
the observed spatial profile of the amplitude ratio indicates that spines provide
a consistently high-impedance input structure throughout the dendritic
arborization. Finally, we demonstrate that the amplification produced by spines
encourages electrical interaction among coactive inputs through an
R(neck)-dependent increase in spine head voltage-gated conductance activation. We
conclude that the electrical properties of spines promote nonlinear dendritic
processing and associated forms of plasticity and storage, thus fundamentally
enhancing the computational capabilities of neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11554 
PMCID: PMC3504647
PMID: 23103868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):622-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11542. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

Structure and mechanism of a bacterial sodium-dependent dicarboxylate
transporter.

Mancusso R(1), Gregorio GG, Liu Q, Wang DN.

Author information: 
(1)The Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine at the
Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York University School of
Medicine, 540 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA.

In human cells, cytosolic citrate is a chief precursor for the synthesis of fatty
acids, triacylglycerols, cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein. Cytosolic
citrate further regulates the energy balance of the cell by activating the
fatty-acid-synthesis pathway while downregulating both the glycolysis and
fatty-acid β-oxidation pathways. The rate of fatty-acid synthesis in liver and
adipose cells, the two main tissue types for such synthesis, correlates directly 
with the concentration of citrate in the cytosol, with the cytosolic citrate
concentration partially depending on direct import across the plasma membrane
through the Na(+)-dependent citrate transporter (NaCT). Mutations of the
homologous fly gene (Indy; I'm not dead yet) result in reduced fat storage
through calorie restriction. More recently, Nact (also known as Slc13a5)-knockout
mice have been found to have increased hepatic mitochondrial biogenesis, higher
lipid oxidation and energy expenditure, and reduced lipogenesis, which taken
together protect the mice from obesity and insulin resistance. To understand the 
transport mechanism of NaCT and INDY proteins, here we report the 3.2 Å crystal
structure of a bacterial INDY homologue. One citrate molecule and one sodium ion 
are bound per protein, and their binding sites are defined by conserved amino
acid motifs, forming the structural basis for understanding the specificity of
the transporter. Comparison of the structures of the two symmetrical halves of
the transporter suggests conformational changes that propel substrate
translocation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11542 
PMCID: PMC3617922
PMID: 23086149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):586-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11621. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

Lower satellite-gravimetry estimates of Antarctic sea-level contribution.

King MA(1), Bingham RJ, Moore P, Whitehouse PL, Bentley MJ, Milne GA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Civil Engineering and Geosciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle
upon Tyne NE1 7RU, UK. m.a.king@newcastle.ac.uk

Recent estimates of Antarctica's present-day rate of ice-mass contribution to
changes in sea level range from 31 gigatonnes a year (Gt yr(-1); ref. 1) to 246
Gt yr(-1) (ref. 2), a range that cannot be reconciled within formal errors.
Time-varying rates of mass loss contribute to this, but substantial
technique-specific systematic errors also exist. In particular, estimates of
secular ice-mass change derived from Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment
(GRACE) satellite data are dominated by significant uncertainty in the accuracy
of models of mass change due to glacial isostatic adjustment (GIA). Here we adopt
a new model of GIA, developed from geological constraints, which produces GIA
rates systematically lower than those of previous models, and an improved fit to 
independent uplift data. After applying the model to 99 months (from August 2002 
to December 2010) of GRACE data, we estimate a continent-wide ice-mass change of 
-69 ± 18 Gt yr(-1) (+0.19 ± 0.05 mm yr(-1) sea-level equivalent). This is about a
third to a half of the most recently published GRACE estimates, which cover a
similar time period but are based on older GIA models. Plausible GIA model
uncertainties, and errors relating to removing longitudinal GRACE artefacts
('destriping'), confine our estimate to the range -126 Gt yr(-1) to -29 Gt yr(-1)
(0.08-0.35 mm yr(-1) sea-level equivalent). We resolve 26 independent drainage
basins and find that Antarctic mass loss, and its acceleration, is concentrated
in basins along the Amundsen Sea coast. Outside this region, we find that West
Antarctica is nearly in balance and that East Antarctica is gaining substantial
mass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11621 
PMID: 23086145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):618-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11548. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

BTB-ZF factors recruit the E3 ligase cullin 3 to regulate lymphoid effector
programs.

Mathew R(1), Seiler MP, Scanlon ST, Mao AP, Constantinides MG, Bertozzi-Villa C, 
Singer JD, Bendelac A.

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Immunology, Department of Pathology, The Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

The differentiation of several T- and B-cell effector programs in the immune
system is directed by signature transcription factors that induce rapid
epigenetic remodelling. Here we report that promyelocytic leukaemia zinc finger
(PLZF), the BTB-zinc finger (BTB-ZF) transcription factor directing the
innate-like effector program of natural killer T-cell thymocytes, is prominently 
associated with cullin 3 (CUL3), an E3 ubiquitin ligase previously shown to use
BTB domain-containing proteins as adaptors for substrate binding. PLZF transports
CUL3 to the nucleus, where the two proteins are associated within a
chromatin-modifying complex. Furthermore, PLZF expression results in selective
ubiquitination changes of several components of this complex. CUL3 was also found
associated with the BTB-ZF transcription factor BCL6, which directs the
germinal-centre B cell and follicular T-helper cell programs. Conditional CUL3
deletion in mice demonstrated an essential role for CUL3 in the development of
PLZF- and BCL6-dependent lineages. We conclude that distinct lineage-specific
BTB-ZF transcription factors recruit CUL3 to alter the ubiquitination pattern of 
their associated chromatin-modifying complex. We propose that this new function
is essential to direct the differentiation of several T- and B-cell effector
programs, and may also be involved in the oncogenic role of PLZF and BCL6 in
leukaemias and lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11548 
PMCID: PMC3504649
PMID: 23086144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):560-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11608. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

DAXX envelops a histone H3.3-H4 dimer for H3.3-specific recognition.

Elsässer SJ(1), Huang H, Lewis PW, Chin JW, Allis CD, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromatin Biology and Epigenetics, The Rockefeller University,
New York, New York 10065, USA.

Histone chaperones represent a structurally and functionally diverse family of
histone-binding proteins that prevent promiscuous interactions of histones before
their assembly into chromatin. DAXX is a metazoan histone chaperone specific to
the evolutionarily conserved histone variant H3.3. Here we report the crystal
structures of the DAXX histone-binding domain with a histone H3.3-H4 dimer,
including mutants within DAXX and H3.3, together with in vitro and in vivo
functional studies that elucidate the principles underlying H3.3 recognition
specificity. Occupying 40% of the histone surface-accessible area, DAXX wraps
around the H3.3-H4 dimer, with complex formation accompanied by structural
transitions in the H3.3-H4 histone fold. DAXX uses an extended α-helical
conformation to compete with major inter-histone, DNA and ASF1 interaction sites.
Our structural studies identify recognition elements that read out H3.3-specific 
residues, and functional studies address the contributions of Gly 90 in H3.3 and 
Glu 225 in DAXX to chaperone-mediated H3.3 variant recognition specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11608 
PMCID: PMC4056191
PMID: 23075851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):603-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11557. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

Progressive degeneration of human neural stem cells caused by pathogenic LRRK2.

Liu GH(1), Qu J, Suzuki K, Nivet E, Li M, Montserrat N, Yi F, Xu X, Ruiz S, Zhang
W, Wagner U, Kim A, Ren B, Li Y, Goebl A, Kim J, Soligalla RD, Dubova I, Thompson
J, Yates J 3rd, Esteban CR, Sancho-Martinez I, Izpisua Belmonte JC.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China. ghliu@ibp.ac.cn

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2013 Sep;28(10):1344-5.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Dec;8(12):660.

Nuclear-architecture defects have been shown to correlate with the manifestation 
of a number of human diseases as well as ageing. It is therefore plausible that
diseases whose manifestations correlate with ageing might be connected to the
appearance of nuclear aberrations over time. We decided to evaluate nuclear
organization in the context of ageing-associated disorders by focusing on a
leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) dominant mutation (G2019S; glycine-to-serine
substitution at amino acid 2019), which is associated with familial and sporadic 
Parkinson's disease as well as impairment of adult neurogenesis in mice. Here we 
report on the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from
Parkinson's disease patients and the implications of LRRK2(G2019S) mutation in
human neural-stem-cell (NSC) populations. Mutant NSCs showed increased
susceptibility to proteasomal stress as well as passage-dependent deficiencies in
nuclear-envelope organization, clonal expansion and neuronal differentiation.
Disease phenotypes were rescued by targeted correction of the LRRK2(G2019S)
mutation with its wild-type counterpart in Parkinson's disease iPSCs and were
recapitulated after targeted knock-in of the LRRK2(G2019S) mutation in human
embryonic stem cells. Analysis of human brain tissue showed nuclear-envelope
impairment in clinically diagnosed Parkinson's disease patients. Together, our
results identify the nucleus as a previously unknown cellular organelle in
Parkinson's disease pathology and may help to open new avenues for Parkinson's
disease diagnoses as well as for the potential development of therapeutics
targeting this fundamental cell structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11557 
PMCID: PMC3504651
PMID: 23075850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):439-43. doi: 10.1038/nature11576.

Slowdown of the Walker circulation driven by tropical Indo-Pacific warming.

Tokinaga H(1), Xie SP, Deser C, Kosaka Y, Okumura YM.

Author information: 
(1)International Pacific Research Center, Department of Meteorology, SOEST,
University of Hawaii at Manoa, 1680 East West Road, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.

Global mean sea surface temperature (SST) has risen steadily over the past
century, but the overall pattern contains extensive and often uncertain spatial
variations, with potentially important effects on regional precipitation.
Observations suggest a slowdown of the zonal atmospheric overturning circulation 
above the tropical Pacific Ocean (the Walker circulation) over the twentieth
century. Although this change has been attributed to a muted hydrological cycle
forced by global warming, the effect of SST warming patterns has not been
explored and quantified. Here we perform experiments using an atmospheric model, 
and find that SST warming patterns are the main cause of the weakened Walker
circulation over the past six decades (1950-2009). The SST trend reconstructed
from bucket-sampled SST and night-time marine surface air temperature features a 
reduced zonal gradient in the tropical Indo-Pacific Ocean, a change consistent
with subsurface temperature observations. Model experiments with this trend
pattern robustly simulate the observed changes, including the Walker circulation 
slowdown and the eastward shift of atmospheric convection from the Indonesian
maritime continent to the central tropical Pacific. Our results cannot establish 
whether the observed changes are due to natural variability or anthropogenic
global warming, but they do show that the observed slowdown in the Walker
circulation is presumably driven by oceanic rather than atmospheric processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11576 
PMID: 23151588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):435-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11575.

Little change in global drought over the past 60 years.

Sheffield J(1), Wood EF, Roderick ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA. justin@princeton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):338-9.

Drought is expected to increase in frequency and severity in the future as a
result of climate change, mainly as a consequence of decreases in regional
precipitation but also because of increasing evaporation driven by global
warming. Previous assessments of historic changes in drought over the late
twentieth and early twenty-first centuries indicate that this may already be
happening globally. In particular, calculations of the Palmer Drought Severity
Index (PDSI) show a decrease in moisture globally since the 1970s with a
commensurate increase in the area in drought that is attributed, in part, to
global warming. The simplicity of the PDSI, which is calculated from a simple
water-balance model forced by monthly precipitation and temperature data, makes
it an attractive tool in large-scale drought assessments, but may give biased
results in the context of climate change. Here we show that the previously
reported increase in global drought is overestimated because the PDSI uses a
simplified model of potential evaporation that responds only to changes in
temperature and thus responds incorrectly to global warming in recent decades.
More realistic calculations, based on the underlying physical principles that
take into account changes in available energy, humidity and wind speed, suggest
that there has been little change in drought over the past 60 years. The results 
have implications for how we interpret the impact of global warming on the
hydrological cycle and its extremes, and may help to explain why palaeoclimate
drought reconstructions based on tree-ring data diverge from the PDSI-based
drought record in recent years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11575 
PMID: 23151587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):426-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11573.

Observation of entanglement between a quantum dot spin and a single photon.

Gao WB(1), Fallahi P, Togan E, Miguel-Sanchez J, Imamoglu A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Quantum Electronics, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):343-4.

Entanglement has a central role in fundamental tests of quantum mechanics as well
as in the burgeoning field of quantum information processing. Particularly in the
context of quantum networks and communication, a main challenge is the efficient 
generation of entanglement between stationary (spin) and propagating (photon)
quantum bits. Here we report the observation of quantum entanglement between a
semiconductor quantum dot spin and the colour of a propagating optical photon.
The demonstration of entanglement relies on the use of fast, single-photon
detection, which allows us to project the photon into a superposition of red and 
blue frequency components. Our results extend the previous demonstrations of
single-spin/single-photon entanglement in trapped ions, neutral atoms and
nitrogen-vacancy centres to the domain of artificial atoms in semiconductor
nanostructures that allow for on-chip integration of electronic and photonic
elements. As a result of its fast optical transitions and favourable selection
rules, the scheme we implement could in principle generate nearly deterministic
entangled spin-photon pairs at a rate determined ultimately by the high
spontaneous emission rate. Our observation constitutes a first step towards
implementation of a quantum network with nodes consisting of semiconductor spin
quantum bits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11573 
PMID: 23151586 


147. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):421-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11577.

Quantum-dot spin-photon entanglement via frequency downconversion to telecom
wavelength.

De Greve K(1), Yu L, McMahon PL, Pelc JS, Natarajan CM, Kim NY, Abe E, Maier S,
Schneider C, Kamp M, Höfling S, Hadfield RH, Forchel A, Fejer MM, Yamamoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)E. L. Ginzton Laboratory, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA. kdegreve@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):343-4.

Long-distance quantum teleportation and quantum repeater technologies require
entanglement between a single matter quantum bit (qubit) and a telecommunications
(telecom)-wavelength photonic qubit. Electron spins in III-V semiconductor
quantum dots are among the matter qubits that allow for the fastest spin
manipulation and photon emission, but entanglement between a single quantum-dot
spin qubit and a flying (propagating) photonic qubit has yet to be demonstrated. 
Moreover, many quantum dots emit single photons at visible to near-infrared
wavelengths, where silica fibre losses are so high that long-distance quantum
communication protocols become difficult to implement. Here we demonstrate
entanglement between an InAs quantum-dot electron spin qubit and a photonic
qubit, by frequency downconversion of a spontaneously emitted photon from a
singly charged quantum dot to a wavelength of 1,560 nanometres. The use of
sub-10-picosecond pulses at a wavelength of 2.2 micrometres in the frequency
downconversion process provides the necessary quantum erasure to eliminate
which-path information in the photon energy. Together with previously
demonstrated indistinguishable single-photon emission at high repetition rates,
the present technique advances the III-V semiconductor quantum-dot spin system as
a promising platform for long-distance quantum communication.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11577 
PMID: 23151585 


148. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):418-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11560.

A primordial origin for misalignments between stellar spin axes and planetary
orbits.

Batygin K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA. kbatygin@gps.caltech.edu

The existence of gaseous giant planets whose orbits lie close to their host stars
('hot Jupiters') can largely be accounted for by planetary migration associated
with viscous evolution of proto-planetary nebulae. Recently, observations of the 
Rossiter-McLaughlin effect during planetary transits have revealed that a
considerable fraction of hot Jupiters are on orbits that are misaligned with
respect to the spin axes of their host stars. This observation has cast doubt on 
the importance of disk-driven migration as a mechanism for producing hot
Jupiters. Here I show that misaligned orbits can be a natural consequence of disk
migration in binary systems whose orbital plane is uncorrelated with the spin
axes of the individual stars. The gravitational torques arising from the
dynamical evolution of idealized proto-planetary disks under perturbations from
massive distant bodies act to misalign the orbital planes of the disks relative
to the spin poles of their host stars. As a result, I suggest that in the absence
of strong coupling between the angular momentum of the disk and that of the host 
star, or of sufficient dissipation that acts to realign the stellar spin axis and
the planetary orbits, the fraction of planetary systems (including systems of
'hot Neptunes' and 'super-Earths') whose angular momentum vectors are misaligned 
with respect to their host stars will be commensurate with the rate of primordial
stellar multiplicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11560 
PMID: 23151584 


149. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):406-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11544. Epub 2012 Sep 18.

Broad and potent neutralization of HIV-1 by a gp41-specific human antibody.

Huang J(1), Ofek G, Laub L, Louder MK, Doria-Rose NA, Longo NS, Imamichi H,
Bailer RT, Chakrabarti B, Sharma SK, Alam SM, Wang T, Yang Y, Zhang B, Migueles
SA, Wyatt R, Haynes BF, Kwong PD, Mascola JR, Connors M.

Author information: 
(1)HIV-Specific Immunity Section, Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Characterization of human monoclonal antibodies is providing considerable insight
into mechanisms of broad HIV-1 neutralization. Here we report an HIV-1 gp41
membrane-proximal external region (MPER)-specific antibody, named 10E8, which
neutralizes ∼98% of tested viruses. An analysis of sera from 78 healthy
HIV-1-infected donors demonstrated that 27% contained MPER-specific antibodies
and 8% contained 10E8-like specificities. In contrast to other neutralizing MPER 
antibodies, 10E8 did not bind phospholipids, was not autoreactive, and bound
cell-surface envelope. The structure of 10E8 in complex with the complete MPER
revealed a site of vulnerability comprising a narrow stretch of highly conserved 
gp41-hydrophobic residues and a critical arginine or lysine just before the
transmembrane region. Analysis of resistant HIV-1 variants confirmed the
importance of these residues for neutralization. The highly conserved MPER is a
target of potent, non-self-reactive neutralizing antibodies, suggesting that
HIV-1 vaccines should aim to induce antibodies to this region of HIV-1 envelope
glycoprotein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11544 
PMCID: PMC4854285
PMID: 23151583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):393-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11622.

Analyses of pig genomes provide insight into porcine demography and evolution.

Groenen MA(1), Archibald AL, Uenishi H, Tuggle CK, Takeuchi Y, Rothschild MF,
Rogel-Gaillard C, Park C, Milan D, Megens HJ, Li S, Larkin DM, Kim H, Frantz LA, 
Caccamo M, Ahn H, Aken BL, Anselmo A, Anthon C, Auvil L, Badaoui B, Beattie CW,
Bendixen C, Berman D, Blecha F, Blomberg J, Bolund L, Bosse M, Botti S, Bujie Z, 
Bystrom M, Capitanu B, Carvalho-Silva D, Chardon P, Chen C, Cheng R, Choi SH,
Chow W, Clark RC, Clee C, Crooijmans RP, Dawson HD, Dehais P, De Sapio F, Dibbits
B, Drou N, Du ZQ, Eversole K, Fadista J, Fairley S, Faraut T, Faulkner GJ, Fowler
KE, Fredholm M, Fritz E, Gilbert JG, Giuffra E, Gorodkin J, Griffin DK, Harrow
JL, Hayward A, Howe K, Hu ZL, Humphray SJ, Hunt T, Hornshøj H, Jeon JT, Jern P,
Jones M, Jurka J, Kanamori H, Kapetanovic R, Kim J, Kim JH, Kim KW, Kim TH,
Larson G, Lee K, Lee KT, Leggett R, Lewin HA, Li Y, Liu W, Loveland JE, Lu Y,
Lunney JK, Ma J, Madsen O, Mann K, Matthews L, McLaren S, Morozumi T, Murtaugh
MP, Narayan J, Nguyen DT, Ni P, Oh SJ, Onteru S, Panitz F, Park EW, Park HS,
Pascal G, Paudel Y, Perez-Enciso M, Ramirez-Gonzalez R, Reecy JM, Rodriguez-Zas
S, Rohrer GA, Rund L, Sang Y, Schachtschneider K, Schraiber JG, Schwartz J,
Scobie L, Scott C, Searle S, Servin B, Southey BR, Sperber G, Stadler P, Sweedler
JV, Tafer H, Thomsen B, Wali R, Wang J, Wang J, White S, Xu X, Yerle M, Zhang G, 
Zhang J, Zhang J, Zhao S, Rogers J, Churcher C, Schook LB.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre, Wageningen University, De Elst 1, 6708
WD, Wageningen, The Netherlands. martien.groenen@wur.nl

For 10,000 years pigs and humans have shared a close and complex relationship.
From domestication to modern breeding practices, humans have shaped the genomes
of domestic pigs. Here we present the assembly and analysis of the genome
sequence of a female domestic Duroc pig (Sus scrofa) and a comparison with the
genomes of wild and domestic pigs from Europe and Asia. Wild pigs emerged in
South East Asia and subsequently spread across Eurasia. Our results reveal a deep
phylogenetic split between European and Asian wild boars ∼1 million years ago,
and a selective sweep analysis indicates selection on genes involved in RNA
processing and regulation. Genes associated with immune response and olfaction
exhibit fast evolution. Pigs have the largest repertoire of functional olfactory 
receptor genes, reflecting the importance of smell in this scavenging animal. The
pig genome sequence provides an important resource for further improvements of
this important livestock species, and our identification of many putative
disease-causing variants extends the potential of the pig as a biomedical model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11622 
PMCID: PMC3566564
PMID: 23151582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):384-92. doi: 10.1038/nature11708.

Metabolic phenotyping in clinical and surgical environments.

Nicholson JK(1), Holmes E, Kinross JM, Darzi AW, Takats Z, Lindon JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College
London, South Kensington, London SW7 2AZ, UK. j.nicholson@imperial.ac.uk

Metabolic phenotyping involves the comprehensive analysis of biological fluids or
tissue samples. This analysis allows biochemical classification of a person's
physiological or pathological states that relate to disease diagnosis or
prognosis at the individual level and to disease risk factors at the population
level. These approaches are currently being implemented in hospital environments 
and in regional phenotyping centres worldwide. The ultimate aim of such work is
to generate information on patient biology using techniques such as patient
stratification to better inform clinicians on factors that will enhance diagnosis
or the choice of therapy. There have been many reports of direct applications of 
metabolic phenotyping in a clinical setting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11708 
PMID: 23151581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):374-83. doi: 10.1038/nature11707.

Mitochondrial disorders as windows into an ancient organelle.

Vafai SB(1), Mootha VK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Center for Human Genetic Research,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Much of our current knowledge about mitochondria has come from studying patients 
who have respiratory chain disorders. These disorders comprise a large collection
of individually rare syndromes, each presenting in a unique and often devastating
way. In recent years, there has been great progress in defining their genetic
basis, but we still know little about the cascade of events that gives rise to
such diverse pathology. Here, we review these disorders and explore them in the
context of a contemporary understanding of mitochondrial evolution, biochemistry 
and genetics. Fully deciphering their pathogenesis is a challenging next step
that will inspire the development of drug treatments for rare and common
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11707 
PMID: 23151580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):364-73. doi: 10.1038/nature11706.

How cancer metabolism is tuned for proliferation and vulnerable to disruption.

Schulze A(1), Harris AL.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Analysis Laboratory, Cancer Research UK, London Research
Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
almut.schulze@cancer.org.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 7;494(7435):130.

Cancer metabolism has received a substantial amount of interest over the past
decade. The advances in analytical tools have, along with the rapid progress of
cancer genomics, generated an increasingly complex understanding of metabolic
reprogramming in cancer. As numerous connections between oncogenic signalling
pathways and metabolic activities emerge, the importance of metabolic
reprogramming in cancer is being increasingly recognized. The identification of
metabolic weaknesses of cancer cells has been used to create strategies for
treating cancer, but there are still challenges to be faced in bringing the drugs
that target cancer metabolism to the clinic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11706 
PMID: 23151579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):357-63. doi: 10.1038/nature11705.

Central nervous system control of metabolism.

Myers MG Jr(1), Olson DP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA.
mgmyers@umich.edu

Although it is a widely held thought that direct hormone action on peripheral
tissues is sufficient to mediate the control of nutrient handling, the role of
the central nervous system in certain aspects of metabolism has long been
recognized. Furthermore, recent findings have suggested a more general role for
the central nervous system in metabolic control, and have revealed the importance
of a number of cues and hypothalamic circuits. The brain's contributions to
metabolic control are more readily revealed and play a crucial part in catabolic 
states or in hormone deficiencies that mimic starvation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11705 
PMID: 23151578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):348-56. doi: 10.1038/nature11704.

Circadian topology of metabolism.

Bass J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA. j-bass@northwestern.edu

Biological clocks are genetically encoded oscillators that allow organisms to
anticipate changes in the light-dark environment that are tied to the rotation of
Earth. Clocks enhance fitness and growth in prokaryotes, and they are expressed
throughout the central nervous system and peripheral tissues of multicelled
organisms in which they influence sleep, arousal, feeding and metabolism.
Biological clocks capture the imagination because of their tie to geophysical
time, and tools are now in hand to analyse their function in health and disease
at the cellular and molecular level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11704 
PMID: 23151577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):431-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11591. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

Spontaneous motion in hierarchically assembled active matter.

Sanchez T(1), Chen DT, DeCamp SJ, Heymann M, Dogic Z.

Author information: 
(1)Martin Fisher School of Physics, Brandeis University, 415 South Street,
Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):340-1.

With remarkable precision and reproducibility, cells orchestrate the cooperative 
action of thousands of nanometre-sized molecular motors to carry out mechanical
tasks at much larger length scales, such as cell motility, division and
replication. Besides their biological importance, such inherently non-equilibrium
processes suggest approaches for developing biomimetic active materials from
microscopic components that consume energy to generate continuous motion. Being
actively driven, these materials are not constrained by the laws of equilibrium
statistical mechanics and can thus exhibit sought-after properties such as
autonomous motility, internally generated flows and self-organized beating. Here,
starting from extensile microtubule bundles, we hierarchically assemble
far-from-equilibrium analogues of conventional polymer gels, liquid crystals and 
emulsions. At high enough concentration, the microtubules form a percolating
active network characterized by internally driven chaotic flows, hydrodynamic
instabilities, enhanced transport and fluid mixing. When confined to emulsion
droplets, three-dimensional networks spontaneously adsorb onto the droplet
surfaces to produce highly active two-dimensional nematic liquid crystals whose
streaming flows are controlled by internally generated fractures and
self-healing, as well as unbinding and annihilation of oppositely charged
disclination defects. The resulting active emulsions exhibit unexpected
properties, such as autonomous motility, which are not observed in their passive 
analogues. Taken together, these observations exemplify how assemblages of
animate microscopic objects exhibit collective biomimetic properties that are
very different from those found in materials assembled from inanimate building
blocks, challenging us to develop a theoretical framework that would allow for a 
systematic engineering of their far-from-equilibrium material properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11591 
PMCID: PMC3499644
PMID: 23135402 


157. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):413-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11602. Epub 2012 Nov 7.

The μ transpososome structure sheds light on DDE recombinase evolution.

Montaño SP(1), Pigli YZ, Rice PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Studies of bacteriophage Mu transposition paved the way for understanding
retroviral integration and V(D)J recombination as well as many other DNA
transposition reactions. Here we report the structure of the Mu transpososome--Mu
transposase (MuA) in complex with bacteriophage DNA ends and target
DNA--determined from data that extend anisotropically to 5.2 Å, 5.2 Å and 3.7 Å
resolution, in conjunction with previously determined structures of individual
domains. The highly intertwined structure illustrates why chemical activity
depends on formation of the synaptic complex, and reveals that individual domains
have different roles when bound to different sites. The structure also provides
explanations for the increased stability of the final product complex and for its
preferential recognition by the ATP-dependent unfoldase ClpX. Although MuA and
many other recombinases share a structurally conserved 'DDE' catalytic domain,
comparisons among the limited set of available complex structures indicate that
some conserved features, such as catalysis in trans and target DNA bending, arose
through convergent evolution because they are important for function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11602 
PMCID: PMC3536463
PMID: 23135398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):473-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11626. Epub 2012 Oct 31.

Endothelial cell expression of haemoglobin α regulates nitric oxide signalling.

Straub AC(1), Lohman AW, Billaud M, Johnstone SR, Dwyer ST, Lee MY, Bortz PS,
Best AK, Columbus L, Gaston B, Isakson BE.

Author information: 
(1)Robert M. Berne Cardiovascular Research Center, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):344-5.

Models of unregulated nitric oxide (NO) diffusion do not consistently account for
the biochemistry of NO synthase (NOS)-dependent signalling in many cell systems. 
For example, endothelial NOS controls blood pressure, blood flow and oxygen
delivery through its effect on vascular smooth muscle tone, but the regulation of
these processes is not adequately explained by simple NO diffusion from
endothelium to smooth muscle. Here we report a new model for the regulation of NO
signalling by demonstrating that haemoglobin (Hb) α (encoded by the HBA1 and HBA2
genes in humans) is expressed in human and mouse arterial endothelial cells and
enriched at the myoendothelial junction, where it regulates the effects of NO on 
vascular reactivity. Notably, this function is unique to Hb α and is abrogated by
its genetic depletion. Mechanistically, endothelial Hb α haem iron in the Fe(3+) 
state permits NO signalling, and this signalling is shut off when Hb α is reduced
to the Fe(2+) state by endothelial cytochrome b5 reductase 3 (CYB5R3, also known 
as diaphorase 1). Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of CYB5R3 increases NO
bioactivity in small arteries. These data reveal a new mechanism by which the
regulation of the intracellular Hb α oxidation state controls NOS signalling in
non-erythroid cells. This model may be relevant to haem-containing globins in a
broad range of NOS-containing somatic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11626 
PMCID: PMC3531883
PMID: 23123858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):444-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11631. Epub 2012 Oct 31.

The global diversity of birds in space and time.

Jetz W(1), Thomas GH, Joy JB, Hartmann K, Mooers AO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University, 165 Prospect 
Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8106, USA. walter.jetz@yale.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):336-7.

Current global patterns of biodiversity result from processes that operate over
both space and time and thus require an integrated macroecological and
macroevolutionary perspective. Molecular time trees have advanced our
understanding of the tempo and mode of diversification and have identified
remarkable adaptive radiations across the tree of life. However, incomplete joint
phylogenetic and geographic sampling has limited broad-scale inference. Thus, the
relative prevalence of rapid radiations and the importance of their geographic
settings in shaping global biodiversity patterns remain unclear. Here we present,
analyse and map the first complete dated phylogeny of all 9,993 extant species of
birds, a widely studied group showing many unique adaptations. We find that birds
have undergone a strong increase in diversification rate from about 50 million
years ago to the near present. This acceleration is due to a number of
significant rate increases, both within songbirds and within other young and
mostly temperate radiations including the waterfowl, gulls and woodpeckers.
Importantly, species characterized with very high past diversification rates are 
interspersed throughout the avian tree and across geographic space.
Geographically, the major differences in diversification rates are hemispheric
rather than latitudinal, with bird assemblages in Asia, North America and
southern South America containing a disproportionate number of species from
recent rapid radiations. The contribution of rapidly radiating lineages to both
temporal diversification dynamics and spatial distributions of species diversity 
illustrates the benefits of an inclusive geographical and taxonomical
perspective. Overall, whereas constituent clades may exhibit slowdowns, the
adaptive zone into which modern birds have diversified since the Cretaceous may
still offer opportunities for diversification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11631 
PMID: 23123857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):449-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11624. Epub 2012 Oct 31.

An ultraviolet-radiation-independent pathway to melanoma carcinogenesis in the
red hair/fair skin background.

Mitra D(1), Luo X, Morgan A, Wang J, Hoang MP, Lo J, Guerrero CR, Lennerz JK,
Mihm MC, Wargo JA, Robinson KC, Devi SP, Vanover JC, D'Orazio JA, McMahon M,
Bosenberg MW, Haigis KM, Haber DA, Wang Y, Fisher DE.

Author information: 
(1)Cutaneous Biology Research Center, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):342-3.

People with pale skin, red hair, freckles and an inability to tan--the 'red
hair/fair skin' phenotype--are at highest risk of developing melanoma, compared
to all other pigmentation types. Genetically, this phenotype is frequently the
product of inactivating polymorphisms in the melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) gene.
MC1R encodes a cyclic AMP-stimulating G-protein-coupled receptor that controls
pigment production. Minimal receptor activity, as in red hair/fair skin
polymorphisms, produces the red/yellow pheomelanin pigment, whereas increasing
MC1R activity stimulates the production of black/brown eumelanin. Pheomelanin has
weak shielding capacity against ultraviolet radiation relative to eumelanin, and 
has been shown to amplify ultraviolet-A-induced reactive oxygen species. Several 
observations, however, complicate the assumption that melanoma risk is completely
ultraviolet-radiation-dependent. For example, unlike non-melanoma skin cancers,
melanoma is not restricted to sun-exposed skin and ultraviolet radiation
signature mutations are infrequently oncogenic drivers. Although linkage of
melanoma risk to ultraviolet radiation exposure is beyond doubt,
ultraviolet-radiation-independent events are likely to have a significant role.
Here we introduce a conditional, melanocyte-targeted allele of the most common
melanoma oncoprotein, BRAF(V600E), into mice carrying an inactivating mutation in
the Mc1r gene (these mice have a phenotype analogous to red hair/fair skin
humans). We observed a high incidence of invasive melanomas without providing
additional gene aberrations or ultraviolet radiation exposure. To investigate the
mechanism of ultraviolet-radiation-independent carcinogenesis, we introduced an
albino allele, which ablates all pigment production on the Mc1r(e/e) background. 
Selective absence of pheomelanin synthesis was protective against melanoma
development. In addition, normal Mc1r(e/e) mouse skin was found to have
significantly greater oxidative DNA and lipid damage than albino-Mc1r(e/e) mouse 
skin. These data suggest that the pheomelanin pigment pathway produces
ultraviolet-radiation-independent carcinogenic contributions to melanomagenesis
by a mechanism of oxidative damage. Although protection from ultraviolet
radiation remains important, additional strategies may be required for optimal
melanoma prevention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11624 
PMCID: PMC3521494
PMID: 23123854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):399-405. doi: 10.1038/nature11547. Epub 2012 Oct
24.

Pancreatic cancer genomes reveal aberrations in axon guidance pathway genes.

Biankin AV(1), Waddell N, Kassahn KS, Gingras MC, Muthuswamy LB, Johns AL, Miller
DK, Wilson PJ, Patch AM, Wu J, Chang DK, Cowley MJ, Gardiner BB, Song S,
Harliwong I, Idrisoglu S, Nourse C, Nourbakhsh E, Manning S, Wani S, Gongora M,
Pajic M, Scarlett CJ, Gill AJ, Pinho AV, Rooman I, Anderson M, Holmes O, Leonard 
C, Taylor D, Wood S, Xu Q, Nones K, Fink JL, Christ A, Bruxner T, Cloonan N,
Kolle G, Newell F, Pinese M, Mead RS, Humphris JL, Kaplan W, Jones MD, Colvin EK,
Nagrial AM, Humphrey ES, Chou A, Chin VT, Chantrill LA, Mawson A, Samra JS, Kench
JG, Lovell JA, Daly RJ, Merrett ND, Toon C, Epari K, Nguyen NQ, Barbour A, Zeps
N; Australian Pancreatic Cancer Genome Initiative, Kakkar N, Zhao F, Wu YQ, Wang 
M, Muzny DM, Fisher WE, Brunicardi FC, Hodges SE, Reid JG, Drummond J, Chang K,
Han Y, Lewis LR, Dinh H, Buhay CJ, Beck T, Timms L, Sam M, Begley K, Brown A, Pai
D, Panchal A, Buchner N, De Borja R, Denroche RE, Yung CK, Serra S, Onetto N,
Mukhopadhyay D, Tsao MS, Shaw PA, Petersen GM, Gallinger S, Hruban RH, Maitra A, 
Iacobuzio-Donahue CA, Schulick RD, Wolfgang CL, Morgan RA, Lawlor RT, Capelli P, 
Corbo V, Scardoni M, Tortora G, Tempero MA, Mann KM, Jenkins NA, Perez-Mancera
PA, Adams DJ, Largaespada DA, Wessels LF, Rust AG, Stein LD, Tuveson DA, Copeland
NG, Musgrove EA, Scarpa A, Eshleman JR, Hudson TJ, Sutherland RL, Wheeler DA,
Pearson JV, McPherson JD, Gibbs RA, Grimmond SM.

Collaborators: Biankin AV, Johns AL, Mawson A, Chang DK, Scarlett CJ, Brancato
MA, Rowe SJ, Simpson SL, Martyn-Smith M, Thomas MT, Chantrill LA, Chin VT, Chou
A, Cowley MJ, Humphris JL, Jones MD, Mead R, Nagrial AM, Pajic M, Pettit J,
Pinese M, Rooman I, Wu J, Tao J, DiPietro R, Watson C, Wong R, Pinho AV,
Giry-Laterriere M, Daly RJ, Musgrove EA, Sutherland RL, Grimmond SM, Waddell N,
Kassahn KS, Miller DK, Wilson PJ, Patch AM, Song S, Harliwong I, Idrisoglu S,
Nourse C, Nourbakhsh E, Manning S, Wani S, Gongora M, Anderson M, Holmes O,
Leonard C, Taylor D, Wood S, Xu Q, Nones K, Fink J, Christ A, Bruxner T, Cloonan 
N, Newell F, Pearson JV, Samra JS, Gill AJ, Pavlakis N, Guminski A, Toon C,
Biankin AV, Asghari R, Merrett ND, Chang DK, Pavey DA, Das A, Cosman PH, Ismail
K, O'Connor C, Lam VW, McLeod D, Pleass HC, Richardson A, James V, Kench JG,
Cooper CL, Joseph D, Sandroussi C, Crawford M, Gallagher J, Texler M, Forrest C, 
Laycock A, Epari KP, Ballal M, Fletcher DR, Mukhedkar S, Spry NA, DeBoer B, Chai 
M, Zeps N, Beilin M, Feeney K, Nguyen NQ, Ruszkiewicz AR, Worthley C, Tan CP,
Debrencini T, Chen J, Brooke-Smith ME, Papangelis V, Tang H, Barbour AP, Clouston
AD, Martin P, O'Rourke TJ, Chiang A, Fawcett JW, Slater K, Yeung S, Hatzifotis M,
Hodgkinson P, Christophi C, Nikfarjam M, Mountain A, Eshleman JR, Hruban RH,
Maitra A, Iacobuzio-Donahue CA, Schulick RD, Wolfgang CL, Morgan RA, Hodgin MB,
Scarpa A, Lawlor RT, Capelli P, Beghelli S, Corbo V, Scardoni M, Pederzoli P,
Tortora G, Bassi C, Tempero MA.

Author information: 
(1)The Kinghorn Cancer Centre, 370 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, New
South Wales 2010, Australia.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Dec;9(12):688.

Pancreatic cancer is a highly lethal malignancy with few effective therapies. We 
performed exome sequencing and copy number analysis to define genomic aberrations
in a prospectively accrued clinical cohort (n = 142) of early (stage I and II)
sporadic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Detailed analysis of 99 informative
tumours identified substantial heterogeneity with 2,016 non-silent mutations and 
1,628 copy-number variations. We define 16 significantly mutated genes,
reaffirming known mutations (KRAS, TP53, CDKN2A, SMAD4, MLL3, TGFBR2, ARID1A and 
SF3B1), and uncover novel mutated genes including additional genes involved in
chromatin modification (EPC1 and ARID2), DNA damage repair (ATM) and other
mechanisms (ZIM2, MAP2K4, NALCN, SLC16A4 and MAGEA6). Integrative analysis with
in vitro functional data and animal models provided supportive evidence for
potential roles for these genetic aberrations in carcinogenesis. Pathway-based
analysis of recurrently mutated genes recapitulated clustering in core signalling
pathways in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, and identified new mutated genes in
each pathway. We also identified frequent and diverse somatic aberrations in
genes described traditionally as embryonic regulators of axon guidance,
particularly SLIT/ROBO signalling, which was also evident in murine Sleeping
Beauty transposon-mediated somatic mutagenesis models of pancreatic cancer,
providing further supportive evidence for the potential involvement of axon
guidance genes in pancreatic carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11547 
PMCID: PMC3530898
PMID: 23103869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):468-72. doi: 10.1038/nature11539. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

A bimodular mechanism of calcium control in eukaryotes.

Tidow H(1), Poulsen LR, Andreeva A, Knudsen M, Hein KL, Wiuf C, Palmgren MG,
Nissen P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease - PUMPKIN, Aarhus University,
Gustav Wieds Vej 10c, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Calcium ions (Ca(2+)) have an important role as secondary messengers in numerous 
signal transduction processes, and cells invest much energy in controlling and
maintaining a steep gradient between intracellular (∼0.1-micromolar) and
extracellular (∼2-millimolar) Ca(2+) concentrations. Calmodulin-stimulated
calcium pumps, which include the plasma-membrane Ca(2+)-ATPases (PMCAs), are key 
regulators of intracellular Ca(2+) in eukaryotes. They contain a unique amino- or
carboxy-terminal regulatory domain responsible for autoinhibition, and binding of
calcium-loaded calmodulin to this domain releases autoinhibition and activates
the pump. However, the structural basis for the activation mechanism is unknown
and a key remaining question is how calmodulin-mediated PMCA regulation can cover
both basal Ca(2+) levels in the nanomolar range as well as micromolar-range
Ca(2+) transients generated by cell stimulation. Here we present an integrated
study combining the determination of the high-resolution crystal structure of a
PMCA regulatory-domain/calmodulin complex with in vivo characterization and
biochemical, biophysical and bioinformatics data that provide mechanistic
insights into a two-step PMCA activation mechanism mediated by calcium-loaded
calmodulin. The structure shows the entire PMCA regulatory domain and reveals an 
unexpected 2:1 stoichiometry with two calcium-loaded calmodulin molecules binding
to different sites on a long helix. A multifaceted characterization of the role
of both sites leads to a general structural model for calmodulin-mediated
regulation of PMCAs that allows stringent, highly responsive control of
intracellular calcium in eukaryotes, making it possible to maintain a stable,
basal level at a threshold Ca(2+) concentration, where steep activation occurs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11539 
PMID: 23086147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):478-82. doi: 10.1038/nature11541. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

Structural insight into the type-II mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenases.

Feng Y(1), Li W, Li J, Wang J, Ge J, Xu D, Liu Y, Wu K, Zeng Q, Wu JW, Tian C,
Zhou B, Yang M.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane Biotechnology,
Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China.

The single-component type-II NADH dehydrogenases (NDH-2s) serve as alternatives
to the multisubunit respiratory complex I (type-I NADH dehydrogenase (NDH-1),
also called NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase; EC 1.6.5.3) in catalysing electron
transfer from NADH to ubiquinone in the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The
yeast NDH-2 (Ndi1) oxidizes NADH on the matrix side and reduces ubiquinone to
maintain mitochondrial NADH/NAD(+) homeostasis. Ndi1 is a potential therapeutic
agent for human diseases caused by complex I defects, particularly Parkinson's
disease, because its expression restores the mitochondrial activity in animals
with complex I deficiency. NDH-2s in pathogenic microorganisms are viable targets
for new antibiotics. Here we solve the crystal structures of Ndi1 in its
substrate-free, NADH-, ubiquinone- and NADH-ubiquinone-bound states, to help
understand the catalytic mechanism of NDH-2s. We find that Ndi1 homodimerization 
through its carboxy-terminal domain is critical for its catalytic activity and
membrane targeting. The structures reveal two ubiquinone-binding sites (UQ(I) and
UQ(II)) in Ndi1. NADH and UQ(I) can bind to Ndi1 simultaneously to form a
substrate-protein complex. We propose that UQ(I) interacts with FAD to act as an 
intermediate for electron transfer, and that NADH transfers electrons through
this FAD-UQ(I) complex to UQ(II). Together our data reveal the regulatory and
catalytic mechanisms of Ndi1 and may facilitate the development or targeting of
NDH-2s for potential therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11541 
PMID: 23086143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):463-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11522. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

A vaccine strategy that protects against genital herpes by establishing local
memory T cells.

Shin H(1), Iwasaki A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, 300 Cedar
Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Most successful existing vaccines rely on neutralizing antibodies, which may not 
require specific anatomical localization of B cells. However, efficacious
vaccines that rely on T cells for protection have been difficult to develop, as
robust systemic memory T-cell responses do not necessarily correlate with host
protection. In peripheral sites, tissue-resident memory T cells provide superior 
protection compared to circulating memory T cells. Here we describe a simple and 
non-inflammatory vaccine strategy that enables the establishment of a protective 
memory T-cell pool within peripheral tissue. The female genital tract, which is a
portal of entry for sexually transmitted infections, is an immunologically
restrictive tissue that prevents entry of activated T cells in the absence of
inflammation or infection. To overcome this obstacle, we developed a vaccine
strategy that we term 'prime and pull' to establish local tissue-resident memory 
T cells at a site of potential viral exposure. This approach relies on two steps:
conventional parenteral vaccination to elicit systemic T-cell responses (prime), 
followed by recruitment of activated T cells by means of topical chemokine
application to the restrictive genital tract (pull), where such T cells establish
a long-term niche and mediate protective immunity. In mice, prime and pull
protocol reduces the spread of infectious herpes simplex virus 2 into the sensory
neurons and prevents development of clinical disease. These results reveal a
promising vaccination strategy against herpes simplex virus 2, and potentially
against other sexually transmitted infections such as human immunodeficiency
virus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11522 
PMCID: PMC3499630
PMID: 23075848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):454-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11508. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

Long non-coding antisense RNA controls Uchl1 translation through an embedded
SINEB2 repeat.

Carrieri C(1), Cimatti L, Biagioli M, Beugnet A, Zucchelli S, Fedele S, Pesce E, 
Ferrer I, Collavin L, Santoro C, Forrest AR, Carninci P, Biffo S, Stupka E,
Gustincich S.

Author information: 
(1)Area of Neuroscience, International School for Advanced Studies (SISSA), via
Bonomea 265, 34136 Trieste, Italy.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2013 Apr;23(4):449-51.

Most of the mammalian genome is transcribed. This generates a vast repertoire of 
transcripts that includes protein-coding messenger RNAs, long non-coding RNAs
(lncRNAs) and repetitive sequences, such as SINEs (short interspersed nuclear
elements). A large percentage of ncRNAs are nuclear-enriched with unknown
function. Antisense lncRNAs may form sense-antisense pairs by pairing with a
protein-coding gene on the opposite strand to regulate epigenetic silencing,
transcription and mRNA stability. Here we identify a nuclear-enriched lncRNA
antisense to mouse ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (Uchl1), a gene
involved in brain function and neurodegenerative diseases. Antisense Uchl1
increases UCHL1 protein synthesis at a post-transcriptional level, hereby
identifying a new functional class of lncRNAs. Antisense Uchl1 activity depends
on the presence of a 5' overlapping sequence and an embedded inverted SINEB2
element. These features are shared by other natural antisense transcripts and can
confer regulatory activity to an artificial antisense to green fluorescent
protein. Antisense Uchl1 function is under the control of stress signalling
pathways, as mTORC1 inhibition by rapamycin causes an increase in UCHL1 protein
that is associated to the shuttling of antisense Uchl1 RNA from the nucleus to
the cytoplasm. Antisense Uchl1 RNA is then required for the association of the
overlapping sense protein-coding mRNA to active polysomes for translation. These 
data reveal another layer of gene expression control at the post-transcriptional 
level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11508 
PMID: 23064229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 2012 Nov 15;491(7424):458-462. doi: 10.1038/nature11540. Epub 2012 Oct
14.

Serine is a natural ligand and allosteric activator of pyruvate kinase M2.

Chaneton B(#)(1), Hillmann P(#)(2), Zheng L(1), Martin ACL(2), Maddocks ODK(1),
Chokkathukalam A(3), Coyle JE(2), Jankevics A(3)(4), Holding FP(2), Vousden
KH(1), Frezza C(1), O'Reilly M(2), Gottlieb E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, The Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Switchback
Road, Glasgow, G61 1BD, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(2)Astex Pharmaceuticals, 436 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, CB4
0QA, United Kingdom.
(3)Institute of Molecular, Cell and Systems Biology, College of Medical,
Veterinary and Life Sciences, Joseph Black Building, B3.09, University of
Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ, Scotland, United Kingdom.
(4)Groningen Bioinformatics Centre, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and
Biotechnology Institute, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Apr 18;496(7445):386.

Cancer cells exhibit several unique metabolic phenotypes that are critical for
cell growth and proliferation. Specifically, they overexpress the M2 isoform of
the tightly regulated enzyme pyruvate kinase (PKM2), which controls glycolytic
flux, and are highly dependent on de novo biosynthesis of serine and glycine.
Here we describe a new rheostat-like mechanistic relationship between PKM2
activity and serine biosynthesis. We show that serine can bind to and activate
human PKM2, and that PKM2 activity in cells is reduced in response to serine
deprivation. This reduction in PKM2 activity shifts cells to a fuel-efficient
mode in which more pyruvate is diverted to the mitochondria and more
glucose-derived carbon is channelled into serine biosynthesis to support cell
proliferation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11540 
PMCID: PMC3894725
PMID: 23064226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):244-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11571.

Mechanisms for oscillatory true polar wander.

Creveling JR(1), Mitrovica JX, Chan NH, Latychev K, Matsuyama I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, 20 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. jcrevel@gps.caltech.edu

Palaeomagnetic studies of Palaeoproterozoic to Cretaceous rocks propose a suite
of large and relatively rapid (tens of degrees over 10 to 100 million years)
excursions of the rotation pole relative to the surface geography, or true polar 
wander (TPW). These excursions may be linked in an oscillatory, approximately
coaxial succession about the centre of the contemporaneous supercontinent. Within
the framework of a standard rotational theory, in which a delayed viscous
adjustment of the rotational bulge acts to stabilize the rotation axis,
geodynamic models for oscillatory TPW generally appeal to consecutive, opposite
loading phases of comparable magnitude. Here we extend a nonlinear rotational
stability theory to incorporate the stabilizing effect of TPW-induced elastic
stresses in the lithosphere. We demonstrate that convectively driven inertia
perturbations acting on a nearly prolate, non-hydrostatic Earth with an effective
elastic lithospheric thickness of about 10 kilometres yield oscillatory TPW paths
consistent with palaeomagnetic inferences. This estimate of elastic thickness can
be reduced, even to zero, if the rotation axis is stabilized by long-term excess 
ellipticity in the plane of the TPW. We speculate that these sources of
stabilization, acting on TPW driven by a time-varying mantle flow field, provide 
a mechanism for linking the distinct, oscillatory TPW events of the past few
billion years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11571 
PMID: 23135471 


168. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):240-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11566.

Greenland ice-sheet contribution to sea-level rise buffered by meltwater storage 
in firn.

Harper J(1), Humphrey N, Pfeffer WT, Brown J, Fettweis X.

Author information: 
(1)Geosciences, University of Montana, Missoula, Montana 59812, USA.
joel@mso.umt.edu

Surface melt on the Greenland ice sheet has shown increasing trends in areal
extent and duration since the beginning of the satellite era. Records for melt
were broken in 2005, 2007, 2010 and 2012. Much of the increased surface melt is
occurring in the percolation zone, a region of the accumulation area that is
perennially covered by snow and firn (partly compacted snow). The fate of melt
water in the percolation zone is poorly constrained: some may travel away from
its point of origin and eventually influence the ice sheet's flow dynamics and
mass balance and the global sea level, whereas some may simply infiltrate into
cold snow or firn and refreeze with none of these effects. Here we quantify the
existing water storage capacity of the percolation zone of the Greenland ice
sheet and show the potential for hundreds of gigatonnes of meltwater storage. We 
collected in situ observations of firn structure and meltwater retention along a 
roughly 85-kilometre-long transect of the melting accumulation area. Our data
show that repeated infiltration events in which melt water penetrates deeply
(more than 10 metres) eventually fill all pore space with water. As future
surface melt intensifies under Arctic warming, a fraction of melt water that
would otherwise contribute to sea-level rise will fill existing pore space of the
percolation zone. We estimate the lower and upper bounds of this storage sink to 
be 322 ± 44 gigatonnes and  1,289(+388)(-252) gigatonnes, respectively.
Furthermore, we find that decades are required to fill this pore space under a
range of plausible future climate conditions. Hence, routing of surface melt
water into filling the pore space of the firn column will delay expansion of the 
area contributing to sea-level rise, although once the pore space is filled it
cannot quickly be regenerated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11566 
PMID: 23135470 


169. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11594.

Integration of chemical catalysis with extractive fermentation to produce fuels.

Anbarasan P(1), Baer ZC, Sreekumar S, Gross E, Binder JB, Blanch HW, Clark DS,
Toste FD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

Nearly one hundred years ago, the fermentative production of acetone by
Clostridium acetobutylicum provided a crucial alternative source of this solvent 
for manufacture of the explosive cordite. Today there is a resurgence of interest
in solventogenic Clostridium species to produce n-butanol and ethanol for use as 
renewable alternative transportation fuels. Acetone, a product of
acetone-n-butanol-ethanol (ABE) fermentation, harbours a nucleophilic α-carbon,
which is amenable to C-C bond formation with the electrophilic alcohols produced 
in ABE fermentation. This functionality can be used to form higher-molecular-mass
hydrocarbons similar to those found in current jet and diesel fuels. Here we
describe the integration of biological and chemocatalytic routes to convert ABE
fermentation products efficiently into ketones by a palladium-catalysed
alkylation. Tuning of the reaction conditions permits the production of either
petrol or jet and diesel precursors. Glyceryl tributyrate was used for the in
situ selective extraction of both acetone and alcohols to enable the simple
integration of ABE fermentation and chemical catalysis, while reducing the energy
demand of the overall process. This process provides a means to selectively
produce petrol, jet and diesel blend stocks from lignocellulosic and cane sugars 
at yields near their theoretical maxima.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11594 
PMID: 23135469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):232-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11578.

Non-invasive imaging through opaque scattering layers.

Bertolotti J(1), van Putten EG, Blum C, Lagendijk A, Vos WL, Mosk AP.

Author information: 
(1)Complex Photonic Systems, MESA+ Institute for Nanotechnology, University of
Twente, PO Box 217, 7500 AE Enschede, The Netherlands. j.bertolotti@utwente.nl

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):197-8.

Non-invasive optical imaging techniques, such as optical coherence tomography,
are essential diagnostic tools in many disciplines, from the life sciences to
nanotechnology. However, present methods are not able to image through opaque
layers that scatter all the incident light. Even a very thin layer of a
scattering material can appear opaque and hide any objects behind it. Although
great progress has been made recently with methods such as ghost imaging and
wavefront shaping, present procedures are still invasive because they require
either a detector or a nonlinear material to be placed behind the scattering
layer. Here we report an optical method that allows non-invasive imaging of a
fluorescent object that is completely hidden behind an opaque scattering layer.
We illuminate the object with laser light that has passed through the scattering 
layer. We scan the angle of incidence of the laser beam and detect the total
fluorescence of the object from the front. From the detected signal, we obtain
the image of the hidden object using an iterative algorithm. As a proof of
concept, we retrieve a detailed image of a fluorescent object, comparable in size
(50 micrometres) to a typical human cell, hidden 6 millimetres behind an opaque
optical diffuser, and an image of a complex biological sample enclosed between
two opaque screens. This approach to non-invasive imaging through strongly
scattering media can be generalized to other contrast mechanisms and geometries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11578 
PMID: 23135468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):222-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11600.

Principles for designing ideal protein structures.

Koga N(1), Tatsumi-Koga R, Liu G, Xiao R, Acton TB, Montelione GT, Baker D.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):204-5.

Unlike random heteropolymers, natural proteins fold into unique ordered
structures. Understanding how these are encoded in amino-acid sequences is
complicated by energetically unfavourable non-ideal features--for example kinked 
α-helices, bulged β-strands, strained loops and buried polar groups--that arise
in proteins from evolutionary selection for biological function or from neutral
drift. Here we describe an approach to designing ideal protein structures
stabilized by completely consistent local and non-local interactions. The
approach is based on a set of rules relating secondary structure patterns to
protein tertiary motifs, which make possible the design of funnel-shaped protein 
folding energy landscapes leading into the target folded state. Guided by these
rules, we designed sequences predicted to fold into ideal protein structures
consisting of α-helices, β-strands and minimal loops. Designs for five different 
topologies were found to be monomeric and very stable and to adopt structures in 
solution nearly identical to the computational models. These results illuminate
how the folding funnels of natural proteins arise and provide the foundation for 
engineering a new generation of functional proteins free from natural evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11600 
PMCID: PMC3705962
PMID: 23135467  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):228-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11521. Epub 2012 Oct 31.

Superluminous supernovae at redshifts of 2.05 and 3.90.

Cooke J(1), Sullivan M, Gal-Yam A, Barton EJ, Carlberg RG, Ryan-Weber EV, Horst
C, Omori Y, Díaz CG.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Astrophysics and Supercomputing, Swinburne University of
Technology, PO Box 218, H30, Hawthorn, Victoria 3122, Australia.
jcooke@astro.swin.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):205-6.

A rare class of 'superluminous' supernovae that are about ten or more times more 
luminous at their peaks than other types of luminous supernova has recently been 
found at low to intermediate redshifts. A small subset of these events have
luminosities that evolve slowly and result in radiated energies of up to about
10(51) ergs. Therefore, they are probably examples of 'pair-instability' or
'pulsational pair-instability' supernovae with estimated progenitor masses of 100
to 250 times that of the Sun. These events are exceedingly rare at low redshift, 
but are expected to be more common at high redshift because the mass distribution
of the earliest stars was probably skewed to high values. Here we report the
detection of two superluminous supernovae, at redshifts of 2.05 and 3.90, that
have slowly evolving light curves. We estimate the rate of events at redshifts of
2 and 4 to be approximately ten times higher than the rate at low redshift. The
extreme luminosities of superluminous supernovae extend the redshift limit for
supernova detection using present technology, previously 2.36 (ref. 8), and
provide a way of investigating the deaths of the first generation of stars to
form after the Big Bang.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11521 
PMID: 23123848 


173. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):218-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11586. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

Filamentous bacteria transport electrons over centimetre distances.

Pfeffer C(1), Larsen S, Song J, Dong M, Besenbacher F, Meyer RL, Kjeldsen KU,
Schreiber L, Gorby YA, El-Naggar MY, Leung KM, Schramm A, Risgaard-Petersen N,
Nielsen LP.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Geomicrobiology, Department of Bioscience, Aarhus University, 8000 
Aarhus C, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Dec;10(12):802-3.
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):201-2.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Mar;12(3):150.

Oxygen consumption in marine sediments is often coupled to the oxidation of
sulphide generated by degradation of organic matter in deeper, oxygen-free
layers. Geochemical observations have shown that this coupling can be mediated by
electric currents carried by unidentified electron transporters across
centimetre-wide zones. Here we present evidence that the native conductors are
long, filamentous bacteria. They abounded in sediment zones with electric
currents and along their length they contained strings with distinct properties
in accordance with a function as electron transporters. Living, electrical cables
add a new dimension to the understanding of interactions in nature and may find
use in technology development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11586 
PMID: 23103872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):274-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11598. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

Direct imaging of RecA nucleation and growth on single molecules of SSB-coated
ssDNA.

Bell JC(1), Plank JL, Dombrowski CC, Kowalczykowski SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, California 95616,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):198-200.

Escherichia coli RecA is the defining member of a ubiquitous class of DNA
strand-exchange proteins that are essential for homologous recombination, a
pathway that maintains genomic integrity by repairing broken DNA. To function,
filaments of RecA must nucleate and grow on single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) in direct
competition with ssDNA-binding protein (SSB), which rapidly binds and
continuously sequesters ssDNA, kinetically blocking RecA assembly. This dynamic
self-assembly on a DNA lattice, in competition with another protein, is unique
for the RecA family compared to other filament-forming proteins such as actin and
tubulin. The complexity of this process has hindered our understanding of RecA
filament assembly because ensemble measurements cannot reliably distinguish
between the nucleation and growth phases, despite extensive and diverse attempts.
Previous single-molecule assays have measured the nucleation and growth of
RecA--and its eukaryotic homologue RAD51--on naked double-stranded DNA and ssDNA;
however, the template for RecA self-assembly in vivo is SSB-coated ssDNA. Using
single-molecule microscopy, here we directly visualize RecA filament assembly on 
single molecules of SSB-coated ssDNA, simultaneously measuring nucleation and
growth. We establish that a dimer of RecA is required for nucleation, followed by
growth of the filament through monomer addition, consistent with the finding that
nucleation, but not growth, is modulated by nucleotide and magnesium ion
cofactors. Filament growth is bidirectional, albeit faster in the 5'→3'
direction. Both nucleation and growth are repressed at physiological conditions, 
highlighting the essential role of recombination mediators in potentiating
assembly in vivo. We define a two-step kinetic mechanism in which RecA nucleates 
on transiently exposed ssDNA during SSB sliding and/or partial dissociation (DNA 
unwrapping) and then the RecA filament grows. We further demonstrate that the
recombination mediator protein pair, RecOR (RecO and RecR), accelerates both RecA
nucleation and filament growth, and that the introduction of RecF further
stimulates RecA nucleation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11598 
PMCID: PMC4112059
PMID: 23103864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):259-63. doi: 10.1038/nature11535. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

IL-22BP is regulated by the inflammasome and modulates tumorigenesis in the
intestine.

Huber S(1), Gagliani N, Zenewicz LA, Huber FJ, Bosurgi L, Hu B, Hedl M, Zhang W, 
O'Connor W Jr, Murphy AJ, Valenzuela DM, Yancopoulos GD, Booth CJ, Cho JH, Ouyang
W, Abraham C, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Chronic mucosal inflammation and tissue damage predisposes patients to the
development of colorectal cancer. This association could be explained by the
hypothesis that the same factors and pathways important for wound healing also
promote tumorigenesis. A sensor of tissue damage should induce these factors to
promote tissue repair and regulate their action to prevent development of cancer.
Interleukin 22 (IL-22), a cytokine of the IL-10 superfamily, has an important
role in colonic epithelial cell repair, and its levels are increased in the blood
and intestine of inflammatory bowel disease patients. This cytokine can be
neutralized by the soluble IL-22 receptor, known as the IL-22 binding protein
(IL-22BP, also known as IL22RA2); however, the significance of endogenous IL-22BP
in vivo and the pathways that regulate this receptor are unknown. Here we
describe that IL-22BP has a crucial role in controlling tumorigenesis and
epithelial cell proliferation in the colon. IL-22BP is highly expressed by
dendritic cells in the colon in steady-state conditions. Sensing of intestinal
tissue damage via the NLRP3 or NLRP6 inflammasomes led to an IL-18-dependent
downregulation of IL-22BP, thereby increasing the ratio of IL-22/IL-22BP. IL-22, 
which is induced during intestinal tissue damage, exerted protective properties
during the peak of damage, but promoted tumour development if uncontrolled during
the recovery phase. Thus, the IL-22-IL-22BP axis critically regulates intestinal 
tissue repair and tumorigenesis in the colon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11535 
PMCID: PMC3493690
PMID: 23075849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):207-11. doi: 10.1038/nature11572. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

An Earth-mass planet orbiting α Centauri B.

Dumusque X(1), Pepe F, Lovis C, Ségransan D, Sahlmann J, Benz W, Bouchy F, Mayor 
M, Queloz D, Santos N, Udry S.

Author information: 
(1)Observatoire de Genève, Université de Genève, 51 chemin des Maillettes,
CH-1290 Sauverny, Switzerland. xavier.dumusque@unige.ch

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):200-1.

Exoplanets down to the size of Earth have been found, but not in the habitable
zone--that is, at a distance from the parent star at which water, if present,
would be liquid. There are planets in the habitable zone of stars cooler than our
Sun, but for reasons such as tidal locking and strong stellar activity, they are 
unlikely to harbour water-carbon life as we know it. The detection of a habitable
Earth-mass planet orbiting a star similar to our Sun is extremely difficult,
because such a signal is overwhelmed by stellar perturbations. Here we report the
detection of an Earth-mass planet orbiting our neighbour star α Centauri B, a
member of the closest stellar system to the Sun. The planet has an orbital period
of 3.236 days and is about 0.04 astronomical units from the star (one
astronomical unit is the Earth-Sun distance).

DOI: 10.1038/nature11572 
PMID: 23075844 


177. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11501. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

Regulatory B cells control T-cell autoimmunity through IL-21-dependent cognate
interactions.

Yoshizaki A(1), Miyagaki T, DiLillo DJ, Matsushita T, Horikawa M, Kountikov EI,
Spolski R, Poe JC, Leonard WJ, Tedder TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Dec;12(12):808-9.

B cells regulate immune responses by producing antigen-specific antibodies.
However, specific B-cell subsets can also negatively regulate T-cell immune
responses, and have been termed regulatory B cells. Human and mouse regulatory B 
cells (B10 cells) with the ability to express the inhibitory cytokine
interleukin-10 (IL-10) have been identified. Although rare, B10 cells are potent 
negative regulators of antigen-specific inflammation and T-cell-dependent
autoimmune diseases in mice. How B10-cell IL-10 production and regulation of
antigen-specific immune responses are controlled in vivo without inducing
systemic immunosuppression is unknown. Using a mouse model for multiple
sclerosis, here we show that B10-cell maturation into functional IL-10-secreting 
effector cells that inhibit in vivo autoimmune disease requires IL-21 and
CD40-dependent cognate interactions with T cells. Moreover, the ex vivo provision
of CD40 and IL-21 receptor signals can drive B10-cell development and expansion
by four-million-fold, and generate B10 effector cells producing IL-10 that
markedly inhibit disease symptoms when transferred into mice with established
autoimmune disease. The ex vivo expansion and reinfusion of autologous B10 cells 
may provide a novel and effective in vivo treatment for severe autoimmune
diseases that are resistant to current therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11501 
PMCID: PMC3493692
PMID: 23064231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):284-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11509. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

Structure and function of Zucchini endoribonuclease in piRNA biogenesis.

Nishimasu H(1), Ishizu H, Saito K, Fukuhara S, Kamatani MK, Bonnefond L,
Matsumoto N, Nishizawa T, Nakanaga K, Aoki J, Ishitani R, Siomi H, Siomi MC,
Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) silence transposons to maintain genome integrity
in animal germ lines. piRNAs are classified as primary and secondary piRNAs,
depending on their biogenesis machinery. Primary piRNAs are processed from long
non-coding RNA precursors transcribed from piRNA clusters in the genome through
the primary processing pathway. Although the existence of a ribonuclease
participating in this pathway has been predicted, its molecular identity remained
unknown. Here we show that Zucchini (Zuc), a mitochondrial phospholipase D (PLD) 
superfamily member, is an endoribonuclease essential for primary piRNA
biogenesis. We solved the crystal structure of Drosophila melanogaster Zuc
(DmZuc) at 1.75 Å resolution. The structure revealed that DmZuc has a positively 
charged, narrow catalytic groove at the dimer interface, which could accommodate 
a single-stranded, but not a double-stranded, RNA. DmZuc and the mouse homologue 
MmZuc (also known as Pld6 and MitoPLD) showed endoribonuclease activity for
single-stranded RNAs in vitro. The RNA cleavage products bear a 5'-monophosphate 
group, a hallmark of mature piRNAs. Mutational analyses revealed that the
conserved active-site residues of DmZuc are critical for the ribonuclease
activity in vitro, and for piRNA maturation and transposon silencing in vivo. We 
propose a model for piRNA biogenesis in animal germ lines, in which the Zuc
endoribonuclease has a key role in primary piRNA maturation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11509 
PMID: 23064230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):212-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11527. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

Input-specific control of reward and aversion in the ventral tegmental area.

Lammel S(1), Lim BK, Ran C, Huang KW, Betley MJ, Tye KM, Deisseroth K, Malenka
RC.

Author information: 
(1)Nancy Pritzker Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences,
Stanford University School of Medicine, 265 Campus Drive, Stanford, California
94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Dec;13(12):814.

Ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons have important roles in adaptive
and pathological brain functions related to reward and motivation. However, it is
unknown whether subpopulations of VTA dopamine neurons participate in distinct
circuits that encode different motivational signatures, and whether inputs to the
VTA differentially modulate such circuits. Here we show that, because of
differences in synaptic connectivity, activation of inputs to the VTA from the
laterodorsal tegmentum and the lateral habenula elicit reward and aversion in
mice, respectively. Laterodorsal tegmentum neurons preferentially synapse on
dopamine neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens lateral shell, whereas
lateral habenula neurons synapse primarily on dopamine neurons projecting to the 
medial prefrontal cortex as well as on GABAergic (γ-aminobutyric-acid-containing)
neurons in the rostromedial tegmental nucleus. These results establish that
distinct VTA circuits generate reward and aversion, and thereby provide a new
framework for understanding the circuit basis of adaptive and pathological
motivated behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11527 
PMCID: PMC3493743
PMID: 23064228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):279-83. doi: 10.1038/nature11502. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

The structural biochemistry of Zucchini implicates it as a nuclease in piRNA
biogenesis.

Ipsaro JJ(1), Haase AD, Knott SR, Joshua-Tor L, Hannon GJ.

Author information: 
(1)W. M. Keck Structural Biology Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold 
Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.

PIWI-family proteins and their associated small RNAs (piRNAs) act in an
evolutionarily conserved innate immune mechanism to provide essential protection 
for germ-cell genomes against the activity of mobile genetic elements. piRNA
populations comprise a molecular definition of transposons, which permits them to
distinguish transposons from host genes and selectively silence them. piRNAs can 
be generated in two distinct ways, forming either primary or secondary piRNAs.
Primary piRNAs come from discrete genomic loci, termed piRNA clusters, and seem
to be derived from long, single-stranded precursors. The biogenesis of primary
piRNAs involves at least two nucleolytic steps. An unknown enzyme cleaves piRNA
cluster transcripts to generate monophosphorylated piRNA 5' ends. piRNA 3' ends
are probably formed by exonucleolytic trimming, after a piRNA precursor is loaded
into its PIWI partner. Secondary piRNAs arise during the adaptive 'ping-pong'
cycle, with their 5' termini being formed by the activity of PIWIs themselves. A 
number of proteins have been implicated genetically in primary piRNA biogenesis. 
One of these, Drosophila melanogaster Zucchini, is a member of the
phospholipase-D family of phosphodiesterases, which includes both phospholipases 
and nucleases. Here we produced a dimeric, soluble fragment of the mouse Zucchini
homologue (mZuc; also known as PLD6) and show that it possesses
single-strand-specific nuclease activity. A crystal structure of mZuc at 1.75 Å
resolution indicates greater architectural similarity to phospholipase-D family
nucleases than to phospholipases. Together, our data suggest that the Zucchini
proteins act in primary piRNA biogenesis as nucleases, perhaps generating the 5' 
ends of primary piRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11502 
PMCID: PMC3493678
PMID: 23064227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature11444. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

CaMKII determines mitochondrial stress responses in heart.

Joiner ML(1), Koval OM, Li J, He BJ, Allamargot C, Gao Z, Luczak ED, Hall DD,
Fink BD, Chen B, Yang J, Moore SA, Scholz TD, Strack S, Mohler PJ, Sivitz WI,
Song LS, Anderson ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Cardiovascular Center, Carver College of
Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.
mei-ling-joiner@uiowa.edu

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2013 Apr 26;112(9):1208-11.
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):E3.
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):E1-2.

Myocardial cell death is initiated by excessive mitochondrial Ca(2+) entry
causing Ca(2+) overload, mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP)
opening and dissipation of the mitochondrial inner membrane potential (ΔΨm).
However, the signalling pathways that control mitochondrial Ca(2+) entry through 
the inner membrane mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter (MCU) are not known. The
multifunctional Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is
activated in ischaemia reperfusion, myocardial infarction and neurohumoral
injury, common causes of myocardial death and heart failure; these findings
suggest that CaMKII could couple disease stress to mitochondrial injury. Here we 
show that CaMKII promotes mPTP opening and myocardial death by increasing MCU
current (I(MCU)). Mitochondrial-targeted CaMKII inhibitory protein or cyclosporin
A, an mPTP antagonist with clinical efficacy in ischaemia reperfusion injury,
equivalently prevent mPTP opening, ΔΨm deterioration and diminish mitochondrial
disruption and programmed cell death in response to ischaemia reperfusion injury.
Mice with myocardial and mitochondrial-targeted CaMKII inhibition have reduced
I(MCU) and are resistant to ischaemia reperfusion injury, myocardial infarction
and neurohumoral injury, suggesting that pathological actions of CaMKII are
substantially mediated by increasing I(MCU). Our findings identify CaMKII
activity as a central mechanism for mitochondrial Ca(2+) entry in myocardial cell
death, and indicate that mitochondrial-targeted CaMKII inhibition could prevent
or reduce myocardial death and heart failure in response to common experimental
forms of pathophysiological stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11444 
PMCID: PMC3471377
PMID: 23051746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11516. Epub 2012 Oct 7.

Genetic programs constructed from layered logic gates in single cells.

Moon TS(1), Lou C, Tamsir A, Stanton BC, Voigt CA.

Author information: 
(1)Synthetic Biology Center, Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Genetic programs function to integrate environmental sensors, implement signal
processing algorithms and control expression dynamics. These programs consist of 
integrated genetic circuits that individually implement operations ranging from
digital logic to dynamic circuits, and they have been used in various cellular
engineering applications, including the implementation of process control in
metabolic networks and the coordination of spatial differentiation in artificial 
tissues. A key limitation is that the circuits are based on biochemical
interactions occurring in the confined volume of the cell, so the size of
programs has been limited to a few circuits. Here we apply part mining and
directed evolution to build a set of transcriptional AND gates in Escherichia
coli. Each AND gate integrates two promoter inputs and controls one promoter
output. This allows the gates to be layered by having the output promoter of an
upstream circuit serve as the input promoter for a downstream circuit. Each gate 
consists of a transcription factor that requires a second chaperone protein to
activate the output promoter. Multiple activator-chaperone pairs are identified
from type III secretion pathways in different strains of bacteria. Directed
evolution is applied to increase the dynamic range and orthogonality of the
circuits. These gates are connected in different permutations to form programs,
the largest of which is a 4-input AND gate that consists of 3 circuits that
integrate 4 inducible systems, thus requiring 11 regulatory proteins. Measuring
the performance of individual gates is sufficient to capture the behaviour of the
complete program. Errors in the output due to delays (faults), a common problem
for layered circuits, are not observed. This work demonstrates the successful
layering of orthogonal logic gates, a design strategy that could enable the
construction of large, integrated circuits in single cells.


PMCID: PMC3904217
PMID: 23041931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):254-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11465.

Adenoma-linked barrier defects and microbial products drive IL-23/IL-17-mediated 
tumour growth.

Grivennikov SI(1), Wang K, Mucida D, Stewart CA, Schnabl B, Jauch D, Taniguchi K,
Yu GY, Osterreicher CH, Hung KE, Datz C, Feng Y, Fearon ER, Oukka M, Tessarollo
L, Coppola V, Yarovinsky F, Cheroutre H, Eckmann L, Trinchieri G, Karin M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Gene Regulation and Signal Transduction, Department of
Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, 
California 92093-0723, USA.

Approximately 2% of colorectal cancer is linked to pre-existing inflammation
known as colitis-associated cancer, but most develops in patients without
underlying inflammatory bowel disease. Colorectal cancer often follows a genetic 
pathway whereby loss of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumour suppressor
and activation of β-catenin are followed by mutations in K-Ras, PIK3CA and TP53, 
as the tumour emerges and progresses. Curiously, however, 'inflammatory
signature' genes characteristic of colitis-associated cancer are also upregulated
in colorectal cancer. Further, like most solid tumours, colorectal cancer
exhibits immune/inflammatory infiltrates, referred to as 'tumour-elicited
inflammation'. Although infiltrating CD4(+) T(H)1 cells and CD8(+) cytotoxic T
cells constitute a positive prognostic sign in colorectal cancer, myeloid cells
and T-helper interleukin (IL)-17-producing (T(H)17) cells promote tumorigenesis, 
and a 'T(H)17 expression signature' in stage I/II colorectal cancer is associated
with a drastic decrease in disease-free survival. Despite its pathogenic
importance, the mechanisms responsible for the appearance of tumour-elicited
inflammation are poorly understood. Many epithelial cancers develop proximally to
microbial communities, which are physically separated from immune cells by an
epithelial barrier. We investigated mechanisms responsible for tumour-elicited
inflammation in a mouse model of colorectal tumorigenesis, which, like human
colorectal cancer, exhibits upregulation of IL-23 and IL-17. Here we show that
IL-23 signalling promotes tumour growth and progression, and development of a
tumoural IL-17 response. IL-23 is mainly produced by tumour-associated myeloid
cells that are likely to be activated by microbial products, which penetrate the 
tumours but not adjacent tissue. Both early and late colorectal neoplasms exhibit
defective expression of several barrier proteins. We propose that barrier
deterioration induced by colorectal-cancer-initiating genetic lesions results in 
adenoma invasion by microbial products that trigger tumour-elicited inflammation,
which in turn drives tumour growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11465 
PMCID: PMC3601659
PMID: 23034650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):119-24. doi: 10.1038/nature11582.

Host-microbe interactions have shaped the genetic architecture of inflammatory
bowel disease.

Jostins L(1), Ripke S, Weersma RK, Duerr RH, McGovern DP, Hui KY, Lee JC, Schumm 
LP, Sharma Y, Anderson CA, Essers J, Mitrovic M, Ning K, Cleynen I, Theatre E,
Spain SL, Raychaudhuri S, Goyette P, Wei Z, Abraham C, Achkar JP, Ahmad T,
Amininejad L, Ananthakrishnan AN, Andersen V, Andrews JM, Baidoo L, Balschun T,
Bampton PA, Bitton A, Boucher G, Brand S, Büning C, Cohain A, Cichon S, D'Amato
M, De Jong D, Devaney KL, Dubinsky M, Edwards C, Ellinghaus D, Ferguson LR,
Franchimont D, Fransen K, Gearry R, Georges M, Gieger C, Glas J, Haritunians T,
Hart A, Hawkey C, Hedl M, Hu X, Karlsen TH, Kupcinskas L, Kugathasan S, Latiano
A, Laukens D, Lawrance IC, Lees CW, Louis E, Mahy G, Mansfield J, Morgan AR,
Mowat C, Newman W, Palmieri O, Ponsioen CY, Potocnik U, Prescott NJ, Regueiro M, 
Rotter JI, Russell RK, Sanderson JD, Sans M, Satsangi J, Schreiber S, Simms LA,
Sventoraityte J, Targan SR, Taylor KD, Tremelling M, Verspaget HW, De Vos M,
Wijmenga C, Wilson DC, Winkelmann J, Xavier RJ, Zeissig S, Zhang B, Zhang CK,
Zhao H; International IBD Genetics Consortium (IIBDGC), Silverberg MS, Annese V, 
Hakonarson H, Brant SR, Radford-Smith G, Mathew CG, Rioux JD, Schadt EE, Daly MJ,
Franke A, Parkes M, Vermeire S, Barrett JC, Cho JH.

Collaborators: Barclay M, Peyrin-Biroulet L, Chamaillard M, Colombel JF, Cottone 
M, Croft A, D'Incà R, Halfvarson J, Hanigan K, Henderson P, Hugot JP, Karban A,
Kennedy NA, Khan MA, Lémann M, Levine A, Massey D, Milla M, Montgomery GW, Ng SM,
Oikonomou I, Peeters H, Proctor DD, Rahier JF, Roberts R, Rutgeerts P, Seibold F,
Stronati L, Taylor KM, Törkvist L, Ublick K, Van Limbergen J, Van Gossum A, Vatn 
MH, Zhang H, Zhang W, Andrews JM, Bampton PA, Barclay M, Florin TH, Gearry R,
Krishnaprasad K, Lawrance IC, Mahy G, Montgomery GW, Radford-Smith G, Roberts RL,
Simms LA, Amininijad L, Cleynen I, Dewit O, Franchimont D, Georges M, Laukens D, 
Peeters H, Rahier JF, Rutgeerts P, Theatre E, Van Gossum A, Vermeire S, Aumais G,
Baidoo L, Barrie AM 3rd, Beck K, Bernard EJ, Binion DG, Bitton A, Brant SR, Cho
JH, Cohen A, Croitoru K, Daly MJ, Datta LW, Deslandres C, Duerr RH, Dutridge D,
Ferguson J, Fultz J, Goyette P, Greenberg GR, Haritunians T, Jobin G, Katz S,
Lahaie RG, McGovern DP, Nelson L, Ng SM, Ning K, Oikonomou I, Paré P, Proctor DD,
Regueiro MD, Rioux JD, Ruggiero E, Schumm L, Schwartz M, Scott R, Sharma Y,
Silverberg MS, Spears D, Steinhart A, Stempak JM, Swoger JM, Tsagarelis C, Zhang 
W, Zhang C, Zhao H, Aerts J, Ahmad T, Arbury H, Attwood A, Auton A, Ball SG,
Balmforth AJ, Barnes C, Barrett JC, Barroso I, Barton A, Bennett AJ, Bhaskar S,
Blaszczyk K, Bowes J, Brand OJ, Braund PS, Bredin F, Breen G, Brown MJ, Bruce IN,
Bull J, Burren OS, Burton J, Byrnes J, Caesar S, Cardin N, Clee CM, Coffey AJ,
Connell JM, Conrad DF, Cooper JD, Dominiczak AF, Downes K, Drummond HE, Dudakia
D, Dunham A, Ebbs B, Eccles D, Edkins S, Edwards C, Elliot A, Emery P, Evans DM, 
Evans G, Eyre S, Farmer A, Ferrier IN, Flynn E, Forbes A, Forty L, Franklyn JA,
Frayling TM, Freathy RM, Giannoulatou E, Gibbs P, Gilbert P, Gordon-Smith K, Gray
E, Green E, Groves CJ, Grozeva D, Gwilliam R, Hall A, Hammond N, Hardy M,
Harrison P, Hassanali N, Hebaishi H, Hines S, Hinks A, Hitman GA, Hocking L,
Holmes C, Howard E, Howard P, Howson JM, Hughes D, Hunt S, Isaacs JD, Jain M,
Jewell DP, Johnson T, Jolley JD, Jones IR, Jones LA, Kirov G, Langford CF,
Lango-Allen H, Lathrop GM, Lee J, Lee KL, Lees C, Lewis K, Lindgren CM,
Maisuria-Armer M, Maller J, Mansfield J, Marchini JL, Martin P, Massey DC,
McArdle WL, McGuffin P, McLay KE, McVean G, Mentzer A, Mimmack ML, Morgan AE,
Morris AP, Mowat C, Munroe PB, Myers S, Newman W, Nimmo ER, O'Donovan MC,
Onipinla A, Ovington NR, Owen MJ, Palin K, Palotie A, Parnell K, Pearson R,
Pernet D, Perry JR, Phillips A, Plagnol V, Prescott NJ, Prokopenko I, Quail MA,
Rafelt S, Rayner NW, Reid DM, Renwick A, Ring SM, Robertson N, Robson S, Russell 
E, St Clair D, Sambrook JG, Sanderson JD, Sawcer SJ, Schuilenburg H, Scott CE,
Scott R, Seal S, Shaw-Hawkins S, Shields BM, Simmonds MJ, Smyth DJ,
Somaskantharajah E, Spanova K, Steer S, Stephens J, Stevens HE, Stirrups K, Stone
MA, Strachan DP, Su Z, Symmons DP, Thompson JR, Thomson W, Tobin MD, Travers ME, 
Turnbull C, Vukcevic D, Wain LV, Walker M, Walker NM, Wallace C, Warren-Perry M, 
Watkins NA, Webster J, Weedon MN, Wilson AG, Woodburn M, Wordsworth BP, Yau C,
Young AH, Zeggini E, Brown MA, Burton PR, Caulfield MJ, Compston A, Farrall M,
Gough SC, Hall AS, Hattersley AT, Hill AV, Mathew CG, Pembrey M, Satsangi J,
Stratton MR, Worthington J, Hurles ME, Duncanson A, Ouwehand WH, Parkes M, Rahman
N, Todd JA, Samani NJ, Kwiatkowski DP, McCarthy MI, Craddock N, Deloukas P,
Donnelly P, Blackwell JM, Bramon E, Casas JP, Corvin A, Jankowski J, Markus HS,
Palmer CN, Plomin R, Rautanen A, Trembath RC, Viswanathan AC, Wood NW, Spencer
CC, Band G, Bellenguez C, Freeman C, Hellenthal G, Giannoulatou E, Pirinen M,
Pearson R, Strange A, Blackburn H, Bumpstead SJ, Dronov S, Gillman M, Jayakumar
A, McCann OT, Liddle J, Potter SC, Ravindrarajah R, Ricketts M, Waller M, Weston 
P, Widaa S, Whittaker P.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1HH, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Dec;9(12):685.

Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, the two common forms of inflammatory
bowel disease (IBD), affect over 2.5 million people of European ancestry, with
rising prevalence in other populations. Genome-wide association studies and
subsequent meta-analyses of these two diseases as separate phenotypes have
implicated previously unsuspected mechanisms, such as autophagy, in their
pathogenesis and showed that some IBD loci are shared with other inflammatory
diseases. Here we expand on the knowledge of relevant pathways by undertaking a
meta-analysis of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis genome-wide association
scans, followed by extensive validation of significant findings, with a combined 
total of more than 75,000 cases and controls. We identify 71 new associations,
for a total of 163 IBD loci, that meet genome-wide significance thresholds. Most 
loci contribute to both phenotypes, and both directional (consistently favouring 
one allele over the course of human history) and balancing (favouring the
retention of both alleles within populations) selection effects are evident. Many
IBD loci are also implicated in other immune-mediated disorders, most notably
with ankylosing spondylitis and psoriasis. We also observe considerable overlap
between susceptibility loci for IBD and mycobacterial infection. Gene
co-expression network analysis emphasizes this relationship, with pathways shared
between host responses to mycobacteria and those predisposing to IBD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11582 
PMCID: PMC3491803
PMID: 23128233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11512.

Fault healing promotes high-frequency earthquakes in laboratory experiments and
on natural faults.

McLaskey GC(1), Thomas AM, Glaser SD, Nadeau RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA. gmclaskey@usgs.gov

Faults strengthen or heal with time in stationary contact, and this healing may
be an essential ingredient for the generation of earthquakes. In the laboratory, 
healing is thought to be the result of thermally activated mechanisms that weld
together micrometre-sized asperity contacts on the fault surface, but the
relationship between laboratory measures of fault healing and the seismically
observable properties of earthquakes is at present not well defined. Here we
report on laboratory experiments and seismological observations that show how the
spectral properties of earthquakes vary as a function of fault healing time. In
the laboratory, we find that increased healing causes a disproportionately large 
amount of high-frequency seismic radiation to be produced during fault rupture.
We observe a similar connection between earthquake spectra and recurrence time
for repeating earthquake sequences on natural faults. Healing rates depend on
pressure, temperature and mineralogy, so the connection between seismicity and
healing may help to explain recent observations of large megathrust earthquakes
which indicate that energetic, high-frequency seismic radiation originates from
locations that are distinct from the geodetically inferred locations of
large-amplitude fault slip.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11512 
PMID: 23128232 


186. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature11565.

The elusive Hadean enriched reservoir revealed by 142Nd deficits in Isua Archaean
rocks.

Rizo H(1), Boyet M, Blichert-Toft J, O'Neil J, Rosing MT, Paquette JL.

Author information: 
(1)Clermont Université, Université Blaise Pascal, Laboratoire Magmas et Volcans, 
CNRS UMR 6524, IRD R 163, BP 10448, 63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France.
h.rizo@opgc.univ-bpclermont.fr

The first indisputable evidence for very early differentiation of the silicate
Earth came from the extinct (146)Sm-(142)Nd chronometer. (142)Nd excesses
measured in 3.7-billion-year (Gyr)-old rocks from Isua (southwest Greenland)
relative to modern terrestrial samples imply their derivation from a depleted
mantle formed in the Hadean eon (about 4,570-4,000 Gyr ago). As dictated by mass 
balance, the differentiation event responsible for the formation of the Isua
early-depleted reservoir must also have formed a complementary enriched
component. However, considerable efforts to find early-enriched mantle components
in Isua have so far been unsuccessful. Here we show that the signature of the
Hadean enriched reservoir, complementary to the depleted reservoir in Isua, is
recorded in 3.4-Gyr-old mafic dykes intruding into the Early Archaean rocks. Five
out of seven dykes carry (142)Nd deficits compared to the terrestrial Nd
standard, with three samples yielding resolvable deficits down to -10.6 parts per
million. The enriched component that we report here could have been a mantle
reservoir that differentiated owing to the crystallization of a magma ocean, or
could represent a mafic proto-crust that separated from the mantle more than
4.47 Gyr ago. Our results testify to the existence of an enriched component in
the Hadean, and may suggest that the southwest Greenland mantle preserved
early-formed heterogeneities until at least 3.4 Gyr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11565 
PMID: 23128231 


187. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11513. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

Fluvial response to abrupt global warming at the Palaeocene/Eocene boundary.

Foreman BZ(1), Heller PL, Clementz MT.

Author information: 
(1)University of Wyoming, Department of Geology and Geophysics, 1000 East
University Avenue, Laramie, Wyoming 82071, USA. bforema1@uwyo.edu

Climate strongly affects the production of sediment from mountain catchments as
well as its transport and deposition within adjacent sedimentary basins. However,
identifying climatic influences on basin stratigraphy is complicated by
nonlinearities, feedback loops, lag times, buffering and convergence among
processes within the sediment routeing system. The Palaeocene/Eocene thermal
maximum (PETM) arguably represents the most abrupt and dramatic instance of
global warming in the Cenozoic era and has been proposed to be a geologic
analogue for anthropogenic climate change. Here we evaluate the fluvial response 
in western Colorado to the PETM. Concomitant with the carbon isotope excursion
marking the PETM we document a basin-wide shift to thick, multistoried, sheets of
sandstone characterized by variable channel dimensions, dominance of upper flow
regime sedimentary structures, and prevalent crevasse splay deposits. This
progradation of coarse-grained lithofacies matches model predictions for rapid
increases in sediment flux and discharge, instigated by regional vegetation
overturn and enhanced monsoon precipitation. Yet the change in fluvial deposition
persisted long after the approximately 200,000-year-long PETM with its increased 
carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere, emphasizing the strong role the
protracted transmission of catchment responses to distant depositional systems
has in constructing large-scale basin stratigraphy. Our results, combined with
evidence for increased dissolved loads and terrestrial clay export to world
oceans, indicate that the transient hyper-greenhouse climate of the PETM may
represent a major geomorphic 'system-clearing event', involving a global
mobilization of dissolved and solid sediment loads on Earth's surface.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11513 
PMID: 23128230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature11596.

Observation of spatially ordered structures in a two-dimensional Rydberg gas.

Schauß P(1), Cheneau M, Endres M, Fukuhara T, Hild S, Omran A, Pohl T, Gross C,
Kuhr S, Bloch I.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, 85748 Garching, Germany.
peter.schauss@mpq.mpg.de

The ability to control and tune interactions in ultracold atomic gases has paved 
the way for the realization of new phases of matter. So far, experiments have
achieved a high degree of control over short-range interactions, but the
realization of long-range interactions has become a central focus of research
because it would open up a new realm of many-body physics. Rydberg atoms are
highly suited to this goal because the van der Waals forces between them are many
orders of magnitude larger than those between ground-state atoms. Consequently,
mere laser excitation of ultracold gases can cause strongly correlated many-body 
states to emerge directly when atoms are transferred to Rydberg states. A key
example is a quantum crystal composed of coherent superpositions of different,
spatially ordered configurations of collective excitations. Here we use
high-resolution, in situ Rydberg atom imaging to measure directly strong
correlations in a laser-excited, two-dimensional atomic Mott insulator. The
observations reveal the emergence of spatially ordered excitation patterns with
random orientation, but well-defined geometry, in the high-density components of 
the prepared many-body state. Together with a time-resolved analysis, this
supports the description of the system in terms of a correlated quantum state of 
collective excitations delocalized throughout the gas. Our experiment
demonstrates the potential of Rydberg gases to realize exotic phases of matter,
thereby laying the basis for quantum simulations of quantum magnets with
long-range interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11596 
PMID: 23128229 


189. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):83-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11561.

Dark material on Vesta from the infall of carbonaceous volatile-rich material.

McCord TB(1), Li JY, Combe JP, McSween HY, Jaumann R, Reddy V, Tosi F, Williams
DA, Blewett DT, Turrini D, Palomba E, Pieters CM, De Sanctis MC, Ammannito E,
Capria MT, Le Corre L, Longobardo A, Nathues A, Mittlefehldt DW, Schröder SE,
Hiesinger H, Beck AW, Capaccioni F, Carsenty U, Keller HU, Denevi BW, Sunshine
JM, Raymond CA, Russell CT.

Author information: 
(1)Bear Fight Institute, 22 Fiddler's Road, Box 667, Winthrop, Washington 98862, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):45-6.

Localized dark and bright materials, often with extremely different albedos, were
recently found on Vesta's surface. The range of albedos is among the largest
observed on Solar System rocky bodies. These dark materials, often associated
with craters, appear in ejecta and crater walls, and their pyroxene absorption
strengths are correlated with material brightness. It was tentatively suggested
that the dark material on Vesta could be either exogenic, from carbon-rich,
low-velocity impactors, or endogenic, from freshly exposed mafic material or
impact melt, created or exposed by impacts. Here we report Vesta spectra and
images and use them to derive and interpret the properties of the 'pure' dark and
bright materials. We argue that the dark material is mainly from infall of
hydrated carbonaceous material (like that found in a major class of meteorites
and some comet surfaces), whereas the bright material is the uncontaminated
indigenous Vesta basaltic soil. Dark material from low-albedo impactors is
diffused over time through the Vestan regolith by impact mixing, creating
broader, diffuse darker regions and finally Vesta's background surface material. 
This is consistent with howardite-eucrite-diogenite meteorites coming from Vesta.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11561 
PMID: 23128228 


190. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature11534.

Distinctive space weathering on Vesta from regolith mixing processes.

Pieters CM(1), Ammannito E, Blewett DT, Denevi BW, De Sanctis MC, Gaffey MJ, Le
Corre L, Li JY, Marchi S, McCord TB, McFadden LA, Mittlefehldt DW, Nathues A,
Palmer E, Reddy V, Raymond CA, Russell CT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geological Sciences, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 
02912, USA. carle_pieters@brown.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):45-6.

The surface of the asteroid Vesta has prominent near-infrared absorption bands
characteristic of a range of pyroxenes, confirming a direct link to the basaltic 
howardite-eucrite-diogenite class of meteorites. Processes active in the space
environment produce 'space weathering' products that substantially weaken or mask
such diagnostic absorption on airless bodies observed elsewhere, and it has long 
been a mystery why Vesta's absorption bands are so strong. Analyses of soil
samples from both the Moon and the asteroid Itokawa determined that nanophase
metallic particles (commonly nanophase iron) accumulate on the rims of regolith
grains with time, accounting for an observed optical degradation. These nanophase
particles, believed to be related to solar wind and micrometeoroid bombardment
processes, leave unique spectroscopic signatures that can be measured remotely
but require sufficient spatial resolution to discern the geologic context and
history of the surface, which has not been achieved for Vesta until now. Here we 
report that Vesta shows its own form of space weathering, which is quite
different from that of other airless bodies visited. No evidence is detected on
Vesta for accumulation of lunar-like nanophase iron on regolith particles, even
though distinct material exposed at several fresh craters becomes gradually
masked and fades into the background as the craters age. Instead, spectroscopic
data reveal that on Vesta a locally homogenized upper regolith is generated with 
time through small-scale mixing of diverse surface components.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11534 
PMID: 23128227 


191. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):56-65. doi: 10.1038/nature11632.

An integrated map of genetic variation from 1,092 human genomes.

1000 Genomes Project Consortium, Abecasis GR, Auton A, Brooks LD, DePristo MA,
Durbin RM, Handsaker RE, Kang HM, Marth GT, McVean GA.

Collaborators: Altshuler DM, Durbin RM, Abecasis GR, Bentley DR, Chakravarti A,
Clark AG, Donnelly P, Eichler EE, Flicek P, Gabriel SB, Gibbs RA, Green ED,
Hurles ME, Knoppers BM, Korbel JO, Lander ES, Lee C, Lehrach H, Mardis ER, Marth 
GT, McVean GA, Nickerson DA, Schmidt JP, Sherry ST, Wang J, Wilson RK, Gibbs RA, 
Dinh H, Kovar C, Lee S, Lewis L, Muzny D, Reid J, Wang M, Wang J, Fang X, Guo X, 
Jian M, Jiang H, Jin X, Li G, Li J, Li Y, Li Z, Liu X, Lu Y, Ma X, Su Z, Tai S,
Tang M, Wang B, Wang G, Wu H, Wu R, Yin Y, Zhang W, Zhao J, Zhao M, Zheng X, Zhou
Y, Lander ES, Altshuler DM, Gabriel SB, Gupta N, Flicek P, Clarke L, Leinonen R, 
Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X, Bentley DR, Grocock R, Humphray S, James T, Kingsbury 
Z, Lehrach H, Sudbrak R, Albrecht MW, Amstislavskiy VS, Borodina TA, Lienhard M, 
Mertes F, Sultan M, Timmermann B, Yaspo ML, Sherry ST, McVean GA, Mardis ER,
Wilson RK, Fulton L, Fulton R, Weinstock GM, Durbin RM, Balasubramaniam S, Burton
J, Danecek P, Keane TM, Kolb-Kokocinski A, McCarthy S, Stalker J, Quail M,
Schmidt JP, Davies CJ, Gollub J, Webster T, Wong B, Zhan Y, Auton A, Gibbs RA, Yu
F, Bainbridge M, Challis D, Evani US, Lu J, Muzny D, Nagaswamy U, Reid J, Sabo A,
Wang Y, Yu J, Wang J, Coin LJ, Fang L, Guo X, Jin X, Li G, Li Q, Li Y, Li Z, Lin 
H, Liu B, Luo R, Qin N, Shao H, Wang B, Xie Y, Ye C, Yu C, Zhang F, Zheng H, Zhu 
H, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Kural D, Lee WP, Leong WF, Ward AN, Wu J, Zhang M, Lee 
C, Griffin L, Hsieh CH, Mills RE, Shi X, von Grotthuss M, Zhang C, Daly MJ,
DePristo MA, Altshuler DM, Banks E, Bhatia G, Carneiro MO, del Angel G, Gabriel
SB, Genovese G, Gupta N, Handsaker RE, Hartl C, Lander ES, McCarroll SA, Nemesh
JC, Poplin RE, Schaffner SF, Shakir K, Yoon SC, Lihm J, Makarov V, Jin H, Kim W, 
Kim KC, Korbel JO, Rausch T, Flicek P, Beal K, Clarke L, Cunningham F, Herrero J,
McLaren WM, Ritchie GR, Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X, Clark AG, Gottipati S, Keinan 
A, Rodriguez-Flores JL, Sabeti PC, Grossman SR, Tabrizi S, Tariyal R, Cooper DN, 
Ball EV, Stenson PD, Bentley DR, Barnes B, Bauer M, Cheetham R, Cox T, Eberle M, 
Humphray S, Kahn S, Murray L, Peden J, Shaw R, Ye K, Batzer MA, Konkel MK, Walker
JA, MacArthur DG, Lek M, Sudbrak R, Amstislavskiy VS, Herwig R, Shriver MD,
Bustamante CD, Byrnes JK, De La Vega FM, Gravel S, Kenny EE, Kidd JM, Lacroute P,
Maples BK, Moreno-Estrada A, Zakharia F, Halperin E, Baran Y, Craig DW,
Christoforides A, Homer N, Izatt T, Kurdoglu AA, Sinari SA, Squire K, Sherry ST, 
Xiao C, Sebat J, Bafna V, Ye K, Burchard EG, Hernandez RD, Gignoux CR, Haussler
D, Katzman SJ, Kent WJ, Howie B, Ruiz-Linares A, Dermitzakis ET, Lappalainen T,
Devine SE, Liu X, Maroo A, Tallon LJ, Rosenfeld JA, Michelson LP, Abecasis GR,
Kang HM, Anderson P, Angius A, Bigham A, Blackwell T, Busonero F, Cucca F,
Fuchsberger C, Jones C, Jun G, Li Y, Lyons R, Maschio A, Porcu E, Reinier F,
Sanna S, Schlessinger D, Sidore C, Tan A, Trost MK, Awadalla P, Hodgkinson A,
Lunter G, McVean GA, Marchini JL, Myers S, Churchhouse C, Delaneau O, Gupta-Hinch
A, Iqbal Z, Mathieson I, Rimmer A, Xifara DK, Oleksyk TK, Fu Y, Liu X, Xiong M,
Jorde L, Witherspoon D, Xing J, Eichler EE, Browning BL, Alkan C, Hajirasouliha
I, Hormozdiari F, Ko A, Sudmant PH, Mardis ER, Chen K, Chinwalla A, Ding L,
Dooling D, Koboldt DC, McLellan MD, Wallis JW, Wendl MC, Zhang Q, Durbin RM,
Hurles ME, Tyler-Smith C, Albers CA, Ayub Q, Balasubramaniam S, Chen Y, Coffey
AJ, Colonna V, Danecek P, Huang N, Jostins L, Keane TM, Li H, McCarthy S, Scally 
A, Stalker J, Walter K, Xue Y, Zhang Y, Gerstein MB, Abyzov A, Balasubramanian S,
Chen J, Clarke D, Fu Y, Habegger L, Harmanci AO, Jin M, Khurana E, Mu XJ, Sisu C,
Li Y, Luo R, Zhu H, Lee C, Griffin L, Hsieh CH, Mills RE, Shi X, von Grotthuss M,
Zhang C, Marth GT, Garrison EP, Kural D, Lee WP, Ward AN, Wu J, Zhang M,
McCarroll SA, Altshuler DM, Banks E, del Angel G, Genovese G, Handsaker RE, Hartl
C, Nemesh JC, Shakir K, Yoon SC, Lihm J, Makarov V, Degenhardt J, Flicek P,
Clarke L, Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X, Korbel JO, Rausch T, Stütz AM, Bentley DR,
Barnes B, Cheetham R, Eberle M, Humphray S, Kahn S, Murray L, Shaw R, Ye K,
Batzer MA, Konkel MK, Walker JA, Lacroute P, Craig DW, Homer N, Church D, Xiao C,
Sebat J, Bafna V, Michaelson JJ, Ye K, Devine SE, Liu X, Maroo A, Tallon LJ,
Lunter G, Iqbal Z, Witherspoon D, Xing J, Eichler EE, Alkan C, Hajirasouliha I,
Hormozdiari F, Ko A, Sudmant PH, Chen K, Chinwalla A, Ding L, McLellan MD, Wallis
JW, Hurles ME, Blackburne B, Li H, Lindsay SJ, Ning Z, Scally A, Walter K, Zhang 
Y, Gerstein MB, Abyzov A, Chen J, Clarke D, Khurana E, Mu XJ, Sisu C, Gibbs RA,
Yu F, Bainbridge M, Challis D, Evani US, Kovar C, Lewis L, Lu J, Muzny D,
Nagaswamy U, Reid J, Sabo A, Yu J, Guo X, Li Y, Wu R, Marth GT, Garrison EP,
Leong WF, Ward AN, del Angel G, DePristo MA, Gabriel SB, Gupta N, Hartl C, Poplin
RE, Clark AG, Rodriguez-Flores JL, Flicek P, Clarke L, Smith RE, Zheng-Bradley X,
MacArthur DG, Bustamante CD, Gravel S, Craig DW, Christoforides A, Homer N, Izatt
T, Sherry ST, Xiao C, Dermitzakis ET, Abecasis GR, Kang HM, McVean GA, Mardis ER,
Dooling D, Fulton L, Fulton R, Koboldt DC, Durbin RM, Balasubramaniam S, Keane
TM, McCarthy S, Stalker J, Gerstein MB, Balasubramanian S, Habegger L, Garrison
EP, Gibbs RA, Bainbridge M, Muzny D, Yu F, Yu J, del Angel G, Handsaker RE,
Makarov V, Rodriguez-Flores JL, Jin H, Kim W, Kim KC, Flicek P, Beal K, Clarke L,
Cunningham F, Herrero J, McLaren WM, Ritchie GR, Zheng-Bradley X, Tabrizi S,
MacArthur DG, Lek M, Bustamante CD, De La Vega FM, Craig DW, Kurdoglu AA,
Lappalainen T, Rosenfeld JA, Michelson LP, Awadalla P, Hodgkinson A, McVean GA,
Chen K, Tyler-Smith C, Chen Y, Colonna V, Frankish A, Harrow J, Xue Y, Gerstein
MB, Abyzov A, Balasubramanian S, Chen J, Clarke D, Fu Y, Harmanci AO, Jin M,
Khurana E, Mu XJ, Sisu C, Gibbs RA, Fowler G, Hale W, Kalra D, Kovar C, Muzny D, 
Reid J, Wang J, Guo X, Li G, Li Y, Zheng X, Altshuler DM, Flicek P, Clarke L,
Barker J, Kelman G, Kulesha E, Leinonen R, McLaren WM, Radhakrishnan R, Roa A,
Smirnov D, Smith RE, Streeter I, Toneva I, Vaughan B, Zheng-Bradley X, Bentley
DR, Cox T, Humphray S, Kahn S, Sudbrak R, Albrecht MW, Lienhard M, Craig DW,
Izatt T, Kurdoglu AA, Sherry ST, Ananiev V, Belaia Z, Beloslyudtsev D, Bouk N,
Chen C, Church D, Cohen R, Cook C, Garner J, Hefferon T, Kimelman M, Liu C, Lopez
J, Meric P, O'Sullivan C, Ostapchuk Y, Phan L, Ponomarov S, Schneider V,
Shekhtman E, Sirotkin K, Slotta D, Xiao C, Zhang H, Haussler D, Abecasis GR,
McVean GA, Alkan C, Ko A, Dooling D, Durbin RM, Balasubramaniam S, Keane TM,
McCarthy S, Stalker J, Chakravarti A, Knoppers BM, Abecasis GR, Barnes KC,
Beiswanger C, Burchard EG, Bustamante CD, Cai H, Cao H, Durbin RM, Gharani N,
Gibbs RA, Gignoux CR, Gravel S, Henn B, Jones D, Jorde L, Kaye JS, Keinan A, Kent
A, Kerasidou A, Li Y, Mathias R, McVean GA, Moreno-Estrada A, Ossorio PN, Parker 
M, Reich D, Rotimi CN, Royal CD, Sandoval K, Su Y, Sudbrak R, Tian Z, Timmermann 
B, Tishkoff S, Toji LH, Tyler-Smith C, Via M, Wang Y, Yang H, Yang L, Zhu J,
Bodmer W, Bedoya G, Ruiz-Linares A, Ming CZ, Yang G, You CJ, Peltonen L,
Garcia-Montero A, Orfao A, Dutil J, Martinez-Cruzado JC, Oleksyk TK, Brooks LD,
Felsenfeld AL, McEwen JE, Clemm NC, Duncanson A, Dunn M, Green ED, Guyer MS,
Peterson JL.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2012;13(12):182.

By characterizing the geographic and functional spectrum of human genetic
variation, the 1000 Genomes Project aims to build a resource to help to
understand the genetic contribution to disease. Here we describe the genomes of
1,092 individuals from 14 populations, constructed using a combination of
low-coverage whole-genome and exome sequencing. By developing methods to
integrate information across several algorithms and diverse data sources, we
provide a validated haplotype map of 38 million single nucleotide polymorphisms, 
1.4 million short insertions and deletions, and more than 14,000 larger
deletions. We show that individuals from different populations carry different
profiles of rare and common variants, and that low-frequency variants show
substantial geographic differentiation, which is further increased by the action 
of purifying selection. We show that evolutionary conservation and coding
consequence are key determinants of the strength of purifying selection, that
rare-variant load varies substantially across biological pathways, and that each 
individual contains hundreds of rare non-coding variants at conserved sites, such
as motif-disrupting changes in transcription-factor-binding sites. This resource,
which captures up to 98% of accessible single nucleotide polymorphisms at a
frequency of 1% in related populations, enables analysis of common and
low-frequency variants in individuals from diverse, including admixed,
populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11632 
PMCID: PMC3498066
PMID: 23128226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):51-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11564.

Colloids with valence and specific directional bonding.

Wang Y(1), Wang Y, Breed DR, Manoharan VN, Feng L, Hollingsworth AD, Weck M, Pine
DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Design Institute and Department of Chemistry, New York University,
New York, New York 10003, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):42-3.

The ability to design and assemble three-dimensional structures from colloidal
particles is limited by the absence of specific directional bonds. As a result,
complex or low-coordination structures, common in atomic and molecular systems,
are rare in the colloidal domain. Here we demonstrate a general method for
creating the colloidal analogues of atoms with valence: colloidal particles with 
chemically distinct surface patches that imitate hybridized atomic orbitals,
including sp, sp(2), sp(3), sp(3)d, sp(3)d(2) and sp(3)d(3). Functionalized with 
DNA with single-stranded sticky ends, patches on different particles can form
highly directional bonds through programmable, specific and reversible DNA
hybridization. These features allow the particles to self-assemble into
'colloidal molecules' with triangular, tetrahedral and other bonding symmetries, 
and should also give access to a rich variety of new microstructured colloidal
materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11564 
PMID: 23128225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11585. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

Combined pesticide exposure severely affects individual- and colony-level traits 
in bees.

Gill RJ(1), Ramos-Rodriguez O, Raine NE.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham,
Surrey, TW20 0EX, UK. richard.gill@rhul.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):43-5.

Reported widespread declines of wild and managed insect pollinators have serious 
consequences for global ecosystem services and agricultural production. Bees
contribute approximately 80% of insect pollination, so it is important to
understand and mitigate the causes of current declines in bee populations .
Recent studies have implicated the role of pesticides in these declines, as
exposure to these chemicals has been associated with changes in bee behaviour and
reductions in colony queen production. However, the key link between changes in
individual behaviour and the consequent impact at the colony level has not been
shown. Social bee colonies depend on the collective performance of many
individual workers. Thus, although field-level pesticide concentrations can have 
subtle or sublethal effects at the individual level, it is not known whether bee 
societies can buffer such effects or whether it results in a severe cumulative
effect at the colony level. Furthermore, widespread agricultural intensification 
means that bees are exposed to numerous pesticides when foraging, yet the
possible combinatorial effects of pesticide exposure have rarely been
investigated. Here we show that chronic exposure of bumblebees to two pesticides 
(neonicotinoid and pyrethroid) at concentrations that could approximate
field-level exposure impairs natural foraging behaviour and increases worker
mortality leading to significant reductions in brood development and colony
success. We found that worker foraging performance, particularly pollen
collecting efficiency, was significantly reduced with observed knock-on effects
for forager recruitment, worker losses and overall worker productivity. Moreover,
we provide evidence that combinatorial exposure to pesticides increases the
propensity of colonies to fail.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11585 
PMCID: PMC3495159
PMID: 23086150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):72-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11549. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

Spontaneous network formation among cooperative RNA replicators.

Vaidya N(1), Manapat ML, Chen IA, Xulvi-Brunet R, Hayden EJ, Lehman N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Portland State University, PO Box 751, Portland,
Oregon 97207, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):48-9.

The origins of life on Earth required the establishment of self-replicating
chemical systems capable of maintaining and evolving biological information. In
an RNA world, single self-replicating RNAs would have faced the extreme challenge
of possessing a mutation rate low enough both to sustain their own information
and to compete successfully against molecular parasites with limited
evolvability. Thus theoretical analyses suggest that networks of interacting
molecules were more likely to develop and sustain life-like behaviour. Here we
show that mixtures of RNA fragments that self-assemble into self-replicating
ribozymes spontaneously form cooperative catalytic cycles and networks. We find
that a specific three-membered network has highly cooperative growth dynamics.
When such cooperative networks are competed directly against selfish
autocatalytic cycles, the former grow faster, indicating an intrinsic ability of 
RNA populations to evolve greater complexity through cooperation. We can observe 
the evolvability of networks through in vitro selection. Our experiments
highlight the advantages of cooperative behaviour even at the molecular stages of
nascent life.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11549 
PMID: 23075853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):66-71. doi: 10.1038/nature11525. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

Generation of functional thyroid from embryonic stem cells.

Antonica F(1), Kasprzyk DF, Opitz R, Iacovino M, Liao XH, Dumitrescu AM, Refetoff
S, Peremans K, Manto M, Kyba M, Costagliola S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Interdisciplinary Research in Molecular Human Biology (IRIBHM),
Université Libre de Bruxelles, 808 route de Lennik, 1070 Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2012 Dec;8(12):693.

The primary function of the thyroid gland is to metabolize iodide by synthesizing
thyroid hormones, which are critical regulators of growth, development and
metabolism in almost all tissues. So far, research on thyroid morphogenesis has
been missing an efficient stem-cell model system that allows for the in vitro
recapitulation of the molecular and morphogenic events regulating thyroid
follicular-cell differentiation and subsequent assembly into functional thyroid
follicles. Here we report that a transient overexpression of the transcription
factors NKX2-1 and PAX8 is sufficient to direct mouse embryonic stem-cell
differentiation into thyroid follicular cells that organize into
three-dimensional follicular structures when treated with thyrotropin. These in
vitro-derived follicles showed appreciable iodide organification activity.
Importantly, when grafted in vivo into athyroid mice, these follicles rescued
thyroid hormone plasma levels and promoted subsequent symptomatic recovery. Thus,
mouse embryonic stem cells can be induced to differentiate into thyroid
follicular cells in vitro and generate functional thyroid tissue.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11525 
PMCID: PMC3687105
PMID: 23051751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):138-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11500. Epub 2012 Oct 7.

The spatial architecture of protein function and adaptation.

McLaughlin RN Jr(1), Poelwijk FJ, Raman A, Gosal WS, Ranganathan R.

Author information: 
(1)Green Center for Systems Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390-9050, USA.

Statistical analysis of protein evolution suggests a design for natural proteins 
in which sparse networks of coevolving amino acids (termed sectors) comprise the 
essence of three-dimensional structure and function. However, proteins are also
subject to pressures deriving from the dynamics of the evolutionary process
itself--the ability to tolerate mutation and to be adaptive to changing selection
pressures. To understand the relationship of the sector architecture to these
properties, we developed a high-throughput quantitative method for a
comprehensive single-mutation study in which every position is substituted
individually to every other amino acid. Using a PDZ domain (PSD95(pdz3)) model
system, we show that sector positions are functionally sensitive to mutation,
whereas non-sector positions are more tolerant to substitution. In addition, we
find that adaptation to a new binding specificity initiates exclusively through
variation within sector residues. A combination of just two sector mutations
located near and away from the ligand-binding site suffices to switch the binding
specificity of PSD95(pdz3) quantitatively towards a class-switching ligand. The
localization of functional constraint and adaptive variation within the sector
has important implications for understanding and engineering proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11500 
PMCID: PMC3991786
PMID: 23041932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11523. Epub 2012 Oct 7.

Intrinsically determined cell death of developing cortical interneurons.

Southwell DG(1), Paredes MF, Galvao RP, Jones DL, Froemke RC, Sebe JY,
Alfaro-Cervello C, Tang Y, Garcia-Verdugo JM, Rubenstein JL, Baraban SC,
Alvarez-Buylla A.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California, San Francisco,
California 94143, USA. dereksouthwell@gmail.com

Cortical inhibitory circuits are formed by γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-secreting
interneurons, a cell population that originates far from the cerebral cortex in
the embryonic ventral forebrain. Given their distant developmental origins, it is
intriguing how the number of cortical interneurons is ultimately determined. One 
possibility, suggested by the neurotrophic hypothesis, is that cortical
interneurons are overproduced, and then after their migration into cortex the
excess interneurons are eliminated through a competition for extrinsically
derived trophic signals. Here we characterize the developmental cell death of
mouse cortical interneurons in vivo, in vitro and after transplantation. We found
that 40% of developing cortical interneurons were eliminated through Bax
(Bcl-2-associated X)-dependent apoptosis during postnatal life. When cultured in 
vitro or transplanted into the cortex, interneuron precursors died at a cellular 
age similar to that at which endogenous interneurons died during normal
development. Over transplant sizes that varied 200-fold, a constant fraction of
the transplanted population underwent cell death. The death of transplanted
neurons was not affected by the cell-autonomous disruption of TrkB (tropomyosin
kinase receptor B), the main neurotrophin receptor expressed by neurons of the
central nervous system. Transplantation expanded the cortical interneuron
population by up to 35%, but the frequency of inhibitory synaptic events did not 
scale with the number of transplanted interneurons. Taken together, our findings 
indicate that interneuron cell death is determined intrinsically, either
cell-autonomously or through a population-autonomous competition for survival
signals derived from other interneurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11523 
PMCID: PMC3726009
PMID: 23041929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):134-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11517. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

The molecular basis of phosphate discrimination in arsenate-rich environments.

Elias M(1), Wellner A, Goldin-Azulay K, Chabriere E, Vorholt JA, Erb TJ, Tawfik
DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel. mikael.elias@weizmann.ac.il

Arsenate and phosphate are abundant on Earth and have striking similarities:
nearly identical pK(a) values, similarly charged oxygen atoms, and thermochemical
radii that differ by only 4% (ref. 3). Phosphate is indispensable and arsenate is
toxic, but this extensive similarity raises the question whether arsenate may
substitute for phosphate in certain niches. However, whether it is used or
excluded, discriminating phosphate from arsenate is a paramount challenge.
Enzymes that utilize phosphate, for example, have the same binding mode and
kinetic parameters as arsenate, and the latter's presence therefore decouples
metabolism. Can proteins discriminate between these two anions, and how would
they do so? In particular, cellular phosphate uptake systems face a challenge in 
arsenate-rich environments. Here we describe a molecular mechanism for this
process. We examined the periplasmic phosphate-binding proteins (PBPs) of the
ABC-type transport system that mediates phosphate uptake into bacterial cells,
including two PBPs from the arsenate-rich Mono Lake Halomonas strain GFAJ-1. All 
PBPs tested are capable of discriminating phosphate over arsenate at least
500-fold. The exception is one of the PBPs of GFAJ-1 that shows roughly
4,500-fold discrimination and its gene is highly expressed under
phosphate-limiting conditions. Sub-ångström-resolution structures of Pseudomonas 
fluorescens PBP with both arsenate and phosphate show a unique mode of binding
that mediates discrimination. An extensive network of dipole-anion interactions, 
and of repulsive interactions, results in the 4% larger arsenate distorting a
unique low-barrier hydrogen bond. These features enable the phosphate transport
system to bind phosphate selectively over arsenate (at least 10(3) excess) even
in highly arsenate-rich environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11517 
PMID: 23034649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):129-33. doi: 10.1038/nature11443. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Vaccine-induced CD8+ T cells control AIDS virus replication.

Mudd PA(1), Martins MA, Ericsen AJ, Tully DC, Power KA, Bean AT, Piaskowski SM,
Duan L, Seese A, Gladden AD, Weisgrau KL, Furlott JR, Kim YI, Veloso de Santana
MG, Rakasz E, Capuano S 3rd, Wilson NA, Bonaldo MC, Galler R, Allison DB, Piatak 
M Jr, Haase AT, Lifson JD, Allen TM, Watkins DI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53711, USA.

Developing a vaccine for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may be aided by a
complete understanding of those rare cases in which some HIV-infected individuals
control replication of the virus. Most of these elite controllers express the
histocompatibility alleles HLA-B*57 or HLA-B*27 (ref. 3). These alleles remain by
far the most robust associations with low concentrations of plasma virus, yet the
mechanism of control in these individuals is not entirely clear. Here we
vaccinate Indian rhesus macaques that express Mamu-B*08, an animal model for
HLA-B*27-mediated elite control, with three Mamu-B*08-restricted CD8(+) T-cell
epitopes, and demonstrate that these vaccinated animals control replication of
the highly pathogenic clonal simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) mac239 virus.
High frequencies of CD8(+) T cells against these Vif and Nef epitopes in the
blood, lymph nodes and colon were associated with viral control. Moreover, the
frequency of the CD8(+) T-cell response against the Nef RL10 epitope (Nef amino
acids 137-146) correlated significantly with reduced acute phase viraemia.
Finally, two of the eight vaccinees lost control of viral replication in the
chronic phase, concomitant with escape in all three targeted epitopes, further
implicating these three CD8(+) T-cell responses in the control of viral
replication. Our findings indicate that narrowly targeted vaccine-induced
virus-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses can control replication of the AIDS virus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11443 
PMCID: PMC3883109
PMID: 23023123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):125-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11433. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Codon-usage-based inhibition of HIV protein synthesis by human schlafen 11.

Li M(1), Kao E, Gao X, Sandig H, Limmer K, Pavon-Eternod M, Jones TE, Landry S,
Pan T, Weitzman MD, David M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular Biology, Division of Biological Sciences, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Urol. 2012 Nov;9(11):605.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Nov;10(11):732.

In mammals, one of the most pronounced consequences of viral infection is the
induction of type I interferons, cytokines with potent antiviral activity.
Schlafen (Slfn) genes are a subset of interferon-stimulated early response genes 
(ISGs) that are also induced directly by pathogens via the interferon regulatory 
factor 3 (IRF3) pathway. However, many ISGs are of unknown or incompletely
understood function. Here we show that human SLFN11 potently and specifically
abrogates the production of retroviruses such as human immunodeficiency virus 1
(HIV-1). Our study revealed that SLFN11 has no effect on the early steps of the
retroviral infection cycle, including reverse transcription, integration and
transcription. Rather, SLFN11 acts at the late stage of virus production by
selectively inhibiting the expression of viral proteins in a
codon-usage-dependent manner. We further find that SLFN11 binds transfer RNA, and
counteracts changes in the tRNA pool elicited by the presence of HIV. Our studies
identified a novel antiviral mechanism within the innate immune response, in
which SLFN11 selectively inhibits viral protein synthesis in HIV-infected cells
by means of codon-bias discrimination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11433 
PMCID: PMC3705913
PMID: 23000900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 2012 Nov 1;491(7422):114-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11537. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

In vivo genome editing using a high-efficiency TALEN system.

Bedell VM(1), Wang Y, Campbell JM, Poshusta TL, Starker CG, Krug RG 2nd, Tan W,
Penheiter SG, Ma AC, Leung AY, Fahrenkrug SC, Carlson DF, Voytas DF, Clark KJ,
Essner JJ, Ekker SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota 55905, USA.

The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is increasingly being used to study basic vertebrate 
biology and human disease with a rich array of in vivo genetic and molecular
tools. However, the inability to readily modify the genome in a targeted fashion 
has been a bottleneck in the field. Here we show that improvements in artificial 
transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) provide a powerful new
approach for targeted zebrafish genome editing and functional genomic
applications. Using the GoldyTALEN modified scaffold and zebrafish delivery
system, we show that this enhanced TALEN toolkit has a high efficiency in
inducing locus-specific DNA breaks in somatic and germline tissues. At some loci,
this efficacy approaches 100%, including biallelic conversion in somatic tissues 
that mimics phenotypes seen using morpholino-based targeted gene knockdowns. With
this updated TALEN system, we successfully used single-stranded DNA
oligonucleotides to precisely modify sequences at predefined locations in the
zebrafish genome through homology-directed repair, including the introduction of 
a custom-designed EcoRV site and a modified loxP (mloxP) sequence into somatic
tissue in vivo. We further show successful germline transmission of both EcoRV
and mloxP engineered chromosomes. This combined approach offers the potential to 
model genetic variation as well as to generate targeted conditional alleles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11537 
PMCID: PMC3491146
PMID: 23000899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):527-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11528.

Recent changes to the Gulf Stream causing widespread gas hydrate destabilization.

Phrampus BJ(1), Hornbach MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Huffington Department of Earth Sciences, Southern Methodist University,
Dallas, Texas 75275, USA. bphrampus@mail.smu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):491-2.

The Gulf Stream is an ocean current that modulates climate in the Northern
Hemisphere by transporting warm waters from the Gulf of Mexico into the North
Atlantic and Arctic oceans. A changing Gulf Stream has the potential to thaw and 
convert hundreds of gigatonnes of frozen methane hydrate trapped below the sea
floor into methane gas, increasing the risk of slope failure and methane release.
How the Gulf Stream changes with time and what effect these changes have on
methane hydrate stability is unclear. Here, using seismic data combined with
thermal models, we show that recent changes in intermediate-depth ocean
temperature associated with the Gulf Stream are rapidly destabilizing methane
hydrate along a broad swathe of the North American margin. The area of active
hydrate destabilization covers at least 10,000 square kilometres of the United
States eastern margin, and occurs in a region prone to kilometre-scale slope
failures. Previous hypothetical studies postulated that an increase of five
degrees Celsius in intermediate-depth ocean temperatures could release enough
methane to explain extreme global warming events like the Palaeocene-Eocene
thermal maximum (PETM) and trigger widespread ocean acidification. Our analysis
suggests that changes in Gulf Stream flow or temperature within the past 5,000
years or so are warming the western North Atlantic margin by up to eight degrees 
Celsius and are now triggering the destabilization of 2.5 gigatonnes of methane
hydrate (about 0.2 per cent of that required to cause the PETM). This
destabilization extends along hundreds of kilometres of the margin and may
continue for centuries. It is unlikely that the western North Atlantic margin is 
the only area experiencing changing ocean currents; our estimate of 2.5
gigatonnes of destabilizing methane hydrate may therefore represent only a
fraction of the methane hydrate currently destabilizing globally. The transport
from ocean to atmosphere of any methane released--and thus its impact on
climate--remains uncertain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11528 
PMID: 23099408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):522-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11569.

Forming all-carbon quaternary stereogenic centres in acyclic systems from
alkynes.

Minko Y(1), Pasco M, Lercher L, Botoshansky M, Marek I.

Author information: 
(1)The Mallat Family Laboratory of Organic Chemistry, Schulich Faculty of
Chemistry, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000, Israel.

The formation of all-carbon quaternary stereocentres in acyclic systems is one of
the most difficult contemporary challenges in modern synthetic organic chemistry.
Particularly challenging is the preparation of all-carbon quaternary
stereocentres in aldol adducts; this difficulty is problematic because the aldol 
reaction represents one of the most valuable chemical transformations in organic 
synthesis. The main problem that limits the formation of these stereocentres is
the absence of an efficient method of preparing stereodefined trisubstituted
enolates in acyclic systems. Here we describe a different approach that involves 
the formation of two new stereogenic centres--including the all-carbon quaternary
one--via a combined carbometalation-oxidation reaction of an organocuprate to
give a stereodefined trisubstituted enolate. We use this method to generate a
series of aldol and Mannich products from ynamides with excellent diastereomeric 
and enantiomeric ratios and moderate yields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11569 
PMID: 23099407 


204. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):517-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11568.

Quasi-periodic events in crystal plasticity and the self-organized avalanche
oscillator.

Papanikolaou S(1), Dimiduk DM, Choi W, Sethna JP, Uchic MD, Woodward CF, Zapperi 
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8286, USA. stefanos.papanikolaou@yale.edu

When external stresses in a system--physical, social or virtual--are relieved
through impulsive events, it is natural to focus on the attributes of these
avalanches. However, during the quiescent periods between them, stresses may be
relieved through competing processes, such as slowly flowing water between
earthquakes or thermally activated dislocation flow between plastic bursts in
crystals. Such smooth responses can in turn have marked effects on the avalanche 
properties. Here we report an experimental investigation of slowly compressed
nickel microcrystals, covering three orders of magnitude in nominal strain rate, 
in which we observe unconventional quasi-periodic avalanche bursts and higher
critical exponents as the strain rate is decreased. Our experiments are
faithfully reproduced by analytic and computational dislocation avalanche
modelling that we have extended to incorporate dislocation relaxation, revealing 
the emergence of the self-organized avalanche oscillator: a novel critical state 
exhibiting oscillatory approaches towards a depinning critical point. This theory
suggests that whenever avalanches compete with slow relaxation--in settings
ranging from crystal microplasticity to earthquakes--dynamical quasi-periodic
scale invariance ought to emerge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11568 
PMID: 23099406 


205. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):514-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11474.

Near-infrared background anisotropies from diffuse intrahalo light of galaxies.

Cooray A(1), Smidt J, De Bernardis F, Gong Y, Stern D, Ashby ML, Eisenhardt PR,
Frazer CC, Gonzalez AH, Kochanek CS, Kozłowski S, Wright EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California, Irvine,
California 92697, USA. acooray@uci.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):494-5.

Unresolved anisotropies of the cosmic near-infrared background radiation are
expected to have contributions from the earliest galaxies during the epoch of
reionization and from faint, dwarf galaxies at intermediate redshifts. Previous
measurements were unable to pinpoint conclusively the dominant origin because
they did not sample spatial scales that were sufficiently large to distinguish
between these two possibilities. Here we report a measurement of the anisotropy
power spectrum from subarcminute to one-degree angular scales, and find the
clustering amplitude to be larger than predicted by the models based on the two
existing explanations. As the shot-noise level of the power spectrum is
consistent with that expected from faint galaxies, a new source population on the
sky is not necessary to explain the observations. However, a physical mechanism
that increases the clustering amplitude is needed. Motivated by recent results
related to the extended stellar light profile in dark-matter haloes, we consider 
the possibility that the fluctuations originate from intrahalo stars of all
galaxies. We find that the measured power spectrum can be explained by an
intrahalo light fraction of 0.07 to 0.2 per cent relative to the total luminosity
in dark-matter haloes of 10(9) to 10(12) solar masses at redshifts of about 1 to 
4.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11474 
PMID: 23099405 


206. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):535-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11510. Epub 2012 Oct 14.

Epistasis as the primary factor in molecular evolution.

Breen MS(1), Kemena C, Vlasov PK, Notredame C, Kondrashov FA.

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics and Genomics Programme, Centre for Genomic Regulation and
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 88 Dr Aiguader, Barcelona 08003, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 May 30;497(7451):E1-2; discussion E2-3.
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):493-4.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Dec;13(12):828.

The main forces directing long-term molecular evolution remain obscure. A sizable
fraction of amino-acid substitutions seem to be fixed by positive selection, but 
it is unclear to what degree long-term protein evolution is constrained by
epistasis, that is, instances when substitutions that are accepted in one
genotype are deleterious in another. Here we obtain a quantitative estimate of
the prevalence of epistasis in long-term protein evolution by relating data on
amino-acid usage in 14 organelle proteins and 2 nuclear-encoded proteins to their
rates of short-term evolution. We studied multiple alignments of at least 1,000
orthologues for each of these 16 proteins from species from a diverse
phylogenetic background and found that an average site contained approximately
eight different amino acids. Thus, without epistasis an average site should
accept two-fifths of all possible amino acids, and the average rate of amino-acid
substitutions should therefore be about three-fifths lower than the rate of
neutral evolution. However, we found that the measured rate of amino-acid
substitution in recent evolution is 20 times lower than the rate of neutral
evolution and an order of magnitude lower than that expected in the absence of
epistasis. These data indicate that epistasis is pervasive throughout protein
evolution: about 90 per cent of all amino-acid substitutions have a neutral or
beneficial impact only in the genetic backgrounds in which they occur, and must
therefore be deleterious in a different background of other species. Our findings
show that most amino-acid substitutions have different fitness effects in
different species and that epistasis provides the primary conceptual framework to
describe the tempo and mode of long-term protein evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11510 
PMID: 23064225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):531-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11506. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

The origin of the terrestrial noble-gas signature.

Shcheka SS(1), Keppler H.

Author information: 
(1)Bayerisches Geoinstitut, Universität Bayreuth, 95440 Bayreuth, Germany.
svyatoslav.shcheka@uni-bayreuth.de

In the atmospheres of Earth and Mars, xenon is strongly depleted relative to
argon, when compared to the abundances in chondritic meteorites. The origin of
this depletion is poorly understood. Here we show that more than one weight per
cent of argon may be dissolved in MgSiO(3) perovskite, the most abundant phase of
Earth's lower mantle, whereas the xenon solubility in MgSiO(3) perovskite is
orders of magnitude lower. We therefore suggest that crystallization of
perovskite from a magma ocean in the very early stages of Earth's history
concentrated argon in the lower mantle. After most of the primordial atmosphere
had been lost, degassing of the lower mantle replenished argon and krypton, but
not xenon, in the atmosphere. Our model implies that the depletion of xenon
relative to argon indicates that perovskite crystallized from a magma ocean in
the early history of Earth and perhaps also Mars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11506 
PMID: 23051754 


208. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):508-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11558. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

Structure of the agonist-bound neurotensin receptor.

White JF(1), Noinaj N, Shibata Y, Love J, Kloss B, Xu F, Gvozdenovic-Jeremic J,
Shah P, Shiloach J, Tate CG, Grisshammer R.

Author information: 
(1)Membrane Protein Structure Function Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and
Human Services, Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):492-3.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Nov;11(11):832.

Neurotensin (NTS) is a 13-amino-acid peptide that functions as both a
neurotransmitter and a hormone through the activation of the neurotensin receptor
NTSR1, a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR). In the brain, NTS modulates the
activity of dopaminergic systems, opioid-independent analgesia, and the
inhibition of food intake; in the gut, NTS regulates a range of digestive
processes. Here we present the structure at 2.8 Å resolution of Rattus norvegicus
NTSR1 in an active-like state, bound to NTS(8-13), the carboxy-terminal portion
of NTS responsible for agonist-induced activation of the receptor. The peptide
agonist binds to NTSR1 in an extended conformation nearly perpendicular to the
membrane plane, with the C terminus oriented towards the receptor core. Our
findings provide, to our knowledge, the first insight into the binding mode of a 
peptide agonist to a GPCR and may support the development of non-peptide ligands 
that could be useful in the treatment of neurological disorders, cancer and
obesity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11558 
PMCID: PMC3482300
PMID: 23051748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):552-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11494. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Black mamba venom peptides target acid-sensing ion channels to abolish pain.

Diochot S(1), Baron A, Salinas M, Douguet D, Scarzello S, Dabert-Gay AS, Debayle 
D, Friend V, Alloui A, Lazdunski M, Lingueglia E.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, UMR 7275, 06560
Valbonne, France.

Comment in
    Channels (Austin). 2013 Mar-Apr;7(2):69-70.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Dec;11(12):906-7.

Polypeptide toxins have played a central part in understanding physiological and 
physiopathological functions of ion channels. In the field of pain, they led to
important advances in basic research and even to clinical applications.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are generally considered principal players in
the pain pathway, including in humans. A snake toxin activating peripheral ASICs 
in nociceptive neurons has been recently shown to evoke pain. Here we show that a
new class of three-finger peptides from another snake, the black mamba, is able
to abolish pain through inhibition of ASICs expressed either in central or
peripheral neurons. These peptides, which we call mambalgins, are not toxic in
mice but show a potent analgesic effect upon central and peripheral injection
that can be as strong as morphine. This effect is, however, resistant to
naloxone, and mambalgins cause much less tolerance than morphine and no
respiratory distress. Pharmacological inhibition by mambalgins combined with the 
use of knockdown and knockout animals indicates that blockade of heteromeric
channels made of ASIC1a and ASIC2a subunits in central neurons and of
ASIC1b-containing channels in nociceptors is involved in the analgesic effect of 
mambalgins. These findings identify new potential therapeutic targets for pain
and introduce natural peptides that block them to produce a potent analgesia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11494 
PMID: 23034652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):497-501. doi: 10.1038/nature11532. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

A map of rice genome variation reveals the origin of cultivated rice.

Huang X(1), Kurata N, Wei X, Wang ZX, Wang A, Zhao Q, Zhao Y, Liu K, Lu H, Li W, 
Guo Y, Lu Y, Zhou C, Fan D, Weng Q, Zhu C, Huang T, Zhang L, Wang Y, Feng L,
Furuumi H, Kubo T, Miyabayashi T, Yuan X, Xu Q, Dong G, Zhan Q, Li C, Fujiyama A,
Toyoda A, Lu T, Feng Q, Qian Q, Li J, Han B.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Gene Research, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, 
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai 200233, China.

Crop domestications are long-term selection experiments that have greatly
advanced human civilization. The domestication of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa
L.) ranks as one of the most important developments in history. However, its
origins and domestication processes are controversial and have long been debated.
Here we generate genome sequences from 446 geographically diverse accessions of
the wild rice species Oryza rufipogon, the immediate ancestral progenitor of
cultivated rice, and from 1,083 cultivated indica and japonica varieties to
construct a comprehensive map of rice genome variation. In the search for
signatures of selection, we identify 55 selective sweeps that have occurred
during domestication. In-depth analyses of the domestication sweeps and
genome-wide patterns reveal that Oryza sativa japonica rice was first
domesticated from a specific population of O. rufipogon around the middle area of
the Pearl River in southern China, and that Oryza sativa indica rice was
subsequently developed from crosses between japonica rice and local wild rice as 
the initial cultivars spread into South East and South Asia. The
domestication-associated traits are analysed through high-resolution genetic
mapping. This study provides an important resource for rice breeding and an
effective genomics approach for crop domestication research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11532 
PMID: 23034647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11452. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Mitochondrial defect drives non-autonomous tumour progression through Hippo
signalling in Drosophila.

Ohsawa S(1), Sato Y, Enomoto M, Nakamura M, Betsumiya A, Igaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, 7-5-1
Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Nov;12(11):734.

Mitochondrial respiratory function is frequently impaired in human cancers.
However, the mechanisms by which mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to tumour 
progression remain elusive. Here we show in Drosophila imaginal epithelium that
defects in mitochondrial function potently induce tumour progression of
surrounding tissue in conjunction with oncogenic Ras. Our data show that Ras
activation and mitochondrial dysfunction cooperatively stimulate production of
reactive oxygen species, which causes activation of c-Jun amino (N)-terminal
kinase (JNK) signalling. JNK cooperates with oncogenic Ras to inactivate the
Hippo pathway, leading to upregulation of its targets Unpaired (an interleukin-6 
homologue) and Wingless (a Wnt homologue). Mitochondrial dysfunction in
Ras-activated cells further cooperates with Ras signalling in neighbouring cells 
with normal mitochondrial function, causing benign tumours to exhibit metastatic 
behaviour. Our findings provide a mechanistic basis for interclonal tumour
progression driven by mitochondrial dysfunction and oncogenic Ras.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11452 
PMID: 23023132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):556-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11503. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Structure-based prediction of protein-protein interactions on a genome-wide
scale.

Zhang QC(1), Petrey D, Deng L, Qiang L, Shi Y, Thu CA, Bisikirska B, Lefebvre C, 
Accili D, Hunter T, Maniatis T, Califano A, Honig B.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Mar 7;495(7439):127.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2012 Dec;9(12):1139.

The genome-wide identification of pairs of interacting proteins is an important
step in the elucidation of cell regulatory mechanisms. Much of our present
knowledge derives from high-throughput techniques such as the yeast two-hybrid
assay and affinity purification, as well as from manual curation of experiments
on individual systems. A variety of computational approaches based, for example, 
on sequence homology, gene co-expression and phylogenetic profiles, have also
been developed for the genome-wide inference of protein-protein interactions
(PPIs). Yet comparative studies suggest that the development of accurate and
complete repertoires of PPIs is still in its early stages. Here we show that
three-dimensional structural information can be used to predict PPIs with an
accuracy and coverage that are superior to predictions based on non-structural
evidence. Moreover, an algorithm, termed PrePPI, which combines structural
information with other functional clues, is comparable in accuracy to
high-throughput experiments, yielding over 30,000 high-confidence interactions
for yeast and over 300,000 for human. Experimental tests of a number of
predictions demonstrate the ability of the PrePPI algorithm to identify
unexpected PPIs of considerable biological interest. The surprising effectiveness
of three-dimensional structural information can be attributed to the use of
homology models combined with the exploitation of both close and remote geometric
relationships between proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11503 
PMCID: PMC3482288
PMID: 23023127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):561-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11496. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Clonal allelic predetermination of immunoglobulin-κ rearrangement.

Farago M(1), Rosenbluh C, Tevlin M, Fraenkel S, Schlesinger S, Masika H, Gouzman 
M, Teng G, Schatz D, Rais Y, Hanna JH, Mildner A, Jung S, Mostoslavsky G, Cedar
H, Bergman Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology and Cancer Research, Institute for Medical
Research Israel-Canada, Hebrew University Medical School, POB 12272, Ein Kerem,
Jerusalem 91120, Israel.

Although most genes are expressed biallelically, a number of key genomic
sites--including immune and olfactory receptor regions--are controlled
monoallelically in a stochastic manner, with some cells expressing the maternal
allele and others the paternal allele in the target tissue. Very little is known 
about how this phenomenon is regulated and programmed during development. Here,
using mouse immunoglobulin-κ (Igκ) as a model system, we demonstrate that
although individual haematopoietic stem cells are characterized by allelic
plasticity, early lymphoid lineage cells become committed to the choice of a
single allele, and this decision is then stably maintained in a clonal manner
that predetermines monoallelic rearrangement in B cells. This is accompanied at
the molecular level by underlying allelic changes in asynchronous replication
timing patterns at the κ locus. These experiments may serve to define a new
concept of stem cell plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11496 
PMID: 23023124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):566-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11448. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Crystal structure of the multidrug transporter P-glycoprotein from Caenorhabditis
elegans.

Jin MS(1), Oldham ML, Zhang Q, Chen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, Indiana 47907, USA.

P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is an ATP-binding cassette transporter that confers
multidrug resistance in cancer cells. It also affects the absorption,
distribution and clearance of cancer-unrelated drugs and xenobiotics. For these
reasons, the structure and function of P-gp have been studied extensively for
decades. Here we present biochemical characterization of P-gp from Caenorhabditis
elegans and its crystal structure at a resolution of 3.4 ångströms. We find that 
the apparent affinities of P-gp for anticancer drugs actinomycin D and paclitaxel
are approximately 4,000 and 100 times higher, respectively, in the membrane
bilayer than in detergent. This affinity enhancement highlights the importance of
membrane partitioning when a drug accesses the transporter in the membrane.
Furthermore, the transporter in the crystal structure opens its drug pathway at
the level of the membrane's inner leaflet. In the helices flanking the opening to
the membrane, we observe extended loops that may mediate drug binding, function
as hinges to gate the pathway or both. We also find that the interface between
the transmembrane and nucleotide-binding domains, which couples ATP hydrolysis to
transport, contains a ball-and-socket joint and salt bridges similar to the
ATP-binding cassette importers, suggesting that ATP-binding cassette exporters
and importers may use similar mechanisms to achieve alternating access for
transport. Finally, a model of human P-gp derived from the structure of C.
elegans P-gp not only is compatible with decades of biochemical analysis, but
also helps to explain perplexing functional data regarding the Phe335Ala mutant. 
These results increase our understanding of the structure and function of this
important molecule.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11448 
PMCID: PMC3482266
PMID: 23000902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):502-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11531. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

Compensatory dendritic cell development mediated by BATF-IRF interactions.

Tussiwand R(1), Lee WL, Murphy TL, Mashayekhi M, KC W, Albring JC, Satpathy AT,
Rotondo JA, Edelson BT, Kretzer NM, Wu X, Weiss LA, Glasmacher E, Li P, Liao W,
Behnke M, Lam SS, Aurthur CT, Leonard WJ, Singh H, Stallings CL, Sibley LD,
Schreiber RD, Murphy KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

The AP1 transcription factor Batf3 is required for homeostatic development of
CD8α(+) classical dendritic cells that prime CD8 T-cell responses against
intracellular pathogens. Here we identify an alternative, Batf3-independent
pathway in mice for CD8α(+) dendritic cell development operating during infection
with intracellular pathogens and mediated by the cytokines interleukin (IL)-12
and interferon-γ. This alternative pathway results from molecular compensation
for Batf3 provided by the related AP1 factors Batf, which also functions in T and
B cells, and Batf2 induced by cytokines in response to infection. Reciprocally,
physiological compensation between Batf and Batf3 also occurs in T cells for
expression of IL-10 and CTLA4. Compensation among BATF factors is based on the
shared capacity of their leucine zipper domains to interact with non-AP1 factors 
such as IRF4 and IRF8 to mediate cooperative gene activation. Conceivably,
manipulating this alternative pathway of dendritic cell development could be of
value in augmenting immune responses to vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11531 
PMCID: PMC3482832
PMID: 22992524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):543-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11530. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

BATF-JUN is critical for IRF4-mediated transcription in T cells.

Li P(1), Spolski R, Liao W, Wang L, Murphy TL, Murphy KM, Leonard WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology and Immunology Center, National Heart,
Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-1674, USA. lip3@nhlbi.nih.gov

Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is an IRF family transcription factor with 
critical roles in lymphoid development and in regulating the immune response.
IRF4 binds DNA weakly owing to a carboxy-terminal auto-inhibitory domain, but
cooperative binding with factors such as PU.1 or SPIB in B cells increases
binding affinity, allowing IRF4 to regulate genes containing ETS-IRF composite
elements (EICEs; 5'-GGAAnnGAAA-3'). Here we show that in mouse CD4(+) T cells,
where PU.1/SPIB expression is low, and in B cells, where PU.1 is well expressed, 
IRF4 unexpectedly can cooperate with activator protein-1 (AP1) complexes to bind 
to AP1-IRF4 composite (5'-TGAnTCA/GAAA-3') motifs that we denote as AP1-IRF
composite elements (AICEs). Moreover, BATF-JUN family protein complexes cooperate
with IRF4 in binding to AICEs in pre-activated CD4(+) T cells stimulated with
IL-21 and in T(H)17 differentiated cells. Importantly, BATF binding was
diminished in Irf4(-/-) T cells and IRF4 binding was diminished in Batf(-/-) T
cells, consistent with functional cooperation between these factors. Moreover, we
show that AP1 and IRF complexes cooperatively promote transcription of the Il10
gene, which is expressed in T(H)17 cells and potently regulated by IL-21. These
findings reveal that IRF4 can signal via complexes containing ETS or AP1 motifs
depending on the cellular context, thus indicating new approaches for modulating 
IRF4-dependent transcription.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11530 
PMCID: PMC3537508
PMID: 22992523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):539-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11429. Epub 2012 Aug 12.

Phosphorylation of NLRC4 is critical for inflammasome activation.

Qu Y(1), Misaghi S, Izrael-Tomasevic A, Newton K, Gilmour LL, Lamkanfi M, Louie
S, Kayagaki N, Liu J, Kömüves L, Cupp JE, Arnott D, Monack D, Dixit VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

NLRC4 is a cytosolic member of the NOD-like receptor family that is expressed in 
innate immune cells. It senses indirectly bacterial flagellin and type III
secretion systems, and responds by assembling an inflammasome complex that
promotes caspase-1 activation and pyroptosis. Here we use knock-in mice
expressing NLRC4 with a carboxy-terminal 3×Flag tag to identify phosphorylation
of NLRC4 on a single, evolutionarily conserved residue, Ser 533, following
infection of macrophages with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (also known
as Salmonella typhimurium). Western blotting with a NLRC4 phospho-Ser 533
antibody confirmed that this post-translational modification occurs only in the
presence of stimuli known to engage NLRC4 and not the related protein NLRP3 or
AIM2. Nlrc4(-/-) macrophages reconstituted with NLRC4 mutant S533A, unlike those 
reconstituted with wild-type NLRC4, did not activate caspase-1 and pyroptosis in 
response to S. typhimurium, indicating that S533 phosphorylation is critical for 
NLRC4 inflammasome function. Conversely, phosphomimetic NLRC4 S533D caused rapid 
macrophage pyroptosis without infection. Biochemical purification of the
NLRC4-phosphorylating activity and a screen of kinase inhibitors identified PRKCD
(PKCδ) as a candidate NLRC4 kinase. Recombinant PKCδ phosphorylated NLRC4 S533 in
vitro, immunodepletion of PKCδ from macrophage lysates blocked NLRC4 S533
phosphorylation in vitro, and Prkcd(-/-) macrophages exhibited greatly attenuated
caspase-1 activation and IL-1β secretion specifically in response to S.
typhimurium. Phosphorylation-defective NLRC4 S533A failed to recruit procaspase-1
and did not assemble inflammasome specks during S. typhimurium infection, so
phosphorylation of NLRC4 S533 probably drives conformational changes necessary
for NLRC4 inflammasome activity and host innate immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11429 
PMID: 22885697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):388-92. doi: 10.1038/nature11533.

Coastal eutrophication as a driver of salt marsh loss.

Deegan LA(1), Johnson DS, Warren RS, Peterson BJ, Fleeger JW, Fagherazzi S,
Wollheim WM.

Author information: 
(1)The Ecosystems Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, 7 MBL Street, Woods Hole,
Massachusetts 02543, USA. ldeegan@mbl.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):331-4.
    Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):352-3.

Salt marshes are highly productive coastal wetlands that provide important
ecosystem services such as storm protection for coastal cities, nutrient removal 
and carbon sequestration. Despite protective measures, however, worldwide losses 
of these ecosystems have accelerated in recent decades. Here we present data from
a nine-year whole-ecosystem nutrient-enrichment experiment. Our study
demonstrates that nutrient enrichment, a global problem for coastal ecosystems,
can be a driver of salt marsh loss. We show that nutrient levels commonly
associated with coastal eutrophication increased above-ground leaf biomass,
decreased the dense, below-ground biomass of bank-stabilizing roots, and
increased microbial decomposition of organic matter. Alterations in these key
ecosystem properties reduced geomorphic stability, resulting in creek-bank
collapse with significant areas of creek-bank marsh converted to unvegetated mud.
This pattern of marsh loss parallels observations for anthropogenically
nutrient-enriched marshes worldwide, with creek-edge and bay-edge marsh evolving 
into mudflats and wider creeks. Our work suggests that current nutrient loading
rates to many coastal ecosystems have overwhelmed the capacity of marshes to
remove nitrogen without deleterious effects. Projected increases in nitrogen flux
to the coast, related to increased fertilizer use required to feed an expanding
human population, may rapidly result in a coastal landscape with less marsh,
which would reduce the capacity of coastal regions to provide important
ecological and economic services.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11533 
PMID: 23075989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):380-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11559.

Circuit quantum electrodynamics with a spin qubit.

Petersson KD(1), McFaul LW, Schroer MD, Jung M, Taylor JM, Houck AA, Petta JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Electron spins trapped in quantum dots have been proposed as basic building
blocks of a future quantum processor. Although fast, 180-picosecond,
two-quantum-bit (two-qubit) operations can be realized using nearest-neighbour
exchange coupling, a scalable, spin-based quantum computing architecture will
almost certainly require long-range qubit interactions. Circuit quantum
electrodynamics (cQED) allows spatially separated superconducting qubits to
interact via a superconducting microwave cavity that acts as a 'quantum bus',
making possible two-qubit entanglement and the implementation of simple quantum
algorithms. Here we combine the cQED architecture with spin qubits by coupling an
indium arsenide nanowire double quantum dot to a superconducting cavity. The
architecture allows us to achieve a charge-cavity coupling rate of about
30 megahertz, consistent with coupling rates obtained in gallium arsenide quantum
dots. Furthermore, the strong spin-orbit interaction of indium arsenide allows us
to drive spin rotations electrically with a local gate electrode, and the
charge-cavity interaction provides a measurement of the resulting spin dynamics. 
Our results demonstrate how the cQED architecture can be used as a sensitive
probe of single-spin physics and that a spin-cavity coupling rate of about one
megahertz is feasible, presenting the possibility of long-range spin coupling via
superconducting microwave cavities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11559 
PMID: 23075988 


220. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11507.

Zinc isotopic evidence for the origin of the Moon.

Paniello RC(1), Day JM, Moynier F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences and McDonnell Center for Space
Sciences, Washington University, St Louis, Missouri 63130, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):346-7.

Volatile elements have a fundamental role in the evolution of planets. But how
budgets of volatiles were set in planets, and the nature and extent of
volatile-depletion of planetary bodies during the earliest stages of Solar System
formation remain poorly understood. The Moon is considered to be
volatile-depleted and so it has been predicted that volatile loss should have
fractionated stable isotopes of moderately volatile elements. One such element,
zinc, exhibits strong isotopic fractionation during volatilization in planetary
rocks, but is hardly fractionated during terrestrial igneous processes, making it
a powerful tracer of the volatile histories of planets. Here we present
high-precision zinc isotopic and abundance data which show that lunar magmatic
rocks are enriched in the heavy isotopes of zinc and have lower zinc
concentrations than terrestrial or Martian igneous rocks. Conversely, Earth and
Mars have broadly chondritic zinc isotopic compositions. We show that these
variations represent large-scale evaporation of zinc, most probably in the
aftermath of the Moon-forming event, rather than small-scale evaporation
processes during volcanism. Our results therefore represent evidence for volatile
depletion of the Moon through evaporation, and are consistent with a giant impact
origin for the Earth and Moon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11507 
PMID: 23075987 


221. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):373-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11473.

Hard-X-ray emission lines from the decay of 44Ti in the remnant of supernova
1987A.

Grebenev SA(1), Lutovinov AA, Tsygankov SS, Winkler C.

Author information: 
(1)Space Research Institute, RAS, Profsoyuznaya 84/32, 117997 Moscow, Russia.

It is assumed that the radioactive decay of (44)Ti powers the infrared, optical
and ultraviolet emission of supernova remnants after the complete decay of (56)Co
and (57)Co (the isotopes that dominated the energy balance during the first three
to four years after the explosion) until the beginning of active interaction of
the ejecta with the surrounding matter. Simulations show that the initial mass of
(44)Ti synthesized in core-collapse supernovae is (0.02-2.5) × 10(-4) solar
masses (M circled dot). Hard X-rays and γ-rays from the decay of this (44)Ti have
been unambiguously observed from Cassiopeia A only, leading to the suggestion
that values of the initial mass of (44)Ti near the upper bound of the predictions
occur only in exceptional cases. For the remnant of supernova 1987A, an upper
limit to the initial mass of (44)Ti of <10(-3) M circled dot has been obtained
from direct X-ray observations, and an estimate of (1-2) × 10(-4) M circled dot
has been made from infrared light curves and ultraviolet spectra by complex and
model-dependent computations. Here we report observations of hard X-rays from the
remnant of supernova 1987A in the narrow band containing two direct-escape lines 
of (44)Ti at 67.9 and 78.4 keV. The measured line fluxes imply that this decay
provided sufficient energy to power the remnant at late times. We estimate that
the initial mass of (44)Ti was (3.1 ± 0.8) × 10(-4), which is near the upper
bound of theoretical predictions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11473 
PMID: 23075986 


222. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):361-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11524.

Crystal structure of a bacterial homologue of glucose transporters GLUT1-4.

Sun L(1), Zeng X, Yan C, Sun X, Gong X, Rao Y, Yan N.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Center for
Structural Biology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):348-50.

Glucose transporters are essential for metabolism of glucose in cells of diverse 
organisms from microbes to humans, exemplified by the disease-related human
proteins GLUT1, 2, 3 and 4. Despite rigorous efforts, the structural information 
for GLUT1-4 or their homologues remains largely unknown. Here we report three
related crystal structures of XylE, an Escherichia coli homologue of GLUT1-4, in 
complex with d-xylose, d-glucose and 6-bromo-6-deoxy-D-glucose, at resolutions of
2.8, 2.9 and 2.6 Å, respectively. The structure consists of a typical major
facilitator superfamily fold of 12 transmembrane segments and a unique
intracellular four-helix domain. XylE was captured in an outward-facing, partly
occluded conformation. Most of the important amino acids responsible for
recognition of D-xylose or d-glucose are invariant in GLUT1-4, suggesting
functional and mechanistic conservations. Structure-based modelling of GLUT1-4
allows mapping and interpretation of disease-related mutations. The structural
and biochemical information reported here constitutes an important framework for 
mechanistic understanding of glucose transporters and sugar porters in general.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11524 
PMID: 23075985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):412-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11538. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

Melanomas resist T-cell therapy through inflammation-induced reversible
dedifferentiation.

Landsberg J(1), Kohlmeyer J, Renn M, Bald T, Rogava M, Cron M, Fatho M, Lennerz
V, Wölfel T, Hölzel M, Tüting T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Dermatology, Department of Dermatology and Allergy,
University of Bonn, D-53105 Bonn, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):347-8.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Dec;9(12):669.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Nov;12(11):738-9.

Adoptive cell transfer therapies (ACTs) with cytotoxic T cells that target
melanocytic antigens can achieve remissions in patients with metastatic
melanomas, but tumours frequently relapse. Hypotheses explaining the acquired
resistance to ACTs include the selection of antigen-deficient tumour cell
variants and the induction of T-cell tolerance. However, the lack of appropriate 
experimental melanoma models has so far impeded clear insights into the
underlying mechanisms. Here we establish an effective ACT protocol in a
genetically engineered mouse melanoma model that recapitulates tumour regression,
remission and relapse as seen in patients. We report the unexpected observation
that melanomas acquire ACT resistance through an inflammation-induced reversible 
loss of melanocytic antigens. In serial transplantation experiments, melanoma
cells switch between a differentiated and a dedifferentiated phenotype in
response to T-cell-driven inflammatory stimuli. We identified the proinflammatory
cytokine tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α as a crucial factor that directly caused 
reversible dedifferentiation of mouse and human melanoma cells. Tumour cells
exposed to TNF-α were poorly recognized by T cells specific for melanocytic
antigens, whereas recognition by T cells specific for non-melanocytic antigens
was unaffected or even increased. Our results demonstrate that the phenotypic
plasticity of melanoma cells in an inflammatory microenvironment contributes to
tumour relapse after initially successful T-cell immunotherapy. On the basis of
our work, we propose that future ACT protocols should simultaneously target
melanocytic and non-melanocytic antigens to ensure broad recognition of both
differentiated and dedifferentiated melanoma cells, and include strategies to
sustain T-cell effector functions by blocking immune-inhibitory mechanisms in the
tumour microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11538 
PMID: 23051752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):384-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11563. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

Bonding and structure of a reconstructed (001) surface of SrTiO3 from TEM.

Zhu GZ(1), Radtke G, Botton GA.

Author information: 
(1)Canadian Centre for Electron Microscopy and Department of Materials Science
and Engineering, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Ontario L8S 4M1,
Canada.

The determination of the atomic structure and the retrieval of information about 
reconstruction and bonding of metal oxide surfaces is challenging owing to the
highly defective structure and insulating properties of these surfaces.
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) offers extremely high spatial resolution
(less than one ångström) and the ability to provide systematic information from
both real and reciprocal space. However, very few TEM studies have been carried
out on surfaces because the information from the bulk dominates the very weak
signals originating from surfaces. Here we report an experimental approach to
extract surface information effectively from a thickness series of electron
energy-loss spectra containing different weights of surface signals, using a
wedge-shaped sample. Using the (001) surface of the technologically important
compound strontium titanate, SrTiO(3) (refs 4-6), as a model system for
validation, our method shows that surface spectra are sensitive to the atomic
reconstruction and indicate bonding and crystal-field changes surrounding the
surface Ti cations. Very good agreement can be achieved between the experimental 
surface spectra and crystal-field multiplet calculations based on the proposed
atomic surface structure optimized by density functional calculations. The
distorted TiO(6-x) units indicated by the proposed model can be viewed directly
in our high-resolution scanning TEM images. We suggest that this approach be used
as a general method to extract valuable spectroscopic information from surface
atoms in parallel with high-resolution images in TEM.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11563 
PMID: 23051749 


225. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):393-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11493. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Delayed build-up of Arctic ice sheets during 400,000-year minima in insolation
variability.

Hao Q(1), Wang L, Oldfield F, Peng S, Qin L, Song Y, Xu B, Qiao Y, Bloemendal J, 
Guo Z.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Cenozoic Geology and Environment, Institute of Geology and
Geophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100029, China.
haoqz@mail.iggcas.ac.cn

Knowledge of the past variability of climate at high northern latitudes during
astronomical analogues of the present interglacial may help to inform our
understanding of future climate change. Unfortunately, long-term continuous
records of ice-sheet variability in the Northern Hemisphere only are scarce
because records of benthic (18)O content represent an integrated signal of
changes in ice volume in both polar regions. However, variations in Northern
Hemisphere ice sheets influence the Siberian High (an atmospheric pressure
system), so variations in the East Asian winter monsoon (EAWM)--as recorded in
the aeolian dust deposits on the Chinese Loess Plateau--can serve as a useful
proxy of Arctic climate variability before the ice-core record begins. Here we
present an EAWM proxy record using grain-size variations in two parallel loess
sections representative of sequences across the whole of the Chinese Loess
Plateau over the past 900,000 years. The results show that during periods of low 
eccentricity and precessional variability at approximately 400,000-year
intervals, the grain-size-inferred intensity of the EAWM remains weak for up to
20,000 years after the end of the interglacial episode of high summer monsoon
activity and strong pedogenesis. In contrast, there is a rapid increase in the
EAWM after the end of most other interglacials. We conclude that, for both the
400,000-year interglacials, the weak EAWM winds maintain a mild, non-glacial
climate at high northern latitudes for much longer than expected from the
conventional loess and marine oxygen isotope records. During these times, the
less-severe summer insolation minima at 65° N (ref. 4) would have suppressed ice 
and snow accumulation, leading to a weak Siberian High and, consequently, weak
EAWM winds.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11493 
PMID: 23034648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):426-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11464. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

Targeting VEGF-B as a novel treatment for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Hagberg CE(1), Mehlem A, Falkevall A, Muhl L, Fam BC, Ortsäter H, Scotney P,
Nyqvist D, Samén E, Lu L, Stone-Elander S, Proietto J, Andrikopoulos S, Sjöholm
A, Nash A, Eriksson U.

Author information: 
(1)Tissue Biology Group, Division of Vascular Biology, Department of Medical
Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Nov 7;16(5):553-5.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2012 Dec;8(12):695.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is rapidly increasing, with severe
socioeconomic impacts. Excess lipid deposition in peripheral tissues impairs
insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake, and has been proposed to contribute to
the pathology of type 2 diabetes. However, few treatment options exist that
directly target ectopic lipid accumulation. Recently it was found that vascular
endothelial growth factor B (VEGF-B) controls endothelial uptake and transport of
fatty acids in heart and skeletal muscle. Here we show that decreased VEGF-B
signalling in rodent models of type 2 diabetes restores insulin sensitivity and
improves glucose tolerance. Genetic deletion of Vegfb in diabetic db/db mice
prevented ectopic lipid deposition, increased muscle glucose uptake and
maintained normoglycaemia. Pharmacological inhibition of VEGF-B signalling by
antibody administration to db/db mice enhanced glucose tolerance, preserved
pancreatic islet architecture, improved β-cell function and ameliorated
dyslipidaemia, key elements of type 2 diabetes and the metabolic syndrome. The
potential use of VEGF-B neutralization in type 2 diabetes was further elucidated 
in rats fed a high-fat diet, in which it normalized insulin sensitivity and
increased glucose uptake in skeletal muscle and heart. Our results demonstrate
that the vascular endothelium can function as an efficient barrier to excess
muscle lipid uptake even under conditions of severe obesity and type 2 diabetes, 
and that this barrier can be maintained by inhibition of VEGF-B signalling. We
propose VEGF-B antagonism as a novel pharmacological approach for type 2
diabetes, targeting the lipid-transport properties of the endothelium to improve 
muscle insulin sensitivity and glucose disposal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11464 
PMID: 23023133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):407-11. doi: 10.1038/nature11435. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells produce live transgenic mice.

Li W(1), Shuai L, Wan H, Dong M, Wang M, Sang L, Feng C, Luo GZ, Li T, Li X, Wang
L, Zheng QY, Sheng C, Wu HJ, Liu Z, Liu L, Wang L, Wang XJ, Zhao XY, Zhou Q.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

Haploids and double haploids are important resources for studying recessive
traits and have large impacts on crop breeding, but natural haploids are rare in 
animals. Mammalian haploids are restricted to germline cells and are occasionally
found in tumours with massive chromosome loss. Recent success in establishing
haploid embryonic stem (ES) cells in medaka fish and mice raised the possibility 
of using engineered mammalian haploid cells in genetic studies. However, the
availability and functional characterization of mammalian haploid ES cells are
still limited. Here we show that mouse androgenetic haploid ES (ahES) cell lines 
can be established by transferring sperm into an enucleated oocyte. The ahES
cells maintain haploidy and stable growth over 30 passages, express pluripotent
markers, possess the ability to differentiate into all three germ layers in vitro
and in vivo, and contribute to germlines of chimaeras when injected into
blastocysts. Although epigenetically distinct from sperm cells, the ahES cells
can produce viable and fertile progenies after intracytoplasmic injection into
mature oocytes. The oocyte-injection procedure can also produce viable transgenic
mice from genetically engineered ahES cells. Our findings show the developmental 
pluripotency of androgenentic haploids and provide a new tool to quickly produce 
genetic models for recessive traits. They may also shed new light on assisted
reproduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11435 
PMID: 23023130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):355-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11438. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

The aged niche disrupts muscle stem cell quiescence.

Chakkalakal JV(1), Jones KM, Basson MA, Brack AS.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2013 Apr;23(4):455-7.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Nov;13(11):681.

The niche is a conserved regulator of stem cell quiescence and function. During
ageing, stem cell function declines. To what extent and by what means age-related
changes within the niche contribute to this phenomenon are unknown. Here we
demonstrate that the aged muscle stem cell niche, the muscle fibre, expresses
Fgf2 under homeostatic conditions, driving a subset of satellite cells to break
quiescence and lose their self-renewing capacity. We show in mice that relatively
dormant aged satellite cells robustly express sprouty 1 (Spry1), an inhibitor of 
fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling. Increasing FGF signalling in aged
satellite cells under homeostatic conditions by removing Spry1 results in the
loss of quiescence, satellite cell depletion and diminished regenerative
capacity. Conversely, reducing niche-derived FGF activity through inhibition of
Fgfr1 signalling or overexpression of Spry1 in satellite cells prevents their
depletion. These experiments identify an age-dependent change in the stem cell
niche that directly influences stem cell quiescence and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11438 
PMCID: PMC3605795
PMID: 23023126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):367-72. doi: 10.1038/nature11442. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Structure of AMP-PNP-bound vitamin B12 transporter BtuCD-F.

Korkhov VM(1), Mireku SA, Locher KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, ETH Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich,
Switzerland.

The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter BtuCD mediates the uptake of vitamin
B(12) across the inner membrane of Escherichia coli. Previous structures have
shown the conformations of apo states, but the transport mechanism has remained
unclear. Here we report the 3.5 Å crystal structure of the transporter-binding
protein complex BtuCD-BtuF (BtuCD-F) trapped in an β-γ-imidoadenosine
5'-phosphate (AMP-PNP)-bound intermediate state. Although the ABC domains (BtuD
subunits) form the expected closed sandwich dimer, the membrane-spanning BtuC
subunits adopt a new conformation, with the central translocation pathway sealed 
by a previously unrecognized cytoplasmic gate. A fully enclosed cavity is thus
formed approximately halfway across the membrane. It is large enough to
accommodate a vitamin B(12) molecule, and radioligand trapping showed that
liposome-reconstituted BtuCD-F indeed contains bound B(12) in the presence of
AMP-PNP. In combination with engineered disulphide crosslinking and functional
assays, our data suggest an unexpected peristaltic transport mechanism that is
distinct from those observed in other ABC transporters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11442 
PMID: 23000901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):402-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11436. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

Severe stress switches CRF action in the nucleus accumbens from appetitive to
aversive.

Lemos JC(1), Wanat MJ, Smith JS, Reyes BA, Hollon NG, Van Bockstaele EJ, Chavkin 
C, Phillips PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Nov;13(11):741.

Stressors motivate an array of adaptive responses ranging from 'fight or flight' 
to an internal urgency signal facilitating long-term goals. However, traumatic or
chronic uncontrollable stress promotes the onset of major depressive disorder, in
which acute stressors lose their motivational properties and are perceived as
insurmountable impediments. Consequently, stress-induced depression is a
debilitating human condition characterized by an affective shift from engagement 
of the environment to withdrawal. An emerging neurobiological substrate of
depression and associated pathology is the nucleus accumbens, a region with the
capacity to mediate a diverse range of stress responses by interfacing limbic,
cognitive and motor circuitry. Here we report that corticotropin-releasing factor
(CRF), a neuropeptide released in response to acute stressors and other arousing 
environmental stimuli, acts in the nucleus accumbens of naive mice to increase
dopamine release through coactivation of the receptors CRFR1 and CRFR2.
Remarkably, severe-stress exposure completely abolished this effect without
recovery for at least 90 days. This loss of CRF's capacity to regulate dopamine
release in the nucleus accumbens is accompanied by a switch in the reaction to
CRF from appetitive to aversive, indicating a diametric change in the emotional
response to acute stressors. Thus, the current findings offer a biological
substrate for the switch in affect which is central to stress-induced depressive 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11436 
PMCID: PMC3475726
PMID: 22992525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):421-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11428. Epub 2012 Sep 16.

A FOXO3-IRF7 gene regulatory circuit limits inflammatory sequelae of antiviral
responses.

Litvak V(1), Ratushny AV, Lampano AE, Schmitz F, Huang AC, Raman A, Rust AG,
Bergthaler A, Aitchison JD, Aderem A.

Author information: 
(1)Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.

Antiviral responses must be tightly regulated to defend rapidly against infection
while minimizing inflammatory damage. Type 1 interferons (IFN-I) are crucial
mediators of antiviral responses and their transcription is regulated by a
variety of transcription factors; principal among these is the family of
interferon regulatory factors (IRFs). The IRF gene regulatory networks are
complex and contain multiple feedback loops. The tools of systems biology are
well suited to elucidate the complex interactions that give rise to precise
coordination of the interferon response. Here we have used an unbiased systems
approach to predict that a member of the forkhead family of transcription
factors, FOXO3, is a negative regulator of a subset of antiviral genes. This
prediction was validated using macrophages isolated from Foxo3-null mice.
Genome-wide location analysis combined with gene deletion studies identified the 
Irf7 gene as a critical target of FOXO3. FOXO3 was identified as a negative
regulator of Irf7 transcription and we have further demonstrated that FOXO3, IRF7
and IFN-I form a coherent feed-forward regulatory circuit. Our data suggest that 
the FOXO3-IRF7 regulatory circuit represents a novel mechanism for establishing
the requisite set points in the interferon pathway that balances the beneficial
effects and deleterious sequelae of the antiviral response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11428 
PMCID: PMC3556990
PMID: 22982991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):417-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11519. Epub 2012 Sep 10.

Increased HIV-1 vaccine efficacy against viruses with genetic signatures in Env
V2.

Rolland M(1), Edlefsen PT, Larsen BB, Tovanabutra S, Sanders-Buell E, Hertz T,
deCamp AC, Carrico C, Menis S, Magaret CA, Ahmed H, Juraska M, Chen L, Konopa P, 
Nariya S, Stoddard JN, Wong K, Zhao H, Deng W, Maust BS, Bose M, Howell S, Bates 
A, Lazzaro M, O'Sullivan A, Lei E, Bradfield A, Ibitamuno G, Assawadarachai V,
O'Connell RJ, deSouza MS, Nitayaphan S, Rerks-Ngarm S, Robb ML, McLellan JS,
Georgiev I, Kwong PD, Carlson JM, Michael NL, Schief WR, Gilbert PB, Mullins JI, 
Kim JH.

Author information: 
(1)US Military HIV Research Program, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910, USA.
mrolland@hivresearch.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):350-1.

The RV144 trial demonstrated 31% vaccine efficacy at preventing human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection. Antibodies against the HIV-1 envelope
variable loops 1 and 2 (Env V1 and V2) correlated inversely with infection risk. 
We proposed that vaccine-induced immune responses against V1/V2 would have a
selective effect against, or sieve, HIV-1 breakthrough viruses. A total of 936
HIV-1 genome sequences from 44 vaccine and 66 placebo recipients were examined.
We show that vaccine-induced immune responses were associated with two signatures
in V2 at amino acid positions 169 and 181. Vaccine efficacy against viruses
matching the vaccine at position 169 was 48% (confidence interval 18% to 66%; P =
0.0036), whereas vaccine efficacy against viruses mismatching the vaccine at
position 181 was 78% (confidence interval 35% to 93%; P = 0.0028). Residue 169 is
in a cationic glycosylated region recognized by broadly neutralizing and
RV144-derived antibodies. The predicted distance between the two signature sites 
(21 ± 7 Å) and their match/mismatch dichotomy indicate that multiple factors may 
be involved in the protection observed in RV144. Genetic signatures of RV144
vaccination in V2 complement the finding of an association between high
V1/V2-binding antibodies and reduced risk of HIV-1 acquisition, and provide
evidence that vaccine-induced V2 responses plausibly had a role in the partial
protection conferred by the RV144 regimen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11519 
PMCID: PMC3551291
PMID: 22960785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):431-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11430. Epub 2012 Sep 9.

Initiation of transcription-coupled repair characterized at single-molecule
resolution.

Howan K(1), Smith AJ, Westblade LF, Joly N, Grange W, Zorman S, Darst SA, Savery 
NJ, Strick TR.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS, UMR 7592, University Paris Diderot, Sorbonne
Paris Cité F-75205 Paris, France.

Transcription-coupled DNA repair uses components of the transcription machinery
to identify DNA lesions and initiate their repair. These repair pathways are
complex, so their mechanistic features remain poorly understood. Bacterial
transcription-coupled repair is initiated when RNA polymerase stalled at a DNA
lesion is removed by Mfd, an ATP-dependent DNA translocase. Here we use
single-molecule DNA nanomanipulation to observe the dynamic interactions of
Escherichia coli Mfd with RNA polymerase elongation complexes stalled by a
cyclopyrimidine dimer or by nucleotide starvation. We show that Mfd acts by
catalysing two irreversible, ATP-dependent transitions with different structural,
kinetic and mechanistic features. Mfd remains bound to the DNA in a long-lived
complex that could act as a marker for sites of DNA damage, directing assembly of
subsequent DNA repair factors. These results provide a framework for considering 
the kinetics of transcription-coupled repair in vivo, and open the way to
reconstruction of complete DNA repair pathways at single-molecule resolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11430 
PMCID: PMC3475728
PMID: 22960746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2012 Oct 18;490(7420):397-401. doi: 10.1038/nature11451. Epub 2012 Sep 2.

Nonlinear dendritic processing determines angular tuning of barrel cortex neurons
in vivo.

Lavzin M(1), Rapoport S, Polsky A, Garion L, Schiller J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine & Research Institute, 
Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Bat-Galim, Haifa 31096, Israel.

Layer 4 neurons in primary sensory cortices receive direct sensory information
from the external world. A general feature of these neurons is their selectivity 
to specific features of the sensory stimulation. Various theories try to explain 
the manner in which these neurons are driven by their incoming sensory
information. In all of these theories neurons are regarded as simple elements
summing small biased inputs to create tuned output through the axosomatic
amplification mechanism. However, the possible role of active dendritic
integration in further amplifying the sensory responses and sharpening the tuning
curves of neurons is disregarded. Our findings show that dendrites of layer 4
spiny stellate neurons in the barrel cortex can generate local and global
multi-branch N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) spikes, which are the main regenerative 
events in these dendrites. In turn, these NMDA receptor (NMDAR) regenerative
mechanisms can sum supralinearly the coactivated thalamocortical and
corticocortical inputs. Using in vivo whole-cell recordings combined with an
intracellular NMDAR blocker and membrane hyperpolarization, we show that
dendritic NMDAR-dependent regenerative responses contribute substantially to the 
angular tuning of layer 4 neurons by preferentially amplifying the preferred
angular directions over non-preferred angles. Taken together, these findings
indicate that dendritic NMDAR regenerative amplification mechanisms contribute
markedly to sensory responses and critically determine the tuning of cortical
neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11451 
PMID: 22940864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):258-61. doi: 10.1038/nature11495.

Complex brain and optic lobes in an early Cambrian arthropod.

Ma X(1), Hou X, Edgecombe GD, Strausfeld NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Yunnan Key Laboratory for Palaeobiology, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091,
China. x.ma@nhm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):180-1.

The nervous system provides a fundamental source of data for understanding the
evolutionary relationships between major arthropod groups. Fossil arthropods
rarely preserve neural tissue. As a result, inferring sensory and motor
attributes of Cambrian taxa has been limited to interpreting external features,
such as compound eyes or sensilla decorating appendages, and early-diverging
arthropods have scarcely been analysed in the context of nervous system
evolution. Here we report exceptional preservation of the brain and optic lobes
of a stem-group arthropod from 520 million years ago (Myr ago), Fuxianhuia
protensa, exhibiting the most compelling neuroanatomy known from the Cambrian.
The protocerebrum of Fuxianhuia is supplied by optic lobes evidencing traces of
three nested optic centres serving forward-viewing eyes. Nerves from uniramous
antennae define the deutocerebrum, and a stout pair of more caudal nerves
indicates a contiguous tritocerebral component. Fuxianhuia shares a tripartite
pre-stomodeal brain and nested optic neuropils with extant Malacostraca and
Insecta, demonstrating that these characters were present in some of the earliest
derived arthropods. The brain of Fuxianhuia impacts molecular analyses that
advocate either a branchiopod-like ancestor of Hexapoda or remipedes and possibly
cephalocarids as sister groups of Hexapoda. Resolving arguments about whether the
simple brain of a branchiopod approximates an ancestral insect brain or whether
it is the result of secondary simplification has until now been hindered by lack 
of fossil evidence. The complex brain of Fuxianhuia accords with cladistic
analyses on the basis of neural characters, suggesting that Branchiopoda derive
from a malacostracan-like ancestor but underwent evolutionary reduction and
character reversal of brain centres that are common to hexapods and
malacostracans. The early origin of sophisticated brains provides a probable
driver for versatile visual behaviours, a view that accords with compound eyes
from the early Cambrian that were, in size and resolution, equal to those of
modern insects and malacostracans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11495 
PMID: 23060195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):232-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11511.

Unexpectedly large mass loss during the thermal pulse cycle of the red giant star
R Sculptoris.

Maercker M(1), Mohamed S, Vlemmings WH, Ramstedt S, Groenewegen MA, Humphreys E, 
Kerschbaum F, Lindqvist M, Olofsson H, Paladini C, Wittkowski M, de
Gregorio-Monsalvo I, Nyman LA.

Author information: 
(1)European Southern Observatory, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 2, 85748 Garching,
Germany. mmaercke@eso.org

The asymptotic-giant-branch star R Sculptoris is surrounded by a detached shell
of dust and gas. The shell originates from a thermal pulse during which the star 
underwent a brief period of increased mass loss. It has hitherto been impossible 
to constrain observationally the timescales and mass-loss properties during and
after a thermal pulse--parameters that determine the lifetime of the asymptotic
giant branch and the amount of elements returned by the star. Here we report
observations of CO emission from the circumstellar envelope and shell around R
Sculptoris with an angular resolution of 1.3″. What was previously thought to be 
only a thin, spherical shell with a clumpy structure is revealed to also contain 
a spiral structure. Spiral structures associated with circumstellar envelopes
have been previously seen, leading to the conclusion that the systems must be
binaries. Combining the observational data with hydrodynamic simulations, we
conclude that R Sculptoris is a binary system that underwent a thermal pulse
about 1,800 years ago, lasting approximately 200 years. About 3 × 10(-3) solar
masses of material were ejected at a velocity of 14.3 km s(-1) and at a rate
around 30 times higher than the pre-pulse mass-loss rate. This shows that about
three times more mass was returned to the interstellar medium during and
immediately after the pulse than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11511 
PMID: 23060194 


237. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):226-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11526.

A neural circuit for spatial summation in visual cortex.

Adesnik H(1), Bruns W, Taniguchi H, Huang ZJ, Scanziani M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior,
Neurobiology Section and Department of Neuroscience, University of California San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA.

The response of cortical neurons to a sensory stimulus is modulated by the
context. In the visual cortex, for example, stimulation of a pyramidal cell's
receptive-field surround can attenuate the cell's response to a stimulus in the
centre of its receptive field, a phenomenon called surround suppression. Whether 
cortical circuits contribute to surround suppression or whether the phenomenon is
entirely relayed from earlier stages of visual processing is debated. Here we
show that, in contrast to pyramidal cells, the response of
somatostatin-expressing inhibitory neurons (SOMs) in the superficial layers of
the mouse visual cortex increases with stimulation of the receptive-field
surround. This difference results from the preferential excitation of SOMs by
horizontal cortical axons. By perturbing the activity of SOMs, we show that these
neurons contribute to pyramidal cells' surround suppression. These results
establish a cortical circuit for surround suppression and attribute a particular 
function to a genetically defined type of inhibitory neuron.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11526 
PMCID: PMC3621107
PMID: 23060193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):219-25. doi: 10.1038/nature11529.

Retinal waves coordinate patterned activity throughout the developing visual
system.

Ackman JB(1), Burbridge TJ, Crair MC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA.

The morphological and functional development of the vertebrate nervous system is 
initially governed by genetic factors and subsequently refined by neuronal
activity. However, fundamental features of the nervous system emerge before
sensory experience is possible. Thus, activity-dependent development occurring
before the onset of experience must be driven by spontaneous activity, but the
origin and nature of activity in vivo remains largely untested. Here we use
optical methods to show in live neonatal mice that waves of spontaneous retinal
activity are present and propagate throughout the entire visual system before eye
opening. This patterned activity encompassed the visual field, relied on
cholinergic neurotransmission, preferentially initiated in the binocular retina
and exhibited spatiotemporal correlations between the two hemispheres. Retinal
waves were the primary source of activity in the midbrain and primary visual
cortex, but only modulated ongoing activity in secondary visual areas. Thus,
spontaneous retinal activity is transmitted through the entire visual system and 
carries patterned information capable of guiding the activity-dependent
development of complex intra- and inter-hemispheric circuits before the onset of 
vision.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11529 
PMCID: PMC3962269
PMID: 23060192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):208-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11518.

The hexadehydro-Diels-Alder reaction.

Hoye TR(1), Baire B, Niu D, Willoughby PH, Woods BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55455, USA. hoye@umn.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):179-80.

Arynes (aromatic systems containing, formally, a carbon-carbon triple bond) are
among the most versatile of all reactive intermediates in organic chemistry. They
can be 'trapped' to give products that are used as pharmaceuticals,
agrochemicals, dyes, polymers and other fine chemicals. Here we explore a
strategy that unites the de novo generation of benzynes-through a
hexadehydro-Diels-Alder reaction-with their in situ elaboration into structurally
complex benzenoid products. In the hexadehydro-Diels-Alder reaction, a 1,3-diyne 
is engaged in a [4+2] cycloisomerization with a 'diynophile' to produce the
highly reactive benzyne intermediate. The reaction conditions for this simple,
thermal transformation are notable for being free of metals and reagents. The
subsequent and highly efficient trapping reactions increase the power of the
overall process. Finally, we provide examples of how this de novo benzyne
generation approach allows new modes of intrinsic reactivity to be revealed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11518 
PMCID: PMC3538845
PMID: 23060191 


240. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):201-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11320.

Molecular machines governing exocytosis of synaptic vesicles.

Jahn R(1), Fasshauer D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
37077 Göttingen, Germany. rjahn@gwdg.de

Calcium-dependent exocytosis of synaptic vesicles mediates the release of
neurotransmitters. Important proteins in this process have been identified such
as the SNAREs, synaptotagmins, complexins, Munc18 and Munc13. Structural and
functional studies have yielded a wealth of information about the physiological
role of these proteins. However, it has been surprisingly difficult to arrive at 
a unified picture of the molecular sequence of events from vesicle docking to
calcium-triggered membrane fusion. Using mainly a biochemical and biophysical
perspective, we briefly survey the molecular mechanisms in an attempt to
functionally integrate the key proteins into the emerging picture of the neuronal
fusion machine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11320 
PMCID: PMC4461657
PMID: 23060190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):192-200. doi: 10.1038/nature11458.

A roadmap for graphene.

Novoselov KS(1), Fal'ko VI, Colombo L, Gellert PR, Schwab MG, Kim K.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester, Oxford Road,
Manchester M13 9PL, UK. kostya@manchester.ac.uk

Recent years have witnessed many breakthroughs in research on graphene (the first
two-dimensional atomic crystal) as well as a significant advance in the mass
production of this material. This one-atom-thick fabric of carbon uniquely
combines extreme mechanical strength, exceptionally high electronic and thermal
conductivities, impermeability to gases, as well as many other supreme
properties, all of which make it highly attractive for numerous applications.
Here we review recent progress in graphene research and in the development of
production methods, and critically analyse the feasibility of various graphene
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11458 
PMID: 23060189 


242. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):187-91. doi: 10.1038/nature11556.

A call for transparent reporting to optimize the predictive value of preclinical 
research.

Landis SC(1), Amara SG, Asadullah K, Austin CP, Blumenstein R, Bradley EW,
Crystal RG, Darnell RB, Ferrante RJ, Fillit H, Finkelstein R, Fisher M, Gendelman
HE, Golub RM, Goudreau JL, Gross RA, Gubitz AK, Hesterlee SE, Howells DW,
Huguenard J, Kelner K, Koroshetz W, Krainc D, Lazic SE, Levine MS, Macleod MR,
McCall JM, Moxley RT 3rd, Narasimhan K, Noble LJ, Perrin S, Porter JD, Steward O,
Unger E, Utz U, Silberberg SD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Diabetes. 2013 Aug;62(8):e15.
    Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):41.
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):192.

The US National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke convened major
stakeholders in June 2012 to discuss how to improve the methodological reporting 
of animal studies in grant applications and publications. The main workshop
recommendation is that at a minimum studies should report on sample-size
estimation, whether and how animals were randomized, whether investigators were
blind to the treatment, and the handling of data. We recognize that achieving a
meaningful improvement in the quality of reporting will require a concerted
effort by investigators, reviewers, funding agencies and journal editors.
Requiring better reporting of animal studies will raise awareness of the
importance of rigorous study design to accelerate scientific progress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11556 
PMCID: PMC3511845
PMID: 23060188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11562. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Probing graphene grain boundaries with optical microscopy.

Duong DL(1), Han GH, Lee SM, Gunes F, Kim ES, Kim ST, Kim H, Ta QH, So KP, Yoon
SJ, Chae SJ, Jo YW, Park MH, Chae SH, Lim SC, Choi JY, Lee YH.

Author information: 
(1)Sungkyunkwan Advanced Institute of Nanotechnology, Sungkyunkwan University,
Suwon 440-746, South Korea.

Grain boundaries in graphene are formed by the joining of islands during the
initial growth stage, and these boundaries govern transport properties and
related device performance. Although information on the atomic rearrangement at
graphene grain boundaries can be obtained using transmission electron microscopy 
and scanning tunnelling microscopy, large-scale information regarding the
distribution of graphene grain boundaries is not easily accessible. Here we use
optical microscopy to observe the grain boundaries of large-area graphene (grown 
on copper foil) directly, without transfer of the graphene. This imaging
technique was realized by selectively oxidizing the underlying copper foil
through graphene grain boundaries functionalized with O and OH radicals generated
by ultraviolet irradiation under moisture-rich ambient conditions: selective
diffusion of oxygen radicals through OH-functionalized defect sites was
demonstrated by density functional calculations. The sheet resistance of
large-area graphene decreased as the graphene grain sizes increased, but no
strong correlation with the grain size of the copper was revealed, in contrast to
a previous report. Furthermore, the influence of graphene grain boundaries on
crack propagation (initialized by bending) and termination was clearly visualized
using our technique. Our approach can be used as a simple protocol for evaluating
the grain boundaries of other two-dimensional layered structures, such as boron
nitride and exfoliated clays.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11562 
PMID: 23034653 


244. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):262-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11466. Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Dopaminergic neurons inhibit striatal output through non-canonical release of
GABA.

Tritsch NX(1), Ding JB, Sabatini BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical
School, 220 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):178-9.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Dec;13(12):815.

The substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area contain the two
largest populations of dopamine-releasing neurons in the mammalian brain. These
neurons extend elaborate projections in the striatum, a large subcortical
structure implicated in motor planning and reward-based learning. Phasic
activation of dopaminergic neurons in response to salient or reward-predicting
stimuli is thought to modulate striatal output through the release of dopamine to
promote and reinforce motor action. Here we show that activation of dopamine
neurons in striatal slices rapidly inhibits action potential firing in both
direct- and indirect-pathway striatal projection neurons through vesicular
release of the inhibitory transmitter GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid). GABA is
released directly from dopaminergic axons but in a manner that is independent of 
the vesicular GABA transporter VGAT. Instead, GABA release requires activity of
the vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2, which is the vesicular transporter for
dopamine. Furthermore, VMAT2 expression in GABAergic neurons lacking VGAT is
sufficient to sustain GABA release. Thus, these findings expand the repertoire of
synaptic mechanisms used by dopamine neurons to influence basal ganglia circuits,
show a new substrate whose transport is dependent on VMAT2 and demonstrate that
GABA can function as a bona fide co-transmitter in monoaminergic neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11466 
PMCID: PMC3944587
PMID: 23034651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11520. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

April 2012 intra-oceanic seismicity off Sumatra boosted by the Banda-Aceh
megathrust.

Delescluse M(1), Chamot-Rooke N, Cattin R, Fleitout L, Trubienko O, Vigny C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géologie, Ecole Normale Supérieure and CNRS UMR8538, 75005
Paris, France. delescluse@geologie.ens.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):183-5.

Large earthquakes nucleate at tectonic plate boundaries, and their occurrence
within a plate's interior remains rare and poorly documented, especially
offshore. The two large earthquakes that struck the northeastern Indian Ocean on 
11 April 2012 are an exception: they are the largest strike-slip events reported 
in historical times and triggered large aftershocks worldwide. Yet they occurred 
within an intra-oceanic setting along the fossil fabric of the extinct Wharton
basin, rather than on a discrete plate boundary. Here we show that the 11 April
2012 twin earthquakes are part of a continuing boost of the intraplate
deformation between India and Australia that followed the Aceh 2004 and Nias 2005
megathrust earthquakes, subsequent to a stress transfer process recognized at
other subduction zones. Using Coulomb stress change calculations, we show that
the coseismic slips of the Aceh and Nias earthquakes can promote oceanic
left-lateral strike-slip earthquakes on pre-existing meridian-aligned fault
planes. We further show that persistent viscous relaxation in the asthenospheric 
mantle several years after the Aceh megathrust explains the time lag between the 
2004 megathrust and the 2012 intraplate events. On a short timescale, the 2012
events provide new evidence for the interplay between megathrusts at the
subduction interface and intraplate deformation offshore. On a longer geological 
timescale, the Australian plate, driven by slab-pull forces at the Sunda trench, 
is detaching from the Indian plate, which is subjected to resisting forces at the
Himalayan front.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11520 
PMID: 23023134 


246. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):250-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11504. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

The 11 April 2012 east Indian Ocean earthquake triggered large aftershocks
worldwide.

Pollitz FF(1), Stein RS, Sevilgen V, Bürgmann R.

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, 345 Middlefield Road, MS 977, Menlo Park, California
94025, USA. fpollitz@usgs.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):183-5.

Large earthquakes trigger very small earthquakes globally during passage of the
seismic waves and during the following several hours to days, but so far remote
aftershocks of moment magnitude M ≥ 5.5 have not been identified, with the lone
exception of an M = 6.9 quake remotely triggered by the surface waves from an M =
6.6 quake 4,800 kilometres away. The 2012 east Indian Ocean earthquake that had a
moment magnitude of 8.6 is the largest strike-slip event ever recorded. Here we
show that the rate of occurrence of remote M ≥ 5.5 earthquakes (>1,500 kilometres
from the epicentre) increased nearly fivefold for six days after the 2012 event, 
and extended in magnitude to M ≤ 7. These global aftershocks were located along
the four lobes of Love-wave radiation; all struck where the dynamic shear strain 
is calculated to exceed 10(-7) for at least 100 seconds during dynamic-wave
passage. The other M ≥ 8.5 mainshocks during the past decade are thrusts; after
these events, the global rate of occurrence of remote M ≥ 5.5 events increased by
about one-third the rate following the 2012 shock and lasted for only two days, a
weaker but possibly real increase. We suggest that the unprecedented delayed
triggering power of the 2012 earthquake may have arisen because of its
strike-slip source geometry or because the event struck at a time of an unusually
low global earthquake rate, perhaps increasing the number of nucleation sites
that were very close to failure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11504 
PMID: 23023131 


247. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):245-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11492. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

En échelon and orthogonal fault ruptures of the 11 April 2012 great intraplate
earthquakes.

Yue H(1), Lay T, Koper KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California Santa
Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):183-5.

The Indo-Australian plate is undergoing distributed internal deformation caused
by the lateral transition along its northern boundary--from an environment of
continental collision to an island arc subduction zone. On 11 April 2012, one of 
the largest strike-slip earthquakes ever recorded (seismic moment magnitude M(w) 
8.7) occurred about 100-200 kilometres southwest of the Sumatra subduction zone. 
Occurrence of great intraplate strike-slip faulting located seaward of a
subduction zone is unusual. It results from northwest-southeast compression
within the plate caused by the India-Eurasia continental collision to the
northwest, together with northeast-southwest extension associated with slab pull 
stresses as the plate underthrusts Sumatra to the northeast. Here we use seismic 
wave analyses to reveal that the 11 April 2012 event had an extraordinarily
complex four-fault rupture lasting about 160 seconds, and was followed
approximately two hours later by a great (M(w) 8.2) aftershock. The mainshock
rupture initially expanded bilaterally with large slip (20-30 metres) on a
right-lateral strike-slip fault trending west-northwest to east-southeast
(WNW-ESE), and then bilateral rupture was triggered on an orthogonal left-lateral
strike-slip fault trending north-northeast to south-southwest (NNE-SSW) that
crosses the first fault. This was followed by westward rupture on a second
WNW-ESE strike-slip fault offset about 150 kilometres towards the southwest from 
the first fault. Finally, rupture was triggered on another en échelon WNW-ESE
fault about 330 kilometres west of the epicentre crossing the Ninetyeast ridge.
The great aftershock, with an epicentre located 185 kilometres to the SSW of the 
mainshock epicentre, ruptured bilaterally on a NNE-SSW fault. The complex
faulting limits our resolution of the slip distribution. These great ruptures on 
a lattice of strike-slip faults that extend through the crust and a further
30-40 kilometres into the upper mantle represent large lithospheric deformation
that may eventually lead to a localized boundary between the Indian and
Australian plates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11492 
PMID: 23023129 


248. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):273-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11431. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Controlling interneuron activity in Caenorhabditis elegans to evoke chemotactic
behaviour.

Kocabas A(1), Shen CH, Guo ZV, Ramanathan S.

Author information: 
(1)FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA. akocabas@cgr.harvard.edu

Animals locate and track chemoattractive gradients in the environment to find
food. With its small nervous system, Caenorhabditis elegans is a good model
system in which to understand how the dynamics of neural activity control this
search behaviour. Extensive work on the nematode has identified the neurons that 
are necessary for the different locomotory behaviours underlying chemotaxis
through the use of laser ablation, activity recording in immobilized animals and 
the study of mutants. However, we do not know the neural activity patterns in C. 
elegans that are sufficient to control its complex chemotactic behaviour. To
understand how the activity in its interneurons coordinate different motor
programs to lead the animal to food, here we used optogenetics and new optical
tools to manipulate neural activity directly in freely moving animals to evoke
chemotactic behaviour. By deducing the classes of activity patterns triggered
during chemotaxis and exciting individual neurons with these patterns, we
identified interneurons that control the essential locomotory programs for this
behaviour. Notably, we discovered that controlling the dynamics of activity in
just one interneuron pair (AIY) was sufficient to force the animal to locate,
turn towards and track virtual light gradients. Two distinct activity patterns
triggered in AIY as the animal moved through the gradient controlled reversals
and gradual turns to drive chemotactic behaviour. Because AIY neurons are
post-synaptic to most chemosensory and thermosensory neurons, it is probable that
these activity patterns in AIY have an important role in controlling and
coordinating different taxis behaviours of the animal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11431 
PMCID: PMC4229948
PMID: 23000898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):267-72. doi: 10.1038/nature11401. Epub 2012 Sep 16.

FTO genotype is associated with phenotypic variability of body mass index.

Yang J(1), Loos RJ, Powell JE, Medland SE, Speliotes EK, Chasman DI, Rose LM,
Thorleifsson G, Steinthorsdottir V, Mägi R, Waite L, Smith AV, Yerges-Armstrong
LM, Monda KL, Hadley D, Mahajan A, Li G, Kapur K, Vitart V, Huffman JE, Wang SR, 
Palmer C, Esko T, Fischer K, Zhao JH, Demirkan A, Isaacs A, Feitosa MF, Luan J,
Heard-Costa NL, White C, Jackson AU, Preuss M, Ziegler A, Eriksson J, Kutalik Z, 
Frau F, Nolte IM, Van Vliet-Ostaptchouk JV, Hottenga JJ, Jacobs KB, Verweij N,
Goel A, Medina-Gomez C, Estrada K, Bragg-Gresham JL, Sanna S, Sidore C, Tyrer J, 
Teumer A, Prokopenko I, Mangino M, Lindgren CM, Assimes TL, Shuldiner AR, Hui J, 
Beilby JP, McArdle WL, Hall P, Haritunians T, Zgaga L, Kolcic I, Polasek O,
Zemunik T, Oostra BA, Junttila MJ, Grönberg H, Schreiber S, Peters A, Hicks AA,
Stephens J, Foad NS, Laitinen J, Pouta A, Kaakinen M, Willemsen G, Vink JM, Wild 
SH, Navis G, Asselbergs FW, Homuth G, John U, Iribarren C, Harris T, Launer L,
Gudnason V, O'Connell JR, Boerwinkle E, Cadby G, Palmer LJ, James AL, Musk AW,
Ingelsson E, Psaty BM, Beckmann JS, Waeber G, Vollenweider P, Hayward C, Wright
AF, Rudan I, Groop LC, Metspalu A, Khaw KT, van Duijn CM, Borecki IB, Province
MA, Wareham NJ, Tardif JC, Huikuri HV, Cupples LA, Atwood LD, Fox CS, Boehnke M, 
Collins FS, Mohlke KL, Erdmann J, Schunkert H, Hengstenberg C, Stark K, Lorentzon
M, Ohlsson C, Cusi D, Staessen JA, Van der Klauw MM, Pramstaller PP, Kathiresan
S, Jolley JD, Ripatti S, Jarvelin MR, de Geus EJ, Boomsma DI, Penninx B, Wilson
JF, Campbell H, Chanock SJ, van der Harst P, Hamsten A, Watkins H, Hofman A,
Witteman JC, Zillikens MC, Uitterlinden AG, Rivadeneira F, Zillikens MC, Kiemeney
LA, Vermeulen SH, Abecasis GR, Schlessinger D, Schipf S, Stumvoll M, Tönjes A,
Spector TD, North KE, Lettre G, McCarthy MI, Berndt SI, Heath AC, Madden PA,
Nyholt DR, Montgomery GW, Martin NG, McKnight B, Strachan DP, Hill WG, Snieder H,
Ridker PM, Thorsteinsdottir U, Stefansson K, Frayling TM, Hirschhorn JN, Goddard 
ME, Visscher PM.

Author information: 
(1)University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, The University of Queensland,
Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland 4102, Australia.

There is evidence across several species for genetic control of phenotypic
variation of complex traits, such that the variance among phenotypes is genotype 
dependent. Understanding genetic control of variability is important in
evolutionary biology, agricultural selection programmes and human medicine, yet
for complex traits, no individual genetic variants associated with variance, as
opposed to the mean, have been identified. Here we perform a meta-analysis of
genome-wide association studies of phenotypic variation using ∼170,000 samples on
height and body mass index (BMI) in human populations. We report evidence that
the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs7202116 at the FTO gene locus, which
is known to be associated with obesity (as measured by mean BMI for each
rs7202116 genotype), is also associated with phenotypic variability. We show that
the results are not due to scale effects or other artefacts, and find no other
experiment-wise significant evidence for effects on variability, either at loci
other than FTO for BMI or at any locus for height. The difference in variance for
BMI among individuals with opposite homozygous genotypes at the FTO locus is
approximately 7%, corresponding to a difference of ∼0.5 kilograms in the standard
deviation of weight. Our results indicate that genetic variants can be discovered
that are associated with variability, and that between-person variability in
obesity can partly be explained by the genotype at the FTO locus. The results are
consistent with reported FTO by environment interactions for BMI, possibly
mediated by DNA methylation. Our BMI results for other SNPs and our height
results for all SNPs suggest that most genetic variants, including those that
influence mean height or mean BMI, are not associated with phenotypic variance,
or that their effects on variability are too small to detect even with samples
sizes greater than 100,000.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11401 
PMCID: PMC3564953
PMID: 22982992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):213-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11417. Epub 2012 Sep 12.

Small heat-shock proteins protect from heat-stroke-associated neurodegeneration.

Kourtis N(1), Nikoletopoulou V, Tavernarakis N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology, Heraklion 71110, Crete, Greece.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Nov;13(11):682-3.

Heat stroke is a life-threatening condition, characterized by catastrophic
collapse of thermoregulation and extreme hyperthermia. In recent years,
intensification of heat waves has caused a surge of heat-stroke fatalities. The
mechanisms underlying heat-related pathology are poorly understood. Here we show 
that heat stroke triggers pervasive necrotic cell death and neurodegeneration in 
Caenorhabditis elegans. Preconditioning of animals at a mildly elevated
temperature strongly protects from heat-induced necrosis. The heat-shock
transcription factor HSF-1 and the small heat-shock protein HSP-16.1 mediate
cytoprotection by preconditioning. HSP-16.1 localizes to the Golgi, where it
functions with the Ca(2+)- and Mn(2+)-transporting ATPase PMR-1 to maintain
Ca(2+) homeostasis under heat stroke. Preconditioning also suppresses cell death 
inflicted by diverse insults, and protects mammalian neurons from heat
cytotoxicity. These findings reveal an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that
defends against diverse necrotic stimuli, and may be relevant to heat stroke and 
other pathological conditions involving necrosis in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11417 
PMID: 22972192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):278-82. doi: 10.1038/nature11415. Epub 2012 Sep 12.

Restoration of auditory evoked responses by human ES-cell-derived otic
progenitors.

Chen W(1), Jongkamonwiwat N, Abbas L, Eshtan SJ, Johnson SL, Kuhn S, Milo M,
Thurlow JK, Andrews PW, Marcotti W, Moore HD, Rivolta MN.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Stem Cell Biology, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN, UK.

Comment in
    Stem Cell Res Ther. 2012;3(6):44.

Deafness is a condition with a high prevalence worldwide, produced primarily by
the loss of the sensory hair cells and their associated spiral ganglion neurons
(SGNs). Of all the forms of deafness, auditory neuropathy is of particular
concern. This condition, defined primarily by damage to the SGNs with relative
preservation of the hair cells, is responsible for a substantial proportion of
patients with hearing impairment. Although the loss of hair cells can be
circumvented partially by a cochlear implant, no routine treatment is available
for sensory neuron loss, as poor innervation limits the prospective performance
of an implant. Using stem cells to recover the damaged sensory circuitry is a
potential therapeutic strategy. Here we present a protocol to induce
differentiation from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) using signals involved in
the initial specification of the otic placode. We obtained two types of otic
progenitors able to differentiate in vitro into hair-cell-like cells and auditory
neurons that display expected electrophysiological properties. Moreover, when
transplanted into an auditory neuropathy model, otic neuroprogenitors engraft,
differentiate and significantly improve auditory-evoked response thresholds.
These results should stimulate further research into the development of a
cell-based therapy for deafness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11415 
PMCID: PMC3480718
PMID: 22972191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):254-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11420. Epub 2012 Aug 29.

Closing yield gaps through nutrient and water management.

Mueller ND(1), Gerber JS, Johnston M, Ray DK, Ramankutty N, Foley JA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute on the Environment, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota
55108, USA. muell512@umn.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 21;494(7437):390.

In the coming decades, a crucial challenge for humanity will be meeting future
food demands without undermining further the integrity of the Earth's
environmental systems. Agricultural systems are already major forces of global
environmental degradation, but population growth and increasing consumption of
calorie- and meat-intensive diets are expected to roughly double human food
demand by 2050 (ref. 3). Responding to these pressures, there is increasing focus
on 'sustainable intensification' as a means to increase yields on underperforming
landscapes while simultaneously decreasing the environmental impacts of
agricultural systems. However, it is unclear what such efforts might entail for
the future of global agricultural landscapes. Here we present a global-scale
assessment of intensification prospects from closing 'yield gaps' (differences
between observed yields and those attainable in a given region), the spatial
patterns of agricultural management practices and yield limitation, and the
management changes that may be necessary to achieve increased yields. We find
that global yield variability is heavily controlled by fertilizer use, irrigation
and climate. Large production increases (45% to 70% for most crops) are possible 
from closing yield gaps to 100% of attainable yields, and the changes to
management practices that are needed to close yield gaps vary considerably by
region and current intensity. Furthermore, we find that there are large
opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture by eliminating
nutrient overuse, while still allowing an approximately 30% increase in
production of major cereals (maize, wheat and rice). Meeting the food security
and sustainability challenges of the coming decades is possible, but will require
considerable changes in nutrient and water management.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11420 
PMID: 22932270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):288-91. doi: 10.1038/nature11419. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Caspase-11 increases susceptibility to Salmonella infection in the absence of
caspase-1.

Broz P(1), Ruby T, Belhocine K, Bouley DM, Kayagaki N, Dixit VM, Monack DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Stanford School of Medicine,
Stanford University, California 94305, USA.

Inflammasomes are cytosolic multiprotein complexes assembled by intracellular
nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptors (NLRs) and they
initiate innate immune responses to invading pathogens and danger signals by
activating caspase-1 (ref. 1). Caspase-1 activation leads to the maturation and
release of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18, as well 
as lytic inflammatory cell death known as pyroptosis. Recently, a new
non-canonical inflammasome was described that activates caspase-11, a
pro-inflammatory caspase required for lipopolysaccharide-induced lethality. This 
study also highlighted that previously generated caspase-1 knockout mice lack a
functional allele of Casp11 (also known as Casp4), making them functionally
Casp1 Casp11 double knockouts. Previous studies have shown that these mice are
more susceptible to infections with microbial pathogens, including the bacterial 
pathogen Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. typhimurium), but the
individual contributions of caspase-1 and caspase-11 to this phenotype are not
known. Here we show that non-canonical caspase-11 activation contributes to
macrophage death during S. typhimurium infection. Toll-like receptor 4
(TLR4)-dependent and TIR-domain-containing adaptor-inducing interferon-β
(TRIF)-dependent interferon-β production is crucial for caspase-11 activation in 
macrophages, but is only partially required for pro-caspase-11 expression,
consistent with the existence of an interferon-inducible activator of caspase-11.
Furthermore, Casp1(-/-) mice were significantly more susceptible to infection
with S. typhimurium than mice lacking both pro-inflammatory caspases
(Casp1(-/-) Casp11(-/-)). This phenotype was accompanied by higher bacterial
counts, the formation of extracellular bacterial microcolonies in the infected
tissue and a defect in neutrophil-mediated clearance. These results indicate that
caspase-11-dependent cell death is detrimental to the host in the absence of
caspase-1-mediated innate immunity, resulting in extracellular replication of a
facultative intracellular bacterial pathogen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11419 
PMCID: PMC3470772
PMID: 22895188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):283-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11398. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

HIV-infected T cells are migratory vehicles for viral dissemination.

Murooka TT(1), Deruaz M, Marangoni F, Vrbanac VD, Seung E, von Andrian UH, Tager 
AM, Luster AD, Mempel TR.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Immunology and Inflammatory Diseases, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Oct;10(10):673.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Sep;12(9):620-1.

After host entry through mucosal surfaces, human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1)
disseminates to lymphoid tissues to establish a generalized infection of the
immune system. The mechanisms by which this virus spreads among permissive target
cells locally during the early stages of transmission and systemically during
subsequent dissemination are not known. In vitro studies suggest that the
formation of virological synapses during stable contacts between infected and
uninfected T cells greatly increases the efficiency of viral transfer. It is
unclear, however, whether T-cell contacts are sufficiently stable in vivo to
allow for functional synapse formation under the conditions of perpetual cell
motility in epithelial and lymphoid tissues. Here, using multiphoton intravital
microscopy, we examine the dynamic behaviour of HIV-infected T cells in the lymph
nodes of humanized mice. We find that most productively infected T cells migrate 
robustly, resulting in their even distribution throughout the lymph node cortex. 
A subset of infected cells formed multinucleated syncytia through HIV
envelope-dependent cell fusion. Both uncoordinated motility of syncytia and
adhesion to CD4(+) lymph node cells led to the formation of long membrane
tethers, increasing cell lengths to up to ten times that of migrating uninfected 
T cells. Blocking the egress of migratory T cells from the lymph nodes into
efferent lymph vessels, and thus interrupting T-cell recirculation, limited HIV
dissemination and strongly reduced plasma viraemia. Thus, we have found that
HIV-infected T cells are motile, form syncytia and establish tethering
interactions that may facilitate cell-to-cell transmission through virological
synapses. Migration of T cells in lymph nodes therefore spreads infection
locally, whereas their recirculation through tissues is important for efficient
systemic viral spread, suggesting new molecular targets to antagonize HIV
infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11398 
PMCID: PMC3470742
PMID: 22854780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11328.

A Silurian armoured aplacophoran and implications for molluscan phylogeny.

Sutton MD(1), Briggs DE, Siveter DJ, Siveter DJ, Sigwart JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences and Engineering, Imperial College London, London 
SW7 2BP, UK. m.sutton@imperial.ac.uk

The Mollusca is one of the most diverse, important and well-studied invertebrate 
phyla; however, relationships among major molluscan taxa have long been a subject
of controversy. In particular, the position of the shell-less vermiform
Aplacophora and its relationship to the better-known Polyplacophora (chitons)
have been problematic: Aplacophora has been treated as a paraphyletic or
monophyletic group at the base of the Mollusca, proximate to other derived clades
such as Cephalopoda, or as sister group to the Polyplacophora, forming the clade 
Aculifera. Resolution of this debate is required to allow the evolutionary
origins of Mollusca to be reconstructed with confidence. Recent fossil finds
support the Aculifera hypothesis, demonstrating that the Palaeozoic-era
palaeoloricate 'chitons' included taxa combining certain polyplacophoran and
aplacophoran characteristics. However, fossils combining an unambiguously
aplacophoran-like body with chiton-like valves have remained elusive. Here we
describe such a fossil, Kulindroplax perissokomos gen. et sp. nov., from the
Herefordshire Lagerstätte (about 425 million years bp), a Silurian deposit
preserving a marine biota in unusual three-dimensional detail. The specimen is
reconstructed three-dimensionally through physical-optical tomography.
Phylogenetic analysis indicates that this and many other palaeoloricate chitons
are crown-group aplacophorans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11328 
PMID: 23038472  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):89-93. doi: 10.1038/nature11491.

Dynamical similarity of geomagnetic field reversals.

Valet JP(1), Fournier A, Courtillot V, Herrero-Bervera E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Université Paris 
Diderot, UMR 7154 CNRS, 1 rue Jussieu, 75238 Paris Cedex 05, France.
valet@ipgp.fr

No consensus has been reached so far on the properties of the geomagnetic field
during reversals or on the main features that might reveal its dynamics. A main
characteristic of the reversing field is a large decrease in the axial dipole and
the dominant role of non-dipole components. Other features strongly depend on
whether they are derived from sedimentary or volcanic records. Only thermal
remanent magnetization of lava flows can capture faithful records of a rapidly
varying non-dipole field, but, because of episodic volcanic activity, sequences
of overlying flows yield incomplete records. Here we show that the ten most
detailed volcanic records of reversals can be matched in a very satisfactory way,
under the assumption of a common duration, revealing common dynamical
characteristics. We infer that the reversal process has remained unchanged, with 
the same time constants and durations, at least since 180 million years ago. We
propose that the reversing field is characterized by three successive phases: a
precursory event, a 180° polarity switch and a rebound. The first and third
phases reflect the emergence of the non-dipole field with large-amplitude secular
variation. They are rarely both recorded at the same site owing to the rapidly
changing field geometry and last for less than 2,500 years. The actual transit
between the two polarities does not last longer than 1,000 years and might
therefore result from mechanisms other than those governing normal secular
variation. Such changes are too brief to be accurately recorded by most
sediments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11491 
PMID: 23038471 


257. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11461.

Natural and anthropogenic variations in methane sources during the past two
millennia.

Sapart CJ(1), Monteil G, Prokopiou M, van de Wal RS, Kaplan JO, Sperlich P,
Krumhardt KM, van der Veen C, Houweling S, Krol MC, Blunier T, Sowers T,
Martinerie P, Witrant E, Dahl-Jensen D, Röckmann T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research Utrecht, Utrecht University,
Princetonplein 5, 3584CC Utrecht, The Netherlands. c.j.sapart@uu.nl

Methane is an important greenhouse gas that is emitted from multiple natural and 
anthropogenic sources. Atmospheric methane concentrations have varied on a number
of timescales in the past, but what has caused these variations is not always
well understood. The different sources and sinks of methane have specific
isotopic signatures, and the isotopic composition of methane can therefore help
to identify the environmental drivers of variations in atmospheric methane
concentrations. Here we present high-resolution carbon isotope data (δ(13)C
content) for methane from two ice cores from Greenland for the past two
millennia. We find that the δ(13)C content underwent pronounced centennial-scale 
variations between 100 BC and AD 1600. With the help of two-box model
calculations, we show that the centennial-scale variations in isotope ratios can 
be attributed to changes in pyrogenic and biogenic sources. We find correlations 
between these source changes and both natural climate variability--such as the
Medieval Climate Anomaly and the Little Ice Age--and changes in human population 
and land use, such as the decline of the Roman empire and the Han dynasty, and
the population expansion during the medieval period.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11461 
PMID: 23038470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11359.

Sulphate-climate coupling over the past 300,000 years in inland Antarctica.

Iizuka Y(1), Uemura R, Motoyama H, Suzuki T, Miyake T, Hirabayashi M, Hondoh T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Low Temperature Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo 060-0819,
Japan. iizuka@lowtem.hokudai.ac.jp

Sulphate aerosols, particularly micrometre-sized particles of sulphate salt and
sulphate-adhered dust, can act as cloud condensation nuclei, leading to increased
solar scattering that cools Earth's climate. Evidence for such a coupling may lie
in the sulphate record from polar ice cores, but previous analyses of melted
ice-core samples have provided only sulphate ion concentrations, which may be due
to sulphuric acid. Here we present profiles of sulphate salt and sulphate-adhered
dust fluxes over the past 300,000 years from the Dome Fuji ice core in inland
Antarctica. Our results show a nearly constant flux of sulphate-adhered dust
through glacial and interglacial periods despite the large increases in total
dust flux during glacial maxima. The sulphate salt flux, however, correlates
inversely with temperature, suggesting a climatic coupling between particulate
sulphur and temperature. For example, the total sulphate salt flux during the
Last Glacial Maximum averages 5.78 mg m(-2) yr(-1), which is almost twice the
Holocene value. Although it is based on a modern analogue with considerable
uncertainties when applied to the ice-core record, this analysis indicates that
the glacial-to-interglacial decrease in sulphate would lessen the aerosol
indirect effects on cloud lifetime and albedo, leading to an Antarctic warming of
0.1 to 5 kelvin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11359 
PMID: 23038469 


259. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):77-80. doi: 10.1038/nature11505.

Stabilizing Rabi oscillations in a superconducting qubit using quantum feedback.

Vijay R(1), Macklin C, Slichter DH, Weber SJ, Murch KW, Naik R, Korotkov AN,
Siddiqi I.

Author information: 
(1)Quantum Nanoelectronics Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. rvijay@berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):43-4.

The act of measurement bridges the quantum and classical worlds by projecting a
superposition of possible states into a single (probabilistic) outcome. The
timescale of this 'instantaneous' process can be stretched using weak
measurements, such that it takes the form of a gradual random walk towards a
final state. Remarkably, the interim measurement record is sufficient to
continuously track and steer the quantum state using feedback. Here we implement 
quantum feedback control in a solid-state system, namely a superconducting
quantum bit (qubit) coupled to a microwave cavity. A weak measurement of the
qubit is implemented by probing the cavity with microwave photons, maintaining
its average occupation at less than one photon. These photons are then directed
to a high-bandwidth, quantum-noise-limited amplifier, which allows real-time
monitoring of the state of the cavity (and, hence, that of the qubit) with high
fidelity. We demonstrate quantum feedback control by inhibiting the decay of Rabi
oscillations, allowing them to persist indefinitely. Such an ability permits the 
active suppression of decoherence and enables a method of quantum error
correction based on weak continuous measurements. Other applications include
quantum state stabilization, entanglement generation using measurement, state
purification and adaptive measurements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11505 
PMID: 23038468 


260. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):74-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11469.

Comet-like mineralogy of olivine crystals in an extrasolar proto-Kuiper belt.

de Vries BL(1), Acke B, Blommaert JA, Waelkens C, Waters LB, Vandenbussche B, Min
M, Olofsson G, Dominik C, Decin L, Barlow MJ, Brandeker A, Di Francesco J,
Glauser AM, Greaves J, Harvey PM, Holland WS, Ivison RJ, Liseau R, Pantin EE,
Pilbratt GL, Royer P, Sibthorpe B.

Author information: 
(1)Instituut voor Sterrenkunde, KU Leuven, Celestijnenlaan 200D, 3001 Leuven,
Belgium. bldevries.science@gmail.com

Some planetary systems harbour debris disks containing planetesimals such as
asteroids and comets. Collisions between such bodies produce small dust
particles, the spectral features of which reveal their composition and, hence,
that of their parent bodies. A measurement of the composition of olivine crystals
(Mg(2-2x)Fe(2x)SiO(4)) has been done for the protoplanetary disk HD 100546 (refs 
3, 4) and for olivine crystals in the warm inner parts of planetary systems. The 
latter compares well with the iron-rich olivine in asteroids (x ≈ 0.29). In the
cold outskirts of the β Pictoris system, an analogue to the young Solar System,
olivine crystals were detected but their composition remained undetermined,
leaving unknown how the composition of the bulk of Solar System cometary olivine 
grains compares with that of extrasolar comets. Here we report the detection of
the 69-micrometre-wavelength band of olivine crystals in the spectrum of
β Pictoris. Because the disk is optically thin, we can associate the crystals
with an extrasolar proto-Kuiper belt a distance of 15-45 astronomical units from 
the star (one astronomical unit is the Sun-Earth distance), determine their
magnesium-rich composition (x = 0.01 ± 0.001) and show that they make up
3.6 ± 1.0 per cent of the total dust mass. These values are strikingly similar to
those for the dust emitted by the most primitive comets in the Solar System, even
though β Pictoris is more massive and more luminous and has a different planetary
system architecture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11469 
PMID: 23038467 


261. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):71-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11490.

Two stellar-mass black holes in the globular cluster M22.

Strader J(1), Chomiuk L, Maccarone TJ, Miller-Jones JC, Seth AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
Michigan 48824, USA. strader@pa.msu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):46-7.

Hundreds of stellar-mass black holes probably form in a typical globular star
cluster, with all but one predicted to be ejected through dynamical interactions.
Some observational support for this idea is provided by the lack of
X-ray-emitting binary stars comprising one black hole and one other star
('black-hole/X-ray binaries') in Milky Way globular clusters, even though many
neutron-star/X-ray binaries are known. Although a few black holes have been seen 
in globular clusters around other galaxies, the masses of these cannot be
determined, and some may be intermediate-mass black holes that form through
exotic mechanisms. Here we report the presence of two flat-spectrum radio sources
in the Milky Way globular cluster M22, and we argue that these objects are black 
holes of stellar mass (each ∼10-20 times more massive than the Sun) that are
accreting matter. We find a high ratio of radio-to-X-ray flux for these black
holes, consistent with the larger predicted masses of black holes in globular
clusters compared to those outside. The identification of two black holes in one 
cluster shows that ejection of black holes is not as efficient as predicted by
most models, and we argue that M22 may contain a total population of ∼5-100 black
holes. The large core radius of M22 could arise from heating produced by the
black holes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11490 
PMID: 23038466 


262. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11462. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

Pregnancy imprints regulatory memory that sustains anergy to fetal antigen.

Rowe JH(1), Ertelt JM, Xin L, Way SS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Minnesota School of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):47-8.

Pregnancy is an intricately orchestrated process where immune effector cells with
fetal specificity are selectively silenced. This requires the sustained expansion
of immune-suppressive maternal FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells (T(reg) cells),
because even transient partial ablation triggers fetal-specific effector T-cell
activation and pregnancy loss. In turn, many idiopathic pregnancy complications
proposed to originate from disrupted fetal tolerance are associated with blunted 
maternal T(reg) expansion. Importantly, however, the antigen specificity and
cellular origin of maternal T(reg) cells that accumulate during gestation remain 
incompletely defined. Here we show that pregnancy selectively stimulates the
accumulation of maternal FOXP3(+) CD4 cells with fetal specificity using
tetramer-based enrichment that allows the identification of rare endogenous T
cells. Interestingly, after delivery, fetal-specific T(reg) cells persist at
elevated levels, maintain tolerance to pre-existing fetal antigen, and rapidly
re-accumulate during subsequent pregnancy. The accelerated expansion of T(reg)
cells during secondary pregnancy was driven almost exclusively by proliferation
of fetal-specific FOXP3(+) cells retained from prior pregnancy, whereas induced
FOXP3 expression and proliferation of pre-existing FOXP3(+) cells each contribute
to T(reg) expansion during primary pregnancy. Furthermore, fetal resorption in
secondary compared with primary pregnancy becomes more resilient to partial
maternal FOXP3(+) cell ablation. Thus, pregnancy imprints FOXP3(+) CD4 cells that
sustain protective regulatory memory to fetal antigen. We anticipate that these
findings will spark further investigation on maternal regulatory T-cell
specificity that unlocks new strategies for improving pregnancy outcomes and
novel approaches for therapeutically exploiting T(reg) cell memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11462 
PMCID: PMC3465465
PMID: 23023128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):55-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11450. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

A metagenome-wide association study of gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes.

Qin J(1), Li Y, Cai Z, Li S, Zhu J, Zhang F, Liang S, Zhang W, Guan Y, Shen D,
Peng Y, Zhang D, Jie Z, Wu W, Qin Y, Xue W, Li J, Han L, Lu D, Wu P, Dai Y, Sun
X, Li Z, Tang A, Zhong S, Li X, Chen W, Xu R, Wang M, Feng Q, Gong M, Yu J, Zhang
Y, Zhang M, Hansen T, Sanchez G, Raes J, Falony G, Okuda S, Almeida M,
LeChatelier E, Renault P, Pons N, Batto JM, Zhang Z, Chen H, Yang R, Zheng W, Li 
S, Yang H, Wang J, Ehrlich SD, Nielsen R, Pedersen O, Kristiansen K, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):44-6.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Nov;13(11):756.

Assessment and characterization of gut microbiota has become a major research
area in human disease, including type 2 diabetes, the most prevalent endocrine
disease worldwide. To carry out analysis on gut microbial content in patients
with type 2 diabetes, we developed a protocol for a metagenome-wide association
study (MGWAS) and undertook a two-stage MGWAS based on deep shotgun sequencing of
the gut microbial DNA from 345 Chinese individuals. We identified and validated
approximately 60,000 type-2-diabetes-associated markers and established the
concept of a metagenomic linkage group, enabling taxonomic species-level
analyses. MGWAS analysis showed that patients with type 2 diabetes were
characterized by a moderate degree of gut microbial dysbiosis, a decrease in the 
abundance of some universal butyrate-producing bacteria and an increase in
various opportunistic pathogens, as well as an enrichment of other microbial
functions conferring sulphate reduction and oxidative stress resistance. An
analysis of 23 additional individuals demonstrated that these gut microbial
markers might be useful for classifying type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11450 
PMID: 23023125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):61-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11412. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Comprehensive molecular portraits of human breast tumours.

Cancer Genome Atlas Network.

Collaborators: Koboldt DC, Fulton RS, McLellan MD, Schmidt H, Kalicki-Veizer J,
McMichael JF, Fulton LL, Dooling DJ, Ding L, Mardis ER, Wilson RK, Ally A,
Balasundaram M, Butterfield YS, Carlsen R, Carter C, Chu A, Chuah E, Chun HJ,
Coope RJ, Dhalla N, Guin R, Hirst C, Hirst M, Holt RA, Lee D, Li HI, Mayo M,
Moore RA, Mungall AJ, Pleasance E, Robertson A, Schein JE, Shafiei A,
Sipahimalani P, Slobodan JR, Stoll D, Tam A, Thiessen N, Varhol RJ, Wye N, Zeng
T, Zhao Y, Birol I, Jones SJ, Marra MA, Cherniack AD, Saksena G, Onofrio RC, Pho 
NH, Carter SL, Schumacher SE, Tabak B, Hernandez B, Gentry J, Nguyen H, Crenshaw 
A, Ardlie K, Beroukhim R, Winckler W, Getz G, Gabriel SB, Meyerson M, Chin L,
Park PJ, Kucherlapati R, Hoadley KA, Auman J, Fan C, Turman YJ, Shi Y, Li L,
Topal MD, He X, Chao HH, Prat A, Silva GO, Iglesia MD, Zhao W, Usary J, Berg JS, 
Adams M, Booker J, Wu J, Gulabani A, Bodenheimer T, Hoyle AP, Simons JV, Soloway 
MG, Mose LE, Jefferys SR, Balu S, Parker JS, Hayes D, Perou CM, Malik S, Mahurkar
S, Shen H, Weisenberger DJ, Triche T Jr, Lai PH, Bootwalla MS, Maglinte DT,
Berman BP, Van Den Berg DJ, Baylin SB, Laird PW, Creighton CJ, Donehower LA, Getz
G, Noble M, Voet D, Saksena G, Gehlenborg N, DiCara D, Zhang J, Zhang H, Wu CJ,
Liu SY, Lawrence MS, Zou L, Sivachenko A, Lin P, Stojanov P, Jing R, Cho J, Sinha
R, Park RW, Nazaire MD, Robinson J, Thorvaldsdottir H, Mesirov J, Park PJ, Chin
L, Reynolds S, Kreisberg RB, Bernard B, Bressler R, Erkkila T, Lin J, Thorsson V,
Zhang W, Shmulevich I, Ciriello G, Weinhold N, Schultz N, Gao J, Cerami E, Gross 
B, Jacobsen A, Sinha R, Aksoy B, Antipin Y, Reva B, Shen R, Taylor BS, Ladanyi M,
Sander C, Anur P, Spellman PT, Lu Y, Liu W, Verhaak RR, Mills GB, Akbani R, Zhang
N, Broom BM, Casasent TD, Wakefield C, Unruh AK, Baggerly K, Coombes K, Weinstein
JN, Haussler D, Benz CC, Stuart JM, Benz SC, Zhu J, Szeto CC, Scott GK, Yau C,
Paull EO, Carlin D, Wong C, Sokolov A, Thusberg J, Mooney S, Ng S, Goldstein TC, 
Ellrott K, Grifford M, Wilks C, Ma S, Craft B, Yan C, Hu Y, Meerzaman D,
Gastier-Foster JM, Bowen J, Ramirez NC, Black AD, Pyatt RE, White P, Zmuda EJ,
Frick J, Lichtenberg TM, Brookens R, George MM, Gerken MA, Harper HA, Leraas KM, 
Wise LJ, Tabler TR, McAllister C, Barr T, Hart-Kothari M, Tarvin K, Saller C,
Sandusky G, Mitchell C, Iacocca MV, Brown J, Rabeno B, Czerwinski C, Petrelli N, 
Dolzhansky O, Abramov M, Voronina O, Potapova O, Marks JR, Suchorska WM, Murawa
D, Kycler W, Ibbs M, Korski K, Spychała A, Murawa P, Brzeziński JJ, Perz H,
Łaźniak R, Teresiak M, Tatka H, Leporowska E, Bogusz-Czerniewicz M, Malicki J,
Mackiewicz A, Wiznerowicz M, Le XV, Kohl B, Nguyen VT, Thorp R, Nguyen VB,
Sussman H, Bui DP, Hajek R, Nguyen PH, Tran VT, Huynh QT, Khan KZ, Penny R,
Mallery D, Curley E, Shelton C, Yena P, Ingle JN, Couch FJ, Lingle WL, King TA,
Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Mills GB, Dyer MD, Liu S, Meng X, Patangan M, Waldman F,
Stöppler H, Rathmell W, Thorne L, Huang M, Boice L, Hill A, Morrison C, Gaudioso 
C, Bshara W, Daily K, Egea SC, Pegram M, Gomez-Fernandez C, Dhir R, Bhargava R,
Brufsky A, Shriver CD, Hooke JA, Campbell JL, Mural RJ, Hu H, Somiari S, Larson
C, Deyarmin B, Kvecher L, Kovatich AJ, Ellis MJ, King TA, Hu H, Couch FJ, Mural
RJ, Stricker T, White K, Olopade O, Ingle JN, Luo C, Chen Y, Marks JR, Waldman F,
Wiznerowicz M, Bose R, Chang LW, Beck AH, Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Pihl T, Jensen M,
Sfeir R, Kahn A, Chu A, Kothiyal P, Wang Z, Snyder E, Pontius J, Ayala B, Backus 
M, Walton J, Baboud J, Berton D, Nicholls M, Srinivasan D, Raman R, Girshik S,
Kigonya P, Alonso S, Sanbhadti R, Barletta S, Pot D, Sheth M, Demchok JA, Shaw
KR, Yang L, Eley G, Ferguson ML, Tarnuzzer RW, Zhang J, Dillon LA, Buetow K,
Fielding P, Ozenberger BA, Guyer MS, Sofia HJ, Palchik JD.

We analysed primary breast cancers by genomic DNA copy number arrays, DNA
methylation, exome sequencing, messenger RNA arrays, microRNA sequencing and
reverse-phase protein arrays. Our ability to integrate information across
platforms provided key insights into previously defined gene expression subtypes 
and demonstrated the existence of four main breast cancer classes when combining 
data from five platforms, each of which shows significant molecular
heterogeneity. Somatic mutations in only three genes (TP53, PIK3CA and GATA3)
occurred at >10% incidence across all breast cancers; however, there were
numerous subtype-associated and novel gene mutations including the enrichment of 
specific mutations in GATA3, PIK3CA and MAP3K1 with the luminal A subtype. We
identified two novel protein-expression-defined subgroups, possibly produced by
stromal/microenvironmental elements, and integrated analyses identified specific 
signalling pathways dominant in each molecular subtype including a
HER2/phosphorylated HER2/EGFR/phosphorylated EGFR signature within the
HER2-enriched expression subtype. Comparison of basal-like breast tumours with
high-grade serous ovarian tumours showed many molecular commonalities, indicating
a related aetiology and similar therapeutic opportunities. The biological finding
of the four main breast cancer subtypes caused by different subsets of genetic
and epigenetic abnormalities raises the hypothesis that much of the clinically
observable plasticity and heterogeneity occurs within, and not across, these
major biological subtypes of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11412 
PMCID: PMC3465532
PMID: 23000897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):49-54. doi: 10.1038/nature11413. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

The oyster genome reveals stress adaptation and complexity of shell formation.

Zhang G(1), Fang X, Guo X, Li L, Luo R, Xu F, Yang P, Zhang L, Wang X, Qi H,
Xiong Z, Que H, Xie Y, Holland PW, Paps J, Zhu Y, Wu F, Chen Y, Wang J, Peng C,
Meng J, Yang L, Liu J, Wen B, Zhang N, Huang Z, Zhu Q, Feng Y, Mount A, Hedgecock
D, Xu Z, Liu Y, Domazet-Lošo T, Du Y, Sun X, Zhang S, Liu B, Cheng P, Jiang X, Li
J, Fan D, Wang W, Fu W, Wang T, Wang B, Zhang J, Peng Z, Li Y, Li N, Wang J, Chen
M, He Y, Tan F, Song X, Zheng Q, Huang R, Yang H, Du X, Chen L, Yang M, Gaffney
PM, Wang S, Luo L, She Z, Ming Y, Huang W, Zhang S, Huang B, Zhang Y, Qu T, Ni P,
Miao G, Wang J, Wang Q, Steinberg CE, Wang H, Li N, Qian L, Zhang G, Li Y, Yang
H, Liu X, Wang J, Yin Y, Wang J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Oceanology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266071, China.

The Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas belongs to one of the most species-rich but 
genomically poorly explored phyla, the Mollusca. Here we report the sequencing
and assembly of the oyster genome using short reads and a fosmid-pooling
strategy, along with transcriptomes of development and stress response and the
proteome of the shell. The oyster genome is highly polymorphic and rich in
repetitive sequences, with some transposable elements still actively shaping
variation. Transcriptome studies reveal an extensive set of genes responding to
environmental stress. The expansion of genes coding for heat shock protein 70 and
inhibitors of apoptosis is probably central to the oyster's adaptation to sessile
life in the highly stressful intertidal zone. Our analyses also show that shell
formation in molluscs is more complex than currently understood and involves
extensive participation of cells and their exosomes. The oyster genome sequence
fills a void in our understanding of the Lophotrochozoa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11413 
PMID: 22992520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature11394. Epub 2012 Sep 5.

A transcriptomic hourglass in plant embryogenesis.

Quint M(1), Drost HG, Gabel A, Ullrich KK, Bönn M, Grosse I.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry, Department of Molecular Signal
Processing, Weinberg 3, 06120 Halle (Saale), Germany. mquint@ipb-halle.de

Animal and plant development starts with a constituting phase called
embryogenesis, which evolved independently in both lineages. Comparative anatomy 
of vertebrate development--based on the Meckel-Serrès law and von Baer's laws of 
embryology from the early nineteenth century--shows that embryos from various
taxa appear different in early stages, converge to a similar form during
mid-embryogenesis, and again diverge in later stages. This morphogenetic series
is known as the embryonic 'hourglass', and its bottleneck of high conservation in
mid-embryogenesis is referred to as the phylotypic stage. Recent analyses in
zebrafish and Drosophila embryos provided convincing molecular support for the
hourglass model, because during the phylotypic stage the transcriptome was
dominated by ancient genes and global gene expression profiles were reported to
be most conserved. Although extensively explored in animals, an embryonic
hourglass has not been reported in plants, which represent the second major
kingdom in the tree of life that evolved embryogenesis. Here we provide
phylotranscriptomic evidence for a molecular embryonic hourglass in Arabidopsis
thaliana, using two complementary approaches. This is particularly significant
because the possible absence of an hourglass based on morphological features in
plants suggests that morphological and molecular patterns might be uncoupled.
Together with the reported developmental hourglass patterns in animals, these
findings indicate convergent evolution of the molecular hourglass and a conserved
logic of embryogenesis across kingdoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11394 
PMID: 22951968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):121-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11402. Epub 2012 Sep 2.

Structural basis for RNA-duplex recognition and unwinding by the DEAD-box
helicase Mss116p.

Mallam AL(1), Del Campo M, Gilman B, Sidote DJ, Lambowitz AM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Department of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

DEAD-box proteins are the largest family of nucleic acid helicases, and are
crucial to RNA metabolism throughout all domains of life. They contain a
conserved 'helicase core' of two RecA-like domains (domains (D)1 and D2), which
uses ATP to catalyse the unwinding of short RNA duplexes by non-processive, local
strand separation. This mode of action differs from that of translocating
helicases and allows DEAD-box proteins to remodel large RNAs and RNA-protein
complexes without globally disrupting RNA structure. However, the structural
basis for this distinctive mode of RNA unwinding remains unclear. Here,
structural, biochemical and genetic analyses of the yeast DEAD-box protein
Mss116p indicate that the helicase core domains have modular functions that
enable a novel mechanism for RNA-duplex recognition and unwinding. By
investigating D1 and D2 individually and together, we find that D1 acts as an
ATP-binding domain and D2 functions as an RNA-duplex recognition domain. D2
contains a nucleic-acid-binding pocket that is formed by conserved DEAD-box
protein sequence motifs and accommodates A-form but not B-form duplexes,
providing a basis for RNA substrate specificity. Upon a conformational change in 
which the two core domains join to form a 'closed state' with an ATPase active
site, conserved motifs in D1 promote the unwinding of duplex substrates bound to 
D2 by excluding one RNA strand and bending the other. Our results provide a
comprehensive structural model for how DEAD-box proteins recognize and unwind RNA
duplexes. This model explains key features of DEAD-box protein function and
affords a new perspective on how the evolutionarily related cores of other RNA
and DNA helicases diverged to use different mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11402 
PMCID: PMC3465527
PMID: 22940866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):126-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11403. Epub 2012 Sep 2.

Alternating-access mechanism in conformationally asymmetric trimers of the
betaine transporter BetP.

Perez C(1), Koshy C, Yildiz O, Ziegler C.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute of Biophysics, Department of Structural Biology, D-60438 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Betaine and Na(+) symport has been extensively studied in the osmotically
regulated transporter BetP from Corynebacterium glutamicum, a member of the
betaine/choline/carnitine transporter family, which shares the conserved
LeuT-like fold of two inverted structural repeats. BetP adjusts its transport
activity by sensing the cytoplasmic K(+) concentration as a measure for
hyperosmotic stress via the osmosensing carboxy-terminal domain. BetP needs to be
in a trimeric state for communication between individual protomers through
several intratrimeric interaction sites. Recently, crystal structures of
inward-facing BetP trimers have contributed to our understanding of activity
regulation on a molecular level. Here we report new crystal structures, which
reveal two conformationally asymmetric BetP trimers, capturing among them three
distinct transport states. We observe a total of four new conformations at once: 
an outward-open apo and an outward-occluded apo state, and two closed transition 
states--one in complex with betaine and one substrate-free. On the basis of these
new structures, we identified local and global conformational changes in BetP
that underlie the molecular transport mechanism, which partially resemble
structural changes observed in other sodium-coupled LeuT-like fold transporters, 
but show differences we attribute to the osmolytic nature of betaine, the
exclusive substrate specificity and the regulatory properties of BetP.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11403 
PMID: 22940865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11416. Epub 2012 Aug 26.

Paramutation in Drosophila linked to emergence of a piRNA-producing locus.

de Vanssay A(1), Bougé AL, Boivin A, Hermant C, Teysset L, Delmarre V,
Antoniewski C, Ronsseray S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Biologie du Développement, UMR7622, CNRS-Université Pierre et
Marie Curie, 9 quai Saint Bernard, 75005 Paris, France.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2012 Oct 16;23(4):678-9.

A paramutation is an epigenetic interaction between two alleles of a locus,
through which one allele induces a heritable modification in the other allele
without modifying the DNA sequence. The paramutated allele itself becomes
paramutagenic, that is, capable of epigenetically converting a new paramutable
allele. Here we describe a case of paramutation in animals showing long-term
transmission over generations. We previously characterized a homology-dependent
silencing mechanism referred to as the trans-silencing effect (TSE), involved in 
P-transposable-element repression in the germ line. We now show that clusters of 
P-element-derived transgenes that induce strong TSE can convert other homologous 
transgene clusters incapable of TSE into strong silencers, which transmit the
acquired silencing capacity through 50 generations. The paramutation occurs
without any need for chromosome pairing between the paramutagenic and the
paramutated loci, and is mediated by maternal inheritance of cytoplasm carrying
Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) homologous to the transgenes. The repression
capacity of the paramutated locus is abolished by a loss-of-function mutation of 
the aubergine gene involved in piRNA biogenesis, but not by a loss-of-function
mutation of the Dicer-2 gene involved in siRNA production. The paramutated
cluster, previously producing barely detectable levels of piRNAs, is converted
into a stable, strong piRNA-producing locus by the paramutation and becomes fully
paramutagenic itself. Our work provides a genetic model for the emergence of
piRNA loci, as well as for RNA-mediated trans-generational repression of
transposable elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11416 
PMID: 22922650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):107-11. doi: 10.1038/nature11351. Epub 2012 Aug 19.

Rapid induction of inflammatory lipid mediators by the inflammasome in vivo.

von Moltke J(1), Trinidad NJ, Moayeri M, Kintzer AF, Wang SB, van Rooijen N,
Brown CR, Krantz BA, Leppla SH, Gronert K, Vance RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Division of Immunology and
Pathogenesis, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

Detection of microbial products by host inflammasomes is an important mechanism
of innate immune surveillance. Inflammasomes activate the caspase-1 (CASP1)
protease, which processes the cytokines interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18, and
initiates a lytic host cell death called pyroptosis. To identify novel CASP1
functions in vivo, we devised a strategy for cytosolic delivery of bacterial
flagellin, a specific ligand for the NAIP5 (NLR family, apoptosis inhibitory
protein 5)/NLRC4 (NLR family, CARD-domain-containing 4) inflammasome. Here we
show that systemic inflammasome activation by flagellin leads to a loss of
vascular fluid into the intestine and peritoneal cavity, resulting in rapid (less
than 30 min) death in mice. This unexpected response depends on the inflammasome 
components NAIP5, NLRC4 and CASP1, but is independent of the production of IL-1β 
or IL-18. Instead, inflammasome activation results, within minutes, in an
'eicosanoid storm'--a pathological release of signalling lipids, including
prostaglandins and leukotrienes, that rapidly initiate inflammation and vascular 
fluid loss. Mice deficient in cyclooxygenase-1, a critical enzyme in
prostaglandin biosynthesis, are resistant to these rapid pathological effects of 
systemic inflammasome activation by either flagellin or anthrax lethal toxin.
Inflammasome-dependent biosynthesis of eicosanoids is mediated by the activation 
of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) in resident peritoneal macrophages, which are
specifically primed for the production of eicosanoids by high expression of
eicosanoid biosynthetic enzymes. Our results therefore identify eicosanoids as a 
previously unrecognized cell-type-specific signalling output of the inflammasome 
with marked physiological consequences in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11351 
PMCID: PMC3465483
PMID: 22902502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 2012 Oct 4;490(7418):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11378. Epub 2012 Aug 12.

Burkitt lymphoma pathogenesis and therapeutic targets from structural and
functional genomics.

Schmitz R(1), Young RM, Ceribelli M, Jhavar S, Xiao W, Zhang M, Wright G, Shaffer
AL, Hodson DJ, Buras E, Liu X, Powell J, Yang Y, Xu W, Zhao H, Kohlhammer H,
Rosenwald A, Kluin P, Müller-Hermelink HK, Ott G, Gascoyne RD, Connors JM, Rimsza
LM, Campo E, Jaffe ES, Delabie J, Smeland EB, Ogwang MD, Reynolds SJ, Fisher RI, 
Braziel RM, Tubbs RR, Cook JR, Weisenburger DD, Chan WC, Pittaluga S, Wilson W,
Waldmann TA, Rowe M, Mbulaiteye SM, Rickinson AB, Staudt LM.

Author information: 
(1)Metabolism Branch Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, NIH, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Oct;9(10):551.

Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) can often be cured by intensive chemotherapy, but the
toxicity of such therapy precludes its use in the elderly and in patients with
endemic BL in developing countries, necessitating new strategies. The normal
germinal centre B cell is the presumed cell of origin for both BL and diffuse
large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), yet gene expression analysis suggests that these
malignancies may use different oncogenic pathways. BL is subdivided into a
sporadic subtype that is diagnosed in developed countries, the
Epstein-Barr-virus-associated endemic subtype, and an HIV-associated subtype, but
it is unclear whether these subtypes use similar or divergent oncogenic
mechanisms. Here we used high-throughput RNA sequencing and RNA interference
screening to discover essential regulatory pathways in BL that cooperate with
MYC, the defining oncogene of this cancer. In 70% of sporadic BL cases, mutations
affecting the transcription factor TCF3 (E2A) or its negative regulator ID3
fostered TCF3 dependency. TCF3 activated the pro-survival
phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase pathway in BL, in part by augmenting tonic
B-cell receptor signalling. In 38% of sporadic BL cases, oncogenic CCND3
mutations produced highly stable cyclin D3 isoforms that drive cell cycle
progression. These findings suggest opportunities to improve therapy for patients
with BL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11378 
PMCID: PMC3609867
PMID: 22885699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):561-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11499.

Skin shedding and tissue regeneration in African spiny mice (Acomys).

Seifert AW(1), Kiama SG, Seifert MG, Goheen JR, Palmer TM, Maden M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32610, USA.
seifert@ufl.edu

Comment in
    Regen Med. 2013 Jan;8(1):17-8.
    Nature. 2012 Nov 22;491(7425):527.
    Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):508-10.

Evolutionary modification has produced a spectrum of animal defence traits to
escape predation, including the ability to autotomize body parts to elude
capture. After autotomy, the missing part is either replaced through regeneration
(for example, in urodeles, lizards, arthropods and crustaceans) or permanently
lost (such as in mammals). Although most autotomy involves the loss of appendages
(legs, chelipeds, antennae or tails, for example), skin autotomy can occur in
certain taxa of scincid and gekkonid lizards. Here we report the first
demonstration of skin autotomy in Mammalia (African spiny mice, Acomys).
Mechanical testing showed a propensity for skin to tear under very low tension
and the absence of a fracture plane. After skin loss, rapid wound contraction was
followed by hair follicle regeneration in dorsal skin wounds. Notably, we found
that regenerative capacity in Acomys was extended to ear holes, where the mice
exhibited complete regeneration of hair follicles, sebaceous glands, dermis and
cartilage. Salamanders capable of limb regeneration form a blastema (a mass of
lineage-restricted progenitor cells) after limb loss, and our findings suggest
that ear tissue regeneration in Acomys may proceed through the assembly of a
similar structure. This study underscores the importance of investigating
regenerative phenomena outside of conventional model organisms, and suggests that
mammals may retain a higher capacity for regeneration than was previously
believed. As re-emergent interest in regenerative medicine seeks to isolate
molecular pathways controlling tissue regeneration in mammals, Acomys may prove
useful in identifying mechanisms to promote regeneration in lieu of fibrosis and 
scarring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11499 
PMCID: PMC3480082
PMID: 23018966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):550-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11440.

Response of salt-marsh carbon accumulation to climate change.

Kirwan ML(1), Mudd SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Virginia, PO Box 400123,
Charlottesville, Virginia 24151, USA. mlk4n@virginia.edu

About half of annual marine carbon burial takes place in shallow water ecosystems
where geomorphic and ecological stability is driven by interactions between the
flow of water, vegetation growth and sediment transport. Although the sensitivity
of terrestrial and deep marine carbon pools to climate change has been studied
for decades, there is little understanding of how coastal carbon accumulation
rates will change and potentially feed back on climate. Here we develop a
numerical model of salt marsh evolution, informed by recent measurements of
productivity and decomposition, and demonstrate that competition between mineral 
sediment deposition and organic-matter accumulation determines the net impact of 
climate change on carbon accumulation in intertidal wetlands. We find that the
direct impact of warming on soil carbon accumulation rates is more subtle than
the impact of warming-driven sea level rise, although the impact of warming
increases with increasing rates of sea level rise. Our simulations suggest that
the net impact of climate change will be to increase carbon burial rates in the
first half of the twenty-first century, but that carbon-climate feedbacks are
likely to diminish over time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11440 
PMID: 23018965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):546-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11445.

Ocean oxygenation in the wake of the Marinoan glaciation.

Sahoo SK(1), Planavsky NJ, Kendall B, Wang X, Shi X, Scott C, Anbar AD, Lyons TW,
Jiang G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geoscience, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada 89154, USA.

Metazoans are likely to have their roots in the Cryogenian period, but there is a
marked increase in the appearance of novel animal and algae fossils shortly after
the termination of the late Cryogenian (Marinoan) glaciation about 635 million
years ago. It has been suggested that an oxygenation event in the wake of the
severe Marinoan glaciation was the driving factor behind this early
diversification of metazoans and the shift in ecosystem complexity. But there is 
little evidence for an increase in oceanic or atmospheric oxygen following the
Marinoan glaciation, or for a direct link between early animal evolution and
redox conditions in general. Models linking trends in early biological evolution 
to shifts in Earth system processes thus remain controversial. Here we report
geochemical data from early Ediacaran organic-rich black shales (∼635-630 million
years old) of the basal Doushantuo Formation in South China. High enrichments of 
molybdenum and vanadium and low pyrite sulphur isotope values (Δ(34)S values ≥65 
per mil) in these shales record expansion of the oceanic inventory of
redox-sensitive metals and the growth of the marine sulphate reservoir in
response to a widely oxygenated ocean. The data provide evidence for an early
Ediacaran oxygenation event, which pre-dates the previous estimates for
post-Marinoan oxygenation by more than 50 million years. Our findings seem to
support a link between the most severe glaciations in Earth's history, the
oxygenation of the Earth's surface environments, and the earliest diversification
of animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11445 
PMID: 23018964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):533-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11447.

No surviving evolved companions of the progenitor of SN 1006.

González Hernández JI(1), Ruiz-Lapuente P, Tabernero HM, Montes D, Canal R,
Méndez J, Bedin LR.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, E-38205 La Laguna, Tenerife, Spain.
jonay@iac.es

Type Ia supernovae are thought to occur when a white dwarf made of carbon and
oxygen accretes sufficient mass to trigger a thermonuclear explosion. The
accretion could be slow, from an unevolved (main-sequence) or evolved (subgiant
or giant) star (the single-degenerate channel), or rapid, as the primary star
breaks up a smaller orbiting white dwarf (the double-degenerate channel). A
companion star will survive the explosion only in the single-degenerate channel. 
Both channels might contribute to the production of type Ia supernovae, but the
relative proportions of their contributions remain a fundamental puzzle in
astronomy. Previous searches for remnant companions have revealed one possible
case for SN 1572 (refs 8, 9), although that has been questioned. More recently,
observations have restricted surviving companions to be small, main-sequence
stars, ruling out giant companions but still allowing the single-degenerate
channel. Here we report the results of a search for surviving companions of the
progenitor of SN 1006 (ref. 14). None of the stars within 4 arc minutes of the
apparent site of the explosion is associated with the supernova remnant, and we
can firmly exclude all giant and subgiant stars from being companions of the
progenitor. In combination with previous results, our findings indicate that
fewer than 20 per cent of type Ia supernovae occur through the single-degenerate 
channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11447 
PMID: 23018963 


276. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):513-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11514. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

Genomic analysis of a key innovation in an experimental Escherichia coli
population.

Blount ZD(1), Barrick JE, Davidson CJ, Lenski RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA. blountza@msu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):504-5.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Nov;10(11):729.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Nov;13(11):757.

Evolutionary novelties have been important in the history of life, but their
origins are usually difficult to examine in detail. We previously described the
evolution of a novel trait, aerobic citrate utilization (Cit(+)), in an
experimental population of Escherichia coli. Here we analyse genome sequences to 
investigate the history and genetic basis of this trait. At least three distinct 
clades coexisted for more than 10,000 generations before its emergence. The
Cit(+) trait originated in one clade by a tandem duplication that captured an
aerobically expressed promoter for the expression of a previously silent citrate 
transporter. The clades varied in their propensity to evolve this novel trait,
although genotypes able to do so existed in all three clades, implying that
multiple potentiating mutations arose during the population's history. Our
findings illustrate the importance of promoter capture and altered gene
regulation in mediating the exaptation events that often underlie evolutionary
innovations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11514 
PMCID: PMC3461117
PMID: 22992527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):541-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11449. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

A single-atom electron spin qubit in silicon.

Pla JJ(1), Tan KY, Dehollain JP, Lim WH, Morton JJ, Jamieson DN, Dzurak AS,
Morello A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology, School of
Electrical Engineering & Telecommunications, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia. jarryd@unsw.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):505-7.

A single atom is the prototypical quantum system, and a natural candidate for a
quantum bit, or qubit--the elementary unit of a quantum computer. Atoms have been
successfully used to store and process quantum information in electromagnetic
traps, as well as in diamond through the use of the nitrogen-vacancy-centre point
defect. Solid-state electrical devices possess great potential to scale up such
demonstrations from few-qubit control to larger-scale quantum processors.
Coherent control of spin qubits has been achieved in lithographically defined
double quantum dots in both GaAs (refs 3-5) and Si (ref. 6). However, it is a
formidable challenge to combine the electrical measurement capabilities of
engineered nanostructures with the benefits inherent in atomic spin qubits. Here 
we demonstrate the coherent manipulation of an individual electron spin qubit
bound to a phosphorus donor atom in natural silicon, measured electrically via
single-shot read-out. We use electron spin resonance to drive Rabi oscillations, 
and a Hahn echo pulse sequence reveals a spin coherence time exceeding 200 µs.
This time should be even longer in isotopically enriched (28)Si samples. Combined
with a device architecture that is compatible with modern integrated circuit
technology, the electron spin of a single phosphorus atom in silicon should be an
excellent platform on which to build a scalable quantum computer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11449 
PMID: 22992519 


278. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):526-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11414. Epub 2012 Sep 16.

Cross-neutralization of influenza A viruses mediated by a single antibody loop.

Ekiert DC(1), Kashyap AK, Steel J, Rubrum A, Bhabha G, Khayat R, Lee JH, Dillon
MA, O'Neil RE, Faynboym AM, Horowitz M, Horowitz L, Ward AB, Palese P, Webby R,
Lerner RA, Bhatt RR, Wilson IA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Immune recognition of protein antigens relies on the combined interaction of
multiple antibody loops, which provide a fairly large footprint and constrain the
size and shape of protein surfaces that can be targeted. Single protein loops can
mediate extremely high-affinity binding, but it is unclear whether such a
mechanism is available to antibodies. Here we report the isolation and
characterization of an antibody called C05, which neutralizes strains from
multiple subtypes of influenza A virus, including H1, H2 and H3. X-ray and
electron microscopy structures show that C05 recognizes conserved elements of the
receptor-binding site on the haemagglutinin surface glycoprotein. Recognition of 
the haemagglutinin receptor-binding site is dominated by a single heavy-chain
complementarity-determining region 3 loop, with minor contacts from heavy-chain
complementarity-determining region 1, and is sufficient to achieve nanomolar
binding with a minimal footprint. Thus, binding predominantly with a single loop 
can allow antibodies to target small, conserved functional sites on otherwise
hypervariable antigens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11414 
PMCID: PMC3538848
PMID: 22982990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):537-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11459. Epub 2012 Sep 12.

Popularity versus similarity in growing networks.

Papadopoulos F(1), Kitsak M, Serrano MÁ, Boguñá M, Krioukov D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering and Informatics,
Cyprus University of Technology, 33 Saripolou Street, 3036 Limassol, Cyprus.
f.papadopoulos@cut.ac.cy

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):507-8.

The principle that 'popularity is attractive' underlies preferential attachment, 
which is a common explanation for the emergence of scaling in growing networks.
If new connections are made preferentially to more popular nodes, then the
resulting distribution of the number of connections possessed by nodes follows
power laws, as observed in many real networks. Preferential attachment has been
directly validated for some real networks (including the Internet), and can be a 
consequence of different underlying processes based on node fitness, ranking,
optimization, random walks or duplication. Here we show that popularity is just
one dimension of attractiveness; another dimension is similarity. We develop a
framework in which new connections optimize certain trade-offs between popularity
and similarity, instead of simply preferring popular nodes. The framework has a
geometric interpretation in which popularity preference emerges from local
optimization. As opposed to preferential attachment, our optimization framework
accurately describes the large-scale evolution of technological (the Internet),
social (trust relationships between people) and biological (Escherichia coli
metabolic) networks, predicting the probability of new links with high precision.
The framework that we have developed can thus be used for predicting new links in
evolving networks, and provides a different perspective on preferential
attachment as an emergent phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11459 
PMID: 22972194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):519-25. doi: 10.1038/nature11404. Epub 2012 Sep 9.

Comprehensive genomic characterization of squamous cell lung cancers.

Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network(1).

Collaborators: Hammerman PS, Lawrence MS, Voet D, Jing R, Cibulskis K, Sivachenko
A, Stojanov P, McKenna A, Lander ES, Gabriel S, Getz G, Sougnez C, Imielinski M, 
Helman E, Hernandez B, Pho NH, Meyerson M, Chu A, Chun HJ, Mungall AJ, Pleasance 
E, Robertson A, Sipahimalani P, Stoll D, Balasundaram M, Birol I, Butterfield YS,
Chuah E, Coope RJ, Corbett R, Dhalla N, Guin R, He A, Hirst C, Hirst M, Holt RA, 
Lee D, Li HI, Mayo M, Moore RA, Mungall K, Nip KM, Olshen A, Schein JE, Slobodan 
JR, Tam A, Thiessen N, Varhol R, Zeng T, Zhao Y, Jones SJ, Marra MA, Saksena G,
Cherniack AD, Schumacher SE, Tabak B, Carter SL, Pho NH, Nguyen H, Onofrio RC,
Crenshaw A, Ardlie K, Beroukhim R, Winckler W, Hammerman PS, Getz G, Meyerson M, 
Protopopov A, Zhang J, Hadjipanayis A, Lee S, Xi R, Yang L, Ren X, Zhang H,
Shukla S, Chen PC, Haseley P, Lee E, Chin L, Park PJ, Kucherlapati R, Socci ND,
Liang Y, Schultz N, Borsu L, Lash AE, Viale A, Sander C, Ladanyi M, Auman T,
Hoadley KA, Wilkerson MD, Shi Y, Liquori C, Meng S, Li L, Turman YJ, Topal MD,
Tan D, Waring S, Buda E, Walsh J, Jones CD, Mieczkowski PA, Singh D, Wu J,
Gulabani A, Dolina P, Bodenheimer T, Hoyle AP, Simons JV, Soloway MG, Mose LE,
Jefferys SR, Balu S, O'Connor BD, Prins JF, Liu J, Chiang DY, Hayes D, Perou CM, 
Cope L, Danilova L, Weisenberger DJ, Maglinte DT, Pan F, Van Den Berg DJ, Triche 
T Jr, Herman JG, Baylin SB, Laird PW, Getz G, Noble M, Voet D, Saksena G,
Gehlenborg N, DiCara D, Zhang J, Zhang H, Wu CJ, Liu SY, Lawrence MS, Zou L,
Sivachenko A, Lin P, Stojanov P, Jing R, Cho J, Nazaire MD, Robinson J,
Thorvaldsdottir H, Mesirov J, Park PJ, Chin L, Schultz N, Sinha R, Ciriello G,
Cerami E, Gross B, Jacobsen A, Gao J, Aksoy B, Weinhold N, Ramirez R, Taylor BS, 
Antipin Y, Reva B, Shen R, Mo Q, Seshan V, Paik PK, Ladanyi M, Sander C, Akbani
R, Zhang N, Broom BM, Casasent T, Unruh A, Wakefield C, Cason R, Baggerly KA,
Weinstein JN, Haussler D, Benz CC, Stuart JM, Zhu J, Szeto C, Scott GK, Yau C, Ng
S, Goldstein T, Waltman P, Sokolov A, Ellrott K, Collisson EA, Zerbino D, Wilks
C, Ma S, Craft B, Wilkerson MD, Auman J, Hoadley KA, Du Y, Cabanski C, Walter V, 
Singh D, Wu J, Gulabani A, Bodenheimer T, Hoyle AP, Simons JV, Soloway MG, Mose
LE, Jefferys SR, Balu S, Marron J, Liu Y, Wang K, Liu J, Prins JF, Hayes D, Perou
CM, Creighton CJ, Zhang Y, Travis WD, Rekhtman N, Yi J, Aubry MC, Cheney R, Dacic
S, Flieder D, Funkhouser W, Illei P, Myers J, Tsao MS, Penny R, Mallery D,
Shelton T, Hatfield M, Morris S, Yena P, Shelton C, Sherman M, Paulauskis J,
Meyerson M, Baylin SB, Govindan R, Akbani R, Azodo I, Beer D, Bose R, Byers LA,
Carbone D, Chang LW, Chiang D, Chu A, Chun E, Collisson E, Cope L, Creighton CJ, 
Danilova L, Ding L, Getz G, Hammerman PS, Hayes D, Hernandez B, Herman JG,
Heymach J, Ida C, Imielinski M, Johnson B, Jurisica I, Kaufman J, Kosari F,
Kucherlapati R, Kwiatkowski D, Ladanyi M, Lawrence MS, Maher CA, Mungall A, Ng S,
Pao W, Peifer M, Penny R, Robertson G, Rusch V, Sander C, Schultz N, Shen R,
Siegfried J, Sinha R, Sivachenko A, Sougnez C, Stoll D, Stuart J, Thomas RK,
Tomaszek S, Tsao MS, Travis WD, Vaske C, Weinstein JN, Weisenberger D, Wheeler D,
Wigle DA, Wilkerson MD, Wilks C, Yang P, Zhang JJ, Jensen MA, Sfeir R, Kahn AB,
Chu AL, Kothiyal P, Wang Z, Snyder EE, Pontius J, Pihl TD, Ayala B, Backus M,
Walton J, Baboud J, Berton DL, Nicholls MC, Srinivasan D, Raman R, Girshik S,
Kigonya PA, Alonso S, Sanbhadti RN, Barletta SP, Greene JM, Pot DA, Tsao MS,
Bandarchi-Chamkhaleh B, Boyd J, Weaver J, Wigle DA, Azodo IA, Tomaszek SC, Aubry 
MC, Ida CM, Yang P, Kosari F, Brock MV, Rodgers K, Rutledge M, Brown T, Lee B,
Shin J, Trusty D, Dhir R, Siegfried JM, Potapova O, Fedosenko KV,
Nemirovich-Danchenko E, Rusch V, Zakowski M, Iacocca MV, Brown J, Rabeno B,
Czerwinski C, Petrelli N, Fan Z, Todaro N, Eckman J, Myers J, Rathmell W, Thorne 
LB, Huang M, Boice L, Hill A, Penny R, Mallery D, Curley E, Shelton C, Yena P,
Morrison C, Gaudioso C, Bartlett JM, Kodeeswaran S, Zanke B, Sekhon H, David K,
Juhl H, Van Le X, Kohl B, Thorp R, Nguyen VT, Nguyen VB, Sussman H, Phu BD, Hajek
R, Nguyen PH, Khan KZ, Muley T, Shaw KR, Sheth M, Yang L, Buetow K, Davidsen T,
Demchok JA, Eley G, Ferguson M, Dillon LA, Schaefer C, Guyer MS, Ozenberger BA,
Palchik JD, Peterson J, Sofia HJ, Thomson E.

Author information: 
(1)Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):288. Rogers, Kristen [corrected to Rodgers,
Kristen].

Lung squamous cell carcinoma is a common type of lung cancer, causing
approximately 400,000 deaths per year worldwide. Genomic alterations in squamous 
cell lung cancers have not been comprehensively characterized, and no molecularly
targeted agents have been specifically developed for its treatment. As part of
The Cancer Genome Atlas, here we profile 178 lung squamous cell carcinomas to
provide a comprehensive landscape of genomic and epigenomic alterations. We show 
that the tumour type is characterized by complex genomic alterations, with a mean
of 360 exonic mutations, 165 genomic rearrangements, and 323 segments of copy
number alteration per tumour. We find statistically recurrent mutations in 11
genes, including mutation of TP53 in nearly all specimens. Previously unreported 
loss-of-function mutations are seen in the HLA-A class I major histocompatibility
gene. Significantly altered pathways included NFE2L2 and KEAP1 in 34%, squamous
differentiation genes in 44%, phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase pathway genes in
47%, and CDKN2A and RB1 in 72% of tumours. We identified a potential therapeutic 
target in most tumours, offering new avenues of investigation for the treatment
of squamous cell lung cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11404 
PMCID: PMC3466113
PMID: 22960745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):581-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11353. Epub 2012 Sep 9.

The yeast Fun30 and human SMARCAD1 chromatin remodellers promote DNA end
resection.

Costelloe T(1), Louge R, Tomimatsu N, Mukherjee B, Martini E, Khadaroo B, Dubois 
K, Wiegant WW, Thierry A, Burma S, van Attikum H, Llorente B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicogenetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Einthovenweg
20, 2333 ZC Leiden, The Netherlands.

Several homology-dependent pathways can repair potentially lethal DNA
double-strand breaks (DSBs). The first step common to all homologous
recombination reactions is the 5'-3' degradation of DSB ends that yields the 3'
single-stranded DNA required for the loading of checkpoint and recombination
proteins. In yeast, the Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 complex (Xrs2 is known as NBN or NBS1 in
humans) and Sae2 (known as RBBP8 or CTIP in humans) initiate end resection,
whereas long-range resection depends on the exonuclease Exo1, or the
helicase-topoisomerase complex Sgs1-Top3-Rmi1 together with the endonuclease Dna2
(refs 1-6). DSBs occur in the context of chromatin, but how the resection
machinery navigates through nucleosomal DNA is a process that is not well
understood. Here we show that the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae Fun30 protein
and its human counterpart SMARCAD1 (ref. 8), two poorly characterized
ATP-dependent chromatin remodellers of the Snf2 ATPase family, are directly
involved in the DSB response. Fun30 physically associates with DSB ends and
directly promotes both Exo1- and Sgs1-dependent end resection through a mechanism
involving its ATPase activity. The function of Fun30 in resection facilitates the
repair of camptothecin-induced DNA lesions, although it becomes dispensable when 
Exo1 is ectopically overexpressed. Interestingly, SMARCAD1 is also recruited to
DSBs, and the kinetics of recruitment is similar to that of EXO1. The loss of
SMARCAD1 impairs end resection and recombinational DNA repair, and renders cells 
hypersensitive to DNA damage resulting from camptothecin or poly(ADP-ribose)
polymerase inhibitor treatments. These findings unveil an evolutionarily
conserved role for the Fun30 and SMARCAD1 chromatin remodellers in controlling
end resection, homologous recombination and genome stability in the context of
chromatin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11353 
PMCID: PMC3493121
PMID: 22960744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):576-80. doi: 10.1038/nature11355. Epub 2012 Sep 9.

The Fun30 nucleosome remodeller promotes resection of DNA double-strand break
ends.

Chen X(1), Cui D, Papusha A, Zhang X, Chu CD, Tang J, Chen K, Pan X, Ira G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, One
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Chromosomal double-strand breaks (DSBs) are resected by 5' nucleases to form 3'
single-stranded DNA substrates for binding by homologous recombination and DNA
damage checkpoint proteins. Two redundant pathways of extensive resection have
been described both in cells and in vitro, one relying on Exo1 exonuclease and
the other on Sgs1 helicase and Dna2 nuclease. However, it remains unknown how
resection proceeds within the context of chromatin, where histones and
histone-bound proteins represent barriers for resection enzymes. Here we identify
the yeast nucleosome-remodelling enzyme Fun30 as a factor promoting DSB end
resection. Fun30 is the major nucleosome remodeller promoting extensive Exo1- and
Sgs1-dependent resection of DSBs. The RSC and INO80 chromatin-remodelling
complexes and Fun30 have redundant roles in resection adjacent to DSB ends.
ATPase and helicase domains of Fun30, which are needed for nucleosome
remodelling, are also required for resection. Fun30 is robustly recruited to DNA 
breaks and spreads along the DSB coincident with resection. Fun30 becomes less
important for resection in the absence of the histone-bound Rad9 checkpoint
adaptor protein known to block 5' strand processing and in the absence of either 
histone H3 K79 methylation or γ-H2A, which mediate recruitment of Rad9 (refs 9,
10). Together these data suggest that Fun30 helps to overcome the inhibitory
effect of Rad9 on DNA resection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11355 
PMCID: PMC3640768
PMID: 22960743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):585-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11354. Epub 2012 Sep 2.

Interaction landscape of membrane-protein complexes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Babu M(1), Vlasblom J, Pu S, Guo X, Graham C, Bean BD, Burston HE, Vizeacoumar
FJ, Snider J, Phanse S, Fong V, Tam YY, Davey M, Hnatshak O, Bajaj N, Chandran S,
Punna T, Christopolous C, Wong V, Yu A, Zhong G, Li J, Stagljar I, Conibear E,
Wodak SJ, Emili A, Greenblatt JF.

Author information: 
(1)Banting and Best Department of Medical Research, Donnelly Centre, 160 College 
Street, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3E1, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2012 Nov;9(11):1043.

Macromolecular assemblies involving membrane proteins (MPs) serve vital
biological roles and are prime drug targets in a variety of diseases. Large-scale
affinity purification studies of soluble-protein complexes have been accomplished
for diverse model organisms, but no global characterization of MP-complex
membership has been described so far. Here we report a complete survey of 1,590
putative integral, peripheral and lipid-anchored MPs from Saccharomyces
cerevisiae, which were affinity purified in the presence of non-denaturing
detergents. The identities of the co-purifying proteins were determined by tandem
mass spectrometry and subsequently used to derive a high-confidence physical
interaction map encompassing 1,726 membrane protein-protein interactions and 501 
putative heteromeric complexes associated with the various cellular membrane
systems. Our analysis reveals unexpected physical associations underlying the
membrane biology of eukaryotes and delineates the global topological landscape of
the membrane interactome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11354 
PMID: 22940862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):566-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11371. Epub 2012 Aug 29.

Structural and genetic basis for development of broadly neutralizing influenza
antibodies.

Lingwood D(1), McTamney PM, Yassine HM, Whittle JR, Guo X, Boyington JC, Wei CJ, 
Nabel GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-3005, USA.

Influenza viruses take a yearly toll on human life despite efforts to contain
them with seasonal vaccines. These viruses evade human immunity through the
evolution of variants that resist neutralization. The identification of
antibodies that recognize invariant structures on the influenza haemagglutinin
(HA) protein have invigorated efforts to develop universal influenza vaccines.
Specifically, antibodies to the highly conserved stem region of HA neutralize
diverse viral subtypes. These antibodies largely derive from a specific antibody 
gene, heavy-chain variable region IGHV1-69, after limited affinity maturation
from their germline ancestors, but how HA stimulates naive B cells to mature and 
induce protective immunity is unknown. To address this question, we analysed the 
structural and genetic basis for their engagement and maturation into broadly
neutralizing antibodies. Here we show that the germline-encoded precursors of
these antibodies act as functional B-cell antigen receptors (BCRs) that initiate 
subsequent affinity maturation. Neither the germline precursor of a prototypic
antibody, CR6261 (ref. 3), nor those of two other natural human IGHV1-69
antibodies, bound HA as soluble immunoglobulin-G (IgG). However, all three
IGHV1-69 precursors engaged HA when the antibody was expressed as cell surface
IgM. HA triggered BCR-associated tyrosine kinase signalling by germline
transmembrane IgM. Recognition and virus neutralization was dependent solely on
the heavy chain, and affinity maturation of CR6261 required only seven amino
acids in the complementarity-determining region (CDR) H1 and framework region 3
(FR3) to restore full activity. These findings provide insight into the initial
events that lead to the generation of broadly neutralizing antibodies to
influenza, informing the rational design of vaccines to elicit such antibodies
and providing a model relevant to other infectious diseases, including human
immunodeficiency virus/AIDS. The data further suggest that selected
immunoglobulin genes recognize specific protein structural 'patterns' that
provide a substrate for further affinity maturation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11371 
PMID: 22932267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):571-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11368. Epub 2012 Aug 26.

Genotoxic consequences of endogenous aldehydes on mouse haematopoietic stem cell 
function.

Garaycoechea JI(1), Crossan GP, Langevin F, Daly M, Arends MJ, Patel KJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Nov 2;11(5):583-4.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Nov;12(11):734.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) regenerate blood cells throughout the lifespan
of an organism. With age, the functional quality of HSCs declines, partly owing
to the accumulation of damaged DNA. However, the factors that damage DNA and the 
protective mechanisms that operate in these cells are poorly understood. We have 
recently shown that the Fanconi anaemia DNA-repair pathway counteracts the
genotoxic effects of reactive aldehydes. Mice with combined inactivation of
aldehyde catabolism (through Aldh2 knockout) and the Fanconi anaemia DNA-repair
pathway (Fancd2 knockout) display developmental defects, a predisposition to
leukaemia, and are susceptible to the toxic effects of ethanol-an exogenous
source of acetaldehyde. Here we report that aged Aldh2(-/-) Fancd2(-/-) mutant
mice that do not develop leukaemia spontaneously develop aplastic anaemia, with
the concomitant accumulation of damaged DNA within the haematopoietic stem and
progenitor cell (HSPC) pool. Unexpectedly, we find that only HSPCs, and not more 
mature blood precursors, require Aldh2 for protection against acetaldehyde
toxicity. Additionally, the aldehyde-oxidizing activity of HSPCs, as measured by 
Aldefluor stain, is due to Aldh2 and correlates with this protection. Finally,
there is more than a 600-fold reduction in the HSC pool of mice deficient in both
Fanconi anaemia pathway-mediated DNA repair and acetaldehyde detoxification.
Therefore, the emergence of bone marrow failure in Fanconi anaemia is probably
due to aldehyde-mediated genotoxicity restricted to the HSPC pool. These findings
identify a new link between endogenous reactive metabolites and DNA damage in
HSCs, and define the protective mechanisms that counteract this threat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11368 
PMID: 22922648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):554-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11335. Epub 2012 Aug 8.

Delayed phenology and reduced fitness associated with climate change in a wild
hibernator.

Lane JE(1), Kruuk LE, Charmantier A, Murie JO, Dobson FS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Evolutionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences, University
of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK. u.columbianus@hotmail.com

The most commonly reported ecological effects of climate change are shifts in
phenologies, in particular of warmer spring temperatures leading to earlier
timing of key events. Among animals, however, these reports have been heavily
biased towards avian phenologies, whereas we still know comparatively little
about other seasonal adaptations, such as mammalian hibernation. Here we show a
significant delay (0.47 days per year, over a 20-year period) in the hibernation 
emergence date of adult females in a wild population of Columbian ground
squirrels in Alberta, Canada. This finding was related to the climatic conditions
at our study location: owing to within-individual phenotypic plasticity, females 
emerged later during years of lower spring temperature and delayed snowmelt.
Although there has not been a significant annual trend in spring temperature, the
date of snowmelt has become progressively later owing to an increasing prevalence
of late-season snowstorms. Importantly, years of later emergence were also
associated with decreased individual fitness. There has consequently been a
decline in mean fitness (that is, population growth rate) across the past two
decades. Our results show that plastic responses to climate change may be driven 
by climatic trends other than increasing temperature, and may be associated with 
declines in individual fitness and, hence, population viability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11335 
PMID: 22878721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):558-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11349. Epub 2012 Aug 8.

Evidence for dietary change but not landscape use in South African early
hominins.

Balter V(1), Braga J, Télouk P, Thackeray JF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Géologie de Lyon, UMR 5276, CNRS, Ecole Normale Supérieure de
Lyon, 15 parvis René Descartes BP 7000, 69342 Lyon Cedex 07, France.
Vincent.Balter@ens-lyon.fr

The dichotomy between early Homo and Paranthropus is justified partly on
morphology. In terms of diet, it has been suggested that early Homo was a
generalist but that Paranthropus was a specialist. However, this model is
challenged and the issue of the resources used by Australopithecus, the presumed 
common ancestor, is still unclear. Laser ablation profiles of strontium/calcium, 
barium/calcium and strontium isotope ratios in tooth enamel are a means to
decipher intra-individual diet and habitat changes. Here we show that the home
range area was of similar size for species of the three hominin genera but that
the dietary breadth was much higher in Australopithecus africanus than in
Paranthropus robustus and early Homo. We also confirm that P. robustus relied
more on plant-based foodstuffs than early Homo. A South African scenario is
emerging in which the broad ecological niche of Australopithecus became split,
and was then occupied by Paranthropus and early Homo, both consuming a lower
diversity of foods than Australopithecus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11349 
PMID: 22878716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):427-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11467.

Spontaneous giving and calculated greed.

Rand DG(1), Greene JD, Nowak MA.

Author information: 
(1)Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. drand@fas.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):374-5.
    Nature. 2013 Jun 6;498(7452):E1-2; discussion E2-3.
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):487.

Cooperation is central to human social behaviour. However, choosing to cooperate 
requires individuals to incur a personal cost to benefit others. Here we explore 
the cognitive basis of cooperative decision-making in humans using a dual-process
framework. We ask whether people are predisposed towards selfishness, behaving
cooperatively only through active self-control; or whether they are intuitively
cooperative, with reflection and prospective reasoning favouring 'rational'
self-interest. To investigate this issue, we perform ten studies using economic
games. We find that across a range of experimental designs, subjects who reach
their decisions more quickly are more cooperative. Furthermore, forcing subjects 
to decide quickly increases contributions, whereas instructing them to reflect
and forcing them to decide slowly decreases contributions. Finally, an induction 
that primes subjects to trust their intuitions increases contributions compared
with an induction that promotes greater reflection. To explain these results, we 
propose that cooperation is intuitive because cooperative heuristics are
developed in daily life where cooperation is typically advantageous. We then
validate predictions generated by this proposed mechanism. Our results provide
convergent evidence that intuition supports cooperation in social dilemmas, and
that reflection can undermine these cooperative impulses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11467 
PMID: 22996558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11357.

Oceanic nitrogen reservoir regulated by plankton diversity and ocean circulation.

Weber T(1), Deutsch C.

Author information: 
(1)University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
tweber@atmos.ucla.edu

The average nitrogen-to-phosphorus ratio of marine phytoplankton (16N:1P) is
closely matched to the nutrient content of mean ocean waters (14.3N:1P). This
condition is thought to arise from biological control over the ocean's nitrogen
budget, in which removal of bioavailable nitrogen by denitrifying bacteria
ensures widespread selection for diazotrophic phytoplankton that replenish this
essential nutrient when it limits the growth of other species. Here we show that 
in the context of a realistic ocean circulation model, and a uniform N:P ratio of
plankton biomass, this feedback mechanism yields an oceanic nitrate deficit more 
than double its observed value. The critical missing phenomenon is diversity in
the metabolic N:P requirement of phytoplankton, which has recently been shown to 
exhibit large-scale patterns associated with species composition. When we model
these variations, such that diazotrophs compete with high N:P communities in
subtropical regions, the ocean nitrogen inventory rises and may even exceed the
average N:P ratio of plankton. The latter condition, previously considered
impossible, is prevented in the modern ocean by shallow circulations that
communicate stoichiometric signals from remote biomes dominated by diatoms with
low N:P ratios. Large-scale patterns of plankton diversity and the circulation
pathways connecting them are thus key factors determining the availability of
fixed nitrogen in the ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11357 
PMID: 22996557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):414-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11439.

High-performance bulk thermoelectrics with all-scale hierarchical architectures.

Biswas K(1), He J, Blum ID, Wu CI, Hogan TP, Seidman DN, Dravid VP, Kanatzidis
MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):570.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):375-6.

With about two-thirds of all used energy being lost as waste heat, there is a
compelling need for high-performance thermoelectric materials that can directly
and reversibly convert heat to electrical energy. However, the practical
realization of thermoelectric materials is limited by their hitherto low figure
of merit, ZT, which governs the Carnot efficiency according to the second law of 
thermodynamics. The recent successful strategy of nanostructuring to reduce
thermal conductivity has achieved record-high ZT values in the range 1.5-1.8 at
750-900 kelvin, but still falls short of the generally desired threshold value of
2. Nanostructures in bulk thermoelectrics allow effective phonon scattering of a 
significant portion of the phonon spectrum, but phonons with long mean free paths
remain largely unaffected. Here we show that heat-carrying phonons with long mean
free paths can be scattered by controlling and fine-tuning the mesoscale
architecture of nanostructured thermoelectric materials. Thus, by considering
sources of scattering on all relevant length scales in a hierarchical
fashion--from atomic-scale lattice disorder and nanoscale endotaxial precipitates
to mesoscale grain boundaries--we achieve the maximum reduction in lattice
thermal conductivity and a large enhancement in the thermoelectric performance of
PbTe. By taking such a panoscopic approach to the scattering of heat-carrying
phonons across integrated length scales, we go beyond nanostructuring and
demonstrate a ZT value of ∼2.2 at 915 kelvin in p-type PbTe endotaxially
nanostructured with SrTe at a concentration of 4 mole per cent and mesostructured
with powder processing and spark plasma sintering. This increase in ZT beyond the
threshold of 2 highlights the role of, and need for, multiscale hierarchical
architecture in controlling phonon scattering in bulk thermoelectrics, and offers
a realistic prospect of the recovery of a significant portion of waste heat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11439 
PMID: 22996556 


291. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):409-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11437.

Pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy powered by a free-electron
laser.

Takahashi S(1), Brunel LC, Edwards DT, van Tol J, Ramian G, Han S, Sherwin MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
California 90089, USA.

Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy interrogates unpaired electron
spins in solids and liquids to reveal local structure and dynamics; for example, 
EPR has elucidated parts of the structure of protein complexes that other
techniques in structural biology have not been able to reveal. EPR can also probe
the interplay of light and electricity in organic solar cells and light-emitting 
diodes, and the origin of decoherence in condensed matter, which is of
fundamental importance to the development of quantum information processors. Like
nuclear magnetic resonance, EPR spectroscopy becomes more powerful at high
magnetic fields and frequencies, and with excitation by coherent pulses rather
than continuous waves. However, the difficulty of generating sequences of
powerful pulses at frequencies above 100 gigahertz has, until now, confined
high-power pulsed EPR to magnetic fields of 3.5 teslas and below. Here we
demonstrate that one-kilowatt pulses from a free-electron laser can power a
pulsed EPR spectrometer at 240 gigahertz (8.5 teslas), providing transformative
enhancements over the alternative, a state-of-the-art ∼30-milliwatt solid-state
source. Our spectrometer can rotate spin-1/2 electrons through π/2 in only 6
nanoseconds (compared to 300 nanoseconds with the solid-state source).
Fourier-transform EPR on nitrogen impurities in diamond demonstrates excitation
and detection of EPR lines separated by about 200 megahertz. We measured
decoherence times as short as 63 nanoseconds, in a frozen solution of nitroxide
free-radicals at temperatures as high as 190 kelvin. Both free-electron lasers
and the quasi-optical technology developed for the spectrometer are scalable to
frequencies well in excess of one terahertz, opening the way to high-power pulsed
EPR spectroscopy up to the highest static magnetic fields currently available.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11437 
PMID: 22996555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):406-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11446.

A magnified young galaxy from about 500 million years after the Big Bang.

Zheng W(1), Postman M, Zitrin A, Moustakas J, Shu X, Jouvel S, Høst O, Molino A, 
Bradley L, Coe D, Moustakas LA, Carrasco M, Ford H, Benítez N, Lauer TR, Seitz S,
Bouwens R, Koekemoer A, Medezinski E, Bartelmann M, Broadhurst T, Donahue M,
Grillo C, Infante L, Jha SW, Kelson DD, Lahav O, Lemze D, Melchior P, Meneghetti 
M, Merten J, Nonino M, Ogaz S, Rosati P, Umetsu K, van der Wel A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21218, USA. zheng@pha.jhu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):370-1.

Re-ionization of the intergalactic medium occurred in the early Universe at
redshift z ≈ 6-11, following the formation of the first generation of stars.
Those young galaxies (where the bulk of stars formed) at a cosmic age of less
than about 500 million years (z ≲ 10) remain largely unexplored because they are 
at or beyond the sensitivity limits of existing large telescopes. Understanding
the properties of these galaxies is critical to identifying the source of the
radiation that re-ionized the intergalactic medium. Gravitational lensing by
galaxy clusters allows the detection of high-redshift galaxies fainter than what 
otherwise could be found in the deepest images of the sky. Here we report
multiband observations of the cluster MACS J1149+2223 that have revealed (with
high probability) a gravitationally magnified galaxy from the early Universe, at 
a redshift of z = 9.6 ± 0.2 (that is, a cosmic age of 490 ± 15 million years, or 
3.6 per cent of the age of the Universe). We estimate that it formed less than
200 million years after the Big Bang (at the 95 per cent confidence level),
implying a formation redshift of ≲14. Given the small sky area that our
observations cover, faint galaxies seem to be abundant at such a young cosmic
age, suggesting that they may be the dominant source for the early re-ionization 
of the intergalactic medium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11446 
PMID: 22996554 


293. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):391-399. doi: 10.1038/nature11405.

An anatomically comprehensive atlas of the adult human brain transcriptome.

Hawrylycz MJ(#)(1), Lein ES(#)(1), Guillozet-Bongaarts AL(1), Shen EH(1), Ng
L(1), Miller JA(1), van de Lagemaat LN(2), Smith KA(1), Ebbert A(1), Riley ZL(1),
Abajian C(1), Beckmann CF(3), Bernard A(1), Bertagnolli D(1), Boe AF(1),
Cartagena PM(4), Chakravarty MM(5), Chapin M(1), Chong J(1), Dalley RA(1), David 
Daly B(6), Dang C(1), Datta S(1), Dee N(1), Dolbeare TA(1), Faber V(1), Feng
D(1), Fowler DR(7), Goldy J(1), Gregor BW(1), Haradon Z(1), Haynor DR(8), Hohmann
JG(1), Horvath S(9), Howard RE(1), Jeromin A(10), Jochim JM(1), Kinnunen M(1),
Lau C(1), Lazarz ET(1), Lee C(1), Lemon TA(1), Li L(11), Li Y(1), Morris JA(1),
Overly CC(1), Parker PD(1), Parry SE(1), Reding M(1), Royall JJ(1), Schulkin
J(12), Sequeira PA(13), Slaughterbeck CR(1), Smith SC(14), Sodt AJ(1), Sunkin
SM(1), Swanson BE(1), Vawter MP(13), Williams D(1), Wohnoutka P(1), Zielke
HR(15), Geschwind DH(16), Hof PR(17), Smith SM(18), Koch C(19), Grant SGN(2),
Jones AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA.
(2)Genes to Cognition Programme, Edinburgh University, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.
(3)MIRA Institute, University of Twente & Donders Institute, Radboud University
Nijmegen, Nijmegen, Netherlands.
(4)Department of Psychiatry & Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine,
California 92697, USA.
(5)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA; Kimel
Family Translational Imaging-Genetics Laboratory, Centre for Addiction and Mental
Health Toronto, Ontario M5S 2S1, Canada.
(6)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Department of Diagnostic Radiology,
University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21201, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, 
USA.
(9)Department of Human Genetics, Gonda Research Center, David Geffen School of
Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(10)Banyan Biomarkers, Inc., Alachua, Florida 32615, USA.
(11)Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, Baltimore, MD, Department of
Pediatrics, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA.
(12)Department of Neuroscience, Georgetown University, School of Medicine,
Washington DC 20007, USA.
(13)Functional Genomics Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry & Human Behavior,
School of Medicine, University of California, Irvine, California 92697, USA.
(14)Histion LLC, Everett, Washington 98204, USA.
(15)The Eunice Kennedy Shriver NICHD Brain and Tissue Bank for Developmental
Disorders, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA.
(16)Program in Neurogenetics, Department of Neurology and Department of Human
Genetics, and Semel Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine-UCLA, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.
(17)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute, Mount Sinai
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(18)FMRIB, Oxford University, Oxford OX3 9DU, UK.
(19)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA;
Computation & Neural Systems, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2012 Nov;9(11):1044-5.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Nov;13(11):737.

Neuroanatomically precise, genome-wide maps of transcript distributions are
critical resources to complement genomic sequence data and to correlate
functional and genetic brain architecture. Here we describe the generation and
analysis of a transcriptional atlas of the adult human brain, comprising
extensive histological analysis and comprehensive microarray profiling of ∼900
neuroanatomically precise subdivisions in two individuals. Transcriptional
regulation varies enormously by anatomical location, with different regions and
their constituent cell types displaying robust molecular signatures that are
highly conserved between individuals. Analysis of differential gene expression
and gene co-expression relationships demonstrates that brain-wide variation
strongly reflects the distributions of major cell classes such as neurons,
oligodendrocytes, astrocytes and microglia. Local neighbourhood relationships
between fine anatomical subdivisions are associated with discrete neuronal
subtypes and genes involved with synaptic transmission. The neocortex displays a 
relatively homogeneous transcriptional pattern, but with distinct features
associated selectively with primary sensorimotor cortices and with enriched
frontal lobe expression. Notably, the spatial topography of the neocortex is
strongly reflected in its molecular topography-the closer two cortical regions,
the more similar their transcriptomes. This freely accessible online data
resource forms a high-resolution transcriptional baseline for neurogenetic
studies of normal and abnormal human brain function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11405 
PMCID: PMC4243026
PMID: 22996553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):379-84. doi: 10.1038/nature11406.

Bose glass and Mott glass of quasiparticles in a doped quantum magnet.

Yu R(1), Yin L, Sullivan NS, Xia JS, Huan C, Paduan-Filho A, Oliveira NF Jr, Haas
S, Steppke A, Miclea CF, Weickert F, Movshovich R, Mun ED, Scott BL, Zapf VS,
Roscilde T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005,
USA.

The low-temperature states of bosonic fluids exhibit fundamental quantum effects 
at the macroscopic scale: the best-known examples are Bose-Einstein condensation 
and superfluidity, which have been tested experimentally in a variety of
different systems. When bosons interact, disorder can destroy condensation,
leading to a 'Bose glass'. This phase has been very elusive in experiments owing 
to the absence of any broken symmetry and to the simultaneous absence of a finite
energy gap in the spectrum. Here we report the observation of a Bose glass of
field-induced magnetic quasiparticles in a doped quantum magnet (bromine-doped
dichloro-tetrakis-thiourea-nickel, DTN). The physics of DTN in a magnetic field
is equivalent to that of a lattice gas of bosons in the grand canonical ensemble;
bromine doping introduces disorder into the hopping and interaction strength of
the bosons, leading to their localization into a Bose glass down to zero field,
where it becomes an incompressible Mott glass. The transition from the Bose glass
(corresponding to a gapless spin liquid) to the Bose-Einstein condensate
(corresponding to a magnetically ordered phase) is marked by a universal exponent
that governs the scaling of the critical temperature with the applied field, in
excellent agreement with theoretical predictions. Our study represents a
quantitative experimental account of the universal features of disordered bosons 
in the grand canonical ensemble.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11406 
PMID: 22996552 


295. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):434-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11497. Epub 2012 Sep 12.

Attention deficits without cortical neuronal deficits.

Zénon A(1), Krauzlis RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Université Catholique de Louvain, 1200 Brussels,
Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):371-2.

The ability to process relevant stimuli selectively is a fundamental function of 
the primate visual system. The best-understood correlate of this function is the 
enhanced response of neurons in the visual cortex to attended stimuli. However,
recent results show that the superior colliculus (SC), a midbrain structure, also
has a crucial role in visual attention. It has been assumed that the SC acts
through the same well-known mechanisms in the visual cortex. Here we tested this 
hypothesis by transiently inactivating the SC during a motion-change-detection
task and measuring responses in two visual cortical areas. We found that despite 
large deficits in visual attention, the enhanced responses of neurons in the
visual cortex to attended stimuli were unchanged. These results show that the SC 
contributes to visual attention through mechanisms that are independent of the
classic effects in the visual cortex, demonstrating that other processes must
have key roles in visual attention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11497 
PMCID: PMC3448852
PMID: 22972195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):423-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11377. Epub 2012 Sep 12.

Afternoon rain more likely over drier soils.

Taylor CM(1), de Jeu RA, Guichard F, Harris PP, Dorigo WA.

Author information: 
(1)NERC Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, Maclean Building, Benson Lane,
Crowmarsh Gifford, Wallingford OX10 8BB, UK. cmt@ceh.ac.uk

Land surface properties, such as vegetation cover and soil moisture, influence
the partitioning of radiative energy between latent and sensible heat fluxes in
daytime hours. During dry periods, soil-water deficit can limit
evapotranspiration, leading to warmer and drier conditions in the lower
atmosphere. Soil moisture can influence the development of convective storms
through such modifications of low-level atmospheric temperature and humidity,
which in turn feeds back on soil moisture. Yet there is considerable uncertainty 
in how soil moisture affects convective storms across the world, owing to a lack 
of observational evidence and uncertainty in large-scale models. Here we present 
a global-scale observational analysis of the coupling between soil moisture and
precipitation. We show that across all six continents studied, afternoon rain
falls preferentially over soils that are relatively dry compared to the
surrounding area. The signal emerges most clearly in the observations over
semi-arid regions, where surface fluxes are sensitive to soil moisture, and
convective events are frequent. Mechanistically, our results are consistent with 
enhanced afternoon moist convection driven by increased sensible heat flux over
drier soils, and/or mesoscale variability in soil moisture. We find no evidence
in our analysis of a positive feedback--that is, a preference for rain over
wetter soils-at the spatial scale (50-100 kilometres) studied. In contrast, we
find that a positive feedback of soil moisture on simulated precipitation does
dominate in six state-of-the-art global weather and climate models--a difference 
that may contribute to excessive simulated droughts in large-scale models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11377 
PMID: 22972193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):456-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11369. Epub 2012 Aug 26.

Structure of the haptoglobin-haemoglobin complex.

Andersen CB(1), Torvund-Jensen M, Nielsen MJ, de Oliveira CL, Hersleth HP,
Andersen NH, Pedersen JS, Andersen GR, Moestrup SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.
cbfa@biokemi.au.dk

Red cell haemoglobin is the fundamental oxygen-transporting molecule in blood,
but also a potentially tissue-damaging compound owing to its highly reactive haem
groups. During intravascular haemolysis, such as in malaria and
haemoglobinopathies, haemoglobin is released into the plasma, where it is
captured by the protective acute-phase protein haptoglobin. This leads to
formation of the haptoglobin-haemoglobin complex, which represents a virtually
irreversible non-covalent protein-protein interaction. Here we present the
crystal structure of the dimeric porcine haptoglobin-haemoglobin complex
determined at 2.9 Å resolution. This structure reveals that haptoglobin molecules
dimerize through an unexpected β-strand swap between two complement control
protein (CCP) domains, defining a new fusion CCP domain structure. The
haptoglobin serine protease domain forms extensive interactions with both the α- 
and β-subunits of haemoglobin, explaining the tight binding between haptoglobin
and haemoglobin. The haemoglobin-interacting region in the αβ dimer is highly
overlapping with the interface between the two αβ dimers that constitute the
native haemoglobin tetramer. Several haemoglobin residues prone to oxidative
modification after exposure to haem-induced reactive oxygen species are buried in
the haptoglobin-haemoglobin interface, thus showing a direct protective role of
haptoglobin. The haptoglobin loop previously shown to be essential for binding of
haptoglobin-haemoglobin to the macrophage scavenger receptor CD163 (ref. 3)
protrudes from the surface of the distal end of the complex, adjacent to the
associated haemoglobin α-subunit. Small-angle X-ray scattering measurements of
human haptoglobin-haemoglobin bound to the ligand-binding fragment of CD163
confirm receptor binding in this area, and show that the rigid dimeric complex
can bind two receptors. Such receptor cross-linkage may facilitate scavenging and
explain the increased functional affinity of multimeric haptoglobin-haemoglobin
for CD163 (ref. 4).

DOI: 10.1038/nature11369 
PMID: 22922649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):452-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11326. Epub 2012 Aug 22.

Set2 methylation of histone H3 lysine 36 suppresses histone exchange on
transcribed genes.

Venkatesh S(1), Smolle M, Li H, Gogol MM, Saint M, Kumar S, Natarajan K, Workman 
JL.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 E. 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Oct;13(10):602-3.

Set2-mediated methylation of histone H3 at Lys 36 (H3K36me) is a
co-transcriptional event that is necessary for the activation of the Rpd3S
histone deacetylase complex, thereby maintaining the coding region of genes in a 
hypoacetylated state. In the absence of Set2, H3K36 or Rpd3S acetylated histones 
accumulate on open reading frames (ORFs), leading to transcription initiation
from cryptic promoters within ORFs. Although the co-transcriptional deacetylation
pathway is well characterized, the factors responsible for acetylation are as yet
unknown. Here we show that, in yeast, co-transcriptional acetylation is achieved 
in part by histone exchange over ORFs. In addition to its function of targeting
and activating the Rpd3S complex, H3K36 methylation suppresses the interaction of
H3 with histone chaperones, histone exchange over coding regions and the
incorporation of new acetylated histones. Thus, Set2 functions both to suppress
the incorporation of acetylated histones and to signal for the deacetylation of
these histones in transcribed genes. By suppressing spurious cryptic transcripts 
from initiating within ORFs, this pathway is essential to maintain the accuracy
of transcription by RNA polymerase II.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11326 
PMID: 22914091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):385-90. doi: 10.1038/nature11356. Epub 2012 Aug 22.

Autistic-like behaviour in Scn1a+/- mice and rescue by enhanced GABA-mediated
neurotransmission.

Han S(1), Tai C, Westenbroek RE, Yu FH, Cheah CS, Potter GB, Rubenstein JL,
Scheuer T, de la Iglesia HO, Catterall WA.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neurobiology & Behavior, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Haploinsufficiency of the SCN1A gene encoding voltage-gated sodium channel
Na(V)1.1 causes Dravet's syndrome, a childhood neuropsychiatric disorder
including recurrent intractable seizures, cognitive deficit and autism-spectrum
behaviours. The neural mechanisms responsible for cognitive deficit and
autism-spectrum behaviours in Dravet's syndrome are poorly understood. Here we
report that mice with Scn1a haploinsufficiency exhibit hyperactivity, stereotyped
behaviours, social interaction deficits and impaired context-dependent spatial
memory. Olfactory sensitivity is retained, but novel food odours and social
odours are aversive to Scn1a(+/-) mice. GABAergic neurotransmission is
specifically impaired by this mutation, and selective deletion of Na(V)1.1
channels in forebrain interneurons is sufficient to cause these behavioural and
cognitive impairments. Remarkably, treatment with low-dose clonazepam, a positive
allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors, completely rescued the abnormal social
behaviours and deficits in fear memory in the mouse model of Dravet's syndrome,
demonstrating that they are caused by impaired GABAergic neurotransmission and
not by neuronal damage from recurrent seizures. These results demonstrate a
critical role for Na(V)1.1 channels in neuropsychiatric functions and provide a
potential therapeutic strategy for cognitive deficit and autism-spectrum
behaviours in Dravet's syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11356 
PMCID: PMC3448848
PMID: 22914087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):443-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11334. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Genome-wide association study indicates two novel resistance loci for severe
malaria.

Timmann C(1), Thye T, Vens M, Evans J, May J, Ehmen C, Sievertsen J, Muntau B,
Ruge G, Loag W, Ansong D, Antwi S, Asafo-Adjei E, Nguah SB, Kwakye KO, Akoto AO, 
Sylverken J, Brendel M, Schuldt K, Loley C, Franke A, Meyer CG, Agbenyega T,
Ziegler A, Horstmann RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical
Medicine, 20359 Hamburg, Germany. timmann@bnitm.de

Malaria causes approximately one million fatalities per year, mostly among
African children. Although highlighted by the strong protective effect of the
sickle-cell trait, the full impact of human genetics on resistance to the disease
remains largely unexplored. Genome-wide association (GWA) studies are designed to
unravel relevant genetic variants comprehensively; however, in malaria, as in
other infectious diseases, these studies have been only partly successful. Here
we identify two previously unknown loci associated with severe falciparum malaria
in patients and controls from Ghana, West Africa. We applied the GWA approach to 
the diverse clinical syndromes of severe falciparum malaria, thereby targeting
human genetic variants influencing any step in the complex pathogenesis of the
disease. One of the loci was identified on chromosome 1q32 within the ATP2B4
gene, which encodes the main calcium pump of erythrocytes, the host cells of the 
pathogenic stage of malaria parasites. The second was indicated by an intergenic 
single nucleotide polymorphism on chromosome 16q22.2, possibly linked to a
neighbouring gene encoding the tight-junction protein MARVELD3. The protein is
expressed on endothelial cells and might therefore have a role in microvascular
damage caused by endothelial adherence of parasitized erythrocytes. We also
confirmed previous reports on protective effects of the sickle-cell trait and
blood group O. Our findings underline the potential of the GWA approach to
provide candidates for the development of control measures against infectious
diseases in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11334 
PMID: 22895189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):438-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11348. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Lrp4 is a retrograde signal for presynaptic differentiation at neuromuscular
synapses.

Yumoto N(1), Kim N, Burden SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Program, Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for
Biology and Medicine at the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York
University Medical School, New York, New York, USA.

Motor axons receive retrograde signals from skeletal muscle that are essential
for the differentiation and stabilization of motor nerve terminals.
Identification of these retrograde signals has proved elusive, but their
production by muscle depends on the receptor tyrosine kinase, MuSK (muscle,
skeletal receptor tyrosine-protein kinase), and Lrp4 (low-density lipoprotein
receptor (LDLR)-related protein 4), an LDLR family member that forms a complex
with MuSK, binds neural agrin and stimulates MuSK kinase activity. Here we show
that Lrp4 also functions as a direct muscle-derived retrograde signal for early
steps in presynaptic differentiation. We demonstrate that Lrp4 is necessary,
independent of MuSK activation, for presynaptic differentiation in vivo, and we
show that Lrp4 binds to motor axons and induces clustering of synaptic-vesicle
and active-zone proteins. Thus, Lrp4 acts bidirectionally and coordinates synapse
formation by binding agrin, activating MuSK and stimulating postsynaptic
differentiation, and functioning in turn as a muscle-derived retrograde signal
that is necessary and sufficient for presynaptic differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11348 
PMCID: PMC3448831
PMID: 22854782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):400-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11375. Epub 2012 Jul 29.

Structural plasticity and dynamic selectivity of acid-sensing ion channel-spider 
toxin complexes.

Baconguis I(1), Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are voltage-independent, amiloride-sensitive
channels involved in diverse physiological processes ranging from nociception to 
taste. Despite the importance of ASICs in physiology, we know little about the
mechanism of channel activation. Here we show that psalmotoxin activates
non-selective and Na(+)-selective currents in chicken ASIC1a at pH 7.25 and 5.5, 
respectively. Crystal structures of ASIC1a-psalmotoxin complexes map the toxin
binding site to the extracellular domain and show how toxin binding triggers an
expansion of the extracellular vestibule and stabilization of the open channel
pore. At pH 7.25 the pore is approximately 10 Å in diameter, whereas at pH 5.5
the pore is largely hydrophobic and elliptical in cross-section with dimensions
of approximately 5 by 7 Å, consistent with a barrier mechanism for ion
selectivity. These studies define mechanisms for activation of ASICs, illuminate 
the basis for dynamic ion selectivity and provide the blueprints for new
therapeutic agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11375 
PMCID: PMC3725952
PMID: 22842900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):447-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11352. Epub 2012 Jul 18.

A nuclear Argonaute promotes multigenerational epigenetic inheritance and
germline immortality.

Buckley BA(1), Burkhart KB, Gu SG, Spracklin G, Kershner A, Fritz H, Kimble J,
Fire A, Kennedy S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
53706, USA.

Epigenetic information is frequently erased near the start of each new
generation. In some cases, however, epigenetic information can be transmitted
from parent to progeny (multigenerational epigenetic inheritance). A particularly
notable example of this type of epigenetic inheritance is double-stranded
RNA-mediated gene silencing in Caenorhabditis elegans. This RNA-mediated
interference (RNAi) can be inherited for more than five generations. To
understand this process, here we conduct a genetic screen for nematodes defective
in transmitting RNAi silencing signals to future generations. This screen
identified the heritable RNAi defective 1 (hrde-1) gene. hrde-1 encodes an
Argonaute protein that associates with small interfering RNAs in the germ cells
of progeny of animals exposed to double-stranded RNA. In the nuclei of these germ
cells, HRDE-1 engages the nuclear RNAi defective pathway to direct the
trimethylation of histone H3 at Lys 9 (H3K9me3) at RNAi-targeted genomic loci and
promote RNAi inheritance. Under normal growth conditions, HRDE-1 associates with 
endogenously expressed short interfering RNAs, which direct nuclear gene
silencing in germ cells. In hrde-1- or nuclear RNAi-deficient animals, germline
silencing is lost over generational time. Concurrently, these animals exhibit
steadily worsening defects in gamete formation and function that ultimately lead 
to sterility. These results establish that the Argonaute protein HRDE-1 directs
gene-silencing events in germ-cell nuclei that drive multigenerational RNAi
inheritance and promote immortality of the germ-cell lineage. We propose that C. 
elegans use the RNAi inheritance machinery to transmit epigenetic information,
accrued by past generations, into future generations to regulate important
biological processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11352 
PMCID: PMC3509936
PMID: 22810588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):431-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11330. Epub 2012 Jul 18.

Sex-specific volatile compounds influence microarthropod-mediated fertilization
of moss.

Rosenstiel TN(1), Shortlidge EE, Melnychenko AN, Pankow JF, Eppley SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Center for Life in Extreme Environments, Portland
State University, 1719 SW 10th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97201, USA.

Sexual reproduction in non-vascular plants requires unicellular free-motile sperm
to travel from male to female reproductive structures across the terrestrial
landscape. Recent data suggest that microarthropods can disperse sperm in mosses.
However, little is known about the chemical communication, if any, that is
involved in this interaction or the relative importance of microarthropod
dispersal compared to abiotic dispersal agents in mosses. Here we show that
tissues of the cosmopolitan moss Ceratodon purpureus emit complex volatile
scents, similar in chemical diversity to those described in pollination
mutualisms between flowering plants and insects, that the chemical composition of
C. purpureus volatiles are sex-specific, and that moss-dwelling microarthropods
are differentially attracted to these sex-specific moss volatile cues.
Furthermore, using experimental microcosms, we show that microarthropods
significantly increase moss fertilization rates, even in the presence of water
spray, highlighting the important role of microarthropod dispersal in
contributing to moss mating success. Taken together, our results indicate the
presence of a scent-based 'plant-pollinator-like' relationship that has evolved
between two of Earth's most ancient terrestrial lineages, mosses and
microarthropods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11330 
PMID: 22810584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):304-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11468.

Increased proteasome activity in human embryonic stem cells is regulated by
PSMD11.

Vilchez D(1), Boyer L, Morantte I, Lutz M, Merkwirth C, Joyce D, Spencer B, Page 
L, Masliah E, Berggren WT, Gage FH, Dillin A.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Glenn Center for Aging Research, Molecular
and Cell Biology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010
North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Embryonic stem cells can replicate continuously in the absence of senescence and,
therefore, are immortal in culture. Although genome stability is essential for
the survival of stem cells, proteome stability may have an equally important role
in stem-cell identity and function. Furthermore, with the asymmetric divisions
invoked by stem cells, the passage of damaged proteins to daughter cells could
potentially destroy the resulting lineage of cells. Therefore, a firm
understanding of how stem cells maintain their proteome is of central importance.
Here we show that human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) exhibit high proteasome
activity that is correlated with increased levels of the 19S proteasome subunit
PSMD11 (known as RPN-6 in Caenorhabditis elegans) and a corresponding increased
assembly of the 26S/30S proteasome. Ectopic expression of PSMD11 is sufficient to
increase proteasome assembly and activity. FOXO4, an insulin/insulin-like growth 
factor-I (IGF-I) responsive transcription factor associated with long lifespan in
invertebrates, regulates proteasome activity by modulating the expression of
PSMD11 in hESCs. Proteasome inhibition in hESCs affects the expression of
pluripotency markers and the levels of specific markers of the distinct germ
layers. Our results suggest a new regulation of proteostasis in hESCs that links 
longevity and stress resistance in invertebrates to hESC function and identity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11468 
PMCID: PMC5215918
PMID: 22972301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):295-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11421.

A 61-million-person experiment in social influence and political mobilization.

Bond RM(1), Fariss CJ, Jones JJ, Kramer AD, Marlow C, Settle JE, Fowler JH.

Author information: 
(1)Political Science Department, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):212-4.

Human behaviour is thought to spread through face-to-face social networks, but it
is difficult to identify social influence effects in observational studies, and
it is unknown whether online social networks operate in the same way. Here we
report results from a randomized controlled trial of political mobilization
messages delivered to 61 million Facebook users during the 2010 US congressional 
elections. The results show that the messages directly influenced political
self-expression, information seeking and real-world voting behaviour of millions 
of people. Furthermore, the messages not only influenced the users who received
them but also the users' friends, and friends of friends. The effect of social
transmission on real-world voting was greater than the direct effect of the
messages themselves, and nearly all the transmission occurred between 'close
friends' who were more likely to have a face-to-face relationship. These results 
suggest that strong ties are instrumental for spreading both online and
real-world behaviour in human social networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11421 
PMCID: PMC3834737
PMID: 22972300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):274-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11418.

Stabilization of Leidenfrost vapour layer by textured superhydrophobic surfaces.

Vakarelski IU(1), Patankar NA, Marston JO, Chan DY, Thoroddsen ST.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Physical Sciences and Engineering, King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology, Thuwal 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.
ivanuriev.vakarelski@kaust.edu.sa

In 1756, Leidenfrost observed that water drops skittered on a sufficiently hot
skillet, owing to levitation by an evaporative vapour film. Such films are stable
only when the hot surface is above a critical temperature, and are a central
phenomenon in boiling. In this so-called Leidenfrost regime, the low thermal
conductivity of the vapour layer inhibits heat transfer between the hot surface
and the liquid. When the temperature of the cooling surface drops below the
critical temperature, the vapour film collapses and the system enters a
nucleate-boiling regime, which can result in vapour explosions that are
particularly detrimental in certain contexts, such as in nuclear power plants.
The presence of these vapour films can also reduce liquid-solid drag. Here we
show how vapour film collapse can be completely suppressed at textured
superhydrophobic surfaces. At a smooth hydrophobic surface, the vapour film still
collapses on cooling, albeit at a reduced critical temperature, and the system
switches explosively to nucleate boiling. In contrast, at textured,
superhydrophobic surfaces, the vapour layer gradually relaxes until the surface
is completely cooled, without exhibiting a nucleate-boiling phase. This result
demonstrates that topological texture on superhydrophobic materials is critical
in stabilizing the vapour layer and thus in controlling--by heat transfer--the
liquid-gas phase transition at hot surfaces. This concept can potentially be
applied to control other phase transitions, such as ice or frost formation, and
to the design of low-drag surfaces at which the vapour phase is stabilized in the
grooves of textures without heating.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11418 
PMID: 22972299 


308. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):250-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11553.

Genomic approaches to studying the human microbiota.

Weinstock GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Institute, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
gweinsto@genome.wustl.edu

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2013 Apr;13(4):829.

The human body is colonized by a vast array of microbes, which form communities
of bacteria, viruses and microbial eukaryotes that are specific to each
anatomical environment. Every community must be studied as a whole because many
organisms have never been cultured independently, and this poses formidable
challenges. The advent of next-generation DNA sequencing has allowed more
sophisticated analysis and sampling of these complex systems by
culture-independent methods. These methods are revealing differences in community
structure between anatomical sites, between individuals, and between healthy and 
diseased states, and are transforming our view of human biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11553 
PMCID: PMC3665339
PMID: 22972298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):242-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11552.

Functional interactions between the gut microbiota and host metabolism.

Tremaroli V(1), Bäckhed F.

Author information: 
(1)Wallenberg Laboratory for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research, Sahlgrenska
University Hospital, 413 45 Gothenburg, Sweden.

The link between the microbes in the human gut and the development of obesity,
cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndromes, such as type 2 diabetes, is
becoming clearer. However, because of the complexity of the microbial community, 
the functional connections are less well understood. Studies in both mice and
humans are helping to show what effect the gut microbiota has on host metabolism 
by improving energy yield from food and modulating dietary or the host-derived
compounds that alter host metabolic pathways. Through increased knowledge of the 
mechanisms involved in the interactions between the microbiota and its host, we
will be in a better position to develop treatments for metabolic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11552 
PMID: 22972297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):231-41. doi: 10.1038/nature11551.

Reciprocal interactions of the intestinal microbiota and immune system.

Maynard CL(1), Elson CO, Hatton RD, Weaver CT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
Alabama, USA.

The emergence of the adaptive immune system in vertebrates set the stage for
evolution of an advanced symbiotic relationship with the intestinal microbiota.
The defining features of specificity and memory that characterize adaptive
immunity have afforded vertebrates the mechanisms for efficiently tailoring
immune responses to diverse types of microbes, whether to promote mutualism or
host defence. These same attributes can put the host at risk of immune-mediated
diseases that are increasingly linked to the intestinal microbiota. Understanding
how the adaptive immune system copes with the remarkable number and diversity of 
microbes that colonize the digestive tract, and how the system integrates with
more primitive innate immune mechanisms to maintain immune homeostasis, holds
considerable promise for new approaches to modulate immune networks to treat and 
prevent disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11551 
PMCID: PMC4492337
PMID: 22972296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):220-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11550.

Diversity, stability and resilience of the human gut microbiota.

Lozupone CA(1), Stombaugh JI, Gordon JI, Jansson JK, Knight R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2013 Apr;13(4):829.

Trillions of microbes inhabit the human intestine, forming a complex ecological
community that influences normal physiology and susceptibility to disease through
its collective metabolic activities and host interactions. Understanding the
factors that underlie changes in the composition and function of the gut
microbiota will aid in the design of therapies that target it. This goal is
formidable. The gut microbiota is immensely diverse, varies between individuals
and can fluctuate over time - especially during disease and early development.
Viewing the microbiota from an ecological perspective could provide insight into 
how to promote health by targeting this microbial community in clinical
treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11550 
PMCID: PMC3577372
PMID: 22972295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):286-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11410.

Ploughing the deep sea floor.

Puig P(1), Canals M, Company JB, Martín J, Amblas D, Lastras G, Palanques A.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Sciences Institute, CSIC, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain. ppuig@icm.csic.es

Bottom trawling is a non-selective commercial fishing technique whereby heavy
nets and gear are pulled along the sea floor. The direct impact of this technique
on fish populations and benthic communities has received much attention, but
trawling can also modify the physical properties of seafloor sediments,
water–sediment chemical exchanges and sediment fluxes. Most of the studies
addressing the physical disturbances of trawl gear on the seabed have been
undertaken in coastal and shelf environments, however, where the capacity of
trawling to modify the seafloor morphology coexists with high-energy natural
processes driving sediment erosion, transport and deposition. Here we show that
on upper continental slopes, the reworking of the deep sea floor by trawling
gradually modifies the shape of the submarine landscape over large spatial
scales. We found that trawling-induced sediment displacement and removal from
fishing grounds causes the morphology of the deep sea floor to become smoother
over time, reducing its original complexity as shown by high-resolution seafloor 
relief maps. Our results suggest that in recent decades, following the
industrialization of fishing fleets, bottom trawling has become an important
driver of deep seascape evolution. Given the global dimension of this type of
fishery, we anticipate that the morphology of the upper continental slope in many
parts of the world’s oceans could be altered by intensive bottom trawling,
producing comparable effects on the deep sea floor to those generated by
agricultural ploughing on land.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11410 
PMID: 22951970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature11472.

Quantum teleportation over 143 kilometres using active feed-forward.

Ma XS(1), Herbst T, Scheidl T, Wang D, Kropatschek S, Naylor W, Wittmann B, Mech 
A, Kofler J, Anisimova E, Makarov V, Jennewein T, Ursin R, Zeilinger A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Austrian Academy of
Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

The quantum internet is predicted to be the next-generation information
processing platform, promising secure communication and an exponential speed-up
in distributed computation. The distribution of single qubits over large
distances via quantum teleportation is a key ingredient for realizing such a
global platform. By using quantum teleportation, unknown quantum states can be
transferred over arbitrary distances to a party whose location is unknown. Since 
the first experimental demonstrations of quantum teleportation of independent
external qubits, an internal qubit and squeezed states, researchers have
progressively extended the communication distance. Usually this occurs without
active feed-forward of the classical Bell-state measurement result, which is an
essential ingredient in future applications such as communication between quantum
computers. The benchmark for a global quantum internet is quantum teleportation
of independent qubits over a free-space link whose attenuation corresponds to the
path between a satellite and a ground station. Here we report such an experiment,
using active feed-forward in real time. The experiment uses two free-space
optical links, quantum and classical, over 143 kilometres between the two Canary 
Islands of La Palma and Tenerife. To achieve this, we combine advanced techniques
involving a frequency-uncorrelated polarization-entangled photon pair source,
ultra-low-noise single-photon detectors and entanglement-assisted clock
synchronization. The average teleported state fidelity is well beyond the
classical limit of two-thirds. Furthermore, we confirm the quality of the quantum
teleportation procedure without feed-forward by complete quantum process
tomography. Our experiment verifies the maturity and applicability of such
technologies in real-world scenarios, in particular for future satellite-based
quantum teleportation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11472 
PMID: 22951967 


314. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):282-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11390.

Observations of increased tropical rainfall preceded by air passage over forests.

Spracklen DV(1), Arnold SR, Taylor CM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
d.v.spracklen@leeds.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 21;494(7437):390.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):217-8.

Vegetation affects precipitation patterns by mediating moisture, energy and
trace-gas fluxes between the surface and atmosphere. When forests are replaced by
pasture or crops, evapotranspiration of moisture from soil and vegetation is
often diminished, leading to reduced atmospheric humidity and potentially
suppressing precipitation. Climate models predict that large-scale tropical
deforestation causes reduced regional precipitation, although the magnitude of
the effect is model and resolution dependent. In contrast, observational studies 
have linked deforestation to increased precipitation locally but have been unable
to explore the impact of large-scale deforestation. Here we use satellite
remote-sensing data of tropical precipitation and vegetation, combined with
simulated atmospheric transport patterns, to assess the pan-tropical effect of
forests on tropical rainfall. We find that for more than 60 per cent of the
tropical land surface (latitudes 30 degrees south to 30 degrees north), air that 
has passed over extensive vegetation in the preceding few days produces at least 
twice as much rain as air that has passed over little vegetation. We demonstrate 
that this empirical correlation is consistent with evapotranspiration maintaining
atmospheric moisture in air that passes over extensive vegetation. We combine
these empirical relationships with current trends of Amazonian deforestation to
estimate reductions of 12 and 21 per cent in wet-season and dry-season
precipitation respectively across the Amazon basin by 2050, due to less-efficient
moisture recycling. Our observation-based results complement similar estimates
from climate models, in which the physical mechanisms and feedbacks at work could
be explored in more detail.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11390 
PMID: 22951966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):257-62. doi: 10.1038/nature11393.

Distinct contribution of stem and progenitor cells to epidermal maintenance.

Mascré G(1), Dekoninck S, Drogat B, Youssef KK, Broheé S, Sotiropoulou PA, Simons
BD, Blanpain C.

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles, IRIBHM, Brussels B-1070, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Oct;13(10):605.
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):215-7.

The skin interfollicular epidermis (IFE) is the first barrier against the
external environment and its maintenance is critical for survival. Two seemingly 
opposite theories have been proposed to explain IFE homeostasis. One posits that 
IFE is maintained by long-lived slow-cycling stem cells that give rise to
transit-amplifying cell progeny, whereas the other suggests that homeostasis is
achieved by a single committed progenitor population that balances stochastic
fate. Here we probe the cellular heterogeneity within the IFE using two different
inducible Cre recombinase–oestrogen receptor constructs targeting IFE progenitors
in mice. Quantitative analysis of clonal fate data and proliferation dynamics
demonstrate the existence of two distinct proliferative cell compartments
arranged in a hierarchy involving slow-cycling stem cells and committed
progenitor cells. After wounding, only stem cells contribute substantially to the
repair and long-term regeneration of the tissue, whereas committed progenitor
cells make a limited contribution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11393 
PMID: 22940863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):318-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11432.

Impact of caloric restriction on health and survival in rhesus monkeys from the
NIA study.

Mattison JA(1), Roth GS, Beasley TM, Tilmont EM, Handy AM, Herbert RL, Longo DL, 
Allison DB, Young JE, Bryant M, Barnard D, Ward WF, Qi W, Ingram DK, de Cabo R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Gerontology, National Institute on Aging, NIH
Animal Center, Dickerson, Maryland 20842, USA. mattisonj@mail.nih.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):210-11.

Calorie restriction (CR), a reduction of 10–40% in intake of a nutritious diet,
is often reported as the most robust non-genetic mechanism to extend lifespan and
healthspan. CR is frequently used as a tool to understand mechanisms behind
ageing and age-associated diseases. In addition to and independently of
increasing lifespan, CR has been reported to delay or prevent the occurrence of
many chronic diseases in a variety of animals. Beneficial effects of CR on
outcomes such as immune function, motor coordination and resistance to sarcopenia
in rhesus monkeys have recently been reported. We report here that a CR regimen
implemented in young and older age rhesus monkeys at the National Institute on
Aging (NIA) has not improved survival outcomes. Our findings contrast with an
ongoing study at the Wisconsin National Primate Research Center (WNPRC), which
reported improved survival associated with 30% CR initiated in adult rhesus
monkeys (7–14 years) and a preliminary report with a small number of CR monkeys. 
Over the years, both NIA and WNPRC have extensively documented beneficial health 
effects of CR in these two apparently parallel studies. The implications of the
WNPRC findings were important as they extended CR findings beyond the laboratory 
rodent and to a long-lived primate. Our study suggests a separation between
health effects, morbidity and mortality, and similar to what has been shown in
rodents, study design, husbandry and diet composition may strongly affect the
life-prolonging effect of CR in a long-lived nonhuman primate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11432 
PMCID: PMC3832985
PMID: 22932268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):263-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11315.

RPN-6 determines C. elegans longevity under proteotoxic stress conditions.

Vilchez D(1), Morantte I, Liu Z, Douglas PM, Merkwirth C, Rodrigues AP, Manning
G, Dillin A.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Glenn Center for Aging Research, Molecular
and Cell Biology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Organisms that protect their germ-cell lineages from damage often do so at
considerable cost: limited metabolic resources become partitioned away from
maintenance of the soma, leaving the ageing somatic tissues to navigate survival 
amid an environment containing damaged and poorly functioning proteins.
Historically, experimental paradigms that limit reproductive investment result in
lifespan extension. We proposed that germline-deficient animals might exhibit
heightened protection from proteotoxic stressors in somatic tissues. We find that
the forced re-investment of resources from the germ line to the soma in
Caenorhabditis elegans results in elevated somatic proteasome activity, clearance
of damaged proteins and increased longevity. This activity is associated with
increased expression of rpn-6, a subunit of the 19S proteasome, by the FOXO
transcription factor DAF-16. Ectopic expression of rpn-6 is sufficient to confer 
proteotoxic stress resistance and extend lifespan, indicating that rpn-6 is a
candidate to correct deficiencies in age-related protein homeostasis disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11315 
PMID: 22922647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):299-303. doi: 10.1038/nature11321.

Activity in motor-sensory projections reveals distributed coding in
somatosensation.

Petreanu L(1), Gutnisky DA, Huber D, Xu NL, O'Connor DH, Tian L, Looger L,
Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147, USA.

Cortical-feedback projections to primary sensory areas terminate most heavily in 
layer 1 (L1) of the neocortex, where they make synapses with tuft dendrites of
pyramidal neurons. L1 input is thought to provide ‘contextual’ information, but
the signals transmitted by L1 feedback remain uncharacterized. In the rodent
somatosensory system, the spatially diffuse feedback projection from vibrissal
motor cortex (vM1) to vibrissal somatosensory cortex (vS1, also known as the
barrel cortex) may allow whisker touch to be interpreted in the context of
whisker position to compute object location. When mice palpate objects with their
whiskers to localize object features, whisker touch excites vS1 and later vM1 in 
a somatotopic manner. Here we use axonal calcium imaging to track activity in
vM1-->vS1 afferents in L1 of the barrel cortex while mice performed
whisker-dependent object localization. Spatially intermingled individual axons
represent whisker movements, touch and other behavioural features. In a
subpopulation of axons, activity depends on object location and persists for
seconds after touch. Neurons in the barrel cortex thus have information to
integrate movements and touches of multiple whiskers over time, key components of
object identification and navigation by active touch.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11321 
PMCID: PMC3443316
PMID: 22922646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):278-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11411.

Stereocontrolled organocatalytic synthesis of prostaglandin PGF2α in seven steps.

Coulthard G(1), Erb W, Aggarwal VK.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock’s Close, Bristol BS8 1TS, 
UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):214-5.

Prostaglandins are hormone-like chemical messengers that regulate a broad range
of physiological activities, including blood circulation, digestion and
reproduction. Their biological activities and their complex molecular
architectures have made prostaglandins popular targets for synthetic organic
chemists for over 40 years. Prostaglandin analogues are widely used as
pharmaceuticals and some, such as latanoprost, which is used to treat glaucoma,
have become billion-dollar drugs. Previously reported syntheses of these
compounds are quite lengthy, and every chemical step costs time and energy,
generates waste and is accompanied by material losses. Using a new bond
disconnection, here we report a concise synthesis of the most complex
prostaglandin, PGF2α, with high levels of control of relative and absolute
stereochemistry, and fewer steps. The key step is an aldol cascade reaction of
succinaldehyde using proline organocatalysis to create a bicyclic enal in one
step and an enantiomeric excess of 98%. This intermediate bicyclic enal is fully 
primed with the appropriate functionality for attachment of the remaining groups.
Access to this bicyclic enal will not only render existing prostaglandin-based
drugs more affordable, but will also facilitate the rapid exploration of related 
chemical structures around the ubiquitous five-membered ring motif, such as
potentially therapeutic prostaglandin analogues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11411 
PMID: 22895192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):313-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11316.

HDAC8 mutations in Cornelia de Lange syndrome affect the cohesin acetylation
cycle.

Deardorff MA(1), Bando M, Nakato R, Watrin E, Itoh T, Minamino M, Saitoh K,
Komata M, Katou Y, Clark D, Cole KE, De Baere E, Decroos C, Di Donato N, Ernst S,
Francey LJ, Gyftodimou Y, Hirashima K, Hullings M, Ishikawa Y, Jaulin C, Kaur M, 
Kiyono T, Lombardi PM, Magnaghi-Jaulin L, Mortier GR, Nozaki N, Petersen MB,
Seimiya H, Siu VM, Suzuki Y, Takagaki K, Wilde JJ, Willems PJ, Prigent C,
Gillessen-Kaesbach G, Christianson DW, Kaiser FJ, Jackson LG, Hirota T, Krantz
ID, Shirahige K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Genetics and Molecular Biology, The Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. deardorff@email.chop.edu

Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) is a dominantly inherited congenital
malformation disorder, caused by mutations in the cohesin-loading protein NIPBL
for nearly 60% of individuals with classical CdLS, and by mutations in the core
cohesin components SMC1A (~5%) and SMC3 (<1%) for a smaller fraction of probands.
In humans, the multisubunit complex cohesin is made up of SMC1, SMC3, RAD21 and a
STAG protein. These form a ring structure that is proposed to encircle sister
chromatids to mediate sister chromatid cohesion and also has key roles in gene
regulation. SMC3 is acetylated during S-phase to establish cohesiveness of
chromatin-loaded cohesin, and in yeast, the class I histone deacetylase Hos1
deacetylates SMC3 during anaphase. Here we identify HDAC8 as the vertebrate SMC3 
deacetylase, as well as loss-of-function HDAC8 mutations in six CdLS probands.
Loss of HDAC8 activity results in increased SMC3 acetylation and inefficient
dissolution of the ‘used’ cohesin complex released from chromatin in both
prophase and anaphase. SMC3 with retained acetylation is loaded onto chromatin,
and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analysis demonstrates decreased
occupancy of cohesin localization sites that results in a consistent pattern of
altered transcription seen in CdLS cell lines with either NIPBL or HDAC8
mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11316 
PMCID: PMC3443318
PMID: 22885700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):309-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11309.

Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is driven by antigen-independent cell-autonomous
signalling.

Dühren-von Minden M(1), Übelhart R, Schneider D, Wossning T, Bach MP, Buchner M, 
Hofmann D, Surova E, Follo M, Köhler F, Wardemann H, Zirlik K, Veelken H, Jumaa
H.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biological Signaling Studies (BIOSS), Albert-Ludwigs Universität
Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany.

B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) expression is an important feature of chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), one of the most prevalent B-cell neoplasias in
Western countries. The presence of stereotyped and quasi-identical BCRs in
different CLL patients suggests that recognition of specific antigens might drive
CLL pathogenesis. Here we show that, in contrast to other B-cell neoplasias,
CLL-derived BCRs induce antigen-independent cell-autonomous signalling, which is 
dependent on the heavy-chain complementarity-determining region (HCDR3) and an
internal epitope of the BCR. Indeed, transferring the HCDR3 of a CLL-derived BCR 
provides autonomous signalling capacity to a non-autonomously active BCR, whereas
mutations in the internal epitope abolish this capacity. Because BCR expression
was required for the binding of secreted CLL-derived BCRs to target cells, and
mutations in the internal epitope reduced this binding, our results indicate a
new model for CLL pathogenesis, with cell-autonomous antigen-independent
signalling as a crucial pathogenic mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11309 
PMID: 22885698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):322-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11317.

Human ES-cell-derived cardiomyocytes electrically couple and suppress arrhythmias
in injured hearts.

Shiba Y(1), Fernandes S, Zhu WZ, Filice D, Muskheli V, Kim J, Palpant NJ, Gantz
J, Moyes KW, Reinecke H, Van Biber B, Dardas T, Mignone JL, Izawa A, Hanna R,
Viswanathan M, Gold JD, Kotlikoff MI, Sarvazyan N, Kay MW, Murry CE, Laflamme MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Center for Cardiovascular Biology, Institute for Stem
Cell and Regenerative Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98109, USA.

Transplantation studies in mice and rats have shown that human
embryonic-stem-cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hESC-CMs) can improve the function of
infarcted hearts, but two critical issues related to their electrophysiological
behaviour in vivo remain unresolved. First, the risk of arrhythmias following
hESC-CM transplantation in injured hearts has not been determined. Second, the
electromechanical integration of hESC-CMs in injured hearts has not been
demonstrated, so it is unclear whether these cells improve contractile function
directly through addition of new force-generating units. Here we use a guinea-pig
model to show that hESC-CM grafts in injured hearts protect against arrhythmias
and can contract synchronously with host muscle. Injured hearts with hESC-CM
grafts show improved mechanical function and a significantly reduced incidence of
both spontaneous and induced ventricular tachycardia. To assess the activity of
hESC-CM grafts in vivo, we transplanted hESC-CMs expressing the genetically
encoded calcium sensor, GCaMP3 (refs 4, 5). By correlating the GCaMP3 fluorescent
signal with the host ECG, we found that grafts in uninjured hearts have
consistent 1:1 host–graft coupling. Grafts in injured hearts are more
heterogeneous and typically include both coupled and uncoupled regions. Thus,
human myocardial grafts meet physiological criteria for true heart regeneration, 
providing support for the continued development of hESC-based cardiac therapies
for both mechanical and electrical repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11317 
PMCID: PMC3443324
PMID: 22864415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):290-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11318.

Averting biodiversity collapse in tropical forest protected areas.

Laurance WF(1), Useche DC, Rendeiro J, Kalka M, Bradshaw CJ, Sloan SP, Laurance
SG, Campbell M, Abernethy K, Alvarez P, Arroyo-Rodriguez V, Ashton P,
Benítez-Malvido J, Blom A, Bobo KS, Cannon CH, Cao M, Carroll R, Chapman C,
Coates R, Cords M, Danielsen F, De Dijn B, Dinerstein E, Donnelly MA, Edwards D, 
Edwards F, Farwig N, Fashing P, Forget PM, Foster M, Gale G, Harris D, Harrison
R, Hart J, Karpanty S, Kress WJ, Krishnaswamy J, Logsdon W, Lovett J, Magnusson
W, Maisels F, Marshall AR, McClearn D, Mudappa D, Nielsen MR, Pearson R, Pitman
N, van der Ploeg J, Plumptre A, Poulsen J, Quesada M, Rainey H, Robinson D,
Roetgers C, Rovero F, Scatena F, Schulze C, Sheil D, Struhsaker T, Terborgh J,
Thomas D, Timm R, Urbina-Cardona JN, Vasudevan K, Wright SJ, Arias-G JC, Arroyo
L, Ashton M, Auzel P, Babaasa D, Babweteera F, Baker P, Banki O, Bass M,
Bila-Isia I, Blake S, Brockelman W, Brokaw N, Brühl CA, Bunyavejchewin S, Chao
JT, Chave J, Chellam R, Clark CJ, Clavijo J, Congdon R, Corlett R, Dattaraja HS, 
Dave C, Davies G, Beisiegel Bde M, da Silva Rde N, Di Fiore A, Diesmos A, Dirzo
R, Doran-Sheehy D, Eaton M, Emmons L, Estrada A, Ewango C, Fedigan L, Feer F,
Fruth B, Willis JG, Goodale U, Goodman S, Guix JC, Guthiga P, Haber W, Hamer K,
Herbinger I, Hill J, Huang Z, Sun IF, Ickes K, Itoh A, Ivanauskas N, Jackes B,
Janovec J, Janzen D, Jiangming M, Jin C, Jones T, Justiniano H, Kalko E,
Kasangaki A, Killeen T, King HB, Klop E, Knott C, Koné I, Kudavidanage E, Ribeiro
JL, Lattke J, Laval R, Lawton R, Leal M, Leighton M, Lentino M, Leonel C,
Lindsell J, Ling-Ling L, Linsenmair KE, Losos E, Lugo A, Lwanga J, Mack AL,
Martins M, McGraw WS, McNab R, Montag L, Thompson JM, Nabe-Nielsen J, Nakagawa M,
Nepal S, Norconk M, Novotny V, O'Donnell S, Opiang M, Ouboter P, Parker K,
Parthasarathy N, Pisciotta K, Prawiradilaga D, Pringle C, Rajathurai S, Reichard 
U, Reinartz G, Renton K, Reynolds G, Reynolds V, Riley E, Rödel MO, Rothman J,
Round P, Sakai S, Sanaiotti T, Savini T, Schaab G, Seidensticker J, Siaka A,
Silman MR, Smith TB, de Almeida SS, Sodhi N, Stanford C, Stewart K, Stokes E,
Stoner KE, Sukumar R, Surbeck M, Tobler M, Tscharntke T, Turkalo A, Umapathy G,
van Weerd M, Rivera JV, Venkataraman M, Venn L, Verea C, de Castilho CV, Waltert 
M, Wang B, Watts D, Weber W, West P, Whitacre D, Whitney K, Wilkie D, Williams S,
Wright DD, Wright P, Xiankai L, Yonzon P, Zamzani F.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Tropical Environmental and Sustainability Science and School of
Marine and Tropical Biology, James Cook University, Cairns, Queensland 4878,
Australia. bill.laurance@jcu.edu.au

The rapid disruption of tropical forests probably imperils global biodiversity
more than any other contemporary phenomenon. With deforestation advancing
quickly, protected areas are increasingly becoming final refuges for threatened
species and natural ecosystem processes. However, many protected areas in the
tropics are themselves vulnerable to human encroachment and other environmental
stresses. As pressures mount, it is vital to know whether existing reserves can
sustain their biodiversity. A critical constraint in addressing this question has
been that data describing a broad array of biodiversity groups have been
unavailable for a sufficiently large and representative sample of reserves. Here 
we present a uniquely comprehensive data set on changes over the past 20 to 30
years in 31 functional groups of species and 21 potential drivers of
environmental change, for 60 protected areas stratified across the world’s major 
tropical regions. Our analysis reveals great variation in reserve ‘health’: about
half of all reserves have been effective or performed passably, but the rest are 
experiencing an erosion of biodiversity that is often alarmingly widespread
taxonomically and functionally. Habitat disruption, hunting and forest-product
exploitation were the strongest predictors of declining reserve health.
Crucially, environmental changes immediately outside reserves seemed nearly as
important as those inside in determining their ecological fate, with changes
inside reserves strongly mirroring those occurring around them. These findings
suggest that tropical protected areas are often intimately linked ecologically to
their surrounding habitats, and that a failure to stem broad-scale loss and
degradation of such habitats could sharply increase the likelihood of serious
biodiversity declines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11318 
PMID: 22832582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):133-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11409.

Highly stretchable and tough hydrogels.

Sun JY(1), Zhao X, Illeperuma WR, Chaudhuri O, Oh KH, Mooney DJ, Vlassak JJ, Suo 
Z.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):36-7.

Hydrogels are used as scaffolds for tissue engineering, vehicles for drug
delivery, actuators for optics and fluidics, and model extracellular matrices for
biological studies. The scope of hydrogel applications, however, is often
severely limited by their mechanical behaviour. Most hydrogels do not exhibit
high stretchability; for example, an alginate hydrogel ruptures when stretched to
about 1.2 times its original length. Some synthetic elastic hydrogels have
achieved stretches in the range 10-20, but these values are markedly reduced in
samples containing notches. Most hydrogels are brittle, with fracture energies of
about 10 J m(-2) (ref. 8), as compared with ∼1,000 J m(-2) for cartilage and
∼10,000 J m(-2) for natural rubbers. Intense efforts are devoted to synthesizing 
hydrogels with improved mechanical properties; certain synthetic gels have
reached fracture energies of 100-1,000 J m(-2) (refs 11, 14, 17). Here we report 
the synthesis of hydrogels from polymers forming ionically and covalently
crosslinked networks. Although such gels contain ∼90% water, they can be
stretched beyond 20 times their initial length, and have fracture energies of
∼9,000 J m(-2). Even for samples containing notches, a stretch of 17 is
demonstrated. We attribute the gels' toughness to the synergy of two mechanisms: 
crack bridging by the network of covalent crosslinks, and hysteresis by unzipping
the network of ionic crosslinks. Furthermore, the network of covalent crosslinks 
preserves the memory of the initial state, so that much of the large deformation 
is removed on unloading. The unzipped ionic crosslinks cause internal damage,
which heals by re-zipping. These gels may serve as model systems to explore
mechanisms of deformation and energy dissipation, and expand the scope of
hydrogel applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11409 
PMCID: PMC3642868
PMID: 22955625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11434.

Flexible metal-oxide devices made by room-temperature photochemical activation of
sol-gel films.

Kim YH(1), Heo JS, Kim TH, Park S, Yoon MH, Kim J, Oh MS, Yi GR, Noh YY, Park SK.

Author information: 
(1)Flexible Display Research Center, Korea Electronics Technology Institute,
Seongnam 463-816, Korea.

Amorphous metal-oxide semiconductors have emerged as potential replacements for
organic and silicon materials in thin-film electronics. The high carrier mobility
in the amorphous state, and excellent large-area uniformity, have extended their 
applications to active-matrix electronics, including displays, sensor arrays and 
X-ray detectors. Moreover, their solution processability and optical transparency
have opened new horizons for low-cost printable and transparent electronics on
plastic substrates. But metal-oxide formation by the sol-gel route requires an
annealing step at relatively high temperature, which has prevented the
incorporation of these materials with the polymer substrates used in
high-performance flexible electronics. Here we report a general method for
forming high-performance and operationally stable metal-oxide semiconductors at
room temperature, by deep-ultraviolet photochemical activation of sol-gel films. 
Deep-ultraviolet irradiation induces efficient condensation and densification of 
oxide semiconducting films by photochemical activation at low temperature. This
photochemical activation is applicable to numerous metal-oxide semiconductors,
and the performance (in terms of transistor mobility and operational stability)
of thin-film transistors fabricated by this route compares favourably with that
of thin-film transistors based on thermally annealed materials. The field-effect 
mobilities of the photo-activated metal-oxide semiconductors are as high as 14
and 7 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1) (with an Al(2)O(3) gate insulator) on glass and polymer
substrates, respectively; and seven-stage ring oscillators fabricated on polymer 
substrates operate with an oscillation frequency of more than 340 kHz,
corresponding to a propagation delay of less than 210 nanoseconds per stage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11434 
PMID: 22955624 


326. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):124-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11441.

No meridional plasma flow in the heliosheath transition region.

Decker RB(1), Krimigis SM, Roelof EC, Hill ME.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Physics Laboratory, The Johns Hopkins University, Laurel, Maryland
20723, USA. robert.decker@jhuapl.edu

Over a two-year period, Voyager 1 observed a gradual slowing-down of radial
plasma flow in the heliosheath to near-zero velocity after April 2010 at a
distance of 113.5 astronomical units from the Sun (1 astronomical unit equals
1.5 × 10(8) kilometres). Voyager 1 was then about 20 astronomical units beyond
the shock that terminates the free expansion of the solar wind and was immersed
in the heated non-thermal plasma region called the heliosheath. The expectation
from contemporary simulations was that the heliosheath plasma would be deflected 
from radial flow to meridional flow (in solar heliospheric coordinates), which at
Voyager 1 would lie mainly on the (locally spherical) surface called the
heliopause. This surface is supposed to separate the heliosheath plasma, which is
of solar origin, from the interstellar plasma, which is of local Galactic origin.
In 2011, the Voyager project began occasional temporary re-orientations of the
spacecraft (totalling about 10-25 hours every 2 months) to re-align the
Low-Energy Charged Particle instrument on board Voyager 1 so that it could
measure meridional flow. Here we report that, contrary to expectations, these
observations yielded a meridional flow velocity of +3 ± 11 km s(-1), that is, one
consistent with zero within statistical uncertainties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11441 
PMID: 22955623 


327. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):121-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11407.

Observation of interstellar lithium in the low-metallicity Small Magellanic
Cloud.

Howk JC(1), Lehner N, Fields BD, Mathews GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Center for Astrophysics, University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA. jhowk@nd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):37-8.

The primordial abundances of light elements produced in the standard theory of
Big Bang nucleosynthesis (BBN) depend only on the cosmic ratio of baryons to
photons, a quantity inferred from observations of the microwave background. The
predicted primordial (7)Li abundance is four times that measured in the
atmospheres of Galactic halo stars. This discrepancy could be caused by
modification of surface lithium abundances during the stars' lifetimes or by
physics beyond the Standard Model that affects early nucleosynthesis. The lithium
abundance of low-metallicity gas provides an alternative constraint on the
primordial abundance and cosmic evolution of lithium that is not susceptible to
the in situ modifications that may affect stellar atmospheres. Here we report
observations of interstellar (7)Li in the low-metallicity gas of the Small
Magellanic Cloud, a nearby galaxy with a quarter the Sun's metallicity. The
present-day (7)Li abundance of the Small Magellanic Cloud is nearly equal to the 
BBN predictions, severely constraining the amount of possible subsequent
enrichment of the gas by stellar and cosmic-ray nucleosynthesis. Our measurements
can be reconciled with standard BBN with an extremely fine-tuned depletion of
stellar Li with metallicity. They are also consistent with non-standard BBN.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11407 
PMID: 22955622 


328. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11279.

The long-range interaction landscape of gene promoters.

Sanyal A(1), Lajoie BR, Jain G, Dekker J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605-0103, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Oct;13(10):678.

The vast non-coding portion of the human genome is full of functional elements
and disease-causing regulatory variants. The principles defining the
relationships between these elements and distal target genes remain unknown.
Promoters and distal elements can engage in looping interactions that have been
implicated in gene regulation. Here we have applied chromosome conformation
capture carbon copy (5C) to interrogate comprehensively interactions between
transcription start sites (TSSs) and distal elements in 1% of the human genome
representing the ENCODE pilot project regions. 5C maps were generated for
GM12878, K562 and HeLa-S3 cells and results were integrated with data from the
ENCODE consortium. In each cell line we discovered >1,000 long-range interactions
between promoters and distal sites that include elements resembling enhancers,
promoters and CTCF-bound sites. We observed significant correlations between gene
expression, promoter-enhancer interactions and the presence of enhancer RNAs.
Long-range interactions show marked asymmetry with a bias for interactions with
elements located ∼120 kilobases upstream of the TSS. Long-range interactions are 
often not blocked by sites bound by CTCF and cohesin, indicating that many of
these sites do not demarcate physically insulated gene domains. Furthermore, only
∼7% of looping interactions are with the nearest gene, indicating that genomic
proximity is not a simple predictor for long-range interactions. Finally,
promoters and distal elements are engaged in multiple long-range interactions to 
form complex networks. Our results start to place genes and regulatory elements
in three-dimensional context, revealing their functional relationships.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11279 
PMCID: PMC3555147
PMID: 22955621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):101-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11233.

Landscape of transcription in human cells.

Djebali S(1), Davis CA, Merkel A, Dobin A, Lassmann T, Mortazavi A, Tanzer A,
Lagarde J, Lin W, Schlesinger F, Xue C, Marinov GK, Khatun J, Williams BA,
Zaleski C, Rozowsky J, Röder M, Kokocinski F, Abdelhamid RF, Alioto T,
Antoshechkin I, Baer MT, Bar NS, Batut P, Bell K, Bell I, Chakrabortty S, Chen X,
Chrast J, Curado J, Derrien T, Drenkow J, Dumais E, Dumais J, Duttagupta R,
Falconnet E, Fastuca M, Fejes-Toth K, Ferreira P, Foissac S, Fullwood MJ, Gao H, 
Gonzalez D, Gordon A, Gunawardena H, Howald C, Jha S, Johnson R, Kapranov P, King
B, Kingswood C, Luo OJ, Park E, Persaud K, Preall JB, Ribeca P, Risk B, Robyr D, 
Sammeth M, Schaffer L, See LH, Shahab A, Skancke J, Suzuki AM, Takahashi H,
Tilgner H, Trout D, Walters N, Wang H, Wrobel J, Yu Y, Ruan X, Hayashizaki Y,
Harrow J, Gerstein M, Hubbard T, Reymond A, Antonarakis SE, Hannon G, Giddings
MC, Ruan Y, Wold B, Carninci P, Guigó R, Gingeras TR.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Genomic Regulation and UPF, Doctor Aiguader 88, Barcelona 08003,
Catalonia, Spain.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2014;15(4):112.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Oct;13(10):678.

Eukaryotic cells make many types of primary and processed RNAs that are found
either in specific subcellular compartments or throughout the cells. A complete
catalogue of these RNAs is not yet available and their characteristic subcellular
localizations are also poorly understood. Because RNA represents the direct
output of the genetic information encoded by genomes and a significant proportion
of a cell's regulatory capabilities are focused on its synthesis, processing,
transport, modification and translation, the generation of such a catalogue is
crucial for understanding genome function. Here we report evidence that
three-quarters of the human genome is capable of being transcribed, as well as
observations about the range and levels of expression, localization, processing
fates, regulatory regions and modifications of almost all currently annotated and
thousands of previously unannotated RNAs. These observations, taken together,
prompt a redefinition of the concept of a gene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11233 
PMCID: PMC3684276
PMID: 22955620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):91-100. doi: 10.1038/nature11245.

Architecture of the human regulatory network derived from ENCODE data.

Gerstein MB(#)(1)(2)(3), Kundaje A(#)(4), Hariharan M(#)(5), Landt SG(#)(5), Yan 
KK(#)(1)(2), Cheng C(#)(1)(2), Mu XJ(#)(1), Khurana E(#)(1)(2), Rozowsky J(#)(2),
Alexander R(#)(1)(2), Min R(#)(1)(2)(6), Alves P(#)(1), Abyzov A(1)(2), Addleman 
N(5), Bhardwaj N(1)(2), Boyle AP(5), Cayting P(5), Charos A(7), Chen DZ(2), Cheng
Y(5), Clarke D(8), Eastman C(5), Euskirchen G(5), Frietze S(9), Fu Y(1), Gertz
J(10), Grubert F(5), Harmanci A(1)(2), Jain P(10), Kasowski M(5), Lacroute P(5), 
Leng JJ(1), Lian J(11), Monahan H(7), O'Geen H(12), Ouyang Z(5), Partridge
EC(10), Patacsil D(5), Pauli F(10), Raha D(7), Ramirez L(5), Reddy TE(10), Reed
B(7), Shi M(5), Slifer T(5), Wang J(1), Wu L(5), Yang X(5), Yip KY(1)(2)(13),
Zilberman-Schapira G(1), Batzoglou S(4), Sidow A(14), Farnham PJ(9), Myers
RM(10), Weissman SM(11), Snyder M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University, Bass
432, 266 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, 266
Whitney Ave, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.
(3)Department of Computer Science, Yale University, 51 Prospect Street, New
Haven, CT 06511, USA.
(4)Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, 318 Campus Drive,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(5)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Dr., M-344 Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA.
(6)Department of Machine Learning, NEC Laboratories America, 4 Independence Way, 
Princeton, NJ 08540, USA.
(7)Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, Yale University,
New Haven, CT 06520, USA.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Yale University, 225 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT
06520, USA.
(9)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, University of Southern
California, Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, 1450 Biggy Street, NRT 6503, Los 
Angeles, CA 90089, USA.
(10)HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 601 Genome Way, Huntsville, AL
35806, USA.
(11)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street,
New Haven, CT 06510, USA.
(12)Genome Center, University of California-Davis, 451 Health Sciences Drive,
Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(13)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(14)Department of Pathology, Stanford University, SUMC L235 (Edwards Bldg), 300
Pasteur Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Transcription factors bind in a combinatorial fashion to specify the on-and-off
states of genes; the ensemble of these binding events forms a regulatory network,
constituting the wiring diagram for a cell. To examine the principles of the
human transcriptional regulatory network, we determined the genomic binding
information of 119 transcription-related factors in over 450 distinct
experiments. We found the combinatorial, co-association of transcription factors 
to be highly context specific: distinct combinations of factors bind at specific 
genomic locations. In particular, there are significant differences in the
binding proximal and distal to genes. We organized all the transcription factor
binding into a hierarchy and integrated it with other genomic information (for
example, microRNA regulation), forming a dense meta-network. Factors at different
levels have different properties; for instance, top-level transcription factors
more strongly influence expression and middle-level ones co-regulate targets to
mitigate information-flow bottlenecks. Moreover, these co-regulations give rise
to many enriched network motifs (for example, noise-buffering feed-forward
loops). Finally, more connected network components are under stronger selection
and exhibit a greater degree of allele-specific activity (that is, differential
binding to the two parental alleles). The regulatory information obtained in this
study will be crucial for interpreting personal genome sequences and
understanding basic principles of human biology and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11245 
PMCID: PMC4154057
PMID: 22955619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):83-90. doi: 10.1038/nature11212.

An expansive human regulatory lexicon encoded in transcription factor footprints.

Neph S(1), Vierstra J, Stergachis AB, Reynolds AP, Haugen E, Vernot B, Thurman
RE, John S, Sandstrom R, Johnson AK, Maurano MT, Humbert R, Rynes E, Wang H, Vong
S, Lee K, Bates D, Diegel M, Roach V, Dunn D, Neri J, Schafer A, Hansen RS,
Kutyavin T, Giste E, Weaver M, Canfield T, Sabo P, Zhang M, Balasundaram G, Byron
R, MacCoss MJ, Akey JM, Bender MA, Groudine M, Kaul R, Stamatoyannopoulos JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Oct;13(10):678.

Regulatory factor binding to genomic DNA protects the underlying sequence from
cleavage by DNase I, leaving nucleotide-resolution footprints. Using genomic
DNase I footprinting across 41 diverse cell and tissue types, we detected 45
million transcription factor occupancy events within regulatory regions,
representing differential binding to 8.4 million distinct short sequence
elements. Here we show that this small genomic sequence compartment, roughly
twice the size of the exome, encodes an expansive repertoire of conserved
recognition sequences for DNA-binding proteins that nearly doubles the size of
the human cis-regulatory lexicon. We find that genetic variants affecting allelic
chromatin states are concentrated in footprints, and that these elements are
preferentially sheltered from DNA methylation. High-resolution DNase I cleavage
patterns mirror nucleotide-level evolutionary conservation and track the
crystallographic topography of protein-DNA interfaces, indicating that
transcription factor structure has been evolutionarily imprinted on the human
genome sequence. We identify a stereotyped 50-base-pair footprint that precisely 
defines the site of transcript origination within thousands of human promoters.
Finally, we describe a large collection of novel regulatory factor recognition
motifs that are highly conserved in both sequence and function, and exhibit
cell-selective occupancy patterns that closely parallel major regulators of
development, differentiation and pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11212 
PMCID: PMC3736582
PMID: 22955618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):75-82. doi: 10.1038/nature11232.

The accessible chromatin landscape of the human genome.

Thurman RE(1), Rynes E, Humbert R, Vierstra J, Maurano MT, Haugen E, Sheffield
NC, Stergachis AB, Wang H, Vernot B, Garg K, John S, Sandstrom R, Bates D,
Boatman L, Canfield TK, Diegel M, Dunn D, Ebersol AK, Frum T, Giste E, Johnson
AK, Johnson EM, Kutyavin T, Lajoie B, Lee BK, Lee K, London D, Lotakis D, Neph S,
Neri F, Nguyen ED, Qu H, Reynolds AP, Roach V, Safi A, Sanchez ME, Sanyal A,
Shafer A, Simon JM, Song L, Vong S, Weaver M, Yan Y, Zhang Z, Zhang Z, Lenhard B,
Tewari M, Dorschner MO, Hansen RS, Navas PA, Stamatoyannopoulos G, Iyer VR, Lieb 
JD, Sunyaev SR, Akey JM, Sabo PJ, Kaul R, Furey TS, Dekker J, Crawford GE,
Stamatoyannopoulos JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Oct;13(10):678.

DNase I hypersensitive sites (DHSs) are markers of regulatory DNA and have
underpinned the discovery of all classes of cis-regulatory elements including
enhancers, promoters, insulators, silencers and locus control regions. Here we
present the first extensive map of human DHSs identified through genome-wide
profiling in 125 diverse cell and tissue types. We identify ∼2.9 million DHSs
that encompass virtually all known experimentally validated cis-regulatory
sequences and expose a vast trove of novel elements, most with highly
cell-selective regulation. Annotating these elements using ENCODE data reveals
novel relationships between chromatin accessibility, transcription, DNA
methylation and regulatory factor occupancy patterns. We connect ∼580,000 distal 
DHSs with their target promoters, revealing systematic pairing of different
classes of distal DHSs and specific promoter types. Patterning of chromatin
accessibility at many regulatory regions is organized with dozens to hundreds of 
co-activated elements, and the transcellular DNase I sensitivity pattern at a
given region can predict cell-type-specific functional behaviours. The DHS
landscape shows signatures of recent functional evolutionary constraint. However,
the DHS compartment in pluripotent and immortalized cells exhibits higher
mutation rates than that in highly differentiated cells, exposing an unexpected
link between chromatin accessibility, proliferative potential and patterns of
human variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11232 
PMCID: PMC3721348
PMID: 22955617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):57-74. doi: 10.1038/nature11247.

An integrated encyclopedia of DNA elements in the human genome.

ENCODE Project Consortium.

Collaborators: Dunham I, Kundaje A, Aldred SF, Collins PJ, Davis CA, Doyle F,
Epstein CB, Frietze S, Harrow J, Kaul R, Khatun J, Lajoie BR, Landt SG, Lee BK,
Pauli F, Rosenbloom KR, Sabo P, Safi A, Sanyal A, Shoresh N, Simon JM, Song L,
Trinklein ND, Altshuler RC, Birney E, Brown JB, Cheng C, Djebali S, Dong X,
Dunham I, Ernst J, Furey TS, Gerstein M, Giardine B, Greven M, Hardison RC,
Harris RS, Herrero J, Hoffman MM, Iyer S, Kellis M, Khatun J, Kheradpour P,
Kundaje A, Lassmann T, Li Q, Lin X, Marinov GK, Merkel A, Mortazavi A, Parker SC,
Reddy TE, Rozowsky J, Schlesinger F, Thurman RE, Wang J, Ward LD, Whitfield TW,
Wilder SP, Wu W, Xi HS, Yip KY, Zhuang J, Pazin MJ, Lowdon RF, Dillon LA, Adams
LB, Kelly CJ, Zhang J, Wexler JR, Green ED, Good PJ, Feingold EA, Bernstein BE,
Birney E, Crawford GE, Dekker J, Elnitski L, Farnham PJ, Gerstein M, Giddings MC,
Gingeras TR, Green ED, Guigó R, Hardison RC, Hubbard TJ, Kellis M, Kent W, Lieb
JD, Margulies EH, Myers RM, Snyder M, Stamatoyannopoulos JA, Tenenbaum SA, Weng
Z, White KP, Wold B, Khatun J, Yu Y, Wrobel J, Risk BA, Gunawardena HP, Kuiper
HC, Maier CW, Xie L, Chen X, Giddings MC, Bernstein BE, Epstein CB, Shoresh N,
Ernst J, Kheradpour P, Mikkelsen TS, Gillespie S, Goren A, Ram O, Zhang X, Wang
L, Issner R, Coyne MJ, Durham T, Ku M, Truong T, Ward LD, Altshuler RC, Eaton ML,
Kellis M, Djebali S, Davis CA, Merkel A, Dobin A, Lassmann T, Mortazavi A, Tanzer
A, Lagarde J, Lin W, Schlesinger F, Xue C, Marinov GK, Khatun J, Williams BA,
Zaleski C, Rozowsky J, Röder M, Kokocinski F, Abdelhamid RF, Alioto T,
Antoshechkin I, Baer MT, Batut P, Bell I, Bell K, Chakrabortty S, Chen X, Chrast 
J, Curado J, Derrien T, Drenkow J, Dumais E, Dumais J, Duttagupta R, Fastuca M,
Fejes-Toth K, Ferreira P, Foissac S, Fullwood MJ, Gao H, Gonzalez D, Gordon A,
Gunawardena HP, Howald C, Jha S, Johnson R, Kapranov P, King B, Kingswood C, Li
G, Luo OJ, Park E, Preall JB, Presaud K, Ribeca P, Risk BA, Robyr D, Ruan X,
Sammeth M, Sandhu KS, Schaeffer L, See LH, Shahab A, Skancke J, Suzuki AM,
Takahashi H, Tilgner H, Trout D, Walters N, Wang H, Wrobel J, Yu Y, Hayashizaki
Y, Harrow J, Gerstein M, Hubbard TJ, Reymond A, Antonarakis SE, Hannon GJ,
Giddings MC, Ruan Y, Wold B, Carninci P, Guigó R, Gingeras TR, Rosenbloom KR,
Sloan CA, Learned K, Malladi VS, Wong MC, Barber GP, Cline MS, Dreszer TR,
Heitner SG, Karolchik D, Kent W, Kirkup VM, Meyer LR, Long JC, Maddren M, Raney
BJ, Furey TS, Song L, Grasfeder LL, Giresi PG, Lee BK, Battenhouse A, Sheffield
NC, Simon JM, Showers KA, Safi A, London D, Bhinge AA, Shestak C, Schaner MR, Kim
SK, Zhang ZZ, Mieczkowski PA, Mieczkowska JO, Liu Z, McDaniell RM, Ni Y, Rashid
NU, Kim MJ, Adar S, Zhang Z, Wang T, Winter D, Keefe D, Birney E, Iyer VR, Lieb
JD, Crawford GE, Li G, Sandhu KS, Zheng M, Wang P, Luo OJ, Shahab A, Fullwood MJ,
Ruan X, Ruan Y, Myers RM, Pauli F, Williams BA, Gertz J, Marinov GK, Reddy TE,
Vielmetter J, Partridge E, Trout D, Varley KE, Gasper C, Bansal A, Pepke S, Jain 
P, Amrhein H, Bowling KM, Anaya M, Cross MK, King B, Muratet MA, Antoshechkin I, 
Newberry KM, McCue K, Nesmith AS, Fisher-Aylor KI, Pusey B, DeSalvo G, Parker SL,
Balasubramanian S, Davis NS, Meadows SK, Eggleston T, Gunter C, Newberry J, Levy 
SE, Absher DM, Mortazavi A, Wong WH, Wold B, Blow MJ, Visel A, Pennachio LA,
Elnitski L, Margulies EH, Parker SC, Petrykowska HM, Abyzov A, Aken B, Barrell D,
Barson G, Berry A, Bignell A, Boychenko V, Bussotti G, Chrast J, Davidson C,
Derrien T, Despacio-Reyes G, Diekhans M, Ezkurdia I, Frankish A, Gilbert J,
Gonzalez JM, Griffiths E, Harte R, Hendrix DA, Howald C, Hunt T, Jungreis I, Kay 
M, Khurana E, Kokocinski F, Leng J, Lin MF, Loveland J, Lu Z, Manthravadi D,
Mariotti M, Mudge J, Mukherjee G, Notredame C, Pei B, Rodriguez JM, Saunders G,
Sboner A, Searle S, Sisu C, Snow C, Steward C, Tanzer A, Tapanari E, Tress ML,
van Baren MJ, Walters N, Washietl S, Wilming L, Zadissa A, Zhang Z, Brent M,
Haussler D, Kellis M, Valencia A, Gerstein M, Reymond A, Guigó R, Harrow J,
Hubbard TJ, Landt SG, Frietze S, Abyzov A, Addleman N, Alexander RP, Auerbach RK,
Balasubramanian S, Bettinger K, Bhardwaj N, Boyle AP, Cao AR, Cayting P, Charos
A, Cheng Y, Cheng C, Eastman C, Euskirchen G, Fleming JD, Grubert F, Habegger L, 
Hariharan M, Harmanci A, Iyengar S, Jin VX, Karczewski KJ, Kasowski M, Lacroute
P, Lam H, Lamarre-Vincent N, Leng J, Lian J, Lindahl-Allen M, Min R, Miotto B,
Monahan H, Moqtaderi Z, Mu XJ, O'Geen H, Ouyang Z, Patacsil D, Pei B, Raha D,
Ramirez L, Reed B, Rozowsky J, Sboner A, Shi M, Sisu C, Slifer T, Witt H, Wu L,
Xu X, Yan KK, Yang X, Yip KY, Zhang Z, Struhl K, Weissman SM, Gerstein M, Farnham
PJ, Snyder M, Tenenbaum SA, Penalva LO, Doyle F, Karmakar S, Landt SG, Bhanvadia 
RR, Choudhury A, Domanus M, Ma L, Moran J, Patacsil D, Slifer T, Victorsen A,
Yang X, Snyder M, Auer T, Centanin L, Eichenlaub M, Gruhl F, Heermann S,
Hoeckendorf B, Inoue D, Kellner T, Kirchmaier S, Mueller C, Reinhardt R, Schertel
L, Schneider S, Sinn R, Wittbrodt B, Wittbrodt J, Weng Z, Whitfield TW, Wang J,
Collins PJ, Aldred SF, Trinklein ND, Partridge EC, Myers RM, Dekker J, Jain G,
Lajoie BR, Sanyal A, Balasundaram G, Bates DL, Byron R, Canfield TK, Diegel MJ,
Dunn D, Ebersol AK, Frum T, Garg K, Gist E, Hansen R, Boatman L, Haugen E,
Humbert R, Jain G, Johnson AK, Johnson EM, Kutyavin TV, Lajoie BR, Lee K, Lotakis
D, Maurano MT, Neph SJ, Neri FV, Nguyen ED, Qu H, Reynolds AP, Roach V, Rynes E, 
Sabo P, Sanchez ME, Sandstrom RS, Sanyal A, Shafer AO, Stergachis AB, Thomas S,
Thurman RE, Vernot B, Vierstra J, Vong S, Wang H, Weaver MA, Yan Y, Zhang M, Akey
JM, Bender M, Dorschner MO, Groudine M, MacCoss MJ, Navas P, Stamatoyannopoulos
G, Kaul R, Dekker J, Stamatoyannopoulos JA, Dunham I, Beal K, Brazma A, Flicek P,
Herrero J, Johnson N, Keefe D, Lukk M, Luscombe NM, Sobral D, Vaquerizas JM,
Wilder SP, Batzoglou S, Sidow A, Hussami N, Kyriazopoulou-Panagiotopoulou S,
Libbrecht MW, Schaub MA, Kundaje A, Hardison RC, Miller W, Giardine B, Harris RS,
Wu W, Bickel PJ, Banfai B, Boley NP, Brown JB, Huang H, Li Q, Li JJ, Noble WS,
Bilmes JA, Buske OJ, Hoffman MM, Sahu AD, Kharchenko PV, Park PJ, Baker D, Taylor
J, Weng Z, Iyer S, Dong X, Greven M, Lin X, Wang J, Xi HS, Zhuang J, Gerstein M, 
Alexander RP, Balasubramanian S, Cheng C, Harmanci A, Lochovsky L, Min R, Mu XJ, 
Rozowsky J, Yan KK, Yip KY, Birney E.

Comment in
    Am J Transplant. 2013 Feb;13(2):245.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Oct;13(10):678.
    Nat Methods. 2012 Nov;9(11):1046.

The human genome encodes the blueprint of life, but the function of the vast
majority of its nearly three billion bases is unknown. The Encyclopedia of DNA
Elements (ENCODE) project has systematically mapped regions of transcription,
transcription factor association, chromatin structure and histone modification.
These data enabled us to assign biochemical functions for 80% of the genome, in
particular outside of the well-studied protein-coding regions. Many discovered
candidate regulatory elements are physically associated with one another and with
expressed genes, providing new insights into the mechanisms of gene regulation.
The newly identified elements also show a statistical correspondence to sequence 
variants linked to human disease, and can thereby guide interpretation of this
variation. Overall, the project provides new insights into the organization and
regulation of our genes and genome, and is an expansive resource of functional
annotations for biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11247 
PMCID: PMC3439153
PMID: 22955616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):137-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11392.

Activation of old carbon by erosion of coastal and subsea permafrost in Arctic
Siberia.

Vonk JE(1), Sánchez-García L, van Dongen BE, Alling V, Kosmach D, Charkin A,
Semiletov IP, Dudarev OV, Shakhova N, Roos P, Eglinton TI, Andersson A,
Gustafsson O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Environmental Science (ITM) and the Bert Bolin Centre
for Climate Research, Stockholm University, SE-11418, Stockholm, Sweden.

The future trajectory of greenhouse gas concentrations depends on interactions
between climate and the biogeosphere. Thawing of Arctic permafrost could release 
significant amounts of carbon into the atmosphere in this century. Ancient Ice
Complex deposits outcropping along the ~7,000-kilometre-long coastline of the
East Siberian Arctic Shelf (ESAS), and associated shallow subsea permafrost, are 
two large pools of permafrost carbon, yet their vulnerabilities towards thawing
and decomposition are largely unknown. Recent Arctic warming is stronger than has
been predicted by several degrees, and is particularly pronounced over the
coastal ESAS region. There is thus a pressing need to improve our understanding
of the links between permafrost carbon and climate in this relatively
inaccessible region. Here we show that extensive release of carbon from these Ice
Complex deposits dominates (57 ± 2 per cent) the sedimentary carbon budget of the
ESAS, the world’s largest continental shelf, overwhelming the marine and topsoil 
terrestrial components. Inverse modelling of the dual-carbon isotope composition 
of organic carbon accumulating in ESAS surface sediments, using Monte Carlo
simulations to account for uncertainties, suggests that 44 ± 10 teragrams of old 
carbon is activated annually from Ice Complex permafrost, an order of magnitude
more than has been suggested by previous studies. We estimate that about
two-thirds (66 ± 16 per cent) of this old carbon escapes to the atmosphere as
carbon dioxide, with the remainder being re-buried in shelf sediments. Thermal
collapse and erosion of these carbon-rich Pleistocene coastline and seafloor
deposits may accelerate with Arctic amplification of climate warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11392 
PMID: 22932271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):141-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11391.

Recent Antarctic Peninsula warming relative to Holocene climate and ice-shelf
history.

Mulvaney R(1), Abram NJ, Hindmarsh RC, Arrowsmith C, Fleet L, Triest J, Sime LC, 
Alemany O, Foord S.

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, Natural Environment Research Council, Cambridge CB3 
0ET, UK. rmu@bas.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):39-40.

Rapid warming over the past 50 years on the Antarctic Peninsula is associated
with the collapse of a number of ice shelves and accelerating glacier mass loss. 
In contrast, warming has been comparatively modest over West Antarctica and
significant changes have not been observed over most of East Antarctica,
suggesting that the ice-core palaeoclimate records available from these areas may
not be representative of the climate history of the Antarctic Peninsula. Here we 
show that the Antarctic Peninsula experienced an early-Holocene warm period
followed by stable temperatures, from about 9,200 to 2,500 years ago, that were
similar to modern-day levels. Our temperature estimates are based on an ice-core 
record of deuterium variations from James Ross Island, off the northeastern tip
of the Antarctic Peninsula. We find that the late-Holocene development of ice
shelves near James Ross Island was coincident with pronounced cooling from 2,500 
to 600 years ago. This cooling was part of a millennial-scale climate excursion
with opposing anomalies on the eastern and western sides of the Antarctic
Peninsula. Although warming of the northeastern Antarctic Peninsula began around 
600 years ago, the high rate of warming over the past century is unusual (but not
unprecedented) in the context of natural climate variability over the past two
millennia. The connection shown here between past temperature and ice-shelf
stability suggests that warming for several centuries rendered ice shelves on the
northeastern Antarctic Peninsula vulnerable to collapse. Continued warming to
temperatures that now exceed the stable conditions of most of the Holocene epoch 
is likely to cause ice-shelf instability to encroach farther southward along the 
Antarctic Peninsula.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11391 
PMID: 22914090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):160-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11311.

Endogenous antigen tunes the responsiveness of naive B cells but not T cells.

Zikherman J(1), Parameswaran R, Weiss A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Rosalind Russell Medical
Research Center for Arthritis, University of California, San Francisco,
California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Oct;12(10):680-1.

In humans, up to 75% of newly generated B cells and about 30% of mature B cells
show some degree of autoreactivity. Yet, how B cells establish and maintain
tolerance in the face of autoantigen exposure during and after development is not
certain. Studies of model B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) transgenic systems have
highlighted the critical role of functional unresponsiveness or ‘anergy’. Unlike 
T cells, evidence suggests that receptor editing and anergy, rather than
deletion, account for much of B-cell tolerance. However, it remains unclear
whether the mature diverse B-cell repertoire of mice contains anergic
autoreactive B cells, and if so, whether antigen was encountered during or after 
their development. By taking advantage of a reporter mouse in which BCR
signalling rapidly and robustly induces green fluorescent protein expression
under the control of the Nur77 regulatory region, antigen-dependent and
antigen-independent BCR signalling events in vivo during B-cell maturation were
visualized. Here we show that B cells encounter antigen during development in the
spleen, and that this antigen exposure, in turn, tunes the responsiveness of BCR 
signalling in B cells at least partly by downmodulating expression of surface IgM
but not IgD BCRs, and by modifying basal calcium levels. By contrast, no
analogous process occurs in naive mature T cells. Our data demonstrate not only
that autoreactive B cells persist in the mature repertoire, but that functional
unresponsiveness or anergy exists in the mature B-cell repertoire along a
continuum, a fact that has long been suspected, but never yet shown. These
results have important implications for understanding how tolerance in T and B
cells is differently imposed, and how these processes might go awry in disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11311 
PMCID: PMC3438375
PMID: 22902503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):145-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11345.

Dopamine neurons modulate pheromone responses in Drosophila courtship learning.

Keleman K(1), Vrontou E, Krüttner S, Yu JY, Kurtovic-Kozaric A, Dickson BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, Dr Bohrgasse 7, A-1030 Vienna,
Austria. keleman@imp.ac.at

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):38-9.

Learning through trial-and-error interactions allows animals to adapt innate
behavioural ‘rules of thumb’ to the local environment, improving their prospects 
for survival and reproduction. Naive Drosophila melanogaster males, for example, 
court both virgin and mated females, but learn through experience to selectively 
suppress futile courtship towards females that have already mated. Here we show
that courtship learning reflects an enhanced response to the male pheromone
cis-vaccenyl acetate (cVA), which is deposited on females during mating and thus 
distinguishes mated females from virgins. Dissociation experiments suggest a
simple learning rule in which unsuccessful courtship enhances sensitivity to cVA.
The learning experience can be mimicked by artificial activation of dopaminergic 
neurons, and we identify a specific class of dopaminergic neuron that is critical
for courtship learning. These neurons provide input to the mushroom body (MB) γ
lobe, and the DopR1 dopamine receptor is required in MBγ neurons for both natural
and artificial courtship learning. Our work thus reveals critical behavioural,
cellular and molecular components of the learning rule by which Drosophila
adjusts its innate mating strategy according to experience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11345 
PMID: 22902500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):115-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11376.

Structure of a RING E3 ligase and ubiquitin-loaded E2 primed for catalysis.

Plechanovová A(1), Jaffray EG, Tatham MH, Naismith JH, Hay RT.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Gene Regulation and Expression, College of Life
Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):43-4.

Ubiquitin modification is mediated by a large family of specificity determining
ubiquitin E3 ligases. To facilitate ubiquitin transfer, RING E3 ligases bind both
substrate and a ubiquitin E2 conjugating enzyme linked to ubiquitin via a
thioester bond, but the mechanism of transfer has remained elusive. Here we
report the crystal structure of the dimeric RING domain of rat RNF4 in complex
with E2 (UbcH5A) linked by an isopeptide bond to ubiquitin. While the E2 contacts
a single protomer of the RING, ubiquitin is folded back onto the E2 by contacts
from both RING protomers. The carboxy-terminal tail of ubiquitin is locked into
an active site groove on the E2 by an intricate network of interactions,
resulting in changes at the E2 active site. This arrangement is primed for
catalysis as it can deprotonate the incoming substrate lysine residue and
stabilize the consequent tetrahedral transition-state intermediate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11376 
PMCID: PMC3442243
PMID: 22842904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):150-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11306.

Neuronal circuitry mechanism regulating adult quiescent neural stem-cell fate
decision.

Song J(1), Zhong C, Bonaguidi MA, Sun GJ, Hsu D, Gu Y, Meletis K, Huang ZJ, Ge S,
Enikolopov G, Deisseroth K, Luscher B, Christian KM, Ming GL, Song H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Sep 7;11(3):282-4.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Sep;13(9):599.

Adult neurogenesis arises from neural stem cells within specialized niches.
Neuronal activity and experience, presumably acting on this local niche, regulate
multiple stages of adult neurogenesis, from neural progenitor proliferation to
new neuron maturation, synaptic integration and survival. It is unknown whether
local neuronal circuitry has a direct impact on adult neural stem cells. Here we 
show that, in the adult mouse hippocampus, nestin-expressing radial glia-like
quiescent neural stem cells (RGLs) respond tonically to the neurotransmitter
γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) by means of γ2-subunit-containing GABAA receptors.
Clonal analysis of individual RGLs revealed a rapid exit from quiescence and
enhanced symmetrical self-renewal after conditional deletion of γ2. RGLs are in
close proximity to terminals expressing 67-kDa glutamic acid decarboxylase
(GAD67) of parvalbumin-expressing (PV+) interneurons and respond tonically to
GABA released from these neurons. Functionally, optogenetic control of the
activity of dentate PV+ interneurons, but not that of somatostatin-expressing or 
vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-expressing interneurons, can dictate the 
RGL choice between quiescence and activation. Furthermore, PV+ interneuron
activation restores RGL quiescence after social isolation, an experience that
induces RGL activation and symmetrical division. Our study identifies a niche
cell–signal–receptor trio and a local circuitry mechanism that control the
activation and self-renewal mode of quiescent adult neural stem cells in response
to neuronal activity and experience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11306 
PMCID: PMC3438284
PMID: 22842902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2012 Sep 6;489(7414):155-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11303.

Heterodimeric JAK-STAT activation as a mechanism of persistence to JAK2 inhibitor
therapy.

Koppikar P(1), Bhagwat N, Kilpivaara O, Manshouri T, Adli M, Hricik T, Liu F,
Saunders LM, Mullally A, Abdel-Wahab O, Leung L, Weinstein A, Marubayashi S, Goel
A, Gönen M, Estrov Z, Ebert BL, Chiosis G, Nimer SD, Bernstein BE, Verstovsek S, 
Levine RL.

Author information: 
(1)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Sep;12(9):583.

The identification of somatic activating mutations in JAK2 (refs 1–4) and in the 
thrombopoietin receptor gene (MPL) in most patients with myeloproliferative
neoplasm (MPN) led to the clinical development of JAK2 kinase inhibitors. JAK2
inhibitor therapy improves MPN-associated splenomegaly and systemic symptoms but 
does not significantly decrease or eliminate the MPN clone in most patients with 
MPN. We therefore sought to characterize mechanisms by which MPN cells persist
despite chronic inhibition of JAK2. Here we show that JAK2 inhibitor persistence 
is associated with reactivation of JAK–STAT signalling and with
heterodimerization between activated JAK2 and JAK1 or TYK2, consistent with
activation of JAK2 in trans by other JAK kinases. Further, this phenomenon is
reversible: JAK2 inhibitor withdrawal is associated with resensitization to JAK2 
kinase inhibitors and with reversible changes in JAK2 expression. We saw
increased JAK2 heterodimerization and sustained JAK2 activation in cell lines, in
murine models and in patients treated with JAK2 inhibitors. RNA interference and 
pharmacological studies show that JAK2-inhibitor-persistent cells remain
dependent on JAK2 protein expression. Consequently, therapies that result in JAK2
degradation retain efficacy in persistent cells and may provide additional
benefit to patients with JAK2-dependent malignancies treated with JAK2
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11303 
PMCID: PMC3991463
PMID: 22820254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):642-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11399.

Mutations in DMRT3 affect locomotion in horses and spinal circuit function in
mice.

Andersson LS(1), Larhammar M, Memic F, Wootz H, Schwochow D, Rubin CJ, Patra K,
Arnason T, Wellbring L, Hjälm G, Imsland F, Petersen JL, McCue ME, Mickelson JR, 
Cothran G, Ahituv N, Roepstorff L, Mikko S, Vallstedt A, Lindgren G, Andersson L,
Kullander K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences, SE-75124 Uppsala, Sweden.

Locomotion in mammals relies on a central pattern-generating circuitry of spinal 
interneurons established during development that coordinates limb movement. These
networks produce left-right alternation of limbs as well as coordinated
activation of flexor and extensor muscles. Here we show that a premature stop
codon in the DMRT3 gene has a major effect on the pattern of locomotion in
horses. The mutation is permissive for the ability to perform alternate gaits and
has a favourable effect on harness racing performance. Examination of wild-type
and Dmrt3-null mice demonstrates that Dmrt3 is expressed in the dI6 subdivision
of spinal cord neurons, takes part in neuronal specification within this
subdivision, and is critical for the normal development of a coordinated
locomotor network controlling limb movements. Our discovery positions Dmrt3 in a 
pivotal role for configuring the spinal circuits controlling stride in
vertebrates. The DMRT3 mutation has had a major effect on the diversification of 
the domestic horse, as the altered gait characteristics of a number of breeds
apparently require this mutation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11399 
PMCID: PMC3523687
PMID: 22932389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):638-41. doi: 10.1038/nature11370.

'Melt welt' mechanism of extreme weakening of gabbro at seismic slip rates.

Brown KM(1), Fialko Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics, Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093,
USA. kmbrown@ucsd.edu

Laboratory studies of frictional properties of rocks at slip velocities
approaching the seismic range (∼0.1-1 m s(-1)), and at moderate normal stresses
(1-10 MPa), have revealed a complex evolution of the dynamic shear strength, with
at least two phases of weakening separated by strengthening at the onset of
wholesale melting. The second post-melting weakening phase is governed by viscous
properties of the melt layer and is reasonably well understood. The initial phase
of extreme weakening, however, remains a subject of much debate. Here we show
that the initial weakening of gabbro is associated with the formation of hotspots
and macroscopic streaks of melt ('melt welts'), which partially unload the rest
of the slip interface. Melt welts begin to form when the average rate of
frictional heating exceeds 0.1-0.4 MW m(-2), while the average temperature of the
shear zone is well below the solidus (250-450 °C). Similar heterogeneities in
stress and temperature are likely to occur on natural fault surfaces during rapid
slip, and to be important for earthquake rupture dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11370 
PMID: 22932388 


343. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):633-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11374.

Potential methane reservoirs beneath Antarctica.

Wadham JL(1), Arndt S, Tulaczyk S, Stibal M, Tranter M, Telling J, Lis GP, Lawson
E, Ridgwell A, Dubnick A, Sharp MJ, Anesio AM, Butler CE.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geographical Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1SS, UK.
j.l.wadham@bris.ac.uk

Once thought to be devoid of life, the ice-covered parts of Antarctica are now
known to be a reservoir of metabolically active microbial cells and organic
carbon. The potential for methanogenic archaea to support the degradation of
organic carbon to methane beneath the ice, however, has not yet been evaluated.
Large sedimentary basins containing marine sequences up to 14 kilometres thick
and an estimated 21,000 petagrams (1 Pg equals 10(15) g) of organic carbon are
buried beneath the Antarctic Ice Sheet. No data exist for rates of methanogenesis
in sub-Antarctic marine sediments. Here we present experimental data from other
subglacial environments that demonstrate the potential for overridden organic
matter beneath glacial systems to produce methane. We also numerically simulate
the accumulation of methane in Antarctic sedimentary basins using an established 
one-dimensional hydrate model and show that pressure/temperature conditions
favour methane hydrate formation down to sediment depths of about 300 metres in
West Antarctica and 700 metres in East Antarctica. Our results demonstrate the
potential for methane hydrate accumulation in Antarctic sedimentary basins, where
the total inventory depends on rates of organic carbon degradation and conditions
at the ice-sheet bed. We calculate that the sub-Antarctic hydrate inventory could
be of the same order of magnitude as that of recent estimates made for Arctic
permafrost. Our findings suggest that the Antarctic Ice Sheet may be a neglected 
but important component of the global methane budget, with the potential to act
as a positive feedback on climate warming during ice-sheet wastage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11374 
PMID: 22932387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):627-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11408.

Graphene and boron nitride lateral heterostructures for atomically thin
circuitry.

Levendorf MP(1), Kim CJ, Brown L, Huang PY, Havener RW, Muller DA, Park J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Precise spatial control over the electrical properties of thin films is the key
capability enabling the production of modern integrated circuitry. Although
recent advances in chemical vapour deposition methods have enabled the
large-scale production of both intrinsic and doped graphene, as well as hexagonal
boron nitride (h-BN), controlled fabrication of lateral heterostructures in these
truly atomically thin systems has not been achieved. Graphene/h-BN interfaces are
of particular interest, because it is known that areas of different atomic
compositions may coexist within continuous atomically thin films and that, with
proper control, the bandgap and magnetic properties can be precisely engineered. 
However, previously reported approaches for controlling these interfaces have
fundamental limitations and cannot be easily integrated with conventional
lithography. Here we report a versatile and scalable process, which we call
'patterned regrowth', that allows for the spatially controlled synthesis of
lateral junctions between electrically conductive graphene and insulating h-BN,
as well as between intrinsic and substitutionally doped graphene. We demonstrate 
that the resulting films form mechanically continuous sheets across these
heterojunctions. Conductance measurements confirm laterally insulating behaviour 
for h-BN regions, while the electrical behaviour of both doped and undoped
graphene sheets maintain excellent properties, with low sheet resistances and
high carrier mobilities. Our results represent an important step towards
developing atomically thin integrated circuitry and enable the fabrication of
electrically isolated active and passive elements embedded in continuous,
one-atom-thick sheets, which could be manipulated and stacked to form complex
devices at the ultimate thickness limit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11408 
PMID: 22932386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):609-14. doi: 10.1038/nature11360.

A Cenozoic record of the equatorial Pacific carbonate compensation depth.

Pälike H(1), Lyle MW, Nishi H, Raffi I, Ridgwell A, Gamage K, Klaus A, Acton G,
Anderson L, Backman J, Baldauf J, Beltran C, Bohaty SM, Bown P, Busch W, Channell
JE, Chun CO, Delaney M, Dewangan P, Dunkley Jones T, Edgar KM, Evans H, Fitch P, 
Foster GL, Gussone N, Hasegawa H, Hathorne EC, Hayashi H, Herrle JO, Holbourn A, 
Hovan S, Hyeong K, Iijima K, Ito T, Kamikuri S, Kimoto K, Kuroda J,
Leon-Rodriguez L, Malinverno A, Moore TC Jr, Murphy BH, Murphy DP, Nakamura H,
Ogane K, Ohneiser C, Richter C, Robinson R, Rohling EJ, Romero O, Sawada K, Scher
H, Schneider L, Sluijs A, Takata H, Tian J, Tsujimoto A, Wade BS, Westerhold T,
Wilkens R, Williams T, Wilson PA, Yamamoto Y, Yamamoto S, Yamazaki T, Zeebe RE.

Author information: 
(1)Ocean and Earth Science, National Oceanography Centre Southampton, University 
of Southampton, Waterfront Campus, European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.
hpaelike@marum.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):596-7.

Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and climate are regulated on geological
timescales by the balance between carbon input from volcanic and metamorphic
outgassing and its removal by weathering feedbacks; these feedbacks involve the
erosion of silicate rocks and organic-carbon-bearing rocks. The integrated effect
of these processes is reflected in the calcium carbonate compensation depth,
which is the oceanic depth at which calcium carbonate is dissolved. Here we
present a carbonate accumulation record that covers the past 53 million years
from a depth transect in the equatorial Pacific Ocean. The carbonate compensation
depth tracks long-term ocean cooling, deepening from 3.0-3.5 kilometres during
the early Cenozoic (approximately 55 million years ago) to 4.6 kilometres at
present, consistent with an overall Cenozoic increase in weathering. We find
large superimposed fluctuations in carbonate compensation depth during the middle
and late Eocene. Using Earth system models, we identify changes in weathering and
the mode of organic-carbon delivery as two key processes to explain these
large-scale Eocene fluctuations of the carbonate compensation depth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11360 
PMID: 22932385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):603-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11340.

X-ray and optical wave mixing.

Glover TE(1), Fritz DM, Cammarata M, Allison TK, Coh S, Feldkamp JM, Lemke H, Zhu
D, Feng Y, Coffee RN, Fuchs M, Ghimire S, Chen J, Shwartz S, Reis DA, Harris SE, 
Hastings JB.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Light Source Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA. teglover@lbl.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):598-9.

Light-matter interactions are ubiquitous, and underpin a wide range of basic
research fields and applied technologies. Although optical interactions have been
intensively studied, their microscopic details are often poorly understood and
have so far not been directly measurable. X-ray and optical wave mixing was
proposed nearly half a century ago as an atomic-scale probe of optical
interactions but has not yet been observed owing to a lack of sufficiently
intense X-ray sources. Here we use an X-ray laser to demonstrate X-ray and
optical sum-frequency generation. The underlying nonlinearity is a
reciprocal-space probe of the optically induced charges and associated
microscopic fields that arise in an illuminated material. To within the
experimental errors, the measured efficiency is consistent with first-principles 
calculations of microscopic optical polarization in diamond. The ability to probe
optical interactions on the atomic scale offers new opportunities in both basic
and applied areas of science.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11340 
PMID: 22932384 


347. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):621-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11400.

Antibiotics in early life alter the murine colonic microbiome and adiposity.

Cho I(1), Yamanishi S, Cox L, Methé BA, Zavadil J, Li K, Gao Z, Mahana D, Raju K,
Teitler I, Li H, Alekseyenko AV, Blaser MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New 
York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):601-2.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2012 Nov;8(11):623.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Nov;9(11):615.
    Cell Metab. 2012 Oct 3;16(4):408-10.

Antibiotics administered in low doses have been widely used as growth promoters
in the agricultural industry since the 1950s, yet the mechanisms for this effect 
are unclear. Because antimicrobial agents of different classes and varying
activity are effective across several vertebrate species, we proposed that such
subtherapeutic administration alters the population structure of the gut
microbiome as well as its metabolic capabilities. We generated a model of
adiposity by giving subtherapeutic antibiotic therapy to young mice and evaluated
changes in the composition and capabilities of the gut microbiome. Administration
of subtherapeutic antibiotic therapy increased adiposity in young mice and
increased hormone levels related to metabolism. We observed substantial taxonomic
changes in the microbiome, changes in copies of key genes involved in the
metabolism of carbohydrates to short-chain fatty acids, increases in colonic
short-chain fatty acid levels, and alterations in the regulation of hepatic
metabolism of lipids and cholesterol. In this model, we demonstrate the
alteration of early-life murine metabolic homeostasis through antibiotic
manipulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11400 
PMCID: PMC3553221
PMID: 22914093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):675-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11337.

T cells become licensed in the lung to enter the central nervous system.

Odoardi F(1), Sie C, Streyl K, Ulaganathan VK, Schläger C, Lodygin D,
Heckelsmiller K, Nietfeld W, Ellwart J, Klinkert WE, Lottaz C, Nosov M, Brinkmann
V, Spang R, Lehrach H, Vingron M, Wekerle H, Flügel-Koch C, Flügel A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiple Sclerosis Research, Department of Neuroimmunology,
Gemeinnützige Hertie-Stiftung and University Medical Centre Göttingen, 37073
Göttingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):595-6.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Oct;12(10):682-3.

The blood–brain barrier (BBB) and the environment of the central nervous system
(CNS) guard the nervous tissue from peripheral immune cells. In the autoimmune
disease multiple sclerosis, myelin-reactive T-cell blasts are thought to
transgress the BBB and create a pro-inflammatory environment in the CNS, thereby 
making possible a second autoimmune attack that starts from the leptomeningeal
vessels and progresses into the parenchyma. Using a Lewis rat model of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, we show here that contrary to the
expectations of this concept, T-cell blasts do not efficiently enter the CNS and 
are not required to prepare the BBB for immune-cell recruitment. Instead,
intravenously transferred T-cell blasts gain the capacity to enter the CNS after 
residing transiently within the lung tissues. Inside the lung tissues, they move 
along and within the airways to bronchus-associated lymphoid tissues and
lung-draining mediastinal lymph nodes before they enter the blood circulation
from where they reach the CNS. Effector T cells transferred directly into the
airways showed a similar migratory pattern and retained their full pathogenicity.
On their way the T cells fundamentally reprogrammed their gene-expression
profile, characterized by downregulation of their activation program and
upregulation of cellular locomotion molecules together with chemokine and
adhesion receptors. The adhesion receptors include ninjurin 1, which participates
in T-cell intravascular crawling on cerebral blood vessels. We detected that the 
lung constitutes a niche not only for activated T cells but also for resting
myelin-reactive memory T cells. After local stimulation in the lung, these cells 
strongly proliferate and, after assuming migratory properties, enter the CNS and 
induce paralytic disease. The lung could therefore contribute to the activation
of potentially autoaggressive T cells and their transition to a migratory mode as
a prerequisite to entering their target tissues and inducing autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11337 
PMID: 22914092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):652-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11333.

Early-stage epigenetic modification during somatic cell reprogramming by Parp1
and Tet2.

Doege CA(1), Inoue K, Yamashita T, Rhee DB, Travis S, Fujita R, Guarnieri P,
Bhagat G, Vanti WB, Shih A, Levine RL, Nik S, Chen EI, Abeliovich A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Taub Institute for Aging, Columbia University, New
York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):599-600.

Somatic cells can be reprogrammed into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) by 
using the pluripotency factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc (together referred to
as OSKM). iPSC reprogramming erases somatic epigenetic signatures—as typified by 
DNA methylation or histone modification at silent pluripotency loci—and
establishes alternative epigenetic marks of embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Here we 
describe an early and essential stage of somatic cell reprogramming, preceding
the induction of transcription at endogenous pluripotency loci such as Nanog and 
Esrrb. By day 4 after transduction with OSKM, two epigenetic modification factors
necessary for iPSC generation, namely poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (Parp1) and
ten-eleven translocation-2 (Tet2), are recruited to the Nanog and Esrrb loci.
These epigenetic modification factors seem to have complementary roles in the
establishment of early epigenetic marks during somatic cell reprogramming: Parp1 
functions in the regulation of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) modification, whereas Tet2 
is essential for the early generation of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) by the
oxidation of 5mC (refs 3,4). Although 5hmC has been proposed to serve primarily
as an intermediate in 5mC demethylation to cytosine in certain contexts, our
data, and also studies of Tet2-mutant human tumour cells, argue in favour of a
role for 5hmC as an epigenetic mark distinct from 5mC. Consistent with this,
Parp1 and Tet2 are each needed for the early establishment of histone
modifications that typify an activated chromatin state at pluripotency loci,
whereas Parp1 induction further promotes accessibility to the Oct4 reprogramming 
factor. These findings suggest that Parp1 and Tet2 contribute to an epigenetic
program that directs subsequent transcriptional induction at pluripotency loci
during somatic cell reprogramming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11333 
PMCID: PMC5176099
PMID: 22902501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interests.


350. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):660-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11282.

Recurrent R-spondin fusions in colon cancer.

Seshagiri S(1), Stawiski EW, Durinck S, Modrusan Z, Storm EE, Conboy CB,
Chaudhuri S, Guan Y, Janakiraman V, Jaiswal BS, Guillory J, Ha C, Dijkgraaf GJ,
Stinson J, Gnad F, Huntley MA, Degenhardt JD, Haverty PM, Bourgon R, Wang W,
Koeppen H, Gentleman R, Starr TK, Zhang Z, Largaespada DA, Wu TD, de Sauvage FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA. sekar@gene.com

Identifying and understanding changes in cancer genomes is essential for the
development of targeted therapeutics. Here we analyse systematically more than 70
pairs of primary human colon tumours by applying next-generation sequencing to
characterize their exomes, transcriptomes and copy-number alterations. We have
identified 36,303 protein-altering somatic changes that include several new
recurrent mutations in the Wnt pathway gene TCF7L2, chromatin-remodelling genes
such as TET2 and TET3 and receptor tyrosine kinases including ERBB3. Our analysis
for significantly mutated cancer genes identified 23 candidates, including the
cell cycle checkpoint kinase ATM. Copy-number and RNA-seq data analysis
identified amplifications and corresponding overexpression of IGF2 in a subset of
colon tumours. Furthermore, using RNA-seq data we identified multiple fusion
transcripts including recurrent gene fusions involving R-spondin family members
RSPO2 and RSPO3 that together occur in 10% of colon tumours. The RSPO fusions
were mutually exclusive with APC mutations, indicating that they probably have a 
role in the activation of Wnt signalling and tumorigenesis. Consistent with this 
we show that the RSPO fusion proteins were capable of potentiating Wnt
signalling. The R-spondin gene fusions and several other gene mutations
identified in this study provide new potential opportunities for therapeutic
intervention in colon cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11282 
PMCID: PMC3690621
PMID: 22895193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):665-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11308.

Tumour suppressor RNF43 is a stem-cell E3 ligase that induces endocytosis of Wnt 
receptors.

Koo BK(1), Spit M, Jordens I, Low TY, Stange DE, van de Wetering M, van Es JH,
Mohammed S, Heck AJ, Maurice MM, Clevers H.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute, KNAW and University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584 CT Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2012 Oct 9;22(19):R849-51.

LGR5+ stem cells reside at crypt bottoms, intermingled with Paneth cells that
provide Wnt, Notch and epidermal growth factor signals. Here we find that the
related RNF43 and ZNRF3 transmembrane E3 ubiquitin ligases are uniquely expressed
in LGR5+ stem cells. Simultaneous deletion of the two genes encoding these
proteins in the intestinal epithelium of mice induces rapidly growing adenomas
containing high numbers of Paneth and LGR5+ stem cells. In vitro, growth of
organoids derived from these adenomas is arrested when Wnt secretion is
inhibited, indicating a dependence of the adenoma stem cells on Wnt produced by
adenoma Paneth cells. In the HEK293T human cancer cell line, expression of RNF43 
blocks Wnt responses and targets surface-expressed frizzled receptors to
lysosomes. In the RNF43-mutant colorectal cancer cell line HCT116, reconstitution
of RNF43 expression removes its response to exogenous Wnt. We conclude that RNF43
and ZNRF3 reduce Wnt signals by selectively ubiquitinating frizzled receptors,
thereby targeting these Wnt receptors for degradation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11308 
PMID: 22895187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):615-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11397.

An index to assess the health and benefits of the global ocean.

Halpern BS(1), Longo C, Hardy D, McLeod KL, Samhouri JF, Katona SK, Kleisner K,
Lester SE, O'Leary J, Ranelletti M, Rosenberg AA, Scarborough C, Selig ER, Best
BD, Brumbaugh DR, Chapin FS, Crowder LB, Daly KL, Doney SC, Elfes C, Fogarty MJ, 
Gaines SD, Jacobsen KI, Karrer LB, Leslie HM, Neeley E, Pauly D, Polasky S, Ris
B, St Martin K, Stone GS, Sumaila UR, Zeller D.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis, 735 State St Suite 300,
Santa Barbara, California 93101, USA. halpern@nceas.ucsb.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):594-5.
    Nature. 2013 Mar 28;495(7442):E5-6; discussion E7.

The ocean plays a critical role in supporting human well-being, from providing
food, livelihoods and recreational opportunities to regulating the global
climate. Sustainable management aimed at maintaining the flow of a broad range of
benefits from the ocean requires a comprehensive and quantitative method to
measure and monitor the health of coupled human–ocean systems. We created an
index comprising ten diverse public goals for a healthy coupled human–ocean
system and calculated the index for every coastal country. Globally, the overall 
index score was 60 out of 100 (range 36–86), with developed countries generally
performing better than developing countries, but with notable exceptions. Only 5%
of countries scored higher than 70, whereas 32% scored lower than 50. The index
provides a powerful tool to raise public awareness, direct resource management,
improve policy and prioritize scientific research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11397 
PMID: 22895186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):680-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11313.

The prokaryote messenger c-di-GMP triggers stalk cell differentiation in
Dictyostelium.

Chen ZH(1), Schaap P.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD15EH, UK.

Cyclic di-(3′:5′)-guanosine monophosphate (c-di-GMP) is a major prokaryote
signalling intermediate that is synthesized by diguanylate cyclases and triggers 
sessility and biofilm formation. We detected the first eukaryote diguanylate
cyclases in all major groups of Dictyostelia. On food depletion, Dictyostelium
discoideum amoebas collect into aggregates, which first transform into migrating 
slugs and then into sessile fruiting structures. These structures consist of a
spherical spore mass that is supported by a column of stalk cells and a basal
disk. A polyketide, DIF-1, which induces stalk-like cells in vitro, was isolated 
earlier. However, its role in vivo proved recently to be restricted to basal disk
formation. Here we show that the Dictyostelium diguanylate cyclase, DgcA,
produces c-di-GMP as the morphogen responsible for stalk cell differentiation.
Dictyostelium discoideum DgcA synthesized c-di-GMP in a GTP-dependent manner and 
was expressed at the slug tip, which is the site of stalk cell differentiation.
Disruption of the DgcA gene blocked the transition from slug migration to
fructification and the expression of stalk genes. Fructification and stalk
formation were restored by exposing DgcA-null slugs to wild-type secretion
products or to c-di-GMP. Moreover, c-di-GMP, but not cyclic di-(3′:5′)-adenosine 
monophosphate, induced stalk gene expression in dilute cell monolayers. Apart
from identifying the long-elusive stalk-inducing morphogen, our work also
identifies a role for c-di-GMP in eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11313 
PMCID: PMC3939355
PMID: 22864416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):670-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11290.

Novel role of PKR in inflammasome activation and HMGB1 release.

Lu B(1), Nakamura T, Inouye K, Li J, Tang Y, Lundbäck P, Valdes-Ferrer SI,
Olofsson PS, Kalb T, Roth J, Zou Y, Erlandsson-Harris H, Yang H, Ting JP, Wang H,
Andersson U, Antoine DJ, Chavan SS, Hotamisligil GS, Tracey KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Science, The Feinstein Institute for Medical
Research, 350 Community Drive, Manhasset, New York 11030, USA. blu@nshs.edu

The inflammasome regulates the release of caspase activation-dependent cytokines,
including interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-18 and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1). By
studying HMGB1 release mechanisms, here we identify a role for double-stranded
RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR, also known as EIF2AK2) in inflammasome
activation. Exposure of macrophages to inflammasome agonists induced PKR
autophosphorylation. PKR inactivation by genetic deletion or pharmacological
inhibition severely impaired inflammasome activation in response to
double-stranded RNA, ATP, monosodium urate, adjuvant aluminium, rotenone, live
Escherichia coli, anthrax lethal toxin, DNA transfection and Salmonella
typhimurium infection. PKR deficiency significantly inhibited the secretion of
IL-1β, IL-18 and HMGB1 in E. coli-induced peritonitis. PKR physically interacts
with several inflammasome components, including NOD-like receptor (NLR) family
pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3), NLRP1, NLR family CARD domain-containing
protein 4 (NLRC4), absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2), and broadly regulates
inflammasome activation. PKR autophosphorylation in a cell-free system with
recombinant NLRP3, apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD
(ASC, also known as PYCARD) and pro-caspase-1 reconstitutes inflammasome
activity. These results show a crucial role for PKR in inflammasome activation,
and indicate that it should be possible to pharmacologically target this molecule
to treat inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11290 
PMCID: PMC4163918
PMID: 22801494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):647-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11310.

Autistic-like behaviour and cerebellar dysfunction in Purkinje cell Tsc1 mutant
mice.

Tsai PT(1), Hull C, Chu Y, Greene-Colozzi E, Sadowski AR, Leech JM, Steinberg J, 
Crawley JN, Regehr WG, Sahin M.

Author information: 
(1)The F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Department of Neurology, Boston Children’s
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
peter.tsai@childrens.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Aug;13(8):518.
    Cerebellum. 2013 Dec;12(6):950-5.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are highly prevalent neurodevelopmental
disorders, but the underlying pathogenesis remains poorly understood. Recent
studies have implicated the cerebellum in these disorders, with post-mortem
studies in ASD patients showing cerebellar Purkinje cell (PC) loss, and isolated 
cerebellar injury has been associated with a higher incidence of ASDs. However,
the extent of cerebellar contribution to the pathogenesis of ASDs remains
unclear. Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a genetic disorder with high rates
of comorbid ASDs that result from mutation of either TSC1 or TSC2, whose protein 
products dimerize and negatively regulate mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)
signalling. TSC is an intriguing model to investigate the cerebellar contribution
to the underlying pathogenesis of ASDs, as recent studies in TSC patients
demonstrate cerebellar pathology and correlate cerebellar pathology with
increased ASD symptomatology. Functional imaging also shows that TSC patients
with ASDs display hypermetabolism in deep cerebellar structures, compared to TSC 
patients without ASDs. However, the roles of Tsc1 and the sequelae of Tsc1
dysfunction in the cerebellum have not been investigated so far. Here we show
that both heterozygous and homozygous loss of Tsc1 in mouse cerebellar PCs
results in autistic-like behaviours, including abnormal social interaction,
repetitive behaviour and vocalizations, in addition to decreased PC excitability.
Treatment of mutant mice with the mTOR inhibitor, rapamycin, prevented the
pathological and behavioural deficits. These findings demonstrate new roles for
Tsc1 in PC function and define a molecular basis for a cerebellar contribution to
cognitive disorders such as autism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11310 
PMCID: PMC3615424
PMID: 22763451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):656-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11323.

IDH1(R132H) mutation increases murine haematopoietic progenitors and alters
epigenetics.

Sasaki M(1), Knobbe CB, Munger JC, Lind EF, Brenner D, Brüstle A, Harris IS,
Holmes R, Wakeham A, Haight J, You-Ten A, Li WY, Schalm S, Su SM, Virtanen C,
Reifenberger G, Ohashi PS, Barber DL, Figueroa ME, Melnick A, Zúñiga-Pflücker JC,
Mak TW.

Author information: 
(1)The Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Ontario Cancer
Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2C1, Canada.

Mutations in the IDH1 and IDH2 genes encoding isocitrate dehydrogenases are
frequently found in human glioblastomas and cytogenetically normal acute myeloid 
leukaemias (AML). These alterations are gain-of-function mutations in that they
drive the synthesis of the ‘oncometabolite’ R-2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG). It
remains unclear how IDH1 and IDH2 mutations modify myeloid cell development and
promote leukaemogenesis. Here we report the characterization of conditional
knock-in (KI) mice in which the most common IDH1 mutation, IDH1(R132H), is
inserted into the endogenous murine Idh1 locus and is expressed in all
haematopoietic cells (Vav-KI mice) or specifically in cells of the myeloid
lineage (LysM-KI mice). These mutants show increased numbers of early
haematopoietic progenitors and develop splenomegaly and anaemia with
extramedullary haematopoiesis, suggesting a dysfunctional bone marrow niche.
Furthermore, LysM-KI cells have hypermethylated histones and changes to DNA
methylation similar to those observed in human IDH1- or IDH2-mutant AML. To our
knowledge, our study is the first to describe the generation and characterization
of conditional IDH1(R132H)-KI mice, and also the first report to demonstrate the 
induction of a leukaemic DNA methylation signature in a mouse model. Our report
thus sheds light on the mechanistic links between IDH1 mutation and human AML.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11323 
PMCID: PMC4005896
PMID: 22763442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):535-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11346.

The protein kinase Pstol1 from traditional rice confers tolerance of phosphorus
deficiency.

Gamuyao R(1), Chin JH, Pariasca-Tanaka J, Pesaresi P, Catausan S, Dalid C,
Slamet-Loedin I, Tecson-Mendoza EM, Wissuwa M, Heuer S.

Author information: 
(1)International Rice Research Institute, DAPO Box 7777 Metro, Manila 1301,
Philippines.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):466-7.

As an essential macroelement for all living cells, phosphorus is indispensable in
agricultural production systems. Natural phosphorus reserves are limited, and it 
is therefore important to develop phosphorus-efficient crops. A major
quantitative trait locus for phosphorus-deficiency tolerance, Pup1, was
identified in the traditional aus-type rice variety Kasalath about a decade ago. 
However, its functional mechanism remained elusive until the locus was sequenced,
showing the presence of a Pup1-specific protein kinase gene, which we have named 
phosphorus-starvation tolerance 1 (PSTOL1). This gene is absent from the rice
reference genome and other phosphorus-starvation-intolerant modern varieties.
Here we show that overexpression of PSTOL1 in such varieties significantly
enhances grain yield in phosphorus-deficient soil. Further analyses show that
PSTOL1 acts as an enhancer of early root growth, thereby enabling plants to
acquire more phosphorus and other nutrients. The absence of PSTOL1 and other
genes-for example, the submergence-tolerance gene SUB1A-from modern rice
varieties underlines the importance of conserving and exploring traditional
germplasm. Introgression of this quantitative trait locus into locally adapted
rice varieties in Asia and Africa is expected to considerably enhance
productivity under low phosphorus conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11346 
PMID: 22914168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):495-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11324.

Contrasting patterns of early twenty-first-century glacier mass change in the
Himalayas.

Kääb A(1), Berthier E, Nuth C, Gardelle J, Arnaud Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, University of Oslo, PO Box 1047, Blindern, 0316
Oslo, Norway. kaeaeb@geo.uio.no

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):468-9.

Glaciers are among the best indicators of terrestrial climate variability,
contribute importantly to water resources in many mountainous regions and are a
major contributor to global sea level rise. In the Hindu Kush-Karakoram-Himalaya 
region (HKKH), a paucity of appropriate glacier data has prevented a
comprehensive assessment of current regional mass balance. There is, however,
indirect evidence of a complex pattern of glacial responses in reaction to
heterogeneous climate change signals. Here we use satellite laser altimetry and a
global elevation model to show widespread glacier wastage in the eastern, central
and south-western parts of the HKKH during 2003-08. Maximal regional thinning
rates were 0.66 ± 0.09 metres per year in the Jammu-Kashmir region. Conversely,
in the Karakoram, glaciers thinned only slightly by a few centimetres per year.
Contrary to expectations, regionally averaged thinning rates under debris-mantled
ice were similar to those of clean ice despite insulation by debris covers. The
2003-08 specific mass balance for our entire HKKH study region was
-0.21 ± 0.05 m yr(-1) water equivalent, significantly less negative than the
estimated global average for glaciers and ice caps. This difference is mainly an 
effect of the balanced glacier mass budget in the Karakoram. The HKKH sea level
contribution amounts to one per cent of the present-day sea level rise. Our
2003-08 mass budget of -12.8 ± 3.5 gigatonnes (Gt) per year is more negative than
recent satellite-gravimetry-based estimates of -5 ± 3 Gt yr(-1) over 2003-10
(ref. 12). For the mountain catchments of the Indus and Ganges basins, the
glacier imbalance contributed about 3.5% and about 2.0%, respectively, to the
annual average river discharge, and up to 10% for the Upper Indus basin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11324 
PMID: 22914167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):490-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11342.

Long-term decline of global atmospheric ethane concentrations and implications
for methane.

Simpson IJ(1), Sulbaek Andersen MP, Meinardi S, Bruhwiler L, Blake NJ, Helmig D, 
Rowland FS, Blake DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California-Irvine, Irvine, California
92697, USA. isimpson@uci.edu

After methane, ethane is the most abundant hydrocarbon in the remote atmosphere. 
It is a precursor to tropospheric ozone and it influences the atmosphere's
oxidative capacity through its reaction with the hydroxyl radical, ethane's
primary atmospheric sink. Here we present the longest continuous record of global
atmospheric ethane levels. We show that global ethane emission rates decreased
from 14.3 to 11.3 teragrams per year, or by 21 per cent, from 1984 to 2010. We
attribute this to decreasing fugitive emissions from ethane's fossil fuel
source--most probably decreased venting and flaring of natural gas in oil
fields--rather than a decline in its other major sources, biofuel use and biomass
burning. Ethane's major emission sources are shared with methane, and recent
studies have disagreed on whether reduced fossil fuel or microbial emissions have
caused methane's atmospheric growth rate to slow. Our findings suggest that
reduced fugitive fossil fuel emissions account for at least 10-21 teragrams per
year (30-70 per cent) of the decrease in methane's global emissions,
significantly contributing to methane's slowing atmospheric growth rate since the
mid-1980s.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11342 
PMID: 22914166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):485-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11395.

Room-temperature ferroelectricity in supramolecular networks of charge-transfer
complexes.

Tayi AS(1), Shveyd AK, Sue AC, Szarko JM, Rolczynski BS, Cao D, Kennedy TJ,
Sarjeant AA, Stern CL, Paxton WF, Wu W, Dey SK, Fahrenbach AC, Guest JR, Mohseni 
H, Chen LX, Wang KL, Stoddart JF, Stupp SI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

Materials exhibiting a spontaneous electrical polarization that can be switched
easily between antiparallel orientations are of potential value for sensors,
photonics and energy-efficient memories. In this context, organic ferroelectrics 
are of particular interest because they promise to be lightweight, inexpensive
and easily processed into devices. A recently identified family of organic
ferroelectric structures is based on intermolecular charge transfer, where donor 
and acceptor molecules co-crystallize in an alternating fashion known as a mixed 
stack: in the crystalline lattice, a collective transfer of electrons from donor 
to acceptor molecules results in the formation of dipoles that can be realigned
by an external field as molecules switch partners in the mixed stack. Although
mixed stacks have been investigated extensively, only three systems are known to 
show ferroelectric switching, all below 71 kelvin. Here we describe
supramolecular charge-transfer networks that undergo ferroelectric polarization
switching with a ferroelectric Curie temperature above room temperature. These
polar and switchable systems utilize a structural synergy between a
hydrogen-bonded network and charge-transfer complexation of donor and acceptor
molecules in a mixed stack. This supramolecular motif could help guide the
development of other functional organic systems that can switch polarization
under the influence of electric fields at ambient temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11395 
PMID: 22914165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):481-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11302.

Exciton condensation and perfect Coulomb drag.

Nandi D(1), Finck AD, Eisenstein JP, Pfeiffer LN, West KW.

Author information: 
(1)Condensed Matter Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):464-5.

Coulomb drag is a process whereby the repulsive interactions between electrons in
spatially separated conductors enable a current flowing in one of the conductors 
to induce a voltage drop in the other. If the second conductor is part of a
closed circuit, a net current will flow in that circuit. The drag current is
typically much smaller than the drive current owing to the heavy screening of the
Coulomb interaction. There are, however, rare situations in which strong
electronic correlations exist between the two conductors. For example, double
quantum well systems can support exciton condensates, which consist of electrons 
in one well tightly bound to holes in the other. 'Perfect' drag is therefore
expected; a steady transport current of electrons driven through one quantum well
should be accompanied by an equal current of holes in the other. Here we
demonstrate this effect, taking care to ensure that the electron-hole pairs
dominate the transport and that tunnelling of charge between the quantum wells,
which can readily compromise drag measurements, is negligible. We note that, from
an electrical engineering perspective, perfect Coulomb drag is analogous to an
electrical transformer that functions at zero frequency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11302 
PMID: 22914164 


362. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):471-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11396.

Rate of de novo mutations and the importance of father's age to disease risk.

Kong A(1), Frigge ML, Masson G, Besenbacher S, Sulem P, Magnusson G, Gudjonsson
SA, Sigurdsson A, Jonasdottir A, Jonasdottir A, Wong WS, Sigurdsson G, Walters
GB, Steinberg S, Helgason H, Thorleifsson G, Gudbjartsson DF, Helgason A,
Magnusson OT, Thorsteinsdottir U, Stefansson K.

Author information: 
(1)deCODE Genetics, Sturlugata 8, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland. kong@decode.is

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Feb;189(2):655.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):439.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):467-8.

Mutations generate sequence diversity and provide a substrate for selection. The 
rate of de novo mutations is therefore of major importance to evolution. Here we 
conduct a study of genome-wide mutation rates by sequencing the entire genomes of
78 Icelandic parent-offspring trios at high coverage. We show that in our
samples, with an average father's age of 29.7, the average de novo mutation rate 
is 1.20 × 10(-8) per nucleotide per generation. Most notably, the diversity in
mutation rate of single nucleotide polymorphisms is dominated by the age of the
father at conception of the child. The effect is an increase of about two
mutations per year. An exponential model estimates paternal mutations doubling
every 16.5 years. After accounting for random Poisson variation, father's age is 
estimated to explain nearly all of the remaining variation in the de novo
mutation counts. These observations shed light on the importance of the father's 
age on the risk of diseases such as schizophrenia and autism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11396 
PMCID: PMC3548427
PMID: 22914163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):476-80. doi: 10.1038/nature11325.

Non-classical light generated by quantum-noise-driven cavity optomechanics.

Brooks DW(1), Botter T, Schreppler S, Purdy TP, Brahms N, Stamper-Kurn DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA. dwb@berkeley.edu

Optomechanical systems, in which light drives and is affected by the motion of a 
massive object, will comprise a new framework for nonlinear quantum optics, with 
applications ranging from the storage and transduction of quantum information to 
enhanced detection sensitivity in gravitational wave detectors. However, quantum 
optical effects in optomechanical systems have remained obscure, because their
detection requires the object’s motion to be dominated by vacuum fluctuations in 
the optical radiation pressure; so far, direct observations have been stymied by 
technical and thermal noise. Here we report an implementation of cavity
optomechanics using ultracold atoms in which the collective atomic motion is
dominantly driven by quantum fluctuations in radiation pressure. The back-action 
of this motion onto the cavity light field produces ponderomotive squeezing. We
detect this quantum phenomenon by measuring sub-shot-noise optical squeezing.
Furthermore, the system acts as a low-power, high-gain, nonlinear parametric
amplifier for optical fluctuations, demonstrating a gain of 20 dB with a pump
corresponding to an average of only seven intracavity photons. These findings may
pave the way for low-power quantum optical devices, surpassing quantum limits on 
position and force sensing, and the control and measurement of motion in quantum 
gases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11325 
PMID: 22895194 


364. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):531-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11285.

NRT/PTR transporters are essential for translocation of glucosinolate defence
compounds to seeds.

Nour-Eldin HH(1), Andersen TG, Burow M, Madsen SR, Jørgensen ME, Olsen CE, Dreyer
I, Hedrich R, Geiger D, Halkier BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science, University
of Copenhagen, 1871Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

In plants, transport processes are important for the reallocation of defence
compounds to protect tissues of high value, as demonstrated in the plant model
Arabidopsis, in which the major defence compounds, glucosinolates, are
translocated to seeds on maturation. The molecular basis for long-distance
transport of glucosinolates and other defence compounds, however, remains
unknown. Here we identify and characterize two members of the nitrate/peptide
transporter family, GTR1 and GTR2, as high-affinity, proton-dependent
glucosinolate-specific transporters. The gtr1 gtr2 double mutant did not
accumulate glucosinolates in seeds and had more than tenfold over-accumulation in
source tissues such as leaves and silique walls, indicating that both plasma
membrane-localized transporters are essential for long-distance transport of
glucosinolates. We propose that GTR1 and GTR2 control the loading of
glucosinolates from the apoplasm into the phloem. Identification of the
glucosinolate transporters has agricultural potential as a means to control
allocation of defence compounds in a tissue-specific manner.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11285 
PMID: 22864417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):522-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11287.

A restricted cell population propagates glioblastoma growth after chemotherapy.

Chen J(1), Li Y, Yu TS, McKay RM, Burns DK, Kernie SG, Parada LF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390-9133, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Oct;9(10):552.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Sep;12(9):579.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):462-3.
    Nat Methods. 2012 Oct;9(10):942-3.

Glioblastoma multiforme is the most common primary malignant brain tumour, with a
median survival of about one year. This poor prognosis is due to therapeutic
resistance and tumour recurrence after surgical removal. Precisely how recurrence
occurs is unknown. Using a genetically engineered mouse model of glioma, here we 
identify a subset of endogenous tumour cells that are the source of new tumour
cells after the drug temozolomide (TMZ) is administered to transiently arrest
tumour growth. A nestin-ΔTK-IRES-GFP (Nes-ΔTK-GFP) transgene that labels
quiescent subventricular zone adult neural stem cells also labels a subset of
endogenous glioma tumour cells. On arrest of tumour cell proliferation with TMZ, 
pulse-chase experiments demonstrate a tumour re-growth cell hierarchy originating
with the Nes-ΔTK-GFP transgene subpopulation. Ablation of the GFP+ cells with
chronic ganciclovir administration significantly arrested tumour growth, and
combined TMZ and ganciclovir treatment impeded tumour development. Thus, a
relatively quiescent subset of endogenous glioma cells, with properties similar
to those proposed for cancer stem cells, is responsible for sustaining long-term 
tumour growth through the production of transient populations of highly
proliferative cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11287 
PMCID: PMC3427400
PMID: 22854781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):527-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11344.

Defining the mode of tumour growth by clonal analysis.

Driessens G(1), Beck B, Caauwe A, Simons BD, Blanpain C.

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles, IRIBHM, Brussels B-1070, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Oct;9(10):552.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):462-3.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Sep;12(9):579.
    Nat Methods. 2012 Oct;9(10):942-3.

Recent studies using the isolation of a subpopulation of tumour cells followed by
their transplantation into immunodeficient mice provide evidence that certain
tumours, including squamous skin tumours, contain cells with high clonogenic
potential that have been referred to as cancer stem cells (CSCs). Until now, CSC 
properties have only been investigated by transplantation assays, and their
existence in unperturbed tumour growth is unproven. Here we make use of clonal
analysis of squamous skin tumours using genetic lineage tracing to unravel the
mode of tumour growth in vivo in its native environment. To this end, we used a
genetic labelling strategy that allows individual tumour cells to be marked and
traced over time at different stages of tumour progression. Surprisingly, we
found that the majority of labelled tumour cells in benign papilloma have only
limited proliferative potential, whereas a fraction has the capacity to persist
long term, giving rise to progeny that occupy a significant part of the tumour.
As well as confirming the presence of two distinct proliferative cell
compartments within the papilloma, mirroring the composition, hierarchy and fate 
behaviour of normal tissue, quantitative analysis of clonal fate data indicates
that the more persistent population has stem-cell-like characteristics and cycles
twice per day, whereas the second represents a slower cycling transient
population that gives rise to terminally differentiated tumour cells. Such
behaviour is shown to be consistent with double-labelling experiments and
detailed clonal fate characteristics. By contrast, measurements of clone size and
proliferative potential in invasive squamous cell carcinoma show a different
pattern of behaviour, consistent with geometric expansion of a single CSC
population with limited potential for terminal differentiation. This study
presents the first experimental evidence for the existence of CSCs during
unperturbed solid tumour growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11344 
PMCID: PMC5553110
PMID: 22854777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):517-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11305.

Protocadherins mediate dendritic self-avoidance in the mammalian nervous system.

Lefebvre JL(1), Kostadinov D, Chen WV, Maniatis T, Sanes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Brain Science and Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Dendritic arborizations of many neurons are patterned by a process called
self-avoidance, in which branches arising from a single neuron repel each other. 
By minimizing gaps and overlaps within the arborization, self-avoidance
facilitates complete coverage of a neuron’s territory by its neurites.
Remarkably, some neurons that display self-avoidance interact freely with other
neurons of the same subtype, implying that they discriminate self from non-self. 
Here we demonstrate roles for the clustered protocadherins (Pcdhs) in dendritic
self-avoidance and self/non-self discrimination. The Pcdh locus encodes 58
related cadherin-like transmembrane proteins, at least some of which exhibit
isoform-specific homophilic adhesion in heterologous cells and are expressed
stochastically and combinatorially in single neurons. Deletion of all 22 Pcdh
genes in the mouse γ-subcluster (Pcdhg genes) disrupts self-avoidance of
dendrites in retinal starburst amacrine cells (SACs) and cerebellar Purkinje
cells. Further genetic analysis of SACs showed that Pcdhg proteins act
cell-autonomously during development, and that replacement of the 22 Pcdhg
proteins with a single isoform restores self-avoidance. Moreover, expression of
the same single isoform in all SACs decreases interactions among dendrites of
neighbouring SACs (heteroneuronal interactions). These results suggest that
homophilic Pcdhg interactions between sibling neurites (isoneuronal interactions)
generate a repulsive signal that leads to self-avoidance. In this model,
heteroneuronal interactions are normally permitted because dendrites seldom
encounter a matched set of Pcdhg proteins unless they emanate from the same soma.
In many respects, our results mirror those reported for Dscam1 (Down syndrome
cell adhesion molecule) in Drosophila: this complex gene encodes thousands of
recognition molecules that exhibit stochastic expression and isoform-specific
interactions, and mediate both self-avoidance and self/non-self discrimination.
Thus, although insect Dscam and vertebrate Pcdh proteins share no sequence
homology, they seem to underlie similar strategies for endowing neurons with
distinct molecular identities and patterning their arborizations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11305 
PMCID: PMC3427422
PMID: 22842903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):504-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11273.

Chromatin organization is a major influence on regional mutation rates in human
cancer cells.

Schuster-Böckler B(1), Lehner B.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL-CRG Systems Biology Unit, CRG and UPF, Barcelona 08003, Spain.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Sep;13(9):596-7.

Cancer genome sequencing provides the first direct information on how mutation
rates vary across the human genome in somatic cells. Testing diverse genetic and 
epigenetic features, here we show that mutation rates in cancer genomes are
strikingly related to chromatin organization. Indeed, at the megabase scale, a
single feature—levels of the heterochromatin-associated histone modification
H3K9me3—can account for more than 40% of mutation-rate variation, and a
combination of features can account for more than 55%. The strong association
between mutation rates and chromatin organization is upheld in samples from
different tissues and for different mutation types. This suggests that the
arrangement of the genome into heterochromatin- and euchromatin-like domains is a
dominant influence on regional mutation-rate variation in human somatic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11273 
PMID: 22820252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):512-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11304.

A subset of dopamine neurons signals reward for odour memory in Drosophila.

Liu C(1), Plaçais PY, Yamagata N, Pfeiffer BD, Aso Y, Friedrich AB, Siwanowicz I,
Rubin GM, Preat T, Tanimoto H.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Neurobiologie, Martinsried 82152, Germany.

Animals approach stimuli that predict a pleasant outcome. After the paired
presentation of an odour and a reward, Drosophila melanogaster can develop a
conditioned approach towards that odour. Despite recent advances in understanding
the neural circuits for associative memory and appetitive motivation, the
cellular mechanisms for reward processing in the fly brain are unknown. Here we
show that a group of dopamine neurons in the protocerebral anterior medial (PAM) 
cluster signals sugar reward by transient activation and inactivation of target
neurons in intact behaving flies. These dopamine neurons are selectively required
for the reinforcing property of, but not a reflexive response to, the sugar
stimulus. In vivo calcium imaging revealed that these neurons are activated by
sugar ingestion and the activation is increased on starvation. The output sites
of the PAM neurons are mainly localized to the medial lobes of the mushroom
bodies (MBs), where appetitive olfactory associative memory is formed. We
therefore propose that the PAM cluster neurons endow a positive predictive value 
to the odour in the MBs. Dopamine in insects is known to mediate aversive
reinforcement signals. Our results highlight the cellular specificity underlying 
the various roles of dopamine and the importance of spatially segregated local
circuits within the MBs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11304 
PMID: 22810589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):499-503. doi: 10.1038/nature11280.

Mutations in the profilin 1 gene cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Wu CH(1), Fallini C, Ticozzi N, Keagle PJ, Sapp PC, Piotrowska K, Lowe P, Koppers
M, McKenna-Yasek D, Baron DM, Kost JE, Gonzalez-Perez P, Fox AD, Adams J, Taroni 
F, Tiloca C, Leclerc AL, Chafe SC, Mangroo D, Moore MJ, Zitzewitz JA, Xu ZS, van 
den Berg LH, Glass JD, Siciliano G, Cirulli ET, Goldstein DB, Salachas F,
Meininger V, Rossoll W, Ratti A, Gellera C, Bosco DA, Bassell GJ, Silani V, Drory
VE, Brown RH Jr, Landers JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder
resulting from motor neuron death. Approximately 10% of cases are familial
(FALS), typically with a dominant inheritance mode. Despite numerous advances in 
recent years, nearly 50% of FALS cases have unknown genetic aetiology. Here we
show that mutations within the profilin 1 (PFN1) gene can cause FALS. PFN1 is
crucial for the conversion of monomeric (G)-actin to filamentous (F)-actin. Exome
sequencing of two large ALS families showed different mutations within the PFN1
gene. Further sequence analysis identified 4 mutations in 7 out of 274 FALS
cases. Cells expressing PFN1 mutants contain ubiquitinated, insoluble aggregates 
that in many cases contain the ALS-associated protein TDP-43. PFN1 mutants also
display decreased bound actin levels and can inhibit axon outgrowth. Furthermore,
primary motor neurons expressing mutant PFN1 display smaller growth cones with a 
reduced F/G-actin ratio. These observations further document that cytoskeletal
pathway alterations contribute to ALS pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11280 
PMCID: PMC3575525
PMID: 22801503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):508-511. doi: 10.1038/nature11307.

TNF receptor 1 genetic risk mirrors outcome of anti-TNF therapy in multiple
sclerosis.

Gregory AP(#)(1), Dendrou CA(#)(2), Attfield KE(2), Haghikia A(2)(3), Xifara
DK(4), Butter F(5), Poschmann G(6), Kaur G(1), Lambert L(2), Leach OA(2), Prömel 
S(2), Punwani D(1), Felce JH(1), Davis SJ(1), Gold R(3), Nielsen FC(7), Siegel
RM(8), Mann M(5), Bell JI(9), McVean G(4), Fugger L(1)(2)(10).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Immunology Unit, Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, John
Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DS, UK.
(2)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Division of Clinical Neurology,
John Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DS, UK.
(3)Department of Neurology, St. Josef-Hospital Bochum, Ruhr-University Bochum,
44791 Bochum, Germany.
(4)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt Drive, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.
(5)Department of Proteomics and Signal Transduction, Max-Planck-Institute of
Biochemistry, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.
(6)Molecular Proteomics Laboratory, Biologisch-Medizinisches Forschungszentrum,
Heinrich-Heine Universität Düsseldorf, D-40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(7)Center for Genomic Medicine, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, DK-2100
Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
(8)Immunoregulation Section, Autoimmunity Branch, National Institute of Arthritis
and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases/NIH, 10 Center Drive, Bethesda, MD
20892-1930, USA.
(9)Richard Doll Building, Roosevelt Drive, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7DG, 
UK.
(10)Clinical Institute, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby Sygehus, 8200 N
Aarhus, Denmark.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Sep;8(9):476.

Although there has been much success in identifying genetic variants associated
with common diseases using genome-wide association studies (GWAS), it has been
difficult to demonstrate which variants are causal and what role they have in
disease. Moreover, the modest contribution that these variants make to disease
risk has raised questions regarding their medical relevance. Here we have
investigated a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the TNFRSF1A gene, that
encodes tumour necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), which was discovered through
GWAS to be associated with multiple sclerosis (MS), but not with other autoimmune
conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and Crohn’s disease. By
analysing MS GWAS data in conjunction with the 1000 Genomes Project data we
provide genetic evidence that strongly implicates this SNP, rs1800693, as the
causal variant in the TNFRSF1A region. We further substantiate this through
functional studies showing that the MS risk allele directs expression of a novel,
soluble form of TNFR1 that can block TNF. Importantly, TNF-blocking drugs can
promote onset or exacerbation of MS, but they have proven highly efficacious in
the treatment of autoimmune diseases for which there is no association with
rs1800693. This indicates that the clinical experience with these drugs parallels
the disease association of rs1800693, and that the MS-associated TNFR1 variant
mimics the effect of TNF-blocking drugs. Hence, our study demonstrates that
clinical practice can be informed by comparing GWAS across common autoimmune
diseases and by investigating the functional consequences of the
disease-associated genetic variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11307 
PMCID: PMC4268493
PMID: 22801493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2012 Aug 23;488(7412):540-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11269.

The human CST complex is a terminator of telomerase activity.

Chen LY(1), Redon S, Lingner J.

Author information: 
(1)Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research (ISREC), Ecole Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne, Station 19, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

The lengths of human telomeres, which protect chromosome ends from degradation
and end fusions, are crucial determinants of cell lifespan. During embryogenesis 
and in cancer, the telomerase enzyme counteracts telomeric DNA shortening. As
shown in cancer cells, human telomerase binds the shelterin component TPP1 at
telomeres during the S phase of the cell cycle, and adds ~60 nucleotides in a
single round of extension, after which telomerase is turned off by unknown
mechanisms. Here we show that the human CST (CTC1, STN1 and TEN1) complex,
previously implicated in telomere protection and DNA metabolism, inhibits
telomerase activity through primer sequestration and physical interaction with
the protection of telomeres 1 (POT1)–TPP1 telomerase processivity factor. CST
competes with POT1–TPP1 for telomeric DNA, and CST–telomeric-DNA binding
increases during late S/G2 phase only on telomerase action, coinciding with
telomerase shut-off. Depletion of CST allows excessive telomerase activity,
promoting telomere elongation. We propose that through binding of the
telomerase-extended telomere, CST limits telomerase action at individual
telomeres to approximately one binding and extension event per cell cycle. Our
findings define the sequence of events that occur to first enable and then
terminate telomerase-mediated telomere elongation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11269 
PMID: 22763445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):365-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11358.

More extreme swings of the South Pacific convergence zone due to greenhouse
warming.

Cai W(1), Lengaigne M, Borlace S, Collins M, Cowan T, McPhaden MJ, Timmermann A, 
Power S, Brown J, Menkes C, Ngari A, Vincent EM, Widlansky MJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, Aspendale, Victoria 3195, Australia.
wenju.cai@csiro.au

The South Pacific convergence zone (SPCZ) is the Southern Hemisphere's most
expansive and persistent rain band, extending from the equatorial western Pacific
Ocean southeastward towards French Polynesia. Owing to its strong rainfall
gradient, a small displacement in the position of the SPCZ causes drastic changes
to hydroclimatic conditions and the frequency of extreme weather events--such as 
droughts, floods and tropical cyclones--experienced by vulnerable island
countries in the region. The SPCZ position varies from its climatological mean
location with the El Niño/Southern Oscillation (ENSO), moving a few degrees
northward during moderate El Niño events and southward during La Niña events.
During strong El Niño events, however, the SPCZ undergoes an extreme swing--by up
to ten degrees of latitude toward the Equator--and collapses to a more zonally
oriented structure with commensurately severe weather impacts. Understanding
changes in the characteristics of the SPCZ in a changing climate is therefore of 
broad scientific and socioeconomic interest. Here we present climate modelling
evidence for a near doubling in the occurrences of zonal SPCZ events between the 
periods 1891-1990 and 1991-2090 in response to greenhouse warming, even in the
absence of a consensus on how ENSO will change. We estimate the increase in zonal
SPCZ events from an aggregation of the climate models in the Coupled Model
Intercomparison Project phases 3 and 5 (CMIP3 and CMIP5) multi-model database
that are able to simulate such events. The change is caused by a projected
enhanced equatorial warming in the Pacific and may lead to more frequent
occurrences of extreme events across the Pacific island nations most affected by 
zonal SPCZ events.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11358 
PMID: 22895343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):357-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11341.

Electronic read-out of a single nuclear spin using a molecular spin transistor.

Vincent R(1), Klyatskaya S, Ruben M, Wernsdorfer W, Balestro F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Néel, CNRS et Université Joseph Fourier, BP 166, F-38042 Grenoble
Cedex 9, France.

Quantum control of individual spins in condensed-matter devices is an emerging
field with a wide range of applications, from nanospintronics to quantum
computing. The electron, possessing spin and orbital degrees of freedom, is
conventionally used as the carrier of quantum information in proposed devices.
However, electrons couple strongly to the environment, and so have very short
relaxation and coherence times. It is therefore extremely difficult to achieve
quantum coherence and stable entanglement of electron spins. Alternative concepts
propose nuclear spins as the building blocks for quantum computing, because such 
spins are extremely well isolated from the environment and less prone to
decoherence. However, weak coupling comes at a price: it remains challenging to
address and manipulate individual nuclear spins. Here we show that the nuclear
spin of an individual metal atom embedded in a single-molecule magnet can be read
out electronically. The observed long lifetimes (tens of seconds) and relaxation 
characteristics of nuclear spin at the single-atom scale open the way to a
completely new world of devices in which quantum logic may be implemented.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11341 
PMID: 22895342 


375. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):353-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11339.

Room-temperature solid-state maser.

Oxborrow M(1), Breeze JD, Alford NM.

Author information: 
(1)National Physical Laboratory, Hampton Road, Teddington TW11 0LW, UK.
mo@npl.co.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):285-6.

The invention of the laser has resulted in many innovations, and the device has
become ubiquitous. However, the maser, which amplifies microwave radiation rather
than visible light, has not had as large an impact, despite being instrumental in
the laser's birth. The maser's relative obscurity has mainly been due to the
inconvenience of the operating conditions needed for its various realizations:
atomic and free-electron masers require vacuum chambers and pumping; and
solid-state masers, although they excel as low-noise amplifiers and are
occasionally incorporated in ultrastable oscillators, typically require cryogenic
refrigeration. Most realizations of masers also require strong magnets, magnetic 
shielding or both. Overcoming these various obstacles would pave the way for
improvements such as more-sensitive chemical assays, more-precise determinations 
of biomolecular structure and function, and more-accurate medical diagnostics
(including tomography) based on enhanced magnetic resonance spectrometers
incorporating maser amplifiers and oscillators. Here we report the experimental
demonstration of a solid-state maser operating at room temperature in pulsed
mode. It works on a laboratory bench, in air, in the terrestrial magnetic field
and amplifies at around 1.45 gigahertz. In contrast to the cryogenic ruby maser, 
in our maser the gain medium is an organic mixed molecular crystal, p-terphenyl
doped with pentacene, the latter being photo-excited by yellow light. The maser's
pumping mechanism exploits spin-selective molecular intersystem crossing into
pentacene's triplet ground state. When configured as an oscillator, the
solid-state maser's measured output power of around -10 decibel milliwatts is
approximately 100 million times greater than that of an atomic hydrogen maser,
which oscillates at a similar frequency (about 1.42 gigahertz). By exploiting the
high levels of spin polarization readily generated by intersystem crossing in
photo-excited pentacene and other aromatic molecules, this new type of maser
seems to be capable of amplifying with a residual noise temperature far below
room temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11339 
PMID: 22895341 


376. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):349-52. doi: 10.1038/nature11379.

A massive, cooling-flow-induced starburst in the core of a luminous cluster of
galaxies.

McDonald M(1), Bayliss M, Benson BA, Foley RJ, Ruel J, Sullivan P, Veilleux S,
Aird KA, Ashby ML, Bautz M, Bazin G, Bleem LE, Brodwin M, Carlstrom JE, Chang CL,
Cho HM, Clocchiatti A, Crawford TM, Crites AT, de Haan T, Desai S, Dobbs MA,
Dudley JP, Egami E, Forman WR, Garmire GP, George EM, Gladders MD, Gonzalez AH,
Halverson NW, Harrington NL, High FW, Holder GP, Holzapfel WL, Hoover S, Hrubes
JD, Jones C, Joy M, Keisler R, Knox L, Lee AT, Leitch EM, Liu J, Lueker M,
Luong-Van D, Mantz A, Marrone DP, McMahon JJ, Mehl J, Meyer SS, Miller ED, Mocanu
L, Mohr JJ, Montroy TE, Murray SS, Natoli T, Padin S, Plagge T, Pryke C, Rawle
TD, Reichardt CL, Rest A, Rex M, Ruhl JE, Saliwanchik BR, Saro A, Sayre JT,
Schaffer KK, Shaw L, Shirokoff E, Simcoe R, Song J, Spieler HG, Stalder B,
Staniszewski Z, Stark AA, Story K, Stubbs CW, Suhada R, van Engelen A,
Vanderlinde K, Vieira JD, Vikhlinin A, Williamson R, Zahn O, Zenteno A.

Author information: 
(1)MIT Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
mcdonald@space.mit.edu

In the cores of some clusters of galaxies the hot intracluster plasma is dense
enough that it should cool radiatively in the cluster's lifetime, leading to
continuous 'cooling flows' of gas sinking towards the cluster centre, yet no such
cooling flow has been observed. The low observed star-formation rates and cool
gas masses for these 'cool-core' clusters suggest that much of the cooling must
be offset by feedback to prevent the formation of a runaway cooling flow. Here we
report X-ray, optical and infrared observations of the galaxy cluster
SPT-CLJ2344-4243 (ref. 11) at redshift z = 0.596. These observations reveal an
exceptionally luminous (8.2 × 10(45) erg s(-1)) galaxy cluster that hosts an
extremely strong cooling flow (around 3,820 solar masses a year). Further, the
central galaxy in this cluster appears to be experiencing a massive starburst
(formation of around 740 solar masses a year), which suggests that the feedback
source responsible for preventing runaway cooling in nearby cool-core clusters
may not yet be fully established in SPT-CLJ2344-4243. This large star-formation
rate implies that a significant fraction of the stars in the central galaxy of
this cluster may form through accretion of the intracluster medium, rather than
(as is currently thought) assembling entirely via mergers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11379 
PMID: 22895340 


377. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):337-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11331.

Passenger deletions generate therapeutic vulnerabilities in cancer.

Muller FL(1), Colla S, Aquilanti E, Manzo VE, Genovese G, Lee J, Eisenson D,
Narurkar R, Deng P, Nezi L, Lee MA, Hu B, Hu J, Sahin E, Ong D,
Fletcher-Sananikone E, Ho D, Kwong L, Brennan C, Wang YA, Chin L, DePinho RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genomic Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Sep 10;525(7568):278.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):284-5.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Sep;11(9):671.

Inactivation of tumour-suppressor genes by homozygous deletion is a prototypic
event in the cancer genome, yet such deletions often encompass neighbouring
genes. We propose that homozygous deletions in such passenger genes can expose
cancer-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities when the collaterally deleted gene is
a member of a functionally redundant family of genes carrying out an essential
function. The glycolytic gene enolase 1 (ENO1) in the 1p36 locus is deleted in
glioblastoma (GBM), which is tolerated by the expression of ENO2. Here we show
that short-hairpin-RNA-mediated silencing of ENO2 selectively inhibits growth,
survival and the tumorigenic potential of ENO1-deleted GBM cells, and that the
enolase inhibitor phosphonoacetohydroxamate is selectively toxic to ENO1-deleted 
GBM cells relative to ENO1-intact GBM cells or normal astrocytes. The principle
of collateral vulnerability should be applicable to other passenger-deleted genes
encoding functionally redundant essential activities and provide an effective
treatment strategy for cancers containing such genomic events.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11331 
PMCID: PMC3712624
PMID: 22895339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):329-35. doi: 10.1038/nature11479.

Exploiting diversity and synthetic biology for the production of algal biofuels.

Georgianna DR(1), Mayfield SP.

Author information: 
(1)San Diego Center for Algae Biotechnology, Division of Biological Sciences,
University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California
92093, USA.

Modern life is intimately linked to the availability of fossil fuels, which
continue to meet the world's growing energy needs even though their use drives
climate change, exhausts finite reserves and contributes to global political
strife. Biofuels made from renewable resources could be a more sustainable
alternative, particularly if sourced from organisms, such as algae, that can be
farmed without using valuable arable land. Strain development and process
engineering are needed to make algal biofuels practical and economically viable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11479 
PMID: 22895338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):320-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11478.

Microbial engineering for the production of advanced biofuels.

Peralta-Yahya PP(1), Zhang F, del Cardayre SB, Keasling JD.

Author information: 
(1)Joint BioEnergy Institute, 5885 Hollis Street, Emeryville, California 94608,
USA.

Advanced biofuels produced by microorganisms have similar properties to
petroleum-based fuels, and can 'drop in' to the existing transportation
infrastructure. However, producing these biofuels in yields high enough to be
useful requires the engineering of the microorganism's metabolism. Such
engineering is not based on just one specific feedstock or host organism.
Data-driven and synthetic-biology approaches can be used to optimize both the
host and pathways to maximize fuel production. Despite some success, challenges
still need to be met to move advanced biofuels towards commercialization, and to 
compete with more conventional fuels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11478 
PMID: 22895337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):313-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11477.

Membrane-based processes for sustainable power generation using water.

Logan BE(1), Elimelech M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, The Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA. blogan@psu.edu

Water has always been crucial to combustion and hydroelectric processes, but it
could become the source of power in membrane-based systems that capture energy
from natural and waste waters. Two processes are emerging as sustainable methods 
for capturing energy from sea water: pressure-retarded osmosis and reverse
electrodialysis. These processes can also capture energy from waste heat by
generating artificial salinity gradients using synthetic solutions, such as
thermolytic salts. A further source of energy comes from organic matter in waste 
waters, which can be harnessed using microbial fuel-cell technology, allowing
both wastewater treatment and power production.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11477 
PMID: 22895336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):304-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11476.

Materials interface engineering for solution-processed photovoltaics.

Graetzel M(1), Janssen RA, Mitzi DB, Sargent EH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Photonics and Interfaces, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, 
CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Advances in solar photovoltaics are urgently needed to increase the performance
and reduce the cost of harvesting solar power. Solution-processed photovoltaics
are cost-effective to manufacture and offer the potential for physical
flexibility. Rapid progress in their development has increased their solar-power 
conversion efficiencies. The nanometre (electron) and micrometre (photon) scale
interfaces between the crystalline domains that make up solution-processed solar 
cells are crucial for efficient charge transport. These interfaces include large 
surface area junctions between photoelectron donors and acceptors, the intralayer
grain boundaries within the absorber, and the interfaces between photoactive
layers and the top and bottom contacts. Controlling the collection and minimizing
the trapping of charge carriers at these boundaries is crucial to efficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11476 
PMID: 22895335 


382. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):294-303. doi: 10.1038/nature11475.

Opportunities and challenges for a sustainable energy future.

Chu S(1), Majumdar A.

Author information: 
(1)US Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington DC 20585,
USA. the.secretary@hq.doe.gov

Access to clean, affordable and reliable energy has been a cornerstone of the
world's increasing prosperity and economic growth since the beginning of the
industrial revolution. Our use of energy in the twenty-first century must also be
sustainable. Solar and water-based energy generation, and engineering of microbes
to produce biofuels are a few examples of the alternatives. This Perspective puts
these opportunities into a larger context by relating them to a number of aspects
in the transportation and electricity generation sectors. It also provides a
snapshot of the current energy landscape and discusses several research and
development opportunities and pathways that could lead to a prosperous,
sustainable and secure energy future for the world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11475 
PMID: 22895334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):361-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11338.

Doubling of marine dinitrogen-fixation rates based on direct measurements.

Großkopf T(1), Mohr W, Baustian T, Schunck H, Gill D, Kuypers MM, Lavik G,
Schmitz RA, Wallace DW, LaRoche J.

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, Kiel, Germany. tgrosskopf@geomar.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):290-1.

Biological dinitrogen fixation provides the largest input of nitrogen to the
oceans, therefore exerting important control on the ocean's nitrogen inventory
and primary productivity. Nitrogen-isotope data from ocean sediments suggest that
the marine-nitrogen inventory has been balanced for the past 3,000 years (ref.
4). Producing a balanced marine-nitrogen budget based on direct measurements has 
proved difficult, however, with nitrogen loss exceeding the gain from dinitrogen 
fixation by approximately 200 Tg N yr−1 (refs 5, 6). Here we present data from
the Atlantic Ocean and show that the most widely used method of measuring oceanic
N2-fixation rates underestimates the contribution of N2-fixing microorganisms
(diazotrophs) relative to a newly developed method. Using molecular techniques to
quantify the abundance of specific clades of diazotrophs in parallel with rates
of 15N2 incorporation into particulate organic matter, we suggest that the
difference between N2-fixation rates measured with the established method and
those measured with the new method can be related to the composition of the
diazotrophic community. Our data show that in areas dominated by Trichodesmium,
the established method underestimates N2-fixation rates by an average of 62%. We 
also find that the newly developed method yields N2-fixation rates more than six 
times higher than those from the established method when unicellular, symbiotic
cyanobacteria and γ-proteobacteria dominate the diazotrophic community. On the
basis of average areal rates measured over the Atlantic Ocean, we calculated
basin-wide N2-fixation rates of 14 ± 1 Tg N yr−1 and 24 ±1 Tg N yr−1 for the
established and new methods, respectively. If our findings can be extrapolated to
other ocean basins, this suggests that the global marine N2-fixation rate derived
from direct measurements may increase from 103 ± 8 Tg N yr−1 to
177 ± 8 Tg N yr−1, and that the contribution of N2 fixers other than
Trichodesmium is much more significant than was previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11338 
PMID: 22878720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):379-83. doi: 10.1038/nature11312.

Activation of specific interneurons improves V1 feature selectivity and visual
perception.

Lee SH(1), Kwan AC, Zhang S, Phoumthipphavong V, Flannery JG, Masmanidis SC,
Taniguchi H, Huang ZJ, Zhang F, Boyden ES, Deisseroth K, Dan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Helen
Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):E1-2.

Inhibitory interneurons are essential components of the neural circuits
underlying various brain functions. In the neocortex, a large diversity of GABA
(γ-aminobutyric acid) interneurons has been identified on the basis of their
morphology, molecular markers, biophysical properties and innervation pattern.
However, how the activity of each subtype of interneurons contributes to sensory 
processing remains unclear. Here we show that optogenetic activation of
parvalbumin-positive (PV+) interneurons in the mouse primary visual cortex (V1)
sharpens neuronal feature selectivity and improves perceptual discrimination.
Using multichannel recording with silicon probes and channelrhodopsin-2
(ChR2)-mediated optical activation, we found that increased spiking of PV+
interneurons markedly sharpened orientation tuning and enhanced direction
selectivity of nearby neurons. These effects were caused by the activation of
inhibitory neurons rather than a decreased spiking of excitatory neurons, as
archaerhodopsin-3 (Arch)-mediated optical silencing of
calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIα (CAMKIIα)-positive excitatory
neurons caused no significant change in V1 stimulus selectivity. Moreover, the
improved selectivity specifically required PV+ neuron activation, as activating
somatostatin or vasointestinal peptide interneurons had no significant effect.
Notably, PV+ neuron activation in awake mice caused a significant improvement in 
their orientation discrimination, mirroring the sharpened V1 orientation tuning. 
Together, these results provide the first demonstration that visual coding and
perception can be improved by increased spiking of a specific subtype of cortical
inhibitory interneurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11312 
PMCID: PMC3422431
PMID: 22878719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):343-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11347.

Division and subtraction by distinct cortical inhibitory networks in vivo.

Wilson NR(1), Runyan CA, Wang FL, Sur M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Picower Institute for Learning and
Memory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):E3-4.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):E1-2.

Brain circuits process information through specialized neuronal subclasses
interacting within a network. Revealing their interplay requires activating
specific cells while monitoring others in a functioning circuit. Here we use a
new platform for two-way light-based circuit interrogation in visual cortex in
vivo to show the computational implications of modulating different subclasses of
inhibitory neurons during sensory processing. We find that soma-targeting,
parvalbumin-expressing (PV) neurons principally divide responses but preserve
stimulus selectivity, whereas dendrite-targeting, somatostatin-expressing (SOM)
neurons principally subtract from excitatory responses and sharpen selectivity.
Visualized in vivo cell-attached recordings show that division by PV neurons
alters response gain, whereas subtraction by SOM neurons shifts response levels. 
Finally, stimulating identified neurons while scanning many target cells reveals 
that single PV and SOM neurons functionally impact only specific subsets of
neurons in their projection fields. These findings provide direct evidence that
inhibitory neuronal subclasses have distinct and complementary roles in cortical 
computations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11347 
PMCID: PMC3653570
PMID: 22878717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):404-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11262.

A selective jumonji H3K27 demethylase inhibitor modulates the proinflammatory
macrophage response.

Kruidenier L(1), Chung CW, Cheng Z, Liddle J, Che K, Joberty G, Bantscheff M,
Bountra C, Bridges A, Diallo H, Eberhard D, Hutchinson S, Jones E, Katso R,
Leveridge M, Mander PK, Mosley J, Ramirez-Molina C, Rowland P, Schofield CJ,
Sheppard RJ, Smith JE, Swales C, Tanner R, Thomas P, Tumber A, Drewes G,
Oppermann U, Patel DJ, Lee K, Wilson DM.

Author information: 
(1)Epinova DPU, Immuno-Inflammation Therapy Area, GlaxoSmithKline R&D, Medicines 
Research Centre, Stevenage SG1 2NY, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Sep;11(9):672.
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):E2.
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):E1-2.

The jumonji (JMJ) family of histone demethylases are Fe2+- and
α-ketoglutarate-dependent oxygenases that are essential components of regulatory 
transcriptional chromatin complexes. These enzymes demethylate lysine residues in
histones in a methylation-state and sequence-specific context. Considerable
effort has been devoted to gaining a mechanistic understanding of the roles of
histone lysine demethylases in eukaryotic transcription, genome integrity and
epigenetic inheritance, as well as in development, physiology and disease.
However, because of the absence of any selective inhibitors, the relevance of the
demethylase activity of JMJ enzymes in regulating cellular responses remains
poorly understood. Here we present a structure-guided small-molecule and
chemoproteomics approach to elucidating the functional role of the
H3K27me3-specific demethylase subfamily (KDM6 subfamily members JMJD3 and UTX).
The liganded structures of human and mouse JMJD3 provide novel insight into the
specificity determinants for cofactor, substrate and inhibitor recognition by the
KDM6 subfamily of demethylases. We exploited these structural features to
generate the first small-molecule catalytic site inhibitor that is selective for 
the H3K27me3-specific JMJ subfamily. We demonstrate that this inhibitor binds in 
a novel manner and reduces lipopolysaccharide-induced proinflammatory cytokine
production by human primary macrophages, a process that depends on both JMJD3 and
UTX. Our results resolve the ambiguity associated with the catalytic function of 
H3K27-specific JMJs in regulating disease-relevant inflammatory responses and
provide encouragement for designing small-molecule inhibitors to allow selective 
pharmacological intervention across the JMJ family.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11262 
PMCID: PMC4691848
PMID: 22842901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):384-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11259.

Bacterial virulence proteins as tools to rewire kinase pathways in yeast and
immune cells.

Wei P(1), Wong WW, Park JS, Corcoran EE, Peisajovich SG, Onuffer JJ, Weiss A, Lim
WA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California
San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2012 Sep;9(9):864.

Bacterial pathogens have evolved specific effector proteins that, by interfacing 
with host kinase signalling pathways, provide a mechanism to evade immune
responses during infection. Although these effectors contribute to pathogen
virulence, we realized that they might also serve as valuable synthetic biology
reagents for engineering cellular behaviour. Here we exploit two effector
proteins, the Shigella flexneri OspF protein and Yersinia pestis YopH protein, to
rewire kinase-mediated responses systematically both in yeast and mammalian
immune cells. Bacterial effector proteins can be directed to inhibit specific
mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways selectively in yeast by artificially
targeting them to pathway-specific complexes. Moreover, we show that unique
properties of the effectors generate new pathway behaviours: OspF, which
irreversibly inactivates mitogen-activated protein kinases, was used to construct
a synthetic feedback circuit that shows novel frequency-dependent input
filtering. Finally, we show that effectors can be used in T cells, either as
feedback modulators to tune the T-cell response amplitude precisely, or as an
inducible pause switch that can temporarily disable T-cell activation. These
studies demonstrate how pathogens could provide a rich toolkit of parts to
engineer cells for therapeutic or biotechnological applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11259 
PMCID: PMC3422413
PMID: 22820255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):375-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11291.

A biophysical signature of network affiliation and sensory processing in mitral
cells.

Angelo K(1), Rancz EA, Pimentel D, Hundahl C, Hannibal J, Fleischmann A, Pichler 
B, Margrie TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College
London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):289-90.

One defining characteristic of the mammalian brain is its neuronal diversity. For
a given region, substructure, layer or even cell type, variability in neuronal
morphology and connectivity persists. Although it is well known that such
cellular properties vary considerably according to neuronal type, the substantial
biophysical diversity of neurons of the same morphological class is typically
averaged out and ignored. Here we show that the amplitude of
hyperpolarization-evoked sag of membrane potential recorded in olfactory bulb
mitral cells is an emergent, homotypic property of local networks and sensory
information processing. Simultaneous whole-cell recordings from pairs of cells
show that the amount of hyperpolarization-evoked sag potential and current (Ih)
is stereotypic for mitral cells belonging to the same glomerular circuit. This is
corroborated by a mosaic, glomerulus-based pattern of expression of the HCN2
(hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 2) subunit of the Ih
channel. Furthermore, inter-glomerular differences in both membrane potential sag
and HCN2 protein are diminished when sensory input to glomeruli is genetically
and globally altered so that only one type of odorant receptor is universally
expressed. Population diversity in this intrinsic property therefore reflects
differential expression between local mitral cell networks processing distinct
odour-related information.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11291 
PMCID: PMC3442227
PMID: 22820253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):394-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11263.

APJ acts as a dual receptor in cardiac hypertrophy.

Scimia MC(1), Hurtado C, Ray S, Metzler S, Wei K, Wang J, Woods CE, Purcell NH,
Catalucci D, Akasaka T, Bueno OF, Vlasuk GP, Kaliman P, Bodmer R, Smith LH,
Ashley E, Mercola M, Brown JH, Ruiz-Lozano P.

Author information: 
(1)Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Cardiac hypertrophy is initiated as an adaptive response to sustained overload
but progresses pathologically as heart failure ensues. Here we report that
genetic loss of APJ, a G-protein-coupled receptor, confers resistance to chronic 
pressure overload by markedly reducing myocardial hypertrophy and heart failure. 
In contrast, mice lacking apelin (the endogenous APJ ligand) remain sensitive,
suggesting an apelin-independent function of APJ. Freshly isolated APJ-null
cardiomyocytes exhibit an attenuated response to stretch, indicating that APJ is 
a mechanosensor. Activation of APJ by stretch increases cardiomyocyte cell size
and induces molecular markers of hypertrophy. Whereas apelin stimulates APJ to
activate Gαi and elicits a protective response, stretch signals in an
APJ-dependent, G-protein-independent fashion to induce hypertrophy.
Stretch-mediated hypertrophy is prevented by knockdown of β-arrestins or by
pharmacological doses of apelin acting through Gαi. Taken together, our data
indicate that APJ is a bifunctional receptor for both mechanical stretch and the 
endogenous peptide apelin. By sensing the balance between these stimuli, APJ
occupies a pivotal point linking sustained overload to cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11263 
PMCID: PMC3422434
PMID: 22810587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):414-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11267.

The dynamic disulphide relay of quiescin sulphydryl oxidase.

Alon A(1), Grossman I, Gat Y, Kodali VK, DiMaio F, Mehlman T, Haran G, Baker D,
Thorpe C, Fass D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.

Protein stability, assembly, localization and regulation often depend on the
formation of disulphide crosslinks between cysteine side chains. Enzymes known as
sulphydryl oxidases catalyse de novo disulphide formation and initiate intra- and
intermolecular dithiol/disulphide relays to deliver the disulphides to substrate 
proteins. Quiescin sulphydryl oxidase (QSOX) is a unique, multi-domain disulphide
catalyst that is localized primarily to the Golgi apparatus and secreted fluids
and has attracted attention owing to its overproduction in tumours. In addition
to its physiological importance, QSOX is a mechanistically intriguing enzyme,
encompassing functions typically carried out by a series of proteins in other
disulphide-formation pathways. How disulphides are relayed through the multiple
redox-active sites of QSOX and whether there is a functional benefit to
concatenating these sites on a single polypeptide are open questions. Here we
present the first crystal structure of an intact QSOX enzyme, derived from a
trypanosome parasite. Notably, sequential sites in the disulphide relay were
found more than 40 Å apart in this structure, too far for direct disulphide
transfer. To resolve this puzzle, we trapped and crystallized an intermediate in 
the disulphide hand-off, which showed a 165° domain rotation relative to the
original structure, bringing the two active sites within disulphide-bonding
distance. The comparable structure of a mammalian QSOX enzyme, also presented
here, shows further biochemical features that facilitate disulphide transfer in
metazoan orthologues. Finally, we quantified the contribution of concatenation to
QSOX activity, providing general lessons for the understanding of multi-domain
enzymes and the design of new catalytic relays.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11267 
PMCID: PMC3521037
PMID: 22801504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):409-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11272.

The H3K27 demethylase Utx regulates somatic and germ cell epigenetic
reprogramming.

Mansour AA(1), Gafni O, Weinberger L, Zviran A, Ayyash M, Rais Y, Krupalnik V,
Zerbib M, Amann-Zalcenstein D, Maza I, Geula S, Viukov S, Holtzman L, Pribluda A,
Canaani E, Horn-Saban S, Amit I, Novershtern N, Hanna JH.

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can be derived from somatic cells by
ectopic expression of different transcription factors, classically Oct4 (also
known as Pou5f1), Sox2, Klf4 and Myc (abbreviated as OSKM). This process is
accompanied by genome-wide epigenetic changes, but how these chromatin
modifications are biochemically determined requires further investigation. Here
we show in mice and humans that the histone H3 methylated Lys 27 (H3K27)
demethylase Utx (also known as Kdm6a) regulates the efficient induction, rather
than maintenance, of pluripotency. Murine embryonic stem cells lacking Utx can
execute lineage commitment and contribute to adult chimaeric animals; however,
somatic cells lacking Utx fail to robustly reprogram back to the ground state of 
pluripotency. Utx directly partners with OSK reprogramming factors and uses its
histone demethylase catalytic activity to facilitate iPSC formation. Genomic
analysis indicates that Utx depletion results in aberrant dynamics of H3K27me3
repressive chromatin demethylation in somatic cells undergoing reprogramming. The
latter directly hampers the derepression of potent pluripotency promoting gene
modules (including Sall1, Sall4 and Utf1), which can cooperatively substitute for
exogenous OSK supplementation in iPSC formation. Remarkably, Utx safeguards the
timely execution of H3K27me3 demethylation observed in embryonic day 10.5-11
primordial germ cells (PGCs), and Utx-deficient PGCs show cell-autonomous
aberrant epigenetic reprogramming dynamics during their embryonic maturation in
vivo. Subsequently, this disrupts PGC development by embryonic day 12.5, and
leads to diminished germline transmission in mouse chimaeras generated from
Utx-knockout pluripotent cells. Thus, we identify Utx as a novel mediator with
distinct functions during the re-establishment of pluripotency and germ cell
development. Furthermore, our findings highlight the principle that molecular
regulators mediating loss of repressive chromatin during in vivo germ cell
reprogramming can be co-opted during in vitro reprogramming towards ground state 
pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11272 
PMID: 22801502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):370-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11258.

Reconstructing Native American population history.

Reich D(1), Patterson N, Campbell D, Tandon A, Mazieres S, Ray N, Parra MV, Rojas
W, Duque C, Mesa N, García LF, Triana O, Blair S, Maestre A, Dib JC, Bravi CM,
Bailliet G, Corach D, Hünemeier T, Bortolini MC, Salzano FM, Petzl-Erler ML,
Acuña-Alonzo V, Aguilar-Salinas C, Canizales-Quinteros S, Tusié-Luna T, Riba L,
Rodríguez-Cruz M, Lopez-Alarcón M, Coral-Vazquez R, Canto-Cetina T, Silva-Zolezzi
I, Fernandez-Lopez JC, Contreras AV, Jimenez-Sanchez G, Gómez-Vázquez MJ, Molina 
J, Carracedo A, Salas A, Gallo C, Poletti G, Witonsky DB, Alkorta-Aranburu G,
Sukernik RI, Osipova L, Fedorova SA, Vasquez R, Villena M, Moreau C, Barrantes R,
Pauls D, Excoffier L, Bedoya G, Rothhammer F, Dugoujon JM, Larrouy G, Klitz W,
Labuda D, Kidd J, Kidd K, Di Rienzo A, Freimer NB, Price AL, Ruiz-Linares A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA. reich@genetics.med.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 8;491(7423):288.

The peopling of the Americas has been the subject of extensive genetic,
archaeological and linguistic research; however, central questions remain
unresolved. One contentious issue is whether the settlement occurred by means of 
a single migration or multiple streams of migration from Siberia. The pattern of 
dispersals within the Americas is also poorly understood. To address these
questions at a higher resolution than was previously possible, we assembled data 
from 52 Native American and 17 Siberian groups genotyped at 364,470 single
nucleotide polymorphisms. Here we show that Native Americans descend from at
least three streams of Asian gene flow. Most descend entirely from a single
ancestral population that we call 'First American'. However, speakers of
Eskimo-Aleut languages from the Arctic inherit almost half their ancestry from a 
second stream of Asian gene flow, and the Na-Dene-speaking Chipewyan from Canada 
inherit roughly one-tenth of their ancestry from a third stream. We show that the
initial peopling followed a southward expansion facilitated by the coast, with
sequential population splits and little gene flow after divergence, especially in
South America. A major exception is in Chibchan speakers on both sides of the
Panama isthmus, who have ancestry from both North and South America.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11258 
PMCID: PMC3615710
PMID: 22801491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):389-93. doi: 10.1038/nature11250.

NLRP6 negatively regulates innate immunity and host defence against bacterial
pathogens.

Anand PK(1), Malireddi RK, Lukens JR, Vogel P, Bertin J, Lamkanfi M, Kanneganti
TD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.

Members of the intracellular nucleotide-binding and oligomerization domain
(NOD)-like receptor (NLR) family contribute to immune responses through
activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), type I interferon and inflammasome
signalling. Mice lacking the NLR family member NLRP6 were recently shown to be
susceptible to colitis and colorectal tumorigenesis, but the role of NLRP6 in
microbial infections and the nature of the inflammatory signalling pathways
regulated by NLRP6 remain unclear. Here we show that Nlrp6-deficient mice are
highly resistant to infection with the bacterial pathogens Listeria
monocytogenes, Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli. Infected
Nlrp6-deficient mice had increased numbers of monocytes and neutrophils in
circulation, and NLRP6 signalling in both haematopoietic and radioresistant cells
contributed to increased susceptibility. Nlrp6 deficiency enhanced activation of 
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the canonical NF-κB pathway after
Toll-like receptor ligation, but not cytosolic NOD1/2 ligation, in vitro.
Consequently, infected Nlrp6-deficient cells produced increased levels of NF-κB- 
and MAPK-dependent cytokines and chemokines. Thus, our results reveal NLRP6 as a 
negative regulator of inflammatory signalling, and demonstrate a role for this
NLR in impeding clearance of both Gram-positive and -negative bacterial
pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11250 
PMCID: PMC3422416
PMID: 22763455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nature. 2012 Aug 16;488(7411):399-403. doi: 10.1038/nature11248.

'Slings' enable neutrophil rolling at high shear.

Sundd P(1), Gutierrez E, Koltsova EK, Kuwano Y, Fukuda S, Pospieszalska MK,
Groisman A, Ley K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Inflammation Biology, La Jolla Institute for Allergy and
Immunology, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Most leukocytes can roll along the walls of venules at low shear stress
(1 dyn cm−2), but neutrophils have the ability to roll at tenfold higher shear
stress in microvessels in vivo. The mechanisms involved in this shear-resistant
rolling are known to involve cell flattening and pulling of long membrane tethers
at the rear. Here we show that these long tethers do not retract as postulated,
but instead persist and appear as 'slings' at the front of rolling cells. We
demonstrate slings in a model of acute inflammation in vivo and on P-selectin in 
vitro, where P-selectin-glycoprotein-ligand-1 (PSGL-1) is found in discrete
sticky patches whereas LFA-1 is expressed over the entire length on slings. As
neutrophils roll forward, slings wrap around the rolling cells and undergo a
step-wise peeling from the P-selectin substrate enabled by the failure of PSGL-1 
patches under hydrodynamic forces. The 'step-wise peeling of slings' is distinct 
from the 'pulling of tethers' reported previously. Each sling effectively lays
out a cell-autonomous adhesive substrate in front of neutrophils rolling at high 
shear stress during inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11248 
PMCID: PMC3433404
PMID: 22763437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):201-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11322.

New fossils from Koobi Fora in northern Kenya confirm taxonomic diversity in
early Homo.

Leakey MG(1), Spoor F, Dean MC, Feibel CS, Antón SC, Kiarie C, Leakey LN.

Author information: 
(1)Turkana Basin Institute, PO Box 24926, Nairobi 00502, Kenya.
meaveleakey@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):162-3.

Since its discovery in 1972 (ref. 1), the cranium KNM-ER 1470 has been at the
centre of the debate over the number of species of early Homo present in the
early Pleistocene epoch of eastern Africa. KNM-ER 1470 stands out among other
specimens attributed to early Homo because of its larger size, and its flat and
subnasally orthognathic face with anteriorly placed maxillary zygomatic roots.
This singular morphology and the incomplete preservation of the fossil have led
to different views as to whether KNM-ER 1470 can be accommodated within a single 
species of early Homo that is highly variable because of sexual, geographical and
temporal factors, or whether it provides evidence of species diversity marked by 
differences in cranial size and facial or masticatory adaptation. Here we report 
on three newly discovered fossils, aged between 1.78 and 1.95 million years (Myr)
old, that clarify the anatomy and taxonomic status of KNM-ER 1470. KNM-ER 62000, 
a well-preserved face of a late juvenile hominin, closely resembles KNM-ER 1470
but is notably smaller. It preserves previously unknown morphology, including
moderately sized, mesiodistally long postcanine teeth. The nearly complete
mandible KNM-ER 60000 and mandibular fragment KNM-ER 62003 have a dental arcade
that is short anteroposteriorly and flat across the front, with small incisors;
these features are consistent with the arcade morphology of KNM-ER 1470 and
KNM-ER 62000. The new fossils confirm the presence of two contemporary species of
early Homo, in addition to Homo erectus, in the early Pleistocene of eastern
Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11322 
PMID: 22874966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):197-200. doi: 10.1038/nature11295.

Water balance of global aquifers revealed by groundwater footprint.

Gleeson T(1), Wada Y, Bierkens MF, van Beek LP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil Engineering, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3A 0C3, 
Canada. tom.gleeson@mcgill.ca

Groundwater is a life-sustaining resource that supplies water to billions of
people, plays a central part in irrigated agriculture and influences the health
of many ecosystems. Most assessments of global water resources have focused on
surface water, but unsustainable depletion of groundwater has recently been
documented on both regional and global scales. It remains unclear how the rate of
global groundwater depletion compares to the rate of natural renewal and the
supply needed to support ecosystems. Here we define the groundwater footprint
(the area required to sustain groundwater use and groundwater-dependent ecosystem
services) and show that humans are overexploiting groundwater in many large
aquifers that are critical to agriculture, especially in Asia and North America. 
We estimate that the size of the global groundwater footprint is currently about 
3.5 times the actual area of aquifers and that about 1.7 billion people live in
areas where groundwater resources and/or groundwater-dependent ecosystems are
under threat. That said, 80 per cent of aquifers have a groundwater footprint
that is less than their area, meaning that the net global value is driven by a
few heavily overexploited aquifers. The groundwater footprint is the first tool
suitable for consistently evaluating the use, renewal and ecosystem requirements 
of groundwater at an aquifer scale. It can be combined with the water footprint
and virtual water calculations, and be used to assess the potential for
increasing agricultural yields with renewable groundwaterref. The method could be
modified to evaluate other resources with renewal rates that are slow and
spatially heterogeneous, such as fisheries, forestry or soil.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11295 
PMID: 22874965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):193-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11278.

A new atmospherically relevant oxidant of sulphur dioxide.

Mauldin RL 3rd(1), Berndt T, Sipilä M, Paasonen P, Petäjä T, Kim S, Kurtén T,
Stratmann F, Kerminen VM, Kulmala M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Helsinki, Department of Physics, FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland.
roy.mauldin@helsinki.fi

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):164-5.

Atmospheric oxidation is a key phenomenon that connects atmospheric chemistry
with globally challenging environmental issues, such as climate change,
stratospheric ozone loss, acidification of soils and water, and health effects of
air quality. Ozone, the hydroxyl radical and the nitrate radical are generally
considered to be the dominant oxidants that initiate the removal of trace gases, 
including pollutants, from the atmosphere. Here we present atmospheric
observations from a boreal forest region in Finland, supported by laboratory
experiments and theoretical considerations, that allow us to identify another
compound, probably a stabilized Criegee intermediate (a carbonyl oxide with two
free-radical sites) or its derivative, which has a significant capacity to
oxidize sulphur dioxide and potentially other trace gases. This compound probably
enhances the reactivity of the atmosphere, particularly with regard to the
production of sulphuric acid, and consequently atmospheric aerosol formation. Our
findings suggest that this new atmospherically relevant oxidation route is
important relative to oxidation by the hydroxyl radical, at least at moderate
concentrations of that radical. We also find that the oxidation chemistry of this
compound seems to be tightly linked to the presence of alkenes of biogenic
origin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11278 
PMID: 22874964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):185-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11332.

Quantum teleportation and entanglement distribution over 100-kilometre free-space
channels.

Yin J(1), Ren JG, Lu H, Cao Y, Yong HL, Wu YP, Liu C, Liao SK, Zhou F, Jiang Y,
Cai XD, Xu P, Pan GS, Jia JJ, Huang YM, Yin H, Wang JY, Chen YA, Peng CZ, Pan JW.

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Branch, National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale and
Department of Modern Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Shanghai 201315, China.

Transferring an unknown quantum state over arbitrary distances is essential for
large-scale quantum communication and distributed quantum networks. It can be
achieved with the help of long-distance quantum teleportation and entanglement
distribution. The latter is also important for fundamental tests of the laws of
quantum mechanics. Although quantum teleportation and entanglement distribution
over moderate distances have been realized using optical fibre links, the huge
photon loss and decoherence in fibres necessitate the use of quantum repeaters
for larger distances. However, the practical realization of quantum repeaters
remains experimentally challenging. Free-space channels, first used for quantum
key distribution, offer a more promising approach because photon loss and
decoherence are almost negligible in the atmosphere. Furthermore, by using
satellites, ultra-long-distance quantum communication and tests of quantum
foundations could be achieved on a global scale. Previous experiments have
achieved free-space distribution of entangled photon pairs over distances of
600 metres (ref. 14) and 13 kilometres (ref. 15), and transfer of triggered
single photons over a 144-kilometre one-link free-space channel. Most recently,
following a modified scheme, free-space quantum teleportation over 16 kilometres 
was demonstrated with a single pair of entangled photons. Here we report quantum 
teleportation of independent qubits over a 97-kilometre one-link free-space
channel with multi-photon entanglement. An average fidelity of 80.4 ± 0.9 per
cent is achieved for six distinct states. Furthermore, we demonstrate
entanglement distribution over a two-link channel, in which the entangled photons
are separated by 101.8 kilometres. Violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt
inequality is observed without the locality loophole. Besides being of
fundamental interest, our results represent an important step towards a global
quantum network. Moreover, the high-frequency and high-accuracy acquiring,
pointing and tracking technique developed in our experiment can be directly used 
for future satellite-based quantum communication and large-scale tests of quantum
foundations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11332 
PMID: 22874963 


399. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):167-71. doi: 10.1038/nature11298.

Parity-time synthetic photonic lattices.

Regensburger A(1), Bersch C, Miri MA, Onishchukov G, Christodoulides DN, Peschel 
U.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Optics, Information and Photonics, University of
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Staudtstraße 7/B2, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):163-4.

The development of new artificial structures and materials is today one of the
major research challenges in optics. In most studies so far, the design of such
structures has been based on the judicious manipulation of their refractive index
properties. Recently, the prospect of simultaneously using gain and loss was
suggested as a new way of achieving optical behaviour that is at present
unattainable with standard arrangements. What facilitated these quests is the
recently developed notion of 'parity-time symmetry' in optical systems, which
allows a controlled interplay between gain and loss. Here we report the
experimental observation of light transport in large-scale temporal lattices that
are parity-time symmetric. In addition, we demonstrate that periodic structures
respecting this symmetry can act as unidirectional invisible media when operated 
near their exceptional points. Our experimental results represent a step in the
application of concepts from parity-time symmetry to a new generation of
multifunctional optical devices and networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11298 
PMID: 22874962 


400. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):189-92. doi: 10.1038/nature11293.

A III-V nanowire channel on silicon for high-performance vertical transistors.

Tomioka K(1), Yoshimura M, Fukui T.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science and Technology, Hokkaido University,
Sapporo 060-8628, Japan. tomioka@rciqe.hokudai.ac.jp

Silicon transistors are expected to have new gate architectures, channel
materials and switching mechanisms in ten years' time. The trend in transistor
scaling has already led to a change in gate structure from two dimensions to
three, used in fin field-effect transistors, to avoid problems inherent in
miniaturization such as high off-state leakage current and the short-channel
effect. At present, planar and fin architectures using III-V materials,
specifically InGaAs, are being explored as alternative fast channels on silicon
because of their high electron mobility and high-quality interface with gate
dielectrics. The idea of surrounding-gate transistors, in which the gate is
wrapped around a nanowire channel to provide the best possible electrostatic gate
control, using InGaAs channels on silicon, however, has been less well
investigated because of difficulties in integrating free-standing InGaAs
nanostructures on silicon. Here we report the position-controlled growth of
vertical InGaAs nanowires on silicon without any buffering technique and
demonstrate surrounding-gate transistors using InGaAs nanowires and
InGaAs/InP/InAlAs/InGaAs core-multishell nanowires as channels. Surrounding-gate 
transistors using core-multishell nanowire channels with a six-sided,
high-electron-mobility transistor structure greatly enhance the on-state current 
and transconductance while keeping good gate controllability. These devices
provide a route to making vertically oriented transistors for the next generation
of field-effect transistors and may be useful as building blocks for wireless
networks on silicon platforms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11293 
PMID: 22854778 


401. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11227.

A transitional snake from the Late Cretaceous period of North America.

Longrich NR(1), Bhullar BA, Gauthier JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520-8109, USA. nicholas.longrich@yale.edu

Snakes are the most diverse group of lizards, but their origins and early
evolution remain poorly understood owing to a lack of transitional forms. Several
major issues remain outstanding, such as whether snakes originated in a marine or
terrestrial environment and how their unique feeding mechanism evolved. The
Cretaceous Coniophis precedens was among the first Mesozoic snakes discovered,
but until now only an isolated vertebra has been described and it has therefore
been overlooked in discussions of snake evolution. Here we report on previously
undescribed material from this ancient snake, including the maxilla, dentary and 
additional vertebrae. Coniophis is not an anilioid as previously thought a
revised phylogenetic analysis of Ophidia shows that it instead represents the
most primitive known snake. Accordingly, its morphology and ecology are critical 
to understanding snake evolution. Coniophis occurs in a continental floodplain
environment, consistent with a terrestrial rather than a marine origin;
furthermore, its small size and reduced neural spines indicate fossorial habits, 
suggesting that snakes evolved from burrowing lizards. The skull is intermediate 
between that of lizards and snakes. Hooked teeth and an intramandibular joint
indicate that Coniophis fed on relatively large, soft-bodied prey. However, the
maxilla is firmly united with the skull, indicating an akinetic rostrum.
Coniophis therefore represents a transitional snake, combining a snake-like body 
and a lizard-like head. Subsequent to the evolution of a serpentine body and
carnivory, snakes evolved a highly specialized, kinetic skull, which was followed
by a major adaptive radiation in the Early Cretaceous period. This pattern
suggests that the kinetic skull was a key innovation that permitted the
diversification of snakes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11227 
PMID: 22832579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):236-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11271.

Protein activity regulation by conformational entropy.

Tzeng SR(1), Kalodimos CG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, Rutgers University, Piscataway,
New Jersey 08854, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):165-6.

How the interplay between protein structure and internal dynamics regulates
protein function is poorly understood. Often, ligand binding, post-translational 
modifications and mutations modify protein activity in a manner that is not
possible to rationalize solely on the basis of structural data. It is likely that
changes in the internal motions of proteins have a major role in regulating
protein activity, but the nature of their contributions remains elusive,
especially in quantitative terms. Here we show that changes in conformational
entropy can determine whether protein-ligand interactions will occur, even among 
protein complexes with identical binding interfaces. We have used NMR
spectroscopy to determine the changes in structure and internal dynamics that are
elicited by the binding of DNA to several variants of the catabolite activator
protein (CAP) that differentially populate the inactive and active DNA-binding
domain states. We found that the CAP variants have markedly different affinities 
for DNA, despite the CAP−DNA-binding interfaces being essentially identical in
the various complexes. Combined with thermodynamic data, the results show that
conformational entropy changes can inhibit the binding of CAP variants that are
structurally poised for optimal DNA binding or can stimulate the binding activity
of CAP variants that only transiently populate the DNA-binding-domain active
state. Collectively, the data show how changes in fast internal dynamics
(conformational entropy) and slow internal dynamics (energetically excited
conformational states) can regulate binding activity in a way that cannot be
predicted on the basis of the protein's ground-state structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11271 
PMID: 22801505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11241.

The banana (Musa acuminata) genome and the evolution of monocotyledonous plants.

D'Hont A(1), Denoeud F, Aury JM, Baurens FC, Carreel F, Garsmeur O, Noel B, Bocs 
S, Droc G, Rouard M, Da Silva C, Jabbari K, Cardi C, Poulain J, Souquet M,
Labadie K, Jourda C, Lengellé J, Rodier-Goud M, Alberti A, Bernard M, Correa M,
Ayyampalayam S, Mckain MR, Leebens-Mack J, Burgess D, Freeling M,
Mbéguié-A-Mbéguié D, Chabannes M, Wicker T, Panaud O, Barbosa J, Hribova E,
Heslop-Harrison P, Habas R, Rivallan R, Francois P, Poiron C, Kilian A, Burthia
D, Jenny C, Bakry F, Brown S, Guignon V, Kema G, Dita M, Waalwijk C, Joseph S,
Dievart A, Jaillon O, Leclercq J, Argout X, Lyons E, Almeida A, Jeridi M, Dolezel
J, Roux N, Risterucci AM, Weissenbach J, Ruiz M, Glaszmann JC, Quétier F,
Yahiaoui N, Wincker P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de coopération Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
Développement, UMR AGAP, F-34398 Montpellier, France. angelique.d’hont@cirad.fr

Bananas (Musa spp.), including dessert and cooking types, are giant perennial
monocotyledonous herbs of the order Zingiberales, a sister group to the
well-studied Poales, which include cereals. Bananas are vital for food security
in many tropical and subtropical countries and the most popular fruit in
industrialized countries. The Musa domestication process started some 7,000 years
ago in Southeast Asia. It involved hybridizations between diverse species and
subspecies, fostered by human migrations, and selection of diploid and triploid
seedless, parthenocarpic hybrids thereafter widely dispersed by vegetative
propagation. Half of the current production relies on somaclones derived from a
single triploid genotype (Cavendish). Pests and diseases have gradually become
adapted, representing an imminent danger for global banana production. Here we
describe the draft sequence of the 523-megabase genome of a Musa acuminata
doubled-haploid genotype, providing a crucial stepping-stone for genetic
improvement of banana. We detected three rounds of whole-genome duplications in
the Musa lineage, independently of those previously described in the Poales
lineage and the one we detected in the Arecales lineage. This first monocotyledon
high-continuity whole-genome sequence reported outside Poales represents an
essential bridge for comparative genome analysis in plants. As such, it clarifies
commelinid-monocotyledon phylogenetic relationships, reveals Poaceae-specific
features and has led to the discovery of conserved non-coding sequences predating
monocotyledon-eudicotyledon divergence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11241 
PMID: 22801500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):222-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11242.

HVEM signalling at mucosal barriers provides host defence against pathogenic
bacteria.

Shui JW(1), Larange A, Kim G, Vela JL, Zahner S, Cheroutre H, Kronenberg M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Immunology, La Jolla Institute for Allergy and
Immunology, 9420 Athena Circle, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

The herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM), a member of the tumour-necrosis factor
receptor family, has diverse functions, augmenting or inhibiting the immune
response. HVEM was recently reported as a colitis risk locus in patients, and in 
a mouse model of colitis we demonstrated an anti-inflammatory role for HVEM, but 
its mechanism of action in the mucosal immune system was unknown. Here we report 
an important role for epithelial HVEM in innate mucosal defence against
pathogenic bacteria. HVEM enhances immune responses by NF-κB-inducing
kinase-dependent Stat3 activation, which promotes the epithelial expression of
genes important for immunity. During intestinal Citrobacter rodentium infection, 
a mouse model for enteropathogenic Escherichia coli infection, Hvem−/− mice
showed decreased Stat3 activation, impaired responses in the colon, higher
bacterial burdens and increased mortality. We identified the immunoglobulin
superfamily molecule CD160 (refs 7 and 8), expressed predominantly by innate-like
intraepithelial lymphocytes, as the ligand engaging epithelial HVEM for host
protection. Likewise, in pulmonary Streptococcus pneumoniae infection, HVEM is
also required for host defence. Our results pinpoint HVEM as an important
orchestrator of mucosal immunity, integrating signals from innate lymphocytes to 
induce optimal epithelial Stat3 activation, which indicates that targeting HVEM
with agonists could improve host defence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11242 
PMCID: PMC3477500
PMID: 22801499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):172-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11270.

Deconstruction of a neural circuit for hunger.

Atasoy D(1), Betley JN, Su HH, Sternson SM.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 19700 Helix
Drive Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.

Hunger is a complex behavioural state that elicits intense food seeking and
consumption. These behaviours are rapidly recapitulated by activation of
starvation-sensitive AGRP neurons, which present an entry point for
reverse-engineering neural circuits for hunger. Here we mapped synaptic
interactions of AGRP neurons with multiple cell populations in mice and probed
the contribution of these distinct circuits to feeding behaviour using
optogenetic and pharmacogenetic techniques. An inhibitory circuit with
paraventricular hypothalamus (PVH) neurons substantially accounted for acute AGRP
neuron-evoked eating, whereas two other prominent circuits were insufficient.
Within the PVH, we found that AGRP neurons target and inhibit oxytocin neurons, a
small population that is selectively lost in Prader-Willi syndrome, a condition
involving insatiable hunger. By developing strategies for evaluating molecularly 
defined circuits, we show that AGRP neuron suppression of oxytocin neurons is
critical for evoked feeding. These experiments reveal a new neural circuit that
regulates hunger state and pathways associated with overeating disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11270 
PMCID: PMC3416931
PMID: 22801496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):226-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11240.

Programmed elimination of cells by caspase-independent cell extrusion in C.
elegans.

Denning DP(1), Hatch V, Horvitz HR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2012 Oct 9;22(19):R844-6.

The elimination of unnecessary or defective cells from metazoans occurs during
normal development and tissue homeostasis, as well as in response to infection or
cellular damage. Although many cells are removed through caspase-mediated
apoptosis followed by phagocytosis by engulfing cells, other mechanisms of cell
elimination occur, including the extrusion of cells from epithelia through a
poorly understood, possibly caspase-independent, process. Here we identify a
mechanism of cell extrusion that is caspase independent and that can eliminate a 
subset of the Caenorhabditis elegans cells programmed to die during embryonic
development. In wild-type animals, these cells die soon after their generation
through caspase-mediated apoptosis. However, in mutants lacking all four C.
elegans caspase genes, these cells are eliminated by being extruded from the
developing embryo into the extra-embryonic space of the egg. The shed cells show 
apoptosis-like cytological and morphological characteristics, indicating that
apoptosis can occur in the absence of caspases in C. elegans. We describe a
kinase pathway required for cell extrusion involving PAR-4, STRD-1 and
MOP-25.1/-25.2, the C. elegans homologues of the mammalian tumour-suppressor
kinase LKB1 and its binding partners STRADα and MO25α. The AMPK-related kinase
PIG-1, a possible target of the PAR-4–STRD-1–MOP-25 kinase complex, is also
required for cell shedding. PIG-1 promotes shed-cell detachment by preventing the
cell-surface expression of cell-adhesion molecules. Our findings reveal a
mechanism for apoptotic cell elimination that is fundamentally distinct from that
of canonical programmed cell death.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11240 
PMCID: PMC3416925
PMID: 22801495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):178-84. doi: 10.1038/nature11319.

Gut microbiota composition correlates with diet and health in the elderly.

Claesson MJ(1), Jeffery IB, Conde S, Power SE, O'Connor EM, Cusack S, Harris HM, 
Coakley M, Lakshminarayanan B, O'Sullivan O, Fitzgerald GF, Deane J, O'Connor M, 
Harnedy N, O'Connor K, O'Mahony D, van Sinderen D, Wallace M, Brennan L, Stanton 
C, Marchesi JR, Fitzgerald AP, Shanahan F, Hill C, Ross RP, O'Toole PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University College Cork, Ireland.

Alterations in intestinal microbiota composition are associated with several
chronic conditions, including obesity and inflammatory diseases. The microbiota
of older people displays greater inter-individual variation than that of younger 
adults. Here we show that the faecal microbiota composition from 178 elderly
subjects formed groups, correlating with residence location in the community,
day-hospital, rehabilitation or in long-term residential care. However,
clustering of subjects by diet separated them by the same residence location and 
microbiota groupings. The separation of microbiota composition significantly
correlated with measures of frailty, co-morbidity, nutritional status, markers of
inflammation and with metabolites in faecal water. The individual microbiota of
people in long-stay care was significantly less diverse than that of community
dwellers. Loss of community-associated microbiota correlated with increased
frailty. Collectively, the data support a relationship between diet, microbiota
and health status, and indicate a role for diet-driven microbiota alterations in 
varying rates of health decline upon ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11319 
PMID: 22797518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11238.

Atmospheric CO2 forces abrupt vegetation shifts locally, but not globally.

Higgins SI(1), Scheiter S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physische Geographie, Goethe Universität Frankfurt am Main, 60438
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. higgins@em.uni-frankfurt.de

It is possible that anthropogenic climate change will drive the Earth system into
a qualitatively different state. Although different types of uncertainty limit
our capacity to assess this risk, Earth system scientists are particularly
concerned about tipping elements, large-scale components of the Earth system that
can be switched into qualitatively different states by small perturbations.
Despite growing evidence that tipping elements exist in the climate system,
whether large-scale vegetation systems can tip into alternative states is poorly 
understood. Here we show that tropical grassland, savanna and forest ecosystems, 
areas large enough to have powerful impacts on the Earth system, are likely to
shift to alternative states. Specifically, we show that increasing atmospheric
CO2 concentration will force transitions to vegetation states characterized by
higher biomass and/or woody-plant dominance. The timing of these critical
transitions varies as a result of between-site variance in the rate of
temperature increase, as well as a dependence on stochastic variation in fire
severity and rainfall. We further show that the locations of bistable vegetation 
zones (zones where alternative vegetation states can exist) will shift as climate
changes. We conclude that even though large-scale directional regime shifts in
terrestrial ecosystems are likely, asynchrony in the timing of these shifts may
serve to dampen, but not nullify, the shock that these changes may represent to
the Earth system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11238 
PMID: 22763447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):231-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11179.

Site-specific DICER and DROSHA RNA products control the DNA-damage response.

Francia S(1), Michelini F, Saxena A, Tang D, de Hoon M, Anelli V, Mione M,
Carninci P, d'Adda di Fagagna F.

Author information: 
(1)IFOM Foundation - FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology Foundation, Via
Adamello 16, 20139 Milan, Italy.

Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are involved in an increasingly recognized number of
cellular events. Some ncRNAs are processed by DICER and DROSHA RNases to give
rise to small double-stranded RNAs involved in RNA interference (RNAi). The
DNA-damage response (DDR) is a signalling pathway that originates from a DNA
lesion and arrests cell proliferation3. So far, DICER and DROSHA RNA products
have not been reported to control DDR activation. Here we show, in human, mouse
and zebrafish, that DICER and DROSHA, but not downstream elements of the RNAi
pathway, are necessary to activate the DDR upon exogenous DNA damage and
oncogene-induced genotoxic stress, as studied by DDR foci formation and by
checkpoint assays. DDR foci are sensitive to RNase A treatment, and DICER- and
DROSHA-dependent RNA products are required to restore DDR foci in RNase-A-treated
cells. Through RNA deep sequencing and the study of DDR activation at a single
inducible DNA double-strand break, we demonstrate that DDR foci formation
requires site-specific DICER- and DROSHA-dependent small RNAs, named DDRNAs,
which act in a MRE11–RAD50–NBS1-complex-dependent manner (MRE11 also known as
MRE11A; NBS1 also known as NBN). DDRNAs, either chemically synthesized or in
vitro generated by DICER cleavage, are sufficient to restore the DDR in
RNase-A-treated cells, also in the absence of other cellular RNAs. Our results
describe an unanticipated direct role of a novel class of ncRNAs in the control
of DDR activation at sites of DNA damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11179 
PMCID: PMC3442236
PMID: 22722852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 2012 Aug 9;488(7410):218-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11239.

Human dorsal anterior cingulate cortex neurons mediate ongoing behavioural
adaptation.

Sheth SA(1), Mian MK, Patel SR, Asaad WF, Williams ZM, Dougherty DD, Bush G,
Eskandar EN.

Author information: 
(1)Nayef Al-Rodhan Laboratories, Department of Neurosurgery, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Aug;13(8):518.

The ability to optimize behavioural performance when confronted with continuously
evolving environmental demands is a key element of human cognition. The dorsal
anterior cingulate cortex (dACC), which lies on the medial surface of the frontal
lobes, is important in regulating cognitive control. Hypotheses about its
function include guiding reward-based decision making, monitoring for conflict
between competing responses and predicting task difficulty. Precise mechanisms of
dACC function remain unknown, however, because of the limited number of human
neurophysiological studies. Here we use functional imaging and human
single-neuron recordings to show that the firing of individual dACC neurons
encodes current and recent cognitive load. We demonstrate that the modulation of 
current dACC activity by previous activity produces a behavioural adaptation that
accelerates reactions to cues of similar difficulty to previous ones, and retards
reactions to cues of different difficulty. Furthermore, this conflict adaptation,
or Gratton effect, is abolished after surgically targeted ablation of the dACC.
Our results demonstrate that the dACC provides a continuously updated prediction 
of expected cognitive demand to optimize future behavioural responses. In
situations with stable cognitive demands, this signal promotes efficiency by
hastening responses, but in situations with changing demands it engenders
accuracy by delaying responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11239 
PMCID: PMC3416924
PMID: 22722841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):111-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11362.

Targeting nuclear RNA for in vivo correction of myotonic dystrophy.

Wheeler TM(1), Leger AJ, Pandey SK, MacLeod AR, Nakamori M, Cheng SH, Wentworth
BM, Bennett CF, Thornton CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, 601 Elmwood Avenue,
Rochester, New York 14642, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):36-8.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Sep;11(9):674.

Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) hold promise for gene-specific knockdown in
diseases that involve RNA or protein gain-of-function effects. In the hereditary 
degenerative disease myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1), transcripts from the mutant
allele contain an expanded CUG repeat and are retained in the nucleus. The mutant
RNA exerts a toxic gain-of-function effect, making it an appropriate target for
therapeutic ASOs. However, despite improvements in ASO chemistry and design,
systemic use of ASOs is limited because uptake in many tissues, including
skeletal and cardiac muscle, is not sufficient to silence target messenger RNAs. 
Here we show that nuclear-retained transcripts containing expanded CUG (CUG(exp))
repeats are unusually sensitive to antisense silencing. In a transgenic mouse
model of DM1, systemic administration of ASOs caused a rapid knockdown of
CUG(exp) RNA in skeletal muscle, correcting the physiological, histopathologic
and transcriptomic features of the disease. The effect was sustained for up to 1 
year after treatment was discontinued. Systemically administered ASOs were also
effective for muscle knockdown of Malat1, a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) that is 
retained in the nucleus. These results provide a general strategy to correct RNA 
gain-of-function effects and to modulate the expression of expanded repeats,
lncRNAs and other transcripts with prolonged nuclear residence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11362 
PMCID: PMC4221572
PMID: 22859208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):91-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11336.

Revealing structure and assembly cues for Arabidopsis root-inhabiting bacterial
microbiota.

Bulgarelli D(1), Rott M, Schlaeppi K, Ver Loren van Themaat E, Ahmadinejad N,
Assenza F, Rauf P, Huettel B, Reinhardt R, Schmelzer E, Peplies J, Gloeckner FO, 
Amann R, Eickhorst T, Schulze-Lefert P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Microbe Interactions, Max Planck Institute for Plant
Breeding Research, 50829 Cologne, Germany.

The plant root defines the interface between a multicellular eukaryote and soil, 
one of the richest microbial ecosystems on Earth. Notably, soil bacteria are able
to multiply inside roots as benign endophytes and modulate plant growth and
development, with implications ranging from enhanced crop productivity to
phytoremediation. Endophytic colonization represents an apparent paradox of plant
innate immunity because plant cells can detect an array of microbe-associated
molecular patterns (also known as MAMPs) to initiate immune responses to
terminate microbial multiplication. Several studies attempted to describe the
structure of bacterial root endophytes; however, different sampling protocols and
low-resolution profiling methods make it difficult to infer general principles.
Here we describe methodology to characterize and compare soil- and
root-inhabiting bacterial communities, which reveals not only a function for
metabolically active plant cells but also for inert cell-wall features in the
selection of soil bacteria for host colonization. We show that the roots of
Arabidopsis thaliana, grown in different natural soils under controlled
environmental conditions, are preferentially colonized by Proteobacteria,
Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria, and each bacterial phylum is represented by a
dominating class or family. Soil type defines the composition of root-inhabiting 
bacterial communities and host genotype determines their ribotype profiles to a
limited extent. The identification of soil-type-specific members within the
root-inhabiting assemblies supports our conclusion that these represent
soil-derived root endophytes. Surprisingly, plant cell-wall features of other
tested plant species seem to provide a sufficient cue for the assembly of
approximately 40% of the Arabidopsis bacterial root-inhabiting microbiota, with a
bias for Betaproteobacteria. Thus, this root sub-community may not be
Arabidopsis-specific but saprophytic bacteria that would naturally be found on
any plant root or plant debris in the tested soils. By contrast, colonization of 
Arabidopsis roots by members of the Actinobacteria depends on other cues from
metabolically active host cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11336 
PMID: 22859207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature11237.

Defining the core Arabidopsis thaliana root microbiome.

Lundberg DS(#)(1)(2), Lebeis SL(#)(1), Paredes SH(#)(1), Yourstone S(#)(1)(3),
Gehring J(1), Malfatti S(4), Tremblay J(4), Engelbrektson A(4), Kunin V(4), Del
Rio TG(4), Edgar RC(5), Eickhorst T(6), Ley RE(7), Hugenholtz P(4)(8), Tringe
SG(4), Dangl JL(1)(2)(9)(10)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599, USA.
(2)Curriculum in Genetics and Molecular Biology, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(3)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(4)DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, California 94598, USA.
(5)Taxon Biosciences, Inc., Tiburon, California 94920, USA.
(6)Soil Science, Faculty of Biology and Chemistry, University of Bremen, Bremen
28359, Germany.
(7)Department of Microbiology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(8)Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, School of Chemistry and Molecular
Biosciences & Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland,
Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(9)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(10)Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(11)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina 27599, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Land plants associate with a root microbiota distinct from the complex microbial 
community present in surrounding soil. The microbiota colonizing the rhizosphere 
(immediately surrounding the root) and the endophytic compartment (within the
root) contribute to plant growth, productivity, carbon sequestration and
phytoremediation. Colonization of the root occurs despite a sophisticated plant
immune system, suggesting finely tuned discrimination of mutualists and
commensals from pathogens. Genetic principles governing the derivation of
host-specific endophyte communities from soil communities are poorly understood. 
Here we report the pyrosequencing of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene of more
than 600 Arabidopsis thaliana plants to test the hypotheses that the root
rhizosphere and endophytic compartment microbiota of plants grown under
controlled conditions in natural soils are sufficiently dependent on the host to 
remain consistent across different soil types and developmental stages, and
sufficiently dependent on host genotype to vary between inbred Arabidopsis
accessions. We describe different bacterial communities in two geochemically
distinct bulk soils and in rhizosphere and endophytic compartments prepared from 
roots grown in these soils. The communities in each compartment are strongly
influenced by soil type. Endophytic compartments from both soils feature
overlapping, low-complexity communities that are markedly enriched in
Actinobacteria and specific families from other phyla, notably Proteobacteria.
Some bacteria vary quantitatively between plants of different developmental stage
and genotype. Our rigorous definition of an endophytic compartment microbiome
should facilitate controlled dissection of plant-microbe interactions derived
from complex soil communities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11237 
PMCID: PMC4074413
PMID: 22859206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11281.

A complete insect from the Late Devonian period.

Garrouste R(1), Clément G, Nel P, Engel MS, Grandcolas P, D'Haese C, Lagebro L,
Denayer J, Gueriau P, Lafaite P, Olive S, Prestianni C, Nel A.

Author information: 
(1)UMR CNRS 7205, CP 50, Entomologie, Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle, 45
rue Buffon, F-75005 Paris, France. garroust@mnhn.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):34-5.
    Nature. 2013 Feb 21;494(7437):E3-4; discussion E4-5.

After terrestrialization, the diversification of arthropods and vertebrates is
thought to have occurred in two distinct phases, the first between the Silurian
and the Frasnian stages (Late Devonian period) (425-385 million years (Myr) ago),
and the second characterized by the emergence of numerous new major taxa, during 
the Late Carboniferous period (after 345 Myr ago). These two diversification
periods bracket the depauperate vertebrate Romer's gap (360-345 Myr ago) and
arthropod gap (385-325 Myr ago), which could be due to preservational artefact.
Although a recent molecular dating has given an age of 390 Myr for the
Holometabola, the record of hexapods during the Early-Middle Devonian
(411.5-391 Myr ago, Pragian to Givetian stages) is exceptionally sparse and based
on fragmentary remains, which hinders the timing of this diversification. Indeed,
although Devonian Archaeognatha are problematic, the Pragian of Scotland has
given some Collembola and the incomplete insect Rhyniognatha, with its diagnostic
dicondylic, metapterygotan mandibles. The oldest, definitively winged insects are
from the Serpukhovian stage (latest Early Carboniferous period). Here we report
the first complete Late Devonian insect, which was probably a terrestrial
species. Its 'orthopteroid' mandibles are of an omnivorous type, clearly not
modified for a solely carnivorous diet. This discovery narrows the 45-Myr gap in 
the fossil record of Hexapoda, and demonstrates further a first Devonian phase of
diversification for the Hexapoda, as in vertebrates, and suggests that the
Pterygota diversified before and during Romer's gap.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11281 
PMID: 22859205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11300.

Persistent near-tropical warmth on the Antarctic continent during the early
Eocene epoch.

Pross J(1), Contreras L, Bijl PK, Greenwood DR, Bohaty SM, Schouten S, Bendle JA,
Röhl U, Tauxe L, Raine JI, Huck CE, van de Flierdt T, Jamieson SS, Stickley CE,
van de Schootbrugge B, Escutia C, Brinkhuis H; Integrated Ocean Drilling Program 
Expedition 318 Scientists.

Collaborators: Brinkhuis H, Dotti CE, Klaus A, Fehr A, Williams T, Bendle JA,
Bijl PK, Bohaty SM, Carr SA, Dunbar RB, Gonzàlez JJ, Hayden TG, Iwai M,
Jimenez-Espejo FJ, Katsuki K, Kong GS, McKay RM, Nakai M, Olney MP, Passchier S, 
Pekar SF, Pross J, Riesselman CR, Röhl U, Sakai T, Shrivastava PK, Stickley CE,
Sugisaki S, Tauxe L, Tuo S, van de Flierdt T, Welsh K, Yamane M.

Author information: 
(1)Paleoenvironmental Dynamics Group, Institute of Geosciences, Goethe University
Frankfurt, Altenhöferallee 1, 60438 Frankfurt, Germany.
joerg.pross@em.uni-frankfurt.de

The warmest global climates of the past 65 million years occurred during the
early Eocene epoch (about 55 to 48 million years ago), when the Equator-to-pole
temperature gradients were much smaller than today and atmospheric carbon dioxide
levels were in excess of one thousand parts per million by volume. Recently the
early Eocene has received considerable interest because it may provide insight
into the response of Earth's climate and biosphere to the high atmospheric carbon
dioxide levels that are expected in the near future as a consequence of unabated 
anthropogenic carbon emissions. Climatic conditions of the early Eocene
'greenhouse world', however, are poorly constrained in critical regions,
particularly Antarctica. Here we present a well-dated record of early Eocene
climate on Antarctica from an ocean sediment core recovered off the Wilkes Land
coast of East Antarctica. The information from biotic climate proxies (pollen and
spores) and independent organic geochemical climate proxies (indices based on
branched tetraether lipids) yields quantitative, seasonal temperature
reconstructions for the early Eocene greenhouse world on Antarctica. We show that
the climate in lowland settings along the Wilkes Land coast (at a palaeolatitude 
of about 70° south) supported the growth of highly diverse, near-tropical forests
characterized by mesothermal to megathermal floral elements including palms and
Bombacoideae. Notably, winters were extremely mild (warmer than 10 °C) and
essentially frost-free despite polar darkness, which provides a critical new
constraint for the validation of climate models and for understanding the
response of high-latitude terrestrial ecosystems to increased carbon dioxide
forcing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11300 
PMID: 22859204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):70-2. doi: 10.1038/nature11299.

Increase in observed net carbon dioxide uptake by land and oceans during the past
50 years.

Ballantyne AP(1), Alden CB, Miller JB, Tans PP, White JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
apballantyne@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):35-6.

One of the greatest sources of uncertainty for future climate predictions is the 
response of the global carbon cycle to climate change. Although approximately
one-half of total CO(2) emissions is at present taken up by combined land and
ocean carbon reservoirs, models predict a decline in future carbon uptake by
these reservoirs, resulting in a positive carbon-climate feedback. Several recent
studies suggest that rates of carbon uptake by the land and ocean have remained
constant or declined in recent decades. Other work, however, has called into
question the reported decline. Here we use global-scale atmospheric CO(2)
measurements, CO(2) emission inventories and their full range of uncertainties to
calculate changes in global CO(2) sources and sinks during the past 50 years. Our
mass balance analysis shows that net global carbon uptake has increased
significantly by about 0.05 billion tonnes of carbon per year and that global
carbon uptake doubled, from 2.4 ± 0.8 to 5.0 ± 0.9 billion tonnes per year,
between 1960 and 2010. Therefore, it is very unlikely that both land and ocean
carbon sinks have decreased on a global scale. Since 1959, approximately 350
billion tonnes of carbon have been emitted by humans to the atmosphere, of which 
about 55 per cent has moved into the land and oceans. Thus, identifying the
mechanisms and locations responsible for increasing global carbon uptake remains 
a critical challenge in constraining the modern global carbon budget and
predicting future carbon-climate interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11299 
PMID: 22859203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):65-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11297.

A Newtonian approach to extraordinarily strong negative refraction.

Yoon H(1), Yeung KY, Umansky V, Ham D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Metamaterials with negative refractive indices can manipulate electromagnetic
waves in unusual ways, and can be used to achieve, for example,
sub-diffraction-limit focusing, the bending of light in the 'wrong' direction,
and reversed Doppler and Cerenkov effects. These counterintuitive and
technologically useful behaviours have spurred considerable efforts to synthesize
a broad array of negative-index metamaterials with engineered electric, magnetic 
or optical properties. Here we demonstrate another route to negative refraction
by exploiting the inertia of electrons in semiconductor two-dimensional electron 
gases, collectively accelerated by electromagnetic waves according to Newton's
second law of motion, where this acceleration effect manifests as kinetic
inductance. Using kinetic inductance to attain negative refraction was
theoretically proposed for three-dimensional metallic nanoparticles and seen
experimentally with surface plasmons on the surface of a three-dimensional metal.
The two-dimensional electron gas that we use at cryogenic temperatures has a
larger kinetic inductance than three-dimensional metals, leading to
extraordinarily strong negative refraction at gigahertz frequencies, with an
index as large as -700. This pronounced negative refractive index and the
corresponding reduction in the effective wavelength opens a path to
miniaturization in the science and technology of negative refraction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11297 
PMID: 22859202 


418. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):61-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11265.

Quantum phase transition in a resonant level coupled to interacting leads.

Mebrahtu HT(1), Borzenets IV, Liu DE, Zheng H, Bomze YV, Smirnov AI, Baranger HU,
Finkelstein G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

A Luttinger liquid is an interacting one-dimensional electronic system, quite
distinct from the 'conventional' Fermi liquids formed by interacting electrons in
two and three dimensions. Some of the most striking properties of Luttinger
liquids are revealed in the process of electron tunnelling. For example, as a
function of the applied bias voltage or temperature, the tunnelling current
exhibits a non-trivial power-law suppression. (There is no such suppression in a 
conventional Fermi liquid.) Here, using a carbon nanotube connected to resistive 
leads, we create a system that emulates tunnelling in a Luttinger liquid, by
controlling the interaction of the tunnelling electron with its environment. We
further replace a single tunnelling barrier with a double-barrier, resonant-level
structure and investigate resonant tunnelling between Luttinger liquids. At low
temperatures, we observe perfect transparency of the resonant level embedded in
the interacting environment, and the width of the resonance tends to zero. We
argue that this behaviour results from many-body physics of interacting
electrons, and signals the presence of a quantum phase transition. Given that
many parameters, including the interaction strength, can be precisely controlled 
in our samples, this is an attractive model system for studying quantum critical 
phenomena in general, with wide-reaching implications for understanding quantum
phase transitions in more complex systems, such as cold atoms and strongly
correlated bulk materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11265 
PMID: 22859201 


419. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):57-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11361.

Quantum nonlinear optics with single photons enabled by strongly interacting
atoms.

Peyronel T(1), Firstenberg O, Liang QY, Hofferberth S, Gorshkov AV, Pohl T, Lukin
MD, Vuletić V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Research Laboratory of Electronics, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):39-40.

The realization of strong nonlinear interactions between individual light quanta 
(photons) is a long-standing goal in optical science and engineering, being of
both fundamental and technological significance. In conventional optical
materials, the nonlinearity at light powers corresponding to single photons is
negligibly weak. Here we demonstrate a medium that is nonlinear at the level of
individual quanta, exhibiting strong absorption of photon pairs while remaining
transparent to single photons. The quantum nonlinearity is obtained by coherently
coupling slowly propagating photons to strongly interacting atomic Rydberg states
in a cold, dense atomic gas. Our approach paves the way for quantum-by-quantum
control of light fields, including single-photon switching, all-optical
deterministic quantum logic and the realization of strongly correlated many-body 
states of light.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11361 
PMID: 22832584 


420. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):100-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11284.

Dissecting the genomic complexity underlying medulloblastoma.

Jones DT(1), Jäger N, Kool M, Zichner T, Hutter B, Sultan M, Cho YJ, Pugh TJ,
Hovestadt V, Stütz AM, Rausch T, Warnatz HJ, Ryzhova M, Bender S, Sturm D, Pleier
S, Cin H, Pfaff E, Sieber L, Wittmann A, Remke M, Witt H, Hutter S, Tzaridis T,
Weischenfeldt J, Raeder B, Avci M, Amstislavskiy V, Zapatka M, Weber UD, Wang Q, 
Lasitschka B, Bartholomae CC, Schmidt M, von Kalle C, Ast V, Lawerenz C, Eils J, 
Kabbe R, Benes V, van Sluis P, Koster J, Volckmann R, Shih D, Betts MJ, Russell
RB, Coco S, Tonini GP, Schüller U, Hans V, Graf N, Kim YJ, Monoranu C, Roggendorf
W, Unterberg A, Herold-Mende C, Milde T, Kulozik AE, von Deimling A, Witt O,
Maass E, Rössler J, Ebinger M, Schuhmann MU, Frühwald MC, Hasselblatt M, Jabado
N, Rutkowski S, von Bueren AO, Williamson D, Clifford SC, McCabe MG, Collins VP, 
Wolf S, Wiemann S, Lehrach H, Brors B, Scheurlen W, Felsberg J, Reifenberger G,
Northcott PA, Taylor MD, Meyerson M, Pomeroy SL, Yaspo ML, Korbel JO, Korshunov
A, Eils R, Pfister SM, Lichter P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.

Medulloblastoma is an aggressively growing tumour, arising in the cerebellum or
medulla/brain stem. It is the most common malignant brain tumour in children, and
shows tremendous biological and clinical heterogeneity. Despite recent treatment 
advances, approximately 40% of children experience tumour recurrence, and 30%
will die from their disease. Those who survive often have a significantly reduced
quality of life. Four tumour subgroups with distinct clinical, biological and
genetic profiles are currently identified. WNT tumours, showing activated
wingless pathway signalling, carry a favourable prognosis under current treatment
regimens. SHH tumours show hedgehog pathway activation, and have an intermediate 
prognosis. Group 3 and 4 tumours are molecularly less well characterized, and
also present the greatest clinical challenges. The full repertoire of genetic
events driving this distinction, however, remains unclear. Here we describe an
integrative deep-sequencing analysis of 125 tumour-normal pairs, conducted as
part of the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) PedBrain Tumor Project.
Tetraploidy was identified as a frequent early event in Group 3 and 4 tumours,
and a positive correlation between patient age and mutation rate was observed.
Several recurrent mutations were identified, both in known
medulloblastoma-related genes (CTNNB1, PTCH1, MLL2, SMARCA4) and in genes not
previously linked to this tumour (DDX3X, CTDNEP1, KDM6A, TBR1), often in
subgroup-specific patterns. RNA sequencing confirmed these alterations, and
revealed the expression of what are, to our knowledge, the first medulloblastoma 
fusion genes identified. Chromatin modifiers were frequently altered across all
subgroups. These findings enhance our understanding of the genomic complexity and
heterogeneity underlying medulloblastoma, and provide several potential targets
for new therapeutics, especially for Group 3 and 4 patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11284 
PMCID: PMC3662966
PMID: 22832583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):49-56. doi: 10.1038/nature11327.

Subgroup-specific structural variation across 1,000 medulloblastoma genomes.

Northcott PA(1), Shih DJ, Peacock J, Garzia L, Morrissy AS, Zichner T, Stütz AM, 
Korshunov A, Reimand J, Schumacher SE, Beroukhim R, Ellison DW, Marshall CR,
Lionel AC, Mack S, Dubuc A, Yao Y, Ramaswamy V, Luu B, Rolider A, Cavalli FM,
Wang X, Remke M, Wu X, Chiu RY, Chu A, Chuah E, Corbett RD, Hoad GR, Jackman SD, 
Li Y, Lo A, Mungall KL, Nip KM, Qian JQ, Raymond AG, Thiessen NT, Varhol RJ,
Birol I, Moore RA, Mungall AJ, Holt R, Kawauchi D, Roussel MF, Kool M, Jones DT, 
Witt H, Fernandez-L A, Kenney AM, Wechsler-Reya RJ, Dirks P, Aviv T, Grajkowska
WA, Perek-Polnik M, Haberler CC, Delattre O, Reynaud SS, Doz FF, Pernet-Fattet
SS, Cho BK, Kim SK, Wang KC, Scheurlen W, Eberhart CG, Fèvre-Montange M, Jouvet
A, Pollack IF, Fan X, Muraszko KM, Gillespie GY, Di Rocco C, Massimi L, Michiels 
EM, Kloosterhof NK, French PJ, Kros JM, Olson JM, Ellenbogen RG, Zitterbart K,
Kren L, Thompson RC, Cooper MK, Lach B, McLendon RE, Bigner DD, Fontebasso A,
Albrecht S, Jabado N, Lindsey JC, Bailey S, Gupta N, Weiss WA, Bognár L, Klekner 
A, Van Meter TE, Kumabe T, Tominaga T, Elbabaa SK, Leonard JR, Rubin JB, Liau LM,
Van Meir EG, Fouladi M, Nakamura H, Cinalli G, Garami M, Hauser P, Saad AG,
Iolascon A, Jung S, Carlotti CG, Vibhakar R, Ra YS, Robinson S, Zollo M, Faria
CC, Chan JA, Levy ML, Sorensen PH, Meyerson M, Pomeroy SL, Cho YJ, Bader GD,
Tabori U, Hawkins CE, Bouffet E, Scherer SW, Rutka JT, Malkin D, Clifford SC,
Jones SJ, Korbel JO, Pfister SM, Marra MA, Taylor MD.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, The Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada.

Medulloblastoma, the most common malignant paediatric brain tumour, is currently 
treated with nonspecific cytotoxic therapies including surgery, whole-brain
radiation, and aggressive chemotherapy. As medulloblastoma exhibits marked
intertumoural heterogeneity, with at least four distinct molecular variants,
previous attempts to identify targets for therapy have been underpowered because 
of small samples sizes. Here we report somatic copy number aberrations (SCNAs) in
1,087 unique medulloblastomas. SCNAs are common in medulloblastoma, and are
predominantly subgroup-enriched. The most common region of focal copy number gain
is a tandem duplication of SNCAIP, a gene associated with Parkinson's disease,
which is exquisitely restricted to Group 4α. Recurrent translocations of PVT1,
including PVT1-MYC and PVT1-NDRG1, that arise through chromothripsis are
restricted to Group 3. Numerous targetable SCNAs, including recurrent events
targeting TGF-β signalling in Group 3, and NF-κB signalling in Group 4, suggest
future avenues for rational, targeted therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11327 
PMCID: PMC3683624
PMID: 22832581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):106-10. doi: 10.1038/nature11329.

Medulloblastoma exome sequencing uncovers subtype-specific somatic mutations.

Pugh TJ(1), Weeraratne SD, Archer TC, Pomeranz Krummel DA, Auclair D, Bochicchio 
J, Carneiro MO, Carter SL, Cibulskis K, Erlich RL, Greulich H, Lawrence MS,
Lennon NJ, McKenna A, Meldrim J, Ramos AH, Ross MG, Russ C, Shefler E, Sivachenko
A, Sogoloff B, Stojanov P, Tamayo P, Mesirov JP, Amani V, Teider N, Sengupta S,
Francois JP, Northcott PA, Taylor MD, Yu F, Crabtree GR, Kautzman AG, Gabriel SB,
Getz G, Jäger N, Jones DT, Lichter P, Pfister SM, Roberts TM, Meyerson M, Pomeroy
SL, Cho YJ.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Medulloblastomas are the most common malignant brain tumours in children.
Identifying and understanding the genetic events that drive these tumours is
critical for the development of more effective diagnostic, prognostic and
therapeutic strategies. Recently, our group and others described distinct
molecular subtypes of medulloblastoma on the basis of transcriptional and copy
number profiles. Here we use whole-exome hybrid capture and deep sequencing to
identify somatic mutations across the coding regions of 92 primary
medulloblastoma/normal pairs. Overall, medulloblastomas have low mutation rates
consistent with other paediatric tumours, with a median of 0.35 non-silent
mutations per megabase. We identified twelve genes mutated at statistically
significant frequencies, including previously known mutated genes in
medulloblastoma such as CTNNB1, PTCH1, MLL2, SMARCA4 and TP53. Recurrent somatic 
mutations were newly identified in an RNA helicase gene, DDX3X, often concurrent 
with CTNNB1 mutations, and in the nuclear co-repressor (N-CoR) complex genes
GPS2, BCOR and LDB1. We show that mutant DDX3X potentiates transactivation of a
TCF promoter and enhances cell viability in combination with mutant, but not
wild-type, β-catenin. Together, our study reveals the alteration of WNT,
hedgehog, histone methyltransferase and now N-CoR pathways across
medulloblastomas and within specific subtypes of this disease, and nominates the 
RNA helicase DDX3X as a component of pathogenic β-catenin signalling in
medulloblastoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11329 
PMCID: PMC3413789
PMID: 22820256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11283.

A mutation in APP protects against Alzheimer's disease and age-related cognitive 
decline.

Jonsson T(1), Atwal JK, Steinberg S, Snaedal J, Jonsson PV, Bjornsson S,
Stefansson H, Sulem P, Gudbjartsson D, Maloney J, Hoyte K, Gustafson A, Liu Y, Lu
Y, Bhangale T, Graham RR, Huttenlocher J, Bjornsdottir G, Andreassen OA, Jönsson 
EG, Palotie A, Behrens TW, Magnusson OT, Kong A, Thorsteinsdottir U, Watts RJ,
Stefansson K.

Author information: 
(1)deCODE genetics, Sturlugata 8, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Sep;13(9):601.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):38-9.

The prevalence of dementia in the Western world in people over the age of 60 has 
been estimated to be greater than 5%, about two-thirds of which are due to
Alzheimer's disease. The age-specific prevalence of Alzheimer's disease nearly
doubles every 5 years after age 65, leading to a prevalence of greater than 25%
in those over the age of 90 (ref. 3). Here, to search for low-frequency variants 
in the amyloid-β precursor protein (APP) gene with a significant effect on the
risk of Alzheimer's disease, we studied coding variants in APP in a set of
whole-genome sequence data from 1,795 Icelanders. We found a coding mutation
(A673T) in the APP gene that protects against Alzheimer's disease and cognitive
decline in the elderly without Alzheimer's disease. This substitution is adjacent
to the aspartyl protease β-site in APP, and results in an approximately 40%
reduction in the formation of amyloidogenic peptides in vitro. The strong
protective effect of the A673T substitution against Alzheimer's disease provides 
proof of principle for the hypothesis that reducing the β-cleavage of APP may
protect against the disease. Furthermore, as the A673T allele also protects
against cognitive decline in the elderly without Alzheimer's disease, the two may
be mediated through the same or similar mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11283 
PMID: 22801501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature11243.

A map of the cis-regulatory sequences in the mouse genome.

Shen Y(1), Yue F, McCleary DF, Ye Z, Edsall L, Kuan S, Wagner U, Dixon J, Lee L, 
Lobanenkov VV, Ren B.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 
92093-0653, USA.

The laboratory mouse is the most widely used mammalian model organism in
biomedical research. The 2.6 × 10(9) bases of the mouse genome possess a high
degree of conservation with the human genome, so a thorough annotation of the
mouse genome will be of significant value to understanding the function of the
human genome. So far, most of the functional sequences in the mouse genome have
yet to be found, and the cis-regulatory sequences in particular are still poorly 
annotated. Comparative genomics has been a powerful tool for the discovery of
these sequences, but on its own it cannot resolve their temporal and spatial
functions. Recently, ChIP-Seq has been developed to identify cis-regulatory
elements in the genomes of several organisms including humans, Drosophila
melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we apply the same experimental
approach to a diverse set of 19 tissues and cell types in the mouse to produce a 
map of nearly 300,000 murine cis-regulatory sequences. The annotated sequences
add up to 11% of the mouse genome, and include more than 70% of conserved
non-coding sequences. We define tissue-specific enhancers and identify potential 
transcription factors regulating gene expression in each tissue or cell type.
Finally, we show that much of the mouse genome is organized into domains of
coordinately regulated enhancers and promoters. Our results provide a resource
for the annotation of functional elements in the mammalian genome and for the
study of mechanisms regulating tissue-specific gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11243 
PMCID: PMC4041622
PMID: 22763441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11226.

Universal species-area and endemics-area relationships at continental scales.

Storch D(1), Keil P, Jetz W.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Theoretical Study, Charles University, Praha, Czech Republic.
storch@cts.cuni.cz

Despite the broad conceptual and applied relevance of how the number of species
or endemics changes with area (the species-area and endemics-area relationships
(SAR and EAR)), our understanding of universality and pervasiveness of these
patterns across taxa and regions has remained limited. The SAR has traditionally 
been approximated by a power law, but recent theories predict a triphasic SAR in 
logarithmic space, characterized by steeper increases in species richness at both
small and large spatial scales. Here we uncover such universally upward
accelerating SARs for amphibians, birds and mammals across the world’s major
landmasses. Although apparently taxon-specific and continent-specific, all curves
collapse into one universal function after the area is rescaled by using the mean
range sizes of taxa within continents. In addition, all EARs approximately follow
a power law with a slope close to 1, indicating that for most spatial scales
there is roughly proportional species extinction with area loss. These patterns
can be predicted by a simulation model based on the random placement of
contiguous ranges within a domain. The universality of SARs and EARs after
rescaling implies that both total and endemic species richness within an area,
and also their rate of change with area, can be estimated by using only the
knowledge of mean geographic range size in the region and mean species richness
at one spatial scale.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11226 
PMID: 22722856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 2012 Aug 2;488(7409):43-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11213.

Novel mutations target distinct subgroups of medulloblastoma.

Robinson G(1), Parker M, Kranenburg TA, Lu C, Chen X, Ding L, Phoenix TN, Hedlund
E, Wei L, Zhu X, Chalhoub N, Baker SJ, Huether R, Kriwacki R, Curley N,
Thiruvenkatam R, Wang J, Wu G, Rusch M, Hong X, Becksfort J, Gupta P, Ma J,
Easton J, Vadodaria B, Onar-Thomas A, Lin T, Li S, Pounds S, Paugh S, Zhao D,
Kawauchi D, Roussel MF, Finkelstein D, Ellison DW, Lau CC, Bouffet E, Hassall T, 
Gururangan S, Cohn R, Fulton RS, Fulton LL, Dooling DJ, Ochoa K, Gajjar A, Mardis
ER, Wilson RK, Downing JR, Zhang J, Gilbertson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Washington University Pediatric Cancer
Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Medulloblastoma is a malignant childhood brain tumour comprising four discrete
subgroups. Here, to identify mutations that drive medulloblastoma, we sequenced
the entire genomes of 37 tumours and matched normal blood. One-hundred and
thirty-six genes harbouring somatic mutations in this discovery set were
sequenced in an additional 56 medulloblastomas. Recurrent mutations were detected
in 41 genes not yet implicated in medulloblastoma; several target distinct
components of the epigenetic machinery in different disease subgroups, such as
regulators of H3K27 and H3K4 trimethylation in subgroups 3 and 4 (for example,
KDM6A and ZMYM3), and CTNNB1-associated chromatin re-modellers in WNT-subgroup
tumours (for example, SMARCA4 and CREBBP). Modelling of mutations in mouse lower 
rhombic lip progenitors that generate WNT-subgroup tumours identified genes that 
maintain this cell lineage (DDX3X), as well as mutated genes that initiate (CDH1)
or cooperate (PIK3CA) in tumorigenesis. These data provide important new insights
into the pathogenesis of medulloblastoma subgroups and highlight targets for
therapeutic development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11213 
PMCID: PMC3412905
PMID: 22722829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):463-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11215.

Structured spheres generated by an in-fibre fluid instability.

Kaufman JJ(1), Tao G, Shabahang S, Banaei EH, Deng DS, Liang X, Johnson SG, Fink 
Y, Abouraddy AF.

Author information: 
(1)CREOL, The College of Optics & Photonics, University of Central Florida,
Orlando, Florida 32816, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):460.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):440-1.

From drug delivery to chemical and biological catalysis and cosmetics, the need
for efficient fabrication pathways for particles over a wide range of sizes, from
a variety of materials, and in many different structures has been well
established. Here we harness the inherent scalability of fibre production and an 
in-fibre Plateau-Rayleigh capillary instability for the fabrication of uniformly 
sized, structured spherical particles spanning an exceptionally wide range of
sizes: from 2 mm down to 20 nm. Thermal processing of a multimaterial fibre
controllably induces the instability, resulting in a well-ordered, oriented
emulsion in three dimensions. The fibre core and cladding correspond to the
dispersed and continuous phases, respectively, and are both frozen in situ on
cooling, after which the particles are released when needed. By arranging a
variety of structures and materials in a macroscopic scaled-up model of the
fibre, we produce composite, structured, spherical particles, such as core-shell 
particles, two-compartment 'Janus' particles, and multi-sectioned 'beach ball'
particles. Moreover, producing fibres with a high density of cores allows for an 
unprecedented level of parallelization. In principle, 10(8) 50-nm cores may be
embedded in metres-long, 1-mm-diameter fibre, which can be induced to break up
simultaneously throughout its length, into uniformly sized, structured spheres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11215 
PMID: 22810590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):491-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11288.

Interpreting cancer genomes using systematic host network perturbations by tumour
virus proteins.

Rozenblatt-Rosen O(1), Deo RC, Padi M, Adelmant G, Calderwood MA, Rolland T,
Grace M, Dricot A, Askenazi M, Tavares M, Pevzner SJ, Abderazzaq F, Byrdsong D,
Carvunis AR, Chen AA, Cheng J, Correll M, Duarte M, Fan C, Feltkamp MC, Ficarro
SB, Franchi R, Garg BK, Gulbahce N, Hao T, Holthaus AM, James R, Korkhin A,
Litovchick L, Mar JC, Pak TR, Rabello S, Rubio R, Shen Y, Singh S, Spangle JM,
Tasan M, Wanamaker S, Webber JT, Roecklein-Canfield J, Johannsen E, Barabási AL, 
Beroukhim R, Kieff E, Cusick ME, Hill DE, Münger K, Marto JA, Quackenbush J, Roth
FP, DeCaprio JA, Vidal M.

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Analysis of Network Perturbations Center of Excellence in Genomic
Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2012 Sep;9(9):868.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Sep;12(9):582.

Genotypic differences greatly influence susceptibility and resistance to disease.
Understanding genotype-phenotype relationships requires that phenotypes be viewed
as manifestations of network properties, rather than simply as the result of
individual genomic variations. Genome sequencing efforts have identified numerous
germline mutations, and large numbers of somatic genomic alterations, associated 
with a predisposition to cancer. However, it remains difficult to distinguish
background, or 'passenger', cancer mutations from causal, or 'driver', mutations 
in these data sets. Human viruses intrinsically depend on their host cell during 
the course of infection and can elicit pathological phenotypes similar to those
arising from mutations. Here we test the hypothesis that genomic variations and
tumour viruses may cause cancer through related mechanisms, by systematically
examining host interactome and transcriptome network perturbations caused by DNA 
tumour virus proteins. The resulting integrated viral perturbation data reflects 
rewiring of the host cell networks, and highlights pathways, such as Notch
signalling and apoptosis, that go awry in cancer. We show that systematic
analyses of host targets of viral proteins can identify cancer genes with a
success rate on a par with their identification through functional genomics and
large-scale cataloguing of tumour mutations. Together, these complementary
approaches increase the specificity of cancer gene identification. Combining
systems-level studies of pathogen-encoded gene products with genomic approaches
will facilitate the prioritization of cancer-causing driver genes to advance the 
understanding of the genetic basis of human cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11288 
PMCID: PMC3408847
PMID: 22810586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):486-90. doi: 10.1038/nature11289.

Viral immune modulators perturb the human molecular network by common and unique 
strategies.

Pichlmair A(1), Kandasamy K, Alvisi G, Mulhern O, Sacco R, Habjan M, Binder M,
Stefanovic A, Eberle CA, Goncalves A, Bürckstümmer T, Müller AC, Fauster A, Holze
C, Lindsten K, Goodbourn S, Kochs G, Weber F, Bartenschlager R, Bowie AG, Bennett
KL, Colinge J, Superti-Furga G.

Author information: 
(1)CeMMResearch Center for Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of
Sciences, 1090 Vienna, Austria.

Viruses must enter host cells to replicate, assemble and propagate. Because of
the restricted size of their genomes, viruses have had to evolve efficient ways
of exploiting host cell processes to promote their own life cycles and also to
escape host immune defence mechanisms. Many viral open reading frames (viORFs)
with immune-modulating functions essential for productive viral growth have been 
identified across a range of viral classes. However, there has been no
comprehensive study to identify the host factors with which these viORFs interact
for a global perspective of viral perturbation strategies. Here we show that
different viral perturbation patterns of the host molecular defence network can
be deduced from a mass-spectrometry-based host-factor survey in a defined human
cellular system by using 70 innate immune-modulating viORFs from 30 viral
species. The 579 host proteins targeted by the viORFs mapped to an unexpectedly
large number of signalling pathways and cellular processes, suggesting yet
unknown mechanisms of antiviral immunity. We further experimentally verified the 
targets heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U, phosphatidylinositol-3-OH
kinase, the WNK (with-no-lysine) kinase family and USP19 (ubiquitin-specific
peptidase 19) as vulnerable nodes in the host cellular defence system. Evaluation
of the impact of viral immune modulators on the host molecular network revealed
perturbation strategies used by individual viruses and by viral classes. Our data
are also valuable for the design of broad and specific antiviral therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11289 
PMID: 22810585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):443-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11314.

Oligodendroglia metabolically support axons and contribute to neurodegeneration.

Lee Y(1), Morrison BM, Li Y, Lengacher S, Farah MH, Hoffman PN, Liu Y, Tsingalia 
A, Jin L, Zhang PW, Pellerin L, Magistretti PJ, Rothstein JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA.

Comment in
    Dis Model Mech. 2012 Nov;5(6):711-2.
    Mov Disord. 2012 Sep 15;27(11):1357.
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):435-6.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Sep;13(9):601.

Oligodendroglia support axon survival and function through mechanisms independent
of myelination, and their dysfunction leads to axon degeneration in several
diseases. The cause of this degeneration has not been determined, but lack of
energy metabolites such as glucose or lactate has been proposed. Lactate is
transported exclusively by monocarboxylate transporters, and changes to these
transporters alter lactate production and use. Here we show that the most
abundant lactate transporter in the central nervous system, monocarboxylate
transporter 1 (MCT1, also known as SLC16A1), is highly enriched within
oligodendroglia and that disruption of this transporter produces axon damage and 
neuron loss in animal and cell culture models. In addition, this same transporter
is reduced in patients with, and in mouse models of, amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, suggesting a role for oligodendroglial MCT1 in pathogenesis. The role 
of oligodendroglia in axon function and neuron survival has been elusive; this
study defines a new fundamental mechanism by which oligodendroglia support
neurons and axons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11314 
PMCID: PMC3408792
PMID: 22801498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):510-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11217.

RNA sequencing of pancreatic circulating tumour cells implicates WNT signalling
in metastasis.

Yu M(1), Ting DT, Stott SL, Wittner BS, Ozsolak F, Paul S, Ciciliano JC, Smas ME,
Winokur D, Gilman AJ, Ulman MJ, Xega K, Contino G, Alagesan B, Brannigan BW,
Milos PM, Ryan DP, Sequist LV, Bardeesy N, Ramaswamy S, Toner M, Maheswaran S,
Haber DA.

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 25;490(7421):570.

Circulating tumour cells (CTCs) shed into blood from primary cancers include
putative precursors that initiate distal metastases. Although these cells are
extraordinarily rare, they may identify cellular pathways contributing to the
blood-borne dissemination of cancer. Here, we adapted a microfluidic device for
efficient capture of CTCs from an endogenous mouse pancreatic cancer model and
subjected CTCs to single-molecule RNA sequencing, identifying Wnt2 as a candidate
gene enriched in CTCs. Expression of WNT2 in pancreatic cancer cells suppresses
anoikis, enhances anchorage-independent sphere formation, and increases
metastatic propensity in vivo. This effect is correlated with fibronectin
upregulation and suppressed by inhibition of MAP3K7 (also known as TAK1) kinase. 
In humans, formation of non-adherent tumour spheres by pancreatic cancer cells is
associated with upregulation of multiple WNT genes, and pancreatic CTCs revealed 
enrichment for WNT signalling in 5 out of 11 cases. Thus, molecular analysis of
CTCs may identify candidate therapeutic targets to prevent the distal spread of
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11217 
PMCID: PMC3408856
PMID: 22763454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):514-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11182.

Structural insights into electron transfer in caa3-type cytochrome oxidase.

Lyons JA(1), Aragão D, Slattery O, Pisliakov AV, Soulimane T, Caffrey M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Environmental Sciences, University of Limerick,
Limerick, Ireland.

Cytochrome c oxidase is a member of the haem copper oxidase superfamily (HCO).
HCOs function as the terminal enzymes in the respiratory chain of mitochondria
and aerobic prokaryotes, coupling molecular oxygen reduction to transmembrane
proton pumping. Integral to the enzyme's function is the transfer of electrons
from cytochrome c to the oxidase via a transient association of the two proteins.
Electron entry and exit are proposed to occur from the same site on cytochrome c.
Here we report the crystal structure of the caa3-type cytochrome oxidase from
Thermus thermophilus, which has a covalently tethered cytochrome c domain.
Crystals were grown in a bicontinuous mesophase using a synthetic short-chain
monoacylglycerol as the hosting lipid. From the electron density map, at 2.36 Å
resolution, a novel integral membrane subunit and a native
glycoglycerophospholipid embedded in the complex were identified. Contrary to
previous electron transfer mechanisms observed for soluble cytochrome c, the
structure reveals the architecture of the electron transfer complex for the fused
cupredoxin/cytochrome c domain, which implicates different sites on cytochrome c 
for electron entry and exit. Support for an alternative to the classical proton
gate characteristic of this HCO class is presented.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11182 
PMCID: PMC3428721
PMID: 22763450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):505-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11249.

Widespread potential for growth-factor-driven resistance to anticancer kinase
inhibitors.

Wilson TR(1), Fridlyand J, Yan Y, Penuel E, Burton L, Chan E, Peng J, Lin E, Wang
Y, Sosman J, Ribas A, Li J, Moffat J, Sutherlin DP, Koeppen H, Merchant M, Neve
R, Settleman J.

Author information: 
(1)Research Oncology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 
94080, USA.

Comment in
    Elife. 2014;3. doi: 10.7554/eLife.04037.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug;9(8):429.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Aug;12(8):505.

Mutationally activated kinases define a clinically validated class of targets for
cancer drug therapy. However, the efficacy of kinase inhibitors in patients whose
tumours harbour such alleles is invariably limited by innate or acquired drug
resistance. The identification of resistance mechanisms has revealed a recurrent 
theme—the engagement of survival signals redundant to those transduced by the
targeted kinase. Cancer cells typically express multiple receptor tyrosine
kinases (RTKs) that mediate signals that converge on common critical downstream
cell-survival effectors—most notably, phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K)
and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Consequently, an increase in
RTK-ligand levels, through autocrine tumour-cell production, paracrine
contribution from tumour stroma or systemic production, could confer resistance
to inhibitors of an oncogenic kinase with a similar signalling output. Here,
using a panel of kinase-'addicted' human cancer cell lines, we found that most
cells can be rescued from drug sensitivity by simply exposing them to one or more
RTK ligands. Among the findings with clinical implications was the observation
that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) confers resistance to the BRAF inhibitor
PLX4032 (vemurafenib) in BRAF-mutant melanoma cells. These observations highlight
the extensive redundancy of RTK-transduced signalling in cancer cells and the
potentially broad role of widely expressed RTK ligands in innate and acquired
resistance to drugs targeting oncogenic kinases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11249 
PMCID: PMC3724525
PMID: 22763448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):500-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11183.

Tumour micro-environment elicits innate resistance to RAF inhibitors through HGF 
secretion.

Straussman R(1), Morikawa T, Shee K, Barzily-Rokni M, Qian ZR, Du J, Davis A,
Mongare MM, Gould J, Frederick DT, Cooper ZA, Chapman PB, Solit DB, Ribas A, Lo
RS, Flaherty KT, Ogino S, Wargo JA, Golub TR.

Author information: 
(1)The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Aug;12(8):505.
    Elife. 2014;3. doi: 10.7554/eLife.04034.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug;9(8):429.

Drug resistance presents a challenge to the treatment of cancer patients. Many
studies have focused on cell-autonomous mechanisms of drug resistance. By
contrast, we proposed that the tumour micro-environment confers innate resistance
to therapy. Here we developed a co-culture system to systematically assay the
ability of 23 stromal cell types to influence the innate resistance of 45 cancer 
cell lines to 35 anticancer drugs. We found that stroma-mediated resistance is
common, particularly to targeted agents. We characterized further the
stroma-mediated resistance of BRAF-mutant melanoma to RAF inhibitors because most
patients with this type of cancer show some degree of innate resistance.
Proteomic analysis showed that stromal cell secretion of hepatocyte growth factor
(HGF) resulted in activation of the HGF receptor MET, reactivation of the
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase
(PI(3)K)-AKT signalling pathways, and immediate resistance to RAF inhibition.
Immunohistochemistry experiments confirmed stromal cell expression of HGF in
patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma and showed a significant correlation between
HGF expression by stromal cells and innate resistance to RAF inhibitor treatment.
Dual inhibition of RAF and either HGF or MET resulted in reversal of drug
resistance, suggesting RAF plus HGF or MET inhibitory combination therapy as a
potential therapeutic strategy for BRAF-mutant melanoma. A similar resistance
mechanism was uncovered in a subset of BRAF-mutant colorectal and glioblastoma
cell lines. More generally, this study indicates that the systematic dissection
of interactions between tumours and their micro-environment can uncover important
mechanisms underlying drug resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11183 
PMCID: PMC3711467
PMID: 22763439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):496-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11218.

Live imaging of stem cell and progeny behaviour in physiological hair-follicle
regeneration.

Rompolas P(1), Deschene ER, Zito G, Gonzalez DG, Saotome I, Haberman AM, Greco V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510,
USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Aug 3;11(2):141-2.

Tissue development and regeneration depend on cell-cell interactions and signals 
that target stem cells and their immediate progeny. However, the cellular
behaviours that lead to a properly regenerated tissue are not well understood.
Using a new, non-invasive, intravital two-photon imaging approach we study
physiological hair-follicle regeneration over time in live mice. By these means
we have monitored the behaviour of epithelial stem cells and their progeny during
physiological hair regeneration and addressed how the mesenchyme influences their
behaviour. Consistent with earlier studies, stem cells are quiescent during the
initial stages of hair regeneration, whereas the progeny are more actively
dividing. Moreover, stem cell progeny divisions are spatially organized within
follicles. In addition to cell divisions, coordinated cell movements of the
progeny allow the rapid expansion of the hair follicle. Finally, we show the
requirement of the mesenchyme for hair regeneration through targeted cell
ablation and long-term tracking of live hair follicles. Thus, we have established
an in vivo approach that has led to the direct observation of cellular mechanisms
of growth regulation within the hair follicle and that has enabled us to
precisely investigate functional requirements of hair-follicle components during 
the process of physiological regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11218 
PMCID: PMC3772651
PMID: 22763436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):472-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11205.

Reconciling the temperature dependence of respiration across timescales and
ecosystem types.

Yvon-Durocher G(1), Caffrey JM, Cescatti A, Dossena M, del Giorgio P, Gasol JM,
Montoya JM, Pumpanen J, Staehr PA, Trimmer M, Woodward G, Allen AP.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological & Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London,
London E1 4NS, UK. g.yvon-durocher@exeter.ac.uk

Ecosystem respiration is the biotic conversion of organic carbon to carbon
dioxide by all of the organisms in an ecosystem, including both consumers and
primary producers. Respiration exhibits an exponential temperature dependence at 
the subcellular and individual levels, but at the ecosystem level respiration can
be modified by many variables including community abundance and biomass, which
vary substantially among ecosystems. Despite its importance for predicting the
responses of the biosphere to climate change, it is as yet unknown whether the
temperature dependence of ecosystem respiration varies systematically between
aquatic and terrestrial environments. Here we use the largest database of
respiratory measurements yet compiled to show that the sensitivity of ecosystem
respiration to seasonal changes in temperature is remarkably similar for diverse 
environments encompassing lakes, rivers, estuaries, the open ocean and forested
and non-forested terrestrial ecosystems, with an average activation energy
similar to that of the respiratory complex (approximately 0.65 electronvolts
(eV)). By contrast, annual ecosystem respiration shows a substantially greater
temperature dependence across aquatic (approximately 0.65 eV) versus terrestrial 
ecosystems (approximately 0.32 eV) that span broad geographic gradients in
temperature. Using a model derived from metabolic theory, these findings can be
reconciled by similarities in the biochemical kinetics of metabolism at the
subcellular level, and fundamental differences in the importance of other
variables besides temperature—such as primary productivity and allochthonous
carbon inputs—on the structure of aquatic and terrestrial biota at the community 
level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11205 
PMID: 22722862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 2012 Jul 25;487(7408):482-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11286.

Administration of vorinostat disrupts HIV-1 latency in patients on antiretroviral
therapy.

Archin NM(1), Liberty AL, Kashuba AD, Choudhary SK, Kuruc JD, Crooks AM, Parker
DC, Anderson EM, Kearney MF, Strain MC, Richman DD, Hudgens MG, Bosch RJ, Coffin 
JM, Eron JJ, Hazuda DJ, Margolis DM.

Author information: 
(1)The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
27599, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):460.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):439-40.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Sep;10(9):596-7.

Despite antiretroviral therapy, proviral latency of human immunodeficiency virus 
type 1 (HIV-1) remains a principal obstacle to curing the infection. Inducing the
expression of latent genomes within resting CD4(+) T cells is the primary
strategy to clear this reservoir. Although histone deacetylase inhibitors such as
suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (also known as vorinostat, VOR) can disrupt HIV-1
latency in vitro, the utility of this approach has never been directly proven in 
a translational clinical study of HIV-infected patients. Here we isolated the
circulating resting CD4(+) T cells of patients in whom viraemia was fully
suppressed by antiretroviral therapy, and directly studied the effect of VOR on
this latent reservoir. In each of eight patients, a single dose of VOR increased 
both biomarkers of cellular acetylation, and simultaneously induced an increase
in HIV RNA expression in resting CD4(+) cells (mean increase, 4.8-fold). This
demonstrates that a molecular mechanism known to enforce HIV latency can be
therapeutically targeted in humans, provides proof-of-concept for histone
deacetylase inhibitors as a therapeutic class, and defines a precise approach to 
test novel strategies to attack and eradicate latent HIV infection directly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11286 
PMCID: PMC3704185
PMID: 22837004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2012 Jul 25;487(7408):477-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11228.

ACE2 links amino acid malnutrition to microbial ecology and intestinal
inflammation.

Hashimoto T(1), Perlot T, Rehman A, Trichereau J, Ishiguro H, Paolino M, Sigl V, 
Hanada T, Hanada R, Lipinski S, Wild B, Camargo SM, Singer D, Richter A, Kuba K, 
Fukamizu A, Schreiber S, Clevers H, Verrey F, Rosenstiel P, Penninger JM.

Author information: 
(1)IMBA, Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of
Sciences, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):437-9.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Sep;9(9):490.

Malnutrition affects up to one billion people in the world and is a major cause
of mortality. In many cases, malnutrition is associated with diarrhoea and
intestinal inflammation, further contributing to morbidity and death. The
mechanisms by which unbalanced dietary nutrients affect intestinal homeostasis
are largely unknown. Here we report that deficiency in murine angiotensin I
converting enzyme (peptidyl-dipeptidase A) 2 (Ace2), which encodes a key
regulatory enzyme of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), results in highly
increased susceptibility to intestinal inflammation induced by epithelial damage.
The RAS is known to be involved in acute lung failure, cardiovascular functions
and SARS infections. Mechanistically, ACE2 has a RAS-independent function,
regulating intestinal amino acid homeostasis, expression of antimicrobial
peptides, and the ecology of the gut microbiome. Transplantation of the altered
microbiota from Ace2 mutant mice into germ-free wild-type hosts was able to
transmit the increased propensity to develop severe colitis. ACE2-dependent
changes in epithelial immunity and the gut microbiota can be directly regulated
by the dietary amino acid tryptophan. Our results identify ACE2 as a key
regulator of dietary amino acid homeostasis, innate immunity, gut microbial
ecology, and transmissible susceptibility to colitis. These results provide a
molecular explanation for how amino acid malnutrition can cause intestinal
inflammation and diarrhoea.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11228 
PMID: 22837003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 2012 Jul 25;487(7408):468-71. doi: 10.1038/nature11292.

Inland thinning of West Antarctic Ice Sheet steered along subglacial rifts.

Bingham RG(1), Ferraccioli F, King EC, Larter RD, Pritchard HD, Smith AM, Vaughan
DG.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geosciences, University of Aberdeen, Elphinstone Road, Aberdeen,
AB24 3UF, UK. r.bingham@abdn.ac.uk

Current ice loss from the West Antarctic Ice Sheet (WAIS) accounts for about ten 
per cent of observed global sea-level rise. Losses are dominated by dynamic
thinning, in which forcings by oceanic or atmospheric perturbations to the ice
margin lead to an accelerated thinning of ice along the coastline. Although
central to improving projections of future ice-sheet contributions to global
sea-level rise, the incorporation of dynamic thinning into models has been
restricted by lack of knowledge of basal topography and subglacial geology so
that the rate and ultimate extent of potential WAIS retreat remains difficult to 
quantify. Here we report the discovery of a subglacial basin under Ferrigno Ice
Stream up to 1.5 kilometres deep that connects the ice-sheet interior to the
Bellingshausen Sea margin, and whose existence profoundly affects ice loss. We
use a suite of ice-penetrating radar, magnetic and gravity measurements to
propose a rift origin for the basin in association with the wider development of 
the West Antarctic rift system. The Ferrigno rift, overdeepened by glacial
erosion, is a conduit which fed a major palaeo-ice stream on the adjacent
continental shelf during glacial maxima. The palaeo-ice stream, in turn, eroded
the 'Belgica' trough, which today routes warm open-ocean water back to the ice
front to reinforce dynamic thinning. We show that dynamic thinning from both the 
Bellingshausen and Amundsen Sea region is being steered back to the ice-sheet
interior along rift basins. We conclude that rift basins that cut across the WAIS
margin can rapidly transmit coastally perturbed change inland, thereby promoting 
ice-sheet instability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11292 
PMID: 22837002 


440. Nature. 2012 Jul 25;487(7408):459-62. doi: 10.1038/nature11296.

Collective bulk carrier delocalization driven by electrostatic surface charge
accumulation.

Nakano M(1), Shibuya K, Okuyama D, Hatano T, Ono S, Kawasaki M, Iwasa Y, Tokura
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Correlated Electron Research Group and Cross-correlated Materials Research
Group, RIKEN Advanced Science Institute, Wako 351-0198, Japan. mnakano@riken.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):436-7.

In the classic transistor, the number of electric charge carriers--and thus the
electrical conductivity--is precisely controlled by external voltage, providing
electrical switching capability. This simple but powerful feature is essential
for information processing technology, and also provides a platform for
fundamental physics research. As the number of charges essentially determines the
electronic phase of a condensed-matter system, transistor operation enables
reversible and isothermal changes in the system's state, as successfully
demonstrated in electric-field-induced ferromagnetism and superconductivity.
However, this effect of the electric field is limited to a channel thickness of
nanometres or less, owing to the presence of Thomas-Fermi screening. Here we show
that this conventional picture does not apply to a class of materials
characterized by inherent collective interactions between electrons and the
crystal lattice. We prepared metal-insulator-semiconductor field-effect
transistors based on vanadium dioxide--a strongly correlated material with a
thermally driven, first-order metal-insulator transition well above room
temperature--and found that electrostatic charging at a surface drives all the
previously localized charge carriers in the bulk material into motion, leading to
the emergence of a three-dimensional metallic ground state. This non-local
switching of the electronic state is achieved by applying a voltage of only about
one volt. In a voltage-sweep measurement, the first-order nature of the
metal-insulator transition provides a non-volatile memory effect, which is
operable at room temperature. Our results demonstrate a conceptually new
field-effect device, extending the concept of electric-field control to
macroscopic phase control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11296 
PMID: 22837001 


441. Nature. 2012 Jul 25;487(7408):454-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11255.

The 'Higgs' amplitude mode at the two-dimensional superfluid/Mott insulator
transition.

Endres M(1), Fukuhara T, Pekker D, Cheneau M, Schauss P, Gross C, Demler E, Kuhr 
S, Bloch I.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, 85748 Garching, Germany.
manuel.endres@mpq.mpg.de

Spontaneous symmetry breaking plays a key role in our understanding of nature. In
relativistic quantum field theory, a broken continuous symmetry leads to the
emergence of two types of fundamental excitation: massless Nambu-Goldstone modes 
and a massive 'Higgs' amplitude mode. An excitation of Higgs type is of crucial
importance in the standard model of elementary particle physics, and also appears
as a fundamental collective mode in quantum many-body systems. Whether such a
mode exists in low-dimensional systems as a resonance-like feature, or whether it
becomes overdamped through coupling to Nambu-Goldstone modes, has been a subject 
of debate. Here we experimentally find and study a Higgs mode in a
two-dimensional neutral superfluid close to a quantum phase transition to a Mott 
insulating phase. We unambiguously identify the mode by observing the expected
reduction in frequency of the onset of spectral response when approaching the
transition point. In this regime, our system is described by an effective
relativistic field theory with a two-component quantum field, which constitutes a
minimal model for spontaneous breaking of a continuous symmetry. Additionally,
all microscopic parameters of our system are known from first principles and the 
resolution of our measurement allows us to detect excited states of the many-body
system at the level of individual quasiparticles. This allows for an in-depth
study of Higgs excitations that also addresses the consequences of the reduced
dimensionality and confinement of the system. Our work constitutes a step towards
exploring emergent relativistic models with ultracold atomic gases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11255 
PMID: 22837000 


442. Nature. 2012 Jul 25;487(7408):449-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11301.

Alignment of the stellar spin with the orbits of a three-planet system.

Sanchis-Ojeda R(1), Fabrycky DC, Winn JN, Barclay T, Clarke BD, Ford EB, Fortney 
JJ, Geary JC, Holman MJ, Howard AW, Jenkins JM, Koch D, Lissauer JJ, Marcy GW,
Mullally F, Ragozzine D, Seader SE, Still M, Thompson SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts
Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. rsanchis86@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 26;487(7408):434-5.

The Sun's equator and the planets' orbital planes are nearly aligned, which is
presumably a consequence of their formation from a single spinning gaseous disk. 
For exoplanetary systems this well-aligned configuration is not guaranteed:
dynamical interactions may tilt planetary orbits, or stars may be misaligned with
the protoplanetary disk through chaotic accretion , magnetic interactions or
torques from neighbouring stars. Indeed, isolated 'hot Jupiters' are often
misaligned and even orbiting retrograde. Here we report an analysis of transits
of planets over starspots on the Sun-like star Kepler-30 (ref. 8), and show that 
the orbits of its three planets are aligned with the stellar equator.
Furthermore, the orbits are aligned with one another to within a few degrees.
This configuration is similar to that of our Solar System, and contrasts with the
isolated hot Jupiters. The orderly alignment seen in the Kepler-30 system
suggests that high obliquities are confined to systems that experienced
disruptive dynamical interactions. Should this be corroborated by observations of
other coplanar multi-planet systems, then star-disk misalignments would be ruled 
out as the explanation for the high obliquities of hot Jupiters, and dynamical
interactions would be implicated as the origin of hot Jupiters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11301 
PMID: 22836999 


443. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):345-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11231.

Terahertz-field-induced insulator-to-metal transition in vanadium dioxide
metamaterial.

Liu M(1), Hwang HY, Tao H, Strikwerda AC, Fan K, Keiser GR, Sternbach AJ, West
KG, Kittiwatanakul S, Lu J, Wolf SA, Omenetto FG, Zhang X, Nelson KA, Averitt RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Electron-electron interactions can render an otherwise conducting material
insulating, with the insulator-metal phase transition in correlated-electron
materials being the canonical macroscopic manifestation of the competition
between charge-carrier itinerancy and localization. The transition can arise from
underlying microscopic interactions among the charge, lattice, orbital and spin
degrees of freedom, the complexity of which leads to multiple phase-transition
pathways. For example, in many transition metal oxides, the insulator-metal
transition has been achieved with external stimuli, including temperature, light,
electric field, mechanical strain or magnetic field. Vanadium dioxide is
particularly intriguing because both the lattice and on-site Coulomb repulsion
contribute to the insulator-to-metal transition at 340 K (ref. 8). Thus, although
the precise microscopic origin of the phase transition remains elusive, vanadium 
dioxide serves as a testbed for correlated-electron phase-transition dynamics.
Here we report the observation of an insulator-metal transition in vanadium
dioxide induced by a terahertz electric field. This is achieved using
metamaterial-enhanced picosecond, high-field terahertz pulses to reduce the
Coulomb-induced potential barrier for carrier transport. A nonlinear metamaterial
response is observed through the phase transition, demonstrating that high-field 
terahertz pulses provide alternative pathways to induce collective electronic and
structural rearrangements. The metamaterial resonators play a dual role,
providing sub-wavelength field enhancement that locally drives the nonlinear
response, and global sensitivity to the local changes, thereby enabling
macroscopic observation of the dynamics. This methodology provides a powerful
platform to investigate low-energy dynamics in condensed matter and, further,
demonstrates that integration of metamaterials with complex matter is a viable
pathway to realize functional nonlinear electromagnetic composites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11231 
PMID: 22801506 


444. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):380-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11207.

SHARP1 suppresses breast cancer metastasis by promoting degradation of
hypoxia-inducible factors.

Montagner M(1), Enzo E, Forcato M, Zanconato F, Parenti A, Rampazzo E, Basso G,
Leo G, Rosato A, Bicciato S, Cordenonsi M, Piccolo S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Padua School of Medicine,
Viale Colombo 3, 35131 Padua, Italy.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Sep;12(9):580-1.

The molecular determinants of malignant cell behaviours in breast cancer remain
only partially understood. Here we show that SHARP1 (also known as BHLHE41 or
DEC2) is a crucial regulator of the invasive and metastatic phenotype in
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), one of the most aggressive types of breast 
cancer. SHARP1 is regulated by the p63 metastasis suppressor and inhibits TNBC
aggressiveness through inhibition of hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) and
HIF-2α (HIFs). SHARP1 opposes HIF-dependent TNBC cell migration in vitro, and
invasive or metastatic behaviours in vivo. SHARP1 is required, and sufficient, to
limit expression of HIF-target genes. In primary TNBC, endogenous SHARP1 levels
are inversely correlated with those of HIF targets. Mechanistically, SHARP1 binds
to HIFs and promotes HIF proteasomal degradation by serving as the HIF-presenting
factor to the proteasome. This process is independent of pVHL (von Hippel-Lindau 
tumour suppressor), hypoxia and the ubiquitination machinery. SHARP1 therefore
determines the intrinsic instability of HIF proteins to act in parallel to, and
cooperate with, oxygen levels. This work sheds light on the mechanisms and
pathways by which TNBC acquires invasiveness and metastatic propensity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11207 
PMID: 22801492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):325-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11260.

Myocardial infarction accelerates atherosclerosis.

Dutta P(1), Courties G, Wei Y, Leuschner F, Gorbatov R, Robbins CS, Iwamoto Y,
Thompson B, Carlson AL, Heidt T, Majmudar MD, Lasitschka F, Etzrodt M, Waterman
P, Waring MT, Chicoine AT, van der Laan AM, Niessen HW, Piek JJ, Rubin BB, Butany
J, Stone JR, Katus HA, Murphy SA, Morrow DA, Sabatine MS, Vinegoni C, Moskowitz
MA, Pittet MJ, Libby P, Lin CP, Swirski FK, Weissleder R, Nahrendorf M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):306-8.
    Circ Res. 2013 Jan 4;112(1):13-6.

During progression of atherosclerosis, myeloid cells destabilize lipid-rich
plaques in the arterial wall and cause their rupture, thus triggering myocardial 
infarction and stroke. Survivors of acute coronary syndromes have a high risk of 
recurrent events for unknown reasons. Here we show that the systemic response to 
ischaemic injury aggravates chronic atherosclerosis. After myocardial infarction 
or stroke, Apoe-/- mice developed larger atherosclerotic lesions with a more
advanced morphology. This disease acceleration persisted over many weeks and was 
associated with markedly increased monocyte recruitment. Seeking the source of
surplus monocytes in plaques, we found that myocardial infarction liberated
haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from bone marrow niches via sympathetic 
nervous system signalling. The progenitors then seeded the spleen, yielding a
sustained boost in monocyte production. These observations provide new
mechanistic insight into atherogenesis and provide a novel therapeutic
opportunity to mitigate disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11260 
PMCID: PMC3401326
PMID: 22763456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):320-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11251.

Non-invasive prenatal measurement of the fetal genome.

Fan HC(1), Gu W, Wang J, Blumenfeld YJ, El-Sayed YY, Quake SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Clark Center Rm E300, 318
Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):326.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):304-5.

The vast majority of prenatal genetic testing requires invasive sampling.
However, this poses a risk to the fetus, so one must make a decision that weighs 
the desire for genetic information against the risk of an adverse outcome due to 
hazards of the testing process. These issues are not required to be coupled, and 
it would be desirable to discover genetic information about the fetus without
incurring a health risk. Here we demonstrate that it is possible to
non-invasively sequence the entire prenatal genome. Our results show that
molecular counting of parental haplotypes in maternal plasma by shotgun
sequencing of maternal plasma DNA allows the inherited fetal genome to be
deciphered non-invasively. We also applied the counting principle directly to
each allele in the fetal exome by performing exome capture on maternal plasma DNA
before shotgun sequencing. This approach enables non-invasive exome screening of 
clinically relevant and deleterious alleles that were paternally inherited or had
arisen as de novo germline mutations, and complements the haplotype counting
approach to provide a comprehensive view of the fetal genome. Non-invasive
determination of the fetal genome may ultimately facilitate the diagnosis of all 
inherited and de novo genetic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11251 
PMCID: PMC3561905
PMID: 22763444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):358-61. doi: 10.1038/nature11264.

Seasonal bone growth and physiology in endotherms shed light on dinosaur
physiology.

Köhler M(1), Marín-Moratalla N, Jordana X, Aanes R.

Author information: 
(1)ICREA at the Institut Català de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra, Spain. meike.kohler@icp.cat

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):310-11.

Cyclical growth leaves marks in bone tissue that are in the forefront of
discussions about physiologies of extinct vertebrates. Ectotherms show pronounced
annual cycles of growth arrest that correlate with a decrease in body temperature
and metabolic rate; endotherms are assumed to grow continuously until they attain
maturity because of their constant high body temperature and sustained metabolic 
rate. This apparent dichotomy has driven the argument that zonal bone denotes
ectotherm-like physiologies, thus fuelling the controversy on dinosaur
thermophysiology and the evolution of endothermy in birds and mammal-like
reptiles. Here we show, from a comprehensive global study of wild ruminants from 
tropical to polar environments, that cyclical growth is a universal trait of
homoeothermic endotherms. Growth is arrested during the unfavourable season
concurrently with decreases in body temperature, metabolic rate and
bone-growth-mediating plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 levels, forming part of
a plesiomorphic thermometabolic strategy for energy conservation. Conversely,
bouts of intense tissue growth coincide with peak metabolic rates and correlated 
hormonal changes at the beginning of the favourable season, indicating an
increased efficiency in acquiring and using seasonal resources. Our study
supplies the strongest evidence so far that homeothermic endotherms arrest growth
seasonally, which precludes the use of lines of arrested growth as an argument in
support of ectothermy. However, high growth rates are a distinctive trait of
mammals, suggesting the capacity for endogenous heat generation. The ruminant
annual cycle provides an extant model on which to base inferences regarding the
thermophysiology of dinosaurs and other extinct taxa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11264 
PMID: 22763443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):362-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11153.

Widespread adoption of Bt cotton and insecticide decrease promotes biocontrol
services.

Lu Y(1), Wu K, Jiang Y, Guo Y, Desneux N.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193
China.

Over the past 16 years, vast plantings of transgenic crops producing insecticidal
proteins from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) have helped to control
several major insect pests and reduce the need for insecticide sprays. Because
broad-spectrum insecticides kill arthropod natural enemies that provide
biological control of pests, the decrease in use of insecticide sprays associated
with Bt crops could enhance biocontrol services. However, this hypothesis has not
been tested in terms of long-term landscape-level impacts. On the basis of data
from 1990 to 2010 at 36 sites in six provinces of northern China, we show here a 
marked increase in abundance of three types of generalist arthropod predators
(ladybirds, lacewings and spiders) and a decreased abundance of aphid pests
associated with widespread adoption of Bt cotton and reduced insecticide sprays
in this crop. We also found evidence that the predators might provide additional 
biocontrol services spilling over from Bt cotton fields onto neighbouring crops
(maize, peanut and soybean). Our work extends results from general studies
evaluating ecological effects of Bt crops by demonstrating that such crops can
promote biocontrol services in agricultural landscapes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11153 
PMID: 22722864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):375-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11174.

Analysis of Plasmodium falciparum diversity in natural infections by deep
sequencing.

Manske M(1), Miotto O, Campino S, Auburn S, Almagro-Garcia J, Maslen G, O'Brien
J, Djimde A, Doumbo O, Zongo I, Ouedraogo JB, Michon P, Mueller I, Siba P, Nzila 
A, Borrmann S, Kiara SM, Marsh K, Jiang H, Su XZ, Amaratunga C, Fairhurst R,
Socheat D, Nosten F, Imwong M, White NJ, Sanders M, Anastasi E, Alcock D, Drury
E, Oyola S, Quail MA, Turner DJ, Ruano-Rubio V, Jyothi D, Amenga-Etego L, Hubbart
C, Jeffreys A, Rowlands K, Sutherland C, Roper C, Mangano V, Modiano D, Tan JC,
Ferdig MT, Amambua-Ngwa A, Conway DJ, Takala-Harrison S, Plowe CV, Rayner JC,
Rockett KA, Clark TG, Newbold CI, Berriman M, MacInnis B, Kwiatkowski DP.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.

Malaria elimination strategies require surveillance of the parasite population
for genetic changes that demand a public health response, such as new forms of
drug resistance. Here we describe methods for the large-scale analysis of genetic
variation in Plasmodium falciparum by deep sequencing of parasite DNA obtained
from the blood of patients with malaria, either directly or after short-term
culture. Analysis of 86,158 exonic single nucleotide polymorphisms that passed
genotyping quality control in 227 samples from Africa, Asia and Oceania provides 
genome-wide estimates of allele frequency distribution, population structure and 
linkage disequilibrium. By comparing the genetic diversity of individual
infections with that of the local parasite population, we derive a metric of
within-host diversity that is related to the level of inbreeding in the
population. An open-access web application has been established for the
exploration of regional differences in allele frequency and of highly
differentiated loci in the P. falciparum genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11174 
PMCID: PMC3738909
PMID: 22722859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):390-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11172.

Heterogeneous pathways and timing of factor departure during translation
initiation.

Tsai A(1), Petrov A, Marshall RA, Korlach J, Uemura S, Puglisi JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305-5126, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2012 Aug;9(8):780.

The initiation of translation establishes the reading frame for protein synthesis
and is a key point of regulation. Initiation involves factor-driven assembly at a
start codon of a messenger RNA of an elongation-competent 70S ribosomal particle 
(in bacteria) from separated 30S and 50S subunits and initiator transfer RNA.
Here we establish in Escherichia coli, using direct single-molecule tracking, the
timing of initiator tRNA, initiation factor 2 (IF2; encoded by infB) and 50S
subunit joining during initiation. Our results show multiple pathways to
initiation, with orders of arrival of tRNA and IF2 dependent on factor
concentration and composition. IF2 accelerates 50S subunit joining and stabilizes
the assembled 70S complex. Transition to elongation is gated by the departure of 
IF2 after GTP hydrolysis, allowing efficient arrival of elongator tRNAs to the
second codon presented in the aminoacyl-tRNA binding site (A site). These
experiments highlight the power of single-molecule approaches to delineate
mechanisms in complex multicomponent systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11172 
PMCID: PMC4465488
PMID: 22722848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):366-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11144.

Ecological opportunity and sexual selection together predict adaptive radiation.

Wagner CE(1), Harmon LJ, Seehausen O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fish Ecology & Evolution, EAWAG Centre for Ecology, Evolution
and Biogeochemistry, 6047 Kastanienbaum, Switzerland. catherine.wagner@eawag.ch

A fundamental challenge to our understanding of biodiversity is to explain why
some groups of species undergo adaptive radiations, diversifying extensively into
many and varied species, whereas others do not. Both extrinsic environmental
factors (for example, resource availability, climate) and intrinsic
lineage-specific traits (for example, behavioural or morphological traits,
genetic architecture) influence diversification, but few studies have addressed
how such factors interact. Radiations of cichlid fishes in the African Great
Lakes provide some of the most dramatic cases of species diversification.
However, most cichlid lineages in African lakes have not undergone adaptive
radiations. Here we compile data on cichlid colonization and diversification in
46 African lakes, along with lake environmental features and information about
the traits of colonizing cichlid lineages, to investigate why adaptive radiation 
does and does not occur. We find that extrinsic environmental factors related to 
ecological opportunity and intrinsic lineage-specific traits related to sexual
selection both strongly influence whether cichlids radiate. Cichlids are more
likely to radiate in deep lakes, in regions with more incident solar radiation
and in lakes where there has been more time for diversification. Weak or negative
associations between diversification and lake surface area indicate that cichlid 
speciation is not constrained by area, in contrast to diversification in many
terrestrial taxa. Among the suite of intrinsic traits that we investigate, sexual
dichromatism, a surrogate for the intensity of sexual selection, is consistently 
positively associated with diversification. Thus, for cichlids, it is the
coincidence between ecological opportunity and sexual selection that best
predicts whether adaptive radiation will occur. These findings suggest that
adaptive radiation is predictable, but only when species traits and environmental
factors are jointly considered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11144 
PMID: 22722840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):370-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11184.

Proto-genes and de novo gene birth.

Carvunis AR(1), Rolland T, Wapinski I, Calderwood MA, Yildirim MA, Simonis N,
Charloteaux B, Hidalgo CA, Barbette J, Santhanam B, Brar GA, Weissman JS, Regev
A, Thierry-Mieg N, Cusick ME, Vidal M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cancer Systems Biology and Department of Cancer Biology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Aug;13(8):521.

Novel protein-coding genes can arise either through re-organization of
pre-existing genes or de novo. Processes involving re-organization of
pre-existing genes, notably after gene duplication, have been extensively
described. In contrast, de novo gene birth remains poorly understood, mainly
because translation of sequences devoid of genes, or 'non-genic' sequences, is
expected to produce insignificant polypeptides rather than proteins with specific
biological functions. Here we formalize an evolutionary model according to which 
functional genes evolve de novo through transitory proto-genes generated by
widespread translational activity in non-genic sequences. Testing this model at
the genome scale in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we detect translation of hundreds
of short species-specific open reading frames (ORFs) located in non-genic
sequences. These translation events seem to provide adaptive potential, as
suggested by their differential regulation upon stress and by signatures of
retention by natural selection. In line with our model, we establish that S.
cerevisiae ORFs can be placed within an evolutionary continuum ranging from
non-genic sequences to genes. We identify ~1,900 candidate proto-genes among S.
cerevisiae ORFs and find that de novo gene birth from such a reservoir may be
more prevalent than sporadic gene duplication. Our work illustrates that
evolution exploits seemingly dispensable sequences to generate adaptive
functional innovation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11184 
PMCID: PMC3401362
PMID: 22722833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):385-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11169.

Structure of the immature retroviral capsid at 8 Å resolution by cryo-electron
microscopy.

Bharat TA(1), Davey NE, Ulbrich P, Riches JD, de Marco A, Rumlova M, Sachse C,
Ruml T, Briggs JA.

Author information: 
(1)Structural and Computational Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.

The assembly of retroviruses such as HIV-1 is driven by oligomerization of their 
major structural protein, Gag. Gag is a multidomain polyprotein including three
conserved folded domains: MA (matrix), CA (capsid) and NC (nucleocapsid).
Assembly of an infectious virion proceeds in two stages. In the first stage, Gag 
oligomerization into a hexameric protein lattice leads to the formation of an
incomplete, roughly spherical protein shell that buds through the plasma membrane
of the infected cell to release an enveloped immature virus particle. In the
second stage, cleavage of Gag by the viral protease leads to rearrangement of the
particle interior, converting the non-infectious immature virus particle into a
mature infectious virion. The immature Gag shell acts as the pivotal intermediate
in assembly and is a potential target for anti-retroviral drugs both in
inhibiting virus assembly and in disrupting virus maturation. However, detailed
structural information on the immature Gag shell has not previously been
available. For this reason it is unclear what protein conformations and
interfaces mediate the interactions between domains and therefore the assembly of
retrovirus particles, and what structural transitions are associated with
retrovirus maturation. Here we solve the structure of the immature retroviral Gag
shell from Mason-Pfizer monkey virus by combining cryo-electron microscopy and
tomography. The 8-Å resolution structure permits the derivation of a
pseudo-atomic model of CA in the immature retrovirus, which defines the protein
interfaces mediating retrovirus assembly. We show that transition of an immature 
retrovirus into its mature infectious form involves marked rotations and
translations of CA domains, that the roles of the amino-terminal and
carboxy-terminal domains of CA in assembling the immature and mature hexameric
lattices are exchanged, and that the CA interactions that stabilize the immature 
and mature viruses are almost completely distinct.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11169 
PMID: 22722831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2012 Jul 18;487(7407):354-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11294.

Solid-liquid iron partitioning in Earth's deep mantle.

Andrault D(1), Petitgirard S, Lo Nigro G, Devidal JL, Veronesi G, Garbarino G,
Mezouar M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Magmas et Volcans, Université Blaise Pascal, CNRS, IRD, 63038
Clermont-Ferrand, France. d.andrault@opgc.univ-bpclermont.fr

Melting processes in the deep mantle have important implications for the origin
of the deep-derived plumes believed to feed hotspot volcanoes such as those in
Hawaii. They also provide insight into how the mantle has evolved, geochemically 
and dynamically, since the formation of Earth. Melt production in the shallow
mantle is quite well understood, but deeper melting near the core-mantle boundary
remains controversial. Modelling the dynamic behaviour of deep, partially molten 
mantle requires knowledge of the density contrast between solid and melt
fractions. Although both positive and negative melt buoyancies can produce major 
chemical segregation between different geochemical reservoirs, each type of
buoyancy yields drastically different geodynamical models. Ascent or descent of
liquids in a partially molten deep mantle should contribute to surface volcanism 
or production of a deep magma ocean, respectively. We investigated phase
relations in a partially molten chondritic-type material under deep-mantle
conditions. Here we show that the iron partition coefficient between
aluminium-bearing (Mg,Fe)SiO(3) perovskite and liquid is between 0.45 and 0.6, so
iron is not as incompatible with deep-mantle minerals as has been reported
previously. Calculated solid and melt density contrasts suggest that melt
generated at the core-mantle boundary should be buoyant, and hence should
segregate upwards. In the framework of the magma oceans induced by large
meteoritic impacts on early Earth, our results imply that the magma
crystallization should push the liquids towards the surface and form a deep solid
residue depleted in incompatible elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11294 
PMID: 22810700 


455. Nature. 2012 Jul 18;487(7407):349-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11230.

Dodecagonal tiling in mesoporous silica.

Xiao C(1), Fujita N, Miyasaka K, Sakamoto Y, Terasaki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials and Environmental Chemistry, Bezelii Center EXSELENT
on Porous Materials, Stockholm University, S-10691 Stockholm, Sweden.

Recent advances in the fabrication of quasicrystals in soft matter systems have
increased the length scales for quasicrystals into the mesoscale range (20 to 500
ångströms). Thus far, dendritic liquid crystals, ABC-star polymers, colloids and 
inorganic nanoparticles have been reported to yield quasicrystals. These
quasicrystals offer larger length scales than intermetallic quasicrystals (a few 
ångströms), thus potentially leading to optical applications through the
realization of a complete photonic bandgap induced via multiple scattering of
light waves in virtually all directions. However, the materials remain far from
structurally ideal, in contrast to their intermetallic counterparts, and fine
control over the structure through a self-organization process has yet to be
attained. Here we use the well-established self-assembly of surfactant micelles
to produce a new class of mesoporous silicas, which exhibit 12-fold (dodecagonal)
symmetry in both electron diffraction and morphology. Each particle reveals, in
the 12-fold cross-section, an analogue of dodecagonal quasicrystals in the centre
surrounded by 12 fans of crystalline domains in the peripheral part. The
quasicrystallinity has been verified by selected-area electron diffraction and
quantitative phason strain analyses on transmission electron microscope images
obtained from the central region. We argue that the structure forms through a
non-equilibrium growth process, wherein the competition between different
micellar configurations has a central role in tuning the structure. A simple
theoretical model successfully reproduces the observed features and thus
establishes a link between the formation process and the resulting structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11230 
PMID: 22810699 


456. Nature. 2012 Jul 18;487(7407):341-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11246.

How atomic nuclei cluster.

Ebran JP(1), Khan E, Nikšić T, Vretenar D.

Author information: 
(1)CEA/DAM/DIF, F-91297 Arpajon, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):309-10.

Nucleonic matter displays a quantum-liquid structure, but in some cases finite
nuclei behave like molecules composed of clusters of protons and neutrons.
Clustering is a recurrent feature in light nuclei, from beryllium to nickel.
Cluster structures are typically observed as excited states close to the
corresponding decay threshold; the origin of this phenomenon lies in the
effective nuclear interaction, but the detailed mechanism of clustering in nuclei
has not yet been fully understood. Here we use the theoretical framework of
energy-density functionals, encompassing both cluster and quantum liquid-drop
aspects of nuclei, to show that conditions for cluster formation can in part be
traced back to the depth of the confining nuclear potential. For the illustrative
example of neon-20, we show that the depth of the potential determines the energy
spacings between single-nucleon orbitals in deformed nuclei, the localization of 
the corresponding wavefunctions and, therefore, the degree of nucleonic density
clustering. Relativistic functionals, in particular, are characterized by deep
single-nucleon potentials. When compared to non-relativistic functionals that
yield similar ground-state properties (binding energy, deformation, radii), they 
predict the occurrence of much more pronounced cluster structures. More
generally, clustering is considered as a transitional phenomenon between
crystalline and quantum-liquid phases of fermionic systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11246 
PMID: 22810698 


457. Nature. 2012 Jul 18;487(7407):338-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11256.

High velocity dispersion in a rare grand-design spiral galaxy at redshift z =
2.18.

Law DR(1), Shapley AE, Steidel CC, Reddy NA, Christensen CR, Erb DK.

Author information: 
(1)Dunlap Institute for Astronomy & Astrophysics, University of Toronto, 50 St
George Street, Toronto M5S 3H4, Ontario, Canada. drlaw@di.utoronto.ca

Although grand-design spiral galaxies are relatively common in the local
Universe, only one has been spectroscopically confirmed to lie at redshift z > 2 
(HDFX 28; z = 2.011); and it may prove to be a major merger that simply resembles
a spiral in projection. The rarity of spirals has been explained as a result of
disks being dynamically 'hot' at z > 2 (refs 2-5), which may instead favour the
formation of commonly observed clumpy structures. Alternatively, current
instrumentation may simply not be sensitive enough to detect spiral structures
comparable to those in the modern Universe. At z < 2, the velocity dispersion of 
disks decreases, and spiral galaxies are more numerous by z ≈ 1 (refs 7, 13-15). 
Here we report observations of the grand-design spiral galaxy Q2343-BX442 at z = 
2.18. Spectroscopy of ionized gas shows that the disk is dynamically hot,
implying an uncertain origin for the spiral structure. The kinematics of the
galaxy are consistent with a thick disk undergoing a minor merger, which can
drive the formation of short-lived spiral structure. A duty cycle of <100 Myr for
such tidally induced spiral structure in a hot massive disk is consistent with
its rarity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11256 
PMID: 22810697 


458. Nature. 2012 Jul 18;487(7407):330-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11252.

Comprehensive molecular characterization of human colon and rectal cancer.

Cancer Genome Atlas Network.

Collaborators: Muzny DM, Bainbridge MN, Chang K, Dinh HH, Drummond JA, Fowler G, 
Kovar CL, Lewis LR, Morgan MB, Newsham IF, Reid JG, Santibanez J, Shinbrot E,
Trevino LR, Wu YQ, Wang M, Gunaratne P, Donehower LA, Creighton CJ, Wheeler DA,
Gibbs RA, Lawrence MS, Voet D, Jing R, Cibulskis K, Sivachenko A, Stojanov P,
McKenna A, Lander ES, Gabriel S, Getz G, Ding L, Fulton RS, Koboldt DC, Wylie T, 
Walker J, Dooling DJ, Fulton L, Delehaunty KD, Fronick CC, Demeter R, Mardis ER, 
Wilson RK, Chu A, Chun HJ, Mungall AJ, Pleasance E, Robertson A, Stoll D,
Balasundaram M, Birol I, Butterfield YS, Chuah E, Coope RJ, Dhalla N, Guin R,
Hirst C, Hirst M, Holt RA, Lee D, Li HI, Mayo M, Moore RA, Schein JE, Slobodan
JR, Tam A, Thiessen N, Varhol R, Zeng T, Zhao Y, Jones SJ, Marra MA, Bass AJ,
Ramos AH, Saksena G, Cherniack AD, Schumacher SE, Tabak B, Carter SL, Pho NH,
Nguyen H, Onofrio RC, Crenshaw A, Ardlie K, Beroukhim R, Winckler W, Getz G,
Meyerson M, Protopopov A, Zhang J, Hadjipanayis A, Lee E, Xi R, Yang L, Ren X,
Zhang H, Sathiamoorthy N, Shukla S, Chen PC, Haseley P, Xiao Y, Lee S, Seidman J,
Chin L, Park PJ, Kucherlapati R, Auman JT, Hoadley KA, Du Y, Wilkerson MD, Shi Y,
Liquori C, Meng S, Li L, Turman YJ, Topal MD, Tan D, Waring S, Buda E, Walsh J,
Jones CD, Mieczkowski PA, Singh D, Wu J, Gulabani A, Dolina P, Bodenheimer T,
Hoyle AP, Simons JV, Soloway M, Mose LE, Jefferys SR, Balu S, O'Connor BD, Prins 
JF, Chiang DY, Hayes D, Perou CM, Hinoue T, Weisenberger DJ, Maglinte DT, Pan F, 
Berman BP, Van Den Berg DJ, Shen H, Triche T Jr, Baylin SB, Laird PW, Getz G,
Noble M, Voet D, Saksena G, Gehlenborg N, DiCara D, Zhang J, Zhang H, Wu CJ, Liu 
SY, Shukla S, Lawrence MS, Zhou L, Sivachenko A, Lin P, Stojanov P, Jing R, Park 
RW, Nazaire MD, Robinson J, Thorvaldsdottir H, Mesirov J, Park PJ, Chin L,
Thorsson V, Reynolds SM, Bernard B, Kreisberg R, Lin J, Iype L, Bressler R,
Erkkilä T, Gundapuneni M, Liu Y, Norberg A, Robinson T, Yang D, Zhang W,
Shmulevich I, de Ronde JJ, Schultz N, Cerami E, Ciriello G, Goldberg AP, Gross B,
Jacobsen A, Gao J, Kaczkowski B, Sinha R, Aksoy B, Antipin Y, Reva B, Shen R,
Taylor BS, Chan TA, Ladanyi M, Sander C, Akbani R, Zhang N, Broom BM, Casasent T,
Unruh A, Wakefield C, Hamilton SR, Cason R, Baggerly KA, Weinstein JN, Haussler
D, Benz CC, Stuart JM, Benz SC, Sanborn J, Vaske CJ, Zhu J, Szeto C, Scott GK,
Yau C, Ng S, Goldstein T, Ellrott K, Collisson E, Cozen AE, Zerbino D, Wilks C,
Craft B, Spellman P, Penny R, Shelton T, Hatfield M, Morris S, Yena P, Shelton C,
Sherman M, Paulauskis J, Gastier-Foster JM, Bowen J, Ramirez NC, Black A, Pyatt
R, Wise L, White P, Bertagnolli M, Brown J, Chan TA, Chu GC, Czerwinski C,
Denstman F, Dhir R, Dörner A, Fuchs CS, Guillem JG, Iacocca M, Juhl H, Kaufman A,
Kohl B 3rd, Van Le X, Mariano MC, Medina EN, Meyers M, Nash GM, Paty PB, Petrelli
N, Rabeno B, Richards WG, Solit D, Swanson P, Temple L, Tepper JE, Thorp R,
Vakiani E, Weiser MR, Willis JE, Witkin G, Zeng Z, Zinner MJ, Zornig C, Jensen
MA, Sfeir R, Kahn AB, Chu AL, Kothiyal P, Wang Z, Snyder EE, Pontius J, Pihl TD, 
Ayala B, Backus M, Walton J, Whitmore J, Baboud J, Berton DL, Nicholls MC,
Srinivasan D, Raman R, Girshik S, Kigonya PA, Alonso S, Sanbhadti RN, Barletta
SP, Greene JM, Pot DA, Shaw KR, Dillon LA, Buetow K, Davidsen T, Demchok JA, Eley
G, Ferguson M, Fielding P, Schaefer C, Sheth M, Yang L, Guyer MS, Ozenberger BA, 
Palchik JD, Peterson J, Sofia HJ, Thomson E.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2013 Sep;145(3):686-8.

To characterize somatic alterations in colorectal carcinoma, we conducted a
genome-scale analysis of 276 samples, analysing exome sequence, DNA copy number, 
promoter methylation and messenger RNA and microRNA expression. A subset of these
samples (97) underwent low-depth-of-coverage whole-genome sequencing. In total,
16% of colorectal carcinomas were found to be hypermutated: three-quarters of
these had the expected high microsatellite instability, usually with
hypermethylation and MLH1 silencing, and one-quarter had somatic mismatch-repair 
gene and polymerase ε (POLE) mutations. Excluding the hypermutated cancers, colon
and rectum cancers were found to have considerably similar patterns of genomic
alteration. Twenty-four genes were significantly mutated, and in addition to the 
expected APC, TP53, SMAD4, PIK3CA and KRAS mutations, we found frequent mutations
in ARID1A, SOX9 and FAM123B. Recurrent copy-number alterations include
potentially drug-targetable amplifications of ERBB2 and newly discovered
amplification of IGF2. Recurrent chromosomal translocations include the fusion of
NAV2 and WNT pathway member TCF7L1. Integrative analyses suggest new markers for 
aggressive colorectal carcinoma and an important role for MYC-directed
transcriptional activation and repression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11252 
PMCID: PMC3401966
PMID: 22810696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 2012 Jul 18;487(7407):313-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11229.

Deep carbon export from a Southern Ocean iron-fertilized diatom bloom.

Smetacek V(1), Klaas C, Strass VH, Assmy P, Montresor M, Cisewski B, Savoye N,
Webb A, d'Ovidio F, Arrieta JM, Bathmann U, Bellerby R, Berg GM, Croot P,
Gonzalez S, Henjes J, Herndl GJ, Hoffmann LJ, Leach H, Losch M, Mills MM, Neill
C, Peeken I, Röttgers R, Sachs O, Sauter E, Schmidt MM, Schwarz J, Terbrüggen A, 
Wolf-Gladrow D.

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Am Handelshafen 12,
27570 Bremerhaven, Germany. victor.smetacek@awi.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 19;487(7407):305-6.

Fertilization of the ocean by adding iron compounds has induced diatom-dominated 
phytoplankton blooms accompanied by considerable carbon dioxide drawdown in the
ocean surface layer. However, because the fate of bloom biomass could not be
adequately resolved in these experiments, the timescales of carbon sequestration 
from the atmosphere are uncertain. Here we report the results of a five-week
experiment carried out in the closed core of a vertically coherent, mesoscale
eddy of the Antarctic Circumpolar Current, during which we tracked sinking
particles from the surface to the deep-sea floor. A large diatom bloom peaked in 
the fourth week after fertilization. This was followed by mass mortality of
several diatom species that formed rapidly sinking, mucilaginous aggregates of
entangled cells and chains. Taken together, multiple lines of evidence-although
each with important uncertainties-lead us to conclude that at least half the
bloom biomass sank far below a depth of 1,000 metres and that a substantial
portion is likely to have reached the sea floor. Thus, iron-fertilized diatom
blooms may sequester carbon for timescales of centuries in ocean bottom water and
for longer in the sediments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11229 
PMID: 22810695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):231-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11180.

Independent evolution of striated muscles in cnidarians and bilaterians.

Steinmetz PR(1), Kraus JE, Larroux C, Hammel JU, Amon-Hassenzahl A, Houliston E, 
Wörheide G, Nickel M, Degnan BM, Technau U.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Molecular Evolution and Development, Centre for Organismal
Systems Biology, University of Vienna, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):181-2.

Striated muscles are present in bilaterian animals (for example, vertebrates,
insects and annelids) and some non-bilaterian eumetazoans (that is, cnidarians
and ctenophores). The considerable ultrastructural similarity of striated muscles
between these animal groups is thought to reflect a common evolutionary origin.
Here we show that a muscle protein core set, including a type II myosin heavy
chain (MyHC) motor protein characteristic of striated muscles in vertebrates, was
already present in unicellular organisms before the origin of multicellular
animals. Furthermore, 'striated muscle' and 'non-muscle' myhc orthologues are
expressed differentially in two sponges, compatible with a functional
diversification before the origin of true muscles and the subsequent use of
striated muscle MyHC in fast-contracting smooth and striated muscle. Cnidarians
and ctenophores possess striated muscle myhc orthologues but lack crucial
components of bilaterian striated muscles, such as genes that code for titin and 
the troponin complex, suggesting the convergent evolution of striated muscles.
Consistently, jellyfish orthologues of a shared set of bilaterian Z-disc proteins
are not associated with striated muscles, but are instead expressed elsewhere or 
ubiquitously. The independent evolution of eumetazoan striated muscles through
the addition of new proteins to a pre-existing, ancestral contractile apparatus
may serve as a model for the evolution of complex animal cell types.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11180 
PMCID: PMC3398149
PMID: 22763458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):202-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11224.

A filament of dark matter between two clusters of galaxies.

Dietrich JP(1), Werner N, Clowe D, Finoguenov A, Kitching T, Miller L, Simionescu
A.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department and Michigan Center for Theoretical Physics, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1040, USA. jorgd@umich.edu

It is a firm prediction of the concordance cold-dark-matter cosmological model
that galaxy clusters occur at the intersection of large-scale structure
filaments. The thread-like structure of this 'cosmic web' has been traced by
galaxy redshift surveys for decades. More recently, the warm–hot intergalactic
medium (a sparse plasma with temperatures of 10(5) kelvin to 10(7) kelvin)
residing in low-redshift filaments has been observed in emission and absorption. 
However, a reliable direct detection of the underlying dark-matter skeleton,
which should contain more than half of all matter, has remained elusive, because 
earlier candidates for such detections were either falsified or suffered from low
signal-to-noise ratios and unphysical misalignments of dark and luminous matter. 
Here we report the detection of a dark-matter filament connecting the two main
components of the Abell 222/223 supercluster system from its weak gravitational
lensing signal, both in a non-parametric mass reconstruction and in parametric
model fits. This filament is coincident with an overdensity of galaxies and
diffuse, soft-X-ray emission, and contributes a mass comparable to that of an
additional galaxy cluster to the total mass of the supercluster. By combining
this result with X-ray observations, we can place an upper limit of 0.09 on the
hot gas fraction (the mass of X-ray-emitting gas divided by the total mass) in
the filament.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11224 
PMID: 22763438 


462. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11173.

An epigenetic silencing pathway controlling T helper 2 cell lineage commitment.

Allan RS(1), Zueva E, Cammas F, Schreiber HA, Masson V, Belz GT, Roche D, Maison 
C, Quivy JP, Almouzni G, Amigorena S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie Research Center, 26 rue d’Ulm, 75248 Paris Cedex 05, France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Aug;12(8):549.

During immune responses, naive CD4+ T cells differentiate into several T helper
(TH) cell subsets under the control of lineage-specifying genes. These subsets
(TH1, TH2 and TH17 cells and regulatory T cells) secrete distinct cytokines and
are involved in protection against different types of infection. Epigenetic
mechanisms are involved in the regulation of these developmental programs, and
correlations have been drawn between the levels of particular epigenetic marks
and the activity or silencing of specifying genes during differentiation.
Nevertheless, the functional relevance of the epigenetic pathways involved in TH 
cell subset differentiation and commitment is still unclear. Here we explore the 
role of the SUV39H1–H3K9me3–HP1α silencing pathway in the control of TH2 lineage 
stability. This pathway involves the histone methylase SUV39H1, which
participates in the trimethylation of histone H3 on lysine 9 (H3K9me3), a
modification that provides binding sites for heterochromatin protein 1α (HP1α)
and promotes transcriptional silencing. This pathway was initially associated
with heterochromatin formation and maintenance but can also contribute to the
regulation of euchromatic genes. We now propose that the SUV39H1–H3K9me3–HP1α
pathway participates in maintaining the silencing of TH1 loci, ensuring TH2
lineage stability. In TH2 cells that are deficient in SUV39H1, the ratio between 
trimethylated and acetylated H3K9 is impaired, and the binding of HP1α at the
promoters of silenced TH1 genes is reduced. Despite showing normal
differentiation, both SUV39H1-deficient TH2 cells and HP1α-deficient TH2 cells,
in contrast to wild-type cells, expressed TH1 genes when recultured under
conditions that drive differentiation into TH1 cells. In a mouse model of
TH2-driven allergic asthma, the chemical inhibition or loss of SUV39H1 skewed
T-cell responses towards TH1 responses and decreased the lung pathology. These
results establish a link between the SUV39H1–H3K9me3–HP1α pathway and the
stability of TH2 cells, and they identify potential targets for therapeutic
intervention in TH2-cell-mediated inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11173 
PMID: 22763435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):227-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11214.

Disentangling nestedness from models of ecological complexity.

James A(1), Pitchford JW, Plank MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomathematics Research Centre, University of Canterbury, Private Bag 4800,
Christchurch 8040, New Zealand. alex.james@canterbury.ac.nz

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):175-6.
    Nature. 2013 Aug 22;500(7463):E2-3.
    Nature. 2013 Aug 22;500(7463):E1-2.

Complex networks of interactions are ubiquitous and are particularly important in
ecological communities, in which large numbers of species exhibit negative (for
example, competition or predation) and positive (for example, mutualism)
interactions with one another. Nestedness in mutualistic ecological networks is
the tendency for ecological specialists to interact with a subset of species that
also interact with more generalist species. Recent mathematical and computational
analysis has suggested that such nestedness increases species richness. By
examining previous results and applying computational approaches to 59 empirical 
data sets representing mutualistic plant–pollinator networks, we show that this
statement is incorrect. A simpler metric—the number of mutualistic partners a
species has—is a much better predictor of individual species survival and hence, 
community persistence. Nestedness is, at best, a secondary covariate rather than 
a causative factor for biodiversity in mutualistic communities. Analysis of
complex networks should be accompanied by analysis of simpler, underpinning
mechanisms that drive multiple higher-order network properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11214 
PMID: 22722863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):223-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11146.

Birds have paedomorphic dinosaur skulls.

Bhullar BA(1), Marugán-Lobón J, Racimo F, Bever GS, Rowe TB, Norell MA, Abzhanov 
A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. bhartanjan.bhullar@gmail.com

The interplay of evolution and development has been at the heart of evolutionary 
theory for more than a century. Heterochrony—change in the timing or rate of
developmental events—has been implicated in the evolution of major vertebrate
lineages such as mammals, including humans. Birds are the most speciose land
vertebrates, with more than 10,000 living species representing a bewildering
array of ecologies. Their anatomy is radically different from that of other
vertebrates. The unique bird skull houses two highly specialized systems: the
sophisticated visual and neuromuscular coordination system allows flight
coordination and exploitation of diverse visual landscapes, and the astonishing
variations of the beak enable a wide range of avian lifestyles. Here we use a
geometric morphometric approach integrating developmental, neontological and
palaeontological data to show that the heterochronic process of paedomorphosis,
by which descendants resemble the juveniles of their ancestors, is responsible
for several major evolutionary transitions in the origin of birds. We analysed
the variability of a series of landmarks on all known theropod dinosaur skull
ontogenies as well as outgroups and birds. The first dimension of variability
captured ontogeny, indicating a conserved ontogenetic trajectory. The second
dimension accounted for phylogenetic change towards more bird-like dinosaurs.
Basally branching eumaniraptorans and avialans clustered with embryos of other
archosaurs, indicating paedomorphosis. Our results reveal at least four
paedomorphic episodes in the history of birds combined with localized
peramorphosis (development beyond the adult state of ancestors) in the beak.
Paedomorphic enlargement of the eyes and associated brain regions parallels the
enlargement of the nasal cavity and olfactory brain in mammals. This study can be
a model for investigations of heterochrony in evolutionary transitions,
illuminating the origin of adaptive features and inspiring studies of
developmental mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11146 
PMID: 22722850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):244-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11126.

A tumour suppressor network relying on the polyamine-hypusine axis.

Scuoppo C(1), Miething C, Lindqvist L, Reyes J, Ruse C, Appelmann I, Yoon S,
Krasnitz A, Teruya-Feldstein J, Pappin D, Pelletier J, Lowe SW.

Author information: 
(1)Watson School of Biological Sciences, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 
11724, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Aug;12(8):509.

Tumour suppressor genes encode a broad class of molecules whose mutational
attenuation contributes to malignant progression. In the canonical situation, the
tumour suppressor is completely inactivated through a two-hit process involving a
point mutation in one allele and chromosomal deletion of the other. Here, to
identify tumour suppressor genes in lymphoma, we screen a short hairpin RNA
library targeting genes deleted in human lymphomas. We functionally identify
those genes whose suppression promotes tumorigenesis in a mouse lymphoma model.
Of the nine tumour suppressors we identified, eight correspond to genes occurring
in three physically linked 'clusters', suggesting that the common occurrence of
large chromosomal deletions in human tumours reflects selective pressure to
attenuate multiple genes. Among the new tumour suppressors are adenosylmethionine
decarboxylase 1 (AMD1) and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A),
two genes associated with hypusine, a unique amino acid produced as a product of 
polyamine metabolism through a highly conserved pathway. Through a secondary
screen surveying the impact of all polyamine enzymes on tumorigenesis, we
establish the polyamine-hypusine axis as a new tumour suppressor network
regulating apoptosis. Unexpectedly, heterozygous deletions encompassing AMD1 and 
eIF5A often occur together in human lymphomas and co-suppression of both genes
promotes lymphomagenesis in mice. Thus, some tumour suppressor functions can be
disabled through a two-step process targeting different genes acting in the same 
pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11126 
PMCID: PMC3530829
PMID: 22722845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):239-43. doi: 10.1038/nature11125.

The mutational landscape of lethal castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Grasso CS(1), Wu YM, Robinson DR, Cao X, Dhanasekaran SM, Khan AP, Quist MJ, Jing
X, Lonigro RJ, Brenner JC, Asangani IA, Ateeq B, Chun SY, Siddiqui J, Sam L,
Anstett M, Mehra R, Prensner JR, Palanisamy N, Ryslik GA, Vandin F, Raphael BJ,
Kunju LP, Rhodes DR, Pienta KJ, Chinnaiyan AM, Tomlins SA.

Author information: 
(1)Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Asian J Androl. 2012 Nov;14(6):799-800.
    Cancer Biol Ther. 2013 May;14(5):399-400.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Jul;9(7):367.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2012 Jul;9(7):352.
    Asian J Androl. 2012 Nov;14(6):801-2.

Characterization of the prostate cancer transcriptome and genome has identified
chromosomal rearrangements and copy number gains and losses, including ETS gene
family fusions, PTEN loss and androgen receptor (AR) amplification, which drive
prostate cancer development and progression to lethal, metastatic
castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). However, less is known about the
role of mutations. Here we sequenced the exomes of 50 lethal, heavily pre-treated
metastatic CRPCs obtained at rapid autopsy (including three different foci from
the same patient) and 11 treatment-naive, high-grade localized prostate cancers. 
We identified low overall mutation rates even in heavily treated CRPCs (2.00 per 
megabase) and confirmed the monoclonal origin of lethal CRPC. Integrating exome
copy number analysis identified disruptions of CHD1 that define a subtype of ETS 
gene family fusion-negative prostate cancer. Similarly, we demonstrate that ETS2,
which is deleted in approximately one-third of CRPCs (commonly through
TMPRSS2:ERG fusions), is also deregulated through mutation. Furthermore, we
identified recurrent mutations in multiple chromatin- and histone-modifying
genes, including MLL2 (mutated in 8.6% of prostate cancers), and demonstrate
interaction of the MLL complex with the AR, which is required for AR-mediated
signalling. We also identified novel recurrent mutations in the AR collaborating 
factor FOXA1, which is mutated in 5 of 147 (3.4%) prostate cancers (both
untreated localized prostate cancer and CRPC), and showed that mutated FOXA1
represses androgen signalling and increases tumour growth. Proteins that
physically interact with the AR, such as the ERG gene fusion product, FOXA1,
MLL2, UTX (also known as KDM6A) and ASXL1 were found to be mutated in CRPC. In
summary, we describe the mutational landscape of a heavily treated metastatic
cancer, identify novel mechanisms of AR signalling deregulated in prostate
cancer, and prioritize candidates for future study.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11125 
PMCID: PMC3396711
PMID: 22722839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):235-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11206.

Genetic dissection of the circuit for hand dexterity in primates.

Kinoshita M(1), Matsui R, Kato S, Hasegawa T, Kasahara H, Isa K, Watakabe A,
Yamamori T, Nishimura Y, Alstermark B, Watanabe D, Kobayashi K, Isa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Physiology, National Institute for Physiological
Sciences, Myodaiji, Okazaki 444-8585, Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Aug;13(8):517.

It is generally accepted that the direct connection from the motor cortex to
spinal motor neurons is responsible for dexterous hand movements in primates.
However, the role of the 'phylogenetically older' indirect pathways from the
motor cortex to motor neurons, mediated by spinal interneurons, remains elusive. 
Here we used a novel double-infection technique to interrupt the transmission
through the propriospinal neurons (PNs), which act as a relay of the indirect
pathway in macaque monkeys (Macaca fuscata and Macaca mulatta). The PNs were
double infected by injection of a highly efficient retrograde gene-transfer
vector into their target area and subsequent injection of adeno-associated viral 
vector at the location of cell somata. This method enabled reversible expression 
of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged tetanus neurotoxin, thereby permitting 
the selective and temporal blockade of the motor cortex–PN–motor neuron pathway. 
This treatment impaired reach and grasp movements, revealing a critical role for 
the PN-mediated pathway in the control of hand dexterity. Anti-GFP
immunohistochemistry visualized the cell bodies and axonal trajectories of the
blocked PNs, which confirmed their anatomical connection to motor neurons. This
pathway-selective and reversible technique for blocking neural transmission does 
not depend on cell-specific promoters or transgenic techniques, and is a new and 
powerful tool for functional dissection in system-level neuroscience studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11206 
PMID: 22722837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):254-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11171.

Rsx is a metatherian RNA with Xist-like properties in X-chromosome inactivation.

Grant J(1), Mahadevaiah SK, Khil P, Sangrithi MN, Royo H, Duckworth J, McCarrey
JR, VandeBerg JL, Renfree MB, Taylor W, Elgar G, Camerini-Otero RD, Gilchrist MJ,
Turner JM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London
NW71AA, UK.

In female (XX) mammals, one of the two X chromosomes is inactivated to ensure an 
equal dose of X-linked genes with males (XY). X-chromosome inactivation in
eutherian mammals is mediated by the non-coding RNA Xist. Xist is not found in
metatherians (marsupials), and how X-chromosome inactivation is initiated in
these mammals has been the subject of speculation for decades. Using the
marsupial Monodelphis domestica, here we identify Rsx (RNA-on-the-silent X), an
RNA that has properties consistent with a role in X-chromosome inactivation. Rsx 
is a large, repeat-rich RNA that is expressed only in females and is transcribed 
from, and coats, the inactive X chromosome. In female germ cells, in which both X
chromosomes are active, Rsx is silenced, linking Rsx expression to X-chromosome
inactivation and reactivation. Integration of an Rsx transgene on an autosome in 
mouse embryonic stem cells leads to gene silencing in cis. Our findings permit
comparative studies of X-chromosome inactivation in mammals and pose questions
about the mechanisms by which X-chromosome inactivation is achieved in
eutherians.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11171 
PMCID: PMC3484893
PMID: 22722828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):219-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11257.

Deglacial rapid sea level rises caused by ice-sheet saddle collapses.

Gregoire LJ(1), Payne AJ, Valdes PJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Geographical Sciences, University of Bristol, University Road,
Bristol BS8 1SS, UK. lauren.gregoire@bristol.ac.uk

The last deglaciation (21 to 7 thousand years ago) was punctuated by several
abrupt meltwater pulses, which sometimes caused noticeable climate change. Around
14 thousand years ago, meltwater pulse 1A (MWP-1A), the largest of these events, 
produced a sea level rise of 14-18 metres over 350 years. Although this enormous 
surge of water certainly originated from retreating ice sheets, there is no
consensus on the geographical source or underlying physical mechanisms governing 
the rapid sea level rise. Here we present an ice-sheet modelling simulation in
which the separation of the Laurentide and Cordilleran ice sheets in North
America produces a meltwater pulse corresponding to MWP-1A. Another meltwater
pulse is produced when the Labrador and Baffin ice domes around Hudson Bay
separate, which could be associated with the '8,200-year' event, the most
pronounced abrupt climate event of the past nine thousand years. For both
modelled pulses, the saddle between the two ice domes becomes subject to surface 
melting because of a general surface lowering caused by climate warming. The
melting then rapidly accelerates as the saddle between the two domes gets lower, 
producing nine metres of sea level rise over 500 years. This mechanism of an ice 
'saddle collapse' probably explains MWP-1A and the 8,200-year event and sheds
light on the consequences of these events on climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11257 
PMID: 22785319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):214-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11223.

Synthetic homeostatic materials with chemo-mechano-chemical self-regulation.

He X(1), Aizenberg M, Kuksenok O, Zarzar LD, Shastri A, Balazs AC, Aizenberg J.

Author information: 
(1)School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Living organisms have unique homeostatic abilities, maintaining tight control of 
their local environment through interconversions of chemical and mechanical
energy and self-regulating feedback loops organized hierarchically across many
length scales. In contrast, most synthetic materials are incapable of continuous 
self-monitoring and self-regulating behaviour owing to their limited
single-directional chemomechanical or mechanochemical modes. Applying the concept
of homeostasis to the design of autonomous materials would have substantial
impacts in areas ranging from medical implants that help stabilize bodily
functions to 'smart' materials that regulate energy usage. Here we present a
versatile strategy for creating self-regulating, self-powered, homeostatic
materials capable of precisely tailored chemo-mechano-chemical feedback loops on 
the nano- or microscale. We design a bilayer system with hydrogel-supported,
catalyst-bearing microstructures, which are separated from a reactant-containing 
'nutrient' layer. Reconfiguration of the gel in response to a stimulus induces
the reversible actuation of the microstructures into and out of the nutrient
layer, and serves as a highly precise 'on/off' switch for chemical reactions. We 
apply this design to trigger organic, inorganic and biochemical reactions that
undergo reversible, repeatable cycles synchronized with the motion of the
microstructures and the driving external chemical stimulus. By exploiting a
continuous feedback loop between various exothermic catalytic reactions in the
nutrient layer and the mechanical action of the temperature-responsive gel, we
then create exemplary autonomous, self-sustained homeostatic systems that
maintain a user-defined parameter--temperature--in a narrow range. The
experimental results are validated using computational modelling that
qualitatively captures the essential features of the self-regulating behaviour
and provides additional criteria for the optimization of the homeostatic
function, subsequently confirmed experimentally. This design is highly
customizable owing to the broad choice of chemistries, tunable mechanics and its 
physical simplicity, and may lead to a variety of applications in autonomous
systems with chemo-mechano-chemical transduction at their core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11223 
PMID: 22785318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11221.

Giant spin Seebeck effect in a non-magnetic material.

Jaworski CM(1), Myers RC, Johnston-Halperin E, Heremans JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus,
Ohio 43210, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):180-1.

The spin Seebeck effect is observed when a thermal gradient applied to a
spin-polarized material leads to a spatially varying transverse spin current in
an adjacent non-spin-polarized material, where it gets converted into a
measurable voltage. It has been previously observed with a magnitude of
microvolts per kelvin in magnetically ordered materials, ferromagnetic metals,
semiconductors and insulators. Here we describe a signal in a non-magnetic
semiconductor (InSb) that has the hallmarks of being produced by the spin Seebeck
effect, but is three orders of magnitude larger (millivolts per kelvin). We refer
to the phenomenon that produces it as the giant spin Seebeck effect. Quantizing
magnetic fields spin-polarize conduction electrons in semiconductors by means of 
Zeeman splitting, which spin-orbit coupling amplifies by a factor of ∼25 in InSb.
We propose that the giant spin Seebeck effect is mediated by phonon-electron
drag, which changes the electrons' momentum and directly modifies the
spin-splitting energy through spin-orbit interactions. Owing to the
simultaneously strong phonon-electron drag and spin-orbit coupling in InSb, the
magnitude of the giant spin Seebeck voltage is comparable to the largest known
classical thermopower values.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11221 
PMID: 22785317 


472. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):205-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11187.

Impact-activated solidification of dense suspensions via dynamic jamming fronts.

Waitukaitis SR(1), Jaeger HM.

Author information: 
(1)James Franck Institute and Department of Physics, The University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. swaitukaitis@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):174-5.

Although liquids typically flow around intruding objects, a counterintuitive
phenomenon occurs in dense suspensions of micrometre-sized particles: they become
liquid-like when perturbed lightly, but harden when driven strongly. Rheological 
experiments have investigated how such thickening arises under shear, and linked 
it to hydrodynamic interactions or granular dilation. However, neither of these
mechanisms alone can explain the ability of suspensions to generate very large,
positive normal stresses under impact. To illustrate the phenomenon, such
stresses can be large enough to allow a person to run across a suspension without
sinking, and far exceed the upper limit observed under shear or extension. Here
we show that these stresses originate from an impact-generated solidification
front that transforms an initially compressible particle matrix into a rapidly
growing jammed region, ultimately leading to extraordinary amounts of momentum
absorption. Using high-speed videography, embedded force sensing and X-ray
imaging, we capture the detailed dynamics of this process as it decelerates a
metal rod hitting a suspension of cornflour (cornstarch) in water. We develop a
model for the dynamic solidification and its effect on the surrounding suspension
that reproduces the observed behaviour quantitatively. Our findings suggest that 
prior interpretations of the impact resistance as dominated by shear thickening
need to be revisited.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11187 
PMID: 22785316 


473. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):196-201. doi: 10.1038/nature11181.

Watching DNA polymerase η make a phosphodiester bond.

Nakamura T(1), Zhao Y, Yamagata Y, Hua YJ, Yang W.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 12;487(7406):177-8.

DNA synthesis has been extensively studied, but the chemical reaction itself has 
not been visualized. Here we follow the course of phosphodiester bond formation
using time-resolved X-ray crystallography. Native human DNA polymerase η, DNA and
dATP were co-crystallized at pH 6.0 without Mg(2+). The polymerization reaction
was initiated by exposing crystals to 1 mM Mg(2+) at pH 7.0, and stopped by
freezing at desired time points for structural analysis. The substrates and two
Mg(2+) ions are aligned within 40 s, but the bond formation is not evident until 
80 s. From 80 to 300 s structures show a mixture of decreasing substrate and
increasing product of the nucleotidyl-transfer reaction. Transient electron
densities indicate that deprotonation and an accompanying C2'-endo to C3'-endo
conversion of the nucleophile 3'-OH are rate limiting. A third Mg(2+) ion, which 
arrives with the new bond and stabilizes the intermediate state, may be an
unappreciated feature of the two-metal-ion mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11181 
PMCID: PMC3397672
PMID: 22785315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):190-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11236.

Accurate whole-genome sequencing and haplotyping from 10 to 20 human cells.

Peters BA(1), Kermani BG, Sparks AB, Alferov O, Hong P, Alexeev A, Jiang Y, Dahl 
F, Tang YT, Haas J, Robasky K, Zaranek AW, Lee JH, Ball MP, Peterson JE, Perazich
H, Yeung G, Liu J, Chen L, Kennemer MI, Pothuraju K, Konvicka K, Tsoupko-Sitnikov
M, Pant KP, Ebert JC, Nilsen GB, Baccash J, Halpern AL, Church GM, Drmanac R.

Author information: 
(1)Complete Genomics, Inc., 2071 Stierlin Court, Mountain View, California 94043,
USA. bpeters@completegenomics.com

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Sep;13(9):598.

Recent advances in whole-genome sequencing have brought the vision of personal
genomics and genomic medicine closer to reality. However, current methods lack
clinical accuracy and the ability to describe the context (haplotypes) in which
genome variants co-occur in a cost-effective manner. Here we describe a low-cost 
DNA sequencing and haplotyping process, long fragment read (LFR) technology,
which is similar to sequencing long single DNA molecules without cloning or
separation of metaphase chromosomes. In this study, ten LFR libraries were made
using only ∼100 picograms of human DNA per sample. Up to 97% of the heterozygous 
single nucleotide variants were assembled into long haplotype contigs. Removal of
false positive single nucleotide variants not phased by multiple LFR haplotypes
resulted in a final genome error rate of 1 in 10 megabases. Cost-effective and
accurate genome sequencing and haplotyping from 10-20 human cells, as
demonstrated here, will enable comprehensive genetic studies and diverse clinical
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11236 
PMCID: PMC3397394
PMID: 22785314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2012 Jul 11;487(7406):183-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11160.

Anhedonia requires MC4R-mediated synaptic adaptations in nucleus accumbens.

Lim BK(1), Huang KW, Grueter BA, Rothwell PE, Malenka RC.

Author information: 
(1)Nancy Pritzker Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences,
Stanford University School of Medicine, 265 Campus Drive, Stanford, California
94305, USA.

Comment in
    Neuron. 2012 Aug 9;75(3):360-2.

Chronic stress is a strong diathesis for depression in humans and is used to
generate animal models of depression. It commonly leads to several major symptoms
of depression, including dysregulated feeding behaviour, anhedonia and
behavioural despair. Although hypotheses defining the neural pathophysiology of
depression have been proposed, the critical synaptic adaptations in key brain
circuits that mediate stress-induced depressive symptoms remain poorly
understood. Here we show that chronic stress in mice decreases the strength of
excitatory synapses on D1 dopamine receptor-expressing nucleus accumbens medium
spiny neurons owing to activation of the melanocortin 4 receptor. Stress-elicited
increases in behavioural measurements of anhedonia, but not increases in
measurements of behavioural despair, are prevented by blocking these melanocortin
4 receptor-mediated synaptic changes in vivo. These results establish that
stress-elicited anhedonia requires a neuropeptide-triggered, cell-type-specific
synaptic adaptation in the nucleus accumbens and that distinct circuit
adaptations mediate other major symptoms of stress-elicited depression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11160 
PMCID: PMC3397405
PMID: 22785313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11189.

Direct and highly regioselective and enantioselective allylation of β-diketones.

Chalifoux WA(1), Reznik SK, Leighton JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):48-9.

The enantioselective allylation of ketones is a problem of fundamental importance
in asymmetric reaction design, especially given that only a very small number of 
methods can generate tertiary carbinols. Despite the vast amount of attention
that synthetic chemists have given to this problem, success has generally been
limited to just a few simple ketone types. A method for the selective allylation 
of functionally complex ketones would greatly increase the utility of ketone
allylation methods in the chemical synthesis of important targets. Here we
describe the operationally simple, direct, regioselective and enantioselective
allylation of β-diketones. The strong tendency of β-diketones to act as
nucleophilic species was overcome by using their enol form to provide the
necessary Brønsted-acid activation. This reaction significantly expands the pool 
of enantiomerically enriched and functionally complex tertiary carbinols that may
be easily accessed. It also overturns more than a century of received wisdom
regarding the reactivity of β-diketones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11189 
PMCID: PMC3393786
PMID: 22763452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11185.

The diet of Australopithecus sediba.

Henry AG(1), Ungar PS, Passey BH, Sponheimer M, Rossouw L, Bamford M, Sandberg P,
de Ruiter DJ, Berger L.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Foods and Hominin Dietary Ecology Research Group, Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
amanda_henry@eva.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):42-3.

Specimens of Australopithecus sediba from the site of Malapa, South Africa
(dating from approximately 2 million years (Myr) ago) present a mix of primitive 
and derived traits that align the taxon with other Australopithecus species and
with early Homo. Although much of the available cranial and postcranial material 
of Au. sediba has been described, its feeding ecology has not been investigated. 
Here we present results from the first extraction of plant phytoliths from dental
calculus of an early hominin. We also consider stable carbon isotope and dental
microwear texture data for Au. sediba in light of new palaeoenvironmental
evidence. The two individuals examined consumed an almost exclusive C(3) diet
that probably included harder foods, and both dicotyledons (for example, tree
leaves, fruits, wood and bark) and monocotyledons (for example, grasses and
sedges). Like Ardipithecus ramidus (approximately 4.4 Myr ago) and modern savanna
chimpanzees, Au. sediba consumed C(3) foods in preference to widely available
C(4) resources. The inferred consumption of C(3) monocotyledons, and wood or
bark, increases the known variety of early hominin foods. The overall dietary
pattern of these two individuals contrasts with available data for other hominins
in the region and elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11185 
PMID: 22763449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):64-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11220.

Biophysical mechanism of T-cell receptor triggering in a reconstituted system.

James JR(1), Vale RD.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cellular and Molecular
Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, 600 16th Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

A T-cell-mediated immune response is initiated by the T-cell receptor (TCR)
interacting with peptide-bound major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) on an
infected cell. The mechanism by which this interaction triggers intracellular
phosphorylation of the TCR, which lacks a kinase domain, remains poorly
understood. Here, we have introduced the TCR and associated signalling molecules 
into a non-immune cell and reconstituted ligand-specific signalling when these
cells are conjugated with antigen-presenting cells. We show that signalling
requires the differential segregation of a phosphatase and kinase in the plasma
membrane. An artificial, chemically controlled receptor system generates the same
effect as TCR–pMHC, demonstrating that the binding energy of an extracellular
protein–protein interaction can drive the spatial segregation of membrane
proteins without a transmembrane conformational change. This general mechanism
may extend to other receptors that rely on extrinsic kinases, including, as we
demonstrate, chimaeric antigen receptors being developed for cancer
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11220 
PMCID: PMC3393772
PMID: 22763440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11253.

Gate-tuning of graphene plasmons revealed by infrared nano-imaging.

Fei Z(1), Rodin AS, Andreev GO, Bao W, McLeod AS, Wagner M, Zhang LM, Zhao Z,
Thiemens M, Dominguez G, Fogler MM, Castro Neto AH, Lau CN, Keilmann F, Basov DN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Surface plasmons are collective oscillations of electrons in metals or
semiconductors that enable confinement and control of electromagnetic energy at
subwavelength scales. Rapid progress in plasmonics has largely relied on advances
in device nano-fabrication, whereas less attention has been paid to the tunable
properties of plasmonic media. One such medium--graphene--is amenable to
convenient tuning of its electronic and optical properties by varying the applied
voltage. Here, using infrared nano-imaging, we show that common
graphene/SiO(2)/Si back-gated structures support propagating surface plasmons.
The wavelength of graphene plasmons is of the order of 200 nanometres at
technologically relevant infrared frequencies, and they can propagate several
times this distance. We have succeeded in altering both the amplitude and the
wavelength of these plasmons by varying the gate voltage. Using plasmon
interferometry, we investigated losses in graphene by exploring real-space
profiles of plasmon standing waves formed between the tip of our nano-probe and
the edges of the samples. Plasmon dissipation quantified through this analysis is
linked to the exotic electrodynamics of graphene. Standard plasmonic figures of
merit of our tunable graphene devices surpass those of common metal-based
structures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11253 
PMID: 22722866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11225.

Dietary-fat-induced taurocholic acid promotes pathobiont expansion and colitis in
Il10-/- mice.

Devkota S(1), Wang Y, Musch MW, Leone V, Fehlner-Peach H, Nadimpalli A,
Antonopoulos DA, Jabri B, Chang EB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Gastroenterology, The University of
Chicago, Knapp Center for Biomedical Discovery, 900 East 57th Street, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2013 Apr;144(4):844-6.
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):47-8.

The composite human microbiome of Western populations has probably changed over
the past century, brought on by new environmental triggers that often have a
negative impact on human health. Here we show that consumption of a diet high in 
saturated (milk-derived) fat, but not polyunsaturated (safflower oil) fat,
changes the conditions for microbial assemblage and promotes the expansion of a
low-abundance, sulphite-reducing pathobiont, Bilophila wadsworthia. This was
associated with a pro-inflammatory T helper type 1 (T(H)1) immune response and
increased incidence of colitis in genetically susceptible Il10(−/−), but not
wild-type mice. These effects are mediated by milk-derived-fat-promoted taurine
conjugation of hepatic bile acids, which increases the availability of organic
sulphur used by sulphite-reducing microorganisms like B. wadsworthia. When mice
were fed a low-fat diet supplemented with taurocholic acid, but not with
glycocholic acid, for example, a bloom of B. wadsworthia and development of
colitis were observed in Il10(−/−) mice. Together these data show that dietary
fats, by promoting changes in host bile acid composition, can markedly alter
conditions for gut microbial assemblage, resulting in dysbiosis that can perturb 
immune homeostasis. The data provide a plausible mechanistic basis by which
Western-type diets high in certain saturated fats might increase the prevalence
of complex immune-mediated diseases like inflammatory bowel disease in
genetically susceptible hosts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11225 
PMCID: PMC3393783
PMID: 22722865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):77-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11254.

Optical nano-imaging of gate-tunable graphene plasmons.

Chen J(1), Badioli M, Alonso-González P, Thongrattanasiri S, Huth F, Osmond J,
Spasenović M, Centeno A, Pesquera A, Godignon P, Elorza AZ, Camara N, García de
Abajo FJ, Hillenbrand R, Koppens FH.

Author information: 
(1)CIC nanoGUNE Consolider, 20018 Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.

The ability to manipulate optical fields and the energy flow of light is central 
to modern information and communication technologies, as well as quantum
information processing schemes. However, because photons do not possess charge, a
way of controlling them efficiently by electrical means has so far proved
elusive. A promising way to achieve electric control of light could be through
plasmon polaritons—coupled excitations of photons and charge carriers—in
graphene. In this two-dimensional sheet of carbon atoms, it is expected that
plasmon polaritons and their associated optical fields can readily be tuned
electrically by varying the graphene carrier density. Although evidence of
optical graphene plasmon resonances has recently been obtained spectroscopically,
no experiments so far have directly resolved propagating plasmons in real space. 
Here we launch and detect propagating optical plasmons in tapered graphene
nanostructures using near-field scattering microscopy with infrared excitation
light. We provide real-space images of plasmon fields, and find that the
extracted plasmon wavelength is very short—more than 40 times smaller than the
wavelength of illumination. We exploit this strong optical field confinement to
turn a graphene nanostructure into a tunable resonant plasmonic cavity with
extremely small mode volume. The cavity resonance is controlled in situ by gating
the graphene, and in particular, complete switching on and off of the plasmon
modes is demonstrated, thus paving the way towards graphene-based optical
transistors. This successful alliance between nanoelectronics and nano-optics
enables the development of active subwavelength-scale optics and a plethora of
nano-optoelectronic devices and functionalities, such as tunable metamaterials,
nanoscale optical processing, and strongly enhanced light–matter interactions for
quantum devices and biosensing applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11254 
PMID: 22722861 


482. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):57-63. doi: 10.1038/nature11244.

Embryonic stem cell potency fluctuates with endogenous retrovirus activity.

Macfarlan TS(1), Gifford WD, Driscoll S, Lettieri K, Rowe HM, Bonanomi D, Firth
A, Singer O, Trono D, Pfaff SL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Gene Expression Laboratory, The Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North Torrey Pines, La Jolla, California 
92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):43-5.

Embryonic stem (ES) cells are derived from blastocyst-stage embryos and are
thought to be functionally equivalent to the inner cell mass, which lacks the
ability to produce all extraembryonic tissues. Here we identify a rare transient 
cell population within mouse ES and induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell cultures 
that expresses high levels of transcripts found in two-cell (2C) embryos in which
the blastomeres are totipotent. We genetically tagged these 2C-like ES cells and 
show that they lack the inner cell mass pluripotency proteins Oct4 (also known as
Pou5f1), Sox2 and Nanog, and have acquired the ability to contribute to both
embryonic and extraembryonic tissues. We show that nearly all ES cells cycle in
and out of this privileged state, which is partially controlled by
histone-modifying enzymes. Transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic analyses
showed that many 2C transcripts are initiated from long terminal repeats derived 
from endogenous retroviruses, suggesting this foreign sequence has helped to
drive cell-fate regulation in placental mammals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11244 
PMCID: PMC3395470
PMID: 22722858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):51-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11129.

Neural population dynamics during reaching.

Churchland MM(1), Cunningham JP, Kaufman MT, Foster JD, Nuyujukian P, Ryu SI,
Shenoy KV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Kavli Institute for Brain Science, David Mahoney
Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA.
mc3502@columbia.edu

Most theories of motor cortex have assumed that neural activity represents
movement parameters. This view derives from what is known about primary visual
cortex, where neural activity represents patterns of light. Yet it is unclear how
well the analogy between motor and visual cortex holds. Single-neuron responses
in motor cortex are complex, and there is marked disagreement regarding which
movement parameters are represented. A better analogy might be with other motor
systems, where a common principle is rhythmic neural activity. Here we find that 
motor cortex responses during reaching contain a brief but strong oscillatory
component, something quite unexpected for a non-periodic behaviour. Oscillation
amplitude and phase followed naturally from the preparatory state, suggesting a
mechanistic role for preparatory neural activity. These results demonstrate an
unexpected yet surprisingly simple structure in the population response. This
underlying structure explains many of the confusing features of individual neural
responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11129 
PMCID: PMC3393826
PMID: 22722855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):70-73. doi: 10.1038/nature11177.

The signature of the first stars in atomic hydrogen at redshift 20.

Visbal E(1), Barkana R, Fialkov A, Tseliakhovich D, Hirata CM.

Author information: 
(1)Jefferson Laboratory of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138, USA. evisbal@fas.harvard.edu

Dark and baryonic matter moved at different velocities in the early Universe,
which strongly suppressed star formation in some regions. This was estimated to
imprint a large-scale fluctuation signal of about two millikelvin in the
21-centimetre spectral line of atomic hydrogen associated with stars at a
redshift of 20, although this estimate ignored the critical contribution of gas
heating due to X-rays and major enhancements of the suppression. A large velocity
difference reduces the abundance of haloes and requires the first stars to form
in haloes of about a million solar masses, substantially greater than previously 
expected. Here we report a simulation of the distribution of the first stars at
redshift 20 (cosmic age of around 180 million years), incorporating all these
ingredients within a 400-megaparsec box. We find that the 21-centimetre hydrogen 
signature of these stars is an enhanced (ten millikelvin) fluctuation signal on
the hundred-megaparsec scale, characterized by a flat power spectrum with
prominent baryon acoustic oscillations. The required sensitivity to see this
signal is achievable with an integration time of a thousand hours with an
instrument like the Murchison Wide-field Array or the Low Frequency Array but
designed to operate in the range of 50-100 megahertz.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11177 
PMID: 22722853 


485. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):94-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11041.

Butterfly genome reveals promiscuous exchange of mimicry adaptations among
species.

Heliconius Genome Consortium.

Collaborators: Dasmahapatra KK, Walters JR, Briscoe AD, Davey JW, Whibley A,
Nadeau NJ, Zimin AV, Hughes DS, Ferguson LC, Martin SH, Salazar C, Lewis JJ,
Adler S, Ahn SJ, Baker DA, Baxter SW, Chamberlain NL, Chauhan R, Counterman BA,
Dalmay T, Gilbert LE, Gordon K, Heckel DG, Hines HM, Hoff KJ, Holland PW,
Jacquin-Joly E, Jiggins FM, Jones RT, Kapan DD, Kersey P, Lamas G, Lawson D,
Mapleson D, Maroja LS, Martin A, Moxon S, Palmer WJ, Papa R, Papanicolaou A,
Pauchet Y, Ray DA, Rosser N, Salzberg SL, Supple MA, Surridge A, Tenger-Trolander
A, Vogel H, Wilkinson PA, Wilson D, Yorke JA, Yuan F, Balmuth AL, Eland C, Gharbi
K, Thomson M, Gibbs RA, Han Y, Jayaseelan JC, Kovar C, Mathew T, Muzny DM, Ongeri
F, Pu LL, Qu J, Thornton RL, Worley KC, Wu YQ, Linares M, Blaxter ML,
ffrench-Constant RH, Joron M, Kronforst MR, Mullen SP, Reed RD, Scherer SE,
Richards S, Mallet J, McMillan W, Jiggins CD.

The evolutionary importance of hybridization and introgression has long been
debated. Hybrids are usually rare and unfit, but even infrequent hybridization
can aid adaptation by transferring beneficial traits between species. Here we use
genomic tools to investigate introgression in Heliconius, a rapidly radiating
genus of neotropical butterflies widely used in studies of ecology, behaviour,
mimicry and speciation. We sequenced the genome of Heliconius melpomene and
compared it with other taxa to investigate chromosomal evolution in Lepidoptera
and gene flow among multiple Heliconius species and races. Among 12,669 predicted
genes, biologically important expansions of families of chemosensory and Hox
genes are particularly noteworthy. Chromosomal organization has remained broadly 
conserved since the Cretaceous period, when butterflies split from the Bombyx
(silkmoth) lineage. Using genomic resequencing, we show hybrid exchange of genes 
between three co-mimics, Heliconius melpomene, Heliconius timareta and Heliconius
elevatus, especially at two genomic regions that control mimicry pattern. We
infer that closely related Heliconius species exchange protective colour-pattern 
genes promiscuously, implying that hybridization has an important role in
adaptive radiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11041 
PMCID: PMC3398145
PMID: 22722851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):114-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11043.

SIRT7 links H3K18 deacetylation to maintenance of oncogenic transformation.

Barber MF(1), Michishita-Kioi E, Xi Y, Tasselli L, Kioi M, Moqtaderi Z, Tennen
RI, Paredes S, Young NL, Chen K, Struhl K, Garcia BA, Gozani O, Li W, Chua KF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2012 Jun 12;21(6):719-21.

Sirtuin proteins regulate diverse cellular pathways that influence genomic
stability, metabolism and ageing. SIRT7 is a mammalian sirtuin whose biochemical 
activity, molecular targets and physiological functions have been unclear. Here
we show that SIRT7 is an NAD(+)-dependent H3K18Ac (acetylated lysine 18 of
histone H3) deacetylase that stabilizes the transformed state of cancer cells.
Genome-wide binding studies reveal that SIRT7 binds to promoters of a specific
set of gene targets, where it deacetylates H3K18Ac and promotes transcriptional
repression. The spectrum of SIRT7 target genes is defined in part by its
interaction with the cancer-associated E26 transformed specific (ETS)
transcription factor ELK4, and comprises numerous genes with links to tumour
suppression. Notably, selective hypoacetylation of H3K18Ac has been linked to
oncogenic transformation, and in patients is associated with aggressive tumour
phenotypes and poor prognosis. We find that deacetylation of H3K18Ac by SIRT7 is 
necessary for maintaining essential features of human cancer cells, including
anchorage-independent growth and escape from contact inhibition. Moreover, SIRT7 
is necessary for a global hypoacetylation of H3K18Ac associated with cellular
transformation by the viral oncoprotein E1A. Finally, SIRT7 depletion markedly
reduces the tumorigenicity of human cancer cell xenografts in mice. Together, our
work establishes SIRT7 as a highly selective H3K18Ac deacetylase and demonstrates
a pivotal role for SIRT7 in chromatin regulation, cellular transformation
programs and tumour formation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11043 
PMCID: PMC3412143
PMID: 22722849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11149.

Programmable single-cell mammalian biocomputers.

Ausländer S(1), Ausländer D, Müller M, Wieland M, Fussenegger M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, Eidgenössische Technische
Hochschule Zürich, Mattenstrasse 26, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.

Synthetic biology has advanced the design of standardized control devices that
program cellular functions and metabolic activities in living organisms. Rational
interconnection of these synthetic switches resulted in increasingly complex
designer networks that execute input-triggered genetic instructions with
precision, robustness and computational logic reminiscent of electronic circuits.
Using trigger-controlled transcription factors, which independently control gene 
expression, and RNA-binding proteins that inhibit the translation of transcripts 
harbouring specific RNA target motifs, we have designed a set of synthetic
transcription–translation control devices that could be rewired in a
plug-and-play manner. Here we show that these combinatorial circuits integrated a
two-molecule input and performed digital computations with NOT, AND, NAND and
N-IMPLY expression logic in single mammalian cells. Functional interconnection of
two N-IMPLY variants resulted in bitwise intracellular XOR operations, and a
combinatorial arrangement of three logic gates enabled independent cells to
perform programmable half-subtractor and half-adder calculations. Individual
mammalian cells capable of executing basic molecular arithmetic functions
isolated or coordinated to metabolic activities in a predictable, precise and
robust manner may provide new treatment strategies and bio-electronic interfaces 
in future gene-based and cell-based therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11149 
PMID: 22722847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature11081.

Compartmentalized calcium dynamics in a C. elegans interneuron encode head
movement.

Hendricks M(1), Ha H, Maffey N, Zhang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

The confinement of neuronal activity to specific subcellular regions is a
mechanism for expanding the computational properties of neurons. Although the
circuit organization underlying compartmentalized activity has been studied in
several systems, its cellular basis is still unknown. Here we characterize
compartmentalized activity in Caenorhabditis elegans RIA interneurons, which have
multiple reciprocal connections to head motor neurons and receive input from
sensory pathways. We show that RIA spatially encodes head movement on a
subcellular scale through axonal compartmentalization. This subcellular axonal
activity is dependent on acetylcholine release from head motor neurons and is
simultaneously present and additive with glutamate-dependent globally
synchronized activity evoked by sensory inputs. Postsynaptically, the muscarinic 
acetylcholine receptor GAR-3 acts in RIA to compartmentalize axonal activity
through the mobilization of intracellular calcium stores. The compartmentalized
activity functions independently of the synchronized activity to modulate
locomotory behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11081 
PMCID: PMC3393794
PMID: 22722842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):119-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11155.

SbsB structure and lattice reconstruction unveil Ca2+ triggered S-layer assembly.

Baranova E(1), Fronzes R, Garcia-Pino A, Van Gerven N, Papapostolou D,
Péhau-Arnaudet G, Pardon E, Steyaert J, Howorka S, Remaut H.

Author information: 
(1)Structural and Molecular Microbiology, VIB Department of Structural Biology,
VIB, Pleinlaan 2, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.

S-layers are regular two-dimensional semipermeable protein layers that constitute
a major cell-wall component in archaea and many bacteria. The nanoscale repeat
structure of the S-layer lattices and their self-assembly from S-layer proteins
(SLPs) have sparked interest in their use as patterning and display scaffolds for
a range of nano-biotechnological applications. Despite their biological abundance
and the technological interest in them, structural information about SLPs is
limited to truncated and assembly-negative proteins. Here we report the X-ray
structure of the SbsB SLP of Geobacillus stearothermophilus PV72/p2 by the use of
nanobody-aided crystallization. SbsB consists of a seven-domain protein, formed
by an amino-terminal cell-wall attachment domain and six consecutive
immunoglobulin-like domains, that organize into a φ-shaped disk-like monomeric
crystallization unit stabilized by interdomain Ca(2+) ion coordination. A
Ca(2+)-dependent switch to the condensed SbsB quaternary structure pre-positions 
intermolecular contact zones and renders the protein competent for S-layer
assembly. On the basis of crystal packing, chemical crosslinking data and
cryo-electron microscopy projections, we present a model for the molecular
organization of this SLP into a porous protein sheet inside the S-layer. The SbsB
lattice represents a previously undescribed structural model for protein
assemblies and may advance our understanding of SLP physiology and self-assembly,
as well as the rational design of engineered higher-order structures for
biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11155 
PMID: 22722836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 2012 Jul 4;487(7405):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11130.

Reduced airway surface pH impairs bacterial killing in the porcine cystic
fibrosis lung.

Pezzulo AA(1), Tang XX, Hoegger MJ, Abou Alaiwa MH, Ramachandran S, Moninger TO, 
Karp PH, Wohlford-Lenane CL, Haagsman HP, van Eijk M, Bánfi B, Horswill AR,
Stoltz DA, McCray PB Jr, Welsh MJ, Zabner J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-shortening disease caused by mutations in the
cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Although
bacterial lung infection and the resulting inflammation cause most of the
morbidity and mortality, how the loss of CFTR function first disrupts airway host
defence has remained uncertain. To investigate the abnormalities that impair
elimination when a bacterium lands on the pristine surface of a newborn CF
airway, we interrogated the viability of individual bacteria immobilized on solid
grids and placed onto the airway surface. As a model, we studied CF pigs, which
spontaneously develop hallmark features of CF lung disease. At birth, their lungs
lack infection and inflammation, but have a reduced ability to eradicate
bacteria. Here we show that in newborn wild-type pigs, the thin layer of airway
surface liquid (ASL) rapidly kills bacteria in vivo, when removed from the lung
and in primary epithelial cultures. Lack of CFTR reduces bacterial killing. We
found that the ASL pH was more acidic in CF pigs, and reducing pH inhibited the
antimicrobial activity of ASL. Reducing ASL pH diminished bacterial killing in
wild-type pigs, and, conversely, increasing ASL pH rescued killing in CF pigs.
These results directly link the initial host defence defect to the loss of CFTR, 
an anion channel that facilitates HCO(3)(-) transport. Without CFTR, airway
epithelial HCO(3)(-) secretion is defective, the ASL pH falls and inhibits
antimicrobial function, and thereby impairs the killing of bacteria that enter
the newborn lung. These findings suggest that increasing ASL pH might prevent the
initial infection in patients with CF, and that assaying bacterial killing could 
report on the benefit of therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11130 
PMCID: PMC3390761
PMID: 22763554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 2012 Jul 4;487(7405):74-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11210.

Rapid disappearance of a warm, dusty circumstellar disk.

Melis C(1), Zuckerman B, Rhee JH, Song I, Murphy SJ, Bessell MS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences, University of California, San
Diego, California 92093-0424, USA. cmelis@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):45-6.

Stars form with gaseous and dusty circumstellar envelopes, which rapidly settle
into disks that eventually give rise to planetary systems. Understanding the
process by which these disks evolve is paramount in developing an accurate theory
of planet formation that can account for the variety of planetary systems
discovered so far. The formation of Earth-like planets through collisional
accumulation of rocky objects within a disk has mainly been explored in
theoretical and computational work in which post-collision ejecta evolution
typically is ignored, although recent work has considered the fate of such
material. Here we report observations of a young, Sun-like star (TYC 8241 2652 1)
where infrared flux from post-collisional ejecta has decreased drastically, by a 
factor of about 30, over a period of less than two years. The star seems to have 
gone from hosting substantial quantities of dusty ejecta, in a region analogous
to where the rocky planets orbit in the Solar System, to retaining at most a
meagre amount of cooler dust. Such a phase of rapid ejecta evolution has not been
previously predicted or observed, and no currently available physical model
satisfactorily explains the observations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11210 
PMID: 22763553 


492. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):490-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11163.

mTORC1 in the Paneth cell niche couples intestinal stem-cell function to calorie 
intake.

Yilmaz ÖH(1), Katajisto P, Lamming DW, Gültekin Y, Bauer-Rowe KE, Sengupta S,
Birsoy K, Dursun A, Yilmaz VO, Selig M, Nielsen GP, Mino-Kenudson M, Zukerberg
LR, Bhan AK, Deshpande V, Sabatini DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Jul 3;16(1):6-8.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Jul;13(7):406.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):477-8.

How adult tissue stem and niche cells respond to the nutritional state of an
organism is not well understood. Here we find that Paneth cells, a key
constituent of the mammalian intestinal stem-cell (ISC) niche, augment stem-cell 
function in response to calorie restriction. Calorie restriction acts by reducing
mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signalling in Paneth cells,
and the ISC-enhancing effects of calorie restriction can be mimicked by
rapamycin. Calorie intake regulates mTORC1 in Paneth cells, but not ISCs, and
forced activation of mTORC1 in Paneth cells during calorie restriction abolishes 
the ISC-augmenting effects of the niche. Finally, increased expression of bone
stromal antigen 1 (Bst1) in Paneth cells—an ectoenzyme that produces the
paracrine factor cyclic ADP ribose—mediates the effects of calorie restriction
and rapamycin on ISC function. Our findings establish that mTORC1
non-cell-autonomously regulates stem-cell self-renewal, and highlight a
significant role of the mammalian intestinal niche in coupling stem-cell function
to organismal physiology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11163 
PMCID: PMC3387287
PMID: 22722868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):545-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11098.

Generalized Lévy walks and the role of chemokines in migration of effector CD8+ T
cells.

Harris TH(1), Banigan EJ, Christian DA, Konradt C, Tait Wojno ED, Norose K,
Wilson EH, John B, Weninger W, Luster AD, Liu AJ, Hunter CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, 380 South University Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Chemokines have a central role in regulating processes essential to the immune
function of T cells, such as their migration within lymphoid tissues and
targeting of pathogens in sites of inflammation. Here we track T cells using
multi-photon microscopy to demonstrate that the chemokine CXCL10 enhances the
ability of CD8+ T cells to control the pathogen Toxoplasma gondii in the brains
of chronically infected mice. This chemokine boosts T-cell function in two
different ways: it maintains the effector T-cell population in the brain and
speeds up the average migration speed without changing the nature of the walk
statistics. Notably, these statistics are not Brownian; rather, CD8+ T-cell
motility in the brain is well described by a generalized Lévy walk. According to 
our model, this unexpected feature enables T cells to find rare targets with more
than an order of magnitude more efficiency than Brownian random walkers. Thus,
CD8+ T-cell behaviour is similar to Lévy strategies reported in organisms ranging
from mussels to marine predators and monkeys, and CXCL10 aids T cells in
shortening the average time taken to find rare targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11098 
PMCID: PMC3387349
PMID: 22722867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):554-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11147.

Immune self-reactivity triggered by drug-modified HLA-peptide repertoire.

Illing PT(1), Vivian JP, Dudek NL, Kostenko L, Chen Z, Bharadwaj M, Miles JJ,
Kjer-Nielsen L, Gras S, Williamson NA, Burrows SR, Purcell AW, Rossjohn J,
McCluskey J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria 3010, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):479-81.

Human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) are highly polymorphic proteins that initiate
immunity by presenting pathogen-derived peptides to T cells. HLA polymorphisms
mostly map to the antigen-binding cleft, thereby diversifying the repertoire of
self-derived and pathogen-derived peptide antigens selected by different HLA
allotypes. A growing number of immunologically based drug reactions, including
abacavir hypersensitivity syndrome (AHS) and carbamazepine-induced
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), are associated with specific HLA alleles.
However, little is known about the underlying mechanisms of these associations,
including AHS, a prototypical HLA-associated drug reaction occurring exclusively 
in individuals with the common histocompatibility allele HLA-B*57:01, and with a 
relative risk of more than 1,000 (refs 6, 7). We show that unmodified abacavir
binds non-covalently to HLA-B*57:01, lying across the bottom of the
antigen-binding cleft and reaching into the F-pocket, where a carboxy-terminal
tryptophan typically anchors peptides bound to HLA-B*57:01. Abacavir binds with
exquisite specificity to HLA-B*57:01, changing the shape and chemistry of the
antigen-binding cleft, thereby altering the repertoire of endogenous peptides
that can bind HLA-B*57:01. In this way, abacavir guides the selection of new
endogenous peptides, inducing a marked alteration in 'immunological self'. The
resultant peptide-centric 'altered self' activates abacavir-specific T-cells,
thereby driving polyclonal CD8 T-cell activation and a systemic reaction
manifesting as AHS. We also show that carbamazepine, a widely used anti-epileptic
drug associated with hypersensitivity reactions in HLA-B*15:02 individuals, binds
to this allotype, producing alterations in the repertoire of presented self
peptides. Our findings simultaneously highlight the importance of HLA
polymorphism in the evolution of pharmacogenomics and provide a general mechanism
for some of the growing number of HLA-linked hypersensitivities that involve
small-molecule drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11147 
PMID: 22722860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):549-53. doi: 10.1038/nature11132.

PPAR-γ is a major driver of the accumulation and phenotype of adipose tissue Treg
cells.

Cipolletta D(1), Feuerer M, Li A, Kamei N, Lee J, Shoelson SE, Benoist C, Mathis 
D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Jul 3;16(1):4-6.

Obesity and type-2 diabetes have increased markedly over the past few decades, in
parallel. One of the major links between these two disorders is chronic,
low-grade inflammation. Prolonged nutrient excess promotes the accumulation and
activation of leukocytes in visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and ultimately other
tissues, leading to metabolic abnormalities such as insulin resistance, type-2
diabetes and fatty-liver disease. Although invasion of VAT by pro-inflammatory
macrophages is considered to be a key event driving adipose-tissue inflammation
and insulin resistance, little is known about the roles of other immune system
cell types in these processes. A unique population of VAT-resident regulatory T
(Treg) cells was recently implicated in control of the inflammatory state of
adipose tissue and, thereby, insulin sensitivity. Here we identify peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ, the 'master regulator' of adipocyte
differentiation, as a crucial molecular orchestrator of VAT Treg cell
accumulation, phenotype and function. Unexpectedly, PPAR-γ expression by VAT Treg
cells was necessary for complete restoration of insulin sensitivity in obese mice
by the thiazolidinedione drug pioglitazone. These findings suggest a previously
unknown cellular mechanism for this important class of thiazolidinedione drugs,
and provide proof-of-principle that discrete populations of Treg cells with
unique functions can be precisely targeted to therapeutic ends.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11132 
PMCID: PMC3387339
PMID: 22722857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):523-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11124.

Three-dimensional limb joint mobility in the early tetrapod Ichthyostega.

Pierce SE(1), Clack JA, Hutchinson JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Basic Sciences and Structure and Motion Laboratory,
The Royal Veterinary College, Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield AL9 7TA, UK.
spierce@rvc.ac.uk

The origin of tetrapods and the transition from swimming to walking was a pivotal
step in the evolution and diversification of terrestrial vertebrates. During this
time, modifications of the limbs—particularly the specialization of joints and
the structures that guide their motions—fundamentally changed the ways in which
early tetrapods could move. Nonetheless, little is known about the functional
consequences of limb anatomy in early tetrapods and how that anatomy influenced
locomotion capabilities at this very critical stage in vertebrate evolution. Here
we present a three-dimensional reconstruction of the iconic Devonian tetrapod
Ichthyostega and a quantitative and comparative analysis of limb mobility in this
early tetrapod. We show that Ichthyostega could not have employed typical
tetrapod locomotory behaviours, such as lateral sequence walking. In particular, 
it lacked the necessary rotary motions in its limbs to push the body off the
ground and move the limbs in an alternating sequence. Given that long-axis
rotation was present in the fins of tetrapodomorph fishes, it seems that either
early tetrapods evolved through an initial stage of restricted shoulder and hip
joint mobility or that Ichthyostega was unique in this respect. We conclude that 
early tetrapods with the skeletal morphology and limb mobility of Ichthyostega
were unlikely to have made some of the recently described Middle Devonian
trackways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11124 
PMID: 22722854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):496-501. doi: 10.1038/nature11142.

A map of nucleosome positions in yeast at base-pair resolution.

Brogaard K(1), Xi L, Wang JP, Widom J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208, USA.

The exact positions of nucleosomes along genomic DNA can influence many aspects
of chromosome function. However, existing methods for mapping nucleosomes do not 
provide the necessary single-base-pair accuracy to determine these positions.
Here we develop and apply a new approach for direct mapping of nucleosome centres
on the basis of chemical modification of engineered histones. The resulting map
locates nucleosome positions genome-wide in unprecedented detail and accuracy. It
shows new aspects of the in vivo nucleosome organization that are linked to
transcription factor binding, RNA polymerase pausing and the higher-order
structure of the chromatin fibre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11142 
PMCID: PMC3786739
PMID: 22722846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):537-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11219.

The molecular evolution of acquired resistance to targeted EGFR blockade in
colorectal cancers.

Diaz LA Jr(1), Williams RT, Wu J, Kinde I, Hecht JR, Berlin J, Allen B, Bozic I, 
Reiter JG, Nowak MA, Kinzler KW, Oliner KS, Vogelstein B.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Center for Cancer Genetics and Therapeutics, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute at Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA. 
ldiaz1@jhmi.edu

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug;9(8):428.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Aug;9(8):427.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):482-3.

Colorectal tumours that are wild type for KRAS are often sensitive to EGFR
blockade, but almost always develop resistance within several months of
initiating therapy. The mechanisms underlying this acquired resistance to
anti-EGFR antibodies are largely unknown. This situation is in marked contrast to
that of small-molecule targeted agents, such as inhibitors of ABL, EGFR, BRAF and
MEK, in which mutations in the genes encoding the protein targets render the
tumours resistant to the effects of the drugs. The simplest hypothesis to account
for the development of resistance to EGFR blockade is that rare cells with KRAS
mutations pre-exist at low levels in tumours with ostensibly wild-type KRAS
genes. Although this hypothesis would seem readily testable, there is no evidence
in pre-clinical models to support it, nor is there data from patients. To test
this hypothesis, we determined whether mutant KRAS DNA could be detected in the
circulation of 28 patients receiving monotherapy with panitumumab, a therapeutic 
anti-EGFR antibody. We found that 9 out of 24 (38%) patients whose tumours were
initially KRAS wild type developed detectable mutations in KRAS in their sera,
three of which developed multiple different KRAS mutations. The appearance of
these mutations was very consistent, generally occurring between 5 and 6 months
following treatment. Mathematical modelling indicated that the mutations were
present in expanded subclones before the initiation of panitumumab treatment.
These results suggest that the emergence of KRAS mutations is a mediator of
acquired resistance to EGFR blockade and that these mutations can be detected in 
a non-invasive manner. They explain why solid tumours develop resistance to
targeted therapies in a highly reproducible fashion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11219 
PMCID: PMC3436069
PMID: 22722843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):541-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11134.

Autoregulation of microRNA biogenesis by let-7 and Argonaute.

Zisoulis DG(1), Kai ZS, Chang RK, Pasquinelli AE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0349, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Nov 9;111(11):1395-7.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) comprise a large family of small RNA molecules that
post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression in many biological pathways. Most
miRNAs are derived from long primary transcripts that undergo processing by
Drosha to produce ~65-nucleotide precursors that are then cleaved by Dicer,
resulting in the mature 22-nucleotide forms. Serving as guides in Argonaute
protein complexes, mature miRNAs use imperfect base pairing to recognize
sequences in messenger RNA transcripts, leading to translational repression and
destabilization of the target messenger RNAs. Here we show that the miRNA complex
also targets and regulates non-coding RNAs that serve as substrates for the
miRNA-processing pathway. We found that the Argonaute protein in Caenorhabditis
elegans, ALG-1, binds to a specific site at the 3′ end of let-7 miRNA primary
transcripts and promotes downstream processing events. This interaction is
mediated by mature let-7 miRNA through a conserved complementary site in its own 
primary transcript, thus creating a positive-feedback loop. We further show that 
ALG-1 associates with let-7 primary transcripts in nuclear fractions. Argonaute
also binds let-7 primary transcripts in human cells, demonstrating that the miRNA
pathway targets non-coding RNAs in addition to protein-coding messenger RNAs
across species. Moreover, our studies in C. elegans reveal a novel role for
Argonaute in promoting biogenesis of a targeted transcript, expanding the
functions of the miRNA pathway in gene regulation. This discovery of
autoregulation of let-7 biogenesis establishes a new mechanism for controlling
miRNA expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11134 
PMCID: PMC3387326
PMID: 22722835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):485-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11131.

Dimensionality of consumer search space drives trophic interaction strengths.

Pawar S(1), Dell AI, Savage VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomathematics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095-1766, USA. samraat@ucla.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 Jan 31;493(7434):E1-2; discussion E2-3.

Trophic interactions govern biomass fluxes in ecosystems, and stability in food
webs. Knowledge of how trophic interaction strengths are affected by differences 
among habitats is crucial for understanding variation in ecological systems. Here
we show how substantial variation in consumption-rate data, and hence trophic
interaction strengths, arises because consumers tend to encounter resources more 
frequently in three dimensions (3D) (for example, arboreal and pelagic zones)
than two dimensions (2D) (for example, terrestrial and benthic zones). By
combining new theory with extensive data (376 species, with body masses ranging
from 5.24 × 10(-14) kg to 800 kg), we find that consumption rates scale
sublinearly with consumer body mass (exponent of approximately 0.85) for 2D
interactions, but superlinearly (exponent of approximately 1.06) for 3D
interactions. These results contradict the currently widespread assumption of a
single exponent (of approximately 0.75) in consumer-resource and food-web
research. Further analysis of 2,929 consumer-resource interactions shows that
dimensionality of consumer search space is probably a major driver of species
coexistence, and the stability and abundance of populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11131 
PMID: 22722834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):527-31. doi: 10.1038/nature11128.

The bonobo genome compared with the chimpanzee and human genomes.

Prüfer K(1), Munch K, Hellmann I, Akagi K, Miller JR, Walenz B, Koren S, Sutton
G, Kodira C, Winer R, Knight JR, Mullikin JC, Meader SJ, Ponting CP, Lunter G,
Higashino S, Hobolth A, Dutheil J, Karakoç E, Alkan C, Sajjadian S, Catacchio CR,
Ventura M, Marques-Bonet T, Eichler EE, André C, Atencia R, Mugisha L, Junhold J,
Patterson N, Siebauer M, Good JM, Fischer A, Ptak SE, Lachmann M, Symer DE,
Mailund T, Schierup MH, Andrés AM, Kelso J, Pääbo S.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany. 
pruefer@eva.mpg.de

Two African apes are the closest living relatives of humans: the chimpanzee (Pan 
troglodytes) and the bonobo (Pan paniscus). Although they are similar in many
respects, bonobos and chimpanzees differ strikingly in key social and sexual
behaviours, and for some of these traits they show more similarity with humans
than with each other. Here we report the sequencing and assembly of the bonobo
genome to study its evolutionary relationship with the chimpanzee and human
genomes. We find that more than three per cent of the human genome is more
closely related to either the bonobo or the chimpanzee genome than these are to
each other. These regions allow various aspects of the ancestry of the two ape
species to be reconstructed. In addition, many of the regions that overlap genes 
may eventually help us understand the genetic basis of phenotypes that humans
share with one of the two apes to the exclusion of the other.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11128 
PMCID: PMC3498939
PMID: 22722832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):532-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11156.

Emergence of KRAS mutations and acquired resistance to anti-EGFR therapy in
colorectal cancer.

Misale S(1), Yaeger R, Hobor S, Scala E, Janakiraman M, Liska D, Valtorta E,
Schiavo R, Buscarino M, Siravegna G, Bencardino K, Cercek A, Chen CT, Veronese S,
Zanon C, Sartore-Bianchi A, Gambacorta M, Gallicchio M, Vakiani E, Boscaro V,
Medico E, Weiser M, Siena S, Di Nicolantonio F, Solit D, Bardelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Institute for Cancer Research and Treatment,
10060 Candiolo (Torino), Italy.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug;9(8):428.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):482-3.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Aug;9(8):427.

A main limitation of therapies that selectively target kinase signalling pathways
is the emergence of secondary drug resistance. Cetuximab, a monoclonal antibody
that binds the extracellular domain of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR),
is effective in a subset of KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancers. After
an initial response, secondary resistance invariably ensues, thereby limiting the
clinical benefit of this drug. The molecular bases of secondary resistance to
cetuximab in colorectal cancer are poorly understood. Here we show that molecular
alterations (in most instances point mutations) of KRAS are causally associated
with the onset of acquired resistance to anti-EGFR treatment in colorectal
cancers. Expression of mutant KRAS under the control of its endogenous gene
promoter was sufficient to confer cetuximab resistance, but resistant cells
remained sensitive to combinatorial inhibition of EGFR and mitogen-activated
protein-kinase kinase (MEK). Analysis of metastases from patients who developed
resistance to cetuximab or panitumumab showed the emergence of KRAS amplification
in one sample and acquisition of secondary KRAS mutations in 60% (6 out of 10) of
the cases. KRAS mutant alleles were detectable in the blood of cetuximab-treated 
patients as early as 10 months before radiographic documentation of disease
progression. In summary, the results identify KRAS mutations as frequent drivers 
of acquired resistance to cetuximab in colorectal cancers, indicate that the
emergence of KRAS mutant clones can be detected non-invasively months before
radiographic progression and suggest early initiation of a MEK inhibitor as a
rational strategy for delaying or reversing drug resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11156 
PMCID: PMC3927413
PMID: 22722830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2012 Jun 27;486(7404):518-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11158.

Activation of remote meta-C-H bonds assisted by an end-on template.

Leow D(1), Li G, Mei TS, Yu JQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):478-9.

Functionalization of unactivated carbon-hydrogen (C-H) single bonds is an
efficient strategy for rapid generation of complex molecules from simpler ones.
However, it is difficult to achieve selectivity when multiple inequivalent C-H
bonds are present in the target molecule. The usual approach is to use
σ-chelating directing groups, which lead to ortho-selectivity through the
formation of a conformationally rigid six- or seven-membered cyclic
pre-transition state. Despite the broad utility of this approach,
proximity-driven reactivity prevents the activation of remote C-H bonds. Here we 
report a class of easily removable nitrile-containing templates that direct the
activation of distal meta-C-H bonds (more than ten bonds away) of a tethered
arene. We attribute this new mode of C-H activation to a weak 'end-on'
interaction between the linear nitrile group and the metal centre. The 'end-on'
coordination geometry relieves the strain of the cyclophane-like pre-transition
state of the meta-C-H activation event. In addition, this template overrides the 
intrinsic electronic and steric biases as well as ortho-directing effects with
two broadly useful classes of arene substrates (toluene derivatives and
hydrocinnamic acids).

DOI: 10.1038/nature11158 
PMCID: PMC3386562
PMID: 22739317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2012 Jun 27;486(7404):513-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11222.

Fractal morphology, imaging and mass spectrometry of single aerosol particles in 
flight.

Loh ND(1), Hampton CY, Martin AV, Starodub D, Sierra RG, Barty A, Aquila A,
Schulz J, Lomb L, Steinbrener J, Shoeman RL, Kassemeyer S, Bostedt C, Bozek J,
Epp SW, Erk B, Hartmann R, Rolles D, Rudenko A, Rudek B, Foucar L, Kimmel N,
Weidenspointner G, Hauser G, Holl P, Pedersoli E, Liang M, Hunter MS, Gumprecht
L, Coppola N, Wunderer C, Graafsma H, Maia FR, Ekeberg T, Hantke M, Fleckenstein 
H, Hirsemann H, Nass K, White TA, Tobias HJ, Farquar GR, Benner WH, Hau-Riege SP,
Reich C, Hartmann A, Soltau H, Marchesini S, Bajt S, Barthelmess M, Bucksbaum P, 
Hodgson KO, Strüder L, Ullrich J, Frank M, Schlichting I, Chapman HN, Bogan MJ.

Author information: 
(1)PULSE Institute, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road,
Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):460. Hunter, M M [corrected to Hunter, M S].

The morphology of micrometre-size particulate matter is of critical importance in
fields ranging from toxicology to climate science, yet these properties are
surprisingly difficult to measure in the particles' native environment. Electron 
microscopy requires collection of particles on a substrate; visible light
scattering provides insufficient resolution; and X-ray synchrotron studies have
been limited to ensembles of particles. Here we demonstrate an in situ method for
imaging individual sub-micrometre particles to nanometre resolution in their
native environment, using intense, coherent X-ray pulses from the Linac Coherent 
Light Source free-electron laser. We introduced individual aerosol particles into
the pulsed X-ray beam, which is sufficiently intense that diffraction from
individual particles can be measured for morphological analysis. At the same
time, ion fragments ejected from the beam were analysed using mass spectrometry, 
to determine the composition of single aerosol particles. Our results show the
extent of internal dilation symmetry of individual soot particles subject to
non-equilibrium aggregation, and the surprisingly large variability in their
fractal dimensions. More broadly, our methods can be extended to resolve both
static and dynamic morphology of general ensembles of disordered particles. Such 
general morphology has implications in topics such as solvent accessibilities in 
proteins, vibrational energy transfer by the hydrodynamic interaction of amino
acids, and large-scale production of nanoscale structures by flame synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11222 
PMID: 22739316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 2012 Jun 27;486(7404):509-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11188.

The limits of the nuclear landscape.

Erler J(1), Birge N, Kortelainen M, Nazarewicz W, Olsen E, Perhac AM, Stoitsov M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tennessee 37996, USA.

In 2011, 100 new nuclides were discovered. They joined the approximately 3,000
stable and radioactive nuclides that either occur naturally on Earth or are
synthesized in the laboratory. Every atomic nucleus, characterized by a specific 
number of protons and neutrons, occupies a spot on the chart of nuclides, which
is bounded by 'drip lines' indicating the values of neutron and proton number at 
which nuclear binding ends. The placement of the neutron drip line for the
heavier elements is based on theoretical predictions using extreme
extrapolations, and so is uncertain. However, it is not known how uncertain it is
or how many protons and neutrons can be bound in a nucleus. Here we estimate
these limits of the nuclear 'landscape' and provide statistical and systematic
uncertainties for our predictions. We use nuclear density functional theory,
several Skyrme interactions and high-performance computing, and find that the
number of bound nuclides with between 2 and 120 protons is around 7,000. We find 
that extrapolations for drip-line positions and selected nuclear properties,
including neutron separation energies relevant to astrophysical processes, are
very consistent between the models used.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11188 
PMID: 22739315 


506. Nature. 2012 Jun 27;486(7404):505-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11202.

Magnetic tornadoes as energy channels into the solar corona.

Wedemeyer-Böhm S(1), Scullion E, Steiner O, van der Voort LR, de la Cruz
Rodriguez J, Fedun V, Erdélyi R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Theoretical Astrophysics, University of Oslo, PO Box 1029
Blindern, N-0315 Oslo, Norway. svenwe@astro.uio.no

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):476-7.

Heating the outer layers of the magnetically quiet solar atmosphere to more than 
one million kelvin and accelerating the solar wind requires an energy flux of
approximately 100 to 300 watts per square metre, but how this energy is
transferred and dissipated there is a puzzle and several alternative solutions
have been proposed. Braiding and twisting of magnetic field structures, which is 
caused by the convective flows at the solar surface, was suggested as an
efficient mechanism for atmospheric heating. Convectively driven vortex flows
that harbour magnetic fields are observed to be abundant in the photosphere (the 
visible surface of the Sun). Recently, corresponding swirling motions have been
discovered in the chromosphere, the atmospheric layer sandwiched between the
photosphere and the corona. Here we report the imprints of these chromospheric
swirls in the transition region and low corona, and identify them as
observational signatures of rapidly rotating magnetic structures. These
ubiquitous structures, which resemble super-tornadoes under solar conditions,
reach from the convection zone into the upper solar atmosphere and provide an
alternative mechanism for channelling energy from the lower into the upper solar 
atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11202 
PMID: 22739314 


507. Nature. 2012 Jun 27;486(7404):502-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11161.

The signature of orbital motion from the dayside of the planet τ Boötis b.

Brogi M(1), Snellen IA, de Kok RJ, Albrecht S, Birkby J, de Mooij EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300RA Leiden, The
Netherlands. brogi@strw.leidenuniv.nl

The giant planet orbiting τ Boötis (named τ Boötis b) was amongst the first
extrasolar planets to be discovered. It is one of the brightest exoplanets and
one of the nearest to us, with an orbital period of just a few days. Over the
course of more than a decade, measurements of its orbital inclination have been
announced and refuted, and have hitherto remained elusive. Here we report the
detection of carbon monoxide absorption in the thermal dayside spectrum of τ
Boötis b. At a spectral resolution of ∼100,000, we trace the change in the radial
velocity of the planet over a large range in phase, determining an orbital
inclination of 44.5° ± 1.5° and a mass 5.95 ± 0.28 times that of Jupiter,
demonstrating that atmospheric characterization is possible for non-transiting
planets. The strong absorption signal points to an atmosphere with a temperature 
that is decreasing towards higher altitudes, in contrast to the temperature
inversion inferred for other highly irradiated planets. This supports the
hypothesis that the absorbing compounds believed to cause such atmospheric
inversions are destroyed in τ Boötis b by the ultraviolet emission from the
active host star.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11161 
PMID: 22739313 


508. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):E1; discussion E1-2. doi: 10.1038/nature11166.

The Great Eruption of η Carinae.

Davidson K(1), Humphreys RM.

Author information: 
(1)Minnesota Institute for Astrophysics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA. kd@umn.edu

Comment on
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):375-8.

Arising from A. Rest et al. 482, 375-378 (2012).During the years 1838-1858, the
very massive star η Carinae became the prototype supernova impostor: it released 
nearly as much light as a supernova explosion and shed an impressive amount of
mass, but survived as a star. In the standard interpretation, mass was driven
outward by excess radiation pressure, persisting for several years. From a
light-echo spectrum of that event, Rest et al. conclude that "other physical
mechanisms" are required to explain it, because the gas outflow appears cooler
than theoretical expectations. Here we note that (1) theory predicted a
substantially lower temperature than they quoted, and (2) their inferred
observational value is quite uncertain. Therefore, analyses so far do not reveal 
any significant contradiction between the observed spectrum and most previous
discussions of the Great Eruption and its physics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11166 
PMID: 22722207 


509. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):405-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11154.

Sequence analysis of mutations and translocations across breast cancer subtypes.

Banerji S(1), Cibulskis K, Rangel-Escareno C, Brown KK, Carter SL, Frederick AM, 
Lawrence MS, Sivachenko AY, Sougnez C, Zou L, Cortes ML, Fernandez-Lopez JC, Peng
S, Ardlie KG, Auclair D, Bautista-Piña V, Duke F, Francis J, Jung J, Maffuz-Aziz 
A, Onofrio RC, Parkin M, Pho NH, Quintanar-Jurado V, Ramos AH, Rebollar-Vega R,
Rodriguez-Cuevas S, Romero-Cordoba SL, Schumacher SE, Stransky N, Thompson KM,
Uribe-Figueroa L, Baselga J, Beroukhim R, Polyak K, Sgroi DC, Richardson AL,
Jimenez-Sanchez G, Lander ES, Gabriel SB, Garraway LA, Golub TR, Melendez-Zajgla 
J, Toker A, Getz G, Hidalgo-Miranda A, Meyerson M.

Author information: 
(1)The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):328-9.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 16;520(7547):E11-2.
    Breast Cancer Res. 2012;14(5):323.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Aug;12(8):507.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 16;520(7547):E12-4.

Breast carcinoma is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality in women
worldwide, with an estimated 1.38 million new cases and 458,000 deaths in 2008
alone. This malignancy represents a heterogeneous group of tumours with
characteristic molecular features, prognosis and responses to available therapy. 
Recurrent somatic alterations in breast cancer have been described, including
mutations and copy number alterations, notably ERBB2 amplifications, the first
successful therapy target defined by a genomic aberration. Previous DNA
sequencing studies of breast cancer genomes have revealed additional candidate
mutations and gene rearrangements. Here we report the whole-exome sequences of
DNA from 103 human breast cancers of diverse subtypes from patients in Mexico and
Vietnam compared to matched-normal DNA, together with whole-genome sequences of
22 breast cancer/normal pairs. Beyond confirming recurrent somatic mutations in
PIK3CA, TP53, AKT1, GATA3 and MAP3K1, we discovered recurrent mutations in the
CBFB transcription factor gene and deletions of its partner RUNX1. Furthermore,
we have identified a recurrent MAGI3-AKT3 fusion enriched in triple-negative
breast cancer lacking oestrogen and progesterone receptors and ERBB2 expression. 
The MAGI3-AKT3 fusion leads to constitutive activation of AKT kinase, which is
abolished by treatment with an ATP-competitive AKT small-molecule inhibitor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11154 
PMCID: PMC4148686
PMID: 22722202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):390-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11186.

First dairying in green Saharan Africa in the fifth millennium BC.

Dunne J(1), Evershed RP, Salque M, Cramp L, Bruni S, Ryan K, Biagetti S, di
Lernia S.

Author information: 
(1)Organic Geochemistry Unit, School of Chemistry, University of Bristol,
Cantock's Close, Bristol BS8 1TS, UK.

In the prehistoric green Sahara of Holocene North Africa-in contrast to the
Neolithic of Europe and Eurasia-a reliance on cattle, sheep and goats emerged as 
a stable and widespread way of life, long before the first evidence for
domesticated plants or settled village farming communities. The remarkable rock
art found widely across the region depicts cattle herding among early Saharan
pastoral groups, and includes rare scenes of milking; however, these images can
rarely be reliably dated. Although the faunal evidence provides further
confirmation of the importance of cattle and other domesticates, the scarcity of 
cattle bones makes it impossible to ascertain herd structures via kill-off
patterns, thereby precluding interpretations of whether dairying was practiced.
Because pottery production begins early in northern Africa the potential exists
to investigate diet and subsistence practices using molecular and isotopic
analyses of absorbed food residues. This approach has been successful in
determining the chronology of dairying beginning in the 'Fertile Crescent' of the
Near East and its spread across Europe. Here we report the first unequivocal
chemical evidence, based on the δ(13)C and Δ(13)C values of the major alkanoic
acids of milk fat, for the adoption of dairying practices by prehistoric Saharan 
African people in the fifth millennium bc. Interpretations are supported by a new
database of modern ruminant animal fats collected from Africa. These findings
confirm the importance of 'lifetime products', such as milk, in early Saharan
pastoralism, and provide an evolutionary context for the emergence of lactase
persistence in Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11186 
PMID: 22722200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):386-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11150.

Multiscale gigapixel photography.

Brady DJ(1), Gehm ME, Stack RA, Marks DL, Kittle DS, Golish DR, Vera EM, Feller
SD.

Author information: 
(1)Fitzpatrick Institute for Photonics, Duke University, PO Box 90291, Durham,
North Carolina 27708, USA. dbrady@duke.edu

Pixel count is the ratio of the solid angle within a camera's field of view to
the solid angle covered by a single detector element. Because the size of the
smallest resolvable pixel is proportional to aperture diameter and the maximum
field of view is scale independent, the diffraction-limited pixel count is
proportional to aperture area. At present, digital cameras operate near the
fundamental limit of 1-10 megapixels for millimetre-scale apertures, but few
approach the corresponding limits of 1-100 gigapixels for centimetre-scale
apertures. Barriers to high-pixel-count imaging include scale-dependent geometric
aberrations, the cost and complexity of gigapixel sensor arrays, and the
computational and communications challenge of gigapixel image management. Here we
describe the AWARE-2 camera, which uses a 16-mm entrance aperture to capture
snapshot, one-gigapixel images at three frames per minute. AWARE-2 uses a
parallel array of microcameras to reduce the problems of gigapixel imaging to
those of megapixel imaging, which are more tractable. In cameras of conventional 
design, lens speed and field of view decrease as lens scale increases, but with
the experimental system described here we confirm previous theoretical results
suggesting that lens speed and field of view can be scale independent in
microcamera-based imagers resolving up to 50 gigapixels. Ubiquitous gigapixel
cameras may transform the central challenge of photography from the question of
where to point the camera to that of how to mine the data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11150 
PMID: 22722199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):382-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11178.

Electronic nematicity above the structural and superconducting transition in
BaFe2(As(1-x)P(x))2.

Kasahara S(1), Shi HJ, Hashimoto K, Tonegawa S, Mizukami Y, Shibauchi T, Sugimoto
K, Fukuda T, Terashima T, Nevidomskyy AH, Matsuda Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

Electronic nematicity, a unidirectional self-organized state that breaks the
rotational symmetry of the underlying lattice, has been observed in the iron
pnictide and copper oxide high-temperature superconductors. Whether nematicity
plays an equally important role in these two systems is highly controversial. In 
iron pnictides, the nematicity has usually been associated with the
tetragonal-to-orthorhombic structural transition at temperature T(s). Although
recent experiments have provided hints of nematicity, they were performed either 
in the low-temperature orthorhombic phase or in the tetragonal phase under
uniaxial strain, both of which break the 90° rotational C(4) symmetry. Therefore,
the question remains open whether the nematicity can exist above T(s) without an 
external driving force. Here we report magnetic torque measurements of the
isovalent-doping system BaFe(2)(As(1-x)P(x))(2), showing that the nematicity
develops well above T(s) and, moreover, persists to the non-magnetic
superconducting regime, resulting in a phase diagram similar to the pseudogap
phase diagram of the copper oxides. By combining these results with synchrotron
X-ray measurements, we identify two distinct temperatures-one at T*, signifying a
true nematic transition, and the other at T(s) (<T*), which we show not to be a
true phase transition, but rather what we refer to as a 'meta-nematic
transition', in analogy to the well-known meta-magnetic transition in the theory 
of magnetism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11178 
PMID: 22722198 


513. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):378-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11216.

Constraints on the volatile distribution within Shackleton crater at the lunar
south pole.

Zuber MT(1), Head JW, Smith DE, Neumann GA, Mazarico E, Torrence MH, Aharonson O,
Tye AR, Fassett CI, Rosenburg MA, Melosh HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. zuber@mit.edu

Shackleton crater is nearly coincident with the Moon's south pole. Its interior
receives almost no direct sunlight and is a perennial cold trap, making
Shackleton a promising candidate location in which to seek sequestered volatiles.
However, previous orbital and Earth-based radar mapping and orbital optical
imaging have yielded conflicting interpretations about the existence of
volatiles. Here we present observations from the Lunar Orbiter Laser Altimeter on
board the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, revealing Shackleton to be an ancient,
unusually well-preserved simple crater whose interior walls are fresher than its 
floor and rim. Shackleton floor deposits are nearly the same age as the rim,
suggesting that little floor deposition has occurred since the crater formed more
than three billion years ago. At a wavelength of 1,064 nanometres, the floor of
Shackleton is brighter than the surrounding terrain and the interiors of nearby
craters, but not as bright as the interior walls. The combined observations are
explicable primarily by downslope movement of regolith on the walls exposing
fresher underlying material. The relatively brighter crater floor is most simply 
explained by decreased space weathering due to shadowing, but a
one-micrometre-thick layer containing about 20 per cent surficial ice is an
alternative possibility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11216 
PMID: 22722197 


514. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):368-74. doi: 10.1038/nature11211.

Structure of yeast Argonaute with guide RNA.

Nakanishi K(1), Weinberg DE, Bartel DP, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.

The RNA-induced silencing complex, comprising Argonaute and guide RNA, mediates
RNA interference. Here we report the 3.2 Å crystal structure of Kluyveromyces
polysporus Argonaute (KpAGO) fortuitously complexed with guide RNA originating
from small-RNA duplexes autonomously loaded by recombinant KpAGO. Despite their
diverse sequences, guide-RNA nucleotides 1-8 are positioned similarly, with
sequence-independent contacts to bases, phosphates and 2'-hydroxyl groups
pre-organizing the backbone of nucleotides 2-8 in a near-A-form conformation.
Compared with prokaryotic Argonautes, KpAGO has numerous surface-exposed
insertion segments, with a cluster of conserved insertions repositioning the N
domain to enable full propagation of guide-target pairing. Compared with
Argonautes in inactive conformations, KpAGO has a hydrogen-bond network that
stabilizes an expanded and repositioned loop, which inserts an invariant
glutamate into the catalytic pocket. Mutation analyses and analogies to
ribonuclease H indicate that insertion of this glutamate finger completes a
universally conserved catalytic tetrad, thereby activating Argonaute for RNA
cleavage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11211 
PMCID: PMC3853139
PMID: 22722195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):341-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11116.

Superallowed Gamow-Teller decay of the doubly magic nucleus 100Sn.

Hinke CB(1), Böhmer M, Boutachkov P, Faestermann T, Geissel H, Gerl J, Gernhäuser
R, Górska M, Gottardo A, Grawe H, Grębosz JL, Krücken R, Kurz N, Liu Z, Maier L, 
Nowacki F, Pietri S, Podolyák Z, Sieja K, Steiger K, Straub K, Weick H,
Wollersheim HJ, Woods PJ, Al-Dahan N, Alkhomashi N, Ataç A, Blazhev A, Braun NF, 
Čeliković IT, Davinson T, Dillmann I, Domingo-Pardo C, Doornenbal PC, de France
G, Farrelly GF, Farinon F, Goel N, Habermann TC, Hoischen R, Janik R, Karny M,
Kaşkaş A, Kojouharov IM, Kröll T, Litvinov Y, Myalski S, Nebel F, Nishimura S,
Nociforo C, Nyberg J, Parikh AR, Procházka A, Regan PH, Rigollet C, Schaffner H, 
Scheidenberger C, Schwertel S, Söderström PA, Steer SJ, Stolz A, Strmeň P.

Author information: 
(1)Physik Department E12, Technische Universität München, D-85748 Garching,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):330-1.

The shell structure of atomic nuclei is associated with 'magic numbers' and
originates in the nearly independent motion of neutrons and protons in a mean
potential generated by all nucleons. During β(+)-decay, a proton transforms into 
a neutron in a previously not fully occupied orbital, emitting a
positron-neutrino pair with either parallel or antiparallel spins, in a
Gamow-Teller or Fermi transition, respectively. The transition probability, or
strength, of a Gamow-Teller transition depends sensitively on the underlying
shell structure and is usually distributed among many states in the neighbouring 
nucleus. Here we report measurements of the half-life and decay energy for the
decay of (100)Sn, the heaviest doubly magic nucleus with equal numbers of protons
and neutrons. In the β-decay of (100)Sn, a large fraction of the strength is
observable because of the large decay energy. We determine the largest
Gamow-Teller strength so far measured in allowed nuclear β-decay, establishing
the 'superallowed' nature of this Gamow-Teller transition. The large strength and
the low-energy states in the daughter nucleus, (100)In, are well reproduced by
modern, large-scale shell model calculations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11116 
PMID: 22722192 


516. Nature. 2012 Jun 20;486(7403):335-40. doi: 10.1038/nature11170.

Engineering H5N1 avian influenza viruses to study human adaptation.

Morens DM(1), Subbarao K, Taubenberger JK.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. dm270q@nih.gov

Two studies of H5N1 avian influenza viruses that had been genetically engineered 
to render them transmissible between ferrets have proved highly controversial.
Divergent opinions exist about the importance of these studies of influenza
transmission and about potential 'dual use' research implications. No consensus
has developed yet about how to balance these concerns. After not recommending
immediate full publication of earlier, less complete versions of the studies, the
United States National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity subsequently
recommended full publication of more complete manuscripts; however, controversy
about this and similar research remains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11170 
PMCID: PMC3731044
PMID: 22722191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7403):375-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11121.

An abundance of small exoplanets around stars with a wide range of metallicities.

Buchhave LA(1), Latham DW, Johansen A, Bizzarro M, Torres G, Rowe JF, Batalha NM,
Borucki WJ, Brugamyer E, Caldwell C, Bryson ST, Ciardi DR, Cochran WD, Endl M,
Esquerdo GA, Ford EB, Geary JC, Gilliland RL, Hansen T, Isaacson H, Laird JB,
Lucas PW, Marcy GW, Morse JA, Robertson P, Shporer A, Stefanik RP, Still M, Quinn
SN.

Author information: 
(1)Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
buchhave@astro.ku.dk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):331-2.

The abundance of heavy elements (metallicity) in the photospheres of stars
similar to the Sun provides a 'fossil' record of the chemical composition of the 
initial protoplanetary disk. Metal-rich stars are much more likely to harbour gas
giant planets, supporting the model that planets form by accumulation of dust and
ice particles. Recent ground-based surveys suggest that this correlation is
weakened for Neptunian-sized planets. However, how the relationship between size 
and metallicity extends into the regime of terrestrial-sized exoplanets is
unknown. Here we report spectroscopic metallicities of the host stars of 226
small exoplanet candidates discovered by NASA's Kepler mission, including objects
that are comparable in size to the terrestrial planets in the Solar System. We
find that planets with radii less than four Earth radii form around host stars
with a wide range of metallicities (but on average a metallicity close to that of
the Sun), whereas large planets preferentially form around stars with higher
metallicities. This observation suggests that terrestrial planets may be
widespread in the disk of the Galaxy, with no special requirement of enhanced
metallicity for their formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11121 
PMID: 22722196 


518. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):271-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11090.

Control of a Salmonella virulence locus by an ATP-sensing leader messenger RNA.

Lee EJ(1), Groisman EA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale School of Medicine, Section of Microbial
Pathogenesis, New Haven, Connecticut 06536-0812, USA.

The facultative intracellular pathogen Salmonella enterica resides within a
membrane-bound compartment inside macrophages. This compartment must be acidified
for Salmonella to survive within macrophages, possibly because acidic pH promotes
expression of Salmonella virulence proteins. We reasoned that Salmonella might
sense its surroundings have turned acidic not only upon protonation of the
extracytoplasmic domain of a protein sensor but also by an increase in cytosolic 
ATP levels, because conditions that enhance the proton gradient across the
bacterial inner membrane stimulate ATP synthesis. Here we report that an increase
in cytosolic ATP promotes transcription of the coding region for the virulence
gene mgtC, which is the most highly induced horizontally acquired gene when
Salmonella is inside macrophages. This transcript is induced both upon media
acidification and by physiological conditions that increase ATP levels
independently of acidification. ATP is sensed by the coupling/uncoupling of
transcription of the unusually long mgtC leader messenger RNA and translation of 
a short open reading frame located in this region. A mutation in the mgtC leader 
messenger RNA that eliminates the response to ATP hinders mgtC expression inside 
macrophages and attenuates Salmonella virulence in mice. Our results define a
singular example of an ATP-sensing leader messenger RNA. Moreover, they indicate 
that pathogens can interpret extracellular cues by the impact they have on
cellular metabolites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11090 
PMCID: PMC3711680
PMID: 22699622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):261-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11208.

Autistic-like social behaviour in Shank2-mutant mice improved by restoring NMDA
receptor function.

Won H(1), Lee HR, Gee HY, Mah W, Kim JI, Lee J, Ha S, Chung C, Jung ES, Cho YS,
Park SG, Lee JS, Lee K, Kim D, Bae YC, Kaang BK, Lee MG, Kim E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, KAIST, Daejeon 305-701, Korea.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Jul;11(7):518.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a group of conditions characterized by impaired
social interaction and communication, and restricted and repetitive behaviours.
ASD is a highly heritable disorder involving various genetic determinants. Shank2
(also known as ProSAP1) is a multi-domain scaffolding protein and signalling
adaptor enriched at excitatory neuronal synapses, and mutations in the human
SHANK2 gene have recently been associated with ASD and intellectual disability.
Although ASD-associated genes are being increasingly identified and studied using
various approaches, including mouse genetics, further efforts are required to
delineate important causal mechanisms with the potential for therapeutic
application. Here we show that Shank2-mutant (Shank2(-/-)) mice carrying a
mutation identical to the ASD-associated microdeletion in the human SHANK2 gene
exhibit ASD-like behaviours including reduced social interaction, reduced social 
communication by ultrasonic vocalizations, and repetitive jumping. These mice
show a marked decrease in NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) glutamate receptor (NMDAR) 
function. Direct stimulation of NMDARs with D-cycloserine, a partial agonist of
NMDARs, normalizes NMDAR function and improves social interaction in Shank2(-/-) 
mice. Furthermore, treatment of Shank2(-/-) mice with a positive allosteric
modulator of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), which enhances NMDAR
function via mGluR5 activation, also normalizes NMDAR function and markedly
enhances social interaction. These results suggest that reduced NMDAR function
may contribute to the development of ASD-like phenotypes in Shank2(-/-) mice, and
mGluR modulation of NMDARs offers a potential strategy to treat ASD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11208 
PMID: 22699620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):247-50. doi: 10.1038/nature11080.

Acanthodes and shark-like conditions in the last common ancestor of modern
gnathostomes.

Davis SP(1), Finarelli JA, Coates MI.

Author information: 
(1)UCD School of Biology and Environmental Science, University College Dublin,
Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland.

Acanthodians, an exclusively Palaeozoic group of fish, are central to a renewed
debate on the origin of modern gnathostomes: jawed vertebrates comprising
Chondrichthyes (sharks, rays and ratfish) and Osteichthyes (bony fishes and
tetrapods). Acanthodian internal anatomy is primarily understood from Acanthodes 
bronni because it remains the only example preserved in substantial detail,
central to which is an ostensibly osteichthyan braincase. For this reason,
Acanthodes has become an indispensible component in early gnathostome
phylogenies. Here we present a new description of the Acanthodes braincase,
yielding new details of external and internal morphology, notably the regions
surrounding and within the ear capsule and neurocranial roof. These data
contribute to a new reconstruction that, unexpectedly, resembles early
chondrichthyan crania. Principal coordinates analysis of a character-taxon matrix
including these new data confirms this impression: Acanthodes is quantifiably
closer to chondrichthyans than to osteichthyans. However, phylogenetic analysis
places Acanthodes on the osteichthyan stem, as part of a well-resolved tree that 
also recovers acanthodians as stem chondrichthyans and stem gnathostomes. As
such, perceived chondrichthyan features of the Acanthodes cranium represent
shared primitive conditions for crown group gnathostomes. Moreover, this
increasingly detailed picture of early gnathostome evolution highlights ongoing
and profound anatomical reorganization of vertebrate crania after the origin of
jaws but before the divergence of living clades.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11080 
PMID: 22699617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):243-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11074.

'Big Bang' tomography as a new route to atomic-resolution electron tomography.

Van Dyck D(1), Jinschek JR, Chen FR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Antwerp, Groenenborgerlaan 171, B2020 Antwerp, Belgium.
dirk.vandyck@ua.ac.be

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 20;489(7416):460. Jinschek, Joerg R [added].

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 14;486(7402):197-8.

Until now it has not been possible to image at atomic resolution using classical 
electron tomographic methods, except when the target is a perfectly crystalline
nano-object imaged along a few zone axes. The main reasons are that mechanical
tilting in an electron microscope with sub-ångström precision over a very large
angular range is difficult, that many real-life objects such as dielectric layers
in microelectronic devices impose geometrical constraints and that many
radiation-sensitive objects such as proteins limit the total electron dose.
Hence, there is a need for a new tomographic scheme that is able to deduce
three-dimensional information from only one or a few projections. Here we present
an electron tomographic method that can be used to determine, from only one
viewing direction and with sub-ångström precision, both the position of
individual atoms in the plane of observation and their vertical position. The
concept is based on the fact that an experimentally reconstructed exit wave
consists of the superposition of the spherical waves that have been scattered by 
the individual atoms of the object. Furthermore, the phase of a Fourier component
of a spherical wave increases with the distance of propagation at a known 'phase 
speed'. If we assume that an atom is a point-like object, the relationship
between the phase and the phase speed of each Fourier component is linear, and
the distance between the atom and the plane of observation can therefore be
determined by linear fitting. This picture has similarities with Big Bang
cosmology, in which the Universe expands from a point-like origin such that the
distance of any galaxy from the origin is linearly proportional to the speed at
which it moves away from the origin (Hubble expansion). The proof of concept of
the method has been demonstrated experimentally for graphene with a two-layer
structure and it will work optimally for similar layered materials, such as boron
nitride and molybdenum disulphide.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11074 
PMID: 22699616 


522. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):237-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11165.

Possible tropical lakes on Titan from observations of dark terrain.

Griffith CA(1), Lora JM, Turner J, Penteado PF, Brown RH, Tomasko MG, Doose L,
See C.

Author information: 
(1)Lunar and Planetary Laboratory, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, 
USA. griffith@lpl.arizona.edu

Titan has clouds, rain and lakes--like Earth--but composed of methane rather than
water. Unlike Earth, most of the condensable methane (the equivalent of 5 m depth
globally averaged) lies in the atmosphere. Liquid detected on the surface (about 
2 m deep) has been found by radar images only poleward of 50° latitude, while
dune fields pervade the tropics. General circulation models explain this
dichotomy, predicting that methane efficiently migrates to the poles from these
lower latitudes. Here we report an analysis of near-infrared spectral images of
the region between 20° N and 20° S latitude. The data reveal that the lowest
fluxes in seven wavelength bands that probe Titan's surface occur in an oval
region of about 60 × 40 km(2), which has been observed repeatedly since 2004.
Radiative transfer analyses demonstrate that the resulting spectrum is consistent
with a black surface, indicative of liquid methane on the surface. Enduring
low-latitude lakes are best explained as supplied by subterranean sources (within
the last 10,000 years), which may be responsible for Titan's methane, the
continual photochemical depletion of which furnishes Titan's organic chemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11165 
PMID: 22699614 


523. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11073.

The intense starburst HDF 850.1 in a galaxy overdensity at z ≈ 5.2 in the Hubble 
Deep Field.

Walter F(1), Decarli R, Carilli C, Bertoldi F, Cox P, Da Cunha E, Daddi E,
Dickinson M, Downes D, Elbaz D, Ellis R, Hodge J, Neri R, Riechers DA, Weiss A,
Bell E, Dannerbauer H, Krips M, Krumholz M, Lentati L, Maiolino R, Menten K, Rix 
HW, Robertson B, Spinrad H, Stark DP, Stern D.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117, Heidelberg,
Germany. walter@mpia.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 14;486(7402):199-200.

The Hubble Deep Field provides one of the deepest multiwavelength views of the
distant Universe and has led to the detection of thousands of galaxies seen
throughout cosmic time. An early map of the Hubble Deep Field at a wavelength of 
850 micrometres, which is sensitive to dust emission powered by star formation,
revealed the brightest source in the field, dubbed HDF 850.1 (ref. 2). For more
than a decade, and despite significant efforts, no counterpart was found at
shorter wavelengths, and it was not possible to determine its redshift, size or
mass. Here we report a redshift of z = 5.183 for HDF 850.1, from a
millimetre-wave molecular line scan. This places HDF 850.1 in a galaxy
overdensity at z ≈ 5.2, corresponding to a cosmic age of only 1.1 billion years
after the Big Bang. This redshift is significantly higher than earlier estimates 
and higher than those of most of the hundreds of submillimetre-bright galaxies
identified so far. The source has a star-formation rate of 850 solar masses per
year and is spatially resolved on scales of 5 kiloparsecs, with an implied
dynamical mass of about 1.3 × 10(11) solar masses, a significant fraction of
which is present in the form of molecular gas. Despite our accurate determination
of redshift and position, a counterpart emitting starlight remains elusive.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11073 
PMID: 22699613 


524. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):215-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11209.

A framework for human microbiome research.

Human Microbiome Project Consortium.

Collaborators: Methé BA, Nelson KE, Pop M, Creasy HH, Giglio MG, Huttenhower C,
Gevers D, Petrosino JF, Abubucker S, Badger JH, Chinwalla AT, Earl AM, FitzGerald
MG, Fulton RS, Hallsworth-Pepin K, Lobos EA, Madupu R, Magrini V, Martin JC,
Mitreva M, Muzny DM, Sodergren EJ, Versalovic J, Wollam AM, Worley KC, Wortman
JR, Young SK, Zeng Q, Aagaard KM, Abolude OO, Allen-Vercoe E, Alm EJ, Alvarado L,
Andersen GL, Anderson S, Appelbaum E, Arachchi HM, Armitage G, Arze CA, Ayvaz T, 
Baker CC, Begg L, Belachew T, Bhonagiri V, Bihan M, Blaser MJ, Bloom T, Bonazzi
VR, Brooks P, Buck GA, Buhay CJ, Busam DA, Campbell JL, Canon SR, Cantarel BL,
Chain PS, Chen IM, Chen L, Chhibba S, Chu K, Ciulla DM, Clemente JC, Clifton SW, 
Conlan S, Crabtree J, Cutting MA, Davidovics NJ, Davis CC, DeSantis TZ, Deal C,
Delehaunty KD, Dewhirst FE, Deych E, Ding Y, Dooling DJ, Dugan SP, Dunne W Jr,
Durkin A, Edgar RC, Erlich RL, Farmer CN, Farrell RM, Faust K, Feldgarden M,
Felix VM, Fisher S, Fodor AA, Forney L, Foster L, Di Francesco V, Friedman J,
Friedrich DC, Fronick CC, Fulton LL, Gao H, Garcia N, Giannoukos G, Giblin C,
Giovanni MY, Goldberg JM, Goll J, Gonzalez A, Griggs A, Gujja S, Haas BJ,
Hamilton HA, Harris EL, Hepburn TA, Herter B, Hoffmann DE, Holder ME, Howarth C, 
Huang KH, Huse SM, Izard J, Jansson JK, Jiang H, Jordan C, Joshi V, Katancik JA, 
Keitel WA, Kelley ST, Kells C, Kinder-Haake S, King NB, Knight R, Knights D, Kong
HH, Koren O, Koren S, Kota KC, Kovar CL, Kyrpides NC, La Rosa PS, Lee SL, Lemon
KP, Lennon N, Lewis CM, Lewis L, Ley RE, Li K, Liolios K, Liu B, Liu Y, Lo CC,
Lozupone CA, Lunsford R, Madden T, Mahurkar AA, Mannon PJ, Mardis ER, Markowitz
VM, Mavrommatis K, McCorrison JM, McDonald D, McEwen J, McGuire AL, McInnes P,
Mehta T, Mihindukulasuriya KA, Miller JR, Minx PJ, Newsham I, Nusbaum C,
O'Laughlin M, Orvis J, Pagani I, Palaniappan K, Patel SM, Pearson M, Peterson J, 
Podar M, Pohl C, Pollard KS, Priest ME, Proctor LM, Qin X, Raes J, Ravel J, Reid 
JG, Rho M, Rhodes R, Riehle KP, Rivera MC, Rodriguez-Mueller B, Rogers YH, Ross
MC, Russ C, Sanka RK, Sankar P, Sathirapongsasuti J, Schloss JA, Schloss PD,
Schmidt TM, Scholz M, Schriml L, Schubert AM, Segata N, Segre JA, Shannon WD,
Sharp RR, Sharpton TJ, Shenoy N, Sheth NU, Simone GA, Singh I, Smillie CS, Sobel 
JD, Sommer DD, Spicer P, Sutton GG, Sykes SM, Tabbaa DG, Thiagarajan M, Tomlinson
CM, Torralba M, Treangen TJ, Truty RM, Vishnivetskaya TA, Walker J, Wang L, Wang 
Z, Ward DV, Warren W, Watson MA, Wellington C, Wetterstrand KA, White JR,
Wilczek-Boney K, Wu YQ, Wylie KM, Wylie T, Yandava C, Ye L, Ye Y, Yooseph S,
Youmans BP, Zhang L, Zhou Y, Zhu Y, Zoloth L, Zucker JD, Birren BW, Gibbs RA,
Highlander SK, Weinstock GM, Wilson RK, White O.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 14;486(7402):194-5.

A variety of microbial communities and their genes (the microbiome) exist
throughout the human body, with fundamental roles in human health and disease.
The National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded Human Microbiome Project
Consortium has established a population-scale framework to develop metagenomic
protocols, resulting in a broad range of quality-controlled resources and data
including standardized methods for creating, processing and interpreting distinct
types of high-throughput metagenomic data available to the scientific community. 
Here we present resources from a population of 242 healthy adults sampled at 15
or 18 body sites up to three times, which have generated 5,177 microbial
taxonomic profiles from 16S ribosomal RNA genes and over 3.5 terabases of
metagenomic sequence so far. In parallel, approximately 800 reference strains
isolated from the human body have been sequenced. Collectively, these data
represent the largest resource describing the abundance and variety of the human 
microbiome, while providing a framework for current and future studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11209 
PMCID: PMC3377744
PMID: 22699610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):207-14. doi: 10.1038/nature11234.

Structure, function and diversity of the healthy human microbiome.

Human Microbiome Project Consortium.

Collaborators: Huttenhower C, Gevers D, Knight R, Abubucker S, Badger JH,
Chinwalla AT, Creasy HH, Earl AM, FitzGerald MG, Fulton RS, Giglio MG,
Hallsworth-Pepin K, Lobos EA, Madupu R, Magrini V, Martin JC, Mitreva M, Muzny
DM, Sodergren EJ, Versalovic J, Wollam AM, Worley KC, Wortman JR, Young SK, Zeng 
Q, Aagaard KM, Abolude OO, Allen-Vercoe E, Alm EJ, Alvarado L, Andersen GL,
Anderson S, Appelbaum E, Arachchi HM, Armitage G, Arze CA, Ayvaz T, Baker CC,
Begg L, Belachew T, Bhonagiri V, Bihan M, Blaser MJ, Bloom T, Bonazzi V, Brooks
J, Buck GA, Buhay CJ, Busam DA, Campbell JL, Canon SR, Cantarel BL, Chain PS,
Chen IM, Chen L, Chhibba S, Chu K, Ciulla DM, Clemente JC, Clifton SW, Conlan S, 
Crabtree J, Cutting MA, Davidovics NJ, Davis CC, DeSantis TZ, Deal C, Delehaunty 
KD, Dewhirst FE, Deych E, Ding Y, Dooling DJ, Dugan SP, Dunne WM, Durkin A, Edgar
RC, Erlich RL, Farmer CN, Farrell RM, Faust K, Feldgarden M, Felix VM, Fisher S, 
Fodor AA, Forney LJ, Foster L, Di Francesco V, Friedman J, Friedrich DC, Fronick 
CC, Fulton LL, Gao H, Garcia N, Giannoukos G, Giblin C, Giovanni MY, Goldberg JM,
Goll J, Gonzalez A, Griggs A, Gujja S, Haake SK, Haas BJ, Hamilton HA, Harris EL,
Hepburn TA, Herter B, Hoffmann DE, Holder ME, Howarth C, Huang KH, Huse SM, Izard
J, Jansson JK, Jiang H, Jordan C, Joshi V, Katancik JA, Keitel WA, Kelley ST,
Kells C, King NB, Knights D, Kong HH, Koren O, Koren S, Kota KC, Kovar CL,
Kyrpides NC, La Rosa PS, Lee SL, Lemon KP, Lennon N, Lewis CM, Lewis L, Ley RE,
Li K, Liolios K, Liu B, Liu Y, Lo CC, Lozupone CA, Lunsford R, Madden T, Mahurkar
AA, Mannon PJ, Mardis ER, Markowitz VM, Mavromatis K, McCorrison JM, McDonald D, 
McEwen J, McGuire AL, McInnes P, Mehta T, Mihindukulasuriya KA, Miller JR, Minx
PJ, Newsham I, Nusbaum C, O'Laughlin M, Orvis J, Pagani I, Palaniappan K, Patel
SM, Pearson M, Peterson J, Podar M, Pohl C, Pollard KS, Pop M, Priest ME, Proctor
LM, Qin X, Raes J, Ravel J, Reid JG, Rho M, Rhodes R, Riehle KP, Rivera MC,
Rodriguez-Mueller B, Rogers YH, Ross MC, Russ C, Sanka RK, Sankar P,
Sathirapongsasuti J, Schloss JA, Schloss PD, Schmidt TM, Scholz M, Schriml L,
Schubert AM, Segata N, Segre JA, Shannon WD, Sharp RR, Sharpton TJ, Shenoy N,
Sheth NU, Simone GA, Singh I, Smillie CS, Sobel JD, Sommer DD, Spicer P, Sutton
GG, Sykes SM, Tabbaa DG, Thiagarajan M, Tomlinson CM, Torralba M, Treangen TJ,
Truty RM, Vishnivetskaya TA, Walker J, Wang L, Wang Z, Ward DV, Warren W, Watson 
MA, Wellington C, Wetterstrand KA, White JR, Wilczek-Boney K, Wu Y, Wylie KM,
Wylie T, Yandava C, Ye L, Ye Y, Yooseph S, Youmans BP, Zhang L, Zhou Y, Zhu Y,
Zoloth L, Zucker JD, Birren BW, Gibbs RA, Highlander SK, Methé BA, Nelson KE,
Petrosino JF, Weinstock GM, Wilson RK, White O.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 14;486(7402):194-5.

Studies of the human microbiome have revealed that even healthy individuals
differ remarkably in the microbes that occupy habitats such as the gut, skin and 
vagina. Much of this diversity remains unexplained, although diet, environment,
host genetics and early microbial exposure have all been implicated. Accordingly,
to characterize the ecology of human-associated microbial communities, the Human 
Microbiome Project has analysed the largest cohort and set of distinct,
clinically relevant body habitats so far. We found the diversity and abundance of
each habitat's signature microbes to vary widely even among healthy subjects,
with strong niche specialization both within and among individuals. The project
encountered an estimated 81-99% of the genera, enzyme families and community
configurations occupied by the healthy Western microbiome. Metagenomic carriage
of metabolic pathways was stable among individuals despite variation in community
structure, and ethnic/racial background proved to be one of the strongest
associations of both pathways and microbes with clinical metadata. These results 
thus delineate the range of structural and functional configurations normal in
the microbial communities of a healthy population, enabling future
characterization of the epidemiology, ecology and translational applications of
the human microbiome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11234 
PMCID: PMC3564958
PMID: 22699609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Nature. 2012 Jun 13;486(7402):201-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11204.

Visualizing heavy fermions emerging in a quantum critical Kondo lattice.

Aynajian P(1), da Silva Neto EH, Gyenis A, Baumbach RE, Thompson JD, Fisk Z,
Bauer ED, Yazdani A.

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Henry Laboratories and Department of Physics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

In solids containing elements with f orbitals, the interaction between f-electron
spins and those of itinerant electrons leads to the development of low-energy
fermionic excitations with a heavy effective mass. These excitations are
fundamental to the appearance of unconventional superconductivity and
non-Fermi-liquid behaviour observed in actinide- and lanthanide-based compounds. 
Here we use spectroscopic mapping with the scanning tunnelling microscope to
detect the emergence of heavy excitations with lowering of temperature in a
prototypical family of cerium-based heavy-fermion compounds. We demonstrate the
sensitivity of the tunnelling process to the composite nature of these heavy
quasiparticles, which arises from quantum entanglement of itinerant conduction
and f electrons. Scattering and interference of the composite quasiparticles is
used to resolve their energy-momentum structure and to extract their mass
enhancement, which develops with decreasing temperature. The lifetime of the
emergent heavy quasiparticles reveals signatures of enhanced scattering and their
spectral lineshape shows evidence of energy-temperature scaling. These findings
demonstrate that proximity to a quantum critical point results in critical
damping of the emergent heavy excitation of our Kondo lattice system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11204 
PMID: 22699608 


527. Nature. 2012 Jun 10;486(7403):361-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11159.

Large-scale prediction and testing of drug activity on side-effect targets.

Lounkine E(1), Keiser MJ, Whitebread S, Mikhailov D, Hamon J, Jenkins JL, Lavan
P, Weber E, Doak AK, Côté S, Shoichet BK, Urban L.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):326-7.

Discovering the unintended 'off-targets' that predict adverse drug reactions is
daunting by empirical methods alone. Drugs can act on several protein targets,
some of which can be unrelated by conventional molecular metrics, and hundreds of
proteins have been implicated in side effects. Here we use a computational
strategy to predict the activity of 656 marketed drugs on 73 unintended
'side-effect' targets. Approximately half of the predictions were confirmed,
either from proprietary databases unknown to the method or by new experimental
assays. Affinities for these new off-targets ranged from 1 nM to 30 μM. To
explore relevance, we developed an association metric to prioritize those new
off-targets that explained side effects better than any known target of a given
drug, creating a drug-target-adverse drug reaction network. Among these new
associations was the prediction that the abdominal pain side effect of the
synthetic oestrogen chlorotrianisene was mediated through its newly discovered
inhibition of the enzyme cyclooxygenase-1. The clinical relevance of this
inhibition was borne out in whole human blood platelet aggregation assays. This
approach may have wide application to de-risking toxicological liabilities in
drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11159 
PMCID: PMC3383642
PMID: 22722194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Nature. 2012 Jun 10;486(7403):353-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11143.

Whole-genome analysis informs breast cancer response to aromatase inhibition.

Ellis MJ(1), Ding L, Shen D, Luo J, Suman VJ, Wallis JW, Van Tine BA, Hoog J,
Goiffon RJ, Goldstein TC, Ng S, Lin L, Crowder R, Snider J, Ballman K, Weber J,
Chen K, Koboldt DC, Kandoth C, Schierding WS, McMichael JF, Miller CA, Lu C,
Harris CC, McLellan MD, Wendl MC, DeSchryver K, Allred DC, Esserman L, Unzeitig
G, Margenthaler J, Babiera GV, Marcom PK, Guenther JM, Leitch M, Hunt K, Olson J,
Tao Y, Maher CA, Fulton LL, Fulton RS, Harrison M, Oberkfell B, Du F, Demeter R, 
Vickery TL, Elhammali A, Piwnica-Worms H, McDonald S, Watson M, Dooling DJ, Ota
D, Chang LW, Bose R, Ley TJ, Piwnica-Worms D, Stuart JM, Wilson RK, Mardis ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University, 
St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2012;14(5):323.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Aug;13(8):520.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):328-9.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Aug;12(8):507.

To correlate the variable clinical features of oestrogen-receptor-positive breast
cancer with somatic alterations, we studied pretreatment tumour biopsies accrued 
from patients in two studies of neoadjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy by
massively parallel sequencing and analysis. Eighteen significantly mutated genes 
were identified, including five genes (RUNX1, CBFB, MYH9, MLL3 and SF3B1)
previously linked to haematopoietic disorders. Mutant MAP3K1 was associated with 
luminal A status, low-grade histology and low proliferation rates, whereas mutant
TP53 was associated with the opposite pattern. Moreover, mutant GATA3 correlated 
with suppression of proliferation upon aromatase inhibitor treatment. Pathway
analysis demonstrated that mutations in MAP2K4, a MAP3K1 substrate, produced
similar perturbations as MAP3K1 loss. Distinct phenotypes in
oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer are associated with specific patterns
of somatic mutations that map into cellular pathways linked to tumour biology,
but most recurrent mutations are relatively infrequent. Prospective clinical
trials based on these findings will require comprehensive genome sequencing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11143 
PMCID: PMC3383766
PMID: 22722193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):109-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11145.

International trade drives biodiversity threats in developing nations.

Lenzen M(1), Moran D, Kanemoto K, Foran B, Lobefaro L, Geschke A.

Author information: 
(1)ISA, School of Physics A28, The University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006,
Australia. m.lenzen@physics.usyd.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 7;486(7401):36-7.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):473.
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):39.

Human activities are causing Earth's sixth major extinction event-an accelerating
decline of the world's stocks of biological diversity at rates 100 to 1,000 times
pre-human levels. Historically, low-impact intrusion into species habitats arose 
from local demands for food, fuel and living space. However, in today's
increasingly globalized economy, international trade chains accelerate habitat
degradation far removed from the place of consumption. Although adverse effects
of economic prosperity and economic inequality have been confirmed, the
importance of international trade as a driver of threats to species is poorly
understood. Here we show that a significant number of species are threatened as a
result of international trade along complex routes, and that, in particular,
consumers in developed countries cause threats to species through their demand of
commodities that are ultimately produced in developing countries. We linked
25,000 Animalia species threat records from the International Union for
Conservation of Nature Red List to more than 15,000 commodities produced in 187
countries and evaluated more than 5 billion supply chains in terms of their
biodiversity impacts. Excluding invasive species, we found that 30% of global
species threats are due to international trade. In many developed countries, the 
consumption of imported coffee, tea, sugar, textiles, fish and other manufactured
items causes a biodiversity footprint that is larger abroad than at home. Our
results emphasize the importance of examining biodiversity loss as a global
systemic phenomenon, instead of looking at the degrading or polluting producers
in isolation. We anticipate that our findings will facilitate better regulation, 
sustainable supply-chain certification and consumer product labelling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11145 
PMID: 22678290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11141.

Early differentiation and volatile accretion recorded in deep-mantle neon and
xenon.

Mukhopadhyay S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. sujoy@eps.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 7;486(7401):40-1.

The isotopes (129)Xe, produced from the radioactive decay of extinct (129)I, and 
(136)Xe, produced from extinct (244)Pu and extant (238)U, have provided important
constraints on early mantle outgassing and volatile loss from Earth. The low
ratios of radiogenic to non-radiogenic xenon ((129)Xe/(130)Xe) in ocean island
basalts (OIBs) compared with mid-ocean-ridge basalts (MORBs) have been used as
evidence for the existence of a relatively undegassed primitive deep-mantle
reservoir. However, the low (129)Xe/(130)Xe ratios in OIBs have also been
attributed to mixing between subducted atmospheric Xe and MORB Xe, which obviates
the need for a less degassed deep-mantle reservoir. Here I present new noble gas 
(He, Ne, Ar, Xe) measurements from an Icelandic OIB that reveal differences in
elemental abundances and (20)Ne/(22)Ne ratios between the Iceland mantle plume
and the MORB source. These observations show that the lower (129)Xe/(130)Xe
ratios in OIBs are due to a lower I/Xe ratio in the OIB mantle source and cannot 
be explained solely by mixing atmospheric Xe with MORB-type Xe. Because (129)I
became extinct about 100 million years after the formation of the Solar System,
OIB and MORB mantle sources must have differentiated by 4.45 billion years ago
and subsequent mixing must have been limited. The Iceland plume source also has a
higher proportion of Pu- to U-derived fission Xe, requiring the plume source to
be less degassed than MORBs, a conclusion that is independent of noble gas
concentrations and the partitioning behaviour of the noble gases with respect to 
their radiogenic parents. Overall, these results show that Earth's mantle
accreted volatiles from at least two separate sources and that neither the
Moon-forming impact nor 4.45 billion years of mantle convection has erased the
signature of Earth's heterogeneous accretion and early differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11141 
PMID: 22678288 


531. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):97-100. doi: 10.1038/nature11200.

Late Miocene decoupling of oceanic warmth and atmospheric carbon dioxide forcing.

LaRiviere JP(1), Ravelo AC, Crimmins A, Dekens PS, Ford HL, Lyle M, Wara MW.

Author information: 
(1)Ocean Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz, California
95064, USA. jlarivie@ucsc.edu

Deep-time palaeoclimate studies are vitally important for developing a complete
understanding of climate responses to changes in the atmospheric carbon dioxide
concentration (that is, the atmospheric partial pressure of CO(2), p(co(2))).
Although past studies have explored these responses during portions of the
Cenozoic era (the most recent 65.5 million years (Myr) of Earth history),
comparatively little is known about the climate of the late Miocene (∼12-5 Myr
ago), an interval with p(co(2)) values of only 200-350 parts per million by
volume but nearly ice-free conditions in the Northern Hemisphere and
warmer-than-modern temperatures on the continents. Here we present quantitative
geochemical sea surface temperature estimates from the Miocene mid-latitude North
Pacific Ocean, and show that oceanic warmth persisted throughout the interval of 
low p(co(2)) ∼12-5 Myr ago. We also present new stable isotope measurements from 
the western equatorial Pacific that, in conjunction with previously published
data, reveal a long-term trend of thermocline shoaling in the equatorial Pacific 
since ∼13 Myr ago. We propose that a relatively deep global thermocline,
reductions in low-latitude gradients in sea surface temperature, and cloud and
water vapour feedbacks may help to explain the warmth of the late Miocene.
Additional shoaling of the thermocline after 5 Myr ago probably explains the
stronger coupling between p(co(2)), sea surface temperatures and climate that is 
characteristic of the more recent Pliocene and Pleistocene epochs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11200 
PMID: 22678287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):80-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11127.

Chemical genetic discovery of targets and anti-targets for cancer
polypharmacology.

Dar AC(1), Das TK, Shokat KM, Cagan RL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cellular and Molecular
Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Jul;11(7):515.

The complexity of cancer has led to recent interest in polypharmacological
approaches for developing kinase-inhibitor drugs; however, optimal
kinase-inhibition profiles remain difficult to predict. Using a Ret-kinase-driven
Drosophila model of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 and kinome-wide drug
profiling, here we identify that AD57 rescues oncogenic Ret-induced lethality,
whereas related Ret inhibitors imparted reduced efficacy and enhanced toxicity.
Drosophila genetics and compound profiling defined three pathways accounting for 
the mechanistic basis of efficacy and dose-limiting toxicity. Inhibition of Ret
plus Raf, Src and S6K was required for optimal animal survival, whereas
inhibition of the 'anti-target' Tor led to toxicity owing to release of negative 
feedback. Rational synthetic tailoring to eliminate Tor binding afforded AD80 and
AD81, compounds featuring balanced pathway inhibition, improved efficacy and low 
toxicity in Drosophila and mammalian multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 models. 
Combining kinase-focused chemistry, kinome-wide profiling and Drosophila genetics
provides a powerful systems pharmacology approach towards developing compounds
with a maximal therapeutic index.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11127 
PMCID: PMC3703503
PMID: 22678283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):68-73. doi: 10.1038/nature11157.

Securing natural capital and expanding equity to rescale civilization.

Ehrlich PR(1), Kareiva PM, Daily GC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
pre@stanford.edu

In biophysical terms, humanity has never been moving faster nor further from
sustainability than it is now. Our increasing population size and per capita
impacts are severely testing the ability of Earth to provide for peoples' most
basic needs. Awareness of these circumstances has grown tremendously, as has the 
sophistication of efforts to address them. But the complexity of the challenge
remains daunting. We explore prospects for transformative change in three
critical areas of sustainable development: achieving a sustainable population
size and securing vital natural capital, both in part through reducing inequity, 
and strengthening the societal leadership of academia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11157 
PMID: 22678281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):59-67. doi: 10.1038/nature11148.

Biodiversity loss and its impact on humanity.

Cardinale BJ(1), Duffy JE, Gonzalez A, Hooper DU, Perrings C, Venail P, Narwani
A, Mace GM, Tilman D, Wardle DA, Kinzig AP, Daily GC, Loreau M, Grace JB,
Larigauderie A, Srivastava DS, Naeem S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA. bradcard@umich.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):326.

The most unique feature of Earth is the existence of life, and the most
extraordinary feature of life is its diversity. Approximately 9 million types of 
plants, animals, protists and fungi inhabit the Earth. So, too, do 7 billion
people. Two decades ago, at the first Earth Summit, the vast majority of the
world's nations declared that human actions were dismantling the Earth's
ecosystems, eliminating genes, species and biological traits at an alarming rate.
This observation led to the question of how such loss of biological diversity
will alter the functioning of ecosystems and their ability to provide society
with the goods and services needed to prosper.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11148 
PMID: 22678280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):52-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11018.

Approaching a state shift in Earth's biosphere.

Barnosky AD(1), Hadly EA, Bascompte J, Berlow EL, Brown JH, Fortelius M, Getz WM,
Harte J, Hastings A, Marquet PA, Martinez ND, Mooers A, Roopnarine P, Vermeij G, 
Williams JW, Gillespie R, Kitzes J, Marshall C, Matzke N, Mindell DP, Revilla E, 
Smith AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA. barnosky@berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2013 May 30;497(7451):565.

Localized ecological systems are known to shift abruptly and irreversibly from
one state to another when they are forced across critical thresholds. Here we
review evidence that the global ecosystem as a whole can react in the same way
and is approaching a planetary-scale critical transition as a result of human
influence. The plausibility of a planetary-scale 'tipping point' highlights the
need to improve biological forecasting by detecting early warning signs of
critical transitions on global as well as local scales, and by detecting
feedbacks that promote such transitions. It is also necessary to address root
causes of how humans are forcing biological changes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11018 
PMID: 22678279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 2012 Jun 6;486(7401):43-51. doi: 10.1038/nature11115.

Electrocatalyst approaches and challenges for automotive fuel cells.

Debe MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)3M Fuel Cell Components Program, 3M Center, St Paul, Minnesota 55144, USA.
mkdebe1@mmm.com

Fuel cells powered by hydrogen from secure and renewable sources are the ideal
solution for non-polluting vehicles, and extensive research and development on
all aspects of this technology over the past fifteen years has delivered
prototype cars with impressive performances. But taking the step towards
successful commercialization requires oxygen reduction electrocatalysts--crucial 
components at the heart of fuel cells--that meet exacting performance targets. In
addition, these catalyst systems will need to be highly durable, fault-tolerant
and amenable to high-volume production with high yields and exceptional quality. 
Not all the catalyst approaches currently being pursued will meet those demands.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11115 
PMID: 22678278 


537. Nature. 2012 Jun 3;486(7403):415-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11093.

PGC7 binds histone H3K9me2 to protect against conversion of 5mC to 5hmC in early 
embryos.

Nakamura T(1), Liu YJ, Nakashima H, Umehara H, Inoue K, Matoba S, Tachibana M,
Ogura A, Shinkai Y, Nakano T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka University, Osaka 
565-0871, Japan. tnakamura@nagahama-i-bio.ac.jp

The modification of DNA by 5-methylcytosine (5mC) has essential roles in cell
differentiation and development through epigenetic gene regulation. 5mC can be
converted to another modified base, 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), by the tet
methylcytosine dioxygenase (Tet) family of enzymes. Notably, the balance between 
5hmC and 5mC in the genome is linked with cell-differentiation processes such as 
pluripotency and lineage commitment. We have previously reported that the
maternal factor PGC7 (also known as Dppa3, Stella) is required for the
maintenance of DNA methylation in early embryogenesis, and protects 5mC from
conversion to 5hmC in the maternal genome. Here we show that PGC7 protects 5mC
from Tet3-mediated conversion to 5hmC by binding to maternal chromatin containing
dimethylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me2) in mice. In addition, imprinted loci
that are marked with H3K9me2 in mature sperm are protected by PGC7 binding in
early embryogenesis. This type of regulatory mechanism could be involved in DNA
modifications in somatic cells as well as in early embryos.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11093 
PMID: 22722204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 2012 Jun 3;486(7402):240-2. doi: 10.1038/nature11123.

A signature of cosmic-ray increase in AD 774-775 from tree rings in Japan.

Miyake F(1), Nagaya K, Masuda K, Nakamura T.

Author information: 
(1)Solar-Terrestrial Environment Laboratory, Nagoya University, Chikusa-ku,
Nagoya 464-8601, Japan. fmiyake@stelab.nagoya-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Nov 29;491(7426):E1-2.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 28;486(7404):473.

Increases in (14)C concentrations in tree rings could be attributed to cosmic-ray
events, as have increases in (10)Be and nitrate in ice cores. The record of the
past 3,000 years in the IntCal09 data set, which is a time series at 5-year
intervals describing the (14)C content of trees over a period of approximately
10,000 years, shows three periods during which (14)C increased at a rate greater 
than 3‰ over 10 years. Two of these periods have been measured at high time
resolution, but neither showed increases on a timescale of about 1 year (refs 11 
and 12). Here we report (14)C measurements in annual rings of Japanese cedar
trees from ad 750 to ad 820 (the remaining period), with 1- and 2-year
resolution. We find a rapid increase of about 12‰ in the (14)C content from ad
774 to 775, which is about 20 times larger than the change attributed to ordinary
solar modulation. When averaged over 10 years, the data are consistent with the
decadal IntCal (14)C data from North American and European trees. We argue that
neither a solar flare nor a local supernova is likely to have been responsible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11123 
PMID: 22699615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):593-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11044.

In vivo reprogramming of murine cardiac fibroblasts into induced cardiomyocytes.

Qian L(1), Huang Y, Spencer CI, Foley A, Vedantham V, Liu L, Conway SJ, Fu JD,
Srivastava D.

Author information: 
(1)1Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California
94158, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Jul 6;11(1):3-4.
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2012 Aug 1;5(4):481-2.
    Circ Res. 2012 Sep 14;111(7):831-2.
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):585-6.

The reprogramming of adult cells into pluripotent cells or directly into
alternative adult cell types holds great promise for regenerative medicine. We
reported previously that cardiac fibroblasts,which represent 50%of the cells in
the mammalian heart, can be directly reprogrammed to adult cardiomyocyte-like
cells in vitro by the addition of Gata4, Mef2c and Tbx5 (GMT). Here we use
genetic lineage tracing to show that resident non-myocytes in the murine heart
can be reprogrammed into cardiomyocyte-like cells in vivo by local delivery of
GMT after coronary ligation. Induced cardiomyocytes became binucleate, assembled 
sarcomeres and had cardiomyocyte-like gene expression. Analysis of single cells
revealed ventricular cardiomyocyte-like action potentials, beating upon
electrical stimulation, and evidence of electrical coupling. In vivo delivery of 
GMT decreased infarct size and modestly attenuated cardiac dysfunction up to 3
months after coronary ligation. Delivery of the pro-angiogenic and
fibroblast-activating peptide, thymosin b4, along with GMT, resulted in further
improvements in scar area and cardiac function. These findings demonstrate that
cardiac fibroblasts can be reprogrammed into cardiomyocyte-like cells in their
native environment for potential regenerative purposes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11044 
PMCID: PMC3369107
PMID: 22522929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2012 May 30;486(7401):93-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11203.

Ultraviolet-radiation-induced methane emissions from meteorites and the Martian
atmosphere.

Keppler F(1), Vigano I, McLeod A, Ott U, Früchtl M, Röckmann T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric Chemistry, Max Planck Institute for Chemistry,
Hahn-Meitner-Weg 1, 55128 Mainz, Germany. frank.keppler@mpic.de

Almost a decade after methane was first reported in the atmosphere of Mars there 
is an intensive discussion about both the reliability of the
observations--particularly the suggested seasonal and latitudinal variations--and
the sources of methane on Mars. Given that the lifetime of methane in the Martian
atmosphere is limited, a process on or below the planet's surface would need to
be continuously producing methane. A biological source would provide support for 
the potential existence of life on Mars, whereas a chemical origin would imply
that there are unexpected geological processes. Methane release from carbonaceous
meteorites associated with ablation during atmospheric entry is considered
negligible. Here we show that methane is produced in much larger quantities from 
the Murchison meteorite (a type CM2 carbonaceous chondrite) when exposed to
ultraviolet radiation under conditions similar to those expected at the Martian
surface. Meteorites containing several per cent of intact organic matter reach
the Martian surface at high rates, and our experiments suggest that a significant
fraction of the organic matter accessible to ultraviolet radiation is converted
to methane. Ultraviolet-radiation-induced methane formation from meteorites could
explain a substantial fraction of the most recently estimated atmospheric methane
mixing ratios. Stable hydrogen isotope analysis unambiguously confirms that the
methane released from Murchison is of extraterrestrial origin. The stable carbon 
isotope composition, in contrast, is similar to that of terrestrial microbial
origin; hence, measurements of this signature in future Mars missions may not
enable an unambiguous identification of biogenic methane.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11203 
PMID: 22678286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Nature. 2012 May 30;486(7401):90-2. doi: 10.1038/nature11062.

The age of the Milky Way inner halo.

Kalirai JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Space Telescope Science Institute, 3700 San Martin Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 
21218, USA. jkalirai@stsci.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):684.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 7;486(7401):38-40.

The Milky Way galaxy has several components, such as the bulge, disk and halo.
Unravelling the assembly history of these stellar populations is often restricted
because of difficulties in measuring accurate ages for low-mass, hydrogen-burning
stars. Unlike these progenitors, white dwarf stars, the 'cinders' of stellar
evolution, are remarkably simple objects and their fundamental properties can be 
measured with little ambiguity. Here I report observations of newly formed white 
dwarf stars in the halo of the Milky Way, and a separate analysis of archival
data in the well studied 12.5-billion-year-old globular cluster Messier 4. I
measure the mass distribution of the remnant stars and invert the stellar
evolution process to develop a mathematical relation that links this final
stellar mass to the mass of their immediate progenitors, and therefore to the age
of the parent population. By applying this technique to a small sample of four
nearby and kinematically confirmed halo white dwarf stars, I calculate the age of
local field halo stars to be 11.4 ± 0.7 billion years. The oldest globular
clusters formed 13.5 billion years ago. Future observations of newly formed white
dwarf stars in the halo could be used to reduce the uncertainty, and to probe
relative differences between the formation times of the youngest globular
clusters and the inner halo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11062 
PMID: 22678285 


542. Nature. 2012 May 30;486(7401):74-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11094.

Cis-regulatory control of corticospinal system development and evolution.

Shim S(1), Kwan KY, Li M, Lefebvre V, Sestan N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.

The co-emergence of a six-layered cerebral neocortex and its corticospinal output
system is one of the evolutionary hallmarks of mammals. However, the genetic
programs that underlie their development and evolution remain poorly understood. 
Here we identify a conserved non-exonic element (E4) that acts as a
cortex-specific enhancer for the nearby gene Fezf2 (also known as Fezl and
Zfp312), which is required for the specification of corticospinal neuron identity
and connectivity. We find that SOX4 and SOX11 functionally compete with the
repressor SOX5 in the transactivation of E4. Cortex-specific double deletion of
Sox4 and Sox11 leads to the loss of Fezf2 expression, failed specification of
corticospinal neurons and, independent of Fezf2, a reeler-like inversion of
layers. We show evidence supporting the emergence of functional SOX-binding sites
in E4 during tetrapod evolution, and their subsequent stabilization in mammals
and possibly amniotes. These findings reveal that SOX transcription factors
converge onto a cis-acting element of Fezf2 and form critical components of a
regulatory network controlling the identity and connectivity of corticospinal
neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11094 
PMCID: PMC3375921
PMID: 22678282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 2012 May 30;485(7400):656-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11095.

Inhibitory receptors bind ANGPTLs and support blood stem cells and leukaemia
development.

Zheng J(1), Umikawa M, Cui C, Li J, Chen X, Zhang C, Huynh H, Kang X, Silvany R, 
Wan X, Ye J, Cantó AP, Chen SH, Wang HY, Ward ES, Zhang CC.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Physiology and Developmental Biology, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):684. Hyunh, Hoangdinh [corrected to Huynh,
HoangDinh].

How environmental cues regulate adult stem cell and cancer cell activity through 
surface receptors is poorly understood. Angiopoietin-like proteins (ANGPTLs), a
family of seven secreted glycoproteins, are known to support the activity of
haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in vitro and in vivo. ANGPTLs also have
important roles in lipid metabolism, angiogenesis and inflammation, but were
considered 'orphan ligands' because no receptors were identified. Here we show
that the immune-inhibitory receptor human leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor 
B2 (LILRB2) and its mouse orthologue paired immunoglobulin-like receptor (PIRB)
are receptors for several ANGPTLs. LILRB2 and PIRB are expressed on human and
mouse HSCs, respectively, and the binding of ANGPTLs to these receptors supported
ex vivo expansion of HSCs. In mouse transplantation acute myeloid leukaemia
models, a deficiency in intracellular signalling of PIRB resulted in increased
differentiation of leukaemia cells, revealing that PIRB supports leukaemia
development. Our study indicates an unexpected functional significance of
classical immune-inhibitory receptors in maintenance of stemness of normal adult 
stem cells and in support of cancer development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11095 
PMCID: PMC3367397
PMID: 22660330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2012 May 30;485(7400):635-41. doi: 10.1038/nature11119.

The tomato genome sequence provides insights into fleshy fruit evolution.

Tomato Genome Consortium.

Collaborators: Sato S, Tabata S, Hirakawa H, Asamizu E, Shirasawa K, Isobe S,
Kaneko T, Nakamura Y, Shibata D, Aoki K, Egholm M, Knight J, Bogden R, Li C,
Shuang Y, Xu X, Pan S, Cheng S, Liu X, Ren Y, Wang J, Albiero A, Dal Pero F,
Todesco S, Van Eck J, Buels RM, Bombarely A, Gosselin JR, Huang M, Leto JA, Menda
N, Strickler S, Mao L, Gao S, Tecle IY, York T, Zheng Y, Vrebalov JT, Lee J,
Zhong S, Mueller LA, Stiekema WJ, Ribeca P, Alioto T, Yang W, Huang S, Du Y,
Zhang Z, Gao J, Guo Y, Wang X, Li Y, He J, Li C, Cheng Z, Zuo J, Ren J, Zhao J,
Yan L, Jiang H, Wang B, Li H, Li Z, Fu F, Chen B, Feng Q, Fan D, Wang Y, Ling H, 
Xue Y, Ware D, McCombie WR, Lippman ZB, Chia JM, Jiang K, Pasternak S, Gelley L, 
Kramer M, Anderson LK, Chang SB, Royer SM, Shearer LA, Stack SM, Rose JK, Xu Y,
Eannetta N, Matas AJ, McQuinn R, Tanksley SD, Camara F, Guigó R, Rombauts S,
Fawcett J, Van de Peer Y, Zamir D, Liang C, Spannagl M, Gundlach H, Bruggmann R, 
Mayer K, Jia Z, Zhang J, Ye Z, Bishop GJ, Butcher S, Lopez-Cobollo R, Buchan D,
Filippis I, Abbott J, Dixit R, Singh M, Singh A, Pal JK, Pandit A, Singh PK,
Mahato AK, Gaikwad VD, Sharma RR, Mohapatra T, Singh NK, Causse M, Rothan C,
Schiex T, Noirot C, Bellec A, Klopp C, Delalande C, Berges H, Mariette J, Frasse 
P, Vautrin S, Zouine M, Latché A, Rousseau C, Regad F, Pech JC, Philippot M,
Bouzayen M, Pericard P, Osorio S, Fernandez del Carmen A, Monforte A, Granell A, 
Fernandez-Muñoz R, Conte M, Lichtenstein G, Carrari F, De Bellis G, Fuligni F,
Peano C, Grandillo S, Termolino P, Pietrella M, Fantini E, Falcone G, Fiore A,
Giuliano G, Lopez L, Facella P, Perotta G, Daddiego L, Bryan G, Orozco M, Pastor 
X, Torrents D, van Schriek MG, Feron RM, van Oeveren J, de Heer P, daPonte L,
Jacobs-Oomen S, Cariaso M, Prins M, van Eijk MJ, Janssen A, van Haaren MJ,
Jungeun Kim SH, Kwon SY, Kim S, Koo DH, Lee S, Hur CG, Clouser C, Rico A, Hallab 
A, Gebhardt C, Klee K, Jöcker A, Warfsmann J, Göbel U, Kawamura S, Yano K,
Sherman JD, Fukuoka H, Negoro S, Bhutty S, Chowdhury P, Chattopadhyay D, Datema
E, Smit S, Schijlen EG, van de Belt J, van Haarst JC, Peters SA, van Staveren MA,
Henkens MH, Mooyman PJ, Hesselink T, van Ham RC, Jiang G, Droege M, Choi D, Kang 
BC, Kim BD, Park M, Kim S, Yeom SI, Lee YH, Choi YD, Li G, Gao J, Liu Y, Huang S,
Fernandez-Pedrosa V, Collado C, Zuñiga S, Wang G, Cade R, Dietrich RA, Rogers J, 
Knapp S, Fei Z, White RA, Thannhauser TW, Giovannoni JJ, Botella MA, Gilbert L,
Gonzalez R, Goicoechea JL, Yu Y, Kudrna D, Collura K, Wissotski M, Wing R, Meyers
BC, Gurazada AB, Green PJ, Vyas SM, Solanke AU, Kumar R, Gupta V, Sharma AK,
Khurana P, Khurana JP, Tyagi AK, Dalmay T, Mohorianu I, Walts B, Chamala S,
Barbazuk WB, Li J, Guo H, Lee TH, Wang Y, Zhang D, Paterson AH, Wang X, Tang H,
Barone A, Chiusano ML, Ercolano MR, D'Agostino N, Di Filippo M, Traini A,
Sanseverino W, Frusciante L, Seymour GB, Elharam M, Fu Y, Hua A, Kenton S, Lewis 
J, Lin S, Najar F, Lai H, Qin B, Qu C, Shi R, White D, White J, Xing Y, Yang K,
Yi J, Yao Z, Zhou L, Roe BA, Vezzi A, D'Angelo M, Zimbello R, Schiavon R, Caniato
E, Rigobello C, Campagna D, Vitulo N, Valle G, Nelson DR, De Paoli E, Szinay D,
de Jong HH, Bai Y, Visser RG, Klein R, Beasley H, McLaren K, Nicholson C, Riddle 
C, Gianese G.

Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is a major crop plant and a model system for fruit 
development. Solanum is one of the largest angiosperm genera and includes annual 
and perennial plants from diverse habitats. Here we present a high-quality genome
sequence of domesticated tomato, a draft sequence of its closest wild relative,
Solanum pimpinellifolium, and compare them to each other and to the potato genome
(Solanum tuberosum). The two tomato genomes show only 0.6% nucleotide divergence 
and signs of recent admixture, but show more than 8% divergence from potato, with
nine large and several smaller inversions. In contrast to Arabidopsis, but
similar to soybean, tomato and potato small RNAs map predominantly to gene-rich
chromosomal regions, including gene promoters. The Solanum lineage has
experienced two consecutive genome triplications: one that is ancient and shared 
with rosids, and a more recent one. These triplications set the stage for the
neofunctionalization of genes controlling fruit characteristics, such as colour
and fleshiness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11119 
PMCID: PMC3378239
PMID: 22660326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Nature. 2012 May 30;485(7400):627-30. doi: 10.1038/nature11140.

Hafnium isotope evidence for a transition in the dynamics of continental growth
3.2 Gyr ago.

Næraa T(1), Scherstén A, Rosing MT, Kemp AI, Hoffmann JE, Kokfelt TF, Whitehouse 
MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland, GEUS, Øster Voldgade 10, 1350
Copenhagen K, Denmark. tomn@geus.dk

Earth's lithosphere probably experienced an evolution towards the modern plate
tectonic regime, owing to secular changes in mantle temperature. Radiogenic
isotope variations are interpreted as evidence for the declining rates of
continental crustal growth over time, with some estimates suggesting that over
70% of the present continental crustal reservoir was extracted by the end of the 
Archaean eon. Patterns of crustal growth and reworking in rocks younger than
three billion years (Gyr) are thought to reflect the assembly and break-up of
supercontinents by Wilson cycle processes and mark an important change in
lithosphere dynamics. In southern West Greenland numerous studies have, however, 
argued for subduction settings and crust growth by arc accretion back to 3.8 Gyr 
ago, suggesting that modern-day tectonic regimes operated during the formation of
the earliest crustal rock record. Here we report in situ uranium-lead, hafnium
and oxygen isotope data from zircons of basement rocks in southern West Greenland
across the critical time period during which modern-like tectonic regimes could
have initiated. Our data show pronounced differences in the hafnium isotope-time 
patterns across this interval, requiring changes in the characteristics of the
magmatic protolith. The observations suggest that 3.9-3.5-Gyr-old rocks
differentiated from a >3.9-Gyr-old source reservoir with a chondritic to slightly
depleted hafnium isotope composition. In contrast, rocks formed after 3.2 Gyr ago
register the first additions of juvenile depleted material (that is, new
mantle-derived crust) since 3.9 Gyr ago, and are characterized by striking shifts
in hafnium isotope ratios similar to those shown by Phanerozoic
subduction-related orogens. These data suggest a transitional period 3.5-3.2 Gyr 
ago from an ancient (3.9-3.5 Gyr old) crustal evolutionary regime unlike that of 
modern plate tectonics to a geodynamic setting after 3.2 Gyr ago that involved
juvenile crust generation by plate tectonic processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11140 
PMID: 22660324 


546. Nature. 2012 May 30;485(7400):623-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11075.

Complex shapes self-assembled from single-stranded DNA tiles.

Wei B(1), Dai M, Yin P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):584-5.
    Nat Methods. 2012 Jul;9(7):640-1.

Programmed self-assembly of strands of nucleic acid has proved highly effective
for creating a wide range of structures with desired shapes. A particularly
successful implementation is DNA origami, in which a long scaffold strand is
folded by hundreds of short auxiliary strands into a complex shape. Modular
strategies are in principle simpler and more versatile and have been used to
assemble DNA or RNA tiles into periodic and algorithmic two-dimensional lattices,
extended ribbons and tubes, three-dimensional crystals, polyhedra and simple
finite two-dimensional shapes. But creating finite yet complex shapes from a
large number of uniquely addressable tiles remains challenging. Here we solve
this problem with the simplest tile form, a 'single-stranded tile' (SST) that
consists of a 42-base strand of DNA composed entirely of concatenated sticky ends
and that binds to four local neighbours during self-assembly. Although ribbons
and tubes with controlled circumferences have been created using the SST
approach, we extend it to assemble complex two-dimensional shapes and tubes from 
hundreds (in some cases more than one thousand) distinct tiles. Our main design
feature is a self-assembled rectangle that serves as a molecular canvas, with
each of its constituent SST strands--folded into a 3 nm-by-7 nm tile and attached
to four neighbouring tiles--acting as a pixel. A desired shape, drawn on the
canvas, is then produced by one-pot annealing of all those strands that
correspond to pixels covered by the target shape; the remaining strands are
excluded. We implement the strategy with a master strand collection that
corresponds to a 310-pixel canvas, and then use appropriate strand subsets to
construct 107 distinct and complex two-dimensional shapes, thereby establishing
SST assembly as a simple, modular and robust framework for constructing
nanostructures with prescribed shapes from short synthetic DNA strands.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11075 
PMCID: PMC4238960
PMID: 22660323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2012 May 30;485(7400):611-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11092.

A spectrograph for exoplanet observations calibrated at the centimetre-per-second
level.

Wilken T(1), Curto GL, Probst RA, Steinmetz T, Manescau A, Pasquini L, González
Hernández JI, Rebolo R, Hänsch TW, Udem T, Holzwarth R.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, D-85748
Garching, Germany. tobias.wilken@mpq.mpg.de

The best spectrographs are limited in stability by their calibration light
source. Laser frequency combs are the ideal calibrators for astronomical
spectrographs. They emit a spectrum of lines that are equally spaced in frequency
and that are as accurate and stable as the atomic clock relative to which the
comb is stabilized. Absolute calibration provides the radial velocity of an
astronomical object relative to the observer (on Earth). For the detection of
Earth-mass exoplanets in Earth-like orbits around solar-type stars, or of cosmic 
acceleration, the observable is a tiny velocity change of less than 10 cm s(-1), 
where the repeatability of the calibration--the variation in stability across
observations--is important. Hitherto, only laboratory systems or spectrograph
calibrations of limited performance have been demonstrated. Here we report the
calibration of an astronomical spectrograph with a short-term Doppler shift
repeatability of 2.5 cm s(-1), and use it to monitor the star HD 75289 and
recompute the orbit of its planet. This repeatability should make it possible to 
detect Earth-like planets in the habitable zone of star or even to measure the
cosmic acceleration directly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11092 
PMID: 22660320 


548. Nature. 2012 May 27;486(7403):410-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11059.

Astrocyte glypicans 4 and 6 promote formation of excitatory synapses via GluA1
AMPA receptors.

Allen NJ(1), Bennett ML, Foo LC, Wang GX, Chakraborty C, Smith SJ, Barres BA.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Department of Neurobiology, 299 Campus
Drive, Fairchild Science Building D231, Stanford, California 94305-5125, USA.
nallen@salk.edu

In the developing central nervous system (CNS), the control of synapse number and
function is critical to the formation of neural circuits. We previously
demonstrated that astrocyte-secreted factors powerfully induce the formation of
functional excitatory synapses between CNS neurons. Astrocyte-secreted
thrombospondins induce the formation of structural synapses, but these synapses
are postsynaptically silent. Here we use biochemical fractionation of
astrocyte-conditioned medium to identify glypican 4 (Gpc4) and glypican 6 (Gpc6) 
as astrocyte-secreted signals sufficient to induce functional synapses between
purified retinal ganglion cell neurons, and show that depletion of these
molecules from astrocyte-conditioned medium significantly reduces its ability to 
induce postsynaptic activity. Application of Gpc4 to purified neurons is
sufficient to increase the frequency and amplitude of glutamatergic synaptic
events. This is achieved by increasing the surface level and clustering, but not 
overall cellular protein level, of the GluA1 subunit of the AMPA
(α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) glutamate receptor
(AMPAR). Gpc4 and Gpc6 are expressed by astrocytes in vivo in the developing CNS,
with Gpc4 expression enriched in the hippocampus and Gpc6 enriched in the
cerebellum. Finally, we demonstrate that Gpc4-deficient mice have defective
synapse formation, with decreased amplitude of excitatory synaptic currents in
the developing hippocampus and reduced recruitment of AMPARs to synapses. These
data identify glypicans as a family of novel astrocyte-derived molecules that are
necessary and sufficient to promote glutamate receptor clustering and receptivity
and to induce the formation of postsynaptically functioning CNS synapses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11059 
PMCID: PMC3383085
PMID: 22722203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7400):619-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11151.

Attractive and repulsive Fermi polarons in two dimensions.

Koschorreck M(1), Pertot D, Vogt E, Fröhlich B, Feld M, Köhl M.

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, UK. mk540@cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):588-9.

The dynamics of a single impurity in an environment is a fundamental problem in
many-body physics. In the solid state, a well known case is an impurity coupled
to a bosonic bath (such as lattice vibrations); the impurity and its accompanying
lattice distortion form a new entity, a polaron. This quasiparticle plays an
important role in the spectral function of high-transition-temperature
superconductors, as well as in colossal magnetoresistance in manganites. For
impurities in a fermionic bath, studies have considered heavy or immobile
impurities which exhibit Anderson's orthogonality catastrophe and the Kondo
effect. More recently, mobile impurities have moved into the focus of research,
and they have been found to form new quasiparticles known as Fermi polarons. The 
Fermi polaron problem constitutes the extreme, but conceptually simple, limit of 
two important quantum many-body problems: the crossover between a molecular
Bose-Einstein condensate and a superfluid with BCS (Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer)
pairing with spin-imbalance for attractive interactions, and Stoner's itinerant
ferromagnetism for repulsive interactions. It has been proposed that such quantum
phases (and other elusive exotic states) might become realizable in Fermi gases
confined to two dimensions. Their stability and observability are intimately
related to the theoretically debated properties of the Fermi polaron in a
two-dimensional Fermi gas. Here we create and investigate Fermi polarons in a
two-dimensional, spin-imbalanced Fermi gas, measuring their spectral function
using momentum-resolved photoemission spectroscopy. For attractive interactions, 
we find evidence for a disputed pairing transition between polarons and tightly
bound dimers, which provides insight into the elementary pairing mechanism of
imbalanced, strongly coupled two-dimensional Fermi gases. Additionally, for
repulsive interactions, we study novel quasiparticles--repulsive polarons--the
lifetime of which determines the possibility of stabilizing repulsively
interacting Fermi systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11151 
PMID: 22660322 


550. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7400):615-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11065.

Metastability and coherence of repulsive polarons in a strongly interacting Fermi
mixture.

Kohstall C(1), Zaccanti M, Jag M, Trenkwalder A, Massignan P, Bruun GM, Schreck
F, Grimm R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Quantenoptik und Quanteninformation, Österreichische Akademie der
Wissenschaften, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):588-9.

Ultracold Fermi gases with tunable interactions provide a test bed for exploring 
the many-body physics of strongly interacting quantum systems. Over the past
decade, experiments have investigated many intriguing phenomena, and precise
measurements of ground-state properties have provided benchmarks for the
development of theoretical descriptions. Metastable states in Fermi gases with
strong repulsive interactions represent an exciting area of development. The
realization of such systems is challenging, because a strong repulsive
interaction in an atomic quantum gas implies the existence of a weakly bound
molecular state, which makes the system intrinsically unstable against decay.
Here we use radio-frequency spectroscopy to measure the complete excitation
spectrum of fermionic (40)K impurities resonantly interacting with a Fermi sea of
(6)Li atoms. In particular, we show that a well-defined quasiparticle exists for 
strongly repulsive interactions. We measure the energy and the lifetime of this
'repulsive polaron', and probe its coherence properties by measuring the
quasiparticle residue. The results are well described by a theoretical approach
that takes into account the finite effective range of the interaction in our
system. We find that when the effective range is of the order of the
interparticle spacing, there is a substantial increase in the lifetime of the
quasiparticles. The existence of such a long-lived, metastable many-body state
offers intriguing prospects for the creation of exotic quantum phases in
ultracold, repulsively interacting Fermi gases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11065 
PMID: 22660321 


551. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7400):605-10. doi: 10.1038/nature11061.

The let-7-Imp axis regulates ageing of the Drosophila testis stem-cell niche.

Toledano H(1), D'Alterio C, Czech B, Levine E, Jones DL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Adult stem cells support tissue homeostasis and repair throughout the life of an 
individual. During ageing, numerous intrinsic and extrinsic changes occur that
result in altered stem-cell behaviour and reduced tissue maintenance and
regeneration. In the Drosophila testis, ageing results in a marked decrease in
the self-renewal factor Unpaired (Upd), leading to a concomitant loss of germline
stem cells. Here we demonstrate that IGF-II messenger RNA binding protein (Imp)
counteracts endogenous small interfering RNAs to stabilize upd (also known as os)
RNA. However, similar to upd, Imp expression decreases in the hub cells of older 
males, which is due to the targeting of Imp by the heterochronic microRNA let-7. 
In the absence of Imp, upd mRNA therefore becomes unprotected and susceptible to 
degradation. Understanding the mechanistic basis for ageing-related changes in
stem-cell behaviour will lead to the development of strategies to treat age-onset
diseases and facilitate stem-cell-based therapies in older individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11061 
PMCID: PMC4829122
PMID: 22660319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7399):522-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11051.

Cryptic peroxisomal targeting via alternative splicing and stop codon
read-through in fungi.

Freitag J(1), Ast J, Bölker M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Philipps University Marburg, Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 8,
D-35032 Marburg, Germany.

Peroxisomes are eukaryotic organelles important for the metabolism of long-chain 
fatty acids. Here we show that in numerous fungal species, several core enzymes
of glycolysis, including glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and
3-phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK), reside in both the cytoplasm and peroxisomes. We
detected in these enzymes cryptic type 1 peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS1),
which are activated by post-transcriptional processes. Notably, the molecular
mechanisms that generate the peroxisomal isoforms vary considerably among
different species. In the basidiomycete plant pathogen Ustilago maydis,
peroxisomal targeting of Pgk1 results from ribosomal read-through, whereas
alternative splicing generates the PTS1 of Gapdh. In the filamentous ascomycete
Aspergillus nidulans, peroxisomal targeting of these enzymes is achieved by
exactly the opposite mechanisms. We also detected PTS1 motifs in the glycolytic
enzymes triose-phosphate isomerase and fructose-bisphosphate aldolase. U. maydis 
mutants lacking the peroxisomal isoforms of Gapdh or Pgk1 showed reduced
virulence. In addition, mutational analysis suggests that GAPDH, together with
other peroxisomal NADH-dependent dehydrogenases, has a role in redox homeostasis.
Owing to its hidden nature, partial peroxisomal targeting of well-studied
cytoplasmic enzymes has remained undetected. Thus, we anticipate that further
bona fide cytoplasmic proteins exhibit similar dual targeting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11051 
PMID: 22622582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7399):498-501. doi: 10.1038/nature11135.

Discovery of a sensory organ that coordinates lunge feeding in rorqual whales.

Pyenson ND(1), Goldbogen JA, Vogl AW, Szathmary G, Drake RL, Shadwick RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian
Institution, PO Box 37012, Washington, District of Columbia 20013-7013, USA.
pyensonn@si.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):416.

Top ocean predators have evolved multiple solutions to the challenges of feeding 
in the water. At the largest scale, rorqual whales (Balaenopteridae) engulf and
filter prey-laden water by lunge feeding, a strategy that is unique among
vertebrates. Lunge feeding is facilitated by several morphological
specializations, including bilaterally separate jaws that loosely articulate with
the skull, hyper-expandable throat pleats, or ventral groove blubber, and a rigid
y-shaped fibrocartilage structure branching from the chin into the ventral groove
blubber. The linkages and functional coordination among these features, however, 
remain poorly understood. Here we report the discovery of a sensory organ
embedded within the fibrous symphysis between the unfused jaws that is present in
several rorqual species, at both fetal and adult stages. Vascular and nervous
tissue derived from the ancestral, anterior-most tooth socket insert into this
organ, which contains connective tissue and papillae suspended in a gel-like
matrix. These papillae show the hallmarks of a mechanoreceptor, containing nerves
and encapsulated nerve termini. Histological, anatomical and kinematic evidence
indicate that this sensory organ responds to both the dynamic rotation of the
jaws during mouth opening and closure, and ventral groove blubber expansion
through direct mechanical linkage with the y-shaped fibrocartilage structure.
Along with vibrissae on the chin, providing tactile prey sensation, this organ
provides the necessary input to the brain for coordinating the initiation,
modulation and end stages of engulfment, a paradigm that is consistent with
unsteady hydrodynamic models and tag data from lunge-feeding rorquals. Despite
the antiquity of unfused jaws in baleen whales since the late Oligocene (∼23-28
million years ago), this organ represents an evolutionary novelty for rorquals,
based on its absence in all other lineages of extant baleen whales. This
innovation has a fundamental role in one of the most extreme feeding methods in
aquatic vertebrates, which facilitated the evolution of the largest vertebrates
ever.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11135 
PMID: 22622577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7399):490-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11024.

Statistical geochemistry reveals disruption in secular lithospheric evolution
about 2.5 Gyr ago.

Keller CB(1), Schoene B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, Guyot Hall, Washington Road, 
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA. cbkeller@princeton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):452-3.

The Earth has cooled over the past 4.5 billion years (Gyr) as a result of surface
heat loss and declining radiogenic heat production. Igneous geochemistry has been
used to understand how changing heat flux influenced Archaean geodynamics, but
records of systematic geochemical evolution are complicated by heterogeneity of
the rock record and uncertainties regarding selection and preservation bias. Here
we apply statistical sampling techniques to a geochemical database of about
70,000 samples from the continental igneous rock record to produce a
comprehensive record of secular geochemical evolution throughout Earth history.
Consistent with secular mantle cooling, compatible and incompatible elements in
basalts record gradually decreasing mantle melt fraction through time.
Superimposed on this gradual evolution is a pervasive geochemical discontinuity
occurring about 2.5 Gyr ago, involving substantial decreases in mantle melt
fraction in basalts, and in indicators of deep crustal melting and fractionation,
such as Na/K, Eu/Eu* (europium anomaly) and La/Yb ratios in felsic rocks. Along
with an increase in preserved crustal thickness across the Archaean/Proterozoic
boundary, these data are consistent with a model in which high-degree Archaean
mantle melting produced a thick, mafic lower crust and consequent deep crustal
delamination and melting--leading to abundant tonalite-trondhjemite-granodiorite 
magmatism and a thin preserved Archaean crust. The coincidence of the observed
changes in geochemistry and crustal thickness with stepwise atmospheric oxidation
at the end of the Archaean eon provides a significant temporal link between deep 
Earth geochemical processes and the rise of atmospheric oxygen on the Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11024 
PMID: 22622575 


555. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7399):486-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11067.

All-solid-state dye-sensitized solar cells with high efficiency.

Chung I(1), Lee B, He J, Chang RP, Kanatzidis MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):450-1.

Dye-sensitized solar cells based on titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) are promising
low-cost alternatives to conventional solid-state photovoltaic devices based on
materials such as Si, CdTe and CuIn(1-x)Ga(x)Se(2) (refs 1, 2). Despite offering 
relatively high conversion efficiencies for solar energy, typical dye-sensitized 
solar cells suffer from durability problems that result from their use of organic
liquid electrolytes containing the iodide/tri-iodide redox couple, which causes
serious problems such as electrode corrosion and electrolyte leakage.
Replacements for iodine-based liquid electrolytes have been extensively studied, 
but the efficiencies of the resulting devices remain low. Here we show that the
solution-processable p-type direct bandgap semiconductor CsSnI(3) can be used for
hole conduction in lieu of a liquid electrolyte. The resulting solid-state
dye-sensitized solar cells consist of CsSnI(2.95)F(0.05) doped with SnF(2),
nanoporous TiO(2) and the dye N719, and show conversion efficiencies of up to
10.2 per cent (8.51 per cent with a mask). With a bandgap of 1.3 electronvolts,
CsSnI(3) enhances visible light absorption on the red side of the spectrum to
outperform the typical dye-sensitized solar cells in this spectral region.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11067 
PMID: 22622574 


556. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7399):482-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11120.

Tunable ion-photon entanglement in an optical cavity.

Stute A(1), Casabone B, Schindler P, Monz T, Schmidt PO, Brandstätter B, Northup 
TE, Blatt R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstraße 25,
6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

Proposed quantum networks require both a quantum interface between light and
matter and the coherent control of quantum states. A quantum interface can be
realized by entangling the state of a single photon with the state of an atomic
or solid-state quantum memory, as demonstrated in recent experiments with trapped
ions, neutral atoms, atomic ensembles and nitrogen-vacancy spins. The entangling 
interaction couples an initial quantum memory state to two possible light-matter 
states, and the atomic level structure of the memory determines the available
coupling paths. In previous work, the transition parameters of these paths
determined the phase and amplitude of the final entangled state, unless the
memory was initially prepared in a superposition state (a step that requires
coherent control). Here we report fully tunable entanglement between a single
(40)Ca(+) ion and the polarization state of a single photon within an optical
resonator. Our method, based on a bichromatic, cavity-mediated Raman transition, 
allows us to select two coupling paths and adjust their relative phase and
amplitude. The cavity setting enables intrinsically deterministic, high-fidelity 
generation of any two-qubit entangled state. This approach is applicable to a
broad range of candidate systems and thus is a promising method for distributing 
information within quantum networks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11120 
PMCID: PMC4337972
PMID: 22622573 


557. Nature. 2012 May 23;485(7399):465-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11133.

Rab5 is necessary for the biogenesis of the endolysosomal system in vivo.

Zeigerer A(1), Gilleron J, Bogorad RL, Marsico G, Nonaka H, Seifert S,
Epstein-Barash H, Kuchimanchi S, Peng CG, Ruda VM, Del Conte-Zerial P, Hengstler 
JG, Kalaidzidis Y, Koteliansky V, Zerial M.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 01307 Dresden,
Germany.

An outstanding question is how cells control the number and size of membrane
organelles. The small GTPase Rab5 has been proposed to be a master regulator of
endosome biogenesis. Here, to test this hypothesis, we developed a mathematical
model of endosome dependency on Rab5 and validated it by titrating down all three
Rab5 isoforms in adult mouse liver using state-of-the-art RNA interference
technology. Unexpectedly, the endocytic system was resilient to depletion of Rab5
and collapsed only when Rab5 decreased to a critical level. Loss of Rab5 below
this threshold caused a marked reduction in the number of early endosomes, late
endosomes and lysosomes, associated with a block of low-density lipoprotein
endocytosis. Loss of endosomes caused failure to deliver apical proteins to the
bile canaliculi, suggesting a requirement for polarized cargo sorting. Our
results demonstrate for the first time, to our knowledge, the role of Rab5 as an 
endosome organizer in vivo and reveal the resilience mechanisms of the endocytic 
system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11133 
PMID: 22622570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Nature. 2012 May 20;486(7402):276-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11079.

Atomic model of the type III secretion system needle.

Loquet A(1), Sgourakis NG, Gupta R, Giller K, Riedel D, Goosmann C, Griesinger C,
Kolbe M, Baker D, Becker S, Lange A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of NMR-based Structural Biology, Max Planck Institute for
Biophysical Chemistry, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):684.

Pathogenic bacteria using a type III secretion system (T3SS) to manipulate host
cells cause many different infections including Shigella dysentery, typhoid
fever, enterohaemorrhagic colitis and bubonic plague. An essential part of the
T3SS is a hollow needle-like protein filament through which effector proteins are
injected into eukaryotic host cells. Currently, the three-dimensional structure
of the needle is unknown because it is not amenable to X-ray crystallography and 
solution NMR, as a result of its inherent non-crystallinity and insolubility.
Cryo-electron microscopy combined with crystal or solution NMR subunit structures
has recently provided a powerful hybrid approach for studying supramolecular
assemblies, resulting in low-resolution and medium-resolution models. However,
such approaches cannot deliver atomic details, especially of the crucial
subunit-subunit interfaces, because of the limited cryo-electron microscopic
resolution obtained in these studies. Here we report an alternative approach
combining recombinant wild-type needle production, solid-state NMR, electron
microscopy and Rosetta modelling to reveal the supramolecular interfaces and
ultimately the complete atomic structure of the Salmonella typhimurium T3SS
needle. We show that the 80-residue subunits form a right-handed helical assembly
with roughly 11 subunits per two turns, similar to that of the flagellar filament
of S. typhimurium. In contrast to established models of the needle in which the
amino terminus of the protein subunit was assumed to be α-helical and positioned 
inside the needle, our model reveals an extended amino-terminal domain that is
positioned on the surface of the needle, while the highly conserved carboxy
terminus points towards the lumen.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11079 
PMCID: PMC3598588
PMID: 22699623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 2012 May 20;486(7402):251-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11078.

Covert skill learning in a cortical-basal ganglia circuit.

Charlesworth JD(1), Warren TL, Brainard MS.

Author information: 
(1)W. M. Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, Department of Physiology,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
jcharles@phy.ucsf.edu

We learn complex skills such as speech and dance through a gradual process of
trial and error. Cortical-basal ganglia circuits have an important yet unresolved
function in this trial-and-error skill learning; influential 'actor-critic'
models propose that basal ganglia circuits generate a variety of behaviours
during training and learn to implement the successful behaviours in their
repertoire. Here we show that the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), a
cortical-basal ganglia circuit, contributes to skill learning even when it does
not contribute to such 'exploratory' variation in behavioural performance during 
training. Blocking the output of the AFP while training Bengalese finches to
modify their songs prevented the gradual improvement that normally occurs in this
complex skill during training. However, unblocking the output of the AFP after
training caused an immediate transition from naive performance to excellent
performance, indicating that the AFP covertly gained the ability to implement
learned skill performance without contributing to skill practice. In contrast,
inactivating the output nucleus of the AFP during training completely prevented
learning, indicating that learning requires activity within the AFP during
training. Our results suggest a revised model of skill learning: basal ganglia
circuits can monitor the consequences of behavioural variation produced by other 
brain regions and then direct those brain regions to implement more successful
behaviours. The ability of the AFP to identify successful performances generated 
by other brain regions indicates that basal ganglia circuits receive a detailed
efference copy of premotor activity in those regions. The capacity of the AFP to 
implement successful performances that were initially produced by other brain
regions indicates precise functional connections between basal ganglia circuits
and the motor regions that directly control performance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11078 
PMCID: PMC3377745
PMID: 22699618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2012 May 20;486(7401):135-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11077.

Crystal structure of a voltage-gated sodium channel in two potentially
inactivated states.

Payandeh J(1), Gamal El-Din TM, Scheuer T, Zheng N, Catterall WA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

In excitable cells, voltage-gated sodium (Na(V)) channels activate to initiate
action potentials and then undergo fast and slow inactivation processes that
terminate their ionic conductance. Inactivation is a hallmark of Na(V) channel
function and is critical for control of membrane excitability, but the structural
basis for this process has remained elusive. Here we report crystallographic
snapshots of the wild-type Na(V)Ab channel from Arcobacter butzleri captured in
two potentially inactivated states at 3.2 Å resolution. Compared to previous
structures of Na(V)Ab channels with cysteine mutations in the pore-lining S6
helices (ref. 4), the S6 helices and the intracellular activation gate have
undergone significant rearrangements: one pair of S6 helices has collapsed
towards the central pore axis and the other S6 pair has moved outward to produce 
a striking dimer-of-dimers configuration. An increase in global structural
asymmetry is observed throughout our wild-type Na(V)Ab models, reshaping the ion 
selectivity filter at the extracellular end of the pore, the central cavity and
its residues that are analogous to the mammalian drug receptor site, and the
lateral pore fenestrations. The voltage-sensing domains have also shifted around 
the perimeter of the pore module in wild-type Na(V)Ab, compared to the mutant
channel, and local structural changes identify a conserved interaction network
that connects distant molecular determinants involved in Na(V) channel gating and
inactivation. These potential inactivated-state structures provide new insights
into Na(V) channel gating and novel avenues to drug development and therapy for a
range of debilitating Na(V) channelopathies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11077 
PMCID: PMC3552482
PMID: 22678296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2012 May 20;486(7401):130-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11054.

Crystal structure of an orthologue of the NaChBac voltage-gated sodium channel.

Zhang X(1), Ren W, DeCaen P, Yan C, Tao X, Tang L, Wang J, Hasegawa K, Kumasaka
T, He J, Wang J, Clapham DE, Yan N.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Center for
Structural Biology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Voltage-gated sodium (Na(v)) channels are essential for the rapid depolarization 
of nerve and muscle, and are important drug targets. Determination of the
structures of Na(v) channels will shed light on ion channel mechanisms and
facilitate potential clinical applications. A family of bacterial Na(v) channels,
exemplified by the Na(+)-selective channel of bacteria (NaChBac), provides a
useful model system for structure-function analysis. Here we report the crystal
structure of Na(v)Rh, a NaChBac orthologue from the marine alphaproteobacterium
HIMB114 (Rickettsiales sp. HIMB114; denoted Rh), at 3.05 Å resolution. The
channel comprises an asymmetric tetramer. The carbonyl oxygen atoms of Thr 178
and Leu 179 constitute an inner site within the selectivity filter where a
hydrated Ca(2+) resides in the crystal structure. The outer mouth of the Na(+)
selectivity filter, defined by Ser 181 and Glu 183, is closed, as is the
activation gate at the intracellular side of the pore. The voltage sensors adopt 
a depolarized conformation in which all the gating charges are exposed to the
extracellular environment. We propose that Na(v)Rh is in an 'inactivated'
conformation. Comparison of Na(v)Rh with Na(v)Ab reveals considerable
conformational rearrangements that may underlie the electromechanical coupling
mechanism of voltage-gated channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11054 
PMCID: PMC3979295
PMID: 22678295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):359-62. doi: 10.1038/nature11056.

Extended leaf phenology and the autumn niche in deciduous forest invasions.

Fridley JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Syracuse University, 107 College Place, Syracuse, New
York 13244, USA. fridley@syr.edu

The phenology of growth in temperate deciduous forests, including the timing of
leaf emergence and senescence, has strong control over ecosystem properties such 
as productivity and nutrient cycling, and has an important role in the carbon
economy of understory plants. Extended leaf phenology, whereby understory species
assimilate carbon in early spring before canopy closure or in late autumn after
canopy fall, has been identified as a key feature of many forest species
invasions, but it remains unclear whether there are systematic differences in the
growth phenology of native and invasive forest species or whether invaders are
more responsive to warming trends that have lengthened the duration of spring or 
autumn growth. Here, in a 3-year monitoring study of 43 native and 30 non-native 
shrub and liana species common to deciduous forests in the eastern United States,
I show that extended autumn leaf phenology is a common attribute of eastern US
forest invasions, where non-native species are extending the autumn growing
season by an average of 4 weeks compared with natives. In contrast, there was no 
consistent evidence that non-natives as a group show earlier spring growth
phenology, and non-natives were not better able to track interannual variation in
spring temperatures. Seasonal leaf production and photosynthetic data suggest
that most non-native species capture a significant proportion of their annual
carbon assimilate after canopy leaf fall, a behaviour that was virtually absent
in natives and consistent across five phylogenetic groups. Pronounced differences
in how native and non-native understory species use pre- and post-canopy
environments suggest eastern US invaders are driving a seasonal redistribution of
forest productivity that may rival climate change in its impact on forest
processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11056 
PMID: 22535249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):368-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10987.

Restoration of grasp following paralysis through brain-controlled stimulation of 
muscles.

Ethier C(1), Oby ER, Bauman MJ, Miller LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, 303 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Jul;8(7):353.

Patients with spinal cord injury lack the connections between brain and spinal
cord circuits that are essential for voluntary movement. Clinical systems that
achieve muscle contraction through functional electrical stimulation (FES) have
proven to be effective in allowing patients with tetraplegia to regain control of
hand movements and to achieve a greater measure of independence in daily
activities. In existing clinical systems, the patient uses residual proximal limb
movements to trigger pre-programmed stimulation that causes the paralysed muscles
to contract, allowing use of one or two basic grasps. Instead, we have developed 
an FES system in primates that is controlled by recordings made from
microelectrodes permanently implanted in the brain. We simulated some of the
effects of the paralysis caused by C5 or C6 spinal cord injury by injecting
rhesus monkeys with a local anaesthetic to block the median and ulnar nerves at
the elbow. Then, using recordings from approximately 100 neurons in the motor
cortex, we predicted the intended activity of several of the paralysed muscles,
and used these predictions to control the intensity of stimulation of the same
muscles. This process essentially bypassed the spinal cord, restoring to the
monkeys voluntary control of their paralysed muscles. This achievement is a major
advance towards similar restoration of hand function in human patients through
brain-controlled FES. We anticipate that in human patients, this neuroprosthesis 
would allow much more flexible and dexterous use of the hand than is possible
with existing FES systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10987 
PMCID: PMC3358575
PMID: 22522928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):391-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10998.

A PPARγ-FGF1 axis is required for adaptive adipose remodelling and metabolic
homeostasis.

Jonker JW(1), Suh JM, Atkins AR, Ahmadian M, Li P, Whyte J, He M, Juguilon H, Yin
YQ, Phillips CT, Yu RT, Olefsky JM, Henry RR, Downes M, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Although feast and famine cycles illustrate that remodelling of adipose tissue in
response to fluctuations in nutrient availability is essential for maintaining
metabolic homeostasis, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here
we identify fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) as a critical transducer in this
process in mice, and link its regulation to the nuclear receptor PPARγ
(peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ), which is the adipocyte master
regulator and the target of the thiazolidinedione class of insulin sensitizing
drugs. FGF1 is the prototype of the 22-member FGF family of proteins and has been
implicated in a range of physiological processes, including development, wound
healing and cardiovascular changes. Surprisingly, FGF1 knockout mice display no
significant phenotype under standard laboratory conditions. We show that FGF1 is 
highly induced in adipose tissue in response to a high-fat diet and that mice
lacking FGF1 develop an aggressive diabetic phenotype coupled to aberrant adipose
expansion when challenged with a high-fat diet. Further analysis of adipose
depots in FGF1-deficient mice revealed multiple histopathologies in the
vasculature network, an accentuated inflammatory response, aberrant adipocyte
size distribution and ectopic expression of pancreatic lipases. On withdrawal of 
the high-fat diet, this inflamed adipose tissue fails to properly resolve,
resulting in extensive fat necrosis. In terms of mechanisms, we show that adipose
induction of FGF1 in the fed state is regulated by PPARγ acting through an
evolutionarily conserved promoter proximal PPAR response element within the FGF1 
gene. The discovery of a phenotype for the FGF1 knockout mouse establishes the
PPARγ–FGF1 axis as critical for maintaining metabolic homeostasis and insulin
sensitization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10998 
PMCID: PMC3358516
PMID: 22522926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2012 May 16;486(7403):400-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11017.

The landscape of cancer genes and mutational processes in breast cancer.

Stephens PJ(1), Tarpey PS, Davies H, Van Loo P, Greenman C, Wedge DC, Nik-Zainal 
S, Martin S, Varela I, Bignell GR, Yates LR, Papaemmanuil E, Beare D, Butler A,
Cheverton A, Gamble J, Hinton J, Jia M, Jayakumar A, Jones D, Latimer C, Lau KW, 
McLaren S, McBride DJ, Menzies A, Mudie L, Raine K, Rad R, Chapman MS, Teague J, 
Easton D, Langerød A; Oslo Breast Cancer Consortium (OSBREAC), Lee MT, Shen CY,
Tee BT, Huimin BW, Broeks A, Vargas AC, Turashvili G, Martens J, Fatima A, Miron 
P, Chin SF, Thomas G, Boyault S, Mariani O, Lakhani SR, van de Vijver M, van 't
Veer L, Foekens J, Desmedt C, Sotiriou C, Tutt A, Caldas C, Reis-Filho JS,
Aparicio SA, Salomon AV, Børresen-Dale AL, Richardson AL, Campbell PJ, Futreal
PA, Stratton MR.

Collaborators: Karesen R, Schlichting E, Naume B, Sauer T, Ottestad L.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome 
Campus, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2012;14(5):323.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):328-9.

All cancers carry somatic mutations in their genomes. A subset, known as driver
mutations, confer clonal selective advantage on cancer cells and are causally
implicated in oncogenesis, and the remainder are passenger mutations. The driver 
mutations and mutational processes operative in breast cancer have not yet been
comprehensively explored. Here we examine the genomes of 100 tumours for somatic 
copy number changes and mutations in the coding exons of protein-coding genes.
The number of somatic mutations varied markedly between individual tumours. We
found strong correlations between mutation number, age at which cancer was
diagnosed and cancer histological grade, and observed multiple mutational
signatures, including one present in about ten per cent of tumours characterized 
by numerous mutations of cytosine at TpC dinucleotides. Driver mutations were
identified in several new cancer genes including AKT2, ARID1B, CASP8, CDKN1B,
MAP3K1, MAP3K13, NCOR1, SMARCD1 and TBX3. Among the 100 tumours, we found driver 
mutations in at least 40 cancer genes and 73 different combinations of mutated
cancer genes. The results highlight the substantial genetic diversity underlying 
this common disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11017 
PMCID: PMC3428862
PMID: 22722201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2012 May 16;486(7402):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11162.

NPR3 and NPR4 are receptors for the immune signal salicylic acid in plants.

Fu ZQ(1), Yan S, Saleh A, Wang W, Ruble J, Oka N, Mohan R, Spoel SH, Tada Y,
Zheng N, Dong X.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute-Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, Department 
of Biology, PO Box 90338, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

Comment in
    Sci Signal. 2013 Jun 11;6(279):jc3.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 14;486(7402):198-9.

Salicylic acid (SA) is a plant immune signal produced after pathogen challenge to
induce systemic acquired resistance. It is the only major plant hormone for which
the receptor has not been firmly identified. Systemic acquired resistance in
Arabidopsis requires the transcription cofactor nonexpresser of PR genes 1
(NPR1), the degradation of which acts as a molecular switch. Here we show that
the NPR1 paralogues NPR3 and NPR4 are SA receptors that bind SA with different
affinities. NPR3 and NPR4 function as adaptors of the Cullin 3 ubiquitin E3
ligase to mediate NPR1 degradation in an SA-regulated manner. Accordingly, the
Arabidopsis npr3 npr4 double mutant accumulates higher levels of NPR1, and is
insensitive to induction of systemic acquired resistance. Moreover, this mutant
is defective in pathogen effector-triggered programmed cell death and immunity.
Our study reveals the mechanism of SA perception in determining cell death and
survival in response to pathogen challenge.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11162 
PMCID: PMC3376392
PMID: 22699612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7399):512-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11087.

Apolipoprotein E controls cerebrovascular integrity via cyclophilin A.

Bell RD(1), Winkler EA, Singh I, Sagare AP, Deane R, Wu Z, Holtzman DM, Betsholtz
C, Armulik A, Sallstrom J, Berk BC, Zlokovic BV.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative and Vascular Brain Disorders, University of
Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New York 14642, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):451-2.

Human apolipoprotein E has three isoforms: APOE2, APOE3 and APOE4. APOE4 is a
major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease and is associated with Down's
syndrome dementia and poor neurological outcome after traumatic brain injury and 
haemorrhage. Neurovascular dysfunction is present in normal APOE4 carriers and
individuals with APOE4-associated disorders. In mice, lack of Apoe leads to
blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown, whereas APOE4 increases BBB susceptibility
to injury. How APOE genotype affects brain microcirculation remains elusive.
Using different APOE transgenic mice, including mice with ablation and/or
inhibition of cyclophilin A (CypA), here we show that expression of APOE4 and
lack of murine Apoe, but not APOE2 and APOE3, leads to BBB breakdown by
activating a proinflammatory CypA-nuclear factor-κB-matrix-metalloproteinase-9
pathway in pericytes. This, in turn, leads to neuronal uptake of multiple
blood-derived neurotoxic proteins, and microvascular and cerebral blood flow
reductions. We show that the vascular defects in Apoe-deficient and
APOE4-expressing mice precede neuronal dysfunction and can initiate
neurodegenerative changes. Astrocyte-secreted APOE3, but not APOE4, suppressed
the CypA-nuclear factor-κB-matrix-metalloproteinase-9 pathway in pericytes
through a lipoprotein receptor. Our data suggest that CypA is a key target for
treating APOE4-mediated neurovascular injury and the resulting neuronal
dysfunction and degeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11087 
PMCID: PMC4047116
PMID: 22622580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7399):478-81. doi: 10.1038/nature11063.

Superflares on solar-type stars.

Maehara H(1), Shibayama T, Notsu S, Notsu Y, Nagao T, Kusaba S, Honda S, Nogami
D, Shibata K.

Author information: 
(1)Kwasan and Hida Observatories, Kyoto University, 17 Ohmine-cho Kita Kazan,
Yamashina-ku, Kyoto City, Kyoto 607-8471, Japan. maehara@kwasan.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):456-7.

Solar flares are caused by the sudden release of magnetic energy stored near
sunspots. They release 10(29) to 10(32) ergs of energy on a timescale of hours.
Similar flares have been observed on many stars, with larger 'superflares' seen
on a variety of stars, some of which are rapidly rotating and some of which are
of ordinary solar type. The small number of superflares observed on solar-type
stars has hitherto precluded a detailed study of them. Here we report
observations of 365 superflares, including some from slowly rotating solar-type
stars, from about 83,000 stars observed over 120 days. Quasi-periodic brightness 
modulations observed in the solar-type stars suggest that they have much larger
starspots than does the Sun. The maximum energy of the flare is not correlated
with the stellar rotation period, but the data suggest that superflares occur
more frequently on rapidly rotating stars. It has been proposed that hot Jupiters
may be important in the generation of superflares on solar-type stars, but none
have been discovered around the stars that we have studied, indicating that hot
Jupiters associated with superflares are rare.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11063 
PMID: 22622572 


569. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7399):459-64. doi: 10.1038/nature11088.

Peroxiredoxins are conserved markers of circadian rhythms.

Edgar RS(1), Green EW, Zhao Y, van Ooijen G, Olmedo M, Qin X, Xu Y, Pan M,
Valekunja UK, Feeney KA, Maywood ES, Hastings MH, Baliga NS, Merrow M, Millar AJ,
Johnson CH, Kyriacou CP, O'Neill JS, Reddy AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):590.

Cellular life emerged ∼3.7 billion years ago. With scant exception, terrestrial
organisms have evolved under predictable daily cycles owing to the Earth's
rotation. The advantage conferred on organisms that anticipate such environmental
cycles has driven the evolution of endogenous circadian rhythms that tune
internal physiology to external conditions. The molecular phylogeny of mechanisms
driving these rhythms has been difficult to dissect because identified clock
genes and proteins are not conserved across the domains of life: Bacteria,
Archaea and Eukaryota. Here we show that oxidation-reduction cycles of
peroxiredoxin proteins constitute a universal marker for circadian rhythms in all
domains of life, by characterizing their oscillations in a variety of model
organisms. Furthermore, we explore the interconnectivity between these metabolic 
cycles and transcription-translation feedback loops of the clockwork in each
system. Our results suggest an intimate co-evolution of cellular timekeeping with
redox homeostatic mechanisms after the Great Oxidation Event ∼2.5 billion years
ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11088 
PMCID: PMC3398137
PMID: 22622569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):400-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11111.

Structure of the δ-opioid receptor bound to naltrindole.

Granier S(1), Manglik A, Kruse AC, Kobilka TS, Thian FS, Weis WI, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA. granier@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):314-7.

The opioid receptor family comprises three members, the µ-, δ- and κ-opioid
receptors, which respond to classical opioid alkaloids such as morphine and
heroin as well as to endogenous peptide ligands like endorphins. They belong to
the G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily, and are excellent therapeutic 
targets for pain control. The δ-opioid receptor (δ-OR) has a role in analgesia,
as well as in other neurological functions that remain poorly understood. The
structures of the µ-OR and κ-OR have recently been solved. Here we report the
crystal structure of the mouse δ-OR, bound to the subtype-selective antagonist
naltrindole. Together with the structures of the µ-OR and κ-OR, the δ-OR
structure provides insights into conserved elements of opioid ligand recognition 
while also revealing structural features associated with ligand-subtype
selectivity. The binding pocket of opioid receptors can be divided into two
distinct regions. Whereas the lower part of this pocket is highly conserved among
opioid receptors, the upper part contains divergent residues that confer subtype 
selectivity. This provides a structural explanation and validation for the
'message-address' model of opioid receptor pharmacology, in which distinct
'message' (efficacy) and 'address' (selectivity) determinants are contained
within a single ligand. Comparison of the address region of the δ-OR with other
GPCRs reveals that this structural organization may be a more general phenomenon,
extending to other GPCR families as well.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11111 
PMCID: PMC3523198
PMID: 22596164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):395-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11085.

Structure of the nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor in complex with a peptide
mimetic.

Thompson AA(1), Liu W, Chun E, Katritch V, Wu H, Vardy E, Huang XP, Trapella C,
Guerrini R, Calo G, Roth BL, Cherezov V, Stevens RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):314-7.

Members of the opioid receptor family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are 
found throughout the peripheral and central nervous system, where they have key
roles in nociception and analgesia. Unlike the 'classical' opioid receptors, δ, κ
and μ (δ-OR, κ-OR and μ-OR), which were delineated by pharmacological criteria in
the 1970s and 1980s, the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide receptor (NOP,
also known as ORL-1) was discovered relatively recently by molecular cloning and 
characterization of an orphan GPCR. Although it shares high sequence similarity
with classical opioid GPCR subtypes (∼60%), NOP has a markedly distinct
pharmacology, featuring activation by the endogenous peptide N/OFQ, and unique
selectivity for exogenous ligands. Here we report the crystal structure of human 
NOP, solved in complex with the peptide mimetic antagonist compound-24 (C-24)
(ref. 4), revealing atomic details of ligand-receptor recognition and
selectivity. Compound-24 mimics the first four amino-terminal residues of the
NOP-selective peptide antagonist UFP-101, a close derivative of N/OFQ, and
provides important clues to the binding of these peptides. The X-ray structure
also shows substantial conformational differences in the pocket regions between
NOP and the classical opioid receptors κ (ref. 5) and μ (ref. 6), and these are
probably due to a small number of residues that vary between these receptors. The
NOP-compound-24 structure explains the divergent selectivity profile of NOP and
provides a new structural template for the design of NOP ligands.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11085 
PMCID: PMC3356928
PMID: 22596163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):372-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11076.

Reach and grasp by people with tetraplegia using a neurally controlled robotic
arm.

Hochberg LR(1), Bacher D, Jarosiewicz B, Masse NY, Simeral JD, Vogel J, Haddadin 
S, Liu J, Cash SS, van der Smagt P, Donoghue JP.

Author information: 
(1)Rehabilitation Research & Development Service, Department of Veterans Affairs,
Providence, Rhode Island 02908, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):317-8.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Jul;8(7):353.

Paralysis following spinal cord injury, brainstem stroke, amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis and other disorders can disconnect the brain from the body, eliminating
the ability to perform volitional movements. A neural interface system could
restore mobility and independence for people with paralysis by translating
neuronal activity directly into control signals for assistive devices. We have
previously shown that people with long-standing tetraplegia can use a neural
interface system to move and click a computer cursor and to control physical
devices. Able-bodied monkeys have used a neural interface system to control a
robotic arm, but it is unknown whether people with profound upper extremity
paralysis or limb loss could use cortical neuronal ensemble signals to direct
useful arm actions. Here we demonstrate the ability of two people with
long-standing tetraplegia to use neural interface system-based control of a
robotic arm to perform three-dimensional reach and grasp movements. Participants 
controlled the arm and hand over a broad space without explicit training, using
signals decoded from a small, local population of motor cortex (MI) neurons
recorded from a 96-channel microelectrode array. One of the study participants,
implanted with the sensor 5 years earlier, also used a robotic arm to drink
coffee from a bottle. Although robotic reach and grasp actions were not as fast
or accurate as those of an able-bodied person, our results demonstrate the
feasibility for people with tetraplegia, years after injury to the central
nervous system, to recreate useful multidimensional control of complex devices
directly from a small sample of neural signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11076 
PMCID: PMC3640850
PMID: 22596161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):363-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11091.

KCTD13 is a major driver of mirrored neuroanatomical phenotypes of the 16p11.2
copy number variant.

Golzio C(1), Willer J, Talkowski ME, Oh EC, Taniguchi Y, Jacquemont S, Reymond A,
Sun M, Sawa A, Gusella JF, Kamiya A, Beckmann JS, Katsanis N.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Disease Modeling and Department of Cell biology, Duke
University, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):318-9.

Copy number variants (CNVs) are major contributors to genetic disorders. We have 
dissected a region of the 16p11.2 chromosome--which encompasses 29 genes--that
confers susceptibility to neurocognitive defects when deleted or duplicated.
Overexpression of each human transcript in zebrafish embryos identified KCTD13 as
the sole message capable of inducing the microcephaly phenotype associated with
the 16p11.2 duplication, whereas suppression of the same locus yielded the
macrocephalic phenotype associated with the 16p11.2 deletion, capturing the
mirror phenotypes of humans. Analyses of zebrafish and mouse embryos suggest that
microcephaly is caused by decreased proliferation of neuronal progenitors with
concomitant increase in apoptosis in the developing brain, whereas macrocephaly
arises by increased proliferation and no changes in apoptosis. A role for KCTD13 
dosage changes is consistent with autism in both a recently reported family with 
a reduced 16p11.2 deletion and a subject reported here with a complex 16p11.2
rearrangement involving de novo structural alteration of KCTD13. Our data suggest
that KCTD13 is a major driver for the neurodevelopmental phenotypes associated
with the 16p11.2 CNV, reinforce the idea that one or a small number of
transcripts within a CNV can underpin clinical phenotypes, and offer an efficient
route to identifying dosage-sensitive loci.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11091 
PMCID: PMC3366115
PMID: 22596160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):350-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11097.

Recent Northern Hemisphere tropical expansion primarily driven by black carbon
and tropospheric ozone.

Allen RJ(1), Sherwood SC, Norris JR, Zender CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA. 
rjallen@ucr.edu

Observational analyses have shown the width of the tropical belt increasing in
recent decades as the world has warmed. This expansion is important because it is
associated with shifts in large-scale atmospheric circulation and major climate
zones. Although recent studies have attributed tropical expansion in the Southern
Hemisphere to ozone depletion, the drivers of Northern Hemisphere expansion are
not well known and the expansion has not so far been reproduced by climate
models. Here we use a climate model with detailed aerosol physics to show that
increases in heterogeneous warming agents--including black carbon aerosols and
tropospheric ozone--are noticeably better than greenhouse gases at driving
expansion, and can account for the observed summertime maximum in tropical
expansion. Mechanistically, atmospheric heating from black carbon and
tropospheric ozone has occurred at the mid-latitudes, generating a poleward shift
of the tropospheric jet, thereby relocating the main division between tropical
and temperate air masses. Although we still underestimate tropical expansion, the
true aerosol forcing is poorly known and could also be underestimated. Thus,
although the insensitivity of models needs further investigation, black carbon
and tropospheric ozone, both of which are strongly influenced by human
activities, are the most likely causes of observed Northern Hemisphere tropical
expansion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11097 
PMID: 22596159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):347-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11122.

Light-induced liquid crystallinity.

Kosa T(1), Sukhomlinova L, Su L, Taheri B, White TJ, Bunning TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Alpha Micron Inc., Kent, Ohio 44240, USA. tamas@alphamicron.com

Liquid crystals are traditionally classified as thermotropic, lyotropic or
polymeric, based on the stimulus that governs the organization and order of the
molecular system. The most widely known and applied class of liquid crystals are 
a subset of thermotropic liquid crystals known as calamitic, in which adding heat
can result in phase transitions from or into the nematic, cholesteric and smectic
mesophases. Photoresponsive liquid-crystal materials and mixtures can undergo
isothermal phase transitions if light affects the order parameter of the system
within a mesophase sufficiently. In nearly all previous examinations, light
exposure of photoresponsive liquid-crystal materials and mixtures resulted in
order-decreasing photo-induced isothermal phase transitions. Under specialized
conditions, an increase in order with light exposure has been reported, despite
the tendency of the photoresponsive liquid-crystal system to reduce order in the 
exposed state. A direct, photo-induced transition from the isotropic to the
nematic phase has been observed in a mixture of spiropyran molecules and a
nematic liquid crystal. Here we report a class of naphthopyran-based materials
that exhibit photo-induced conformational changes in molecular structure capable 
of yielding order-increasing phase transitions. Appropriate functionalization of 
the naphthopyran molecules leads to an exceedingly large order parameter in the
open form, which results in a clear to strongly absorbing dichroic state. The
increase in order with light exposure has profound implications in optics,
photonics, lasing and displays and will merit further consideration for
applications in solar energy harvesting. The large, photo-induced dichroism
exhibited by the material system has been long sought in ophthalmic applications 
such as photochromic and polarized variable transmission sunglasses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11122 
PMID: 22596158 


576. Nature. 2012 May 16;485(7398):343-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11025.

Resolving the time when an electron exits a tunnelling barrier.

Shafir D(1), Soifer H, Bruner BD, Dagan M, Mairesse Y, Patchkovskii S, Ivanov MY,
Smirnova O, Dudovich N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot 76100, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):313-4.

The tunnelling of a particle through a barrier is one of the most fundamental and
ubiquitous quantum processes. When induced by an intense laser field, electron
tunnelling from atoms and molecules initiates a broad range of phenomena such as 
the generation of attosecond pulses, laser-induced electron diffraction and
holography. These processes evolve on the attosecond timescale
(1 attosecond ≡ 1 as = 10(-18) seconds) and are well suited to the investigation 
of a general issue much debated since the early days of quantum mechanics--the
link between the tunnelling of an electron through a barrier and its dynamics
outside the barrier. Previous experiments have measured tunnelling rates with
attosecond time resolution and tunnelling delay times. Here we study
laser-induced tunnelling by using a weak probe field to steer the tunnelled
electron in the lateral direction and then monitor the effect on the attosecond
light bursts emitted when the liberated electron re-encounters the parent ion. We
show that this approach allows us to measure the time at which the electron exits
from the tunnelling barrier. We demonstrate the high sensitivity of the
measurement by detecting subtle delays in ionization times from two orbitals of a
carbon dioxide molecule. Measurement of the tunnelling process is essential for
all attosecond experiments where strong-field ionization initiates ultrafast
dynamics. Our approach provides a general tool for time-resolving multi-electron 
rearrangements in atoms and molecules--one of the key challenges in ultrafast
science.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11025 
PMID: 22596157 


577. Nature. 2012 May 13;486(7401):122-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11033.

α2δ expression sets presynaptic calcium channel abundance and release
probability.

Hoppa MB(1), Lana B, Margas W, Dolphin AC, Ryan TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 
10023, USA.

Synaptic neurotransmitter release is driven by Ca(2+) influx through active zone 
voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs). Control of active zone VGCC abundance and
function remains poorly understood. Here we show that a trafficking step probably
sets synaptic VGCC levels in rats, because overexpression of the pore-forming
α1(A) VGCC subunit fails to change synaptic VGCC abundance or function. α2δs are 
a family of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored VGCC-associated subunits 
that, in addition to being the target of the potent neuropathic analgesics
gabapentin and pregabalin (α2δ-1 and α2δ-2), were also identified in a forward
genetic screen for pain genes (α2δ-3). We show that these proteins confer
powerful modulation of presynaptic function through two distinct molecular
mechanisms. First, α2δ subunits set synaptic VGCC abundance, as predicted from
their chaperone-like function when expressed in non-neuronal cells. Second, α2δs 
configure synaptic VGCCs to drive exocytosis through an extracellular metal
ion-dependent adhesion site (MIDAS), a conserved set of amino acids within the
predicted von Willebrand A domain of α2δ. Expression of α2δ with an intact MIDAS 
motif leads to an 80% increase in release probability, while simultaneously
protecting exocytosis from blockade by an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator. α2δs
harbouring MIDAS site mutations still drive synaptic accumulation of VGCCs;
however, they no longer change release probability or sensitivity to
intracellular Ca(2+) chelators. Our data reveal dual functionality of these
clinically important VGCC subunits, allowing synapses to make more efficient use 
of Ca(2+) entry to drive neurotransmitter release.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11033 
PMCID: PMC3376018
PMID: 22678293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2012 May 13;486(7401):85-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11152.

Fluoride ion encapsulation by Mg2+ ions and phosphates in a fluoride riboswitch.

Ren A(1), Rajashankar KR, Patel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Center, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

Significant advances in our understanding of RNA architecture, folding and
recognition have emerged from structure-function studies on riboswitches,
non-coding RNAs whose sensing domains bind small ligands and whose adjacent
expression platforms contain RNA elements involved in the control of gene
regulation. We now report on the ligand-bound structure of the Thermotoga
petrophila fluoride riboswitch, which adopts a higher-order RNA architecture
stabilized by pseudoknot and long-range reversed Watson-Crick and Hoogsteen A•U
pair formation. The bound fluoride ion is encapsulated within the junctional
architecture, anchored in place through direct coordination to three Mg(2+) ions,
which in turn are octahedrally coordinated to water molecules and five inwardly
pointing backbone phosphates. Our structure of the fluoride riboswitch in the
bound state shows how RNA can form a binding pocket selective for fluoride, while
discriminating against larger halide ions. The T. petrophila fluoride riboswitch 
probably functions in gene regulation through a transcription termination
mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11152 
PMCID: PMC3744881
PMID: 22678284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nature. 2012 May 13;485(7400):646-50. doi: 10.1038/nature11052.

Recurrent network activity drives striatal synaptogenesis.

Kozorovitskiy Y(1), Saunders A, Johnson CA, Lowell BB, Sabatini BL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical
School, 220 Longwood Ave, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 13;489(7415):326.

Neural activity during development critically shapes postnatal wiring of the
mammalian brain. This is best illustrated by the sensory systems, in which the
patterned feed-forward excitation provided by sensory organs and experience
drives the formation of mature topographic circuits capable of extracting
specific features of sensory stimuli. In contrast, little is known about the role
of early activity in the development of the basal ganglia, a phylogenetically
ancient group of nuclei fundamentally important for complex motor action and
reward-based learning. These nuclei lack direct sensory input and are only
loosely topographically organized, forming interlocking feed-forward and
feed-back inhibitory circuits without laminar structure. Here we use transgenic
mice and viral gene transfer methods to modulate neurotransmitter release and
neuronal activity in vivo in the developing striatum. We find that the balance of
activity between the two inhibitory and antagonist pathways in the striatum
regulates excitatory innervation of the basal ganglia during development. These
effects indicate that the propagation of activity through a multi-stage network
regulates the wiring of the basal ganglia, revealing an important role of
positive feedback in driving network maturation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11052 
PMCID: PMC3367801
PMID: 22660328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2012 May 13;485(7400):642-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11089.

Genetic recombination is directed away from functional genomic elements in mice.

Brick K(1), Smagulova F, Khil P, Camerini-Otero RD, Petukhova GV.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Jul;13(7):449.

Genetic recombination occurs during meiosis, the key developmental programme of
gametogenesis. Recombination in mammals has been recently linked to the activity 
of a histone H3 methyltransferase, PR domain containing 9 (PRDM9), the product of
the only known speciation-associated gene in mammals. PRDM9 is thought to
determine the preferred recombination sites--recombination hotspots--through
sequence-specific binding of its highly polymorphic multi-Zn-finger domain.
Nevertheless, Prdm9 knockout mice are proficient at initiating recombination.
Here we map and analyse the genome-wide distribution of recombination initiation 
sites in Prdm9 knockout mice and in two mouse strains with different Prdm9
alleles and their F(1) hybrid. We show that PRDM9 determines the positions of
practically all hotspots in the mouse genome, with the exception of the
pseudo-autosomal region (PAR)--the only area of the genome that undergoes
recombination in 100% of cells. Surprisingly, hotspots are still observed in
Prdm9 knockout mice, and as in wild type, these hotspots are found at H3 lysine 4
(H3K4) trimethylation marks. However, in the absence of PRDM9, most recombination
is initiated at promoters and at other sites of PRDM9-independent H3K4
trimethylation. Such sites are rarely targeted in wild-type mice, indicating an
unexpected role of the PRDM9 protein in sequestering the recombination machinery 
away from gene-promoter regions and other functional genomic elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11089 
PMCID: PMC3367396
PMID: 22660327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nature. 2012 May 13;485(7400):599-604. doi: 10.1038/nature11139.

Heart repair by reprogramming non-myocytes with cardiac transcription factors.

Song K(1), Nam YJ, Luo X, Qi X, Tan W, Huang GN, Acharya A, Smith CL, Tallquist
MD, Neilson EG, Hill JA, Bassel-Duby R, Olson EN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas, Texas 75390-9148, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2012 Aug 1;5(4):481-2.
    Circ Res. 2012 Sep 14;111(7):831-2.
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):585-6.

The adult mammalian heart possesses little regenerative potential following
injury. Fibrosis due to activation of cardiac fibroblasts impedes cardiac
regeneration and contributes to loss of contractile function, pathological
remodelling and susceptibility to arrhythmias. Cardiac fibroblasts account for a 
majority of cells in the heart and represent a potential cellular source for
restoration of cardiac function following injury through phenotypic reprogramming
to a myocardial cell fate. Here we show that four transcription factors, GATA4,
HAND2, MEF2C and TBX5, can cooperatively reprogram adult mouse tail-tip and
cardiac fibroblasts into beating cardiac-like myocytes in vitro. Forced
expression of these factors in dividing non-cardiomyocytes in mice reprograms
these cells into functional cardiac-like myocytes, improves cardiac function and 
reduces adverse ventricular remodelling following myocardial infarction. Our
results suggest a strategy for cardiac repair through reprogramming fibroblasts
resident in the heart with cardiogenic transcription factors or other molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11139 
PMCID: PMC3367390
PMID: 22660318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 2012 May 13;485(7399):530-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11009.

Evolution of the chalcone-isomerase fold from fatty-acid binding to
stereospecific catalysis.

Ngaki MN(1), Louie GV, Philippe RN, Manning G, Pojer F, Bowman ME, Li L, Larsen
E, Wurtele ES, Noel JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Development, and Cell Biology, Iowa State University, 
Ames, Iowa 50011, USA.

Specialized metabolic enzymes biosynthesize chemicals of ecological importance,
often sharing a pedigree with primary metabolic enzymes. However, the lineage of 
the enzyme chalcone isomerase (CHI) remained unknown. In vascular plants,
CHI-catalysed conversion of chalcones to chiral (S)-flavanones is a committed
step in the production of plant flavonoids, compounds that contribute to
attraction, defence and development. CHI operates near the diffusion limit with
stereospecific control. Although associated primarily with plants, the CHI fold
occurs in several other eukaryotic lineages and in some bacteria. Here we report 
crystal structures, ligand-binding properties and in vivo functional
characterization of a non-catalytic CHI-fold family from plants. Arabidopsis
thaliana contains five actively transcribed genes encoding CHI-fold proteins,
three of which additionally encode amino-terminal chloroplast-transit sequences. 
These three CHI-fold proteins localize to plastids, the site of de novo
fatty-acid biosynthesis in plant cells. Furthermore, their expression profiles
correlate with those of core fatty-acid biosynthetic enzymes, with maximal
expression occurring in seeds and coinciding with increased fatty-acid storage in
the developing embryo. In vitro, these proteins are fatty-acid-binding proteins
(FAPs). FAP knockout A. thaliana plants show elevated α-linolenic acid levels and
marked reproductive defects, including aberrant seed formation. Notably, the FAP 
discovery defines the adaptive evolution of a stereospecific and catalytically
'perfected' enzyme from a non-enzymatic ancestor over a defined period of plant
evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11009 
PMCID: PMC3880581
PMID: 22622584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):229-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11069.

Comparing the yields of organic and conventional agriculture.

Seufert V(1), Ramankutty N, Foley JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography and Global Environmental and Climate Change Center,
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H2T 3A3, Canada.
verena.seufert@mail.mcgill.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):176-7.

Numerous reports have emphasized the need for major changes in the global food
system: agriculture must meet the twin challenge of feeding a growing population,
with rising demand for meat and high-calorie diets, while simultaneously
minimizing its global environmental impacts. Organic farming—a system aimed at
producing food with minimal harm to ecosystems, animals or humans—is often
proposed as a solution. However, critics argue that organic agriculture may have 
lower yields and would therefore need more land to produce the same amount of
food as conventional farms, resulting in more widespread deforestation and
biodiversity loss, and thus undermining the environmental benefits of organic
practices. Here we use a comprehensive meta-analysis to examine the relative
yield performance of organic and conventional farming systems globally. Our
analysis of available data shows that, overall, organic yields are typically
lower than conventional yields. But these yield differences are highly
contextual, depending on system and site characteristics, and range from 5% lower
organic yields (rain-fed legumes and perennials on weak-acidic to weak-alkaline
soils), 13% lower yields (when best organic practices are used), to 34% lower
yields (when the conventional and organic systems are most comparable). Under
certain conditions—that is, with good management practices, particular crop types
and growing conditions—organic systems can thus nearly match conventional yields,
whereas under others it at present cannot. To establish organic agriculture as an
important tool in sustainable food production, the factors limiting organic
yields need to be more fully understood, alongside assessments of the many
social, environmental and economic benefits of organic farming systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11069 
PMID: 22535250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):251-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10992.

Mitochondrial DNA that escapes from autophagy causes inflammation and heart
failure.

Oka T(1), Hikoso S, Yamaguchi O, Taneike M, Takeda T, Tamai T, Oyabu J, Murakawa 
T, Nakayama H, Nishida K, Akira S, Yamamoto A, Komuro I, Otsu K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Osaka University Graduate School of
Medicine, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):292.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Jul 20;111(3):271-3.
    Am J Transplant. 2012 Dec;12(12):3169.
    Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):179-80.

Heart failure is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in industrialized
countries. Although infection with microorganisms is not involved in the
development of heart failure in most cases, inflammation has been implicated in
the pathogenesis of heart failure. However, the mechanisms responsible for
initiating and integrating inflammatory responses within the heart remain poorly 
defined. Mitochondria are evolutionary endosymbionts derived from bacteria and
contain DNA similar to bacterial DNA. Mitochondria damaged by external
haemodynamic stress are degraded by the autophagy/lysosome system in
cardiomyocytes. Here we show that mitochondrial DNA that escapes from autophagy
cell-autonomously leads to Toll-like receptor (TLR) 9-mediated inflammatory
responses in cardiomyocytes and is capable of inducing myocarditis and dilated
cardiomyopathy. Cardiac-specific deletion of lysosomal deoxyribonuclease (DNase) 
II showed no cardiac phenotypes under baseline conditions, but increased
mortality and caused severe myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy 10 days after 
treatment with pressure overload. Early in the pathogenesis, DNase II-deficient
hearts showed infiltration of inflammatory cells and increased messenger RNA
expression of inflammatory cytokines, with accumulation of mitochondrial DNA
deposits in autolysosomes in the myocardium. Administration of inhibitory
oligodeoxynucleotides against TLR9, which is known to be activated by bacterial
DNA, or ablation of Tlr9 attenuated the development of cardiomyopathy in DNase
II-deficient mice. Furthermore, Tlr9 ablation improved pressure overload-induced 
cardiac dysfunction and inflammation even in mice with wild-type Dnase2a alleles.
These data provide new perspectives on the mechanism of genesis of chronic
inflammation in failing hearts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10992 
PMCID: PMC3378041
PMID: 22535248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):207-12. doi: 10.1038/nature11010.

Molecular mechanism of ATP binding and ion channel activation in P2X receptors.

Hattori M(1), Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

P2X receptors are trimeric ATP-activated ion channels permeable to Na+, K+ and
Ca2+. The seven P2X receptor subtypes are implicated in physiological processes
that include modulation of synaptic transmission, contraction of smooth muscle,
secretion of chemical transmitters and regulation of immune responses. Despite
the importance of P2X receptors in cellular physiology, the three-dimensional
composition of the ATP-binding site, the structural mechanism of ATP-dependent
ion channel gating and the architecture of the open ion channel pore are unknown.
Here we report the crystal structure of the zebrafish P2X4 receptor in complex
with ATP and a new structure of the apo receptor. The agonist-bound structure
reveals a previously unseen ATP-binding motif and an open ion channel pore. ATP
binding induces cleft closure of the nucleotide-binding pocket, flexing of the
lower body β-sheet and a radial expansion of the extracellular vestibule. The
structural widening of the extracellular vestibule is directly coupled to the
opening of the ion channel pore by way of an iris-like expansion of the
transmembrane helices. The structural delineation of the ATP-binding site and the
ion channel pore, together with the conformational changes associated with ion
channel gating, will stimulate development of new pharmacological agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11010 
PMCID: PMC3391165
PMID: 22535247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11020.

Selective cortical representation of attended speaker in multi-talker speech
perception.

Mesgarani N(1), Chang EF.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurological Surgery and Physiology, UCSF Center for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of California, San Francisco, California
94143, USA.

Humans possess a remarkable ability to attend to a single speaker's voice in a
multi-talker background. How the auditory system manages to extract intelligible 
speech under such acoustically complex and adverse listening conditions is not
known, and, indeed, it is not clear how attended speech is internally
represented. Here, using multi-electrode surface recordings from the cortex of
subjects engaged in a listening task with two simultaneous speakers, we
demonstrate that population responses in non-primary human auditory cortex encode
critical features of attended speech: speech spectrograms reconstructed based on 
cortical responses to the mixture of speakers reveal the salient spectral and
temporal features of the attended speaker, as if subjects were listening to that 
speaker alone. A simple classifier trained solely on examples of single speakers 
can decode both attended words and speaker identity. We find that task
performance is well predicted by a rapid increase in attention-modulated neural
selectivity across both single-electrode and population-level cortical responses.
These findings demonstrate that the cortical representation of speech does not
merely reflect the external acoustic environment, but instead gives rise to the
perceptual aspects relevant for the listener's intended goal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11020 
PMCID: PMC3870007
PMID: 22522927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nature. 2012 May 9;486(7402):222-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11053.

Human gut microbiome viewed across age and geography.

Yatsunenko T(1), Rey FE, Manary MJ, Trehan I, Dominguez-Bello MG, Contreras M,
Magris M, Hidalgo G, Baldassano RN, Anokhin AP, Heath AC, Warner B, Reeder J,
Kuczynski J, Caporaso JG, Lozupone CA, Lauber C, Clemente JC, Knights D, Knight
R, Gordon JI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Gut microbial communities represent one source of human genetic and metabolic
diversity. To examine how gut microbiomes differ among human populations, here we
characterize bacterial species in fecal samples from 531 individuals, plus the
gene content of 110 of them. The cohort encompassed healthy children and adults
from the Amazonas of Venezuela, rural Malawi and US metropolitan areas and
included mono- and dizygotic twins. Shared features of the functional maturation 
of the gut microbiome were identified during the first three years of life in all
three populations, including age-associated changes in the genes involved in
vitamin biosynthesis and metabolism. Pronounced differences in bacterial
assemblages and functional gene repertoires were noted between US residents and
those in the other two countries. These distinctive features are evident in early
infancy as well as adulthood. Our findings underscore the need to consider the
microbiome when evaluating human development, nutritional needs, physiological
variations and the impact of westernization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11053 
PMCID: PMC3376388
PMID: 22699611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7400):661-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11066.

AMPK regulates NADPH homeostasis to promote tumour cell survival during energy
stress.

Jeon SM(1), Chandel NS, Hay N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, College of Medicine,
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60607, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 31;485(7400):590-1.

Overcoming metabolic stress is a critical step for solid tumour growth. However, 
the underlying mechanisms of cell death and survival under metabolic stress are
not well understood. A key signalling pathway involved in metabolic adaptation is
the liver kinase B1 (LKB1)-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway. Energy
stress conditions that decrease intracellular ATP levels below a certain level
promote AMPK activation by LKB1. Previous studies showed that LKB1-deficient or
AMPK-deficient cells are resistant to oncogenic transformation and tumorigenesis,
possibly because of the function of AMPK in metabolic adaptation. However, the
mechanisms by which AMPK promotes metabolic adaptation in tumour cells are not
fully understood. Here we show that AMPK activation, during energy stress,
prolongs cell survival by redox regulation. Under these conditions, NADPH
generation by the pentose phosphate pathway is impaired, but AMPK induces
alternative routes to maintain NADPH and inhibit cell death. The inhibition of
the acetyl-CoA carboxylases ACC1 and ACC2 by AMPK maintains NADPH levels by
decreasing NADPH consumption in fatty-acid synthesis and increasing NADPH
generation by means of fatty-acid oxidation. Knockdown of either ACC1 or ACC2
compensates for AMPK activation and facilitates anchorage-independent growth and 
solid tumour formation in vivo, whereas the activation of ACC1 or ACC2 attenuates
these processes. Thus AMPK, in addition to its function in ATP homeostasis, has a
key function in NADPH maintenance, which is critical for cancer cell survival
under energy stress conditions, such as glucose limitations,
anchorage-independent growth and solid tumour formation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11066 
PMCID: PMC3607316
PMID: 22660331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7400):631-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11050.

Accelerated speciation in colour-polymorphic birds.

Hugall AF(1), Stuart-Fox D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria 3010,
Australia. ahugall@museum.vic.gov.au

Colour polymorphism exemplifies extreme morphological diversity within
populations. It is taxonomically widespread but generally rare. Theory suggests
that where colour polymorphism does occur, processes generating and maintaining
it can promote speciation but the generality of this claim is unclear. Here we
confirm, using species-level molecular phylogenies for five families of
non-passerine birds, that colour polymorphism is associated with accelerated
speciation rates in the three groups in which polymorphism is most prevalent. In 
all five groups, colour polymorphism is lost at a significantly greater rate than
it is gained. Thus, the general rarity and phylogenetic dispersion of colour
polymorphism is accounted for by a combination of higher speciation rate and
higher transition rate from polymorphism to monomorphism, consistent with
theoretical models where speciation is driven by fixation of one or more morphs. 
This is corroborated by evidence from a species-level molecular phylogeny of
passerines, incorporating 4,128 (66.5%) extant species, that polymorphic species 
tend to be younger than monomorphic species. Our results provide empirical
support for the general proposition, dating from classical evolutionary theory,
that colour polymorphism can increase speciation rates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11050 
PMID: 22660325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7399):502-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11071.

Melanoma genome sequencing reveals frequent PREX2 mutations.

Berger MF(1), Hodis E, Heffernan TP, Deribe YL, Lawrence MS, Protopopov A,
Ivanova E, Watson IR, Nickerson E, Ghosh P, Zhang H, Zeid R, Ren X, Cibulskis K, 
Sivachenko AY, Wagle N, Sucker A, Sougnez C, Onofrio R, Ambrogio L, Auclair D,
Fennell T, Carter SL, Drier Y, Stojanov P, Singer MA, Voet D, Jing R, Saksena G, 
Barretina J, Ramos AH, Pugh TJ, Stransky N, Parkin M, Winckler W, Mahan S, Ardlie
K, Baldwin J, Wargo J, Schadendorf D, Meyerson M, Gabriel SB, Golub TR, Wagner
SN, Lander ES, Getz G, Chin L, Garraway LA.

Author information: 
(1)The Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Elife. 2014;3. doi: 10.7554/eLife.04180.

Melanoma is notable for its metastatic propensity, lethality in the advanced
setting and association with ultraviolet exposure early in life. To obtain a
comprehensive genomic view of melanoma in humans, we sequenced the genomes of 25 
metastatic melanomas and matched germline DNA. A wide range of point mutation
rates was observed: lowest in melanomas whose primaries arose on
non-ultraviolet-exposed hairless skin of the extremities (3 and 14 per megabase
(Mb) of genome), intermediate in those originating from hair-bearing skin of the 
trunk (5-55 per Mb), and highest in a patient with a documented history of
chronic sun exposure (111 per Mb). Analysis of whole-genome sequence data
identified PREX2 (phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent Rac exchange
factor 2)--a PTEN-interacting protein and negative regulator of PTEN in breast
cancer--as a significantly mutated gene with a mutation frequency of
approximately 14% in an independent extension cohort of 107 human melanomas.
PREX2 mutations are biologically relevant, as ectopic expression of mutant PREX2 
accelerated tumour formation of immortalized human melanocytes in vivo. Thus,
whole-genome sequencing of human melanoma tumours revealed genomic evidence of
ultraviolet pathogenesis and discovered a new recurrently mutated gene in
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11071 
PMCID: PMC3367798
PMID: 22622578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7399):471-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11057.

Brain-wide neuronal dynamics during motor adaptation in zebrafish.

Ahrens MB(1), Li JM, Orger MB, Robson DN, Schier AF, Engert F, Portugues R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, 16 Divinity 
Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):453-5.

A fundamental question in neuroscience is how entire neural circuits generate
behaviour and adapt it to changes in sensory feedback. Here we use two-photon
calcium imaging to record the activity of large populations of neurons at the
cellular level, throughout the brain of larval zebrafish expressing a genetically
encoded calcium sensor, while the paralysed animals interact fictively with a
virtual environment and rapidly adapt their motor output to changes in visual
feedback. We decompose the network dynamics involved in adaptive locomotion into 
four types of neuronal response properties, and provide anatomical maps of the
corresponding sites. A subset of these signals occurred during behavioural
adjustments and are candidates for the functional elements that drive motor
learning. Lesions to the inferior olive indicate a specific functional role for
olivocerebellar circuitry in adaptive locomotion. This study enables the analysis
of brain-wide dynamics at single-cell resolution during behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11057 
PMCID: PMC3618960
PMID: 22622571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7398):339-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11022.

Earth-like sand fluxes on Mars.

Bridges NT(1), Ayoub F, Avouac JP, Leprince S, Lucas A, Mattson S.

Author information: 
(1)Space Department, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel,
Maryland 20723, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):312-3.

Strong and sustained winds on Mars have been considered rare, on the basis of
surface meteorology measurements and global circulation models, raising the
question of whether the abundant dunes and evidence for wind erosion seen on the 
planet are a current process. Recent studies showed sand activity, but could not 
determine whether entire dunes were moving--implying large sand fluxes--or
whether more localized and surficial changes had occurred. Here we present
measurements of the migration rate of sand ripples and dune lee fronts at the
Nili Patera dune field. We show that the dunes are near steady state, with their 
entire volumes composed of mobile sand. The dunes have unexpectedly high sand
fluxes, similar, for example, to those in Victoria Valley, Antarctica, implying
that rates of landscape modification on Mars and Earth are similar.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11022 
PMID: 22596156 


593. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7398):333-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11040.

Cardiac angiogenic imbalance leads to peripartum cardiomyopathy.

Patten IS(1), Rana S, Shahul S, Rowe GC, Jang C, Liu L, Hacker MR, Rhee JS,
Mitchell J, Mahmood F, Hess P, Farrell C, Koulisis N, Khankin EV, Burke SD,
Tudorache I, Bauersachs J, del Monte F, Hilfiker-Kleiner D, Karumanchi SA, Arany 
Z.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Institute, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is an often fatal disease that affects pregnant 
women who are near delivery, and it occurs more frequently in women with
pre-eclampsia and/or multiple gestation. The aetiology of PPCM, and why it is
associated with pre-eclampsia, remain unknown. Here we show that PPCM is
associated with a systemic angiogenic imbalance, accentuated by pre-eclampsia.
Mice that lack cardiac PGC-1α, a powerful regulator of angiogenesis, develop
profound PPCM. Importantly, the PPCM is entirely rescued by pro-angiogenic
therapies. In humans, the placenta in late gestation secretes VEGF inhibitors
like soluble FLT1 (sFLT1), and this is accentuated by multiple gestation and
pre-eclampsia. This anti-angiogenic environment is accompanied by subclinical
cardiac dysfunction, the extent of which correlates with circulating levels of
sFLT1. Exogenous sFLT1 alone caused diastolic dysfunction in wild-type mice, and 
profound systolic dysfunction in mice lacking cardiac PGC-1α. Finally, plasma
samples from women with PPCM contained abnormally high levels of sFLT1. These
data indicate that PPCM is mainly a vascular disease, caused by excess
anti-angiogenic signalling in the peripartum period. The data also explain how
late pregnancy poses a threat to cardiac homeostasis, and why pre-eclampsia and
multiple gestation are important risk factors for the development of PPCM.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11040 
PMCID: PMC3356917
PMID: 22596155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7397):225-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11064.

Twenty-first-century warming of a large Antarctic ice-shelf cavity by a
redirected coastal current.

Hellmer HH(1), Kauker F, Timmermann R, Determann J, Rae J.

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, D-27570 Bremerhaven,
Germany. hartmut.hellmer@awi.de

The Antarctic ice sheet loses mass at its fringes bordering the Southern Ocean.
At this boundary, warm circumpolar water can override the continental slope
front, reaching the grounding line through submarine glacial troughs and causing 
high rates of melting at the deep ice-shelf bases. The interplay between ocean
currents and continental bathymetry is therefore likely to influence future rates
of ice-mass loss. Here we show that a redirection of the coastal current into the
Filchner Trough and underneath the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf during the second
half of the twenty-first century would lead to increased movement of warm waters 
into the deep southern ice-shelf cavity. Water temperatures in the cavity would
increase by more than 2 degrees Celsius and boost average basal melting from 0.2 
metres, or 82 billion tonnes, per year to almost 4 metres, or 1,600 billion
tonnes, per year. Our results, which are based on the output of a coupled
ice-ocean model forced by a range of atmospheric outputs from the HadCM3 climate 
model, suggest that the changes would be caused primarily by an increase in ocean
surface stress in the southeastern Weddell Sea due to thinning of the formerly
consolidated sea-ice cover. The projected ice loss at the base of the
Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf represents 80 per cent of the present Antarctic surface 
mass balance. Thus, the quantification of basal mass loss under changing climate 
conditions is important for projections regarding the dynamics of Antarctic ice
streams and ice shelves, and global sea level rise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11064 
PMID: 22575964 


595. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7397):221-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11002.

Patterning by controlled cracking.

Nam KH(1), Park IH, Ko SH.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center of MEMS Space Telescope, Department of Physics, Ewha Womans
University, Daehyun-dong 11-1, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-750, South Korea.
koonam@namk.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):177-8.

Crack formation drives material failure and is often regarded as a process to be 
avoided. However, closer examination of cracking phenomena has revealed
exquisitely intricate patterns such as spirals, oscillating and branched fracture
paths and fractal geometries. Here we demonstrate the controlled initiation,
propagation and termination of a variety of channelled crack patterns in a
film/substrate system comprising a silicon nitride thin film deposited on a
silicon substrate using low-pressure chemical vapour deposition. Micro-notches
etched into the silicon substrate concentrated stress for crack initiation, which
occurred spontaneously during deposition of the silicon nitride layer. We
reproducibly created three distinct crack morphologies--straight, oscillatory and
orderly bifurcated (stitchlike)--through careful selection of processing
conditions and parameters. We induced direction changes by changing the system
parameters, and we terminated propagation at pre-formed multi-step crack stops.
We believe that our patterning technique presents new opportunities in
nanofabrication and offers a starting point for atomic-scale pattern formation,
which would be difficult even with current state-of-the-art nanofabrication
methodologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11002 
PMID: 22575963 


596. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7397):213-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11096.

The suppression of star formation by powerful active galactic nuclei.

Page MJ(1), Symeonidis M, Vieira JD, Altieri B, Amblard A, Arumugam V, Aussel H, 
Babbedge T, Blain A, Bock J, Boselli A, Buat V, Castro-Rodríguez N, Cava A,
Chanial P, Clements DL, Conley A, Conversi L, Cooray A, Dowell CD, Dubois EN,
Dunlop JS, Dwek E, Dye S, Eales S, Elbaz D, Farrah D, Fox M, Franceschini A, Gear
W, Glenn J, Griffin M, Halpern M, Hatziminaoglou E, Ibar E, Isaak K, Ivison RJ,
Lagache G, Levenson L, Lu N, Madden S, Maffei B, Mainetti G, Marchetti L, Nguyen 
HT, O'Halloran B, Oliver SJ, Omont A, Panuzzo P, Papageorgiou A, Pearson CP,
Pérez-Fournon I, Pohlen M, Rawlings JI, Rigopoulou D, Riguccini L, Rizzo D,
Rodighiero G, Roseboom IG, Rowan-Robinson M, Sánchez Portal M, Schulz B, Scott D,
Seymour N, Shupe DL, Smith AJ, Stevens JA, Trichas M, Tugwell KE, Vaccari M,
Valtchanov I, Viero M, Vigroux L, Wang L, Ward R, Wright G, Xu CK, Zemcov M.

Author information: 
(1)Mullard Space Science Laboratory, University College London, Holmbury St Mary,
Dorking, Surrey RH5 6NT, UK. mjp@mssl.ucl.ac.uk

The old, red stars that constitute the bulges of galaxies, and the massive black 
holes at their centres, are the relics of a period in cosmic history when
galaxies formed stars at remarkable rates and active galactic nuclei (AGN) shone 
brightly as a result of accretion onto black holes. It is widely suspected, but
unproved, that the tight correlation between the mass of the black hole and the
mass of the stellar bulge results from the AGN quenching the surrounding star
formation as it approaches its peak luminosity. X-rays trace emission from AGN
unambiguously, whereas powerful star-forming galaxies are usually dust-obscured
and are brightest at infrared and submillimetre wavelengths. Here we report
submillimetre and X-ray observations that show that rapid star formation was
common in the host galaxies of AGN when the Universe was 2-6 billion years old,
but that the most vigorous star formation is not observed around black holes
above an X-ray luminosity of 10(44) ergs per second. This suppression of star
formation in the host galaxy of a powerful AGN is a key prediction of models in
which the AGN drives an outflow, expelling the interstellar medium of its host
and transforming the galaxy's properties in a brief period of cosmic time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11096 
PMID: 22575961 


597. Nature. 2012 May 9;485(7397):185-94. doi: 10.1038/nature11117.

Engineering the third wave of biocatalysis.

Bornscheuer UT(1), Huisman GW, Kazlauskas RJ, Lutz S, Moore JC, Robins K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Department of Biotechnology & Enzyme Catalysis,
Greifswald University, Felix-Hausdorff-Straße 4, D-17487 Greifswald, Germany.
uwe.bornscheuer@uni-greifswald.de

Over the past ten years, scientific and technological advances have established
biocatalysis as a practical and environmentally friendly alternative to
traditional metallo- and organocatalysis in chemical synthesis, both in the
laboratory and on an industrial scale. Key advances in DNA sequencing and gene
synthesis are at the base of tremendous progress in tailoring biocatalysts by
protein engineering and design, and the ability to reorganize enzymes into new
biosynthetic pathways. To highlight these achievements, here we discuss
applications of protein-engineered biocatalysts ranging from commodity chemicals 
to advanced pharmaceutical intermediates that use enzyme catalysis as a key step.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11117 
PMID: 22575958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2012 May 6;486(7401):126-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11055.

An oxygen-regulated switch in the protein synthesis machinery.

Uniacke J(1), Holterman CE, Lachance G, Franovic A, Jacob MD, Fabian MR, Payette 
J, Holcik M, Pause A, Lee S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Protein synthesis involves the translation of ribonucleic acid information into
proteins, the building blocks of life. The initial step of protein synthesis is
the binding of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) to the
7-methylguanosine (m(7)-GpppG) 5' cap of messenger RNAs. Low oxygen tension
(hypoxia) represses cap-mediated translation by sequestering eIF4E through
mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-dependent mechanisms. Although the internal 
ribosome entry site is an alternative translation initiation mechanism, this
pathway alone cannot account for the translational capacity of hypoxic cells.
This raises a fundamental question in biology as to how proteins are synthesized 
in periods of oxygen scarcity and eIF4E inhibition. Here we describe an
oxygen-regulated translation initiation complex that mediates selective
cap-dependent protein synthesis. We show that hypoxia stimulates the formation of
a complex that includes the oxygen-regulated hypoxia-inducible factor 2α
(HIF-2α), the RNA-binding protein RBM4 and the cap-binding eIF4E2, an eIF4E
homologue. Photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and
immunoprecipitation (PAR-CLIP) analysis identified an RNA hypoxia response
element (rHRE) that recruits this complex to a wide array of mRNAs, including
that encoding the epidermal growth factor receptor. Once assembled at the rHRE,
the HIF-2α-RBM4-eIF4E2 complex captures the 5' cap and targets mRNAs to polysomes
for active translation, thereby evading hypoxia-induced repression of protein
synthesis. These findings demonstrate that cells have evolved a program by which 
oxygen tension switches the basic translation initiation machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11055 
PMCID: PMC4974072
PMID: 22678294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 2012 May 6;485(7399):526-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11006.

The complex of tmRNA-SmpB and EF-G on translocating ribosomes.

Ramrath DJ(1), Yamamoto H, Rother K, Wittek D, Pech M, Mielke T, Loerke J,
Scheerer P, Ivanov P, Teraoka Y, Shpanchenko O, Nierhaus KH, Spahn CM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Physik und Biophysik, Charite - Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Ziegelstrasse 5-9, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

Bacterial ribosomes stalled at the 3' end of malfunctioning messenger RNAs can be
rescued by transfer-messenger RNA (tmRNA)-mediated trans-translation. The SmpB
protein forms a complex with the tmRNA, and the transfer-RNA-like domain (TLD) of
the tmRNA then enters the A site of the ribosome. Subsequently, the TLD-SmpB
module is translocated to the P site, a process that is facilitated by the
elongation factor EF-G, and translation is switched to the mRNA-like domain (MLD)
of the tmRNA. Accurate loading of the MLD into the mRNA path is an unusual
initiation mechanism. Despite various snapshots of different ribosome-tmRNA
complexes at low to intermediate resolution, it is unclear how the large, highly 
structured tmRNA is translocated and how the MLD is loaded. Here we present a
cryo-electron microscopy reconstruction of a fusidic-acid-stalled ribosomal
70S-tmRNA-SmpB-EF-G complex (carrying both of the large ligands, that is, EF-G
and tmRNA) at 8.3 Å resolution. This post-translocational intermediate (TI(POST))
presents the TLD-SmpB module in an intrasubunit ap/P hybrid site and a tRNA(fMet)
in an intrasubunit pe/E hybrid site. Conformational changes in the ribosome and
tmRNA occur in the intersubunit space and on the solvent side. The key underlying
event is a unique extra-large swivel movement of the 30S head, which is crucial
for both tmRNA-SmpB translocation and MLD loading, thereby coupling translocation
to MLD loading. This mechanism exemplifies the versatile, dynamic nature of the
ribosome, and it shows that the conformational modes of the ribosome that
normally drive canonical translation can also be used in a modified form to
facilitate more complex tasks in specialized non-canonical pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11006 
PMID: 22622583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 2012 May 6;485(7399):507-11. doi: 10.1038/nature11058.

Sustained translational repression by eIF2α-P mediates prion neurodegeneration.

Moreno JA(1), Radford H, Peretti D, Steinert JR, Verity N, Martin MG, Halliday M,
Morgan J, Dinsdale D, Ortori CA, Barrett DA, Tsaytler P, Bertolotti A, Willis AE,
Bushell M, Mallucci GR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Toxicology Unit, Hodgkin Building, University of Leicester, Lancaster
Road, Leicester LE1 9HN, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature.2014 Jul 17;511(7509):370.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2012 Sep 1;27(10):1218.

The mechanisms leading to neuronal death in neurodegenerative disease are poorly 
understood. Many of these disorders, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and prion
diseases, are associated with the accumulation of misfolded disease-specific
proteins. The unfolded protein response is a protective cellular mechanism
triggered by rising levels of misfolded proteins. One arm of this pathway results
in the transient shutdown of protein translation, through phosphorylation of the 
α-subunit of eukaryotic translation initiation factor, eIF2. Activation of the
unfolded protein response and/or increased eIF2α-P levels are seen in patients
with Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and prion diseases, but how this links to
neurodegeneration is unknown. Here we show that accumulation of prion protein
during prion replication causes persistent translational repression of global
protein synthesis by eIF2α-P, associated with synaptic failure and neuronal loss 
in prion-diseased mice. Further, we show that promoting translational recovery in
hippocampi of prion-infected mice is neuroprotective. Overexpression of GADD34, a
specific eIF2α-P phosphatase, as well as reduction of levels of prion protein by 
lentivirally mediated RNA interference, reduced eIF2α-P levels. As a result, both
approaches restored vital translation rates during prion disease, rescuing
synaptic deficits and neuronal loss, thereby significantly increasing survival.
In contrast, salubrinal, an inhibitor of eIF2α-P dephosphorylation, increased
eIF2α-P levels, exacerbating neurotoxicity and significantly reducing survival in
prion-diseased mice. Given the prevalence of protein misfolding and activation of
the unfolded protein response in several neurodegenerative diseases, our results 
suggest that manipulation of common pathways such as translational control,
rather than disease-specific approaches, may lead to new therapies preventing
synaptic failure and neuronal loss across the spectrum of these disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11058 
PMCID: PMC3378208
PMID: 22622579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):75-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10982.

Impact spherules as a record of an ancient heavy bombardment of Earth.

Johnson BC(1), Melosh HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Purdue University, 525 Northwestern Avenue, West
Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA. johns477@purdue.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):44-5.

Impact craters are the most obvious indication of asteroid impacts, but craters
on Earth are quickly obscured or destroyed by surface weathering and tectonic
processes. Earth’s impact history is inferred therefore either from estimates of 
the present-day impactor flux as determined by observations of near-Earth
asteroids, or from the Moon’s incomplete impact chronology. Asteroids hitting
Earth typically vaporize a mass of target rock comparable to the projectile’s
mass. As this vapour expands in a large plume or fireball, it cools and condenses
into molten droplets called spherules. For asteroids larger than about ten
kilometres in diameter, these spherules are deposited in a global layer. Spherule
layers preserved in the geologic record accordingly provide information about an 
impact even when the source crater cannot be found. Here we report estimates of
the sizes and impact velocities of the asteroids that created global spherule
layers. The impact chronology from these spherule layers reveals that the
impactor flux was significantly higher 3.5 billion years ago than it is now. This
conclusion is consistent with a gradual decline of the impactor flux after the
Late Heavy Bombardment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10982 
PMID: 22535246 


602. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10967.

An Archaean heavy bombardment from a destabilized extension of the asteroid belt.

Bottke WF(1), Vokrouhlický D, Minton D, Nesvorný D, Morbidelli A, Brasser R,
Simonson B, Levison HF.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest Research Institute and NASA Lunar Science Institute, 1050 Walnut
Street, Suite 300, Boulder, Colorado 80302, USA. bottke@boulder.swri.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):44-5.

The barrage of comets and asteroids that produced many young lunar basins
(craters over 300 kilometres in diameter) has frequently been called the Late
Heavy Bombardment (LHB). Many assume the LHB ended about 3.7 to 3.8 billion years
(Gyr) ago with the formation of Orientale basin. Evidence for LHB-sized blasts on
Earth, however, extend into the Archaean and early Proterozoic eons, in the form 
of impact spherule beds: globally distributed ejecta layers created by
Chicxulub-sized or larger cratering events4. At least seven spherule beds have
been found that formed between 3.23 and 3.47 Gyr ago, four between 2.49 and
2.63 Gyr ago, and one between 1.7 and 2.1 Gyr ago. Here we report that the LHB
lasted much longer than previously thought, with most late impactors coming from 
the E belt, an extended and now largely extinct portion of the asteroid belt
between 1.7 and 2.1 astronomical units from Earth. This region was destabilized
by late giant planet migration. E-belt survivors now make up the high-inclination
Hungaria asteroids. Scaling from the observed Hungaria asteroids, we find that
E-belt projectiles made about ten lunar basins between 3.7 and 4.1 Gyr ago. They 
also produced about 15 terrestrial basins between 2.5 and 3.7 Gyr ago, as well as
around 70 and four Chicxulub-sized or larger craters on the Earth and Moon,
respectively, between 1.7 and 3.7 Gyr ago. These rates reproduce impact spherule 
bed and lunar crater constraints.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10967 
PMID: 22535245 


603. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature10997.

Restoration of vision after transplantation of photoreceptors.

Pearson RA(1), Barber AC, Rizzi M, Hippert C, Xue T, West EL, Duran Y, Smith AJ, 
Chuang JZ, Azam SA, Luhmann UF, Benucci A, Sung CH, Bainbridge JW, Carandini M,
Yau KW, Sowden JC, Ali RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, University College
London, 11–43 Bath Street, London, EC1V 9EL, UK. rachael.pearson@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Regen Med. 2012 Sep;7(5):627-9.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Jun;13(6):360-1.

Cell transplantation is a potential strategy for treating blindness caused by the
loss of photoreceptors. Although transplanted rod-precursor cells are able to
migrate into the adult retina and differentiate to acquire the specialized
morphological features of mature photoreceptor cells, the fundamental question
remains whether transplantation of photoreceptor cells can actually improve
vision. Here we provide evidence of functional rod-mediated vision after
photoreceptor transplantation in adult Gnat1−/− mice, which lack rod function and
are a model of congenital stationary night blindness. We show that transplanted
rod precursors form classic triad synaptic connections with second-order bipolar 
and horizontal cells in the recipient retina. The newly integrated photoreceptor 
cells are light-responsive with dim-flash kinetics similar to adult wild-type
photoreceptors. By using intrinsic imaging under scotopic conditions we
demonstrate that visual signals generated by transplanted rods are projected to
higher visual areas, including V1. Moreover, these cells are capable of driving
optokinetic head tracking and visually guided behaviour in the Gnat1−/− mouse
under scotopic conditions. Together, these results demonstrate the feasibility of
photoreceptor transplantation as a therapeutic strategy for restoring vision
after retinal degeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10997 
PMCID: PMC3888831
PMID: 22522934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10974.

Spin-orbital separation in the quasi-one-dimensional Mott insulator Sr2CuO3.

Schlappa J(1), Wohlfeld K, Zhou KJ, Mourigal M, Haverkort MW, Strocov VN, Hozoi
L, Monney C, Nishimoto S, Singh S, Revcolevschi A, Caux JS, Patthey L, Rønnow HM,
van den Brink J, Schmitt T.

Author information: 
(1)Paul Scherrer Institut, Swiss Light Source, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland.
justine.schlappa@helmholtz-berlin.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):46-7.

When viewed as an elementary particle, the electron has spin and charge. When
binding to the atomic nucleus, it also acquires an angular momentum quantum
number corresponding to the quantized atomic orbital it occupies. Even if
electrons in solids form bands and delocalize from the nuclei, in Mott insulators
they retain their three fundamental quantum numbers: spin, charge and orbital.
The hallmark of one-dimensional physics is a breaking up of the elementary
electron into its separate degrees of freedom. The separation of the electron
into independent quasi-particles that carry either spin (spinons) or charge
(holons) was first observed fifteen years ago. Here we report observation of the 
separation of the orbital degree of freedom (orbiton) using resonant inelastic
X-ray scattering on the one-dimensional Mott insulator Sr2CuO3. We resolve an
orbiton separating itself from spinons and propagating through the lattice as a
distinct quasi-particle with a substantial dispersion in energy over momentum, of
about 0.2 electronvolts, over nearly one Brillouin zone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10974 
PMID: 22522933 


605. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):95-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10995.

Evidence of non-random mutation rates suggests an evolutionary risk management
strategy.

Martincorena I(1), Seshasayee AS, Luscombe NM.

Author information: 
(1)EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus,
Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. martinco@ebi.ac.uk

A central tenet in evolutionary theory is that mutations occur randomly with
respect to their value to an organism; selection then governs whether they are
fixed in a population. This principle has been challenged by long-standing
theoretical models predicting that selection could modulate the rate of mutation 
itself. However, our understanding of how the mutation rate varies between
different sites within a genome has been hindered by technical difficulties in
measuring it. Here we present a study that overcomes previous limitations by
combining phylogenetic and population genetic techniques. Upon comparing 34
Escherichia coli genomes, we observe that the neutral mutation rate varies by
more than an order of magnitude across 2,659 genes, with mutational hot and cold 
spots spanning several kilobases. Importantly, the variation is not random: we
detect a lower rate in highly expressed genes and in those undergoing stronger
purifying selection. Our observations suggest that the mutation rate has been
evolutionarily optimized to reduce the risk of deleterious mutations. Current
knowledge of factors influencing the mutation rate—including
transcription-coupled repair and context-dependent mutagenesis—do not explain
these observations, indicating that additional mechanisms must be involved. The
findings have important implications for our understanding of evolution and the
control of mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10995 
PMID: 22522932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):133-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10994.

Stereospecific binding of a disordered peptide segment mediates BK channel
inactivation.

Gonzalez-Perez V(1), Zeng XH, Henzler-Wildman K, Lingle CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St
Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Sep 27;489(7417):590.

A number of functionally important actions of proteins are mediated by short,
intrinsically disordered peptide segments, but the molecular interactions that
allow disordered domains to mediate their effects remain a topic of active
investigation. Many K+ channel proteins, after initial channel opening, show a
time-dependent reduction in current flux, termed 'inactivation', which involves
movement of mobile cytosolic peptide segments (approximately 20-30 residues) into
a position that physically occludes ion permeation. Peptide segments that produce
inactivation show little amino-acid identity and tolerate appreciable mutational 
substitutions without disrupting the inactivation process. Solution nuclear
magnetic resonance of several isolated inactivation domains reveals substantial
conformational heterogeneity with only minimal tendency to ordered structures.
Channel inactivation mechanisms may therefore help us to decipher how
intrinsically disordered regions mediate functional effects. Whereas many aspects
of inactivation of voltage-dependent K+ channels (Kv) can be described by a
simple one-step occlusion mechanism, inactivation of the voltage-dependent
large-conductance Ca2+-gated K+ (BK) channel mediated by peptide segments of
auxiliary β-subunits involves two distinguishable kinetic steps. Here we show
that two-step inactivation mediated by an intrinsically disordered BK β-subunit
peptide involves a stereospecific binding interaction that precedes blockade. In 
contrast, blocking mediated by a Shaker Kv inactivation peptide is consistent
with direct, simple occlusion by a hydrophobic segment without substantial steric
requirement. The results indicate that two distinct types of molecular
interaction between disordered peptide segments and their binding sites produce
qualitatively similar functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10994 
PMCID: PMC3348258
PMID: 22522931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):69-74. doi: 10.1038/nature11000.

Osteoprotection by semaphorin 3A.

Hayashi M(1), Nakashima T, Taniguchi M, Kodama T, Kumanogoh A, Takayanagi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Signaling, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, 
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Yushima 1-5-45, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8549,
Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):47-8.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Jun;11(6):442.

The bony skeleton is maintained by local factors that regulate bone-forming
osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts, in addition to hormonal activity.
Osteoprotegerin protects bone by inhibiting osteoclastic bone resorption, but no 
factor has yet been identified as a local determinant of bone mass that regulates
both osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Here we show that semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) exerts
an osteoprotective effect by both suppressing osteoclastic bone resorption and
increasing osteoblastic bone formation. The binding of Sema3A to neuropilin-1
(Nrp1) inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced
osteoclast differentiation by inhibiting the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based
activation motif (ITAM) and RhoA signalling pathways. In addition, Sema3A and
Nrp1 binding stimulated osteoblast and inhibited adipocyte differentiation
through the canonical Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway. The osteopenic phenotype 
in Sema3a−/− mice was recapitulated by mice in which the Sema3A-binding site of
Nrp1 had been genetically disrupted. Intravenous Sema3A administration in mice
increased bone volume and expedited bone regeneration. Thus, Sema3A is a
promising new therapeutic agent in bone and joint diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11000 
PMID: 22522930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 2012 May 2;486(7403):420-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10831.

Experimental adaptation of an influenza H5 HA confers respiratory droplet
transmission to a reassortant H5 HA/H1N1 virus in ferrets.

Imai M(1), Watanabe T, Hatta M, Das SC, Ozawa M, Shinya K, Zhong G, Hanson A,
Katsura H, Watanabe S, Li C, Kawakami E, Yamada S, Kiso M, Suzuki Y, Maher EA,
Neumann G, Kawaoka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiological Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin 53711, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):332-3.

Highly pathogenic avian H5N1 influenza A viruses occasionally infect humans, but 
currently do not transmit efficiently among humans. The viral haemagglutinin (HA)
protein is a known host-range determinant as it mediates virus binding to
host-specific cellular receptors. Here we assess the molecular changes in HA that
would allow a virus possessing subtype H5 HA to be transmissible among mammals.
We identified a reassortant H5 HA/H1N1 virus-comprising H5 HA (from an H5N1
virus) with four mutations and the remaining seven gene segments from a 2009
pandemic H1N1 virus-that was capable of droplet transmission in a ferret model.
The transmissible H5 reassortant virus preferentially recognized human-type
receptors, replicated efficiently in ferrets, caused lung lesions and weight
loss, but was not highly pathogenic and did not cause mortality. These results
indicate that H5 HA can convert to an HA that supports efficient viral
transmission in mammals; however, we do not know whether the four mutations in
the H5 HA identified here would render a wholly avian H5N1 virus transmissible.
The genetic origin of the remaining seven viral gene segments may also critically
contribute to transmissibility in mammals. Nevertheless, as H5N1 viruses continue
to evolve and infect humans, receptor-binding variants of H5N1 viruses with
pandemic potential, including avian-human reassortant viruses as tested here, may
emerge. Our findings emphasize the need to prepare for potential pandemics caused
by influenza viruses possessing H5 HA, and will help individuals conducting
surveillance in regions with circulating H5N1 viruses to recognize key residues
that predict the pandemic potential of isolates, which will inform the
development, production and distribution of effective countermeasures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10831 
PMCID: PMC3388103
PMID: 22722205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 2012 May 2;486(7401):118-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11110.

Clonally related visual cortical neurons show similar stimulus feature
selectivity.

Li Y(1), Lu H, Cheng PL, Ge S, Xu H, Shi SH, Dan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University
of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 7;486(7401):41-2.
    Neuron. 2012 Jul 12;75(1):4-5.

A fundamental feature of the mammalian neocortex is its columnar organization. In
the visual cortex, functional columns consisting of neurons with similar
orientation preferences have been characterized extensively, but how these
columns are constructed during development remains unclear. The radial unit
hypothesis posits that the ontogenetic columns formed by clonally related neurons
migrating along the same radial glial fibre during corticogenesis provide the
basis for functional columns in adult neocortex. However, a direct correspondence
between the ontogenetic and functional columns has not been demonstrated. Here we
show that, despite the lack of a discernible orientation map in mouse visual
cortex, sister neurons in the same radial clone exhibit similar orientation
preferences. Using a retroviral vector encoding green fluorescent protein to
label radial clones of excitatory neurons, and in vivo two-photon calcium imaging
to measure neuronal response properties, we found that sister neurons preferred
similar orientations whereas nearby non-sister neurons showed no such
relationship. Interestingly, disruption of gap junction coupling by viral
expression of a dominant-negative mutant of Cx26 (also known as Gjb2) or by daily
administration of a gap junction blocker, carbenoxolone, during the first
postnatal week greatly diminished the functional similarity between sister
neurons, suggesting that the maturation of ontogenetic into functional columns
requires intercellular communication through gap junctions. Together with the
recent finding of preferential excitatory connections among sister neurons, our
results support the radial unit hypothesis and unify the ontogenetic and
functional columns in the visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11110 
PMCID: PMC3375857
PMID: 22678292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 2012 May 2;486(7401):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10958.

Preferential electrical coupling regulates neocortical lineage-dependent
microcircuit assembly.

Yu YC(1), He S, Chen S, Fu Y, Brown KN, Yao XH, Ma J, Gao KP, Sosinsky GE, Huang 
K, Shi SH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurobiology, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, Fudan
University, 138 Yixueyuan Road, Shanghai 200032, China. ycyu@fudan.edu.cn

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jun 7;486(7401):41-2.

Radial glial cells are the primary neural progenitor cells in the developing
neocortex. Consecutive asymmetric divisions of individual radial glial progenitor
cells produce a number of sister excitatory neurons that migrate along the
elongated radial glial fibre, resulting in the formation of ontogenetic columns. 
Moreover, sister excitatory neurons in ontogenetic columns preferentially develop
specific chemical synapses with each other rather than with nearby non-siblings. 
Although these findings provide crucial insight into the emergence of functional 
columns in the neocortex, little is known about the basis of this
lineage-dependent assembly of excitatory neuron microcircuits at single-cell
resolution. Here we show that transient electrical coupling between radially
aligned sister excitatory neurons regulates the subsequent formation of specific 
chemical synapses in the neocortex. Multiple-electrode whole-cell recordings
showed that sister excitatory neurons preferentially form strong electrical
coupling with each other rather than with adjacent non-sister excitatory neurons 
during early postnatal stages. This preferential coupling allows selective
electrical communication between sister excitatory neurons, promoting their
action potential generation and synchronous firing. Interestingly, although this 
electrical communication largely disappears before the appearance of chemical
synapses, blockade of the electrical communication impairs the subsequent
formation of specific chemical synapses between sister excitatory neurons in
ontogenetic columns. These results suggest a strong link between
lineage-dependent transient electrical coupling and the assembly of precise
excitatory neuron microcircuits in the neocortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10958 
PMCID: PMC3599787
PMID: 22678291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2012 May 2;486(7401):105-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11118.

A global synthesis reveals biodiversity loss as a major driver of ecosystem
change.

Hooper DU(1), Adair EC, Cardinale BJ, Byrnes JE, Hungate BA, Matulich KL,
Gonzalez A, Duffy JE, Gamfeldt L, O'Connor MI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Western Washington University, Bellingham, Washington
98225-9160, USA. hooper@biol.wwu.edu

Evidence is mounting that extinctions are altering key processes important to the
productivity and sustainability of Earth's ecosystems. Further species loss will 
accelerate change in ecosystem processes, but it is unclear how these effects
compare to the direct effects of other forms of environmental change that are
both driving diversity loss and altering ecosystem function. Here we use a suite 
of meta-analyses of published data to show that the effects of species loss on
productivity and decomposition--two processes important in all ecosystems--are of
comparable magnitude to the effects of many other global environmental changes.
In experiments, intermediate levels of species loss (21-40%) reduced plant
production by 5-10%, comparable to previously documented effects of ultraviolet
radiation and climate warming. Higher levels of extinction (41-60%) had effects
rivalling those of ozone, acidification, elevated CO(2) and nutrient pollution.
At intermediate levels, species loss generally had equal or greater effects on
decomposition than did elevated CO(2) and nitrogen addition. The identity of
species lost also had a large effect on changes in productivity and
decomposition, generating a wide range of plausible outcomes for extinction.
Despite the need for more studies on interactive effects of diversity loss and
environmental changes, our analyses clearly show that the ecosystem consequences 
of local species loss are as quantitatively significant as the direct effects of 
several global change stressors that have mobilized major international concern
and remediation efforts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11118 
PMID: 22678289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2012 May 2;485(7400):651-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11060.

Prion-like behaviour and tau-dependent cytotoxicity of pyroglutamylated
amyloid-β.

Nussbaum JM(1), Schilling S, Cynis H, Silva A, Swanson E, Wangsanut T, Tayler K, 
Wiltgen B, Hatami A, Rönicke R, Reymann K, Hutter-Paier B, Alexandru A, Jagla W, 
Graubner S, Glabe CG, Demuth HU, Bloom GS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22904, USA.

Extracellular plaques of amyloid-β and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles made
from tau are the histopathological signatures of Alzheimer's disease. Plaques
comprise amyloid-β fibrils that assemble from monomeric and oligomeric
intermediates, and are prognostic indicators of Alzheimer's disease. Despite the 
importance of plaques to Alzheimer's disease, oligomers are considered to be the 
principal toxic forms of amyloid-β. Interestingly, many adverse responses to
amyloid-β, such as cytotoxicity, microtubule loss, impaired memory and learning, 
and neuritic degeneration, are greatly amplified by tau expression.
Amino-terminally truncated, pyroglutamylated (pE) forms of amyloid-β are strongly
associated with Alzheimer's disease, are more toxic than amyloid-β, residues 1-42
(Aβ(1-42)) and Aβ(1-40), and have been proposed as initiators of Alzheimer's
disease pathogenesis. Here we report a mechanism by which pE-Aβ may trigger
Alzheimer's disease. Aβ(3(pE)-42) co-oligomerizes with excess Aβ(1-42) to form
metastable low-n oligomers (LNOs) that are structurally distinct and far more
cytotoxic to cultured neurons than comparable LNOs made from Aβ(1-42) alone. Tau 
is required for cytotoxicity, and LNOs comprising 5% Aβ(3(pE)-42) plus 95%
Aβ(1-42) (5% pE-Aβ) seed new cytotoxic LNOs through multiple serial dilutions
into Aβ(1-42) monomers in the absence of additional Aβ(3(pE)-42). LNOs isolated
from human Alzheimer's disease brain contained Aβ(3(pE)-42), and enhanced
Aβ(3(pE)-42) formation in mice triggered neuron loss and gliosis at 3 months, but
not in a tau-null background. We conclude that Aβ(3(pE)-42) confers tau-dependent
neuronal death and causes template-induced misfolding of Aβ(1-42) into
structurally distinct LNOs that propagate by a prion-like mechanism. Our results 
raise the possibility that Aβ(3(pE)-42) acts similarly at a primary step in
Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11060 
PMCID: PMC3367389
PMID: 22660329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2012 May 2;485(7399):494-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11014.

Warming experiments underpredict plant phenological responses to climate change.

Wolkovich EM(1), Cook BI, Allen JM, Crimmins TM, Betancourt JL, Travers SE, Pau
S, Regetz J, Davies TJ, Kraft NJ, Ault TR, Bolmgren K, Mazer SJ, McCabe GJ,
McGill BJ, Parmesan C, Salamin N, Schwartz MD, Cleland EE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California San Diego, 9500
Gilman Drive 0116, La Jolla, California 92093, USA. wolkovich@biodiversity.ubc.ca

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):448-9.

Warming experiments are increasingly relied on to estimate plant responses to
global climate change. For experiments to provide meaningful predictions of
future responses, they should reflect the empirical record of responses to
temperature variability and recent warming, including advances in the timing of
flowering and leafing. We compared phenology (the timing of recurring life
history events) in observational studies and warming experiments spanning four
continents and 1,634 plant species using a common measure of temperature
sensitivity (change in days per degree Celsius). We show that warming experiments
underpredict advances in the timing of flowering and leafing by 8.5-fold and
4.0-fold, respectively, compared with long-term observations. For species that
were common to both study types, the experimental results did not match the
observational data in sign or magnitude. The observational data also showed that 
species that flower earliest in the spring have the highest temperature
sensitivities, but this trend was not reflected in the experimental data. These
significant mismatches seem to be unrelated to the study length or to the degree 
of manipulated warming in experiments. The discrepancy between experiments and
observations, however, could arise from complex interactions among multiple
drivers in the observational data, or it could arise from remediable artefacts in
the experiments that result in lower irradiance and drier soils, thus dampening
the phenological responses to manipulated warming. Our results introduce
uncertainty into ecosystem models that are informed solely by experiments and
suggest that responses to climate change that are predicted using such models
should be re-evaluated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11014 
PMID: 22622576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 2012 May 2;485(7397):217-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10990.

An ultraviolet-optical flare from the tidal disruption of a helium-rich stellar
core.

Gezari S(1), Chornock R, Rest A, Huber ME, Forster K, Berger E, Challis PJ, Neill
JD, Martin DC, Heckman T, Lawrence A, Norman C, Narayan G, Foley RJ, Marion GH,
Scolnic D, Chomiuk L, Soderberg A, Smith K, Kirshner RP, Riess AG, Smartt SJ,
Stubbs CW, Tonry JL, Wood-Vasey WM, Burgett WS, Chambers KC, Grav T, Heasley JN, 
Kaiser N, Kudritzki RP, Magnier EA, Morgan JS, Price PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 North
Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 10;485(7397):183.

The flare of radiation from the tidal disruption and accretion of a star can be
used as a marker for supermassive black holes that otherwise lie dormant and
undetected in the centres of distant galaxies. Previous candidate flares have had
declining light curves in good agreement with expectations, but with poor
constraints on the time of disruption and the type of star disrupted, because the
rising emission was not observed. Recently, two 'relativistic' candidate tidal
disruption events were discovered, each of whose extreme X-ray luminosity and
synchrotron radio emission were interpreted as the onset of emission from a
relativistic jet. Here we report a luminous ultraviolet-optical flare from the
nuclear region of an inactive galaxy at a redshift of 0.1696. The observed
continuum is cooler than expected for a simple accreting debris disk, but the
well-sampled rise and decay of the light curve follow the predicted mass
accretion rate and can be modelled to determine the time of disruption to an
accuracy of two days. The black hole has a mass of about two million solar
masses, modulo a factor dependent on the mass and radius of the star disrupted.
On the basis of the spectroscopic signature of ionized helium from the unbound
debris, we determine that the disrupted star was a helium-rich stellar core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10990 
PMID: 22575962 


615. Nature. 2012 May 2;485(7396):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature11083.

A unifying model for mTORC1-mediated regulation of mRNA translation.

Thoreen CC(1), Chantranupong L, Keys HR, Wang T, Gray NS, Sabatini DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, 250 Longwood
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2012 Dec;188(6):2433-4.
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):50-1.

The mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) kinase nucleates a pathway that promotes cell growth 
and proliferation and is the target of rapamycin, a drug with many clinical uses.
mTORC1 regulates messenger RNA translation, but the overall translational program
is poorly defined and no unifying model exists to explain how mTORC1
differentially controls the translation of specific mRNAs. Here we use
high-resolution transcriptome-scale ribosome profiling to monitor translation in 
mouse cells acutely treated with the mTOR inhibitor Torin 1, which, unlike
rapamycin, fully inhibits mTORC1 (ref. 2). Our data reveal a surprisingly simple 
model of the mRNA features and mechanisms that confer mTORC1-dependent
translation control. The subset of mRNAs that are specifically regulated by
mTORC1 consists almost entirely of transcripts with established 5' terminal
oligopyrimidine (TOP) motifs, or, like Hsp90ab1 and Ybx1, with previously
unrecognized TOP or related TOP-like motifs that we identified. We find no
evidence to support proposals that mTORC1 preferentially regulates mRNAs with
increased 5' untranslated region length or complexity. mTORC1 phosphorylates a
myriad of translational regulators, but how it controls TOP mRNA translation is
unknown. Remarkably, loss of just the 4E-BP family of translational repressors,
arguably the best characterized mTORC1 substrates, is sufficient to render TOP
and TOP-like mRNA translation resistant to Torin 1. The 4E-BPs inhibit
translation initiation by interfering with the interaction between the
cap-binding protein eIF4E and eIF4G1. Loss of this interaction diminishes the
capacity of eIF4E to bind TOP and TOP-like mRNAs much more than other mRNAs,
explaining why mTOR inhibition selectively suppresses their translation. Our
results clarify the translational program controlled by mTORC1 and identify
4E-BPs and eIF4G1 as its master effectors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11083 
PMCID: PMC3347774
PMID: 22552098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 2012 May 2;485(7396):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11004.

A perovskitic lower mantle inferred from high-pressure, high-temperature sound
velocity data.

Murakami M(1), Ohishi Y, Hirao N, Hirose K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Materials Science, Graduate School of
Science, Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan.
motohiko@m.tohoku.ac.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):51-2.

The determination of the chemical composition of Earth's lower mantle is a
long-standing challenge in earth science. Accurate knowledge of sound velocities 
in the lower-mantle minerals under relevant high-pressure, high-temperature
conditions is essential in constraining the mineralogy and chemical composition
using seismological observations, but previous acoustic measurements were limited
to a range of low pressures and temperatures. Here we determine the shear-wave
velocities for silicate perovskite and ferropericlase under the pressure and
temperature conditions of the deep lower mantle using Brillouin scattering
spectroscopy. The mineralogical model that provides the best fit to a global
seismic velocity profile indicates that perovskite constitutes more than 93 per
cent by volume of the lower mantle, which is a much higher proportion than that
predicted by the conventional peridotitic mantle model. It suggests that the
lower mantle is enriched in silicon relative to the upper mantle, which is
consistent with the chondritic Earth model. Such chemical stratification implies 
layered-mantle convection with limited mass transport between the upper and the
lower mantle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11004 
PMID: 22552097 


617. Nature. 2012 May 2;485(7396):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature11084.

Liquid-crystal-mediated self-assembly at nanodroplet interfaces.

Moreno-Razo JA(1), Sambriski EJ, Abbott NL, Hernández-Ortiz JP, de Pablo JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Física, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa,
Apartado Postal 55-534, México 09340, Distrito Federal, México.

Technological applications of liquid crystals have generally relied on control of
molecular orientation at a surface or an interface. Such control has been
achieved through topography, chemistry and the adsorption of monolayers or
surfactants. The role of the substrate or interface has been to impart order over
visible length scales and to confine the liquid crystal in a device. Here, we
report results from a computational study of a liquid-crystal-based system in
which the opposite is true: the liquid crystal is used to impart order on the
interfacial arrangement of a surfactant. Recent experiments on macroscopic
interfaces have hinted that an interfacial coupling between bulk liquid crystal
and surfactant can lead to a two-dimensional phase separation of the surfactant
at the interface, but have not had the resolution to measure the structure of the
resulting phases. To enhance that coupling, we consider the limit of
nanodroplets, the interfaces of which are decorated with surfactant molecules
that promote local perpendicular orientation of mesogens within the droplet. In
the absence of surfactant, mesogens at the interface are all parallel to that
interface. As the droplet is cooled, the mesogens undergo a transition from a
disordered (isotropic) to an ordered (nematic or smectic) liquid-crystal phase.
As this happens, mesogens within the droplet cause a transition of the surfactant
at the interface, which forms new ordered nanophases with morphologies dependent 
on surfactant concentration. Such nanophases are reminiscent of those encountered
in block copolymers, and include circular, striped and worm-like patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11084 
PMID: 22552096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 2012 Apr 29;486(7402):266-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11114.

The deubiquitinase USP9X suppresses pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Pérez-Mancera PA(1), Rust AG, van der Weyden L, Kristiansen G, Li A, Sarver AL,
Silverstein KA, Grützmann R, Aust D, Rümmele P, Knösel T, Herd C, Stemple DL,
Kettleborough R, Brosnan JA, Li A, Morgan R, Knight S, Yu J, Stegeman S, Collier 
LS, ten Hoeve JJ, de Ridder J, Klein AP, Goggins M, Hruban RH, Chang DK, Biankin 
AV, Grimmond SM; Australian Pancreatic Cancer Genome Initiative, Wessels LF, Wood
SA, Iacobuzio-Donahue CA, Pilarsky C, Largaespada DA, Adams DJ, Tuveson DA.

Collaborators: Biankin AV, Johns AL, Mawson A, Chang DK, Brancato MA, Rowe SJ,
Simpson SL, Martyn-Smith M, Chantrill LA, Chin VT, Chou A, Cowley MJ, Humphris
JL, Jones MD, Mead R, Nagrial AM, Pajic M, Pettit J, Pinese M, Rooman I, Wu J,
Daly RJ, Musgrove EA, Sutherland RL, Grimmond SM, Waddell N, Kassahn KS, Miller
DK, Wilson PJ, Patch AM, Song S, Harliwong I, Idrisoglu S, Nourse C, Nourbakhsh
E, Manning S, Wani S, Gongora M, Anderson M, Holmes O, Leonard C, Taylor D, Wood 
S, Xu C, Nones K, Fink J, Christ A, Bruxner T, Cloonan N, Newell F, Pearson JV,
Samra JS, Gill AJ, Pavlakis N, Guminski A, Toon C, Blankin AV, Asghari R, Merrett
ND, Chang DK, Pavey DA, Das A, Cosman PH, Ismail K, O'Connor C, Lam VW, McLeod D,
Pleass HC, James V, Kench JG, Cooper CL, Joseph D, Sandroussi C, Crawford L,
Texler M, Forrest C, Laycock A, Epari KP, Ballal M, Fletcher DR, Mukhedkar S,
Spry NA, DeBoer B, Chai M, Feeney K, Zeps N, Beilin M, Nguyen NQ, Ruszkiewicz AR,
Worthley C, Tan CP, Debrencini T, Chen J, Brooke-Smith ME, Papangelis V, Tang H, 
Barbour AP, Clouston AD, Martin P, O'Rourke TJ, Chiang A, Fawcet JW, Slater K,
Yeung S, Hatzifotis M, Hodgkinson P, Christophi C, Nikfarjam M, Eshleman JR,
Hruban RH, Maitra A, Iacobuzio-Donahue CA, Schulick RD, Wolfgang CL, Morgan RA,
Lawlor RT, Beghelli S, Corbo V, Scardoni M, Bassi C, Tempero MA, Scarlett CJ,
Kaplan W, Scarpa A.

Author information: 
(1)Li Ka Shing Centre, Cambridge Research Institute, Cancer Research UK,
Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Feb 21;494(7437):390. Scarlett, Christopher J [added]; Kaplan,
Warren [added]; Scarpa, Aldo [added], Das, Amithabad [corrected to Das,
Amitabha].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Jul;9(7):368.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Jun;9(6):302.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) remains a lethal malignancy despite much
progress concerning its molecular characterization. PDA tumours harbour four
signature somatic mutations in addition to numerous lower frequency genetic
events of uncertain significance. Here we use Sleeping Beauty (SB)
transposon-mediated insertional mutagenesis in a mouse model of pancreatic ductal
preneoplasia to identify genes that cooperate with oncogenic Kras(G12D) to
accelerate tumorigenesis and promote progression. Our screen revealed new
candidate genes for PDA and confirmed the importance of many genes and pathways
previously implicated in human PDA. The most commonly mutated gene was the
X-linked deubiquitinase Usp9x, which was inactivated in over 50% of the tumours. 
Although previous work had attributed a pro-survival role to USP9X in human
neoplasia, we found instead that loss of Usp9x enhances transformation and
protects pancreatic cancer cells from anoikis. Clinically, low USP9X protein and 
messenger RNA expression in PDA correlates with poor survival after surgery, and 
USP9X levels are inversely associated with metastatic burden in advanced disease.
Furthermore, chromatin modulation with trichostatin A or 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine
elevates USP9X expression in human PDA cell lines, indicating a clinical approach
for certain patients. The conditional deletion of Usp9x cooperated with
Kras(G12D) to accelerate pancreatic tumorigenesis in mice, validating their
genetic interaction. We propose that USP9X is a major tumour suppressor gene with
prognostic and therapeutic relevance in PDA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11114 
PMCID: PMC3376394
PMID: 22699621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Nature. 2012 Apr 29;486(7402):256-60. doi: 10.1038/nature11015.

Autistic-like behaviours and hyperactivity in mice lacking ProSAP1/Shank2.

Schmeisser MJ(1), Ey E, Wegener S, Bockmann J, Stempel AV, Kuebler A, Janssen AL,
Udvardi PT, Shiban E, Spilker C, Balschun D, Skryabin BV, Dieck St, Smalla KH,
Montag D, Leblond CS, Faure P, Torquet N, Le Sourd AM, Toro R, Grabrucker AM,
Shoichet SA, Schmitz D, Kreutz MR, Bourgeron T, Gundelfinger ED, Boeckers TM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Anatomy and Cell Biology, Ulm University, 89081 Ulm, Germany.

Autism spectrum disorders comprise a range of neurodevelopmental disorders
characterized by deficits in social interaction and communication, and by
repetitive behaviour. Mutations in synaptic proteins such as neuroligins,
neurexins, GKAPs/SAPAPs and ProSAPs/Shanks were identified in patients with
autism spectrum disorder, but the causative mechanisms remain largely unknown.
ProSAPs/Shanks build large homo- and heteromeric protein complexes at excitatory 
synapses and organize the complex protein machinery of the postsynaptic density
in a laminar fashion. Here we demonstrate that genetic deletion of ProSAP1/Shank2
results in an early, brain-region-specific upregulation of ionotropic glutamate
receptors at the synapse and increased levels of ProSAP2/Shank3. Moreover,
ProSAP1/Shank2(-/-) mutants exhibit fewer dendritic spines and show reduced basal
synaptic transmission, a reduced frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic
currents and enhanced N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory currents 
at the physiological level. Mutants are extremely hyperactive and display
profound autistic-like behavioural alterations including repetitive grooming as
well as abnormalities in vocal and social behaviours. By comparing the data on
ProSAP1/Shank2(-/-) mutants with ProSAP2/Shank3αβ(-/-) mice, we show that
different abnormalities in synaptic glutamate receptor expression can cause
alterations in social interactions and communication. Accordingly, we propose
that appropriate therapies for autism spectrum disorders are to be carefully
matched to the underlying synaptopathic phenotype.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11015 
PMID: 22699619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 2012 Apr 29;485(7399):517-21. doi: 10.1038/nature11007.

Glycolytic oligodendrocytes maintain myelin and long-term axonal integrity.

Fünfschilling U(1), Supplie LM, Mahad D, Boretius S, Saab AS, Edgar J, Brinkmann 
BG, Kassmann CM, Tzvetanova ID, Möbius W, Diaz F, Meijer D, Suter U, Hamprecht B,
Sereda MW, Moraes CT, Frahm J, Goebbels S, Nave KA.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine, Department of Neurogenetics,
Hermann-Rein-Strasse 3, D-37075 Göttingen, Germany.

Oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming glial cells of the central nervous system,
maintain long-term axonal integrity. However, the underlying support mechanisms
are not understood. Here we identify a metabolic component of axon-glia
interactions by generating conditional Cox10 (protoheme IX farnesyltransferase)
mutant mice, in which oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells fail to assemble stable 
mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX, also known as mitochondrial complex IV).
In the peripheral nervous system, Cox10 conditional mutants exhibit severe
neuropathy with dysmyelination, abnormal Remak bundles, muscle atrophy and
paralysis. Notably, perturbing mitochondrial respiration did not cause glial cell
death. In the adult central nervous system, we found no signs of demyelination,
axonal degeneration or secondary inflammation. Unlike cultured oligodendrocytes, 
which are sensitive to COX inhibitors, post-myelination oligodendrocytes survive 
well in the absence of COX activity. More importantly, by in vivo magnetic
resonance spectroscopy, brain lactate concentrations in mutants were increased
compared with controls, but were detectable only in mice exposed to volatile
anaesthetics. This indicates that aerobic glycolysis products derived from
oligodendrocytes are rapidly metabolized within white matter tracts. Because
myelinated axons can use lactate when energy-deprived, our findings suggest a
model in which axon-glia metabolic coupling serves a physiological function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11007 
PMCID: PMC3613737
PMID: 22622581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Nature. 2012 Apr 29;485(7398):386-90. doi: 10.1038/nature11070.

RNF12 initiates X-chromosome inactivation by targeting REX1 for degradation.

Gontan C(1), Achame EM, Demmers J, Barakat TS, Rentmeester E, van IJcken W,
Grootegoed JA, Gribnau J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproduction and Development, Erasmus MC, University Medical
Center, Dr Molewaterplein 50, 3015 GE Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Evolution of the mammalian sex chromosomes has resulted in a heterologous X and Y
pair, where the Y chromosome has lost most of its genes. Hence, there is a need
for X-linked gene dosage compensation between XY males and XX females. In
placental mammals, this is achieved by random inactivation of one X chromosome in
all female somatic cells. Upregulation of Xist transcription on the future
inactive X chromosome acts against Tsix antisense transcription, and spreading of
Xist RNA in cis triggers epigenetic changes leading to X-chromosome inactivation.
Previously, we have shown that the X-encoded E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF12 is
upregulated in differentiating mouse embryonic stem cells and activates Xist
transcription and X-chromosome inactivation. Here we identify the pluripotency
factor REX1 as a key target of RNF12 in the mechanism of X-chromosome
inactivation. RNF12 causes ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of REX1,
and Rnf12 knockout embryonic stem cells show an increased level of REX1. Using
chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing, REX1 binding sites were detected in
Xist and Tsix regulatory regions. Overexpression of REX1 in female embryonic stem
cells was found to inhibit Xist transcription and X-chromosome inactivation,
whereas male Rex1(+/-) embryonic stem cells showed ectopic X-chromosome
inactivation. From this, we propose that RNF12 causes REX1 breakdown through
dose-dependent catalysis, thereby representing an important pathway to initiate
X-chromosome inactivation. Rex1 and Xist are present only in placental mammals,
which points to co-evolution of these two genes and X-chromosome inactivation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11070 
PMID: 22596162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nature. 2012 Apr 29;485(7397):201-6. doi: 10.1038/nature11112.

Topology of the human and mouse m6A RNA methylomes revealed by m6A-seq.

Dominissini D(1), Moshitch-Moshkovitz S, Schwartz S, Salmon-Divon M, Ungar L,
Osenberg S, Cesarkas K, Jacob-Hirsch J, Amariglio N, Kupiec M, Sorek R, Rechavi
G.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Center, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer 52621,
Israel.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Dec 7;111(12):1491-3.

An extensive repertoire of modifications is known to underlie the versatile
coding, structural and catalytic functions of RNA, but it remains largely
uncharted territory. Although biochemical studies indicate that
N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is the most prevalent internal modification in
messenger RNA, an in-depth study of its distribution and functions has been
impeded by a lack of robust analytical methods. Here we present the human and
mouse m(6)A modification landscape in a transcriptome-wide manner, using a novel 
approach, m(6)A-seq, based on antibody-mediated capture and massively parallel
sequencing. We identify over 12,000 m(6)A sites characterized by a typical
consensus in the transcripts of more than 7,000 human genes. Sites preferentially
appear in two distinct landmarks--around stop codons and within long internal
exons--and are highly conserved between human and mouse. Although most sites are 
well preserved across normal and cancerous tissues and in response to various
stimuli, a subset of stimulus-dependent, dynamically modulated sites is
identified. Silencing the m(6)A methyltransferase significantly affects gene
expression and alternative splicing patterns, resulting in modulation of the p53 
(also known as TP53) signalling pathway and apoptosis. Our findings therefore
suggest that RNA decoration by m(6)A has a fundamental role in regulation of gene
expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11112 
PMID: 22575960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Nature. 2012 Apr 29;485(7397):195-200. doi: 10.1038/nature11019.

ZNRF3 promotes Wnt receptor turnover in an R-spondin-sensitive manner.

Hao HX(1), Xie Y, Zhang Y, Charlat O, Oster E, Avello M, Lei H, Mickanin C, Liu
D, Ruffner H, Mao X, Ma Q, Zamponi R, Bouwmeester T, Finan PM, Kirschner MW,
Porter JA, Serluca FC, Cong F.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, 250 Massachusetts Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2012 Oct 9;22(19):R849-51.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Jun;13(6):342.
    Nat Biotechnol. 2012 Sep;30(9):835-6.

R-spondin proteins strongly potentiate Wnt signalling and function as stem-cell
growth factors. Despite the biological and therapeutic significance, the
molecular mechanism of R-spondin action remains unclear. Here we show that the
cell-surface transmembrane E3 ubiquitin ligase zinc and ring finger 3 (ZNRF3) and
its homologue ring finger 43 (RNF43) are negative feedback regulators of Wnt
signalling. ZNRF3 is associated with the Wnt receptor complex, and inhibits Wnt
signalling by promoting the turnover of frizzled and LRP6. Inhibition of ZNRF3
enhances Wnt/β-catenin signalling and disrupts Wnt/planar cell polarity
signalling in vivo. Notably, R-spondin mimics ZNRF3 inhibition by increasing the 
membrane level of Wnt receptors. Mechanistically, R-spondin interacts with the
extracellular domain of ZNRF3 and induces the association between ZNRF3 and LGR4,
which results in membrane clearance of ZNRF3. These data suggest that R-spondin
enhances Wnt signalling by inhibiting ZNRF3. Our study provides new mechanistic
insights into the regulation of Wnt receptor turnover, and reveals ZNRF3 as a
tractable target for therapeutic exploration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11019 
PMID: 22575959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):514-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10957.

Pathogen-induced human TH17 cells produce IFN-γ or IL-10 and are regulated by
IL-1β.

Zielinski CE(1), Mele F, Aschenbrenner D, Jarrossay D, Ronchi F, Gattorno M,
Monticelli S, Lanzavecchia A, Sallusto F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Biomedicine, Via Vincenzo Vela 6, 6500 Bellinzona,
Switzerland. christina.zielinski@charite.de

IL-17-producing CD4+ T helper cells (TH17) have been extensively investigated in 
mouse models of autoimmunity. However, the requirements for differentiation and
the properties of pathogen-induced human TH17 cells remain poorly defined. Using 
an approach that combines the in vitro priming of naive T cells with the ex vivo 
analysis of memory T cells, we describe here two types of human TH17 cells with
distinct effector function and differentiation requirements. Candida
albicans-specific TH17 cells produced IL-17 and IFN-γ, but no IL-10, whereas
Staphylococcus aureus-specific TH17 cells produced IL-17 and could produce IL-10 
upon restimulation. IL-6, IL-23 and IL-1β contributed to TH17 differentiation
induced by both pathogens, but IL-1β was essential in C. albicans-induced TH17
differentiation to counteract the inhibitory activity of IL-12 and to prime
IL-17/IFN-γ double-producing cells. In addition, IL-1β inhibited IL-10 production
in differentiating and in memory TH17 cells, whereas blockade of IL-1β in vivo
led to increased IL-10 production by memory TH17 cells. We also show that, after 
restimulation, TH17 cells transiently downregulated IL-17 production through a
mechanism that involved IL-2-induced activation of STAT5 and decreased expression
of ROR-γt. Taken together these findings demonstrate that by eliciting different 
cytokines C. albicans and S. aureus prime TH17 cells that produce either IFN-γ or
IL-10, and identify IL-1β and IL-2 as pro- and anti-inflammatory regulators of
TH17 cells both at priming and in the effector phase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10957 
PMID: 22466287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):506-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10971.

Sexual selection enables long-term coexistence despite ecological equivalence.

M'Gonigle LK(1), Mazzucco R, Otto SP, Dieckmann U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia, 6270 University
Boulevard, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. mgonigle@zoology.ubc.ca

Empirical data indicate that sexual preferences are critical for maintaining
species boundaries, yet theoretical work has suggested that, on their own, they
can have only a minimal role in maintaining biodiversity. This is because
long-term coexistence within overlapping ranges is thought to be unlikely in the 
absence of ecological differentiation. Here we challenge this widely held view by
generalizing a standard model of sexual selection to include two ubiquitous
features of populations with sexual selection: spatial variation in local
carrying capacity, and mate-search costs in females. We show that, when these two
features are combined, sexual preferences can single-handedly maintain
coexistence, even when spatial variation in local carrying capacity is so slight 
that it might go unnoticed empirically. This theoretical study demonstrates that 
sexual selection alone can promote the long-term coexistence of ecologically
equivalent species with overlapping ranges, and it thus provides a novel
explanation for the maintenance of species diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10971 
PMID: 22466286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11042.

Infection regulates pro-resolving mediators that lower antibiotic requirements.

Chiang N(1), Fredman G, Bäckhed F, Oh SF, Vickery T, Schmidt BA, Serhan CN.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Therapeutics and Reperfusion Injury, Department of
Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Jun;11(6):441.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Jun;12(6):398-9.

Underlying mechanisms for how bacterial infections contribute to active
resolution of acute inflammation are unknown. Here, we performed exudate
leukocyte trafficking and mediator-metabololipidomics of murine peritoneal
Escherichia coli infections with temporal identification of pro-inflammatory
(prostaglandins and leukotrienes) and specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs).
In self-resolving E. coli exudates (10(5) colony forming units, c.f.u.), the
dominant SPMs identified were resolvin (Rv) D5 and protectin D1 (PD1), which at
12 h were at significantly greater levels than in exudates from higher titre E.
coli (10(7) c.f.u.)-challenged mice. Germ-free mice had endogenous RvD1 and PD1
levels higher than in conventional mice. RvD1 and RvD5 (nanograms per mouse) each
reduced bacterial titres in blood and exudates, E. coli-induced hypothermia and
increased survival, demonstrating the first actions of RvD5. With human
polymorphonuclear neutrophils and macrophages, RvD1, RvD5 and PD1 each directly
enhanced phagocytosis of E. coli, and RvD5 counter-regulated a panel of
pro-inflammatory genes, including NF-κB and TNF-α. RvD5 activated the RvD1
receptor, GPR32, to enhance phagocytosis. With self-limited E. coli infections,
RvD1 and the antibiotic ciprofloxacin accelerated resolution, each shortening
resolution intervals (R(i)). Host-directed RvD1 actions enhanced ciprofloxacin's 
therapeutic actions. In 10(7) c.f.u. E. coli infections, SPMs (RvD1, RvD5, PD1)
together with ciprofloxacin also heightened host antimicrobial responses. In skin
infections, SPMs enhanced vancomycin clearance of Staphylococcus aureus. These
results demonstrate that specific SPMs are temporally and differentially
regulated during infections and that they are anti-phlogistic, enhance
containment and lower antibiotic requirements for bacterial clearance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11042 
PMCID: PMC3340015
PMID: 22538616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):510-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11012.

NLRP10 is a NOD-like receptor essential to initiate adaptive immunity by
dendritic cells.

Eisenbarth SC(1), Williams A, Colegio OR, Meng H, Strowig T, Rongvaux A,
Henao-Mejia J, Thaiss CA, Joly S, Gonzalez DG, Xu L, Zenewicz LA, Haberman AM,
Elinav E, Kleinstein SH, Sutterwala FS, Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 Feb 25;530(7591):504.

NLRs (nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich-repeat-containing receptors;
NOD-like receptors) are a class of pattern recognition receptor (PRR) that
respond to host perturbation from either infectious agents or cellular stress.
The function of most NLR family members has not been characterized and their role
in instructing adaptive immune responses remains unclear. NLRP10 (also known as
PYNOD, NALP10, PAN5 and NOD8) is the only NLR lacking the putative ligand-binding
leucine-rich-repeat domain, and has been postulated to be a negative regulator of
other NLR members, including NLRP3 (refs 4-6). We did not find evidence that
NLRP10 functions through an inflammasome to regulate caspase-1 activity nor that 
it regulates other inflammasomes. Instead, Nlrp10(-/-) mice had a profound defect
in helper T-cell-driven immune responses to a diverse array of adjuvants,
including lipopolysaccharide, aluminium hydroxide and complete Freund's adjuvant.
Adaptive immunity was impaired in the absence of NLRP10 because of a dendritic
cell (DC) intrinsic defect in emigration from inflamed tissues, whereas
upregulation of DC costimulatory molecules and chemotaxis to CCR7-dependent and
-independent ligands remained intact. The loss of antigen transport to the
draining lymph nodes by a subset of migratory DCs resulted in an almost absolute 
loss in naive CD4(+) T-cell priming, highlighting the critical link between
diverse innate immune stimulation, NLRP10 activity and the immune function of
mature DCs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11012 
PMCID: PMC3340615
PMID: 22538615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):502-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10968.

Antarctic ice-sheet loss driven by basal melting of ice shelves.

Pritchard HD(1), Ligtenberg SR, Fricker HA, Vaughan DG, van den Broeke MR, Padman
L.

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, Natural Environment Research Council, Madingley
Road, Cambridge CB3 0ET, UK. h.pritchard@bas.ac.uk

Accurate prediction of global sea-level rise requires that we understand the
cause of recent, widespread and intensifying glacier acceleration along Antarctic
ice-sheet coastal margins. Atmospheric and oceanic forcing have the potential to 
reduce the thickness and extent of floating ice shelves, potentially limiting
their ability to buttress the flow of grounded tributary glaciers. Indeed, recent
ice-shelf collapse led to retreat and acceleration of several glaciers on the
Antarctic Peninsula. But the extent and magnitude of ice-shelf thickness change, 
the underlying causes of such change, and its link to glacier flow rate are so
poorly understood that its future impact on the ice sheets cannot yet be
predicted. Here we use satellite laser altimetry and modelling of the surface
firn layer to reveal the circum-Antarctic pattern of ice-shelf thinning through
increased basal melt. We deduce that this increased melt is the primary control
of Antarctic ice-sheet loss, through a reduction in buttressing of the adjacent
ice sheet leading to accelerated glacier flow. The highest thinning rates occur
where warm water at depth can access thick ice shelves via submarine troughs
crossing the continental shelf. Wind forcing could explain the dominant patterns 
of both basal melting and the surface melting and collapse of Antarctic ice
shelves, through ocean upwelling in the Amundsen and Bellingshausen seas, and
atmospheric warming on the Antarctic Peninsula. This implies that climate forcing
through changing winds influences Antarctic ice-sheet mass balance, and hence
global sea level, on annual to decadal timescales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10968 
PMID: 22538614 


629. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):498-501. doi: 10.1038/nature11021.

Deposition of 1.88-billion-year-old iron formations as a consequence of rapid
crustal growth.

Rasmussen B(1), Fletcher IR, Bekker A, Muhling JR, Gregory CJ, Thorne AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Geology, Curtin University, Kent Street, Bentley,
Western Australia 6102, Australia.

Iron formations are chemical sedimentary rocks comprising layers of iron-rich and
silica-rich minerals whose deposition requires anoxic and iron-rich (ferruginous)
sea water. Their demise after the rise in atmospheric oxygen by 2.32 billion
years (Gyr) ago has been attributed to the removal of dissolved iron through
progressive oxidation or sulphidation of the deep ocean. Therefore, a sudden
return of voluminous iron formations nearly 500 million years later poses an
apparent conundrum. Most late Palaeoproterozoic iron formations are about
1.88 Gyr old and occur in the Superior region of North America. Major iron
formations are also preserved in Australia, but these were apparently deposited
after the transition to a sulphidic ocean at 1.84 Gyr ago that should have
terminated iron formation deposition, implying that they reflect local marine
conditions. Here we date zircons in tuff layers to show that iron formations in
the Frere Formation of Western Australia are about 1.88 Gyr old, indicating that 
the deposition of iron formations from two disparate cratons was coeval and
probably reflects global ocean chemistry. The sudden reappearance of major iron
formations at 1.88 Gyr ago--contemporaneous with peaks in global mafic-ultramafic
magmatism, juvenile continental and oceanic crust formation, mantle depletion and
volcanogenic massive sulphide formation--suggests deposition of iron formations
as a consequence of major mantle activity and rapid crustal growth. Our findings 
support the idea that enhanced submarine volcanism and hydrothermal activity
linked to a peak in mantle melting released large volumes of ferrous iron and
other reductants that overwhelmed the sulphate and oxygen reservoirs of the
ocean, decoupling atmospheric and seawater redox states, and causing the return
of widespread ferruginous conditions. Iron formations formed on clastic-starved
coastal shelves where dissolved iron upwelled and mixed with oxygenated surface
water. The disappearance of iron formations after this event may reflect waning
mafic-ultramafic magmatism and a diminished flux of hydrothermal iron relative to
seawater oxidants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11021 
PMID: 22538613 


630. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):493-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11072.

Thermal and electrical transport across a magnetic quantum critical point.

Pfau H(1), Hartmann S, Stockert U, Sun P, Lausberg S, Brando M, Friedemann S,
Krellner C, Geibel C, Wirth S, Kirchner S, Abrahams E, Si Q, Steglich F.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Nöthnitzer Strasse 40,
01187 Dresden, Germany.

A quantum critical point (QCP) arises when a continuous transition between
competing phases occurs at zero temperature. Collective excitations at magnetic
QCPs give rise to metallic properties that strongly deviate from the expectations
of Landau's Fermi-liquid description, which is the standard theory of electron
correlations in metals. Central to this theory is the notion of quasiparticles,
electronic excitations that possess the quantum numbers of the non-interacting
electrons. Here we report measurements of thermal and electrical transport across
the field-induced magnetic QCP in the heavy-fermion compound YbRh(2)Si(2) (refs
2, 3). We show that the ratio of the thermal to electrical conductivities at the 
zero-temperature limit obeys the Wiedemann-Franz law for magnetic fields above
the critical field at which the QCP is attained. This is also expected for
magnetic fields below the critical field, where weak antiferromagnetic order and 
a Fermi-liquid phase form below 0.07 K (at zero field). At the critical field,
however, the low-temperature electrical conductivity exceeds the thermal
conductivity by about 10 per cent, suggestive of a non-Fermi-liquid ground state.
This apparent violation of the Wiedemann-Franz law provides evidence for an
unconventional type of QCP at which the fundamental concept of Landau
quasiparticles no longer holds. These results imply that Landau quasiparticles
break up, and that the origin of this disintegration is inelastic scattering
associated with electronic quantum critical fluctuations--these insights could be
relevant to understanding other deviations from Fermi-liquid behaviour frequently
observed in various classes of correlated materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11072 
PMID: 22538612 


631. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature10981.

Engineered two-dimensional Ising interactions in a trapped-ion quantum simulator 
with hundreds of spins.

Britton JW(1), Sawyer BC, Keith AC, Wang CC, Freericks JK, Uys H, Biercuk MJ,
Bollinger JJ.

Author information: 
(1)US National Institute of Standards and Technology, Time and Frequency
Division, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA. joe.britton@gmail.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):461-2.

The presence of long-range quantum spin correlations underlies a variety of
physical phenomena in condensed-matter systems, potentially including
high-temperature superconductivity. However, many properties of exotic, strongly 
correlated spin systems, such as spin liquids, have proved difficult to study, in
part because calculations involving N-body entanglement become intractable for as
few as N ≈ 30 particles. Feynman predicted that a quantum simulator--a
special-purpose 'analogue' processor built using quantum bits (qubits)--would be 
inherently suited to solving such problems. In the context of quantum magnetism, 
a number of experiments have demonstrated the feasibility of this approach, but
simulations allowing controlled, tunable interactions between spins localized on 
two- or three-dimensional lattices of more than a few tens of qubits have yet to 
be demonstrated, in part because of the technical challenge of realizing
large-scale qubit arrays. Here we demonstrate a variable-range Ising-type
spin-spin interaction, J(i,j), on a naturally occurring, two-dimensional
triangular crystal lattice of hundreds of spin-half particles (beryllium ions
stored in a Penning trap). This is a computationally relevant scale more than an 
order of magnitude larger than previous experiments. We show that a
spin-dependent optical dipole force can produce an antiferromagnetic interaction 
J(i,j) proportional variant d(-a)(i,j), where 0 ≤ a ≤ 3 and d(i,j) is the
distance between spin pairs. These power laws correspond physically to
infinite-range (a = 0), Coulomb-like (a = 1), monopole-dipole (a = 2) and
dipole-dipole (a = 3) couplings. Experimentally, we demonstrate excellent
agreement with a theory for 0.05 ≲ a ≲ 1.4. This demonstration, coupled with the 
high spin count, excellent quantum control and low technical complexity of the
Penning trap, brings within reach the simulation of otherwise computationally
intractable problems in quantum magnetism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10981 
PMID: 22538611 


632. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):485-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10972.

Systematic variation of the stellar initial mass function in early-type galaxies.

Cappellari M(1), McDermid RM, Alatalo K, Blitz L, Bois M, Bournaud F, Bureau M,
Crocker AF, Davies RL, Davis TA, de Zeeuw PT, Duc PA, Emsellem E, Khochfar S,
Krajnović D, Kuntschner H, Lablanche PY, Morganti R, Naab T, Oosterloo T, Sarzi
M, Scott N, Serra P, Weijmans AM, Young LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RH, UK.
cappellari@astro.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):462-3.

Much of our knowledge of galaxies comes from analysing the radiation emitted by
their stars, which depends on the present number of each type of star in the
galaxy. The present number depends on the stellar initial mass function (IMF),
which describes the distribution of stellar masses when the population formed,
and knowledge of it is critical to almost every aspect of galaxy evolution. More 
than 50 years after the first IMF determination, no consensus has emerged on
whether it is universal among different types of galaxies. Previous studies
indicated that the IMF and the dark matter fraction in galaxy centres cannot both
be universal, but they could not convincingly discriminate between the two
possibilities. Only recently were indications found that massive elliptical
galaxies may not have the same IMF as the Milky Way. Here we report a study of
the two-dimensional stellar kinematics for the large representative ATLAS(3D)
sample of nearby early-type galaxies spanning two orders of magnitude in stellar 
mass, using detailed dynamical models. We find a strong systematic variation in
IMF in early-type galaxies as a function of their stellar mass-to-light ratios,
producing differences of a factor of up to three in galactic stellar mass. This
implies that a galaxy's IMF depends intimately on the galaxy's formation history.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10972 
PMID: 22538610 


633. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):479-84. doi: 10.1038/nature11045.

Clonally dominant cardiomyocytes direct heart morphogenesis.

Gupta V(1), Poss KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):459-60.
    Circ Res. 2013 Feb 15;112(4):583-5.

As vertebrate embryos develop to adulthood, their organs undergo marked changes
in size and tissue architecture. The heart acquires muscle mass and matures
structurally to fulfil increasing circulatory needs, a process that is
incompletely understood. Here we used multicolour clonal analysis to define the
contributions of individual cardiomyocytes as the zebrafish heart undergoes
morphogenesis from a primitive embryonic structure into its complex adult form.
We find that the single-cardiomyocyte-thick wall of the juvenile ventricle forms 
by lateral expansion of several dozen cardiomyocytes into muscle patches of
variable sizes and shapes. As juvenile zebrafish mature into adults, this
structure becomes fully enveloped by a new lineage of cortical muscle. Adult
cortical muscle originates from a small number of cardiomyocytes--an average of
approximately eight per animal--that display clonal dominance reminiscent of stem
cell populations. Cortical cardiomyocytes initially emerge from internal
myofibres that in rare events breach the juvenile ventricular wall, and then
expand over the surface. Our results illuminate the dynamic proliferative
behaviours that generate adult cardiac structure, revealing clonal dominance as a
key mechanism that shapes a vertebrate organ.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11045 
PMCID: PMC3340018
PMID: 22538609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):473-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11039.

Multiple dynamic representations in the motor cortex during sensorimotor
learning.

Huber D(1), Gutnisky DA, Peron S, O'Connor DH, Wiegert JS, Tian L, Oertner TG,
Looger LL, Svoboda K.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 19700 Helix
Drive, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.

The mechanisms linking sensation and action during learning are poorly
understood. Layer 2/3 neurons in the motor cortex might participate in
sensorimotor integration and learning; they receive input from sensory cortex and
excite deep layer neurons, which control movement. Here we imaged activity in the
same set of layer 2/3 neurons in the motor cortex over weeks, while mice learned 
to detect objects with their whiskers and report detection with licking.
Spatially intermingled neurons represented sensory (touch) and motor behaviours
(whisker movements and licking). With learning, the population-level
representation of task-related licking strengthened. In trained mice,
population-level representations were redundant and stable, despite dynamism of
single-neuron representations. The activity of a subpopulation of neurons was
consistent with touch driving licking behaviour. Our results suggest that
ensembles of motor cortex neurons couple sensory input to multiple, related motor
programs during learning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11039 
PMCID: PMC4601999
PMID: 22538608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2012 Apr 25;484(7395):465-72. doi: 10.1038/nature11047.

Allergic host defences.

Palm NW(1), Rosenstein RK, Medzhitov R.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Immunobiology, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):458-9.

Allergies are generally thought to be a detrimental outcome of a mistargeted
immune response that evolved to provide immunity to macroparasites. Here we
present arguments to suggest that allergic immunity has an important role in host
defence against noxious environmental substances, including venoms,
haematophagous fluids, environmental xenobiotics and irritants. We argue that
appropriately targeted allergic reactions are beneficial, although they can
become detrimental when excessive. Furthermore, we suggest that allergic
hypersensitivity evolved to elicit anticipatory responses and to promote
avoidance of suboptimal environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11047 
PMCID: PMC3596087
PMID: 22538607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 2012 Apr 19;484(7394):333-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10986.

A novel ChREBP isoform in adipose tissue regulates systemic glucose metabolism.

Herman MA(1), Peroni OD, Villoria J, Schön MR, Abumrad NA, Blüher M, Klein S,
Kahn BB.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Jun 6;15(6):795-7.
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2014 Dec;7(6):965-6.

The prevalence of obesity and type 2 diabetes is increasing worldwide and
threatens to shorten lifespan. Impaired insulin action in peripheral tissues is a
major pathogenic factor. Insulin stimulates glucose uptake in adipose tissue
through the GLUT4 (also known as SLC2A4) glucose transporter, and alterations in 
adipose tissue GLUT4 expression or function regulate systemic insulin
sensitivity. Downregulation of human and mouse adipose tissue GLUT4 occurs early 
in diabetes development. Here we report that adipose tissue GLUT4 regulates the
expression of carbohydrate-responsive-element-binding protein (ChREBP; also known
as MLXIPL), a transcriptional regulator of lipogenic and glycolytic genes.
Furthermore, adipose ChREBP is a major determinant of adipose tissue fatty acid
synthesis and systemic insulin sensitivity. We find a new mechanism for glucose
regulation of ChREBP: glucose-mediated activation of the canonical ChREBP isoform
(ChREBP-α) induces expression of a novel, potent isoform (ChREBP-β) that is
transcribed from an alternative promoter. ChREBP-β expression in human adipose
tissue predicts insulin sensitivity, indicating that it may be an effective
target for treating diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10986 
PMCID: PMC3341994
PMID: 22466288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2012 Apr 18;486(7403):346-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10983.

The genomic and transcriptomic architecture of 2,000 breast tumours reveals novel
subgroups.

Curtis C(1), Shah SP, Chin SF, Turashvili G, Rueda OM, Dunning MJ, Speed D, Lynch
AG, Samarajiwa S, Yuan Y, Gräf S, Ha G, Haffari G, Bashashati A, Russell R,
McKinney S; METABRIC Group, Langerød A, Green A, Provenzano E, Wishart G, Pinder 
S, Watson P, Markowetz F, Murphy L, Ellis I, Purushotham A, Børresen-Dale AL,
Brenton JD, Tavaré S, Caldas C, Aparicio S.

Collaborators: Caldas C, Aparicio S, Curtis C, Shah SP, Caldas C, Aparicio S,
Brenton JD, Ellis I, Huntsman D, Pinder S, Purushotham A, Murphy L, Caldas C,
Aparicio S, Caldas C, Bardwell H, Chin SF, Curtis C, Ding Z, Gräf S, Jones L, Liu
B, Lynch AG, Papatheodorou I, Sammut SJ, Wishart G, Aparicio S, Chia S, Gelmon K,
Huntsman D, McKinney S, Speers C, Turashvili G, Watson P, Ellis I, Blamey R,
Green A, Macmillan D, Rakha E, Purushotham A, Gillett C, Grigoriadis A, Pinder S,
de Rinaldis E, Tutt A, Murphy L, Parisien M, Troup S, Caldas C, Chin SF, Chan D, 
Fielding C, Maia AT, McGuire S, Osborne M, Sayalero SM, Spiteri I, Hadfield J,
Aparicio S, Turashvili G, Bell L, Chow K, Gale N, Huntsman D, Kovalik M, Ng Y,
Prentice L, Caldas C, Tavaré S, Curtis C, Dunning MJ, Gräf S, Lynch AG, Rueda OM,
Russell R, Samarajiwa S, Speed D, Markowetz F, Yuan Y, Brenton JD, Aparicio S,
Shah SP, Bashashati A, Ha G, Haffari G, McKinney S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2
2XZ, UK.

Comment in
    J R Coll Physicians Edinb. 2013;43(1):36.
    Cancer Discov. 2012 Jun;2(6):OF6.
    Breast Cancer Res. 2012;14(5):323.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):328-9.

The elucidation of breast cancer subgroups and their molecular drivers requires
integrated views of the genome and transcriptome from representative numbers of
patients. We present an integrated analysis of copy number and gene expression in
a discovery and validation set of 997 and 995 primary breast tumours,
respectively, with long-term clinical follow-up. Inherited variants (copy number 
variants and single nucleotide polymorphisms) and acquired somatic copy number
aberrations (CNAs) were associated with expression in ~40% of genes, with the
landscape dominated by cis- and trans-acting CNAs. By delineating expression
outlier genes driven in cis by CNAs, we identified putative cancer genes,
including deletions in PPP2R2A, MTAP and MAP2K4. Unsupervised analysis of paired 
DNA–RNA profiles revealed novel subgroups with distinct clinical outcomes, which 
reproduced in the validation cohort. These include a high-risk,
oestrogen-receptor-positive 11q13/14 cis-acting subgroup and a favourable
prognosis subgroup devoid of CNAs. Trans-acting aberration hotspots were found to
modulate subgroup-specific gene networks, including a TCR deletion-mediated
adaptive immune response in the ‘CNA-devoid’ subgroup and a basal-specific
chromosome 5 deletion-associated mitotic network. Our results provide a novel
molecular stratification of the breast cancer population, derived from the impact
of somatic CNAs on the transcriptome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10983 
PMCID: PMC3440846
PMID: 22522925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2012 Apr 18;484(7394):363-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10969.

Formation of the 'Great Unconformity' as a trigger for the Cambrian explosion.

Peters SE(1), Gaines RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geoscience, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706,
USA. peters@geology.wisc.edu

The transition between the Proterozoic and Phanerozoic eons, beginning
542 million years (Myr) ago, is distinguished by the diversification of
multicellular animals and by their acquisition of mineralized skeletons during
the Cambrian period. Considerable progress has been made in documenting and more 
precisely correlating biotic patterns in the Neoproterozoic-Cambrian fossil
record with geochemical and physical environmental perturbations, but the
mechanisms responsible for those perturbations remain uncertain. Here we use new 
stratigraphic and geochemical data to show that early Palaeozoic marine sediments
deposited approximately 540-480 Myr ago record both an expansion in the area of
shallow epicontinental seas and anomalous patterns of chemical sedimentation that
are indicative of increased oceanic alkalinity and enhanced chemical weathering
of continental crust. These geochemical conditions were caused by a protracted
period of widespread continental denudation during the Neoproterozoic followed by
extensive physical reworking of soil, regolith and basement rock during the first
continental-scale marine transgression of the Phanerozoic. The resultant globally
occurring stratigraphic surface, which in most regions separates continental
crystalline basement rock from much younger Cambrian shallow marine sedimentary
deposits, is known as the Great Unconformity. Although Darwin and others have
interpreted this widespread hiatus in sedimentation on the continents as a
failure of the geologic record, this palaeogeomorphic surface represents a unique
physical environmental boundary condition that affected seawater chemistry during
a time of profound expansion of shallow marine habitats. Thus, the formation of
the Great Unconformity may have been an environmental trigger for the evolution
of biomineralization and the 'Cambrian explosion' of ecologic and taxonomic
diversity following the Neoproterozoic emergence of animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10969 
PMID: 22517163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 2012 Apr 18;484(7394):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10930.

Coherent quantum phase slip.

Astafiev OV(1), Ioffe LB, Kafanov S, Pashkin YA, Arutyunov KY, Shahar D, Cohen O,
Tsai JS.

Author information: 
(1)NEC Green Innovation Research Laboratories, 34 Miyukigaoka, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 
305-8501, Japan. astf@zb.jp.nec.com

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 19;484(7394):324-5.

A hundred years after the discovery of superconductivity, one fundamental
prediction of the theory, coherent quantum phase slip (CQPS), has not been
observed. CQPS is a phenomenon exactly dual to the Josephson effect; whereas the 
latter is a coherent transfer of charges between superconducting leads, the
former is a coherent transfer of vortices or fluxes across a superconducting
wire. In contrast to previously reported observations of incoherent phase slip,
CQPS has been only a subject of theoretical study. Its experimental demonstration
is made difficult by quasiparticle dissipation due to gapless excitations in
nanowires or in vortex cores. This difficulty might be overcome by using certain 
strongly disordered superconductors near the superconductor-insulator transition.
Here we report direct observation of CQPS in a narrow segment of a
superconducting loop made of strongly disordered indium oxide; the effect is made
manifest through the superposition of quantum states with different numbers of
flux quanta. As with the Josephson effect, our observation should lead to new
applications in superconducting electronics and quantum metrology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10930 
PMID: 22517162 


640. Nature. 2012 Apr 18;484(7394):351-4. doi: 10.1038/nature11068.

An absence of neutrinos associated with cosmic-ray acceleration in γ-ray bursts.

IceCube Collaboration.

Collaborators: Abbasi R, Abdou Y, Abu-Zayyad T, Ackermann M, Adams J, Aguilar J, 
Ahlers M, Altmann D, Andeen K, Auffenberg J, Bai X, Baker M, Barwick S, Bay R,
Bazo Alba J, Beattie K, Beatty J, Bechet S, Becker JK, Becker KH, Bell M,
Benabderrahmane M, BenZvi S, Berdermann J, Berghaus P, Berley D, Bernardini E,
Bertrand D, Besson D, Bindig D, Bissok M, Blaufuss E, Blumenthal J, Boersma D,
Bohm C, Bose D, Böser S, Botner O, Brayeur L, Brown A, Buitink S, Caballero-Mora 
K, Carson M, Casier M, Chirkin D, Christy B, Clevermann F, Cohen S, Colnard C,
Cowen D, Cruz Silva A, D'Agostino M, Danninger M, Daughhetee J, Davis J, De
Clercq C, Degner T, Descamps F, Desiati P, de Vries-Uiterweerd G, DeYoung T,
Díaz-Vélez J, Dierckxsens M, Dreyer J, Dumm J, Dunkman M, Eisch J, Ellsworth R,
Engdegård O, Euler S, Evenson P, Fadiran O, Fazely A, Fedynitch A, Feintzeig J,
Feusels T, Filimonov K, Finley C, Fischer-Wasels T, Flis S, Franckowiak A, Franke
R, Gaisser T, Gallagher J, Gerhardt L, Gladstone L, Glüsenkamp T, Goldschmidt A, 
Goodman J, Góra D, Grant D, Griesel T, Gross A, Grullon S, Gurtner M, Ha C, Haj
Ismail A, Hallgren A, Halzen F, Han K, Hanson K, Heereman D, Heinen D, Helbing K,
Hellauer R, Hickford S, Hill G, Hoffman K, Hoffmann B, Homeier A, Hoshina K,
Huelsnitz W, Hülss JP, Hulth P, Hultqvist K, Hussain S, Ishihara A, Jacobi E,
Jacobsen J, Japaridze G, Johansson H, Kappes A, Karg T, Karle A, Kiryluk J,
Kislat F, Klein SR, Köhne JH, Kohnen G, Kolanoski H, Köpke L, Kopper S, Koskinen 
D, Kowalski M, Kowarik T, Krasberg M, Kroll G, Kunnen J, Kurahashi N, Kuwabara T,
Labare M, Laihem K, Landsman H, Larson M, Lauer R, Lünemann J, Madsen J, Marotta 
A, Maruyama R, Mase K, Matis H, Meagher K, Merck M, Mészáros P, Meures T,
Miarecki S, Middell E, Milke N, Miller J, Montaruli T, Morse R, Movit S,
Nahnhauer R, Nam J, Naumann U, Nowicki S, Nygren D, Odrowski S, Olivas A, Olivo
M, O'Murchadha A, Panknin S, Paul L, Pérez de los Heros C, Piegsa A, Pieloth D,
Posselt J, Price P, Przybylski G, Rawlins K, Redl P, Resconi E, Rhode W, Ribordy 
M, Richman M, Riedel B, Rizzo A, Rodrigues J, Rothmaier F, Rott C, Ruhe T,
Rutledge D, Ruzybayev B, Ryckbosch D, Sander HG, Santander M, Sarkar S, Schatto
K, Schmidt T, Schöneberg S, Schönwald A, Schukraft A, Schulte L, Schultes A,
Schulz O, Schunck M, Seckel D, Semburg B, Seo S, Sestayo Y, Seunarine S,
Silvestri A, Smith M, Spiczak G, Spiering C, Stamatikos M, Stanev T, Stezelberger
T, Stokstad R, Stössl A, Strahler E, Ström R, Stüer M, Sullivan G, Taavola H,
Taboada I, Tamburro A, Ter-Antonyan S, Tilav S, Toale P, Toscano S, Tosi D, van
Eijndhoven N, Van Overloop A, van Santen J, Vehring M, Voge M, Walck C,
Waldenmaier T, Wallraff M, Walter M, Wasserman R, Weaver Ch, Wendt C, Westerhoff 
S, Whitehorn N, Wiebe K, Wiebusch C, Williams D, Wischnewski R, Wissing H, Wolf
M, Wood T, Woschnagg K, Xu C, Xu D, Xu X, Yanez J, Yodh G, Yoshida S, Zarzhitsky 
P, Zoll M.

Very energetic astrophysical events are required to accelerate cosmic rays to
above 10(18) electronvolts. GRBs (γ-ray bursts) have been proposed as possible
candidate sources. In the GRB 'fireball' model, cosmic-ray acceleration should be
accompanied by neutrinos produced in the decay of charged pions created in
interactions between the high-energy cosmic-ray protons and γ-rays. Previous
searches for such neutrinos found none, but the constraints were weak because the
sensitivity was at best approximately equal to the predicted flux. Here we report
an upper limit on the flux of energetic neutrinos associated with GRBs that is at
least a factor of 3.7 below the predictions. This implies either that GRBs are
not the only sources of cosmic rays with energies exceeding 10(18) electronvolts 
or that the efficiency of neutrino production is much lower than has been
predicted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11068 
PMID: 22517161 


641. Nature. 2012 Apr 18;484(7394):327-32. doi: 10.1038/nature11032.

Deformation cycles of subduction earthquakes in a viscoelastic Earth.

Wang K(1), Hu Y, He J.

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Geoscience Centre, Natural Resources Canada, Geological Survey of
Canada, Sidney, British Columbia V8L 4B2, Canada. kwang@nrcan.gc.ca

Subduction zones produce the largest earthquakes. Over the past two decades,
space geodesy has revolutionized our view of crustal deformation between
consecutive earthquakes. The short time span of modern measurements necessitates 
comparative studies of subduction zones that are at different stages of the
deformation cycle. Piecing together geodetic 'snapshots' from different
subduction zones leads to a unifying picture in which the deformation is
controlled by both the short-term (years) and long-term (decades and centuries)
viscous behaviour of the mantle. Traditional views based on elastic models, such 
as coseismic deformation being a mirror image of interseismic deformation, are
being thoroughly revised.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11032 
PMID: 22517160 


642. Nature. 2012 Apr 15;485(7397):260-3. doi: 10.1038/nature11016.

Validation of ITD mutations in FLT3 as a therapeutic target in human acute
myeloid leukaemia.

Smith CC(1), Wang Q, Chin CS, Salerno S, Damon LE, Levis MJ, Perl AE, Travers KJ,
Wang S, Hunt JP, Zarrinkar PP, Schadt EE, Kasarskis A, Kuriyan J, Shah NP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of California, San Francisco,
California 94143, USA.

Effective targeted cancer therapeutic development depends upon distinguishing
disease-associated 'driver' mutations, which have causative roles in malignancy
pathogenesis, from 'passenger' mutations, which are dispensable for cancer
initiation and maintenance. Translational studies of clinically active targeted
therapeutics can definitively discriminate driver from passenger lesions and
provide valuable insights into human cancer biology. Activating internal tandem
duplication (ITD) mutations in FLT3 (FLT3-ITD) are detected in approximately 20% 
of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) patients and are associated with a poor
prognosis. Abundant scientific and clinical evidence, including the lack of
convincing clinical activity of early FLT3 inhibitors, suggests that FLT3-ITD
probably represents a passenger lesion. Here we report point mutations at three
residues within the kinase domain of FLT3-ITD that confer substantial in vitro
resistance to AC220 (quizartinib), an active investigational inhibitor of FLT3,
KIT, PDGFRA, PDGFRB and RET; evolution of AC220-resistant substitutions at two of
these amino acid positions was observed in eight of eight FLT3-ITD-positive AML
patients with acquired resistance to AC220. Our findings demonstrate that
FLT3-ITD can represent a driver lesion and valid therapeutic target in human AML.
AC220-resistant FLT3 kinase domain mutants represent high-value targets for
future FLT3 inhibitor development efforts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11016 
PMCID: PMC3390926
PMID: 22504184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nature. 2012 Apr 15;484(7395):546-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10999.

Crowding induces live cell extrusion to maintain homeostatic cell numbers in
epithelia.

Eisenhoffer GT(1), Loftus PD, Yoshigi M, Otsuna H, Chien CB, Morcos PA,
Rosenblatt J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncological Sciences, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of
Utah, 2000 Circle of Hope Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2012 Nov;143(5):1389-91.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 May;13(5):279.
    Cell. 2012 May 25;149(5):965-7.

For an epithelium to provide a protective barrier, it must maintain homeostatic
cell numbers by matching the number of dividing cells with the number of dying
cells. Although compensatory cell division can be triggered by dying cells, it is
unknown how cell death might relieve overcrowding due to proliferation. When we
trigger apoptosis in epithelia, dying cells are extruded to preserve a functional
barrier. Extrusion occurs by cells destined to die signalling to surrounding
epithelial cells to contract an actomyosin ring that squeezes the dying cell out.
However, it is not clear what drives cell death during normal homeostasis. Here
we show in human, canine and zebrafish cells that overcrowding due to
proliferation and migration induces extrusion of live cells to control epithelial
cell numbers. Extrusion of live cells occurs at sites where the highest crowding 
occurs in vivo and can be induced by experimentally overcrowding monolayers in
vitro. Like apoptotic cell extrusion, live cell extrusion resulting from
overcrowding also requires sphingosine 1-phosphate signalling and
Rho-kinase-dependent myosin contraction, but is distinguished by signalling
through stretch-activated channels. Moreover, disruption of a stretch-activated
channel, Piezo1, in zebrafish prevents extrusion and leads to the formation of
epithelial cell masses. Our findings reveal that during homeostatic turnover,
growth and division of epithelial cells on a confined substratum cause
overcrowding that leads to their extrusion and consequent death owing to the loss
of survival factors. These results suggest that live cell extrusion could be a
tumour-suppressive mechanism that prevents the accumulation of excess epithelial 
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10999 
PMCID: PMC4593481
PMID: 22504183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nature. 2012 Apr 15;485(7396):119-22. doi: 10.1038/nature11001.

A novel putative auxin carrier family regulates intracellular auxin homeostasis
in plants.

Barbez E(1), Kubeš M, Rolčík J, Béziat C, Pěnčík A, Wang B, Rosquete MR, Zhu J,
Dobrev PI, Lee Y, Zažímalovà E, Petrášek J, Geisler M, Friml J, Kleine-Vehn J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent University, 9052 Gent, Belgium.

The phytohormone auxin acts as a prominent signal, providing, by its local
accumulation or depletion in selected cells, a spatial and temporal reference for
changes in the developmental program. The distribution of auxin depends on both
auxin metabolism (biosynthesis, conjugation and degradation) and cellular auxin
transport. We identified in silico a novel putative auxin transport facilitator
family, called PIN-LIKES (PILS). Here we illustrate that PILS proteins are
required for auxin-dependent regulation of plant growth by determining the
cellular sensitivity to auxin. PILS proteins regulate intracellular auxin
accumulation at the endoplasmic reticulum and thus auxin availability for nuclear
auxin signalling. PILS activity affects the level of endogenous auxin
indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), presumably via intracellular accumulation and
metabolism. Our findings reveal that the transport machinery to compartmentalize 
auxin within the cell is of an unexpected molecular complexity and demonstrate
this compartmentalization to be functionally important for a number of
developmental processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11001 
PMID: 22504182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Nature. 2012 Apr 15;485(7396):114-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10962.

A Xanthomonas uridine 5'-monophosphate transferase inhibits plant immune kinases.

Feng F(1), Yang F, Rong W, Wu X, Zhang J, Chen S, He C, Zhou JM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Plant innate immunity is activated on the detection of pathogen-associated
molecular patterns (PAMPs) at the cell surface, or of pathogen effector proteins 
inside the plant cell. Together, PAMP-triggered immunity and effector-triggered
immunity constitute powerful defences against various phytopathogens. Pathogenic 
bacteria inject a variety of effector proteins into the host cell to assist
infection or propagation. A number of effector proteins have been shown to
inhibit plant immunity, but the biochemical basis remains unknown for the vast
majority of these effectors. Here we show that the Xanthomonas campestris
pathovar campestris type III effector AvrAC enhances virulence and inhibits plant
immunity by specifically targeting Arabidopsis BIK1 and RIPK, two receptor-like
cytoplasmic kinases known to mediate immune signalling. AvrAC is a uridylyl
transferase that adds uridine 5'-monophosphate to and conceals conserved
phosphorylation sites in the activation loop of BIK1 and RIPK, reducing their
kinase activity and consequently inhibiting downstream signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10962 
PMID: 22504181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Nature. 2012 Apr 15;484(7395):542-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10984.

Live-cell delamination counterbalances epithelial growth to limit tissue
overcrowding.

Marinari E(1), Mehonic A, Curran S, Gale J, Duke T, Baum B.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Cell Biology, University
College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    Cell. 2012 May 25;149(5):965-7.

The development and maintenance of an epithelium requires finely balanced rates
of growth and cell death. However, the mechanical and biochemical mechanisms that
ensure proper feedback control of tissue growth, which when deregulated
contribute to tumorigenesis, are poorly understood. Here we use the fly notum as 
a model system to identify a novel process of crowding-induced cell delamination 
that balances growth to ensure the development of well-ordered cell packing. In
crowded regions of the tissue, a proportion of cells undergo a serial loss of
cell-cell junctions and a progressive loss of apical area, before being squeezed 
out by their neighbours. This path of delamination is recapitulated by a simple
computational model of epithelial mechanics, in which stochastic cell loss
relieves overcrowding as the system tends towards equilibrium. We show that this 
process of delamination is mechanistically distinct from apoptosis-mediated cell 
extrusion and precedes the first signs of cell death. Overall, this analysis
reveals a simple mechanism that buffers epithelia against variations in growth.
Because live-cell delamination constitutes a mechanistic link between epithelial 
hyperplasia and cell invasion, this is likely to have important implications for 
our understanding of the early stages of cancer development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10984 
PMID: 22504180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nature. 2012 Apr 15;485(7397):256-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10996.

Cell attachment protein VP8* of a human rotavirus specifically interacts with
A-type histo-blood group antigen.

Hu L(1), Crawford SE, Czako R, Cortes-Penfield NW, Smith DF, Le Pendu J, Estes
MK, Prasad BV.

Author information: 
(1)Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

As with many other viruses, the initial cell attachment of rotaviruses, which are
the major causative agent of infantile gastroenteritis, is mediated by
interactions with specific cellular glycans. The distally located VP8* domain of 
the rotavirus spike protein VP4 (ref. 5) mediates such interactions. The existing
paradigm is that 'sialidase-sensitive' animal rotavirus strains bind to glycans
with terminal sialic acid (Sia), whereas 'sialidase-insensitive' human rotavirus 
strains bind to glycans with internal Sia such as GM1 (ref. 3). Although the
involvement of Sia in the animal strains is firmly supported by crystallographic 
studies, it is not yet known how VP8* of human rotaviruses interacts with Sia and
whether their cell attachment necessarily involves sialoglycans. Here we show
that VP8* of a human rotavirus strain specifically recognizes A-type histo-blood 
group antigen (HBGA) using a glycan array screen comprised of 511 glycans, and
that virus infectivity in HT-29 cells is abrogated by anti-A-type antibodies as
well as significantly enhanced in Chinese hamster ovary cells genetically
modified to express the A-type HBGA, providing a novel paradigm for initial cell 
attachment of human rotavirus. HBGAs are genetically determined glycoconjugates
present in mucosal secretions, epithelia and on red blood cells, and are
recognized as susceptibility and cell attachment factors for gastric pathogens
like Helicobacter pylori and noroviruses. Our crystallographic studies show that 
the A-type HBGA binds to the human rotavirus VP8* at the same location as the Sia
in the VP8* of animal rotavirus, and suggest how subtle changes within the same
structural framework allow for such receptor switching. These results raise the
possibility that host susceptibility to specific human rotavirus strains and
pathogenesis are influenced by genetically controlled expression of different
HBGAs among the world's population.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10996 
PMCID: PMC3350622
PMID: 22504179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):251-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10985.

Genome-wide protein-DNA binding dynamics suggest a molecular clutch for
transcription factor function.

Lickwar CR(1), Mueller F, Hanlon SE, McNally JG, Lieb JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599-3280, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 12;484(7393):171-2.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Jun;13(6):380.

Dynamic access to genetic information is central to organismal development and
environmental response. Consequently, genomic processes must be regulated by
mechanisms that alter genome function relatively rapidly. Conventional chromatin 
immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments measure transcription factor occupancy,
but give no indication of kinetics and are poor predictors of transcription
factor function at a given locus. To measure transcription-factor-binding
dynamics across the genome, we performed competition ChIP (refs 6, 7) with a
sequence-specific Saccharomyces cerevisiae transcription factor, Rap1 (ref. 8).
Rap1-binding dynamics and Rap1 occupancy were only weakly correlated (R(2) =
0.14), but binding dynamics were more strongly linked to function than occupancy.
Long Rap1 residence was coupled to transcriptional activation, whereas fast
binding turnover, which we refer to as 'treadmilling', was linked to low
transcriptional output. Thus, DNA-binding events that seem identical by
conventional ChIP may have different underlying modes of interaction that lead to
opposing functional outcomes. We propose that transcription factor binding
turnover is a major point of regulation in determining the functional
consequences of transcription factor binding, and is mediated mainly by control
of competition between transcription factors and nucleosomes. Our model predicts 
a clutch-like mechanism that rapidly engages a treadmilling transcription factor 
into a stable binding state, or vice versa, to modulate transcription factor
function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10985 
PMCID: PMC3341663
PMID: 22498630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10964.

Adaptation at the output of the chemotaxis signalling pathway.

Yuan J(1), Branch RW, Hosu BG, Berg HC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 12;484(7393):173-5.

In the bacterial chemotaxis network, receptor clusters process input, and
flagellar motors generate output. Receptor and motor complexes are coupled by the
diffusible protein CheY-P. Receptor output (the steady-state concentration of
CheY-P) varies from cell to cell. However, the motor is ultrasensitive, with a
narrow operating range of CheY-P concentrations. How the match between receptor
output and motor input might be optimized is unclear. Here we show that the motor
can shift its operating range by changing its composition. The number of FliM
subunits in the C-ring increases in response to a decrement in the concentration 
of CheY-P, increasing motor sensitivity. This shift in sensitivity explains the
slow partial adaptation observed in mutants that lack the receptor
methyltransferase and methylesterase and why motors show signal-dependent FliM
turnover. Adaptive remodelling is likely to be a common feature in the operation 
of many molecular machines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10964 
PMCID: PMC3335734
PMID: 22498629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):223-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10970.

Layered boron nitride as a release layer for mechanical transfer of GaN-based
devices.

Kobayashi Y(1), Kumakura K, Akasaka T, Makimoto T.

Author information: 
(1)NTT Basic Research Laboratories, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation
3-1, Morinosato Wakamiya, Atsugi, Kanagawa 243-0198, Japan.
kobayashi.yasuyuki@lab.ntt.co.jp

Nitride semiconductors are the materials of choice for a variety of device
applications, notably optoelectronics and high-frequency/high-power electronics. 
One important practical goal is to realize such devices on large, flexible and
affordable substrates, on which direct growth of nitride semiconductors of
sufficient quality is problematic. Several techniques--such as laser
lift-off--have been investigated to enable the transfer of nitride devices from
one substrate to another, but existing methods still have some important
disadvantages. Here we demonstrate that hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) can form a
release layer that enables the mechanical transfer of gallium nitride (GaN)-based
device structures onto foreign substrates. The h-BN layer serves two purposes: it
acts as a buffer layer for the growth of high-quality GaN-based semiconductors,
and provides a shear plane that makes it straightforward to release the resulting
devices. We illustrate the potential versatility of this approach by using
h-BN-buffered sapphire substrates to grow an AlGaN/GaN heterostructure with
electron mobility of 1,100 cm(2) V(-1) s(-1), an InGaN/GaN multiple-quantum-well 
structure, and a multiple-quantum-well light-emitting diode. These device
structures, ranging in area from five millimetres square to two centimetres
square, are then mechanically released from the sapphire substrates and
successfully transferred onto other substrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10970 
PMID: 22498627 


651. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):220-2. doi: 10.1038/nature10935.

A close halo of large transparent grains around extreme red giant stars.

Norris BR(1), Tuthill PG, Ireland MJ, Lacour S, Zijlstra AA, Lykou F, Evans TM,
Stewart P, Bedding TR.

Author information: 
(1)Sydney Institute for Astronomy, School of Physics, University of Sydney, New
South Wales 2006, Australia. bnorris@physics.usyd.edu.au

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 12;484(7393):172-3.

An intermediate-mass star ends its life by ejecting the bulk of its envelope in a
slow, dense wind. Stellar pulsations are thought to elevate gas to an altitude
cool enough for the condensation of dust, which is then accelerated by radiation 
pressure, entraining the gas and driving the wind. Explaining the amount of mass 
loss, however, has been a problem because of the difficulty of observing tenuous 
gas and dust only tens of milliarcseconds from the star. For this reason, there
is no consensus on the way sufficient momentum is transferred from the light from
the star to the outflow. Here we report spatially resolved, multiwavelength
observations of circumstellar dust shells of three stars on the asymptotic giant 
branch of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. When imaged in scattered light, dust
shells were found at remarkably small radii (less than about two stellar radii)
and with unexpectedly large grains (about 300 nanometres in radius). This
proximity to the photosphere argues for dust species that are transparent to the 
light from the star and, therefore, resistant to sublimation by the intense
radiation field. Although transparency usually implies insufficient radiative
pressure to drive a wind, the radiation field can accelerate these large grains
through photon scattering rather than absorption--a plausible mass loss mechanism
for lower-amplitude pulsating stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10935 
PMID: 22498626 


652. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):195-200. doi: 10.1038/nature11023.

An elementary quantum network of single atoms in optical cavities.

Ritter S(1), Nölleke C, Hahn C, Reiserer A, Neuzner A, Uphoff M, Mücke M,
Figueroa E, Bochmann J, Rempe G.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, 85748
Garching, Germany. stephan.ritter@mpq.mpg.de

Quantum networks are distributed quantum many-body systems with tailored topology
and controlled information exchange. They are the backbone of distributed quantum
computing architectures and quantum communication. Here we present a prototype of
such a quantum network based on single atoms embedded in optical cavities. We
show that atom-cavity systems form universal nodes capable of sending, receiving,
storing and releasing photonic quantum information. Quantum connectivity between 
nodes is achieved in the conceptually most fundamental way-by the coherent
exchange of a single photon. We demonstrate the faithful transfer of an atomic
quantum state and the creation of entanglement between two identical nodes in
separate laboratories. The non-local state that is created is manipulated by
local quantum bit (qubit) rotation. This efficient cavity-based approach to
quantum networking is particularly promising because it offers a clear
perspective for scalability, thus paving the way towards large-scale quantum
networks and their applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11023 
PMID: 22498625 


653. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):186-94. doi: 10.1038/nature10947.

Emerging fungal threats to animal, plant and ecosystem health.

Fisher MC(1), Henk DA, Briggs CJ, Brownstein JS, Madoff LC, McCraw SL, Gurr SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College, London W2
1PG, UK. matthew.fisher@imperial.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):446.

The past two decades have seen an increasing number of virulent infectious
diseases in natural populations and managed landscapes. In both animals and
plants, an unprecedented number of fungal and fungal-like diseases have recently 
caused some of the most severe die-offs and extinctions ever witnessed in wild
species, and are jeopardizing food security. Human activity is intensifying
fungal disease dispersal by modifying natural environments and thus creating new 
opportunities for evolution. We argue that nascent fungal infections will cause
increasing attrition of biodiversity, with wider implications for human and
ecosystem health, unless steps are taken to tighten biosecurity worldwide.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10947 
PMCID: PMC3821985
PMID: 22498624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7393):177-85. doi: 10.1038/nature11008.

High-valent organometallic copper and palladium in catalysis.

Hickman AJ(1), Sanford MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan, 930 North University Avenue, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Copper and palladium catalysts are critically important in numerous commercial
chemical processes. Improvements in the activity, selectivity and scope of these 
catalysts could drastically reduce the environmental impact, and increase the
sustainability, of chemical reactions. One rapidly developing strategy for
achieving these goals is to use 'high-valent' organometallic copper and palladium
intermediates in catalysis. Here we describe recent advances involving both the
fundamental chemistry and the applications of these high-valent metal complexes
in numerous synthetically useful catalytic transformations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11008 
PMCID: PMC4384170
PMID: 22498623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;485(7398):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11031.

Thermal and electrical conductivity of iron at Earth's core conditions.

Pozzo M(1), Davies C, Gubbins D, Alfè D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Thomas Young Centre at UCL, UCL, Gower Street,
London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):319-20.

The Earth acts as a gigantic heat engine driven by the decay of radiogenic
isotopes and slow cooling, which gives rise to plate tectonics, volcanoes and
mountain building. Another key product is the geomagnetic field, generated in the
liquid iron core by a dynamo running on heat released by cooling and freezing (as
the solid inner core grows), and on chemical convection (due to light elements
expelled from the liquid on freezing). The power supplied to the geodynamo,
measured by the heat flux across the core-mantle boundary (CMB), places
constraints on Earth's evolution. Estimates of CMB heat flux depend on properties
of iron mixtures under the extreme pressure and temperature conditions in the
core, most critically on the thermal and electrical conductivities. These
quantities remain poorly known because of inherent experimental and theoretical
difficulties. Here we use density functional theory to compute these
conductivities in liquid iron mixtures at core conditions from first
principles--unlike previous estimates, which relied on extrapolations. The
mixtures of iron, oxygen, sulphur and silicon are taken from earlier work and fit
the seismologically determined core density and inner-core boundary density jump.
We find both conductivities to be two to three times higher than estimates in
current use. The changes are so large that core thermal histories and power
requirements need to be reassessed. New estimates indicate that the adiabatic
heat flux is 15 to 16 terawatts at the CMB, higher than present estimates of CMB 
heat flux based on mantle convection; the top of the core must be thermally
stratified and any convection in the upper core must be driven by chemical
convection against the adverse thermal buoyancy or lateral variations in CMB heat
flow. Power for the geodynamo is greatly restricted, and future models of mantle 
evolution will need to incorporate a high CMB heat flux and explain the recent
formation of the inner core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11031 
PMID: 22495307 


656. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;485(7398):381-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11049.

Spatial partitioning of the regulatory landscape of the X-inactivation centre.

Nora EP(1), Lajoie BR, Schulz EG, Giorgetti L, Okamoto I, Servant N, Piolot T,
van Berkum NL, Meisig J, Sedat J, Gribnau J, Barillot E, Blüthgen N, Dekker J,
Heard E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm, Paris F-75248, France.

In eukaryotes transcriptional regulation often involves multiple long-range
elements and is influenced by the genomic environment. A prime example of this
concerns the mouse X-inactivation centre (Xic), which orchestrates the initiation
of X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) by controlling the expression of the
non-protein-coding Xist transcript. The extent of Xic sequences required for the 
proper regulation of Xist remains unknown. Here we use chromosome conformation
capture carbon-copy (5C) and super-resolution microscopy to analyse the spatial
organization of a 4.5-megabases (Mb) region including Xist. We discover a series 
of discrete 200-kilobase to 1 Mb topologically associating domains (TADs),
present both before and after cell differentiation and on the active and inactive
X. TADs align with, but do not rely on, several domain-wide features of the
epigenome, such as H3K27me3 or H3K9me2 blocks and lamina-associated domains. TADs
also align with coordinately regulated gene clusters. Disruption of a TAD
boundary causes ectopic chromosomal contacts and long-range transcriptional
misregulation. The Xist/Tsix sense/antisense unit illustrates how TADs enable the
spatial segregation of oppositely regulated chromosomal neighbourhoods, with the 
respective promoters of Xist and Tsix lying in adjacent TADs, each containing
their known positive regulators. We identify a novel distal regulatory region of 
Tsix within its TAD, which produces a long intervening RNA, Linx. In addition to 
uncovering a new principle of cis-regulatory architecture of mammalian
chromosomes, our study sets the stage for the full genetic dissection of the
X-inactivation centre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11049 
PMCID: PMC3555144
PMID: 22495304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;484(7394):367-70. doi: 10.1038/nature11046.

Clusters of iron-rich cells in the upper beak of pigeons are macrophages not
magnetosensitive neurons.

Treiber CD(1), Salzer MC, Riegler J, Edelman N, Sugar C, Breuss M, Pichler P,
Cadiou H, Saunders M, Lythgoe M, Shaw J, Keays DA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Pathology, Dr Bohr-Gasse, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 19;484(7394):320-1.

Understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms that mediate magnetosensation
in vertebrates is a formidable scientific problem. One hypothesis is that
magnetic information is transduced into neuronal impulses by using a
magnetite-based magnetoreceptor. Previous studies claim to have identified a
magnetic sense system in the pigeon, common to avian species, which consists of
magnetite-containing trigeminal afferents located at six specific loci in the
rostral subepidermis of the beak. These studies have been widely accepted in the 
field and heavily relied upon by both behavioural biologists and physicists. Here
we show that clusters of iron-rich cells in the rostro-medial upper beak of the
pigeon Columbia livia are macrophages, not magnetosensitive neurons. Our
systematic characterization of the pigeon upper beak identified iron-rich cells
in the stratum laxum of the subepidermis, the basal region of the respiratory
epithelium and the apex of feather follicles. Using a three-dimensional blueprint
of the pigeon beak created by magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography,
we mapped the location of iron-rich cells, revealing unexpected variation in
their distribution and number--an observation that is inconsistent with a role in
magnetic sensation. Ultrastructure analysis of these cells, which are not unique 
to the beak, showed that their subcellular architecture includes ferritin-like
granules, siderosomes, haemosiderin and filopodia, characteristics of iron-rich
macrophages. Our conclusion that these cells are macrophages and not
magnetosensitive neurons is supported by immunohistological studies showing
co-localization with the antigen-presenting molecule major histocompatibility
complex class II. Our work necessitates a renewed search for the true
magnetite-dependent magnetoreceptor in birds.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11046 
PMID: 22495303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Nature. 2012 Apr 11;485(7398):376-80. doi: 10.1038/nature11082.

Topological domains in mammalian genomes identified by analysis of chromatin
interactions.

Dixon JR(1), Selvaraj S, Yue F, Kim A, Li Y, Shen Y, Hu M, Liu JS, Ren B.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 
92093, USA.

The spatial organization of the genome is intimately linked to its biological
function, yet our understanding of higher order genomic structure is coarse,
fragmented and incomplete. In the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, interphase
chromosomes occupy distinct chromosome territories, and numerous models have been
proposed for how chromosomes fold within chromosome territories. These models,
however, provide only few mechanistic details about the relationship between
higher order chromatin structure and genome function. Recent advances in genomic 
technologies have led to rapid advances in the study of three-dimensional genome 
organization. In particular, Hi-C has been introduced as a method for identifying
higher order chromatin interactions genome wide. Here we investigate the
three-dimensional organization of the human and mouse genomes in embryonic stem
cells and terminally differentiated cell types at unprecedented resolution. We
identify large, megabase-sized local chromatin interaction domains, which we term
'topological domains', as a pervasive structural feature of the genome
organization. These domains correlate with regions of the genome that constrain
the spread of heterochromatin. The domains are stable across different cell types
and highly conserved across species, indicating that topological domains are an
inherent property of mammalian genomes. Finally, we find that the boundaries of
topological domains are enriched for the insulator binding protein CTCF,
housekeeping genes, transfer RNAs and short interspersed element (SINE)
retrotransposons, indicating that these factors may have a role in establishing
the topological domain structure of the genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11082 
PMCID: PMC3356448
PMID: 22495300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 2012 Apr 8;485(7396):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10988.

Inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor regulates hepatic gluconeogenesis in
fasting and diabetes.

Wang Y(1), Li G, Goode J, Paz JC, Ouyang K, Screaton R, Fischer WH, Chen J, Tabas
I, Montminy M.

Author information: 
(1)Clayton Foundation Laboratories for Peptide Biology, The Salk Institute for
Biological Studies, 10010 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.

In the fasted state, increases in circulating glucagon promote hepatic glucose
production through induction of the gluconeogenic program. Triggering of the
cyclic AMP pathway increases gluconeogenic gene expression via the
de-phosphorylation of the CREB co-activator CRTC2 (ref. 1). Glucagon promotes
CRTC2 dephosphorylation in part through the protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated
inhibition of the CRTC2 kinase SIK2. A number of Ser/Thr phosphatases seem to be 
capable of dephosphorylating CRTC2 (refs 2, 3), but the mechanisms by which
hormonal cues regulate these enzymes remain unclear. Here we show in mice that
glucagon stimulates CRTC2 dephosphorylation in hepatocytes by mobilizing
intracellular calcium stores and activating the calcium/calmodulin-dependent
Ser/Thr-phosphatase calcineurin (also known as PP3CA). Glucagon increased
cytosolic calcium concentration through the PKA-mediated phosphorylation of
inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP(3)Rs), which associate with CRTC2.
After their activation, InsP(3)Rs enhanced gluconeogenic gene expression by
promoting the calcineurin-mediated dephosphorylation of CRTC2. During feeding,
increases in insulin signalling reduced CRTC2 activity via the AKT-mediated
inactivation of InsP(3)Rs. InsP(3)R activity was increased in diabetes, leading
to upregulation of the gluconeogenic program. As hepatic downregulation of
InsP(3)Rs and calcineurin improved circulating glucose levels in insulin
resistance, these results demonstrate how interactions between cAMP and calcium
pathways at the level of the InsP(3)R modulate hepatic glucose production under
fasting conditions and in diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10988 
PMCID: PMC3343222
PMID: 22495310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2012 Apr 8;485(7397):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11013.

Systematic discovery of structural elements governing stability of mammalian
messenger RNAs.

Goodarzi H(1), Najafabadi HS, Oikonomou P, Greco TM, Fish L, Salavati R, Cristea 
IM, Tavazoie S.

Author information: 
(1)Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.

Decoding post-transcriptional regulatory programs in RNA is a critical step
towards the larger goal of developing predictive dynamical models of cellular
behaviour. Despite recent efforts, the vast landscape of RNA regulatory elements 
remains largely uncharacterized. A long-standing obstacle is the contribution of 
local RNA secondary structure to the definition of interaction partners in a
variety of regulatory contexts, including--but not limited to--transcript
stability, alternative splicing and localization. There are many documented
instances where the presence of a structural regulatory element dictates
alternative splicing patterns (for example, human cardiac troponin T) or affects 
other aspects of RNA biology. Thus, a full characterization of
post-transcriptional regulatory programs requires capturing information provided 
by both local secondary structures and the underlying sequence. Here we present a
computational framework based on context-free grammars and mutual information
that systematically explores the immense space of small structural elements and
reveals motifs that are significantly informative of genome-wide measurements of 
RNA behaviour. By applying this framework to genome-wide human mRNA stability
data, we reveal eight highly significant elements with substantial structural
information, for the strongest of which we show a major role in global mRNA
regulation. Through biochemistry, mass spectrometry and in vivo binding studies, 
we identified human HNRPA2B1 (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1, also
known as HNRNPA2B1) as the key regulator that binds this element and stabilizes a
large number of its target genes. We created a global post-transcriptional
regulatory map based on the identity of the discovered linear and structural
cis-regulatory elements, their regulatory interactions and their target pathways.
This approach could also be used to reveal the structural elements that modulate 
other aspects of RNA behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11013 
PMCID: PMC3350620
PMID: 22495308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2012 Apr 8;484(7395):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10973.

An inverse relationship to germline transcription defines centromeric chromatin
in C. elegans.

Gassmann R(1), Rechtsteiner A, Yuen KW, Muroyama A, Egelhofer T, Gaydos L, Barron
F, Maddox P, Essex A, Monen J, Ercan S, Lieb JD, Oegema K, Strome S, Desai A.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Department of Cellular & Molecular
Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Centromeres are chromosomal loci that direct segregation of the genome during
cell division. The histone H3 variant CENP-A (also known as CenH3) defines
centromeres in monocentric organisms, which confine centromere activity to a
discrete chromosomal region, and holocentric organisms, which distribute
centromere activity along the chromosome length. Because the highly repetitive
DNA found at most centromeres is neither necessary nor sufficient for centromere 
function, stable inheritance of CENP-A nucleosomal chromatin is postulated to
propagate centromere identity epigenetically. Here, we show that in the
holocentric nematode Caenorhabditis elegans pre-existing CENP-A nucleosomes are
not necessary to guide recruitment of new CENP-A nucleosomes. This is indicated
by lack of CENP-A transmission by sperm during fertilization and by removal and
subsequent reloading of CENP-A during oogenic meiotic prophase. Genome-wide
mapping of CENP-A location in embryos and quantification of CENP-A molecules in
nuclei revealed that CENP-A is incorporated at low density in domains that
cumulatively encompass half the genome. Embryonic CENP-A domains are established 
in a pattern inverse to regions that are transcribed in the germline and early
embryo, and ectopic transcription of genes in a mutant germline altered the
pattern of CENP-A incorporation in embryos. Furthermore, regions transcribed in
the germline but not embryos fail to incorporate CENP-A throughout embryogenesis.
We propose that germline transcription defines genomic regions that exclude
CENP-A incorporation in progeny, and that zygotic transcription during early
embryogenesis remodels and reinforces this basal pattern. These findings link
centromere identity to transcription and shed light on the evolutionary
plasticity of centromeres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10973 
PMCID: PMC3538161
PMID: 22495302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7393):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10946.

Aerosols implicated as a prime driver of twentieth-century North Atlantic climate
variability.

Booth BB(1), Dunstone NJ, Halloran PR, Andrews T, Bellouin N.

Author information: 
(1)Met Office Hadley Centre, FitzRoy Road, Exeter EX1 3PB, UK.
ben.booth@metoffice.gov.uk

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 May 24;485(7399):534.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 12;484(7393):170-1.

Systematic climate shifts have been linked to multidecadal variability in
observed sea surface temperatures in the North Atlantic Ocean. These links are
extensive, influencing a range of climate processes such as hurricane activity
and African Sahel and Amazonian droughts. The variability is distinct from
historical global-mean temperature changes and is commonly attributed to natural 
ocean oscillations. A number of studies have provided evidence that aerosols can 
influence long-term changes in sea surface temperatures, but climate models have 
so far failed to reproduce these interactions and the role of aerosols in decadal
variability remains unclear. Here we use a state-of-the-art Earth system climate 
model to show that aerosol emissions and periods of volcanic activity explain 76 
per cent of the simulated multidecadal variance in detrended 1860-2005 North
Atlantic sea surface temperatures. After 1950, simulated variability is within
observational estimates; our estimates for 1910-1940 capture twice the warming of
previous generation models but do not explain the entire observed trend. Other
processes, such as ocean circulation, may also have contributed to variability in
the early twentieth century. Mechanistically, we find that inclusion of
aerosol-cloud microphysical effects, which were included in few previous
multimodel ensembles, dominates the magnitude (80 per cent) and the spatial
pattern of the total surface aerosol forcing in the North Atlantic. Our findings 
suggest that anthropogenic aerosol emissions influenced a range of societally
important historical climate events such as peaks in hurricane activity and Sahel
drought. Decadal-scale model predictions of regional Atlantic climate will
probably be improved by incorporating aerosol-cloud microphysical interactions
and estimates of future concentrations of aerosols, emissions of which are
directly addressable by policy actions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10946 
PMID: 22498628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;486(7403):395-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10933.

The clonal and mutational evolution spectrum of primary triple-negative breast
cancers.

Shah SP(1), Roth A, Goya R, Oloumi A, Ha G, Zhao Y, Turashvili G, Ding J, Tse K, 
Haffari G, Bashashati A, Prentice LM, Khattra J, Burleigh A, Yap D, Bernard V,
McPherson A, Shumansky K, Crisan A, Giuliany R, Heravi-Moussavi A, Rosner J, Lai 
D, Birol I, Varhol R, Tam A, Dhalla N, Zeng T, Ma K, Chan SK, Griffith M,
Moradian A, Cheng SW, Morin GB, Watson P, Gelmon K, Chia S, Chin SF, Curtis C,
Rueda OM, Pharoah PD, Damaraju S, Mackey J, Hoon K, Harkins T, Tadigotla V,
Sigaroudinia M, Gascard P, Tlsty T, Costello JF, Meyer IM, Eaves CJ, Wasserman
WW, Jones S, Huntsman D, Hirst M, Caldas C, Marra MA, Aparicio S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 2B5, Canada. sshah@bccrc.ca

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2012;14(5):323.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Jun;12(6):375.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):328-9.

Primary triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs), a tumour type defined by lack of 
oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor and ERBB2 gene amplification, represent
approximately 16% of all breast cancers. Here we show in 104 TNBC cases that at
the time of diagnosis these cancers exhibit a wide and continuous spectrum of
genomic evolution, with some having only a handful of coding somatic aberrations 
in a few pathways, whereas others contain hundreds of coding somatic mutations.
High-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) revealed that only approximately 36% of 
mutations are expressed. Using deep re-sequencing measurements of allelic
abundance for 2,414 somatic mutations, we determine for the first time-to our
knowledge-in an epithelial tumour subtype, the relative abundance of clonal
frequencies among cases representative of the population. We show that TNBCs vary
widely in their clonal frequencies at the time of diagnosis, with the basal
subtype of TNBC showing more variation than non-basal TNBC. Although p53 (also
known as TP53), PIK3CA and PTEN somatic mutations seem to be clonally dominant
compared to other genes, in some tumours their clonal frequencies are
incompatible with founder status. Mutations in cytoskeletal, cell shape and
motility proteins occurred at lower clonal frequencies, suggesting that they
occurred later during tumour progression. Taken together, our results show that
understanding the biology and therapeutic responses of patients with TNBC will
require the determination of individual tumour clonal genotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10933 
PMCID: PMC3863681
PMID: 22495314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7394):371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10991.

Unexpected features of Drosophila circadian behavioural rhythms under natural
conditions.

Vanin S(1), Bhutani S, Montelli S, Menegazzi P, Green EW, Pegoraro M, Sandrelli
F, Costa R, Kyriacou CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Padova, Padova 35131, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 19;484(7394):325-6.
    Nat Methods. 2012 Jun;9(6):529.

Circadian clocks have evolved to synchronize physiology, metabolism and behaviour
to the 24-h geophysical cycles of the Earth. Drosophila melanogaster's rhythmic
locomotor behaviour provides the main phenotype for the identification of higher 
eukaryotic clock genes. Under laboratory light-dark cycles, flies show enhanced
activity before lights on and off signals, and these anticipatory responses have 
defined the neuronal sites of the corresponding morning (M) and evening (E)
oscillators. However, the natural environment provides much richer cycling
environmental stimuli than the laboratory, so we sought to examine fly locomotor 
rhythms in the wild. Here we show that several key laboratory-based assumptions
about circadian behaviour are not supported by natural observations. These
include the anticipation of light transitions, the midday 'siesta', the fly's
crepuscular activity, its nocturnal behaviour under moonlight, and the dominance 
of light stimuli over temperature. We also observe a third major locomotor
component in addition to M and E, which we term 'A' (afternoon). Furthermore, we 
show that these natural rhythm phenotypes can be observed in the laboratory by
using realistic temperature and light cycle simulations. Our results suggest that
a comprehensive re-examination of circadian behaviour and its molecular readouts 
under simulated natural conditions will provide a more authentic interpretation
of the adaptive significance of this important rhythmic phenotype. Such studies
should also help to clarify the underlying molecular and neuroanatomical
substrates of the clock under natural protocols.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10991 
PMID: 22495312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;485(7397):242-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11011.

Patterns and rates of exonic de novo mutations in autism spectrum disorders.

Neale BM(1), Kou Y, Liu L, Ma'ayan A, Samocha KE, Sabo A, Lin CF, Stevens C, Wang
LS, Makarov V, Polak P, Yoon S, Maguire J, Crawford EL, Campbell NG, Geller ET,
Valladares O, Schafer C, Liu H, Zhao T, Cai G, Lihm J, Dannenfelser R, Jabado O, 
Peralta Z, Nagaswamy U, Muzny D, Reid JG, Newsham I, Wu Y, Lewis L, Han Y, Voight
BF, Lim E, Rossin E, Kirby A, Flannick J, Fromer M, Shakir K, Fennell T,
Garimella K, Banks E, Poplin R, Gabriel S, DePristo M, Wimbish JR, Boone BE, Levy
SE, Betancur C, Sunyaev S, Boerwinkle E, Buxbaum JD, Cook EH Jr, Devlin B, Gibbs 
RA, Roeder K, Schellenberg GD, Sutcliffe JS, Daly MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine,
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Jun;13(6):359.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Jun;13(6):377.

Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are believed to have genetic and environmental
origins, yet in only a modest fraction of individuals can specific causes be
identified. To identify further genetic risk factors, here we assess the role of 
de novo mutations in ASD by sequencing the exomes of ASD cases and their parents 
(n = 175 trios). Fewer than half of the cases (46.3%) carry a missense or
nonsense de novo variant, and the overall rate of mutation is only modestly
higher than the expected rate. In contrast, the proteins encoded by genes that
harboured de novo missense or nonsense mutations showed a higher degree of
connectivity among themselves and to previous ASD genes as indexed by
protein-protein interaction screens. The small increase in the rate of de novo
events, when taken together with the protein interaction results, are consistent 
with an important but limited role for de novo point mutations in ASD, similar to
that documented for de novo copy number variants. Genetic models incorporating
these data indicate that most of the observed de novo events are unconnected to
ASD; those that do confer risk are distributed across many genes and are
incompletely penetrant (that is, not necessarily sufficient for disease). Our
results support polygenic models in which spontaneous coding mutations in any of 
a large number of genes increases risk by 5- to 20-fold. Despite the challenge
posed by such models, results from de novo events and a large parallel
case-control study provide strong evidence in favour of CHD8 and KATNAL2 as
genuine autism risk factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11011 
PMCID: PMC3613847
PMID: 22495311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;485(7397):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10989.

Sporadic autism exomes reveal a highly interconnected protein network of de novo 
mutations.

O'Roak BJ(1), Vives L, Girirajan S, Karakoc E, Krumm N, Coe BP, Levy R, Ko A, Lee
C, Smith JD, Turner EH, Stanaway IB, Vernot B, Malig M, Baker C, Reilly B, Akey
JM, Borenstein E, Rieder MJ, Nickerson DA, Bernier R, Shendure J, Eichler EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Jun;13(6):377.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Jun;13(6):359.

It is well established that autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have a strong genetic
component; however, for at least 70% of cases, the underlying genetic cause is
unknown. Under the hypothesis that de novo mutations underlie a substantial
fraction of the risk for developing ASD in families with no previous history of
ASD or related phenotypes--so-called sporadic or simplex families--we sequenced
all coding regions of the genome (the exome) for parent-child trios exhibiting
sporadic ASD, including 189 new trios and 20 that were previously reported.
Additionally, we also sequenced the exomes of 50 unaffected siblings
corresponding to these new (n = 31) and previously reported trios (n = 19), for a
total of 677 individual exomes from 209 families. Here we show that de novo point
mutations are overwhelmingly paternal in origin (4:1 bias) and positively
correlated with paternal age, consistent with the modest increased risk for
children of older fathers to develop ASD. Moreover, 39% (49 of 126) of the most
severe or disruptive de novo mutations map to a highly interconnected
β-catenin/chromatin remodelling protein network ranked significantly for autism
candidate genes. In proband exomes, recurrent protein-altering mutations were
observed in two genes: CHD8 and NTNG1. Mutation screening of six candidate genes 
in 1,703 ASD probands identified additional de novo, protein-altering mutations
in GRIN2B, LAMC3 and SCN1A. Combined with copy number variant (CNV) data, these
results indicate extreme locus heterogeneity but also provide a target for future
discovery, diagnostics and therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10989 
PMCID: PMC3350576
PMID: 22495309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;485(7397):237-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10945.

De novo mutations revealed by whole-exome sequencing are strongly associated with
autism.

Sanders SJ(1), Murtha MT, Gupta AR, Murdoch JD, Raubeson MJ, Willsey AJ,
Ercan-Sencicek AG, DiLullo NM, Parikshak NN, Stein JL, Walker MF, Ober GT, Teran 
NA, Song Y, El-Fishawy P, Murtha RC, Choi M, Overton JD, Bjornson RD, Carriero
NJ, Meyer KA, Bilguvar K, Mane SM, Sestan N, Lifton RP, Günel M, Roeder K,
Geschwind DH, Devlin B, State MW.

Author information: 
(1)Program on Neurogenetics, Child Study Center, Department of Psychiatry, Yale
University School of Medicine, 230 South Frontage Road, New Haven, Connecticut
06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Jun;13(6):359.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Jun;13(6):377.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Jun;8(6):295.

Multiple studies have confirmed the contribution of rare de novo copy number
variations to the risk for autism spectrum disorders. But whereas de novo single 
nucleotide variants have been identified in affected individuals, their
contribution to risk has yet to be clarified. Specifically, the frequency and
distribution of these mutations have not been well characterized in matched
unaffected controls, and such data are vital to the interpretation of de novo
coding mutations observed in probands. Here we show, using whole-exome sequencing
of 928 individuals, including 200 phenotypically discordant sibling pairs, that
highly disruptive (nonsense and splice-site) de novo mutations in brain-expressed
genes are associated with autism spectrum disorders and carry large effects. On
the basis of mutation rates in unaffected individuals, we demonstrate that
multiple independent de novo single nucleotide variants in the same gene among
unrelated probands reliably identifies risk alleles, providing a clear path
forward for gene discovery. Among a total of 279 identified de novo coding
mutations, there is a single instance in probands, and none in siblings, in which
two independent nonsense variants disrupt the same gene, SCN2A (sodium channel,
voltage-gated, type II, α subunit), a result that is highly unlikely by chance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10945 
PMCID: PMC3667984
PMID: 22495306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;485(7396):104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10940.

An RNA interference screen uncovers a new molecule in stem cell self-renewal and 
long-term regeneration.

Chen T(1), Heller E, Beronja S, Oshimori N, Stokes N, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Rockefeller University, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

Adult stem cells sustain tissue maintenance and regeneration throughout the
lifetime of an animal. These cells often reside in specific signalling niches
that orchestrate the stem cell's balancing act between quiescence and cell-cycle 
re-entry based on the demand for tissue regeneration. How stem cells maintain
their capacity to replenish themselves after tissue regeneration is poorly
understood. Here we use RNA-interference-based loss-of-function screening as a
powerful approach to uncover transcriptional regulators that govern the
self-renewal capacity and regenerative potential of stem cells. Hair follicle
stem cells provide an ideal model. These cells have been purified and
characterized from their native niche in vivo and, in contrast to their rapidly
dividing progeny, they can be maintained and passaged long-term in vitro.
Focusing on the nuclear proteins and/or transcription factors that are enriched
in stem cells compared with their progeny, we screened ∼2,000 short hairpin RNAs 
for their effect on long-term, but not short-term, stem cell self-renewal in
vitro. To address the physiological relevance of our findings, we selected one
candidate that was uncovered in the screen: TBX1. This transcription factor is
expressed in many tissues but has not been studied in the context of stem cell
biology. By conditionally ablating Tbx1 in vivo, we showed that during
homeostasis, tissue regeneration occurs normally but is markedly delayed. We then
devised an in vivo assay for stem cell replenishment and found that when
challenged with repetitive rounds of regeneration, the Tbx1-deficient stem cell
niche becomes progressively depleted. Addressing the mechanism of TBX1 action, we
discovered that TBX1 acts as an intrinsic rheostat of BMP signalling: it is a
gatekeeper that governs the transition between stem cell quiescence and
proliferation in hair follicles. Our results validate the RNA interference screen
and underscore its power in unearthing new molecules that govern stem cell
self-renewal and tissue-regenerative potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10940 
PMCID: PMC3600643
PMID: 22495305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7394):394-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10980.

Hsp72 preserves muscle function and slows progression of severe muscular
dystrophy.

Gehrig SM(1), van der Poel C, Sayer TA, Schertzer JD, Henstridge DC, Church JE,
Lamon S, Russell AP, Davies KE, Febbraio MA, Lynch GS.

Author information: 
(1)Basic and Clinical Myology Laboratory, Department of Physiology, University of
Melbourne, Victoria, 3010, Australia.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 May;11(5):354.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a severe and progressive muscle wasting
disorder caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene that result in the absence of
the membrane-stabilizing protein dystrophin. Dystrophin-deficient muscle fibres
are fragile and susceptible to an influx of Ca(2+), which activates inflammatory 
and muscle degenerative pathways. At present there is no cure for DMD, and
existing therapies are ineffective. Here we show that increasing the expression
of intramuscular heat shock protein 72 (Hsp72) preserves muscle strength and
ameliorates the dystrophic pathology in two mouse models of muscular dystrophy.
Treatment with BGP-15 (a pharmacological inducer of Hsp72 currently in clinical
trials for diabetes) improved muscle architecture, strength and contractile
function in severely affected diaphragm muscles in mdx dystrophic mice. In dko
mice, a phenocopy of DMD that results in severe spinal curvature (kyphosis),
muscle weakness and premature death, BGP-15 decreased kyphosis, improved the
dystrophic pathophysiology in limb and diaphragm muscles and extended lifespan.
We found that the sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA, the
main protein responsible for the removal of intracellular Ca(2+)) is
dysfunctional in severely affected muscles of mdx and dko mice, and that Hsp72
interacts with SERCA to preserve its function under conditions of stress,
ultimately contributing to the decreased muscle degeneration seen with Hsp72
upregulation. Treatment with BGP-15 similarly increased SERCA activity in
dystrophic skeletal muscles. Our results provide evidence that increasing the
expression of Hsp72 in muscle (through the administration of BGP-15) has
significant therapeutic potential for DMD and related conditions, either as a
self-contained therapy or as an adjuvant with other potential treatments,
including gene, cell and pharmacological therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10980 
PMID: 22495301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10906.

A gigantic feathered dinosaur from the lower cretaceous of China.

Xu X(1), Wang K, Zhang K, Ma Q, Xing L, Sullivan C, Hu D, Cheng S, Wang S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Key Laboratory of 
Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 142 Xiwai
Street, Beijing 100044, China. xingxu@vip.sina.com

Numerous feathered dinosaur specimens have recently been recovered from the
Middle-Upper Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous deposits of northeastern China, but
most of them represent small animals. Here we report the discovery of a gigantic 
new basal tyrannosauroid, Yutyrannus huali gen. et sp. nov., based on three
nearly complete skeletons representing two distinct ontogenetic stages from the
Lower Cretaceous Yixian Formation of Liaoning Province, China. Y. huali shares
some features, particularly of the cranium, with derived tyrannosauroids, but is 
similar to other basal tyrannosauroids in possessing a three-fingered manus and a
typical theropod pes. Morphometric analysis suggests that Y. huali differed from 
tyrannosaurids in its growth strategy. Most significantly, Y. huali bears long
filamentous feathers, thus providing direct evidence for the presence of
extensively feathered gigantic dinosaurs and offering new insights into early
feather evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10906 
PMID: 22481363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10929.

Past extreme warming events linked to massive carbon release from thawing
permafrost.

DeConto RM(1), Galeotti S, Pagani M, Tracy D, Schaefer K, Zhang T, Pollard D,
Beerling DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geosciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts
01002, USA. deconto@geo.umass.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Oct 11;490(7419):292.

Between about 55.5 and 52 million years ago, Earth experienced a series of sudden
and extreme global warming events (hyperthermals) superimposed on a long-term
warming trend. The first and largest of these events, the Palaeocene-Eocene
Thermal Maximum (PETM), is characterized by a massive input of carbon, ocean
acidification and an increase in global temperature of about 5 °C within a few
thousand years. Although various explanations for the PETM have been proposed, a 
satisfactory model that accounts for the source, magnitude and timing of carbon
release at the PETM and successive hyperthermals remains elusive. Here we use a
new astronomically calibrated cyclostratigraphic record from central Italy to
show that the Early Eocene hyperthermals occurred during orbits with a
combination of high eccentricity and high obliquity. Corresponding
climate-ecosystem-soil simulations accounting for rising concentrations of
background greenhouse gases and orbital forcing show that the magnitude and
timing of the PETM and subsequent hyperthermals can be explained by the orbitally
triggered decomposition of soil organic carbon in circum-Arctic and Antarctic
terrestrial permafrost. This massive carbon reservoir had the potential to
repeatedly release thousands of petagrams (10(15) grams) of carbon to the
atmosphere-ocean system, once a long-term warming threshold had been reached just
before the PETM. Replenishment of permafrost soil carbon stocks following peak
warming probably contributed to the rapid recovery from each event, while
providing a sensitive carbon reservoir for the next hyperthermal. As background
temperatures continued to rise following the PETM, the areal extent of permafrost
steadily declined, resulting in an incrementally smaller available carbon pool
and smaller hyperthermals at each successive orbital forcing maximum. A mechanism
linking Earth's orbital properties with release of soil carbon from permafrost
provides a unifying model accounting for the salient features of the
hyperthermals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10929 
PMID: 22481362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):82-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10900.

Decoherence-protected quantum gates for a hybrid solid-state spin register.

van der Sar T(1), Wang ZH, Blok MS, Bernien H, Taminiau TH, Toyli DM, Lidar DA,
Awschalom DD, Hanson R, Dobrovitski VV.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute of Nanoscience, Delft University of Technology, PO Box 5046,
2600 GA Delft, The Netherlands.

Protecting the dynamics of coupled quantum systems from decoherence by the
environment is a key challenge for solid-state quantum information processing. An
idle quantum bit (qubit) can be efficiently insulated from the outside world by
dynamical decoupling, as has recently been demonstrated for individual
solid-state qubits. However, protecting qubit coherence during a multi-qubit gate
is a non-trivial problem: in general, the decoupling disrupts the interqubit
dynamics and hence conflicts with gate operation. This problem is particularly
salient for hybrid systems, in which different types of qubit evolve and decohere
at very different rates. Here we present the integration of dynamical decoupling 
into quantum gates for a standard hybrid system, the electron-nuclear spin
register. Our design harnesses the internal resonance in the coupled-spin system 
to resolve the conflict between gate operation and decoupling. We experimentally 
demonstrate these gates using a two-qubit register in diamond operating at room
temperature. Quantum tomography reveals that the qubits involved in the gate
operation are protected as accurately as idle qubits. We also perform Grover's
quantum search algorithm, and achieve fidelities of more than 90% even though the
algorithm run-time exceeds the electron spin dephasing time by two orders of
magnitude. Our results directly allow decoherence-protected interface gates
between different types of solid-state qubit. Ultimately, quantum gates with
integrated decoupling may reach the accuracy threshold for fault-tolerant quantum
information processing with solid-state devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10900 
PMID: 22481361 


673. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10920.

A steady-state superradiant laser with less than one intracavity photon.

Bohnet JG(1), Chen Z, Weiner JM, Meiser D, Holland MJ, Thompson JK.

Author information: 
(1)JILA, NIST and University of Colorado, Department of Physics, University of
Colorado, 440 UCB, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):43-4.

The spectral purity of an oscillator is central to many applications, such as
detecting gravity waves, defining the second, ground-state cooling and quantum
manipulation of nanomechanical objects, and quantum computation. Recent proposals
suggest that laser oscillators which use very narrow optical transitions in atoms
can be orders of magnitude more spectrally pure than present lasers. Lasers of
this high spectral purity are predicted to operate deep in the 'bad-cavity', or
superradiant, regime, where the bare atomic linewidth is much less than the
cavity linewidth. Here we demonstrate a Raman superradiant laser source in which 
spontaneous synchronization of more than one million rubidium-87 atomic dipoles
is continuously sustained by less than 0.2 photons on average inside the optical 
cavity. By operating at low intracavity photon number, we demonstrate isolation
of the collective atomic dipole from the environment by a factor of more than ten
thousand, as characterized by cavity frequency pulling measurements. The emitted 
light has a frequency linewidth, measured relative to the Raman dressing laser,
that is less than that of single-particle decoherence linewidths and more than
ten thousand times less than the quantum linewidth limit typically applied to
'good-cavity' optical lasers, for which the cavity linewidth is much less than
the atomic linewidth. These results demonstrate several key predictions for
future superradiant lasers, which could be used to improve the stability of
passive atomic clocks and which may lead to new searches for physics beyond the
standard model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10920 
PMID: 22481360 


674. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):75-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10966.

RR-Lyrae-type pulsations from a 0.26-solar-mass star in a binary system.

Pietrzyński G(1), Thompson IB, Gieren W, Graczyk D, Stępień K, Bono G, Moroni PG,
Pilecki B, Udalski A, Soszyński I, Preston GW, Nardetto N, McWilliam A, Roederer 
IU, Górski M, Konorski P, Storm J.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Astronomìa, Universidad de Concepción, Casilla 160-C,
Concepciòn, Chile. pietrzyn@astrouw.edu.pl

RR Lyrae pulsating stars have been extensively used as tracers of old stellar
populations for the purpose of determining the ages of galaxies, and as tools to 
measure distances to nearby galaxies. There was accordingly considerable interest
when the RR Lyrae star OGLE-BLG-RRLYR-02792 (referred to here as RRLYR-02792) was
found to be a member of an eclipsing binary system, because the mass of the
pulsator (hitherto constrained only by models) could be unambiguously determined.
Here we report that RRLYR-02792 has a mass of 0.26 solar masses M[symbol see
text] and therefore cannot be a classical RR Lyrae star. Using models, we find
that its properties are best explained by the evolution of a close binary system 
that started with M[symbol see text] and 0.8M[symbol see text]stars orbiting each
other with an initial period of 2.9 days. Mass exchange over 5.4 billion years
produced the observed system, which is now in a very short-lived phase where the 
physical properties of the pulsator happen to place it in the same instability
strip of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram as that occupied by RR Lyrae stars. We
estimate that only 0.2 per cent of RR Lyrae stars may be contaminated by systems 
similar to this one, which implies that distances measured with RR Lyrae stars
should not be significantly affected by these binary interlopers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10966 
PMID: 22481359 


675. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):55-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10944.

The genomic basis of adaptive evolution in threespine sticklebacks.

Jones FC(1), Grabherr MG, Chan YF, Russell P, Mauceli E, Johnson J, Swofford R,
Pirun M, Zody MC, White S, Birney E, Searle S, Schmutz J, Grimwood J, Dickson MC,
Myers RM, Miller CT, Summers BR, Knecht AK, Brady SD, Zhang H, Pollen AA, Howes
T, Amemiya C; Broad Institute Genome Sequencing Platform & Whole Genome Assembly 
Team, Baldwin J, Bloom T, Jaffe DB, Nicol R, Wilkinson J, Lander ES, Di Palma F, 
Lindblad-Toh K, Kingsley DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Beckman Center B300, Stanford University 
School of Medicine, Stanford California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):46-7.

Marine stickleback fish have colonized and adapted to thousands of streams and
lakes formed since the last ice age, providing an exceptional opportunity to
characterize genomic mechanisms underlying repeated ecological adaptation in
nature. Here we develop a high-quality reference genome assembly for threespine
sticklebacks. By sequencing the genomes of twenty additional individuals from a
global set of marine and freshwater populations, we identify a genome-wide set of
loci that are consistently associated with marine-freshwater divergence. Our
results indicate that reuse of globally shared standing genetic variation,
including chromosomal inversions, has an important role in repeated evolution of 
distinct marine and freshwater sticklebacks, and in the maintenance of divergent 
ecotypes during early stages of reproductive isolation. Both coding and
regulatory changes occur in the set of loci underlying marine-freshwater
evolution, but regulatory changes appear to predominate in this well known
example of repeated adaptive evolution in nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10944 
PMCID: PMC3322419
PMID: 22481358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2012 Apr 4;484(7392):49-54. doi: 10.1038/nature10915.

Global warming preceded by increasing carbon dioxide concentrations during the
last deglaciation.

Shakun JD(1), Clark PU, He F, Marcott SA, Mix AC, Liu Z, Otto-Bliesner B,
Schmittner A, Bard E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA. shakun@fas.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):41-2.

The covariation of carbon dioxide (CO(2)) concentration and temperature in
Antarctic ice-core records suggests a close link between CO(2) and climate during
the Pleistocene ice ages. The role and relative importance of CO(2) in producing 
these climate changes remains unclear, however, in part because the ice-core
deuterium record reflects local rather than global temperature. Here we construct
a record of global surface temperature from 80 proxy records and show that
temperature is correlated with and generally lags CO(2) during the last (that is,
the most recent) deglaciation. Differences between the respective temperature
changes of the Northern Hemisphere and Southern Hemisphere parallel variations in
the strength of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation recorded in
marine sediments. These observations, together with transient global climate
model simulations, support the conclusion that an antiphased hemispheric
temperature response to ocean circulation changes superimposed on globally
in-phase warming driven by increasing CO(2) concentrations is an explanation for 
much of the temperature change at the end of the most recent ice age.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10915 
PMID: 22481357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Nature. 2012 Mar 29;485(7396):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11048.

Regulation of circadian behaviour and metabolism by REV-ERB-α and REV-ERB-β.

Cho H(1), Zhao X, Hatori M, Yu RT, Barish GD, Lam MT, Chong LW, DiTacchio L,
Atkins AR, Glass CK, Liddle C, Auwerx J, Downes M, Panda S, Evans RM.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):45-6.
    Cell Metab. 2012 Jun 6;15(6):791-3.

The circadian clock acts at the genomic level to coordinate internal behavioural 
and physiological rhythms via the CLOCK-BMAL1 transcriptional heterodimer.
Although the nuclear receptors REV-ERB-α and REV-ERB-β have been proposed to form
an accessory feedback loop that contributes to clock function, their precise
roles and importance remain unresolved. To establish their regulatory potential, 
we determined the genome-wide cis-acting targets (cistromes) of both REV-ERB
isoforms in murine liver, which revealed shared recognition at over 50% of their 
total DNA binding sites and extensive overlap with the master circadian regulator
BMAL1. Although REV-ERB-α has been shown to regulate Bmal1 expression directly,
our cistromic analysis reveals a more profound connection between BMAL1 and the
REV-ERB-α and REV-ERB-β genomic regulatory circuits than was previously
suspected. Genes within the intersection of the BMAL1, REV-ERB-α and REV-ERB-β
cistromes are highly enriched for both clock and metabolic functions. As
predicted by the cistromic analysis, dual depletion of Rev-erb-α and Rev-erb-β
function by creating double-knockout mice profoundly disrupted circadian
expression of core circadian clock and lipid homeostatic gene networks. As a
result, double-knockout mice show markedly altered circadian wheel-running
behaviour and deregulated lipid metabolism. These data now unite REV-ERB-α and
REV-ERB-β with PER, CRY and other components of the principal feedback loop that 
drives circadian expression and indicate a more integral mechanism for the
coordination of circadian rhythm and metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11048 
PMCID: PMC3367514
PMID: 22460952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Nature. 2012 Mar 29;485(7396):62-8. doi: 10.1038/nature11030.

Regulation of circadian behaviour and metabolism by synthetic REV-ERB agonists.

Solt LA(1), Wang Y, Banerjee S, Hughes T, Kojetin DJ, Lundasen T, Shin Y, Liu J, 
Cameron MD, Noel R, Yoo SH, Takahashi JS, Butler AA, Kamenecka TM, Burris TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Therapeutics, The Scripps Research Institute, Jupiter,
Florida 33458, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):45-6.

Synchronizing rhythms of behaviour and metabolic processes is important for
cardiovascular health and preventing metabolic diseases. The nuclear receptors
REV-ERB-α and REV-ERB-β have an integral role in regulating the expression of
core clock proteins driving rhythms in activity and metabolism. Here we describe 
the identification of potent synthetic REV-ERB agonists with in vivo activity.
Administration of synthetic REV-ERB ligands alters circadian behaviour and the
circadian pattern of core clock gene expression in the hypothalami of mice. The
circadian pattern of expression of an array of metabolic genes in the liver,
skeletal muscle and adipose tissue was also altered, resulting in increased
energy expenditure. Treatment of diet-induced obese mice with a REV-ERB agonist
decreased obesity by reducing fat mass and markedly improving dyslipidaemia and
hyperglycaemia. These results indicate that synthetic REV-ERB ligands that
pharmacologically target the circadian rhythm may be beneficial in the treatment 
of sleep disorders as well as metabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11030 
PMCID: PMC3343186
PMID: 22460951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):608-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10927.

Deregulated MYC expression induces dependence upon AMPK-related kinase 5.

Liu L(1), Ulbrich J, Müller J, Wüstefeld T, Aeberhard L, Kress TR, Muthalagu N,
Rycak L, Rudalska R, Moll R, Kempa S, Zender L, Eilers M, Murphy DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Theodor Boveri Institute, Biocenter, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland, 97074
Würzburg, Germany.

Deregulated expression of the MYC oncoprotein contributes to the genesis of many 
human tumours, yet strategies to exploit this for a rational tumour therapy are
scarce. MYC promotes cell growth and proliferation, and alters cellular
metabolism to enhance the provision of precursors for phospholipids and cellular 
macromolecules. Here we show in human and murine cell lines that oncogenic levels
of MYC establish a dependence on AMPK-related kinase 5 (ARK5; also known as
NUAK1) for maintaining metabolic homeostasis and for cell survival. ARK5 is an
upstream regulator of AMPK and limits protein synthesis via inhibition of the
mammalian target of rapamycin 1 (mTORC1) signalling pathway. ARK5 also maintains 
expression of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes and respiratory capacity,
which is required for efficient glutamine metabolism. Inhibition of ARK5 leads to
a collapse of cellular ATP levels in cells expressing deregulated MYC, inducing
multiple pro-apoptotic responses as a secondary consequence. Depletion of ARK5
prolongs survival in MYC-driven mouse models of hepatocellular carcinoma,
demonstrating that targeting cellular energy homeostasis is a valid therapeutic
strategy to eliminate tumour cells that express deregulated MYC.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10927 
PMID: 22460906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):603-7. doi: 10.1038/nature11003.

The Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia enables predictive modelling of anticancer drug
sensitivity.

Barretina J(1), Caponigro G, Stransky N, Venkatesan K, Margolin AA, Kim S, Wilson
CJ, Lehár J, Kryukov GV, Sonkin D, Reddy A, Liu M, Murray L, Berger MF, Monahan
JE, Morais P, Meltzer J, Korejwa A, Jané-Valbuena J, Mapa FA, Thibault J,
Bric-Furlong E, Raman P, Shipway A, Engels IH, Cheng J, Yu GK, Yu J, Aspesi P Jr,
de Silva M, Jagtap K, Jones MD, Wang L, Hatton C, Palescandolo E, Gupta S, Mahan 
S, Sougnez C, Onofrio RC, Liefeld T, MacConaill L, Winckler W, Reich M, Li N,
Mesirov JP, Gabriel SB, Getz G, Ardlie K, Chan V, Myer VE, Weber BL, Porter J,
Warmuth M, Finan P, Harris JL, Meyerson M, Golub TR, Morrissey MP, Sellers WR,
Schlegel R, Garraway LA.

Author information: 
(1)The Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):290.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 29;483(7391):544-5.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 May;9(5):249.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 May;13(5):300.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 May;12(5):315.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 May;11(5):353.

The systematic translation of cancer genomic data into knowledge of tumour
biology and therapeutic possibilities remains challenging. Such efforts should be
greatly aided by robust preclinical model systems that reflect the genomic
diversity of human cancers and for which detailed genetic and pharmacological
annotation is available. Here we describe the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia
(CCLE): a compilation of gene expression, chromosomal copy number and massively
parallel sequencing data from 947 human cancer cell lines. When coupled with
pharmacological profiles for 24 anticancer drugs across 479 of the cell lines,
this collection allowed identification of genetic, lineage, and
gene-expression-based predictors of drug sensitivity. In addition to known
predictors, we found that plasma cell lineage correlated with sensitivity to IGF1
receptor inhibitors; AHR expression was associated with MEK inhibitor efficacy in
NRAS-mutant lines; and SLFN11 expression predicted sensitivity to topoisomerase
inhibitors. Together, our results indicate that large, annotated cell-line
collections may help to enable preclinical stratification schemata for anticancer
agents. The generation of genetic predictions of drug response in the preclinical
setting and their incorporation into cancer clinical trial design could speed the
emergence of 'personalized' therapeutic regimens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11003 
PMCID: PMC3320027
PMID: 22460905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):580-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10864.

Experimental observation of electron-hole recollisions.

Zaks B(1), Liu RB, Sherwin MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California at Santa Barbara, Santa
Barbara, California 93106, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 29;483(7391):545-6.

An intense laser field can remove an electron from an atom or molecule and pull
the electron into a large-amplitude oscillation in which it repeatedly collides
with the charged core it left behind. Such recollisions result in the emission of
very energetic photons by means of high-order-harmonic generation, which has been
observed in atomic and molecular gases as well as in a bulk crystal. An exciton
is an atom-like excitation of a solid in which an electron that is excited from
the valence band is bound by the Coulomb interaction to the hole it left behind. 
It has been predicted that recollisions between electrons and holes in excitons
will result in a new phenomenon: high-order-sideband generation. In this process,
excitons are created by a weak near-infrared laser of frequency f(NIR). An
intense laser field at a much lower frequency, f(THz), then removes the electron 
from the exciton and causes it to recollide with the resulting hole. New emission
is predicted to occur as sidebands of frequency f(NIR) + 2nf(THz), where n is an 
integer that can be much greater than one. Here we report the observation of
high-order-sideband generation in semiconductor quantum wells. Sidebands are
observed up to eighteenth order (+18f(THz), or n = 9). The intensity of the
high-order sidebands decays only weakly with increasing sideband order,
confirming the non-perturbative nature of the effect. Sidebands are strongest for
linearly polarized terahertz radiation and vanish when the terahertz radiation is
circularly polarized. Beyond their fundamental scientific significance, our
results suggest a new mechanism for the ultrafast modulation of light, which has 
potential applications in terabit-rate optical communications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10864 
PMID: 22460904 


682. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):576-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10919.

Observation of a roton collective mode in a two-dimensional Fermi liquid.

Godfrin H(1), Meschke M, Lauter HJ, Sultan A, Böhm HM, Krotscheck E, Panholzer M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Néel, CNRS et Université Joseph Fourier, BP 166, 38042 Grenoble Cedex
9, France. henri.godfrin@grenoble.cnrs.fr

Understanding the dynamics of correlated many-body quantum systems is a challenge
for modern physics. Owing to the simplicity of their Hamiltonians, (4)He (bosons)
and (3)He (fermions) have served as model systems for strongly interacting
quantum fluids, with substantial efforts devoted to their understanding. An
important milestone was the direct observation of the collective phonon-roton
mode in liquid (4)He by neutron scattering, verifying Landau's prediction and his
fruitful concept of elementary excitations. In a Fermi system, collective density
fluctuations (known as 'zero-sound' in (3)He, and 'plasmons' in charged systems) 
and incoherent particle-hole excitations are observed. At small wavevectors and
energies, both types of excitation are described by Landau's theory of Fermi
liquids. At higher wavevectors, the collective mode enters the particle-hole
band, where it is strongly damped. The dynamics of Fermi liquids at high
wavevectors was thus believed to be essentially incoherent. Here we report
inelastic neutron scattering measurements of a monolayer of liquid (3)He,
observing a roton-like excitation. We find that the collective density mode
reappears as a well defined excitation at momentum transfers larger than twice
the Fermi momentum. We thus observe unexpected collective behaviour of a Fermi
many-body system in the regime beyond the scope of Landau's theory. A
satisfactory interpretation of the measured spectra is obtained using a dynamic
many-body theory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10919 
PMID: 22460903 


683. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):570-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11005.

Systematic identification of genomic markers of drug sensitivity in cancer cells.

Garnett MJ(1), Edelman EJ, Heidorn SJ, Greenman CD, Dastur A, Lau KW, Greninger
P, Thompson IR, Luo X, Soares J, Liu Q, Iorio F, Surdez D, Chen L, Milano RJ,
Bignell GR, Tam AT, Davies H, Stevenson JA, Barthorpe S, Lutz SR, Kogera F,
Lawrence K, McLaren-Douglas A, Mitropoulos X, Mironenko T, Thi H, Richardson L,
Zhou W, Jewitt F, Zhang T, O'Brien P, Boisvert JL, Price S, Hur W, Yang W, Deng
X, Butler A, Choi HG, Chang JW, Baselga J, Stamenkovic I, Engelman JA, Sharma SV,
Delattre O, Saez-Rodriguez J, Gray NS, Settleman J, Futreal PA, Haber DA,
Stratton MR, Ramaswamy S, McDermott U, Benes CH.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 29;483(7391):544-5.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 May;9(5):249.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 May;13(5):300.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 May;12(5):315.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 May;11(5):353.

Clinical responses to anticancer therapies are often restricted to a subset of
patients. In some cases, mutated cancer genes are potent biomarkers for responses
to targeted agents. Here, to uncover new biomarkers of sensitivity and resistance
to cancer therapeutics, we screened a panel of several hundred cancer cell
lines--which represent much of the tissue-type and genetic diversity of human
cancers--with 130 drugs under clinical and preclinical investigation. In
aggregate, we found that mutated cancer genes were associated with cellular
response to most currently available cancer drugs. Classic oncogene addiction
paradigms were modified by additional tissue-specific or expression biomarkers,
and some frequently mutated genes were associated with sensitivity to a broad
range of therapeutic agents. Unexpected relationships were revealed, including
the marked sensitivity of Ewing's sarcoma cells harbouring the EWS (also known as
EWSR1)-FLI1 gene translocation to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. 
By linking drug activity to the functional complexity of cancer genomes,
systematic pharmacogenomic profiling in cancer cell lines provides a powerful
biomarker discovery platform to guide rational cancer therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11005 
PMCID: PMC3349233
PMID: 22460902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):565-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10922.

A new hominin foot from Ethiopia shows multiple Pliocene bipedal adaptations.

Haile-Selassie Y(1), Saylor BZ, Deino A, Levin NE, Alene M, Latimer BM.

Author information: 
(1)The Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.
yhailese@cmnh.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 29;483(7391):550-1.

A newly discovered partial hominin foot skeleton from eastern Africa indicates
the presence of more than one hominin locomotor adaptation at the beginning of
the Late Pliocene epoch. Here we show that new pedal elements, dated to about 3.4
million years ago, belong to a species that does not match the contemporaneous
Australopithecus afarensis in its morphology and inferred locomotor adaptations, 
but instead are more similar to the earlier Ardipithecus ramidus in possessing an
opposable great toe. This not only indicates the presence of more than one
hominin species at the beginning of the Late Pliocene of eastern Africa, but also
indicates the persistence of a species with Ar. ramidus-like locomotor adaptation
into the Late Pliocene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10922 
PMID: 22460901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):559-64. doi: 10.1038/nature10902.

Ice-sheet collapse and sea-level rise at the Bølling warming 14,600 years ago.

Deschamps P(1), Durand N, Bard E, Hamelin B, Camoin G, Thomas AL, Henderson GM,
Okuno J, Yokoyama Y.

Author information: 
(1)CEREGE, UMR Aix-Marseille Université - CNRS - IRD - College de France,
Technopole de l'Arbois, BP 80, 13545 Aix-en-Provence Cedex 4, France.
deschamps@cerege.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 29;483(7391):549-50.

Past sea-level records provide invaluable information about the response of ice
sheets to climate forcing. Some such records suggest that the last deglaciation
was punctuated by a dramatic period of sea-level rise, of about 20 metres, in
less than 500 years. Controversy about the amplitude and timing of this meltwater
pulse (MWP-1A) has, however, led to uncertainty about the source of the melt
water and its temporal and causal relationships with the abrupt climate changes
of the deglaciation. Here we show that MWP-1A started no earlier than 14,650
years ago and ended before 14,310 years ago, making it coeval with the Bølling
warming. Our results, based on corals drilled offshore from Tahiti during
Integrated Ocean Drilling Project Expedition 310, reveal that the increase in sea
level at Tahiti was between 12 and 22 metres, with a most probable value between 
14 and 18 metres, establishing a significant meltwater contribution from the
Southern Hemisphere. This implies that the rate of eustatic sea-level rise
exceeded 40 millimetres per year during MWP-1A.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10902 
PMID: 22460900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;483(7391):553-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10901.

Evidence against a chondritic Earth.

Campbell IH(1), O'Neill HS.

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Earth Science, Australian National University, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia. Ian.Campbell@anu.edu.au

The (142)Nd/(144)Nd ratio of the Earth is greater than the solar ratio as
inferred from chondritic meteorites, which challenges a fundamental assumption of
modern geochemistry--that the composition of the silicate Earth is 'chondritic', 
meaning that it has refractory element ratios identical to those found in
chondrites. The popular explanation for this and other paradoxes of mantle
geochemistry, a hidden layer deep in the mantle enriched in incompatible
elements, is inconsistent with the heat flux carried by mantle plumes. Either the
matter from which the Earth formed was not chondritic, or the Earth has lost
matter by collisional erosion in the later stages of planet formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10901 
PMID: 22460899 


687. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;484(7394):339-44. doi: 10.1038/nature10960.

A unique regulatory phase of DNA methylation in the early mammalian embryo.

Smith ZD(1), Chan MM, Mikkelsen TS, Gu H, Gnirke A, Regev A, Meissner A.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 May 4;10(5):487-9.

DNA methylation is highly dynamic during mammalian embryogenesis. It is broadly
accepted that the paternal genome is actively depleted of 5-methylcytosine at
fertilization, followed by passive loss that reaches a minimum at the blastocyst 
stage. However, this model is based on limited data, and so far no
base-resolution maps exist to support and refine it. Here we generate
genome-scale DNA methylation maps in mouse gametes and from the zygote through
post-implantation. We find that the oocyte already exhibits global
hypomethylation, particularly at specific families of long interspersed element 1
and long terminal repeat retroelements, which are disparately methylated between 
gametes and have lower methylation values in the zygote than in sperm.
Surprisingly, the oocyte contributes a unique set of differentially methylated
regions (DMRs)--including many CpG island promoters--that are maintained in the
early embryo but are lost upon specification and absent from somatic cells. In
contrast, sperm-contributed DMRs are largely intergenic and become
hypermethylated after the blastocyst stage. Our data provide a genome-scale,
base-resolution timeline of DNA methylation in the pre-specified embryo, when
this epigenetic modification is most dynamic, before returning to the canonical
somatic pattern.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10960 
PMCID: PMC3331945
PMID: 22456710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;484(7394):399-403. doi: 10.1038/nature10963.

Crystal structure of a membrane-embedded H+-translocating pyrophosphatase.

Lin SM(1), Tsai JY, Hsiao CD, Huang YT, Chiu CL, Liu MH, Tung JY, Liu TH, Pan RL,
Sun YJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science and Institute of Bioinformatics and Structural
Biology, College of Life Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013,
Taiwan.

H(+)-translocating pyrophosphatases (H(+)-PPases) are active proton transporters 
that establish a proton gradient across the endomembrane by means of
pyrophosphate (PP(i)) hydrolysis. H(+)-PPases are found primarily as homodimers
in the vacuolar membrane of plants and the plasma membrane of several protozoa
and prokaryotes. The three-dimensional structure and detailed mechanisms
underlying the enzymatic and proton translocation reactions of H(+)-PPases are
unclear. Here we report the crystal structure of a Vigna radiata H(+)-PPase
(VrH(+)-PPase) in complex with a non-hydrolysable substrate analogue,
imidodiphosphate (IDP), at 2.35 Å resolution. Each VrH(+)-PPase subunit consists 
of an integral membrane domain formed by 16 transmembrane helices. IDP is bound
in the cytosolic region of each subunit and trapped by numerous charged residues 
and five Mg(2+) ions. A previously undescribed proton translocation pathway is
formed by six core transmembrane helices. Proton pumping can be initialized by
PP(i) hydrolysis, and H(+) is then transported into the vacuolar lumen through a 
pathway consisting of Arg 242, Asp 294, Lys 742 and Glu 301. We propose a working
model of the mechanism for the coupling between proton pumping and PP(i)
hydrolysis by H(+)-PPases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10963 
PMID: 22456709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;484(7394):376-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10959.

Local generation of glia is a major astrocyte source in postnatal cortex.

Ge WP(1), Miyawaki A, Gage FH, Jan YN, Jan LY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Physiology, University of
California at San Francisco, 1550 4th Street, San Francisco, California 94158,
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 May;13(5):290.

Glial cells constitute nearly 50% of the cells in the human brain. Astrocytes,
which make up the largest glial population, are crucial to the regulation of
synaptic connectivity during postnatal development. Because defects in astrocyte 
generation are associated with severe neurological disorders such as brain
tumours, it is important to understand how astrocytes are produced. Astrocytes
reportedly arise from two sources: radial glia in the ventricular zone and
progenitors in the subventricular zone, with the contribution from each region
shifting with time. During the first three weeks of postnatal development, the
glial cell population, which contains predominantly astrocytes, expands 6-8-fold 
in the rodent brain. Little is known about the mechanisms underlying this
expansion. Here we show that a major source of glia in the postnatal cortex in
mice is the local proliferation of differentiated astrocytes. Unlike glial
progenitors in the subventricular zone, differentiated astrocytes undergo
symmetric division, and their progeny integrate functionally into the existing
glial network as mature astrocytes that form endfeet with blood vessels, couple
electrically to neighbouring astrocytes, and take up glutamate after neuronal
activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10959 
PMCID: PMC3777276
PMID: 22456708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;484(7394):390-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10938.

Differential positioning of adherens junctions is associated with initiation of
epithelial folding.

Wang YC(1), Khan Z, Kaschube M, Wieschaus EF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2012 May 15;22(5):907-8.

During tissue morphogenesis, simple epithelial sheets undergo folding to form
complex structures. The prevailing model underlying epithelial folding involves
cell shape changes driven by myosin-dependent apical constriction. Here we
describe an alternative mechanism that requires differential positioning of
adherens junctions controlled by modulation of epithelial apical-basal polarity. 
Using live embryo imaging, we show that before the initiation of dorsal
transverse folds during Drosophila gastrulation, adherens junctions shift basally
in the initiating cells, but maintain their original subapical positioning in the
neighbouring cells. Junctional positioning in the dorsal epithelium depends on
the polarity proteins Bazooka and Par-1. In particular, the basal shift that
occurs in the initiating cells is associated with a progressive decrease in Par-1
levels. We show that uniform reduction of the activity of Bazooka or Par-1
results in uniform apical or lateral positioning of junctions and in each case
dorsal fold initiation is abolished. In addition, an increase in the
Bazooka/Par-1 ratio causes formation of ectopic dorsal folds. The basal shift of 
junctions not only alters the apical shape of the initiating cells, but also
forces the lateral membrane of the adjacent cells to bend towards the initiating 
cells, thereby facilitating tissue deformation. Our data thus establish a direct 
link between modification of epithelial polarity and initiation of epithelial
folding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10938 
PMCID: PMC3597240
PMID: 22456706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;484(7395):538-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10965.

The anti-Shine-Dalgarno sequence drives translational pausing and codon choice in
bacteria.

Li GW(1), Oh E, Weissman JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Jun;10(6):375.

Protein synthesis by ribosomes takes place on a linear substrate but at
non-uniform speeds. Transient pausing of ribosomes can affect a variety of
co-translational processes, including protein targeting and folding. These pauses
are influenced by the sequence of the messenger RNA. Thus, redundancy in the
genetic code allows the same protein to be translated at different rates.
However, our knowledge of both the position and the mechanism of translational
pausing in vivo is highly limited. Here we present a genome-wide analysis of
translational pausing in bacteria by ribosome profiling--deep sequencing of
ribosome-protected mRNA fragments. This approach enables the high-resolution
measurement of ribosome density profiles along most transcripts at unperturbed,
endogenous expression levels. Unexpectedly, we found that codons decoded by rare 
transfer RNAs do not lead to slow translation under nutrient-rich conditions.
Instead, Shine-Dalgarno-(SD)-like features within coding sequences cause
pervasive translational pausing. Using an orthogonal ribosome possessing an
altered anti-SD sequence, we show that pausing is due to hybridization between
the mRNA and 16S ribosomal RNA of the translating ribosome. In protein-coding
sequences, internal SD sequences are disfavoured, which leads to biased usage,
avoiding codons and codon pairs that resemble canonical SD sites. Our results
indicate that internal SD-like sequences are a major determinant of translation
rates and a global driving force for the coding of bacterial genomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10965 
PMCID: PMC3338875
PMID: 22456704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Nature. 2012 Mar 28;484(7394):359-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10890.

Air density 2.7 billion years ago limited to less than twice modern levels by
fossil raindrop imprints.

Som SM(1), Catling DC, Harnmeijer JP, Polivka PM, Buick R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Space Sciences and Astrobiology Program, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195-1310, USA. sanjoy.m.som@nasa.gov

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 19;484(7394):322-4.

According to the 'Faint Young Sun' paradox, during the late Archaean eon a Sun
approximately 20% dimmer warmed the early Earth such that it had liquid water and
a clement climate. Explanations for this phenomenon have invoked a denser
atmosphere that provided warmth by nitrogen pressure broadening or enhanced
greenhouse gas concentrations. Such solutions are allowed by geochemical studies 
and numerical investigations that place approximate concentration limits on
Archaean atmospheric gases, including methane, carbon dioxide and oxygen. But no 
field data constraining ground-level air density and barometric pressure have
been reported, leaving the plausibility of these various hypotheses in doubt.
Here we show that raindrop imprints in tuffs of the Ventersdorp Supergroup, South
Africa, constrain surface air density 2.7 billion years ago to less than twice
modern levels. We interpret the raindrop fossils using experiments in which water
droplets of known size fall at terminal velocity into fresh and weathered
volcanic ash, thus defining a relationship between imprint size and raindrop
impact momentum. Fragmentation following raindrop flattening limits raindrop size
to a maximum value independent of air density, whereas raindrop terminal velocity
varies as the inverse of the square root of air density. If the Archaean
raindrops reached the modern maximum measured size, air density must have been
less than 2.3 kg m(-3), compared to today's 1.2 kg m(-3), but because such drops 
rarely occur, air density was more probably below 1.3 kg m(-3). The upper
estimate for air density renders the pressure broadening explanation possible,
but it is improbable under the likely lower estimates. Our results also disallow 
the extreme CO(2) levels required for hot Archaean climates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10890 
PMID: 22456703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Nature. 2012 Mar 25;484(7395):519-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10921.

IFITM3 restricts the morbidity and mortality associated with influenza.

Everitt AR(1), Clare S, Pertel T, John SP, Wash RS, Smith SE, Chin CR, Feeley EM,
Sims JS, Adams DJ, Wise HM, Kane L, Goulding D, Digard P, Anttila V, Baillie JK, 
Walsh TS, Hume DA, Palotie A, Xue Y, Colonna V, Tyler-Smith C, Dunning J, Gordon 
SB; GenISIS Investigators; MOSAIC Investigators, Smyth RL, Openshaw PJ, Dougan G,
Brass AL, Kellam P.

Collaborators: Everingham K, Dawson H, Hope D, Ramsay P, Walsh TS, Campbell A,
Kerr S, Harrison D, Rowan K, Addison J, Donald N, Galt S, Noble D, Taylor J,
Webster N, Taylor I, Aldridge J, Dornan R, Richard C, Gilmour D, Simmons R, White
R, Jardine C, Williams D, Booth M, Quasim T, Watson V, Henry P, Munro F, Bell L, 
Ruddy J, Cole S, Southward J, Allcoat P, Gray S, McDougall M, Matheson J,
Whiteside J, Alcorn D, Rooney K, Sundaram R, Imrie G, Bruce J, McGuigan K,
Moultrie S, Cairns C, Grant J, Hughes M, Murdoch C, Davidson A, Harris G,
Paterson R, Wallis C, Binning S, Pollock M, Antonelli J, Duncan A, Gibson J,
McCulloch C, Murphy L, Haley C, Faulkner G, Freeman T, Hume DA, Baillie JK,
Chaussabel D, Adamson WE, Carman WF, Thompson C, Zambon MC, Aylin P, Ashby D,
Barclay WS, Brett SJ, Cookson WO, Drumright LN, Dunning J, Elderfield RA,
Garcia-Alvarez L, Gazzard BG, Griffiths MJ, Habibi MS, Hansel TT, Herberg JA,
Holmes AH, Hussell T, Johnston SL, Kon OM, Levin M, Moffatt MF, Nadel S, Openshaw
PJ, Warner JO, Aston SJ, Gordon SB, Hay A, McCauley J, O'Garra A, Banchereau J,
Hayward A, Kellam P, Baillie JK, Hume DA, Simmonds P, McNamara PS, Semple MG,
Smyth RL, Nguyen-Van-Tam JS, Ho LP, McMichael AJ, Kellam P.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10
1SA, UK.

The 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic showed the speed with which a novel respiratory 
virus can spread and the ability of a generally mild infection to induce severe
morbidity and mortality in a subset of the population. Recent in vitro studies
show that the interferon-inducible transmembrane (IFITM) protein family members
potently restrict the replication of multiple pathogenic viruses. Both the
magnitude and breadth of the IFITM proteins' in vitro effects suggest that they
are critical for intrinsic resistance to such viruses, including influenza
viruses. Using a knockout mouse model, we now test this hypothesis directly and
find that IFITM3 is essential for defending the host against influenza A virus in
vivo. Mice lacking Ifitm3 display fulminant viral pneumonia when challenged with 
a normally low-pathogenicity influenza virus, mirroring the destruction inflicted
by the highly pathogenic 1918 'Spanish' influenza. Similar increased viral
replication is seen in vitro, with protection rescued by the re-introduction of
Ifitm3. To test the role of IFITM3 in human influenza virus infection, we
assessed the IFITM3 alleles of individuals hospitalized with seasonal or pandemic
influenza H1N1/09 viruses. We find that a statistically significant number of
hospitalized subjects show enrichment for a minor IFITM3 allele (SNP rs12252-C)
that alters a splice acceptor site, and functional assays show the minor CC
genotype IFITM3 has reduced influenza virus restriction in vitro. Together these 
data reveal that the action of a single intrinsic immune effector, IFITM3,
profoundly alters the course of influenza virus infection in mouse and humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10921 
PMCID: PMC3648786
PMID: 22446628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Nature. 2012 Mar 25;484(7395):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10975.

Exploiting a natural conformational switch to engineer an interleukin-2
'superkine'.

Levin AM(1), Bates DL, Ring AM, Krieg C, Lin JT, Su L, Moraga I, Raeber ME,
Bowman GR, Novick P, Pande VS, Fathman CG, Boyman O, Garcia KC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 26;484(7395):463-4.

The immunostimulatory cytokine interleukin-2 (IL-2) is a growth factor for a wide
range of leukocytes, including T cells and natural killer (NK) cells.
Considerable effort has been invested in using IL-2 as a therapeutic agent for a 
variety of immune disorders ranging from AIDS to cancer. However, adverse effects
have limited its use in the clinic. On activated T cells, IL-2 signals through a 
quaternary 'high affinity' receptor complex consisting of IL-2, IL-2Rα (termed
CD25), IL-2Rβ and IL-2Rγ. Naive T cells express only a low density of IL-2Rβ and 
IL-2Rγ, and are therefore relatively insensitive to IL-2, but acquire sensitivity
after CD25 expression, which captures the cytokine and presents it to IL-2Rβ and 
IL-2Rγ. Here, using in vitro evolution, we eliminated the functional requirement 
of IL-2 for CD25 expression by engineering an IL-2 'superkine' (also called
super-2) with increased binding affinity for IL-2Rβ. Crystal structures of the
IL-2 superkine in free and receptor-bound forms showed that the evolved mutations
are principally in the core of the cytokine, and molecular dynamics simulations
indicated that the evolved mutations stabilized IL-2, reducing the flexibility of
a helix in the IL-2Rβ binding site, into an optimized receptor-binding
conformation resembling that when bound to CD25. The evolved mutations in the
IL-2 superkine recapitulated the functional role of CD25 by eliciting potent
phosphorylation of STAT5 and vigorous proliferation of T cells irrespective of
CD25 expression. Compared to IL-2, the IL-2 superkine induced superior expansion 
of cytotoxic T cells, leading to improved antitumour responses in vivo, and
elicited proportionally less expansion of T regulatory cells and reduced
pulmonary oedema. Collectively, we show that in vitro evolution has mimicked the 
functional role of CD25 in enhancing IL-2 potency and regulating target cell
specificity, which has implications for immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10975 
PMCID: PMC3338870
PMID: 22446627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Nature. 2012 Mar 25;484(7394):386-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10925.

DBIRD complex integrates alternative mRNA splicing with RNA polymerase II
transcript elongation.

Close P(1), East P, Dirac-Svejstrup AB, Hartmann H, Heron M, Maslen S, Chariot A,
Söding J, Skehel M, Svejstrup JQ.

Author information: 
(1)Mechanisms of Transcription Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, Clare Hall Laboratories, South Mimms EN6 3LD, UK.

Alternative messenger RNA splicing is the main reason that vast mammalian
proteomic complexity can be achieved with a limited number of genes. Splicing is 
physically and functionally coupled to transcription, and is greatly affected by 
the rate of transcript elongation. As the nascent pre-mRNA emerges from
transcribing RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), it is assembled into a messenger
ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) particle; this is the functional form of the nascent
pre-mRNA and determines the fate of the mature transcript. However, factors that 
connect the transcribing polymerase with the mRNP particle and help to integrate 
transcript elongation with mRNA splicing remain unclear. Here we characterize the
human interactome of chromatin-associated mRNP particles. This led us to identify
deleted in breast cancer 1 (DBC1) and ZNF326 (which we call ZNF-protein
interacting with nuclear mRNPs and DBC1 (ZIRD)) as subunits of a novel protein
complex--named DBIRD--that binds directly to RNAPII. DBIRD regulates alternative 
splicing of a large set of exons embedded in (A + T)-rich DNA, and is present at 
the affected exons. RNA-interference-mediated DBIRD depletion results in
region-specific decreases in transcript elongation, particularly across areas
encompassing affected exons. Together, these data indicate that the DBIRD complex
acts at the interface between mRNP particles and RNAPII, integrating transcript
elongation with the regulation of alternative splicing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10925 
PMCID: PMC3378035
PMID: 22446626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Nature. 2012 Mar 25;484(7393):260-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10924.

Telomerase RNA biogenesis involves sequential binding by Sm and Lsm complexes.

Tang W(1), Kannan R, Blanchette M, Baumann P.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA.

In most eukaryotes, the progressive loss of chromosome-terminal DNA sequences is 
counteracted by the enzyme telomerase, a reverse transcriptase that uses part of 
an RNA subunit as template to synthesize telomeric repeats. Many cancer cells
express high telomerase activity, and mutations in telomerase subunits are
associated with degenerative syndromes including dyskeratosis congenita and
aplastic anaemia. The therapeutic value of altering telomerase activity thus
provides ample impetus to study the biogenesis and regulation of this enzyme in
human cells and model systems. We have previously identified a precursor of the
fission yeast telomerase RNA subunit (TER1) and demonstrated that the mature
3'-end is generated by the spliceosome in a single cleavage reaction akin to the 
first step of splicing. Directly upstream and partly overlapping with the
spliceosomal cleavage site is a putative binding site for Sm proteins. Sm and
like-Sm (LSm) proteins belong to an ancient family of RNA-binding proteins
represented in all three domains of life. Members of this family form ring
complexes on specific sets of target RNAs and have critical roles in their
biogenesis, function and turnover. Here we demonstrate that the canonical Sm ring
and the Lsm2-8 complex sequentially associate with fission yeast TER1. The Sm
ring binds to the TER1 precursor, stimulates spliceosomal cleavage and promotes
the hypermethylation of the 5'-cap by Tgs1. Sm proteins are then replaced by the 
Lsm2-8 complex, which promotes the association with the catalytic subunit and
protects the mature 3'-end of TER1 from exonucleolytic degradation. Our findings 
define the sequence of events that occur during telomerase biogenesis and
characterize roles for Sm and Lsm complexes as well as for the methylase Tgs1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10924 
PMCID: PMC3326189
PMID: 22446625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Nature. 2012 Mar 22;484(7394):381-5. doi: 10.1038/nature11028.

Optogenetic stimulation of a hippocampal engram activates fear memory recall.

Liu X(1), Ramirez S, Pang PT, Puryear CB, Govindarajan A, Deisseroth K, Tonegawa 
S.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics at the Picower Institute for
Learning and Memory, Department of Biology and Department of Brain and Cognitive 
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 May;13(5):287.
    Nat Methods. 2012 May;9(5):431.

A specific memory is thought to be encoded by a sparse population of neurons.
These neurons can be tagged during learning for subsequent identification and
manipulation. Moreover, their ablation or inactivation results in reduced memory 
expression, suggesting their necessity in mnemonic processes. However, the
question of sufficiency remains: it is unclear whether it is possible to elicit
the behavioural output of a specific memory by directly activating a population
of neurons that was active during learning. Here we show in mice that optogenetic
reactivation of hippocampal neurons activated during fear conditioning is
sufficient to induce freezing behaviour. We labelled a population of hippocampal 
dentate gyrus neurons activated during fear learning with channelrhodopsin-2
(ChR2) and later optically reactivated these neurons in a different context. The 
mice showed increased freezing only upon light stimulation, indicating
light-induced fear memory recall. This freezing was not detected in
non-fear-conditioned mice expressing ChR2 in a similar proportion of cells, nor
in fear-conditioned mice with cells labelled by enhanced yellow fluorescent
protein instead of ChR2. Finally, activation of cells labelled in a context not
associated with fear did not evoke freezing in mice that were previously fear
conditioned in a different context, suggesting that light-induced fear memory
recall is context specific. Together, our findings indicate that activating a
sparse but specific ensemble of hippocampal neurons that contribute to a memory
engram is sufficient for the recall of that memory. Moreover, our experimental
approach offers a general method of mapping cellular populations bearing memory
engrams.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11028 
PMCID: PMC3331914
PMID: 22441246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;483(7390):461-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10961.

A comparative analysis of the evolution of imperfect mimicry.

Penney HD(1), Hassall C, Skevington JH, Abbott KR, Sherratt TN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel By Drive, Ottawa, K1S
5B6, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 22;483(7390):410-1.

Although exceptional examples of adaptation are frequently celebrated, some
outcomes of natural selection seem far from perfect. For example, many hoverflies
(Diptera: Syrphidae) are harmless (Batesian) mimics of stinging Hymenoptera.
However, although some hoverfly species are considered excellent mimics, other
species bear only a superficial resemblance to their models and it is unclear why
this is so. To evaluate hypotheses that have been put forward to explain
interspecific variation in the mimetic fidelity of Palearctic Syrphidae we use a 
comparative approach. We show that the most plausible explanation is that
predators impose less selection for mimetic fidelity on smaller hoverfly species 
because they are less profitable prey items. In particular, our findings, in
combination with previous results, allow us to reject several key hypotheses for 
imperfect mimicry: first, human ratings of mimetic fidelity are positively
correlated with both morphometric measures and avian rankings, indicating that
variation in mimetic fidelity is not simply an illusion based on human
perception; second, no species of syrphid maps out in multidimensional space as
being intermediate in appearance between several different hymenopteran model
species, as the multimodel hypothesis requires; and third, we find no evidence
for a negative relationship between mimetic fidelity and abundance, which calls
into question the kin-selection hypothesis. By contrast, a strong positive
relationship between mimetic fidelity and body size supports the
relaxed-selection hypothesis, suggesting that reduced predation pressure on less 
profitable prey species limits the selection for mimetic perfection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10961 
PMID: 22437614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;483(7390):448-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10874.

Large-scale vortex lattice emerging from collectively moving microtubules.

Sumino Y(1), Nagai KH, Shitaka Y, Tanaka D, Yoshikawa K, Chaté H, Oiwa K.

Author information: 
(1)Aichi University of Education, Aichi 448-8542, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 22;483(7390):411-2.

Spontaneous collective motion, as in some flocks of bird and schools of fish, is 
an example of an emergent phenomenon. Such phenomena are at present of great
interest and physicists have put forward a number of theoretical results that so 
far lack experimental verification. In animal behaviour studies, large-scale data
collection is now technologically possible, but data are still scarce and arise
from observations rather than controlled experiments. Multicellular biological
systems, such as bacterial colonies or tissues, allow more control, but may have 
many hidden variables and interactions, hindering proper tests of theoretical
ideas. However, in systems on the subcellular scale such tests may be possible,
particularly in in vitro experiments with only few purified components. Motility 
assays, in which protein filaments are driven by molecular motors grafted to a
substrate in the presence of ATP, can show collective motion for high densities
of motors and attached filaments. This was demonstrated recently for the
actomyosin system, but a complete understanding of the mechanisms at work is
still lacking. Here we report experiments in which microtubules are propelled by 
surface-bound dyneins. In this system it is possible to study the local
interaction: we find that colliding microtubules align with each other with high 
probability. At high densities, this alignment results in self-organization of
the microtubules, which are on average 15 µm long, into vortices with diameters
of around 400 µm. Inside the vortices, the microtubules circulate both clockwise 
and anticlockwise. On longer timescales, the vortices form a lattice structure.
The emergence of these structures, as verified by a mathematical model, is the
result of the smooth, reptation-like motion of single microtubules in combination
with local interactions (the nematic alignment due to collisions)--there is no
need for long-range interactions. Apart from its potential relevance to cortical 
arrays in plant cells and other biological situations, our study provides
evidence for the existence of previously unsuspected universality classes of
collective motion phenomena.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10874 
PMID: 22437613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;483(7390):444-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10934.

Electron tomography at 2.4-ångström resolution.

Scott MC(1), Chen CC, Mecklenburg M, Zhu C, Xu R, Ercius P, Dahmen U, Regan BC,
Miao J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy and California NanoSystems Institute,
University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Transmission electron microscopy is a powerful imaging tool that has found broad 
application in materials science, nanoscience and biology. With the introduction 
of aberration-corrected electron lenses, both the spatial resolution and the
image quality in transmission electron microscopy have been significantly
improved and resolution below 0.5 ångströms has been demonstrated. To reveal the 
three-dimensional (3D) structure of thin samples, electron tomography is the
method of choice, with cubic-nanometre resolution currently achievable. Discrete 
tomography has recently been used to generate a 3D atomic reconstruction of a
silver nanoparticle two to three nanometres in diameter, but this statistical
method assumes prior knowledge of the particle's lattice structure and requires
that the atoms fit rigidly on that lattice. Here we report the experimental
demonstration of a general electron tomography method that achieves atomic-scale 
resolution without initial assumptions about the sample structure. By combining a
novel projection alignment and tomographic reconstruction method with scanning
transmission electron microscopy, we have determined the 3D structure of an
approximately ten-nanometre gold nanoparticle at 2.4-ångström resolution.
Although we cannot definitively locate all of the atoms inside the nanoparticle, 
individual atoms are observed in some regions of the particle and several grains 
are identified in three dimensions. The 3D surface morphology and internal
lattice structure revealed are consistent with a distorted icosahedral multiply
twinned particle. We anticipate that this general method can be applied not only 
to determine the 3D structure of nanomaterials at atomic-scale resolution, but
also to improve the spatial resolution and image quality in other tomography
fields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10934 
PMID: 22437612 


701. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;483(7390):421-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10904.

Quantum plasmon resonances of individual metallic nanoparticles.

Scholl JA(1), Koh AL, Dionne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA. jscholl@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 22;483(7390):417-8.
    Nature. 2013 Feb 7;494(7435):E1-2.

The plasmon resonances of metallic nanoparticles have received considerable
attention for their applications in nanophotonics, biology, sensing, spectroscopy
and solar energy harvesting. Although thoroughly characterized for spheres larger
than ten nanometres in diameter, the plasmonic properties of particles in the
quantum size regime have been historically difficult to describe owing to weak
optical scattering, metal-ligand interactions, and inhomogeneity in ensemble
measurements. Such difficulties have precluded probing and controlling the
plasmonic properties of quantum-sized particles in many natural and engineered
processes, notably catalysis. Here we investigate the plasmon resonances of
individual ligand-free silver nanoparticles using aberration-corrected
transmission electron microscope (TEM) imaging and monochromated scanning TEM
electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS). This technique allows direct
correlation between a particle's geometry and its plasmon resonance. As the
nanoparticle diameter decreases from 20 nanometres to less than two nanometres,
the plasmon resonance shifts to higher energy by 0.5 electronvolts, a substantial
deviation from classical predictions. We present an analytical quantum mechanical
model that describes this shift due to a change in particle permittivity. Our
results highlight the quantum plasmonic properties of small metallic nanospheres,
with direct application to understanding and exploiting catalytically active and 
biologically relevant nanoparticles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10904 
PMID: 22437611 


702. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;485(7398):327-32. doi: 10.1038/nature10939.

Structure of the human κ-opioid receptor in complex with JDTic.

Wu H(1), Wacker D, Mileni M, Katritch V, Han GW, Vardy E, Liu W, Thompson AA,
Huang XP, Carroll FI, Mascarella SW, Westkaemper RB, Mosier PD, Roth BL, Cherezov
V, Stevens RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):314-7.

Opioid receptors mediate the actions of endogenous and exogenous opioids on many 
physiological processes, including the regulation of pain, respiratory drive,
mood, and--in the case of κ-opioid receptor (κ-OR)--dysphoria and
psychotomimesis. Here we report the crystal structure of the human κ-OR in
complex with the selective antagonist JDTic, arranged in parallel dimers, at
2.9 Å resolution. The structure reveals important features of the ligand-binding 
pocket that contribute to the high affinity and subtype selectivity of JDTic for 
the human κ-OR. Modelling of other important κ-OR-selective ligands, including
the morphinan-derived antagonists norbinaltorphimine and 5'-guanidinonaltrindole,
and the diterpene agonist salvinorin A analogue RB-64, reveals both common and
distinct features for binding these diverse chemotypes. Analysis of site-directed
mutagenesis and ligand structure-activity relationships confirms the interactions
observed in the crystal structure, thereby providing a molecular explanation for 
κ-OR subtype selectivity, and essential insights for the design of compounds with
new pharmacological properties targeting the human κ-OR.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10939 
PMCID: PMC3356457
PMID: 22437504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;484(7393):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10897.

Role of corin in trophoblast invasion and uterine spiral artery remodelling in
pregnancy.

Cui Y(1), Wang W, Dong N, Lou J, Srinivasan DK, Cheng W, Huang X, Liu M, Fang C, 
Peng J, Chen S, Wu S, Liu Z, Dong L, Zhou Y, Wu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Cardiology, Nephrology and Hypertension, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

In pregnancy, trophoblast invasion and uterine spiral artery remodelling are
important for lowering maternal vascular resistance and increasing uteroplacental
blood flow. Impaired spiral artery remodelling has been implicated in
pre-eclampsia, a major complication of pregnancy, for a long time but the
underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Corin (also known as atrial natriuretic
peptide-converting enzyme) is a cardiac protease that activates atrial
natriuretic peptide (ANP), a cardiac hormone that is important in regulating
blood pressure. Unexpectedly, corin expression was detected in the pregnant
uterus. Here we identify a new function of corin and ANP in promoting trophoblast
invasion and spiral artery remodelling. We show that pregnant corin- or
ANP-deficient mice developed high blood pressure and proteinuria, characteristics
of pre-eclampsia. In these mice, trophoblast invasion and uterine spiral artery
remodelling were markedly impaired. Consistent with this, the ANP potently
stimulated human trophoblasts in invading Matrigels. In patients with
pre-eclampsia, uterine Corin messenger RNA and protein levels were significantly 
lower than that in normal pregnancies. Moreover, we have identified Corin gene
mutations in pre-eclamptic patients, which decreased corin activity in processing
pro-ANP. These results indicate that corin and ANP are essential for
physiological changes at the maternal-fetal interface, suggesting that defects in
corin and ANP function may contribute to pre-eclampsia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10897 
PMCID: PMC3578422
PMID: 22437503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;485(7398):321-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10954.

Crystal structure of the µ-opioid receptor bound to a morphinan antagonist.

Manglik A(1), Kruse AC, Kobilka TS, Thian FS, Mathiesen JM, Sunahara RK, Pardo L,
Weis WI, Kobilka BK, Granier S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 17;485(7398):314-7.

Opium is one of the world's oldest drugs, and its derivatives morphine and
codeine are among the most used clinical drugs to relieve severe pain. These
prototypical opioids produce analgesia as well as many undesirable side effects
(sedation, apnoea and dependence) by binding to and activating the
G-protein-coupled µ-opioid receptor (µ-OR) in the central nervous system. Here we
describe the 2.8 Å crystal structure of the mouse µ-OR in complex with an
irreversible morphinan antagonist. Compared to the buried binding pocket observed
in most G-protein-coupled receptors published so far, the morphinan ligand binds 
deeply within a large solvent-exposed pocket. Of particular interest, the µ-OR
crystallizes as a two-fold symmetrical dimer through a four-helix bundle motif
formed by transmembrane segments 5 and 6. These high-resolution insights into
opioid receptor structure will enable the application of structure-based
approaches to develop better drugs for the management of pain and addiction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10954 
PMCID: PMC3523197
PMID: 22437502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;484(7393):256-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10913.

A new understanding of the decoding principle on the ribosome.

Demeshkina N(1), Jenner L, Westhof E, Yusupov M, Yusupova G.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Biologie et de Génomique Structurales, Institut de Génétique et
de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Illkirch 67400, France.

During protein synthesis, the ribosome accurately selects transfer RNAs (tRNAs)
in accordance with the messenger RNA (mRNA) triplet in the decoding centre. tRNA 
selection is initiated by elongation factor Tu, which delivers tRNA to the
aminoacyl tRNA-binding site (A site) and hydrolyses GTP upon establishing
codon-anticodon interactions in the decoding centre. At the following
proofreading step the ribosome re-examines the tRNA and rejects it if it does not
match the A codon. It was suggested that universally conserved G530, A1492 and
A1493 of 16S ribosomal RNA, critical for tRNA binding in the A site, actively
monitor cognate tRNA, and that recognition of the correct codon-anticodon duplex 
induces an overall ribosome conformational change (domain closure). Here we
propose an integrated mechanism for decoding based on six X-ray structures of the
70S ribosome determined at 3.1-3.4 Å resolution, modelling cognate or
near-cognate states of the decoding centre at the proofreading step. We show that
the 30S subunit undergoes an identical domain closure upon binding of either
cognate or near-cognate tRNA. This conformational change of the 30S subunit forms
a decoding centre that constrains the mRNA in such a way that the first two
nucleotides of the A codon are limited to form Watson-Crick base pairs. When U·G 
and G·U mismatches, generally considered to form wobble base pairs, are at the
first or second codon-anticodon position, the decoding centre forces this pair to
adopt the geometry close to that of a canonical C·G pair. This by itself, or with
distortions in the codon-anticodon mini-helix and the anticodon loop, causes the 
near-cognate tRNA to dissociate from the ribosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10913 
PMID: 22437501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;484(7393):208-13. doi: 10.1038/nature10896.

Structure of the mitotic checkpoint complex.

Chao WC(1), Kulkarni K, Zhang Z, Kong EH, Barford D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty
Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London, SW3 6JB, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Apr;13(4):210-1.

In mitosis, the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) ensures genome stability by
delaying chromosome segregation until all sister chromatids have achieved bipolar
attachment to the mitotic spindle. The SAC is imposed by the mitotic checkpoint
complex (MCC), whose assembly is catalysed by unattached chromosomes and which
binds and inhibits the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C), the E3
ubiquitin ligase that initiates chromosome segregation. Here, using the crystal
structure of Schizosaccharomyces pombe MCC (a complex of mitotic spindle assembly
checkpoint proteins Mad2, Mad3 and APC/C co-activator protein Cdc20), we reveal
the molecular basis of MCC-mediated APC/C inhibition and the regulation of MCC
assembly. The MCC inhibits the APC/C by obstructing degron recognition sites on
Cdc20 (the substrate recruitment subunit of the APC/C) and displacing Cdc20 to
disrupt formation of a bipartite D-box receptor with the APC/C subunit Apc10.
Mad2, in the closed conformation (C-Mad2), stabilizes the complex by optimally
positioning the Mad3 KEN-box degron to bind Cdc20. Mad3 and p31(comet) (also
known as MAD2L1-binding protein) compete for the same C-Mad2 interface, which
explains how p31(comet) disrupts MCC assembly to antagonize the SAC. This study
shows how APC/C inhibition is coupled to degron recognition by co-activators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10896 
PMID: 22437499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;483(7391):584-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10903.

Spontaneous coherence in a cold exciton gas.

High AA(1), Leonard JR, Hammack AT, Fogler MM, Butov LV, Kavokin AV, Campman KL, 
Gossard AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093-0319, USA. alex.high@gmail.com

If bosonic particles are cooled down below the temperature of quantum degeneracy,
they can spontaneously form a coherent state in which individual matter waves
synchronize and combine. Spontaneous coherence of matter waves forms the basis of
a number of fundamental phenomena in physics, including superconductivity,
superfluidity and Bose-Einstein condensation. Spontaneous coherence is the key
characteristic of condensation in momentum space. Excitons--bound pairs of
electrons and holes--form a model system to explore the quantum physics of cold
bosons in solids. Cold exciton gases can be realized in a system of indirect
excitons, which can cool down below the temperature of quantum degeneracy owing
to their long lifetimes. Here we report measurements of spontaneous coherence in 
a gas of indirect excitons. We found that spontaneous coherence of excitons
emerges in the region of the macroscopically ordered exciton state and in the
region of vortices of linear polarization. The coherence length in these regions 
is much larger than in a classical gas, indicating a coherent state with a much
narrower than classical exciton distribution in momentum space, characteristic of
a condensate. A pattern of extended spontaneous coherence is correlated with a
pattern of spontaneous polarization, revealing the properties of a multicomponent
coherent state. We also observed phase singularities in the coherent exciton gas.
All these phenomena emerge when the exciton gas is cooled below a few kelvin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10903 
PMID: 22437498 


708. Nature. 2012 Mar 21;484(7393):242-245. doi: 10.1038/nature10928.

Transcription factor PIF4 controls the thermosensory activation of flowering.

Kumar SV(#)(1), Lucyshyn D(#)(1), Jaeger KE(1), Alós E(1), Alvey E(1), Harberd
NP(1)(2), Wigge PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, John Innes Centre, Norwich NR4
7UH, UK.
(2)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, 
OX1 3RB, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Plant growth and development are strongly affected by small differences in
temperature. Current climate change has already altered global plant phenology
and distribution, and projected increases in temperature pose a significant
challenge to agriculture. Despite the important role of temperature on plant
development, the underlying pathways are unknown. It has previously been shown
that thermal acceleration of flowering is dependent on the florigen, FLOWERING
LOCUS T (FT). How this occurs is, however, not understood, because the major
pathway known to upregulate FT, the photoperiod pathway, is not required for
thermal acceleration of flowering. Here we demonstrate a direct mechanism by
which increasing temperature causes the bHLH transcription factor PHYTOCHROME
INTERACTING FACTOR4 (PIF4) to activate FT. Our findings provide a new
understanding of how plants control their timing of reproduction in response to
temperature. Flowering time is an important trait in crops as well as affecting
the life cycles of pollinator species. A molecular understanding of how
temperature affects flowering will be important for mitigating the effects of
climate change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10928 
PMCID: PMC4972390
PMID: 22437497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7392):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10908.

Notch-dependent VEGFR3 upregulation allows angiogenesis without VEGF-VEGFR2
signalling.

Benedito R(1), Rocha SF, Woeste M, Zamykal M, Radtke F, Casanovas O, Duarte A,
Pytowski B, Adams RH.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Biomedicine, Department of Tissue
Morphogenesis, D-48149 Münster, Germany. rui.benedito@mpi-muenster.mpg.de

Developing tissues and growing tumours produce vascular endothelial growth
factors (VEGFs), leading to the activation of the corresponding receptors in
endothelial cells. The resultant angiogenic expansion of the local vasculature
can promote physiological and pathological growth processes. Previous work has
uncovered that the VEGF and Notch pathways are tightly linked. Signalling
triggered by VEGF-A (also known as VEGF) has been shown to induce expression of
the Notch ligand DLL4 in angiogenic vessels and, most prominently, in the tip of 
endothelial sprouts. DLL4 activates Notch in adjacent cells, which suppresses the
expression of VEGF receptors and thereby restrains endothelial sprouting and
proliferation. Here we show, by using inducible loss-of-function genetics in
combination with inhibitors in vivo, that DLL4 protein expression in retinal tip 
cells is only weakly modulated by VEGFR2 signalling. Surprisingly, Notch
inhibition also had no significant impact on VEGFR2 expression and induced
deregulated endothelial sprouting and proliferation even in the absence of
VEGFR2, which is the most important VEGF-A receptor and is considered to be
indispensable for these processes. By contrast, VEGFR3, the main receptor for
VEGF-C, was strongly modulated by Notch. VEGFR3 kinase-activity inhibitors but
not ligand-blocking antibodies suppressed the sprouting of endothelial cells that
had low Notch signalling activity. Our results establish that VEGFR2 and VEGFR3
are regulated in a highly differential manner by Notch. We propose that
successful anti-angiogenic targeting of these receptors and their ligands will
strongly depend on the status of endothelial Notch signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10908 
PMID: 22426001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7393):237-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10923.

Trans-synaptic Teneurin signalling in neuromuscular synapse organization and
target choice.

Mosca TJ(1), Hong W, Dani VS, Favaloro V, Luo L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA. tmosca@stanford.edu

Synapse assembly requires trans-synaptic signals between the pre- and
postsynapse, but our understanding of the essential organizational molecules
involved in this process remains incomplete. Teneurin proteins are conserved,
epidermal growth factor (EGF)-repeat-containing transmembrane proteins with large
extracellular domains. Here we show that two Drosophila Teneurins, Ten-m and
Ten-a, are required for neuromuscular synapse organization and target selection. 
Ten-a is presynaptic whereas Ten-m is mostly postsynaptic; neuronal Ten-a and
muscle Ten-m form a complex in vivo. Pre- or postsynaptic Teneurin perturbations 
cause severe synapse loss and impair many facets of organization
trans-synaptically and cell autonomously. These include defects in active zone
apposition, release sites, membrane and vesicle organization, and synaptic
transmission. Moreover, the presynaptic microtubule and postsynaptic spectrin
cytoskeletons are severely disrupted, suggesting a mechanism whereby Teneurins
organize the cytoskeleton, which in turn affects other aspects of synapse
development. Supporting this, Ten-m physically interacts with α-Spectrin. Genetic
analyses of teneurin and neuroligin reveal that they have differential roles that
synergize to promote synapse assembly. Finally, at elevated endogenous levels,
Ten-m regulates target selection between specific motor neurons and muscles. Our 
study identifies the Teneurins as a key bi-directional trans-synaptic signal
involved in general synapse organization, and demonstrates that proteins such as 
these can also regulate target selection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10923 
PMCID: PMC3326183
PMID: 22426000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7392):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10905.

Endospore abundance, microbial growth and necromass turnover in deep sub-seafloor
sediment.

Lomstein BA(1), Langerhuus AT, D'Hondt S, Jørgensen BB, Spivack AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioscience, Section for Microbiology, Aarhus University,
Building 1540, Ny Munkegade 114, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.
bente.lomstein@biology.au.dk

Two decades of scientific ocean drilling have demonstrated widespread microbial
life in deep sub-seafloor sediment, and surprisingly high microbial-cell numbers.
Despite the ubiquity of life in the deep biosphere, the large community sizes and
the low energy fluxes in this vast buried ecosystem are not yet understood. It is
not known whether organisms of the deep biosphere are specifically adapted to
extremely low energy fluxes or whether most of the observed cells are in a
dormant, spore-like state. Here we apply a new approach--the D:L-amino-acid
model--to quantify the distributions and turnover times of living microbial
biomass, endospores and microbial necromass, as well as to determine their role
in the sub-seafloor carbon budget. The approach combines sensitive analyses of
unique bacterial markers (muramic acid and D-amino acids) and the bacterial
endospore marker, dipicolinic acid, with racemization dynamics of stereo-isomeric
amino acids. Endospores are as abundant as vegetative cells and microbial
activity is extremely low, leading to microbial biomass turnover times of
hundreds to thousands of years. We infer from model calculations that biomass
production is sustained by organic carbon deposited from the surface
photosynthetic world millions of years ago and that microbial necromass is
recycled over timescales of hundreds of thousands of years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10905 
PMID: 22425999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7392):120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10914.

MAP and kinesin-dependent nuclear positioning is required for skeletal muscle
function.

Metzger T(1), Gache V, Xu M, Cadot B, Folker ES, Richardson BE, Gomes ER, Baylies
MK.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New
York 10065, USA.

The basic unit of skeletal muscle in all metazoans is the multinucleate myofibre,
within which individual nuclei are regularly positioned. The molecular machinery 
responsible for myonuclear positioning is not known. Improperly positioned nuclei
are a hallmark of numerous diseases of muscle, including centronuclear
myopathies, but it is unclear whether correct nuclear positioning is necessary
for muscle function. Here we identify the microtubule-associated protein
ensconsin (Ens)/microtubule-associated protein 7 (MAP7) and kinesin heavy chain
(Khc)/Kif5b as essential, evolutionarily conserved regulators of myonuclear
positioning in Drosophila and cultured mammalian myotubes. We find that these
proteins interact physically and that expression of the Kif5b motor domain fused 
to the MAP7 microtubule-binding domain rescues nuclear positioning defects in
MAP7-depleted cells. This suggests that MAP7 links Kif5b to the microtubule
cytoskeleton to promote nuclear positioning. Finally, we show that myonuclear
positioning is physiologically important. Drosophila ens mutant larvae have
decreased locomotion and incorrect myonuclear positioning, and these phenotypes
are rescued by muscle-specific expression of Ens. We conclude that improper
nuclear positioning contributes to muscle dysfunction in a cell-autonomous
fashion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10914 
PMCID: PMC3321085
PMID: 22425998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7392):125-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10936.

Small-molecule inhibitors of the AAA+ ATPase motor cytoplasmic dynein.

Firestone AJ(1), Weinger JS, Maldonado M, Barlan K, Langston LD, O'Donnell M,
Gelfand VI, Kapoor TM, Chen JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The conversion of chemical energy into mechanical force by AAA+ (ATPases
associated with diverse cellular activities) ATPases is integral to cellular
processes, including DNA replication, protein unfolding, cargo transport and
membrane fusion. The AAA+ ATPase motor cytoplasmic dynein regulates ciliary
trafficking, mitotic spindle formation and organelle transport, and dissecting
its precise functions has been challenging because of its rapid timescale of
action and the lack of cell-permeable, chemical modulators. Here we describe the 
discovery of ciliobrevins, the first specific small-molecule antagonists of
cytoplasmic dynein. Ciliobrevins perturb protein trafficking within the primary
cilium, leading to their malformation and Hedgehog signalling blockade.
Ciliobrevins also prevent spindle pole focusing, kinetochore-microtubule
attachment, melanosome aggregation and peroxisome motility in cultured cells. We 
further demonstrate the ability of ciliobrevins to block dynein-dependent
microtubule gliding and ATPase activity in vitro. Ciliobrevins therefore will be 
useful reagents for studying cellular processes that require this microtubule
motor and may guide the development of additional AAA+ ATPase superfamily
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10936 
PMCID: PMC3321072
PMID: 22425997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;483(7391):613-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10937.

A murine lung cancer co-clinical trial identifies genetic modifiers of
therapeutic response.

Chen Z(1), Cheng K, Walton Z, Wang Y, Ebi H, Shimamura T, Liu Y, Tupper T, Ouyang
J, Li J, Gao P, Woo MS, Xu C, Yanagita M, Altabef A, Wang S, Lee C, Nakada Y,
Peña CG, Sun Y, Franchetti Y, Yao C, Saur A, Cameron MD, Nishino M, Hayes DN,
Wilkerson MD, Roberts PJ, Lee CB, Bardeesy N, Butaney M, Chirieac LR, Costa DB,
Jackman D, Sharpless NE, Castrillon DH, Demetri GD, Jänne PA, Pandolfi PP,
Cantley LC, Kung AL, Engelman JA, Wong KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 29;483(7391):546-8.

Targeted therapies have demonstrated efficacy against specific subsets of
molecularly defined cancers. Although most patients with lung cancer are
stratified according to a single oncogenic driver, cancers harbouring identical
activating genetic mutations show large variations in their responses to the same
targeted therapy. The biology underlying this heterogeneity is not well
understood, and the impact of co-existing genetic mutations, especially the loss 
of tumour suppressors, has not been fully explored. Here we use genetically
engineered mouse models to conduct a 'co-clinical' trial that mirrors an ongoing 
human clinical trial in patients with KRAS-mutant lung cancers. This trial aims
to determine if the MEK inhibitor selumetinib (AZD6244) increases the efficacy of
docetaxel, a standard of care chemotherapy. Our studies demonstrate that
concomitant loss of either p53 (also known as Tp53) or Lkb1 (also known as
Stk11), two clinically relevant tumour suppressors, markedly impaired the
response of Kras-mutant cancers to docetaxel monotherapy. We observed that the
addition of selumetinib provided substantial benefit for mice with lung cancer
caused by Kras and Kras and p53 mutations, but mice with Kras and Lkb1 mutations 
had primary resistance to this combination therapy. Pharmacodynamic studies,
including positron-emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT),
identified biological markers in mice and patients that provide a rationale for
the differential efficacy of these therapies in the different genotypes. These
co-clinical results identify predictive genetic biomarkers that should be
validated by interrogating samples from patients enrolled on the concurrent
clinical trial. These studies also highlight the rationale for synchronous
co-clinical trials, not only to anticipate the results of ongoing human clinical 
trials, but also to generate clinically relevant hypotheses that can inform the
analysis and design of human studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10937 
PMCID: PMC3385933
PMID: 22425996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7392):105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10907.

Wild-type microglia arrest pathology in a mouse model of Rett syndrome.

Derecki NC(1), Cronk JC, Lu Z, Xu E, Abbott SB, Guyenet PG, Kipnis J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 May;8(5):239.

Rett syndrome is an X-linked autism spectrum disorder. The disease is
characterized in most cases by mutation of the MECP2 gene, which encodes a
methyl-CpG-binding protein. Although MECP2 is expressed in many tissues, the
disease is generally attributed to a primary neuronal dysfunction. However, as
shown recently, glia, specifically astrocytes, also contribute to Rett
pathophysiology. Here we examine the role of another form of glia, microglia, in 
a murine model of Rett syndrome. Transplantation of wild-type bone marrow into
irradiation-conditioned Mecp2-null hosts resulted in engraftment of brain
parenchyma by bone-marrow-derived myeloid cells of microglial phenotype, and
arrest of disease development. However, when cranial irradiation was blocked by
lead shield, and microglial engraftment was prevented, disease was not arrested. 
Similarly, targeted expression of MECP2 in myeloid cells, driven by Lysm(cre) on 
an Mecp2-null background, markedly attenuated disease symptoms. Thus, through
multiple approaches, wild-type Mecp2-expressing microglia within the context of
an Mecp2-null male mouse arrested numerous facets of disease pathology: lifespan 
was increased, breathing patterns were normalized, apnoeas were reduced, body
weight was increased to near that of wild type, and locomotor activity was
improved. Mecp2(+/-) females also showed significant improvements as a result of 
wild-type microglial engraftment. These benefits mediated by wild-type microglia,
however, were diminished when phagocytic activity was inhibited pharmacologically
by using annexin V to block phosphatydilserine residues on apoptotic targets,
thus preventing recognition and engulfment by tissue-resident phagocytes. These
results suggest the importance of microglial phagocytic activity in Rett
syndrome. Our data implicate microglia as major players in the pathophysiology of
this devastating disorder, and suggest that bone marrow transplantation might
offer a feasible therapeutic approach for it.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10907 
PMCID: PMC3321067
PMID: 22425995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nature. 2012 Mar 18;484(7393):201-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10926.

Teneurins instruct synaptic partner matching in an olfactory map.

Hong W(1), Mosca TJ, Luo L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Neurons are interconnected with extraordinary precision to assemble a functional 
nervous system. Compared to axon guidance, far less is understood about how
individual pre- and postsynaptic partners are matched. To ensure the proper relay
of olfactory information in the fruitfly Drosophila, axons of ∼50 classes of
olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) form one-to-one connections with dendrites of
∼50 classes of projection neurons (PNs). Here, using genetic screens, we
identified two evolutionarily conserved, epidermal growth factor (EGF)-repeat
containing transmembrane Teneurin proteins, Ten-m and Ten-a, as
synaptic-partner-matching molecules between PN dendrites and ORN axons. Ten-m and
Ten-a are highly expressed in select PN-ORN matching pairs. Teneurin loss- and
gain-of-function cause specific mismatching of select ORNs and PNs. Finally,
Teneurins promote homophilic interactions in vitro, and Ten-m co-expression in
non-partner PNs and ORNs promotes their ectopic connections in vivo. We propose
that Teneurins instruct matching specificity between synaptic partners through
homophilic attraction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10926 
PMCID: PMC3345284
PMID: 22425994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7389):345-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10863.

Goblet cells deliver luminal antigen to CD103+ dendritic cells in the small
intestine.

McDole JR(1), Wheeler LW, McDonald KG, Wang B, Konjufca V, Knoop KA, Newberry RD,
Miller MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Mucosal Immunol. 2014 May;7(3):452-4.

The intestinal immune system is exposed to a mixture of foreign antigens from
diet, commensal flora and potential pathogens. Understanding how
pathogen-specific immunity is elicited while avoiding inappropriate responses to 
the background of innocuous antigens is essential for understanding and treating 
intestinal infections and inflammatory diseases. The ingestion of protein antigen
can induce oral tolerance, which is mediated in part by a subset of intestinal
dendritic cells (DCs) that promote the development of regulatory T cells. The
lamina propria (LP) underlies the expansive single-cell absorptive villous
epithelium and contains a large population of DCs (CD11c(+) CD11b(+) MHCII(+)
cells) comprised of two predominant subsets: CD103(+) CX(3)CR1(-) DCs, which
promote IgA production, imprint gut homing on lymphocytes and induce the
development of regulatory T cells, and CD103(-) CX(3)CR1(+) DCs (with features of
macrophages), which promote tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) production, colitis,
and the development of T(H)17 T cells. However, the mechanisms by which different
intestinal LP-DC subsets capture luminal antigens in vivo remains largely
unexplored. Using a minimally disruptive in vivo imaging approach we show that in
the steady state, small intestine goblet cells (GCs) function as passages
delivering low molecular weight soluble antigens from the intestinal lumen to
underlying CD103(+) LP-DCs. The preferential delivery of antigens to DCs with
tolerogenic properties implies a key role for this GC function in intestinal
immune homeostasis.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10863 
PMCID: PMC3313460
PMID: 22422267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7389):315-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10932.

Asymmetric spiroacetalization catalysed by confined Brønsted acids.

Čorić I(1), List B.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Kohlenforschung, Kaiser-Wilhelm-Platz 1, 45470 Mülheim
an der Ruhr, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):278-9.

Acetals are molecular substructures that contain two oxygen-carbon single bonds
at the same carbon atom, and are used in cells to construct carbohydrates and
numerous other molecules. A distinctive subgroup are spiroacetals, acetals
joining two rings, which occur in a broad range of biologically active compounds,
including small insect pheromones and more complex macrocycles. Despite numerous 
methods for the catalytic asymmetric formation of other commonly occurring
stereocentres, there are few approaches that exclusively target the chiral acetal
centre and none for spiroacetals. Here we report the design and synthesis of
confined Brønsted acids based on a C(2)-symmetric imidodiphosphoric acid motif,
enabling a catalytic enantioselective spiroacetalization reaction. These
rationally constructed Brønsted acids possess an extremely sterically demanding
chiral microenvironment, with a single catalytically relevant and geometrically
constrained bifunctional active site. Our catalyst design is expected to be of
broad utility in catalytic asymmetric reactions involving small and structurally 
or functionally unbiased substrates.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10932 
PMID: 22422266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7389):311-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10889.

DNA-based self-assembly of chiral plasmonic nanostructures with tailored optical 
response.

Kuzyk A(1), Schreiber R, Fan Z, Pardatscher G, Roller EM, Högele A, Simmel FC,
Govorov AO, Liedl T.

Author information: 
(1)Physik Department and ZNN/WSI, Technische Universität München, Am Coulombwall 
4a, 85748 Garching, Germany.

Matter structured on a length scale comparable to or smaller than the wavelength 
of light can exhibit unusual optical properties. Particularly promising
components for such materials are metal nanostructures, where structural
alterations provide a straightforward means of tailoring their surface plasmon
resonances and hence their interaction with light. But the top-down fabrication
of plasmonic materials with controlled optical responses in the visible spectral 
range remains challenging, because lithographic methods are limited in resolution
and in their ability to generate genuinely three-dimensional architectures.
Molecular self-assembly provides an alternative bottom-up fabrication route not
restricted by these limitations, and DNA- and peptide-directed assembly have
proved to be viable methods for the controlled arrangement of metal nanoparticles
in complex and also chiral geometries. Here we show that DNA origami enables the 
high-yield production of plasmonic structures that contain nanoparticles arranged
in nanometre-scale helices. We find, in agreement with theoretical predictions,
that the structures in solution exhibit defined circular dichroism and optical
rotatory dispersion effects at visible wavelengths that originate from the
collective plasmon-plasmon interactions of the nanoparticles positioned with an
accuracy better than two nanometres. Circular dichroism effects in the visible
part of the spectrum have been achieved by exploiting the chiral morphology of
organic molecules and the plasmonic properties of nanoparticles, or even without 
precise control over the spatial configuration of the nanoparticles. In contrast,
the optical response of our nanoparticle assemblies is rationally designed and
tunable in handedness, colour and intensity-in accordance with our theoretical
model.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10889 
PMID: 22422265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7389):306-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10941.

Designer Dirac fermions and topological phases in molecular graphene.

Gomes KK(1), Mar W, Ko W, Guinea F, Manoharan HC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):282-4.

The observation of massless Dirac fermions in monolayer graphene has generated a 
new area of science and technology seeking to harness charge carriers that behave
relativistically within solid-state materials. Both massless and massive Dirac
fermions have been studied and proposed in a growing class of Dirac materials
that includes bilayer graphene, surface states of topological insulators and
iron-based high-temperature superconductors. Because the accessibility of this
physics is predicated on the synthesis of new materials, the quest for Dirac
quasi-particles has expanded to artificial systems such as lattices comprising
ultracold atoms. Here we report the emergence of Dirac fermions in a fully
tunable condensed-matter system-molecular graphene-assembled by atomic
manipulation of carbon monoxide molecules over a conventional two-dimensional
electron system at a copper surface. Using low-temperature scanning tunnelling
microscopy and spectroscopy, we embed the symmetries underlying the
two-dimensional Dirac equation into electron lattices, and then visualize and
shape the resulting ground states. These experiments show the existence within
the system of linearly dispersing, massless quasi-particles accompanied by a
density of states characteristic of graphene. We then tune the quantum tunnelling
between lattice sites locally to adjust the phase accrual of propagating
electrons. Spatial texturing of lattice distortions produces atomically sharp p-n
and p-n-p junction devices with two-dimensional control of Dirac fermion density 
and the power to endow Dirac particles with mass. Moreover, we apply scalar and
vector potentials locally and globally to engender topologically distinct ground 
states and, ultimately, embedded gauge fields, wherein Dirac electrons react to
'pseudo' electric and magnetic fields present in their reference frame but absent
from the laboratory frame. We demonstrate that Landau levels created by these
gauge fields can be taken to the relativistic magnetic quantum limit, which has
so far been inaccessible in natural graphene. Molecular graphene provides a
versatile means of synthesizing exotic topological electronic phases in condensed
matter using tailored nanostructures.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10941 
PMID: 22422264 


721. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7389):302-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10871.

Creating, moving and merging Dirac points with a Fermi gas in a tunable honeycomb
lattice.

Tarruell L(1), Greif D, Uehlinger T, Jotzu G, Esslinger T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Electronics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):282-4.

Dirac points are central to many phenomena in condensed-matter physics, from
massless electrons in graphene to the emergence of conducting edge states in
topological insulators. At a Dirac point, two energy bands intersect linearly and
the electrons behave as relativistic Dirac fermions. In solids, the rigid
structure of the material determines the mass and velocity of the electrons, as
well as their interactions. A different, highly flexible means of studying
condensed-matter phenomena is to create model systems using ultracold atoms
trapped in the periodic potential of interfering laser beams. Here we report the 
creation of Dirac points with adjustable properties in a tunable honeycomb
optical lattice. Using momentum-resolved interband transitions, we observe a
minimum bandgap inside the Brillouin zone at the positions of the two Dirac
points. We exploit the unique tunability of our lattice potential to adjust the
effective mass of the Dirac fermions by breaking inversion symmetry. Moreover,
changing the lattice anisotropy allows us to change the positions of the Dirac
points inside the Brillouin zone. When the anisotropy exceeds a critical limit,
the two Dirac points merge and annihilate each other-a situation that has
recently attracted considerable theoretical interest but that is extremely
challenging to observe in solids. We map out this topological transition in
lattice parameter space and find excellent agreement with ab initio calculations.
Our results not only pave the way to model materials in which the topology of the
band structure is crucial, but also provide an avenue to exploring many-body
phases resulting from the interplay of complex lattice geometries with
interactions.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10871 
PMID: 22422263 


722. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7389):289-94. doi: 10.1038/nature10838.

Ancient deuterostome origins of vertebrate brain signalling centres.

Pani AM(1), Mullarkey EE, Aronowicz J, Assimacopoulos S, Grove EA, Lowe CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Evolutionary Biology, The University of Chicago, 1025 East 57th
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):280.

Neuroectodermal signalling centres induce and pattern many novel vertebrate brain
structures but are absent, or divergent, in invertebrate chordates. This has led 
to the idea that signalling-centre genetic programs were first assembled in stem 
vertebrates and potentially drove morphological innovations of the brain.
However, this scenario presumes that extant cephalochordates accurately represent
ancestral chordate characters, which has not been tested using close chordate
outgroups. Here we report that genetic programs homologous to three vertebrate
signalling centres-the anterior neural ridge, zona limitans intrathalamica and
isthmic organizer-are present in the hemichordate Saccoglossus kowalevskii.
Fgf8/17/18 (a single gene homologous to vertebrate Fgf8, Fgf17 and Fgf18),
sfrp1/5, hh and wnt1 are expressed in vertebrate-like arrangements in
hemichordate ectoderm, and homologous genetic mechanisms regulate ectodermal
patterning in both animals. We propose that these genetic programs were
components of an unexpectedly complex, ancient genetic regulatory scaffold for
deuterostome body patterning that degenerated in amphioxus and ascidians, but was
retained to pattern divergent structures in hemichordates and vertebrates.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10838 
PMCID: PMC3719855
PMID: 22422262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7390):428-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10892.

Suppression of the antiviral response by an influenza histone mimic.

Marazzi I(1), Ho JS, Kim J, Manicassamy B, Dewell S, Albrecht RA, Seibert CW,
Schaefer U, Jeffrey KL, Prinjha RK, Lee K, García-Sastre A, Roeder RG,
Tarakhovsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immune Cell Epigenetics and Signaling, The Rockefeller
University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
imarazzi@rockefeller.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 22;483(7390):416-7.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 May;10(5):312-3.

Viral infection is commonly associated with virus-driven hijacking of host
proteins. Here we describe a novel mechanism by which influenza virus affects
host cells through the interaction of influenza non-structural protein 1 (NS1)
with the infected cell epigenome. We show that the NS1 protein of influenza A
H3N2 subtype possesses a histone-like sequence (histone mimic) that is used by
the virus to target the human PAF1 transcription elongation complex (hPAF1C). We 
demonstrate that binding of NS1 to hPAF1C depends on the NS1 histone mimic and
results in suppression of hPAF1C-mediated transcriptional elongation.
Furthermore, human PAF1 has a crucial role in the antiviral response. Loss of
hPAF1C binding by NS1 attenuates influenza infection, whereas hPAF1C deficiency
reduces antiviral gene expression and renders cells more susceptible to viruses. 
We propose that the histone mimic in NS1 enables the influenza virus to affect
inducible gene expression selectively, thus contributing to suppression of the
antiviral response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10892 
PMCID: PMC3598589
PMID: 22419161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7391):594-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10899.

Deciphering a neuronal circuit that mediates appetite.

Wu Q(1), Clark MS, Palmiter RD.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Biochemistry, University of 
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Hypothalamic neurons that co-express agouti-related protein (AgRP),
neuropeptide Y and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) are known to promote feeding and
weight gain by integration of various nutritional, hormonal, and neuronal
signals. Ablation of these neurons in mice leads to cessation of feeding that is 
accompanied by activation of Fos in most regions where they project. Previous
experiments have indicated that the ensuing starvation is due to aberrant
activation of the parabrachial nucleus (PBN) and it could be prevented by
facilitating GABA(A) receptor signalling in the PBN within a critical adaptation 
period. We speculated that loss of GABA signalling from AgRP-expressing neurons
(AgRP neurons) within the PBN results in unopposed excitation of the PBN, which
in turn inhibits feeding. However, the source of the excitatory inputs to the PBN
was unknown. Here we show that glutamatergic neurons in the nucleus tractus
solitarius (NTS) and caudal serotonergic neurons control the excitability of PBN 
neurons and inhibit feeding. Blockade of serotonin (5-HT(3)) receptor signalling 
in the NTS by either the chronic administration of ondansetron or the genetic
inactivation of Tph2 in caudal serotonergic neurons that project to the NTS
protects against starvation when AgRP neurons are ablated. Likewise, genetic
inactivation of glutamatergic signalling by the NTS onto N-methyl
D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors in the PBN prevents starvation. We also show
that suppressing glutamatergic output of the PBN reinstates normal appetite after
AgRP neuron ablation, whereas it promotes weight gain without AgRP neuron
ablation. Thus we identify the PBN as a hub that integrates signals from several 
brain regions to bidirectionally modulate feeding and body weight.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10899 
PMCID: PMC4000532
PMID: 22419158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7390):434-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10895.

Intrinsic coupling of lagging-strand synthesis to chromatin assembly.

Smith DJ(1), Whitehouse I.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 22;483(7390):412-3.

Fifty per cent of the genome is discontinuously replicated on the lagging strand 
as Okazaki fragments. Eukaryotic Okazaki fragments remain poorly characterized
and, because nucleosomes are rapidly deposited on nascent DNA, Okazaki fragment
processing and nucleosome assembly potentially affect one another. Here we show
that ligation-competent Okazaki fragments in Saccharomyces cerevisiae are sized
according to the nucleosome repeat. Using deep sequencing, we demonstrate that
ligation junctions preferentially occur near nucleosome midpoints rather than in 
internucleosomal linker regions. Disrupting chromatin assembly or lagging-strand 
polymerase processivity affects both the size and the distribution of Okazaki
fragments, suggesting a role for nascent chromatin, assembled immediately after
the passage of the replication fork, in the termination of Okazaki fragment
synthesis. Our studies represent the first high-resolution analysis--to our
knowledge--of eukaryotic Okazaki fragments in vivo, and reveal the
interconnection between lagging-strand synthesis and chromatin assembly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10895 
PMCID: PMC3490407
PMID: 22419157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7390):457-60. doi: 10.1038/nature10880.

Adaptive radiation of multituberculate mammals before the extinction of
dinosaurs.

Wilson GP(1), Evans AR, Corfe IJ, Smits PD, Fortelius M, Jernvall J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195-1800, USA. gpwilson@u.washington.edu

The Cretaceous-Paleogene mass extinction approximately 66 million years ago is
conventionally thought to have been a turning point in mammalian evolution. Prior
to that event and for the first two-thirds of their evolutionary history, mammals
were mostly confined to roles as generalized, small-bodied, nocturnal
insectivores, presumably under selection pressures from dinosaurs. Release from
these pressures, by extinction of non-avian dinosaurs at the Cretaceous-Paleogene
boundary, triggered ecological diversification of mammals. Although recent
individual fossil discoveries have shown that some mammalian lineages diversified
ecologically during the Mesozoic era, comprehensive ecological analyses of
mammalian groups crossing the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary are lacking. Such
analyses are needed because diversification analyses of living taxa allow only
indirect inferences of past ecosystems. Here we show that in arguably the most
evolutionarily successful clade of Mesozoic mammals, the Multituberculata, an
adaptive radiation began at least 20 million years before the extinction of
non-avian dinosaurs and continued across the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary.
Disparity in dental complexity, which relates to the range of diets, rose sharply
in step with generic richness and disparity in body size. Moreover, maximum
dental complexity and body size demonstrate an adaptive shift towards increased
herbivory. This dietary expansion tracked the ecological rise of angiosperms and 
suggests that the resources that were available to multituberculates were
relatively unaffected by the Cretaceous-Paleogene mass extinction. Taken
together, our results indicate that mammals were able to take advantage of new
ecological opportunities in the Mesozoic and that at least some of these
opportunities persisted through the Cretaceous-Paleogene mass extinction. Similar
broad-scale ecomorphological inventories of other radiations may help to
constrain the possible causes of mass extinctions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10880 
PMID: 22419156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;483(7390):453-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10891.

Collapse of polar ice sheets during the stage 11 interglacial.

Raymo ME(1), Mitrovica JX.

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, PO Box 1000, 61 Route
9W, Palisades, New York 10964, USA. raymo@ldeo.columbia.edu

Contentious observations of Pleistocene shoreline features on the tectonically
stable islands of Bermuda and the Bahamas have suggested that sea level about
400,000 years ago was more than 20 metres higher than it is today. Geochronologic
and geomorphic evidence indicates that these features formed during interglacial 
marine isotope stage (MIS) 11, an unusually long interval of warmth during the
ice age. Previous work has advanced two divergent hypotheses for these shoreline 
features: first, significant melting of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet, in addition
to the collapse of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet and the Greenland Ice Sheet; or
second, emplacement by a mega-tsunami during MIS 11 (ref. 4, 5). Here we show
that the elevations of these features are corrected downwards by ∼10 metres when 
we account for post-glacial crustal subsidence of these sites over the course of 
the anomalously long interglacial. On the basis of this correction, we estimate
that eustatic sea level rose to ∼6-13 m above the present-day value in the second
half of MIS 11. This suggests that both the Greenland Ice Sheet and the West
Antarctic Ice Sheet collapsed during the protracted warm period while changes in 
the volume of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet were relatively minor, thereby
resolving the long-standing controversy over the stability of the East Antarctic 
Ice Sheet during MIS 11.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10891 
PMID: 22419155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;484(7393):265-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10916.

Visualizing molecular juggling within a B12-dependent methyltransferase complex.

Kung Y(1), Ando N, Doukov TI, Blasiak LC, Bender G, Seravalli J, Ragsdale SW,
Drennan CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Derivatives of vitamin B(12) are used in methyl group transfer in biological
processes as diverse as methionine synthesis in humans and CO(2) fixation in
acetogenic bacteria. This seemingly straightforward reaction requires large,
multimodular enzyme complexes that adopt multiple conformations to alternately
activate, protect and perform catalysis on the reactive B(12) cofactor. Crystal
structures determined thus far have provided structural information for only
fragments of these complexes, inspiring speculation about the overall protein
assembly and conformational movements inherent to activity. Here we present X-ray
crystal structures of a complete 220 kDa complex that contains all enzymes
responsible for B(12)-dependent methyl transfer, namely the corrinoid
iron-sulphur protein and its methyltransferase from the model acetogen Moorella
thermoacetica. These structures provide the first three-dimensional depiction of 
all protein modules required for the activation, protection and catalytic steps
of B(12)-dependent methyl transfer. In addition, the structures capture B(12) at 
multiple locations between its 'resting' and catalytic positions, allowing
visualization of the dramatic protein rearrangements that enable methyl transfer 
and identification of the trajectory for B(12) movement within the large enzyme
scaffold. The structures are also presented alongside in crystallo spectroscopic 
data, which confirm enzymatic activity within crystals and demonstrate the
largest known conformational movements of proteins in a crystalline state. Taken 
together, this work provides a model for the molecular juggling that accompanies 
turnover and helps explain why such an elaborate protein framework is required
for such a simple, yet biologically essential reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10916 
PMCID: PMC3326194
PMID: 22419154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nature. 2012 Mar 14;484(7392):62-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10918.

Choice-specific sequences in parietal cortex during a virtual-navigation decision
task.

Harvey CD(1), Coen P, Tank DW.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 
08544, USA. christopher_harvey@hms.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):42-3.

The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has an important role in many cognitive
behaviours; however, the neural circuit dynamics underlying PPC function are not 
well understood. Here we optically imaged the spatial and temporal activity
patterns of neuronal populations in mice performing a PPC-dependent task that
combined a perceptual decision and memory-guided navigation in a virtual
environment. Individual neurons had transient activation staggered relative to
one another in time, forming a sequence of neuronal activation spanning the
entire length of a task trial. Distinct sequences of neurons were triggered on
trials with opposite behavioural choices and defined divergent, choice-specific
trajectories through a state space of neuronal population activity. Cells
participating in the different sequences and at distinct time points in the task 
were anatomically intermixed over microcircuit length scales (<100 micrometres). 
During working memory decision tasks, the PPC may therefore perform computations 
through sequence-based circuit dynamics, rather than long-lived stable states,
implemented using anatomically intermingled microcircuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10918 
PMCID: PMC3321074
PMID: 22419153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2012 Mar 11;483(7390):489-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10882.

Crystal structure of a concentrative nucleoside transporter from Vibrio cholerae 
at 2.4 Å.

Johnson ZL(1), Cheong CG, Lee SY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Ion Channel Research Unit, Duke University
Medical Center, 2 Genome Court, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Nucleosides are required for DNA and RNA synthesis, and the nucleoside adenosine 
has a function in a variety of signalling processes. Transport of nucleosides
across cell membranes provides the major source of nucleosides in many cell types
and is also responsible for the termination of adenosine signalling. As a result 
of their hydrophilic nature, nucleosides require a specialized class of integral 
membrane proteins, known as nucleoside transporters (NTs), for specific transport
across cell membranes. In addition to nucleosides, NTs are important determinants
for the transport of nucleoside-derived drugs across cell membranes. A wide range
of nucleoside-derived drugs, including anticancer drugs (such as Ara-C and
gemcitabine) and antiviral drugs (such as zidovudine and ribavirin), have been
shown to depend, at least in part, on NTs for transport across cell membranes.
Concentrative nucleoside transporters, members of the solute carrier transporter 
superfamily SLC28, use an ion gradient in the active transport of both
nucleosides and nucleoside-derived drugs against their chemical gradients. The
structural basis for selective ion-coupled nucleoside transport by concentrative 
nucleoside transporters is unknown. Here we present the crystal structure of a
concentrative nucleoside transporter from Vibrio cholerae in complex with uridine
at 2.4 Å. Our functional data show that, like its human orthologues, the
transporter uses a sodium-ion gradient for nucleoside transport. The structure
reveals the overall architecture of this class of transporter, unravels the
molecular determinants for nucleoside and sodium binding, and provides a
framework for understanding the mechanism of nucleoside and nucleoside drug
transport across cell membranes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10882 
PMCID: PMC3310960
PMID: 22407322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nature. 2012 Mar 11;483(7390):465-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10877.

MEGF10 and MEGF11 mediate homotypic interactions required for mosaic spacing of
retinal neurons.

Kay JN(1), Chu MW, Sanes JR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Brain Science and Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, 52 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

In many parts of the nervous system, neuronal somata display orderly spatial
arrangements. In the retina, neurons of numerous individual subtypes form regular
arrays called mosaics: they are less likely to be near neighbours of the same
subtype than would occur by chance, resulting in 'exclusion zones' that separate 
them. Mosaic arrangements provide a mechanism to distribute each cell type evenly
across the retina, ensuring that all parts of the visual field have access to a
full set of processing elements. Remarkably, mosaics are independent of each
other: although a neuron of one subtype is unlikely to be adjacent to another of 
the same subtype, there is no restriction on its spatial relationship to
neighbouring neurons of other subtypes. This independence has led to the
hypothesis that molecular cues expressed by specific subtypes pattern mosaics by 
mediating homotypic (within-subtype) short-range repulsive interactions. So far, 
however, no molecules have been identified that show such activity, so this
hypothesis remains untested. Here we demonstrate in mouse that two related
transmembrane proteins, MEGF10 and MEGF11, have critical roles in the formation
of mosaics by two retinal interneuron subtypes, starburst amacrine cells and
horizontal cells. MEGF10 and 11 and their invertebrate relatives Caenorhabditis
elegans CED-1 and Drosophila Draper have hitherto been studied primarily as
receptors necessary for engulfment of debris following apoptosis or axonal
injury. Our results demonstrate that members of this gene family can also serve
as subtype-specific ligands that pattern neuronal arrays.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10877 
PMCID: PMC3310952
PMID: 22407321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nature. 2012 Mar 11;483(7390):494-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10881.

Identification and characterization of a bacterial hydrosulphide ion channel.

Czyzewski BK(1), Wang DN.

Author information: 
(1)The Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine at the
Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York University School of
Medicine, 540 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA.

The hydrosulphide ion (HS(-)) and its undissociated form, hydrogen sulphide
(H(2)S), which are believed to have been critical to the origin of life on Earth,
remain important in physiology and cellular signalling. As a major metabolite in 
anaerobic bacterial growth, hydrogen sulphide is a product of both assimilatory
and dissimilatory sulphate reduction. These pathways can reduce various oxidized 
sulphur compounds including sulphate, sulphite and thiosulphate. The
dissimilatory sulphate reduction pathway uses this molecule as the terminal
electron acceptor for anaerobic respiration, in which process it produces excess 
amounts of H(2)S (ref. 4). The reduction of sulphite is a key intermediate step
in all sulphate reduction pathways. In Clostridium and Salmonella, an inducible
sulphite reductase is directly linked to the regeneration of NAD(+), which has
been suggested to have a role in energy production and growth, as well as in the 
detoxification of sulphite. Above a certain concentration threshold, both H(2)S
and HS(-) inhibit cell growth by binding the metal centres of enzymes and
cytochrome oxidase, necessitating a release mechanism for the export of this
toxic metabolite from the cell. Here we report the identification of a
hydrosulphide ion channel in the pathogen Clostridium difficile through a
combination of genetic, biochemical and functional approaches. The HS(-) channel 
is a member of the formate/nitrite transport family, in which about 50
hydrosulphide ion channels form a third subfamily alongside those for formate
(FocA) and for nitrite (NirC). The hydrosulphide ion channel is permeable to
formate and nitrite as well as to HS(-) ions. Such polyspecificity can be
explained by the conserved ion selectivity filter observed in the channel's
crystal structure. The channel has a low open probability and is tightly
regulated, to avoid decoupling of the membrane proton gradient.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10881 
PMCID: PMC3711795
PMID: 22407320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nature. 2012 Mar 11;483(7391):623-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10894.

The Shigella flexneri effector OspI deamidates UBC13 to dampen the inflammatory
response.

Sanada T(1), Kim M, Mimuro H, Suzuki M, Ogawa M, Oyama A, Ashida H, Kobayashi T, 
Koyama T, Nagai S, Shibata Y, Gohda J, Inoue J, Mizushima T, Sasakawa C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Control, International Research Center for
Infectious Diseases, University of Tokyo, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

Comment in
    Virulence. 2012 Oct 1;3(6):518-21.

Many bacterial pathogens can enter various host cells and then survive
intracellularly, transiently evade humoral immunity, and further disseminate to
other cells and tissues. When bacteria enter host cells and replicate
intracellularly, the host cells sense the invading bacteria as damage-associated 
molecular patterns (DAMPs) and pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) by 
way of various pattern recognition receptors. As a result, the host cells induce 
alarm signals that activate the innate immune system. Therefore, bacteria must
modulate host inflammatory signalling and dampen these alarm signals. How
pathogens do this after invading epithelial cells remains unclear, however. Here 
we show that OspI, a Shigella flexneri effector encoded by ORF169b on the large
plasmid and delivered by the type ΙΙΙ secretion system, dampens acute
inflammatory responses during bacterial invasion by suppressing the
tumour-necrosis factor (TNF)-receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6)-mediated
signalling pathway. OspI is a glutamine deamidase that selectively deamidates the
glutamine residue at position 100 in UBC13 to a glutamic acid residue.
Consequently, the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating activity required for TRAF6 activation
is inhibited, allowing S. flexneri OspI to modulate the diacylglycerol-CBM
(CARD-BCL10-MALT1) complex-TRAF6-nuclear-factor-κB signalling pathway. We
determined the 2.0 Å crystal structure of OspI, which contains a putative
cysteine-histidine-aspartic acid catalytic triad. A mutational analysis showed
this catalytic triad to be essential for the deamidation of UBC13. Our results
suggest that S. flexneri inhibits acute inflammatory responses in the initial
stage of infection by targeting the UBC13-TRAF6 complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10894 
PMID: 22407319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nature. 2012 Mar 11;483(7391):627-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10893.

Tissue factor and PAR1 promote microbiota-induced intestinal vascular
remodelling.

Reinhardt C(1), Bergentall M, Greiner TU, Schaffner F, Ostergren-Lundén G,
Petersen LC, Ruf W, Bäckhed F.

Author information: 
(1)Sahlgrenska Center for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research/Wallenberg
Laboratory, University of Gothenburg, 413 45 Gothenburg, Sweden.

The gut microbiota is a complex ecosystem that has coevolved with host
physiology. Colonization of germ-free (GF) mice with a microbiota promotes
increased vessel density in the small intestine, but little is known about the
mechanisms involved. Tissue factor (TF) is the membrane receptor that initiates
the extrinsic coagulation pathway, and it promotes developmental and tumour
angiogenesis. Here we show that the gut microbiota promotes TF glycosylation
associated with localization of TF on the cell surface, the activation of
coagulation proteases, and phosphorylation of the TF cytoplasmic domain in the
small intestine. Anti-TF treatment of colonized GF mice decreased
microbiota-induced vascular remodelling and expression of the proangiogenic
factor angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) in the small intestine. Mice with a genetic
deletion of the TF cytoplasmic domain or with hypomorphic TF (F3) alleles had a
decreased intestinal vessel density. Coagulation proteases downstream of TF
activate protease-activated receptor (PAR) signalling implicated in angiogenesis.
Vessel density and phosphorylation of the cytoplasmic domain of TF were decreased
in small intestine from PAR1-deficient (F2r(-/-)) but not PAR2-deficient
(F2rl1(-/-)) mice, and inhibition of thrombin showed that thrombin-PAR1
signalling was upstream of TF phosphorylation. Thus, the microbiota-induced
extravascular TF-PAR1 signalling loop is a novel pathway that may be modulated to
influence vascular remodelling in the small intestine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10893 
PMCID: PMC3885420
PMID: 22407318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2012 Mar 11;483(7391):632-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10917.

Structure and mechanism of a glutamate-GABA antiporter.

Ma D(1), Lu P, Yan C, Fan C, Yin P, Wang J, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Protein Science Laboratory, Center for Structural
Biology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Food-borne hemorrhagic Escherichia coli, exemplified by the strains O157:H7 and
O104:H4 (refs 1, 2), require elaborate acid-resistance systems (ARs) to survive
the extremely acidic environment such as the stomach (pH ≈ 2). AR2 expels
intracellular protons through the decarboxylation of L-glutamate (Glu) in the
cytoplasm and exchange of the reaction product γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) with
extracellular Glu. The latter process is mediated by the Glu-GABA antiporter
GadC, a representative member of the amino-acid-polyamine-organocation
superfamily of membrane transporters. The functional mechanism of GadC remains
largely unknown. Here we show, with the use of an in vitro proteoliposome-based
assay, that GadC transports GABA/Glu only under acidic conditions, with no
detectable activity at pH  values higher than 6.5. We determined the crystal
structure of E. coli GadC at 3.1 Å resolution under basic conditions. GadC,
comprising 12 transmembrane segments (TMs), exists in a closed state, with its
carboxy-terminal domain serving as a plug to block an otherwise inward-open
conformation. Structural and biochemical analyses reveal the essential transport 
residues, identify the transport path and suggest a conserved transport mechanism
involving the rigid-body rotation of a helical bundle for GadC and other amino
acid antiporters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10917 
PMID: 22407317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7388):198-200. doi: 10.1038/nature10855.

Preservation of organic matter in sediments promoted by iron.

Lalonde K(1), Mucci A, Ouellet A, Gélinas Y.

Author information: 
(1)GEOTOP and Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University,
7141 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, Quebec H4B 1R6, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):165-6.

The biogeochemical cycles of iron and organic carbon are strongly interlinked. In
oceanic waters, organic ligands have been shown to control the concentration of
dissolved iron. In soils, solid iron phases shelter and preserve organic carbon, 
but the role of iron in the preservation of organic matter in sediments has not
been clearly established. Here we use an iron reduction method previously applied
to soils to determine the amount of organic carbon associated with reactive iron 
phases in sediments of various mineralogies collected from a wide range of
depositional environments. Our findings suggest that 21.5 ± 8.6 per cent of the
organic carbon in sediments is directly bound to reactive iron phases. We further
estimate that a global mass of (19-45) × 10(15) grams of organic carbon is
preserved in surface marine sediments as a result of its association with iron.
We propose that these associations between organic carbon and iron, which are
formed primarily through co-precipitation and/or direct chelation, promote the
preservation of organic carbon in sediments. Because reactive iron phases are
metastable over geological timescales, we suggest that they serve as an efficient
'rusty sink' for organic carbon, acting as a key factor in the long-term storage 
of organic carbon and thus contributing to the global cycles of carbon, oxygen
and sulphur.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10855 
PMID: 22398559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7388):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10820.

Imaging ultrafast molecular dynamics with laser-induced electron diffraction.

Blaga CI(1), Xu J, DiChiara AD, Sistrunk E, Zhang K, Agostini P, Miller TA,
DiMauro LF, Lin CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.
cblaga@mps.ohio-state.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):161-3.

Establishing the structure of molecules and solids has always had an essential
role in physics, chemistry and biology. The methods of choice are X-ray and
electron diffraction, which are routinely used to determine atomic positions with
sub-ångström spatial resolution. Although both methods are currently limited to
probing dynamics on timescales longer than a picosecond, the recent development
of femtosecond sources of X-ray pulses and electron beams suggests that they
might soon be capable of taking ultrafast snapshots of biological molecules and
condensed-phase systems undergoing structural changes. The past decade has also
witnessed the emergence of an alternative imaging approach based on laser-ionized
bursts of coherent electron wave packets that self-interrogate the parent
molecular structure. Here we show that this phenomenon can indeed be exploited
for laser-induced electron diffraction (LIED), to image molecular structures with
sub-ångström precision and exposure times of a few femtoseconds. We apply the
method to oxygen and nitrogen molecules, which on strong-field ionization at
three mid-infrared wavelengths (1.7, 2.0 and 2.3 μm) emit photoelectrons with a
momentum distribution from which we extract diffraction patterns. The long
wavelength is essential for achieving atomic-scale spatial resolution, and the
wavelength variation is equivalent to taking snapshots at different times. We
show that the method has the sensitivity to measure a 0.1 Å displacement in the
oxygen bond length occurring in a time interval of ∼5 fs, which establishes LIED 
as a promising approach for the imaging of gas-phase molecules with unprecedented
spatio-temporal resolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10820 
PMID: 22398558 


738. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7388):190-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10878.

Field-driven photoemission from nanostructures quenches the quiver motion.

Herink G(1), Solli DR, Gulde M, Ropers C.

Author information: 
(1)Courant Research Center for Nano-Spectroscopy and X-Ray Imaging, University of
Göttingen, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Strong-field physics, an extreme limit of light-matter interaction, is expanding 
into the realm of surfaces and nanostructures from its origin in atomic and
molecular science. The attraction of nanostructures lies in two intimately
connected features: local intensity enhancement and sub-wavelength confinement of
optical fields. Local intensity enhancement facilitates access to the
strong-field regime and has already sparked various applications, whereas spatial
localization has the potential to generate strong-field dynamics exclusive to
nanostructures. However, the observation of features unattainable in gaseous
media is challenged by many-body effects and material damage, which arise under
intense illumination of dense systems. Here, we non-destructively access this
regime in the solid state by employing single plasmonic nanotips and few-cycle
mid-infrared pulses, making use of the wavelength-dependence of the interaction, 
that is, the ponderomotive energy. We investigate strong-field photoelectron
emission and acceleration from single nanostructures over a broad spectral range,
and find kinetic energies of hundreds of electronvolts. We observe the transition
to a new regime in strong-field dynamics, in which the electrons escape the
nanolocalized field within a fraction of an optical half-cycle. The transition
into this regime, characterized by a spatial adiabaticity parameter, would
require relativistic electrons in the absence of nanostructures. These results
establish new degrees of freedom for the manipulation and control of electron
dynamics on femtosecond and attosecond timescales, combining optical near-fields 
and nanoscopic sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10878 
PMID: 22398557 


739. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7388):187-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10872.

Experimental verification of Landauer's principle linking information and
thermodynamics.

Bérut A(1), Arakelyan A, Petrosyan A, Ciliberto S, Dillenschneider R, Lutz E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physique, École Normale Supérieure, CNRS UMR5672, 46 Allée
d'Italie, 69364 Lyon, France.

In 1961, Rolf Landauer argued that the erasure of information is a dissipative
process. A minimal quantity of heat, proportional to the thermal energy and
called the Landauer bound, is necessarily produced when a classical bit of
information is deleted. A direct consequence of this logically irreversible
transformation is that the entropy of the environment increases by a finite
amount. Despite its fundamental importance for information theory and computer
science, the erasure principle has not been verified experimentally so far, the
main obstacle being the difficulty of doing single-particle experiments in the
low-dissipation regime. Here we experimentally show the existence of the Landauer
bound in a generic model of a one-bit memory. Using a system of a single
colloidal particle trapped in a modulated double-well potential, we establish
that the mean dissipated heat saturates at the Landauer bound in the limit of
long erasure cycles. This result demonstrates the intimate link between
information theory and thermodynamics. It further highlights the ultimate
physical limit of irreversible computation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10872 
PMID: 22398556 


740. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7388):169-75. doi: 10.1038/nature10842.

Insights into hominid evolution from the gorilla genome sequence.

Scally A(1), Dutheil JY, Hillier LW, Jordan GE, Goodhead I, Herrero J, Hobolth A,
Lappalainen T, Mailund T, Marques-Bonet T, McCarthy S, Montgomery SH, Schwalie
PC, Tang YA, Ward MC, Xue Y, Yngvadottir B, Alkan C, Andersen LN, Ayub Q, Ball
EV, Beal K, Bradley BJ, Chen Y, Clee CM, Fitzgerald S, Graves TA, Gu Y, Heath P, 
Heger A, Karakoc E, Kolb-Kokocinski A, Laird GK, Lunter G, Meader S, Mort M,
Mullikin JC, Munch K, O'Connor TD, Phillips AD, Prado-Martinez J, Rogers AS,
Sajjadian S, Schmidt D, Shaw K, Simpson JT, Stenson PD, Turner DJ, Vigilant L,
Vilella AJ, Whitener W, Zhu B, Cooper DN, de Jong P, Dermitzakis ET, Eichler EE, 
Flicek P, Goldman N, Mundy NI, Ning Z, Odom DT, Ponting CP, Quail MA, Ryder OA,
Searle SM, Warren WC, Wilson RK, Schierup MH, Rogers J, Tyler-Smith C, Durbin R.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10
1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):164-5.

Gorillas are humans' closest living relatives after chimpanzees, and are of
comparable importance for the study of human origins and evolution. Here we
present the assembly and analysis of a genome sequence for the western lowland
gorilla, and compare the whole genomes of all extant great ape genera. We propose
a synthesis of genetic and fossil evidence consistent with placing the
human-chimpanzee and human-chimpanzee-gorilla speciation events at approximately 
6 and 10 million years ago. In 30% of the genome, gorilla is closer to human or
chimpanzee than the latter are to each other; this is rarer around coding genes, 
indicating pervasive selection throughout great ape evolution, and has functional
consequences in gene expression. A comparison of protein coding genes reveals
approximately 500 genes showing accelerated evolution on each of the gorilla,
human and chimpanzee lineages, and evidence for parallel acceleration,
particularly of genes involved in hearing. We also compare the western and
eastern gorilla species, estimating an average sequence divergence time 1.75
million years ago, but with evidence for more recent genetic exchange and a
population bottleneck in the eastern species. The use of the genome sequence in
these and future analyses will promote a deeper understanding of great ape
biology and evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10842 
PMCID: PMC3303130
PMID: 22398555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7390):439-43. doi: 10.1038/nature10942.

Resonant quantum transitions in trapped antihydrogen atoms.

Amole C(1), Ashkezari MD, Baquero-Ruiz M, Bertsche W, Bowe PD, Butler E, Capra A,
Cesar CL, Charlton M, Deller A, Donnan PH, Eriksson S, Fajans J, Friesen T,
Fujiwara MC, Gill DR, Gutierrez A, Hangst JS, Hardy WN, Hayden ME, Humphries AJ, 
Isaac CA, Jonsell S, Kurchaninov L, Little A, Madsen N, McKenna JT, Menary S,
Napoli SC, Nolan P, Olchanski K, Olin A, Pusa P, Rasmussen CØ, Robicheaux F,
Sarid E, Shields CR, Silveira DM, Stracka S, So C, Thompson RI, van der Werf DP, 
Wurtele JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, Toronto, Ontario, M3J
1P3, Canada.

The hydrogen atom is one of the most important and influential model systems in
modern physics. Attempts to understand its spectrum are inextricably linked to
the early history and development of quantum mechanics. The hydrogen atom's
stature lies in its simplicity and in the accuracy with which its spectrum can be
measured and compared to theory. Today its spectrum remains a valuable tool for
determining the values of fundamental constants and for challenging the limits of
modern physics, including the validity of quantum electrodynamics and--by
comparison with measurements on its antimatter counterpart, antihydrogen--the
validity of CPT (charge conjugation, parity and time reversal) symmetry. Here we 
report spectroscopy of a pure antimatter atom, demonstrating resonant quantum
transitions in antihydrogen. We have manipulated the internal spin state of
antihydrogen atoms so as to induce magnetic resonance transitions between
hyperfine levels of the positronic ground state. We used resonant microwave
radiation to flip the spin of the positron in antihydrogen atoms that were
magnetically trapped in the ALPHA apparatus. The spin flip causes trapped
anti-atoms to be ejected from the trap. We look for evidence of resonant
interaction by comparing the survival rate of trapped atoms irradiated with
microwaves on-resonance to that of atoms subjected to microwaves that are
off-resonance. In one variant of the experiment, we detect 23 atoms that survive 
in 110 trapping attempts with microwaves off-resonance (0.21 per attempt), and
only two atoms that survive in 103 attempts with microwaves on-resonance (0.02
per attempt). We also describe the direct detection of the annihilation of
antihydrogen atoms ejected by the microwaves.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10942 
PMID: 22398451 


742. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7389):336-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10879.

Phase transitions in the assembly of multivalent signalling proteins.

Li P(1), Banjade S, Cheng HC, Kim S, Chen B, Guo L, Llaguno M, Hollingsworth JV, 
King DS, Banani SF, Russo PS, Jiang QX, Nixon BT, Rosen MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390-8812, USA.

Cells are organized on length scales ranging from ångström to micrometres.
However, the mechanisms by which ångström-scale molecular properties are
translated to micrometre-scale macroscopic properties are not well understood.
Here we show that interactions between diverse synthetic, multivalent
macromolecules (including multi-domain proteins and RNA) produce sharp
liquid-liquid-demixing phase separations, generating micrometre-sized liquid
droplets in aqueous solution. This macroscopic transition corresponds to a
molecular transition between small complexes and large, dynamic supramolecular
polymers. The concentrations needed for phase transition are directly related to 
the valency of the interacting species. In the case of the actin-regulatory
protein called neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP) interacting with 
its established biological partners NCK and phosphorylated nephrin, the phase
transition corresponds to a sharp increase in activity towards an actin
nucleation factor, the Arp2/3 complex. The transition is governed by the degree
of phosphorylation of nephrin, explaining how this property of the system can be 
controlled to regulatory effect by kinases. The widespread occurrence of
multivalent systems suggests that phase transitions may be used to spatially
organize and biochemically regulate information throughout biology.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10879 
PMCID: PMC3343696
PMID: 22398450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7389):359-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10862.

An oxygenase that forms and deoxygenates toxic epoxide.

Teufel R(1), Friedrich T, Fuchs G.

Author information: 
(1)Mikrobiologie, Fakultät Biologie, Universität Freiburg, Schänzlestrasse 1,
D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.

Catabolism may give rise to toxic intermediates that compromise cell vitality,
such as epoxide formation in the recently elucidated and apparently universal
bacterial coenzyme A (CoA)-dependent degradation of phenylacetic acid. This
compound is central to the catabolism of a variety of aromatics, such as
phenylalanine, lignin-related compounds or environmental contaminants. The key
phenylacetyl-CoA monooxygenase (epoxidase) of the pathway, PaaABCE, is also
connected to the production of various primary and secondary metabolites, as well
as to the virulence of certain pathogens. However, the enzyme complex has so far 
not been investigated in detail. Here we characterize the bacterial
multicomponent monooxygenase PaaABCE that, surprisingly, not only transforms
phenylacetyl-CoA into its ring-1,2-epoxide, but also mediates the NADPH-dependent
removal of the epoxide oxygen, regenerating phenylacetyl-CoA with formation of
water. We provide evidence for a catalytic di-iron centre that is probably the
key to the unprecedented deoxygenation of an organic compound by an oxygenase.
Presumably, the bifunctionality is vital to avoid toxic intracellular epoxide
levels if the subsequent catabolic steps are impeded. Our data suggest that
detoxification is assisted by two thioesterases (PaaI and PaaY) forming
non-reactive breakdown products. Hence, PaaABCE may harbour an intrinsic escape
mechanism from its own toxic product and represents the archetype of a
bifunctional oxygenase/deoxygenase. Analogous reactions may possibly be catalysed
by other di-iron epoxidases.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10862 
PMID: 22398448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;484(7392):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10956.

The BAH domain of ORC1 links H4K20me2 to DNA replication licensing and
Meier-Gorlin syndrome.

Kuo AJ(1), Song J, Cheung P, Ishibe-Murakami S, Yamazoe S, Chen JK, Patel DJ,
Gozani O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The recognition of distinctly modified histones by specialized 'effector'
proteins constitutes a key mechanism for transducing molecular events at
chromatin to biological outcomes. Effector proteins influence DNA-templated
processes, including transcription, DNA recombination and DNA repair; however, no
effector functions have yet been identified within the mammalian machinery that
regulate DNA replication. Here we show that ORC1--a component of ORC (origin of
replication complex), which mediates pre-DNA replication licensing--contains a
bromo adjacent homology (BAH) domain that specifically recognizes histone H4
dimethylated at lysine 20 (H4K20me2). Recognition of H4K20me2 is a property
common to BAH domains present within diverse metazoan ORC1 proteins. Structural
studies reveal that the specificity of the BAH domain for H4K20me2 is mediated by
a dynamic aromatic dimethyl-lysine-binding cage and multiple intermolecular
contacts involving the bound peptide. H4K20me2 is enriched at replication
origins, and abrogating ORC1 recognition of H4K20me2 in cells impairs ORC1
occupancy at replication origins, ORC chromatin loading and cell-cycle
progression. Mutation of the ORC1 BAH domain has been implicated in the aetiology
of Meier-Gorlin syndrome (MGS), a form of primordial dwarfism, and ORC1 depletion
in zebrafish results in an MGS-like phenotype. We find that wild-type human ORC1,
but not ORC1-H4K20me2-binding mutants, rescues the growth retardation of orc1
morphants. Moreover, zebrafish depleted of H4K20me2 have diminished body size,
mirroring the phenotype of orc1 morphants. Together, our results identify the BAH
domain as a novel methyl-lysine-binding module, thereby establishing the first
direct link between histone methylation and the metazoan DNA replication
machinery, and defining a pivotal aetiological role for the canonical H4K20me2
mark, via ORC1, in primordial dwarfism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10956 
PMCID: PMC3321094
PMID: 22398447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;484(7394):345-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10955.

The 2.8 Å crystal structure of the dynein motor domain.

Kon T(1), Oyama T, Shimo-Kon R, Imamula K, Shima T, Sutoh K, Kurisu G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University, 3-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 
565-0871, Japan. takahide.kon@protein.osaka-u.ac.jp

Dyneins are microtubule-based AAA(+) motor complexes that power ciliary beating, 
cell division, cell migration and intracellular transport. Here we report the
most complete structure obtained so far, to our knowledge, of the 380-kDa motor
domain of Dictyostelium discoideum cytoplasmic dynein at 2.8 Å resolution; the
data are reliable enough to discuss the structure and mechanism at the level of
individual amino acid residues. Features that can be clearly visualized at this
resolution include the coordination of ADP in each of four distinct
nucleotide-binding sites in the ring-shaped AAA(+) ATPase unit, a newly
identified interaction interface between the ring and mechanical linker, and
junctional structures between the ring and microtubule-binding stalk, all of
which should be critical for the mechanism of dynein motility. We also identify a
long-range allosteric communication pathway between the primary ATPase and the
microtubule-binding sites. Our work provides a framework for understanding the
mechanism of dynein-based motility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10955 
PMID: 22398446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7389):324-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10876.

On the difficulty of increasing dental complexity.

Harjunmaa E(1), Kallonen A, Voutilainen M, Hämäläinen K, Mikkola ML, Jernvall J.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Program, Institute of Biotechnology, University of
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.

One of the fascinating aspects of the history of life is the apparent increase in
morphological complexity through time, a well known example being mammalian cheek
tooth evolution. In contrast, experimental studies of development more readily
show a decrease in complexity, again well exemplified by mammalian teeth, in
which tooth crown features called cusps are frequently lost in mutant and
transgenic mice. Here we report that mouse tooth complexity can be increased
substantially by adjusting multiple signalling pathways simultaneously. We
cultured teeth in vitro and adjusted ectodysplasin (EDA), activin A and sonic
hedgehog (SHH) pathways, all of which are individually required for normal tooth 
development. We quantified tooth complexity using the number of cusps and a
topographic measure of surface complexity. The results show that whereas
activation of EDA and activin A signalling, and inhibition of SHH signalling,
individually cause subtle to moderate increases in complexity, cusp number is
doubled when all three pathways are adjusted in unison. Furthermore, the increase
in cusp number does not result from an increase in tooth size, but from an
altered primary patterning phase of development. The combination of a lack of
complex mutants, the paucity of natural variants with complex phenotypes, and our
results of greatly increased dental complexity using multiple pathways, suggests 
that an increase may be inherently different from a decrease in phenotypic
complexity.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10876 
PMID: 22398444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Nature. 2012 Mar 7;483(7389):341-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10873.

A petunia ABC protein controls strigolactone-dependent symbiotic signalling and
branching.

Kretzschmar T(1), Kohlen W, Sasse J, Borghi L, Schlegel M, Bachelier JB,
Reinhardt D, Bours R, Bouwmeester HJ, Martinoia E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Biology, University of Zurich, 8008 Zurich, Switzerland.
t.kretzschmar@irri.org

Strigolactones were originally identified as stimulators of the germination of
root-parasitic weeds that pose a serious threat to resource-limited agriculture. 
They are mostly exuded from roots and function as signalling compounds in the
initiation of arbuscular mycorrhizae, which are plant-fungus symbionts with a
global effect on carbon and phosphate cycling. Recently, strigolactones were
established to be phytohormones that regulate plant shoot architecture by
inhibiting the outgrowth of axillary buds. Despite their importance, it is not
known how strigolactones are transported. ATP-binding cassette (ABC)
transporters, however, are known to have functions in phytohormone translocation.
Here we show that the Petunia hybrida ABC transporter PDR1 has a key role in
regulating the development of arbuscular mycorrhizae and axillary branches, by
functioning as a cellular strigolactone exporter. P. hybrida pdr1 mutants are
defective in strigolactone exudation from their roots, resulting in reduced
symbiotic interactions. Above ground, pdr1 mutants have an enhanced branching
phenotype, which is indicative of impaired strigolactone allocation.
Overexpression of Petunia axillaris PDR1 in Arabidopsis thaliana results in
increased tolerance to high concentrations of a synthetic strigolactone,
consistent with increased export of strigolactones from the roots. PDR1 is the
first known component in strigolactone transport, providing new opportunities for
investigating and manipulating strigolactone-dependent processes.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10873 
PMID: 22398443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nature. 2012 Mar 4;483(7389):331-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10845.

Corticostriatal plasticity is necessary for learning intentional neuroprosthetic 
skills.

Koralek AC(1), Jin X, Long JD 2nd, Costa RM, Carmena JM.

Author information: 
(1)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):284-5.

The ability to learn new skills and perfect them with practice applies not only
to physical skills but also to abstract skills, like motor planning or
neuroprosthetic actions. Although plasticity in corticostriatal circuits has been
implicated in learning physical skills, it remains unclear if similar circuits or
processes are required for abstract skill learning. Here we use a novel
behavioural task in rodents to investigate the role of corticostriatal plasticity
in abstract skill learning. Rodents learned to control the pitch of an auditory
cursor to reach one of two targets by modulating activity in primary motor cortex
irrespective of physical movement. Degradation of the relation between action and
outcome, as well as sensory-specific devaluation and omission tests, demonstrate 
that these learned neuroprosthetic actions are intentional and goal-directed,
rather than habitual. Striatal neurons change their activity with learning, with 
more neurons modulating their activity in relation to target-reaching as learning
progresses. Concomitantly, strong relations between the activity of neurons in
motor cortex and the striatum emerge. Specific deletion of striatal NMDA
receptors impairs the development of this corticostriatal plasticity, and
disrupts the ability to learn neuroprosthetic skills. These results suggest that 
corticostriatal plasticity is necessary for abstract skill learning, and that
neuroprosthetic movements capitalize on the neural circuitry involved in natural 
motor learning.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10845 
PMCID: PMC3477868
PMID: 22388818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Nature. 2012 Mar 4;483(7389):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10865.

Enzymatic catalysis of anti-Baldwin ring closure in polyether biosynthesis.

Hotta K(1), Chen X, Paton RS, Minami A, Li H, Swaminathan K, Mathews II, Watanabe
K, Oikawa H, Houk KN, Kim CY.

Author information: 
(1)National University of Singapore, Department of Biological Sciences, 14
Science Drive 4, 117543 Singapore.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):285-6.

Polycyclic polyether natural products have fascinated chemists and biologists
alike owing to their useful biological activity, highly complex structure and
intriguing biosynthetic mechanisms. Following the original proposal for the
polyepoxide origin of lasalocid and isolasalocid and the experimental
determination of the origins of the oxygen and carbon atoms of both lasalocid and
monensin, a unified stereochemical model for the biosynthesis of polyether
ionophore antibiotics was proposed. The model was based on a cascade of
nucleophilic ring closures of postulated polyepoxide substrates generated by
stereospecific oxidation of all-trans polyene polyketide intermediates. Shortly
thereafter, a related model was proposed for the biogenesis of marine ladder
toxins, involving a series of nominally disfavoured anti-Baldwin, endo-tet
epoxide-ring-opening reactions. Recently, we identified Lsd19 from the
Streptomyces lasaliensis gene cluster as the epoxide hydrolase responsible for
the epoxide-opening cyclization of bisepoxyprelasalocid A to form lasalocid A.
Here we report the X-ray crystal structure of Lsd19 in complex with its substrate
and product analogue to provide the first atomic structure-to our knowledge-of a 
natural enzyme capable of catalysing the disfavoured epoxide-opening cyclic ether
formation. On the basis of our structural and computational studies, we propose a
general mechanism for the enzymatic catalysis of polyether natural product
biosynthesis.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10865 
PMCID: PMC3401210
PMID: 22388816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2012 Mar 4;483(7389):328-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10853.

Coevolution in multidimensional trait space favours escape from parasites and
pathogens.

Gilman RT(1), Nuismer SL, Jhwueng DC.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis, Knoxville,
Tennessee 37916, USA. rtgilman@nimbios.org

Almost all species are subject to continuous attack by parasites and pathogens.
Because parasites and pathogens tend to have shorter generation times and often
experience stronger selection due to interaction than their victims do, it is
frequently argued that they should evolve more rapidly and thus maintain an
advantage in the evolutionary race between defence and counter-defence. This
prediction generates an apparent paradox: how do victim species survive and even 
thrive in the face of a continuous onslaught of more rapidly evolving enemies?
One potential explanation is that defence is physiologically, mechanically or
behaviourally easier than attack, so that evolution is less constrained for
victims than for parasites or pathogens. Another possible explanation is that
parasites and pathogens have enemies themselves and that victim species persist
because parasites and pathogens are regulated from the top down and thus
generally have only modest demographic impacts on victim populations. Here we
explore a third possibility: that victim species are not as evolutionarily
impotent as conventional wisdom holds, but instead have unique evolutionary
advantages that help to level the playing field. We use quantitative genetic
analysis and individual-based simulations to show that victims can achieve such
an advantage when coevolution involves multiple traits in both the host and the
parasite.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10853 
PMID: 22388815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2012 Mar 4;483(7391):598-602. doi: 10.1038/nature10953.

Chromatin-modifying enzymes as modulators of reprogramming.

Onder TT(1), Kara N, Cherry A, Sinha AU, Zhu N, Bernt KM, Cahan P, Marcarci BO,
Unternaehrer J, Gupta PB, Lander ES, Armstrong SA, Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Transplantation Program, Division of Pediatric Hematology and
Oncology, Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, Children's Hospital Boston
and Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) by somatic cell
reprogramming involves global epigenetic remodelling. Whereas several proteins
are known to regulate chromatin marks associated with the distinct epigenetic
states of cells before and after reprogramming, the role of specific
chromatin-modifying enzymes in reprogramming remains to be determined. To address
how chromatin-modifying proteins influence reprogramming, we used short hairpin
RNAs (shRNAs) to target genes in DNA and histone methylation pathways, and
identified positive and negative modulators of iPSC generation. Whereas
inhibition of the core components of the polycomb repressive complex 1 and 2,
including the histone 3 lysine 27 methyltransferase EZH2, reduced reprogramming
efficiency, suppression of SUV39H1, YY1 and DOT1L enhanced reprogramming.
Specifically, inhibition of the H3K79 histone methyltransferase DOT1L by shRNA or
a small molecule accelerated reprogramming, significantly increased the yield of 
iPSC colonies, and substituted for KLF4 and c-Myc (also known as MYC). Inhibition
of DOT1L early in the reprogramming process is associated with a marked increase 
in two alternative factors, NANOG and LIN28, which play essential functional
roles in the enhancement of reprogramming. Genome-wide analysis of H3K79me2
distribution revealed that fibroblast-specific genes associated with the
epithelial to mesenchymal transition lose H3K79me2 in the initial phases of
reprogramming. DOT1L inhibition facilitates the loss of this mark from genes that
are fated to be repressed in the pluripotent state. These findings implicate
specific chromatin-modifying enzymes as barriers to or facilitators of
reprogramming, and demonstrate how modulation of chromatin-modifying enzymes can 
be exploited to more efficiently generate iPSCs with fewer exogenous
transcription factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10953 
PMCID: PMC3501145
PMID: 22388813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;484(7393):214-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10931.

Structural basis of ultraviolet-B perception by UVR8.

Wu D(1), Hu Q, Yan Z, Chen W, Yan C, Huang X, Zhang J, Yang P, Deng H, Wang J,
Deng X, Shi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life Sciences, Center for Structural Biology,
School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.

The Arabidopsis thaliana protein UVR8 is a photoreceptor for ultraviolet-B. Upon 
ultraviolet-B irradiation, UVR8 undergoes an immediate switch from homodimer to
monomer, which triggers a signalling pathway for ultraviolet protection. The
mechanism by which UVR8 senses ultraviolet-B remains largely unknown. Here we
report the crystal structure of UVR8 at 1.8 Å resolution, revealing a symmetric
homodimer of seven-bladed β-propeller that is devoid of any external cofactor as 
the chromophore. Arginine residues that stabilize the homodimeric interface,
principally Arg 286 and Arg 338, make elaborate intramolecular cation-π
interactions with surrounding tryptophan amino acids. Two of these tryptophans,
Trp 285 and Trp 233, collectively serve as the ultraviolet-B chromophore. Our
structural and biochemical analyses identify the molecular mechanism for
UVR8-mediated ultraviolet-B perception, in which ultraviolet-B radiation results 
in destabilization of the intramolecular cation-π interactions, causing
disruption of the critical intermolecular hydrogen bonds mediated by Arg 286 and 
Arg 338 and subsequent dissociation of the UVR8 homodimer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10931 
PMID: 22388820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7388):227-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10851.

Skin infection generates non-migratory memory CD8+ T(RM) cells providing global
skin immunity.

Jiang X(1), Clark RA, Liu L, Wagers AJ, Fuhlbrigge RC, Kupper TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Harvard Skin Disease Research Center, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Apr;12(4):230-1.

Protective T-cell memory has long been thought to reside in blood and lymph
nodes, but recently the concept of immune memory in peripheral tissues mediated
by resident memory T (T(RM)) cells has been proposed. Here we show in mice that
localized vaccinia virus (VACV) skin infection generates long-lived
non-recirculating CD8(+) skin T(RM) cells that reside within the entire skin.
These skin T(RM) cells are potent effector cells, and are superior to circulating
central memory T (T(CM)) cells at providing rapid long-term protection against
cutaneous re-infection. We find that CD8(+) T cells are rapidly recruited to skin
after acute VACV infection. CD8(+) T-cell recruitment to skin is independent of
CD4(+) T cells and interferon-γ, but requires the expression of E- and P-selectin
ligands by CD8(+) T cells. Using parabiotic mice, we further show that
circulating CD8(+) T(CM) and CD8(+) skin T(RM) cells are both generated after
skin infection; however, CD8(+) T(CM) cells recirculate between blood and lymph
nodes whereas T(RM) cells remain in the skin. Cutaneous CD8(+) T(RM) cells
produce effector cytokines and persist for at least 6 months after infection.
Mice with CD8(+) skin T(RM) cells rapidly cleared a subsequent re-infection with 
VACV whereas mice with circulating T(CM) but no skin T(RM) cells showed greatly
impaired viral clearance, indicating that T(RM) cells provide superior
protection. Finally, we show that T(RM) cells generated as a result of localized 
VACV skin infection reside not only in the site of infection, but also populate
the entire skin surface and remain present for many months. Repeated
re-infections lead to progressive accumulation of highly protective T(RM) cells
in non-involved skin. These findings have important implications for our
understanding of protective immune memory at epithelial interfaces with the
environment, and suggest novel strategies for vaccines that protect against
tissue tropic organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10851 
PMCID: PMC3437663
PMID: 22388819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7389):320-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10854.

Uncovering the Neoproterozoic carbon cycle.

Johnston DT(1), Macdonald FA, Gill BC, Hoffman PF, Schrag DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, 20 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. johnston@eps.harvard.edu

Interpretations of major climatic and biological events in Earth history are, in 
large part, derived from the stable carbon isotope records of carbonate rocks and
sedimentary organic matter. Neoproterozoic carbonate records contain unusual and 
large negative isotopic anomalies within long periods (10-100 million years)
characterized by δ(13)C in carbonate (δ(13)C(carb)) enriched to more than +5 per 
mil. Classically, δ(13)C(carb) is interpreted as a metric of the relative
fraction of carbon buried as organic matter in marine sediments, which can be
linked to oxygen accumulation through the stoichiometry of primary production. If
a change in the isotopic composition of marine dissolved inorganic carbon is
responsible for these excursions, it is expected that records of δ(13)C(carb) and
δ(13)C in organic carbon (δ(13)C(org)) will covary, offset by the fractionation
imparted by primary production. The documentation of several Neoproterozoic
δ(13)C(carb) excursions that are decoupled from δ(13)C(org), however, indicates
that other mechanisms may account for these excursions. Here we present δ(13)C
data from Mongolia, northwest Canada and Namibia that capture multiple
large-amplitude (over 10 per mil) negative carbon isotope anomalies, and use
these data in a new quantitative mixing model to examine the behaviour of the
Neoproterozoic carbon cycle. We find that carbonate and organic carbon isotope
data from Mongolia and Canada are tightly coupled through multiple δ(13)C(carb)
excursions, quantitatively ruling out previously suggested alternative
explanations, such as diagenesis or the presence and terminal oxidation of a
large marine dissolved organic carbon reservoir. Our data from Namibia, which do 
not record isotopic covariance, can be explained by simple mixing with a detrital
flux of organic matter. We thus interpret δ(13)C(carb) anomalies as recording a
primary perturbation to the surface carbon cycle. This interpretation requires
the revisiting of models linking drastic isotope excursions to deep ocean
oxygenation and the opening of environments capable of supporting animals.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10854 
PMID: 22388817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7388):222-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10849.

An epigenetic blockade of cognitive functions in the neurodegenerating brain.

Gräff J(1), Rei D, Guan JS, Wang WY, Seo J, Hennig KM, Nieland TJ, Fass DM, Kao
PF, Kahn M, Su SC, Samiei A, Joseph N, Haggarty SJ, Delalle I, Tsai LH.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA.

Cognitive decline is a debilitating feature of most neurodegenerative diseases of
the central nervous system, including Alzheimer's disease. The causes leading to 
such impairment are only poorly understood and effective treatments are slow to
emerge. Here we show that cognitive capacities in the neurodegenerating brain are
constrained by an epigenetic blockade of gene transcription that is potentially
reversible. This blockade is mediated by histone deacetylase 2, which is
increased by Alzheimer's-disease-related neurotoxic insults in vitro, in two
mouse models of neurodegeneration and in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Histone deacetylase 2 associates with and reduces the histone acetylation of
genes important for learning and memory, which show a concomitant decrease in
expression. Importantly, reversing the build-up of histone deacetylase 2 by
short-hairpin-RNA-mediated knockdown unlocks the repression of these genes,
reinstates structural and synaptic plasticity, and abolishes
neurodegeneration-associated memory impairments. These findings advocate for the 
development of selective inhibitors of histone deacetylase 2 and suggest that
cognitive capacities following neurodegeneration are not entirely lost, but
merely impaired by this epigenetic blockade.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10849 
PMCID: PMC3498952
PMID: 22388814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7388):201-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10839.

Diverse transitional giant fleas from the Mesozoic era of China.

Huang D(1), Engel MS, Cai C, Wu H, Nel A.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology and Stratigraphy, Nanjing Institute of
Geology and Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China.

Fleas are one of the major lineages of ectoparasitic insects and are now highly
specialized for feeding on the blood of birds or mammals. This has isolated them 
among holometabolan insect orders, although they derive from the Antliophora
(scorpionflies and true flies). Like most ectoparasitic lineages, their fossil
record is meagre and confined to Cenozoic-era representatives of modern families,
so that we lack evidence of the origins of fleas in the Mesozoic era. The origins
of the first recognized Cretaceous stem-group flea, Tarwinia, remains highly
controversial. Here we report fossils of the oldest definitive fleas--giant forms
from the Middle Jurassic and Early Cretaceous periods of China. They exhibit many
defining features of fleas but retain primitive traits such as non-jumping
hindlegs. More importantly, all have stout and elongate sucking siphons for
piercing the hides of their hosts, implying that these fleas may be rooted among 
the pollinating 'long siphonate' scorpionflies of the Mesozoic. Their special
morphology suggests that their earliest hosts were hairy or feathered
'reptilians', and that they radiated to mammalian and bird hosts later in the
Cenozoic.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10839 
PMID: 22388812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7388):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10841.

Treatment of stroke with a PSD-95 inhibitor in the gyrencephalic primate brain.

Cook DJ(1), Teves L, Tymianski M.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Hospital Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, M5T 2S8,
Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Apr;11(4):272.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2012 Apr;8(4):178.

All attempts at treating strokes by pharmacologically reducing the human brain's 
vulnerability to ischaemia have failed, leaving stroke as a leading cause of
death, disability and massive socioeconomic loss worldwide. Over decades,
research has failed to translate over 1,000 experimental treatments from
discovery in cells and rodents to use in humans, a scientific crisis that gave
rise to the prevailing belief that pharmacological neuroprotection is not
feasible or practicable in higher-order brains. To provide a strategy for
advancing stroke therapy, we used higher-order gyrencephalic non-human primates, 
which bear genetic, anatomical and behavioural similarities to humans and tested 
neuroprotection by PSD-95 inhibitors--promising compounds that uncouple
postsynaptic density protein PSD-95 from neurotoxic signalling pathways. Here we 
show that stroke damage can be prevented in non-human primates in which a PSD-95 
inhibitor is administered after stroke onset in clinically relevant situations.
This treatment reduced infarct volumes as gauged by magnetic resonance imaging
and histology, preserved the capacity of ischaemic cells to maintain gene
transcription in genome-wide screens of ischaemic brain tissue, and significantly
preserved neurological function in neurobehavioural assays. The degree of tissue 
neuroprotection by magnetic resonance imaging corresponded strongly to the
preservation of neurological function, supporting the intuitive but unproven
dictum that integrity of brain tissue can reflect functional outcome. Our
findings establish that tissue neuroprotection and improved functional outcome
after stroke is unequivocally achievable in gyrencephalic non-human primates
treated with PSD-95 inhibitors. Efforts must ensue to translate these findings to
humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10841 
PMID: 22388811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7387):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10819.

Surprisingly complex community discovered in the mid-Devonian fossil forest at
Gilboa.

Stein WE(1), Berry CM, Hernick LV, Mannolini F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Binghamton University, New York, NY
13902-6000, USA. stein@binghamton.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 1;483(7387):41-2.

The origin of trees by the mid-Devonian epoch (398-385 million years ago) signals
a major change in terrestrial ecosystems with potential long-term consequences
including increased weathering, drop in atmospheric CO(2), modified climate,
changes in sedimentation patterns and mass extinction. However, little is known
about the ecology of early forests or how changes in early terrestrial ecosystems
influenced global processes. One of the most famous palaeontological records for 
this time is the 'oldest fossil forest' at Riverside Quarry, Gilboa, New York,
USA, discovered in the 1920s. Hundreds of large Eospermatopteris sandstone casts,
now thought to represent the bases of standing cladoxylopsid trees, were
recovered from a horizon that was originally interpreted as a muddy swamp. After 
quarry operations ceased, relatively minor outcrops of similar fossils at nearby 
localities have provided limited opportunities to evaluate this pervasive view
using modern methods. In 2010, removal of the quarry backfill enabled reappraisal
of the palaeoecology of this important site. Here we describe a 1,200 m(2) map
showing numerous Eospermatopteris root systems in life position within a
mixed-age stand of trees. Unexpectedly, large woody rhizomes with adventitious
roots and aerial branch systems identified as aneurophytalean progymnosperms run 
between, and probably climb into, Eospermatopteris trees. We describe the overall
habit for these surprisingly large aneurophytaleans, the earliest fossil group
having wood produced by a bifacial vascular cambium. The site also provides
evidence for arborescence within lycopsids, extending the North American range
for trees in this ecologically critical group. The rooting horizon is a dark grey
sandy mudstone showing limited root penetration. Although clearly belonging to a 
wetland coastal plain environment, the forest was probably limited in duration
and subject to periodic disturbance. These observations provide fundamental
clarification of the palaeoecology of this mixed-group early forest, with
important implications for interpreting coeval assemblage data worldwide.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10819 
PMID: 22382983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7387):74-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10848.

Continental collision slowing due to viscous mantle lithosphere rather than
topography.

Clark MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA. marinkc@umich.edu

Because the inertia of tectonic plates is negligible, plate velocities result
from the balance of forces acting at plate margins and along their base.
Observations of past plate motion derived from marine magnetic anomalies provide 
evidence of how continental deformation may contribute to plate driving forces. A
decrease in convergence rate at the inception of continental collision is
expected because of the greater buoyancy of continental than oceanic lithosphere,
but post-collisional rates are less well understood. Slowing of convergence has
generally been attributed to the development of high topography that further
resists convergent motion; however, the role of deforming continental mantle
lithosphere on plate motions has not previously been considered. Here I show that
the rate of India's penetration into Eurasia has decreased exponentially since
their collision. The exponential decrease in convergence rate suggests that
contractional strain across Tibet has been constant throughout the collision at a
rate of 7.03 × 10(-16) s(-1), which matches the current rate. A constant bulk
strain rate of the orogen suggests that convergent motion is resisted by constant
average stress (constant force) applied to a relatively uniform layer or
interface at depth. This finding follows new evidence that the mantle lithosphere
beneath Tibet is intact, which supports the interpretation that the long-term
strain history of Tibet reflects deformation of the mantle lithosphere. Under
conditions of constant stress and strength, the deforming continental lithosphere
creates a type of viscous resistance that affects plate motion irrespective of
how topography evolved.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10848 
PMID: 22382982 


760. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7387):70-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10785.

Catalytic functionalization of unactivated primary C-H bonds directed by an
alcohol.

Simmons EM(1), Hartwig JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 1;483(7387):42-3.

New synthetic methods for the catalytic functionalization of C-H bonds have the
potential to revolutionize the synthesis of complex molecules. However, the
realization of this synthetic potential requires the ability to functionalize
selectively one C-H bond in a compound containing many such bonds and an array of
functional groups. The site-selective functionalization of aliphatic C-H bonds is
one of the greatest challenges that must be met for C-H bond functionalization to
be used widely in complex-molecule synthesis, and processes catalysed by
transition-metals provide the opportunity to control selectivity. Current methods
for catalytic, aliphatic C-H bond functionalization typically rely on the
presence of one inherently reactive C-H bond, or on installation and subsequent
removal of directing groups that are not components of the desired molecule. To
overcome these limitations, we sought catalysts and reagents that would
facilitate aliphatic C-H bond functionalization at a single site, with
chemoselectivity derived from the properties of the catalyst and site-selectivity
directed by common functional groups contained in both the reactant and the
desired product. Here we show that the combination of an iridium-phenanthroline
catalyst and a dihydridosilane reagent leads to the site-selective
γ-functionalization of primary C-H bonds controlled by a hydroxyl group, the most
common functional group in natural products. The scope of the reaction
encompasses alcohols and ketones bearing many substitution patterns and auxiliary
functional groups; this broad scope suggests that this methodology will be
suitable for the site-selective and diastereoselective functionalization of
complex natural products.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10785 
PMID: 22382981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7387):64-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10778.

Biosignatures as revealed by spectropolarimetry of Earthshine.

Sterzik MF(1), Bagnulo S, Palle E.

Author information: 
(1)European Southern Observatory, Alonso de Cordova 3107, Vitacura, Santiago,
Chile. msterzik@eso.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 1;483(7387):38-9.

Low-resolution intensity spectra of Earth's atmosphere obtained from space reveal
strong signatures of life ('biosignatures'), such as molecular oxygen and methane
with abundances far from chemical equilibrium, as well as the presence of a 'red 
edge' (a sharp increase of albedo for wavelengths longer than 700 nm) caused by
surface vegetation. Light passing through the atmosphere is strongly linearly
polarized by scattering (from air molecules, aerosols and cloud particles) and by
reflection (from oceans and land). Spectropolarimetric observations of local
patches of Earth's sky light from the ground contain signatures of oxygen, ozone 
and water, and are used to characterize the properties of clouds and aerosols.
When applied to exoplanets, ground-based spectropolarimetry can better constrain 
properties of atmospheres and surfaces than can standard intensity spectroscopy. 
Here we report disk-integrated linear polarization spectra of Earthshine, which
is sunlight that has been first reflected by Earth and then reflected back to
Earth by the Moon. The observations allow us to determine the fractional
contribution of clouds and ocean surface, and are sensitive to visible areas of
vegetation as small as 10 per cent. They represent a benchmark for the
diagnostics of the atmospheric composition, mean cloud height and surfaces of
exoplanets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10778 
PMID: 22382980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Nature. 2012 Feb 29;483(7387):59-63. doi: 10.1038/nature10883.

Recognition of SUMO-modified PCNA requires tandem receptor motifs in Srs2.

Armstrong AA(1), Mohideen F, Lima CD.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York
10065, USA.

Ubiquitin (Ub) and ubiquitin-like (Ubl) modifiers such as SUMO (also known as
Smt3 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mediate signal transduction through
post-translational modification of substrate proteins in pathways that control
differentiation, apoptosis and the cell cycle, and responses to stress such as
the DNA damage response. In yeast, the proliferating cell nuclear antigen PCNA
(also known as Pol30) is modified by ubiquitin in response to DNA damage and by
SUMO during S phase. Whereas Ub-PCNA can signal for recruitment of translesion
DNA polymerases, SUMO-PCNA signals for recruitment of the anti-recombinogenic DNA
helicase Srs2. It remains unclear how receptors such as Srs2 specifically
recognize substrates after conjugation to Ub and Ubls. Here we show, through
structural, biochemical and functional studies, that the Srs2 carboxy-terminal
domain harbours tandem receptor motifs that interact independently with PCNA and 
SUMO and that both motifs are required to recognize SUMO-PCNA specifically. The
mechanism presented is pertinent to understanding how other receptors
specifically recognize Ub- and Ubl-modified substrates to facilitate signal
transduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10883 
PMCID: PMC3306252
PMID: 22382979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Nature. 2012 Feb 26;483(7388):182-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10846.

Type VI secretion requires a dynamic contractile phage tail-like structure.

Basler M(1), Pilhofer M, Henderson GP, Jensen GJ, Mekalanos JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, 200
Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Apr;10(4):238.

Type VI secretion systems are bacterial virulence-associated nanomachines
composed of proteins that are evolutionarily related to components of
bacteriophage tails. Here we show that protein secretion by the type VI secretion
system of Vibrio cholerae requires the action of a dynamic intracellular tubular 
structure that is structurally and functionally homologous to contractile phage
tail sheath. Time-lapse fluorescence light microscopy reveals that sheaths of the
type VI secretion system cycle between assembly, quick contraction, disassembly
and re-assembly. Whole-cell electron cryotomography further shows that the
sheaths appear as long tubular structures in either extended or contracted
conformations that are connected to the inner membrane by a distinct basal
structure. These data support a model in which the contraction of the type VI
secretion system sheath provides the energy needed to translocate proteins out of
effector cells and into adjacent target cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10846 
PMCID: PMC3527127
PMID: 22367545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nature. 2012 Feb 26;484(7392):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature10856.

A universal model for mobility and migration patterns.

Simini F(1), González MC, Maritan A, Barabási AL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Complex Network Research and Department of Physics, Biology and
Computer Science, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):40-1.

Introduced in its contemporary form in 1946 (ref. 1), but with roots that go back
to the eighteenth century, the gravity law is the prevailing framework with which
to predict population movement, cargo shipping volume and inter-city phone calls,
as well as bilateral trade flows between nations. Despite its widespread use, it 
relies on adjustable parameters that vary from region to region and suffers from 
known analytic inconsistencies. Here we introduce a stochastic process capturing 
local mobility decisions that helps us analytically derive commuting and mobility
fluxes that require as input only information on the population distribution. The
resulting radiation model predicts mobility patterns in good agreement with
mobility and transport patterns observed in a wide range of phenomena, from
long-term migration patterns to communication volume between different regions.
Given its parameter-free nature, the model can be applied in areas where we lack 
previous mobility measurements, significantly improving the predictive accuracy
of most of the phenomena affected by mobility and transport processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10856 
PMID: 22367540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):524-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10834.

Maintenance of muscle stem-cell quiescence by microRNA-489.

Cheung TH(1), Quach NL, Charville GW, Liu L, Park L, Edalati A, Yoo B, Hoang P,
Rando TA.

Author information: 
(1)Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Biology of Aging, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Among the key properties that distinguish adult mammalian stem cells from their
more differentiated progeny is the ability of stem cells to remain in a quiescent
state for prolonged periods of time. However, the molecular pathways for the
maintenance of stem-cell quiescence remain elusive. Here we use adult mouse
muscle stem cells (satellite cells) as a model system and show that the microRNA 
(miRNA) pathway is essential for the maintenance of the quiescent state.
Satellite cells that lack a functional miRNA pathway spontaneously exit
quiescence and enter the cell cycle. We identified quiescence-specific miRNAs in 
the satellite-cell lineage by microarray analysis. Among these, miRNA-489
(miR-489) is highly expressed in quiescent satellite cells and is quickly
downregulated during satellite-cell activation. Further analysis revealed that
miR-489 functions as a regulator of satellite-cell quiescence, as it
post-transcriptionally suppresses the oncogene Dek, the protein product of which 
localizes to the more differentiated daughter cell during asymmetric division of 
satellite cells and promotes the transient proliferative expansion of myogenic
progenitors. Our results provide evidence of the miRNA pathway in general, and of
a specific miRNA, miR-489, in actively maintaining the quiescent state of an
adult stem-cell population.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10834 
PMCID: PMC3292200
PMID: 22358842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):510-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10779.

Wetting of flexible fibre arrays.

Duprat C(1), Protière S, Beebe AY, Stone HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):476.

Fibrous media are functional and versatile materials, as demonstrated by their
ubiquity both in natural systems such as feathers and adhesive pads and in
engineered systems from nanotextured surfaces to textile products, where they
offer benefits in filtration, insulation, wetting and colouring. The elasticity
and high aspect ratios of the fibres allow deformation under capillary forces,
which cause mechanical damage, matting self-assembly or colour changes, with many
industrial and ecological consequences. Attempts to understand these systems have
mostly focused on the wetting of rigid fibres or on elastocapillary effects in
planar geometries and on a fibre brush withdrawn from an infinite bath. Here we
consider the frequently encountered case of a liquid drop deposited on a flexible
fibre array and show that flexibility, fibre geometry and drop volume are the
crucial parameters that are necessary to understand the various observations
referred to above. We identify the conditions required for a drop to remain
compact with minimal spreading or to cause a pair of elastic fibres to coalesce. 
We find that there is a critical volume of liquid, and, hence, a critical drop
size, above which this coalescence does not occur. We also identify a drop size
that maximizes liquid capture. For both wetting and deformation of the
substrates, we present rules that are deduced from the geometric and material
properties of the fibres and the volume of the drop. These ideas are applicable
to a wide range of fibrous materials, as we illustrate with examples for
feathers, beetle tarsi, sprays and microfabricated systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10779 
PMID: 22358841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7387):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10835.

Gain control by layer six in cortical circuits of vision.

Olsen SR(1), Bortone DS, Adesnik H, Scanziani M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior,
Neurobiology Section and Department of Neuroscience, University of California San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA. srolsen@ucsd.edu

After entering the cerebral cortex, sensory information spreads through six
different horizontal neuronal layers that are interconnected by vertical axonal
projections. It is believed that through these projections layers can influence
each other's response to sensory stimuli, but the specific role that each layer
has in cortical processing is still poorly understood. Here we show that layer
six in the primary visual cortex of the mouse has a crucial role in controlling
the gain of visually evoked activity in neurons of the upper layers without
changing their tuning to orientation. This gain modulation results from the
coordinated action of layer six intracortical projections to superficial layers
and deep projections to the thalamus, with a substantial role of the
intracortical circuit. This study establishes layer six as a major mediator of
cortical gain modulation and suggests that it could be a node through which
convergent inputs from several brain areas can regulate the earliest steps of
cortical visual processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10835 
PMCID: PMC3636977
PMID: 22367547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7388):218-21. doi: 10.1038/nature10815.

The sirtuin SIRT6 regulates lifespan in male mice.

Kanfi Y(1), Naiman S, Amir G, Peshti V, Zinman G, Nahum L, Bar-Joseph Z, Cohen
HY.

Author information: 
(1)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University,
Ramat-Gan 52900, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):166-7.

The significant increase in human lifespan during the past century confronts us
with great medical challenges. To meet these challenges, the mechanisms that
determine healthy ageing must be understood and controlled. Sirtuins are highly
conserved deacetylases that have been shown to regulate lifespan in yeast,
nematodes and fruitflies. However, the role of sirtuins in regulating worm and
fly lifespan has recently become controversial. Moreover, the role of the seven
mammalian sirtuins, SIRT1 to SIRT7 (homologues of the yeast sirtuin Sir2), in
regulating lifespan is unclear. Here we show that male, but not female,
transgenic mice overexpressing Sirt6 (ref. 4) have a significantly longer
lifespan than wild-type mice. Gene expression analysis revealed significant
differences between male Sirt6-transgenic mice and male wild-type mice:
transgenic males displayed lower serum levels of insulin-like growth factor 1
(IGF1), higher levels of IGF-binding protein 1 and altered phosphorylation levels
of major components of IGF1 signalling, a key pathway in the regulation of
lifespan. This study shows the regulation of mammalian lifespan by a sirtuin
family member and has important therapeutic implications for age-related
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10815 
PMID: 22367546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7387):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10852.

Circadian rhythms govern cardiac repolarization and arrhythmogenesis.

Jeyaraj D(1), Haldar SM, Wan X, McCauley MD, Ripperger JA, Hu K, Lu Y, Eapen BL, 
Sharma N, Ficker E, Cutler MJ, Gulick J, Sanbe A, Robbins J, Demolombe S,
Kondratov RV, Shea SA, Albrecht U, Wehrens XH, Rosenbaum DS, Jain MK.

Author information: 
(1)Case Cardiovascular Research Institute, Department of Medicine, Case Western
Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.
darwinjeyaraj@gmail.com

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2012 Jun 22;111(1):14-6.

Sudden cardiac death exhibits diurnal variation in both acquired and hereditary
forms of heart disease, but the molecular basis of this variation is unknown. A
common mechanism that underlies susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias is
abnormalities in the duration (for example, short or long QT syndromes and heart 
failure) or pattern (for example, Brugada's syndrome) of myocardial
repolarization. Here we provide molecular evidence that links circadian rhythms
to vulnerability in ventricular arrhythmias in mice. Specifically, we show that
cardiac ion-channel expression and QT-interval duration (an index of myocardial
repolarization) exhibit endogenous circadian rhythmicity under the control of a
clock-dependent oscillator, krüppel-like factor 15 (Klf15). Klf15
transcriptionally controls rhythmic expression of Kv channel-interacting protein 
2 (KChIP2), a critical subunit required for generating the transient outward
potassium current. Deficiency or excess of Klf15 causes loss of rhythmic QT
variation, abnormal repolarization and enhanced susceptibility to ventricular
arrhythmias. These findings identify circadian transcription of ion channels as a
mechanism for cardiac arrhythmogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10852 
PMCID: PMC3297978
PMID: 22367544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7387):67-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10813.

Re-emerging superconductivity at 48 kelvin in iron chalcogenides.

Sun L(1), Chen XJ, Guo J, Gao P, Huang QZ, Wang H, Fang M, Chen X, Chen G, Wu Q, 
Zhang C, Gu D, Dong X, Wang L, Yang K, Li A, Dai X, Mao HK, Zhao Z.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics and Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China.

Pressure has an essential role in the production and control of superconductivity
in iron-based superconductors. Substitution of a large cation by a smaller
rare-earth ion to simulate the pressure effect has raised the superconducting
transition temperature T(c) to a record high of 55 K in these materials. In the
same way as T(c) exhibits a bell-shaped curve of dependence on chemical doping,
pressure-tuned T(c) typically drops monotonically after passing the optimal
pressure. Here we report that in the superconducting iron chalcogenides, a second
superconducting phase suddenly re-emerges above 11.5 GPa, after the T(c) drops
from the first maximum of 32 K at 1 GPa. The T(c) of the re-emerging
superconducting phase is considerably higher than the first maximum, reaching
48.0-48.7 K for Tl(0.6)Rb(0.4)Fe(1.67)Se(2), K(0.8)Fe(1.7)Se(2) and
K(0.8)Fe(1.78)Se(2).

DOI: 10.1038/nature10813 
PMID: 22367543 


771. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7387):82-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10843.

Strict evolutionary conservation followed rapid gene loss on human and rhesus Y
chromosomes.

Hughes JF(1), Skaletsky H, Brown LG, Pyntikova T, Graves T, Fulton RS, Dugan S,
Ding Y, Buhay CJ, Kremitzki C, Wang Q, Shen H, Holder M, Villasana D, Nazareth
LV, Cree A, Courtney L, Veizer J, Kotkiewicz H, Cho TJ, Koutseva N, Rozen S,
Muzny DM, Warren WC, Gibbs RA, Wilson RK, Page DC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
jhughes@wi.mit.edu

The human X and Y chromosomes evolved from an ordinary pair of autosomes during
the past 200-300 million years. The human MSY (male-specific region of Y
chromosome) retains only three percent of the ancestral autosomes' genes owing to
genetic decay. This evolutionary decay was driven by a series of five
'stratification' events. Each event suppressed X-Y crossing over within a
chromosome segment or 'stratum', incorporated that segment into the MSY and
subjected its genes to the erosive forces that attend the absence of crossing
over. The last of these events occurred 30 million years ago, 5 million years
before the human and Old World monkey lineages diverged. Although speculation
abounds regarding ongoing decay and looming extinction of the human Y chromosome,
remarkably little is known about how many MSY genes were lost in the human
lineage in the 25 million years that have followed its separation from the Old
World monkey lineage. To investigate this question, we sequenced the MSY of the
rhesus macaque, an Old World monkey, and compared it to the human MSY. We
discovered that during the last 25 million years MSY gene loss in the human
lineage was limited to the youngest stratum (stratum 5), which comprises three
percent of the human MSY. In the older strata, which collectively comprise the
bulk of the human MSY, gene loss evidently ceased more than 25 million years ago.
Likewise, the rhesus MSY has not lost any older genes (from strata 1-4) during
the past 25 million years, despite its major structural differences to the human 
MSY. The rhesus MSY is simpler, with few amplified gene families or palindromes
that might enable intrachromosomal recombination and repair. We present an
empirical reconstruction of human MSY evolution in which each stratum
transitioned from rapid, exponential loss of ancestral genes to strict
conservation through purifying selection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10843 
PMCID: PMC3292678
PMID: 22367542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;485(7396):55-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10912.

The translational landscape of mTOR signalling steers cancer initiation and
metastasis.

Hsieh AC(1), Liu Y, Edlind MP, Ingolia NT, Janes MR, Sher A, Shi EY, Stumpf CR,
Christensen C, Bonham MJ, Wang S, Ren P, Martin M, Jessen K, Feldman ME, Weissman
JS, Shokat KM, Rommel C, Ruggero D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine and Department of Urology, Helen Diller Family
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San Francisco, California 
94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 May 3;485(7396):50-1.

The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) kinase is a master regulator of protein 
synthesis that couples nutrient sensing to cell growth and cancer. However, the
downstream translationally regulated nodes of gene expression that may direct
cancer development are poorly characterized. Using ribosome profiling, we uncover
specialized translation of the prostate cancer genome by oncogenic mTOR
signalling, revealing a remarkably specific repertoire of genes involved in cell 
proliferation, metabolism and invasion. We extend these findings by functionally 
characterizing a class of translationally controlled pro-invasion messenger RNAs 
that we show direct prostate cancer invasion and metastasis downstream of
oncogenic mTOR signalling. Furthermore, we develop a clinically relevant ATP site
inhibitor of mTOR, INK128, which reprograms this gene expression signature with
therapeutic benefit for prostate cancer metastasis, for which there is presently 
no cure. Together, these findings extend our understanding of how the 'cancerous'
translation machinery steers specific cancer cell behaviours, including
metastasis, and may be therapeutically targeted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10912 
PMCID: PMC3663483
PMID: 22367541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7391):618-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10911.

The mechanism of OTUB1-mediated inhibition of ubiquitination.

Wiener R(1), Zhang X, Wang T, Wolberger C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biophysical Chemistry and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA.

Histones are ubiquitinated in response to DNA double-strand breaks (DSB),
promoting recruitment of repair proteins to chromatin. UBC13 (also known as
UBE2N) is a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) that heterodimerizes with UEV1A
(also known as UBE2V1) and synthesizes K63-linked polyubiquitin (K63Ub) chains at
DSB sites in concert with the ubiquitin ligase (E3), RNF168 (ref. 3). K63Ub
synthesis is regulated in a non-canonical manner by the deubiquitinating enzyme, 
OTUB1 (OTU domain-containing ubiquitin aldehyde-binding protein 1), which binds
preferentially to the UBC13∼Ub thiolester. Residues amino-terminal to the OTU
domain, which had been implicated in ubiquitin binding, are required for binding 
to UBC13∼Ub and inhibition of K63Ub synthesis. Here we describe structural and
biochemical studies elucidating how OTUB1 inhibits UBC13 and other E2 enzymes. We
unexpectedly find that OTUB1 binding to UBC13∼Ub is allosterically regulated by
free ubiquitin, which binds to a second site in OTUB1 and increases its affinity 
for UBC13∼Ub, while at the same time disrupting interactions with UEV1A in a
manner that depends on the OTUB1 N terminus. Crystal structures of an OTUB1-UBC13
complex and of OTUB1 bound to ubiquitin aldehyde and a chemical UBC13∼Ub
conjugate show that binding of free ubiquitin to OTUB1 triggers conformational
changes in the OTU domain and formation of a ubiquitin-binding helix in the N
terminus, thus promoting binding of the conjugated donor ubiquitin in UBC13∼Ub to
OTUB1. The donor ubiquitin thus cannot interact with the E2 enzyme, which has
been shown to be important for ubiquitin transfer. The N-terminal helix of OTUB1 
is positioned to interfere with UEV1A binding to UBC13, as well as with attack on
the thiolester by an acceptor ubiquitin, thereby inhibiting K63Ub synthesis.
OTUB1 binding also occludes the RING E3 binding site on UBC13, thus providing a
further component of inhibition. The general features of the inhibition mechanism
explain how OTUB1 inhibits other E2 enzymes in a non-catalytic manner.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10911 
PMCID: PMC3319311
PMID: 22367539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;483(7391):589-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10910.

Sequencing of neuroblastoma identifies chromothripsis and defects in
neuritogenesis genes.

Molenaar JJ(1), Koster J, Zwijnenburg DA, van Sluis P, Valentijn LJ, van der
Ploeg I, Hamdi M, van Nes J, Westerman BA, van Arkel J, Ebus ME, Haneveld F,
Lakeman A, Schild L, Molenaar P, Stroeken P, van Noesel MM, Ora I, Santo EE,
Caron HN, Westerhout EM, Versteeg R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncogenomics, Academic Medical Center, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. j.j.molenaar@amc.uva.nl

Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumour of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system.
The pathogenesis has for a long time been quite enigmatic, as only very few gene 
defects were identified in this often lethal tumour. Frequently detected gene
alterations are limited to MYCN amplification (20%) and ALK activations (7%).
Here we present a whole-genome sequence analysis of 87 neuroblastoma of all
stages. Few recurrent amino-acid-changing mutations were found. In contrast,
analysis of structural defects identified a local shredding of chromosomes, known
as chromothripsis, in 18% of high-stage neuroblastoma. These tumours are
associated with a poor outcome. Structural alterations recurrently affected ODZ3,
PTPRD and CSMD1, which are involved in neuronal growth cone stabilization. In
addition, ATRX, TIAM1 and a series of regulators of the Rac/Rho pathway were
mutated, further implicating defects in neuritogenesis in neuroblastoma. Most
tumours with defects in these genes were aggressive high-stage neuroblastomas,
but did not carry MYCN amplifications. The genomic landscape of neuroblastoma
therefore reveals two novel molecular defects, chromothripsis and neuritogenesis 
gene alterations, which frequently occur in high-risk tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10910 
PMID: 22367537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):E4-5; author reply E5-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10858.

Extinction and climate change.

Thomas CD(1), Williamson M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of York, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD, UK.
chris.thomas@york.ac.uk

Comment on
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):368-71.

Arising from F. He & S. P. Hubbell 473, 368-371 (2011). Statistical relationships
between habitat area and the number of species observed (species-area
relationships, SARs) are sometimes used to assess extinction risks following
habitat destruction or loss of climatic suitability. He and Hubbell argue that
the numbers of species confined to-rather than observed in-different areas
(endemics-area relationships, EARs) should be used instead of SARs, and that
SAR-based extinction estimates in the literature are too high. We suggest that He
and Hubbell's SAR estimates are biased, that the empirical data they use are not 
appropriate to calculate extinction risks, and that their statements about
extinction risks from climate change do not take into account non-SAR-based
estimates or recent observations. Species have already responded to climate
change in a manner consistent with high future extinction risks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10858 
PMID: 22358847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):E3-4; author reply E5-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10857.

Geometry and scale in species-area relationships.

Pereira HM(1), Borda-de-Água L, Martins IS.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biologia Ambiental, Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa,
1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal. hpereira@fc.ul.pt

Comment on
    Nature. 2011 May 19;473(7347):368-71.

Arising from F. He & S. P. Hubbell 473, 368-371 (2011). He and Hubbell developed 
a sampling theory for the species-area relationship (SAR) and the endemics-area
relationship (EAR). They argued that the number of extinctions after habitat loss
is described by the EAR and that extinction rates in previous studies are
overestimates because the EAR is always lower than the SAR. Here we show that
their conclusion is not general and depends on the geometry of habitat
destruction and the scale of the SAR. We also question their critique of the
Millennium Ecosystem Assessment estimates, as those estimates are not dependent
on the SAR only, although important uncertainties remain due to other
methodological issues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10857 
PMID: 22358846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):552-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10867.

Structure and dynamics of the M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor.

Kruse AC(1), Hu J, Pan AC, Arlow DH, Rosenbaum DM, Rosemond E, Green HF, Liu T,
Chae PS, Dror RO, Shaw DE, Weis WI, Wess J, Kobilka BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 279 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):480-1.

Acetylcholine, the first neurotransmitter to be identified, exerts many of its
physiological actions via activation of a family of G-protein-coupled receptors
(GPCRs) known as muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs). Although the five
mAChR subtypes (M1-M5) share a high degree of sequence homology, they show
pronounced differences in G-protein coupling preference and the physiological
responses they mediate. Unfortunately, despite decades of effort, no therapeutic 
agents endowed with clear mAChR subtype selectivity have been developed to
exploit these differences. We describe here the structure of the G(q/11)-coupled 
M3 mAChR ('M3 receptor', from rat) bound to the bronchodilator drug tiotropium
and identify the binding mode for this clinically important drug. This structure,
together with that of the G(i/o)-coupled M2 receptor, offers possibilities for
the design of mAChR subtype-selective ligands. Importantly, the M3 receptor
structure allows a structural comparison between two members of a mammalian GPCR 
subfamily displaying different G-protein coupling selectivities. Furthermore,
molecular dynamics simulations suggest that tiotropium binds transiently to an
allosteric site en route to the binding pocket of both receptors. These
simulations offer a structural view of an allosteric binding mode for an
orthosteric GPCR ligand and provide additional opportunities for the design of
ligands with different affinities or binding kinetics for different mAChR
subtypes. Our findings not only offer insights into the structure and function of
one of the most important GPCR families, but may also facilitate the design of
improved therapeutics targeting these critical receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10867 
PMCID: PMC3529910
PMID: 22358844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):538-41. doi: 10.1038/nature10790.

Deleted in colorectal carcinoma suppresses metastasis in p53-deficient mammary
tumours.

Krimpenfort P(1), Song JY, Proost N, Zevenhoven J, Jonkers J, Berns A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Genetics, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1066 CX
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Since its discovery in the early 1990s the deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC)
gene, located on chromosome 18q21, has been proposed as a tumour suppressor gene 
as its loss is implicated in the majority of advanced colorectal and many other
cancers. DCC belongs to the family of netrin 1 receptors, which function as
dependence receptors as they control survival or apoptosis depending on ligand
binding. However, the role of DCC as a tumour suppressor remains controversial
because of the rarity of DCC-specific mutations and the presence of other tumour 
suppressor genes in the same chromosomal region. Here we show that in a mouse
model of mammary carcinoma based on somatic inactivation of p53, additional loss 
of DCC promotes metastasis formation without affecting the primary tumour
phenotype. Furthermore, we demonstrate that in cell cultures derived from
p53-deficient mouse mammary tumours DCC expression controls netrin-1-dependent
cell survival, providing a mechanistic basis for the enhanced metastatic capacity
of tumour cells lacking DCC. Consistent with this idea, in vivo tumour-cell
survival is enhanced by DCC loss. Together, our data support the function of DCC 
as a context-dependent tumour suppressor that limits survival of disseminated
tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10790 
PMID: 22358843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):501-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10829.

Structural basis of highly conserved ribosome recycling in eukaryotes and
archaea.

Becker T(1), Franckenberg S, Wickles S, Shoemaker CJ, Anger AM, Armache JP,
Sieber H, Ungewickell C, Berninghausen O, Daberkow I, Karcher A, Thomm M, Hopfner
KP, Green R, Beckmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Center and Center for integrated Protein Science Munich, Department of
Biochemistry, University of Munich, Feodor-Lynen-Straße 25, 81377 Munich,
Germany. becker@lmb.uni-muenchen.de

Ribosome-driven protein biosynthesis is comprised of four phases: initiation,
elongation, termination and recycling. In bacteria, ribosome recycling requires
ribosome recycling factor and elongation factor G, and several structures of
bacterial recycling complexes have been determined. In the eukaryotic and
archaeal kingdoms, however, recycling involves the ABC-type ATPase ABCE1 and
little is known about its structural basis. Here we present cryo-electron
microscopy reconstructions of eukaryotic and archaeal ribosome recycling
complexes containing ABCE1 and the termination factor paralogue Pelota. These
structures reveal the overall binding mode of ABCE1 to be similar to canonical
translation factors. Moreover, the iron-sulphur cluster domain of ABCE1 interacts
with and stabilizes Pelota in a conformation that reaches towards the peptidyl
transferase centre, thus explaining how ABCE1 may stimulate peptide-release
activity of canonical termination factors. Using the mechanochemical properties
of ABCE1, a conserved mechanism in archaea and eukaryotes is suggested that
couples translation termination to recycling, and eventually to re-initiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10829 
PMID: 22358840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):495-500. doi: 10.1038/nature10822.

Ubiquitin-dependent regulation of COPII coat size and function.

Jin L(1), Pahuja KB, Wickliffe KE, Gorur A, Baumgärtel C, Schekman R, Rape M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California at
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):474-5.
    Cell. 2012 Mar 30;149(1):20-1.

Packaging of proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum into COPII vesicles is
essential for secretion. In cells, most COPII vesicles are approximately 60-80 nm
in diameter, yet some must increase their size to accommodate 300-400 nm
procollagen fibres or chylomicrons. Impaired COPII function results in collagen
deposition defects, cranio-lenticulo-sutural dysplasia, or chylomicron retention 
disease, but mechanisms to enlarge COPII coats have remained elusive. Here, we
identified the ubiquitin ligase CUL3-KLHL12 as a regulator of COPII coat
formation. CUL3-KLHL12 catalyses the monoubiquitylation of the COPII-component
SEC31 and drives the assembly of large COPII coats. As a result, ubiquitylation
by CUL3-KLHL12 is essential for collagen export, yet less important for the
transport of small cargo. We conclude that monoubiquitylation controls the size
and function of a vesicle coat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10822 
PMCID: PMC3292188
PMID: 22358839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):489-94. doi: 10.1038/nature10770.

Experimental demonstration of topological error correction.

Yao XC(1), Wang TX, Chen HZ, Gao WB, Fowler AG, Raussendorf R, Chen ZB, Liu NL,
Lu CY, Deng YJ, Chen YA, Pan JW.

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Branch, National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale and
Department of Modern Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Shanghai 201315, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):478-80.

Scalable quantum computing can be achieved only if quantum bits are manipulated
in a fault-tolerant fashion. Topological error correction--a method that combines
topological quantum computation with quantum error correction--has the highest
known tolerable error rate for a local architecture. The technique makes use of
cluster states with topological properties and requires only nearest-neighbour
interactions. Here we report the experimental demonstration of topological error 
correction with an eight-photon cluster state. We show that a correlation can be 
protected against a single error on any quantum bit. Also, when all quantum bits 
are simultaneously subjected to errors with equal probability, the effective
error rate can be significantly reduced. Our work demonstrates the viability of
topological error correction for fault-tolerant quantum information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10770 
PMID: 22358838 


782. Nature. 2012 Feb 22;482(7386):485-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10836.

The case for open computer programs.

Ince DC(1), Hatton L, Graham-Cumming J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computing Open University, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes MK7 6AA,
UK. d.c.ince@open.ac.uk

Scientific communication relies on evidence that cannot be entirely included in
publications, but the rise of computational science has added a new layer of
inaccessibility. Although it is now accepted that data should be made available
on request, the current regulations regarding the availability of software are
inconsistent. We argue that, with some exceptions, anything less than the release
of source programs is intolerable for results that depend on computation. The
vagaries of hardware, software and natural language will always ensure that exact
reproducibility remains uncertain, but withholding code increases the chances
that efforts to reproduce results will fail.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10836 
PMID: 22358837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2012 Feb 19;483(7388):176-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10812.

Piezo proteins are pore-forming subunits of mechanically activated channels.

Coste B(1), Xiao B, Santos JS, Syeda R, Grandl J, Spencer KS, Kim SE, Schmidt M, 
Mathur J, Dubin AE, Montal M, Patapoutian A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):163-4.

Mechanotransduction has an important role in physiology. Biological processes
including sensing touch and sound waves require as-yet-unidentified cation
channels that detect pressure. Mouse Piezo1 (MmPiezo1) and MmPiezo2 (also called 
Fam38a and Fam38b, respectively) induce mechanically activated cationic currents 
in cells; however, it is unknown whether Piezo proteins are pore-forming ion
channels or modulate ion channels. Here we show that Drosophila melanogaster
Piezo (DmPiezo, also called CG8486) also induces mechanically activated currents 
in cells, but through channels with remarkably distinct pore properties including
sensitivity to the pore blocker ruthenium red and single channel conductances.
MmPiezo1 assembles as a ∼1.2-million-dalton homo-oligomer, with no evidence of
other proteins in this complex. Purified MmPiezo1 reconstituted into asymmetric
lipid bilayers and liposomes forms ruthenium-red-sensitive ion channels. These
data demonstrate that Piezo proteins are an evolutionarily conserved ion channel 
family involved in mechanotransduction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10812 
PMCID: PMC3297710
PMID: 22343900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2012 Feb 19;483(7389):350-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10798.

Dysfunction of lipid sensor GPR120 leads to obesity in both mouse and human.

Ichimura A(1), Hirasawa A, Poulain-Godefroy O, Bonnefond A, Hara T, Yengo L,
Kimura I, Leloire A, Liu N, Iida K, Choquet H, Besnard P, Lecoeur C, Vivequin S, 
Ayukawa K, Takeuchi M, Ozawa K, Tauber M, Maffeis C, Morandi A, Buzzetti R,
Elliott P, Pouta A, Jarvelin MR, Körner A, Kiess W, Pigeyre M, Caiazzo R, Van Hul
W, Van Gaal L, Horber F, Balkau B, Lévy-Marchal C, Rouskas K, Kouvatsi A,
Hebebrand J, Hinney A, Scherag A, Pattou F, Meyre D, Koshimizu TA, Wolowczuk I,
Tsujimoto G, Froguel P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genomic Drug Discovery Science, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Apr;9(4):187.

Free fatty acids provide an important energy source as nutrients, and act as
signalling molecules in various cellular processes. Several G-protein-coupled
receptors have been identified as free-fatty-acid receptors important in
physiology as well as in several diseases. GPR120 (also known as O3FAR1)
functions as a receptor for unsaturated long-chain free fatty acids and has a
critical role in various physiological homeostasis mechanisms such as
adipogenesis, regulation of appetite and food preference. Here we show that
GPR120-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet develop obesity, glucose intolerance
and fatty liver with decreased adipocyte differentiation and lipogenesis and
enhanced hepatic lipogenesis. Insulin resistance in such mice is associated with 
reduced insulin signalling and enhanced inflammation in adipose tissue. In human,
we show that GPR120 expression in adipose tissue is significantly higher in obese
individuals than in lean controls. GPR120 exon sequencing in obese subjects
reveals a deleterious non-synonymous mutation (p.R270H) that inhibits GPR120
signalling activity. Furthermore, the p.R270H variant increases the risk of
obesity in European populations. Overall, this study demonstrates that the lipid 
sensor GPR120 has a key role in sensing dietary fat and, therefore, in the
control of energy balance in both humans and rodents.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10798 
PMID: 22343897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2012 Feb 19;483(7387):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10792.

Opposite effects of fear conditioning and extinction on dendritic spine
remodelling.

Lai CS(1), Franke TF, Gan WB.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Program, Skirball Institute, Department of Physiology
and Neuroscience, New York University School of Medicine, 540 First Avenue, New
York, New York 10016, USA.

It is generally believed that fear extinction is a form of new learning that
inhibits rather than erases previously acquired fear memories. Although this view
has gained much support from behavioural and electrophysiological studies, the
hypothesis that extinction causes the partial erasure of fear memories remains
viable. Using transcranial two-photon microscopy, we investigated how neural
circuits are modified by fear learning and extinction by examining the formation 
and elimination of postsynaptic dendritic spines of layer-V pyramidal neurons in 
the mouse frontal association cortex. Here we show that fear conditioning by
pairing an auditory cue with a footshock increases the rate of spine elimination.
By contrast, fear extinction by repeated presentation of the same auditory cue
without a footshock increases the rate of spine formation. The degrees of spine
remodelling induced by fear conditioning and extinction strongly correlate with
the expression and extinction of conditioned fear responses, respectively.
Notably, spine elimination and formation induced by fear conditioning and
extinction occur on the same dendritic branches in a cue- and location-specific
manner: cue-specific extinction causes formation of dendritic spines within a
distance of two micrometres from spines that were eliminated after fear
conditioning. Furthermore, reconditioning preferentially induces elimination of
dendritic spines that were formed after extinction. Thus, within vastly complex
neuronal networks, fear conditioning, extinction and reconditioning lead to
opposing changes at the level of individual synapses. These findings also suggest
that fear memory traces are partially erased after extinction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10792 
PMID: 22343895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2012 Feb 19;483(7388):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10832.

Stability criteria for complex ecosystems.

Allesina S(1), Tang S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, 1101 East 57th
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. sallesina@uchicago.edu

Forty years ago, May proved that sufficiently large or complex ecological
networks have a probability of persisting that is close to zero, contrary to
previous expectations. May analysed large networks in which species interact at
random. However, in natural systems pairs of species have well-defined
interactions (for example predator-prey, mutualistic or competitive). Here we
extend May's results to these relationships and find remarkable differences
between predator-prey interactions, which are stabilizing, and mutualistic and
competitive interactions, which are destabilizing. We provide analytic stability 
criteria for all cases. We use the criteria to prove that, counterintuitively,
the probability of stability for predator-prey networks decreases when a
realistic food web structure is imposed or if there is a large preponderance of
weak interactions. Similarly, stability is negatively affected by nestedness in
bipartite mutualistic networks. These results are found by separating the
contribution of network structure and interaction strengths to stability. Stable 
predator-prey networks can be arbitrarily large and complex, provided that
predator-prey pairs are tightly coupled. The stability criteria are widely
applicable, because they hold for any system of differential equations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10832 
PMID: 22343894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Nature. 2012 Feb 19;483(7387):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10844.

Repetitive motor learning induces coordinated formation of clustered dendritic
spines in vivo.

Fu M(1), Yu X, Lu J, Zuo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.

Many lines of evidence suggest that memory in the mammalian brain is stored with 
distinct spatiotemporal patterns. Despite recent progresses in identifying
neuronal populations involved in memory coding, the synapse-level mechanism is
still poorly understood. Computational models and electrophysiological data have 
shown that functional clustering of synapses along dendritic branches leads to
nonlinear summation of synaptic inputs and greatly expands the computing power of
a neural network. However, whether neighbouring synapses are involved in encoding
similar memory and how task-specific cortical networks develop during learning
remain elusive. Using transcranial two-photon microscopy, we followed apical
dendrites of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the motor cortex while mice practised
novel forelimb skills. Here we show that a third of new dendritic spines
(postsynaptic structures of most excitatory synapses) formed during the
acquisition phase of learning emerge in clusters, and that most such clusters are
neighbouring spine pairs. These clustered new spines are more likely to persist
throughout prolonged learning sessions, and even long after training stops, than 
non-clustered counterparts. Moreover, formation of new spine clusters requires
repetition of the same motor task, and the emergence of succedent new spine(s)
accompanies the strengthening of the first new spine in the cluster. We also show
that under control conditions new spines appear to avoid existing stable spines, 
rather than being uniformly added along dendrites. However, succedent new spines 
in clusters overcome such a spatial constraint and form in close vicinity to
neighbouring stable spines. Our findings suggest that clustering of new synapses 
along dendrites is induced by repetitive activation of the cortical circuitry
during learning, providing a structural basis for spatial coding of motor memory 
in the mammalian brain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10844 
PMCID: PMC3292711
PMID: 22343892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Nature. 2012 Feb 19;483(7388):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10801.

The role of Drosophila Piezo in mechanical nociception.

Kim SE(1), Coste B, Chadha A, Cook B, Patapoutian A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):163-4.

Transduction of mechanical stimuli by receptor cells is essential for senses such
as hearing, touch and pain. Ion channels have a role in neuronal
mechanotransduction in invertebrates; however, functional conservation of these
ion channels in mammalian mechanotransduction is not observed. For example, no
mechanoreceptor potential C (NOMPC), a member of transient receptor potential
(TRP) ion channel family, acts as a mechanotransducer in Drosophila melanogaster 
and Caenorhabditis elegans; however, it has no orthologues in mammals.
Degenerin/epithelial sodium channel (DEG/ENaC) family members are
mechanotransducers in C. elegans and potentially in D. melanogaster; however, a
direct role of its mammalian homologues in sensing mechanical force has not been 
shown. Recently, Piezo1 (also known as Fam38a) and Piezo2 (also known as Fam38b) 
were identified as components of mechanically activated channels in mammals. The 
Piezo family are evolutionarily conserved transmembrane proteins. It is unknown
whether they function in mechanical sensing in vivo and, if they do, which
mechanosensory modalities they mediate. Here we study the physiological role of
the single Piezo member in D. melanogaster (Dmpiezo; also known as CG8486).
Dmpiezo expression in human cells induces mechanically activated currents,
similar to its mammalian counterparts. Behavioural responses to noxious
mechanical stimuli were severely reduced in Dmpiezo knockout larvae, whereas
responses to another noxious stimulus or touch were not affected. Knocking down
Dmpiezo in sensory neurons that mediate nociception and express the DEG/ENaC ion 
channel pickpocket (ppk) was sufficient to impair responses to noxious mechanical
stimuli. Furthermore, expression of Dmpiezo in these same neurons rescued the
phenotype of the constitutive Dmpiezo knockout larvae. Accordingly,
electrophysiological recordings from ppk-positive neurons revealed a
Dmpiezo-dependent, mechanically activated current. Finally, we found that Dmpiezo
and ppk function in parallel pathways in ppk-positive cells, and that mechanical 
nociception is abolished in the absence of both channels. These data demonstrate 
the physiological relevance of the Piezo family in mechanotransduction in vivo,
supporting a role of Piezo proteins in mechanosensory nociception.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10801 
PMCID: PMC3297676
PMID: 22343891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;483(7390):474-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10860.

IDH mutation impairs histone demethylation and results in a block to cell
differentiation.

Lu C(1), Ward PS, Kapoor GS, Rohle D, Turcan S, Abdel-Wahab O, Edwards CR, Khanin
R, Figueroa ME, Melnick A, Wellen KE, O'Rourke DM, Berger SL, Chan TA, Levine RL,
Mellinghoff IK, Thompson CB.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Apr;12(4):229.

Recurrent mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) and IDH2 have been
identified in gliomas, acute myeloid leukaemias (AML) and chondrosarcomas, and
share a novel enzymatic property of producing 2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG) from
α-ketoglutarate. Here we report that 2HG-producing IDH mutants can prevent the
histone demethylation that is required for lineage-specific progenitor cells to
differentiate into terminally differentiated cells. In tumour samples from glioma
patients, IDH mutations were associated with a distinct gene expression profile
enriched for genes expressed in neural progenitor cells, and this was associated 
with increased histone methylation. To test whether the ability of IDH mutants to
promote histone methylation contributes to a block in cell differentiation in
non-transformed cells, we tested the effect of neomorphic IDH mutants on
adipocyte differentiation in vitro. Introduction of either mutant IDH or
cell-permeable 2HG was associated with repression of the inducible expression of 
lineage-specific differentiation genes and a block to differentiation. This
correlated with a significant increase in repressive histone methylation marks
without observable changes in promoter DNA methylation. Gliomas were found to
have elevated levels of similar histone repressive marks. Stable transfection of 
a 2HG-producing mutant IDH into immortalized astrocytes resulted in progressive
accumulation of histone methylation. Of the marks examined, increased H3K9
methylation reproducibly preceded a rise in DNA methylation as cells were
passaged in culture. Furthermore, we found that the 2HG-inhibitable H3K9
demethylase KDM4C was induced during adipocyte differentiation, and that
RNA-interference suppression of KDM4C was sufficient to block differentiation.
Together these data demonstrate that 2HG can inhibit histone demethylation and
that inhibition of histone demethylation can be sufficient to block the
differentiation of non-transformed cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10860 
PMCID: PMC3478770
PMID: 22343901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7386):519-23. doi: 10.1038/nature10810.

The microRNA miR-34 modulates ageing and neurodegeneration in Drosophila.

Liu N(1), Landreh M, Cao K, Abe M, Hendriks GJ, Kennerdell JR, Zhu Y, Wang LS,
Bonini NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Apr;13(4):222.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Apr;13(4):222.

Human neurodegenerative diseases have the temporal hallmark of afflicting the
elderly population. Ageing is one of the most prominent factors to influence
disease onset and progression, yet little is known about the molecular pathways
that connect these processes. To understand this connection it is necessary to
identify the pathways that functionally integrate ageing, chronic maintenance of 
the brain and modulation of neurodegenerative disease. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are
emerging as critical factors in gene regulation during development; however,
their role in adult-onset, age-associated processes is only beginning to be
revealed. Here we report that the conserved miRNA miR-34 regulates age-associated
events and long-term brain integrity in Drosophila, providing a molecular link
between ageing and neurodegeneration. Fly mir-34 expression exhibits adult-onset,
brain-enriched and age-modulated characteristics. Whereas mir-34 loss triggers a 
gene profile of accelerated brain ageing, late-onset brain degeneration and a
catastrophic decline in survival, mir-34 upregulation extends median lifespan and
mitigates neurodegeneration induced by human pathogenic polyglutamine disease
protein. Some of the age-associated effects of miR-34 require adult-onset
translational repression of Eip74EF, an essential ETS domain transcription factor
involved in steroid hormone pathways. Our studies indicate that miRNA-dependent
pathways may have an impact on adult-onset, age-associated events by silencing
developmental genes that later have a deleterious influence on adult life cycle
and disease, and highlight fly miR-34 as a key miRNA with a role in this process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10810 
PMCID: PMC3326599
PMID: 22343898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;483(7390):484-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10898.

Transformation by the (R)-enantiomer of 2-hydroxyglutarate linked to EGLN
activation.

Koivunen P(1), Lee S, Duncan CG, Lopez G, Lu G, Ramkissoon S, Losman JA, Joensuu 
P, Bergmann U, Gross S, Travins J, Weiss S, Looper R, Ligon KL, Verhaak RG, Yan
H, Kaelin WG Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Biocenter Oulu, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Oulu
Center for Cell-Matrix Research, University of Oulu, FIN-90014 Oulu, Finland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Apr;12(4):229.

The identification of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), fumarate hydratase (FH) and 
isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutations in human cancers has rekindled the idea 
that altered cellular metabolism can transform cells. Inactivating SDH and FH
mutations cause the accumulation of succinate and fumarate, respectively, which
can inhibit 2-oxoglutarate (2-OG)-dependent enzymes, including the EGLN prolyl
4-hydroxylases that mark the hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) transcription factor 
for polyubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation. Inappropriate HIF activation 
is suspected of contributing to the pathogenesis of SDH-defective and
FH-defective tumours but can suppress tumour growth in some other contexts. IDH1 
and IDH2, which catalyse the interconversion of isocitrate and 2-OG, are
frequently mutated in human brain tumours and leukaemias. The resulting mutants
have the neomorphic ability to convert 2-OG to the (R)-enantiomer of
2-hydroxyglutarate ((R)-2HG). Here we show that (R)-2HG, but not (S)-2HG,
stimulates EGLN activity, leading to diminished HIF levels, which enhances the
proliferation and soft agar growth of human astrocytes. These findings define an 
enantiomer-specific mechanism by which the (R)-2HG that accumulates in IDH mutant
brain tumours promotes transformation and provide a justification for exploring
EGLN inhibition as a potential treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10898 
PMCID: PMC3656605
PMID: 22343896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7386):507-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10793.

Abrupt acceleration of a 'cold' ultrarelativistic wind from the Crab pulsar.

Aharonian FA(1), Bogovalov SV, Khangulyan D.

Author information: 
(1)Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies, School of Cosmic Physics, 31
Fitzwilliam Place, Dublin 2, Ireland. felix.aharonian@dias.ie

Pulsars are thought to eject electron-positron winds that energize the
surrounding environment, with the formation of a pulsar wind nebula. The pulsar
wind originates close to the light cylinder, the surface at which the pulsar
co-rotation velocity equals the speed of light, and carries away much of the
rotational energy lost by the pulsar. Initially the wind is dominated by
electromagnetic energy (Poynting flux) but later this is converted to the kinetic
energy of bulk motion. It is unclear exactly where this takes place and to what
speed the wind is accelerated. Although some preferred models imply a gradual
acceleration over the entire distance from the magnetosphere to the point at
which the wind terminates, a rapid acceleration close to the light cylinder
cannot be excluded. Here we report that the recent observations of pulsed, very
high-energy γ-ray emission from the Crab pulsar are explained by the presence of 
a cold (in the sense of the low energy of the electrons in the frame of the
moving plasma) ultrarelativistic wind dominated by kinetic energy. The conversion
of the Poynting flux to kinetic energy should take place abruptly in the narrow
cylindrical zone of radius between 20 and 50 light-cylinder radii centred on the 
axis of rotation of the pulsar, and should accelerate the wind to a Lorentz
factor of (0.5-1.0) × 10(6). Although the ultrarelativistic nature of the wind
does support the general model of pulsars, the requirement of the very high
acceleration of the wind in a narrow zone not far from the light cylinder
challenges current models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10793 
PMID: 22343893 


793. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7386):529-33. doi: 10.1038/nature10825.

Clonal selection drives genetic divergence of metastatic medulloblastoma.

Wu X(1), Northcott PA, Dubuc A, Dupuy AJ, Shih DJ, Witt H, Croul S, Bouffet E,
Fults DW, Eberhart CG, Garzia L, Van Meter T, Zagzag D, Jabado N,
Schwartzentruber J, Majewski J, Scheetz TE, Pfister SM, Korshunov A, Li XN,
Scherer SW, Cho YJ, Akagi K, MacDonald TJ, Koster J, McCabe MG, Sarver AL,
Collins VP, Weiss WA, Largaespada DA, Collier LS, Taylor MD.

Author information: 
(1)Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain Tumour Research Center, Program in Developmental
and Stem Cell Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):481-2.

Medulloblastoma, the most common malignant paediatric brain tumour, arises in the
cerebellum and disseminates through the cerebrospinal fluid in the leptomeningeal
space to coat the brain and spinal cord. Dissemination, a marker of poor
prognosis, is found in up to 40% of children at diagnosis and in most children at
the time of recurrence. Affected children therefore are treated with radiation to
the entire developing brain and spinal cord, followed by high-dose chemotherapy, 
with the ensuing deleterious effects on the developing nervous system. The
mechanisms of dissemination through the cerebrospinal fluid are poorly studied,
and medulloblastoma metastases have been assumed to be biologically similar to
the primary tumour. Here we show that in both mouse and human medulloblastoma,
the metastases from an individual are extremely similar to each other but are
divergent from the matched primary tumour. Clonal genetic events in the
metastases can be demonstrated in a restricted subclone of the primary tumour,
suggesting that only rare cells within the primary tumour have the ability to
metastasize. Failure to account for the bicompartmental nature of metastatic
medulloblastoma could be a major barrier to the development of effective targeted
therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10825 
PMCID: PMC3288636
PMID: 22343890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;483(7390):479-83. doi: 10.1038/nature10866.

IDH1 mutation is sufficient to establish the glioma hypermethylator phenotype.

Turcan S(1), Rohle D, Goenka A, Walsh LA, Fang F, Yilmaz E, Campos C, Fabius AW, 
Lu C, Ward PS, Thompson CB, Kaufman A, Guryanova O, Levine R, Heguy A, Viale A,
Morris LG, Huse JT, Mellinghoff IK, Chan TA.

Author information: 
(1)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Apr;12(4):229.

Both genome-wide genetic and epigenetic alterations are fundamentally important
for the development of cancers, but the interdependence of these aberrations is
poorly understood. Glioblastomas and other cancers with the CpG island methylator
phenotype (CIMP) constitute a subset of tumours with extensive epigenomic
aberrations and a distinct biology. Glioma CIMP (G-CIMP) is a powerful
determinant of tumour pathogenicity, but the molecular basis of G-CIMP remains
unresolved. Here we show that mutation of a single gene, isocitrate dehydrogenase
1 (IDH1), establishes G-CIMP by remodelling the methylome. This remodelling
results in reorganization of the methylome and transcriptome. Examination of the 
epigenome of a large set of intermediate-grade gliomas demonstrates a distinct
G-CIMP phenotype that is highly dependent on the presence of IDH mutation.
Introduction of mutant IDH1 into primary human astrocytes alters specific histone
marks, induces extensive DNA hypermethylation, and reshapes the methylome in a
fashion that mirrors the changes observed in G-CIMP-positive lower-grade gliomas.
Furthermore, the epigenomic alterations resulting from mutant IDH1 activate key
gene expression programs, characterize G-CIMP-positive proneural glioblastomas
but not other glioblastomas, and are predictive of improved survival. Our
findings demonstrate that IDH mutation is the molecular basis of CIMP in gliomas,
provide a framework for understanding oncogenesis in these gliomas, and highlight
the interplay between genomic and epigenomic changes in human cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10866 
PMCID: PMC3351699
PMID: 22343889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):386-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10749.

Origin of Columbia River flood basalt controlled by propagating rupture of the
Farallon slab.

Liu L(1), Stegman DR.

Author information: 
(1)IGPP, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA. lil019@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):314-5.

The origin of the Steens-Columbia River (SCR) flood basalts, which is presumed to
be the onset of Yellowstone volcanism, has remained controversial, with the
proposed conceptual models involving either a mantle plume or back-arc processes.
Recent tomographic inversions based on the USArray data reveal unprecedented
detail of upper-mantle structures of the western USA and tightly constrain
geodynamic models simulating Farallon subduction, which has been proposed to
influence the Yellowstone volcanism. Here we show that the best-fitting
geodynamic model depicts an episode of slab tearing about 17 million years ago
under eastern Oregon, where an associated sub-slab asthenospheric upwelling
thermally erodes the Farallon slab, leading to formation of a slab gap at shallow
depth. Driven by a gradient of dynamic pressure, the tear ruptured quickly north 
and south and within about two million years covering a distance of around
900 kilometres along all of eastern Oregon and northern Nevada. This tear would
be consistent with the occurrence of major volcanic dikes during the SCR-Northern
Nevada Rift flood basalt event both in space and time. The model predicts a
petrogenetic sequence for the flood basalt with sources of melt starting from the
base of the slab, at first remelting oceanic lithosphere and then evolving
upwards, ending with remelting of oceanic crust. Such a progression helps to
reconcile the existing controversies on the interpretation of SCR geochemistry
and the involvement of the putative Yellowstone plume. Our study suggests a new
mechanism for the formation of large igneous provinces.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10749 
PMID: 22337059 


796. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):379-81. doi: 10.1038/nature10827.

Magnetic reconnection from a multiscale instability cascade.

Moser AL(1), Bellan PM.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California
91125, USA. auna@caltech.edu

Magnetic reconnection, the process whereby magnetic field lines break and then
reconnect to form a different topology, underlies critical dynamics of
magnetically confined plasmas in both nature and the laboratory. Magnetic
reconnection involves localized diffusion of the magnetic field across plasma,
yet observed reconnection rates are typically much higher than can be accounted
for using classical electrical resistivity. It is generally proposed that the
field diffusion underlying fast reconnection results instead from some
combination of non-magnetohydrodynamic processes that become important on the
'microscopic' scale of the ion Larmor radius or the ion skin depth. A recent
laboratory experiment demonstrated a transition from slow to fast magnetic
reconnection when a current channel narrowed to a microscopic scale, but did not 
address how a macroscopic magnetohydrodynamic system accesses the microscale.
Recent theoretical models and numerical simulations suggest that a macroscopic,
two-dimensional magnetohydrodynamic current sheet might do this through a
sequence of repetitive tearing and thinning into two-dimensional magnetized
plasma structures having successively finer scales. Here we report observations
demonstrating a cascade of instabilities from a distinct, macroscopic-scale
magnetohydrodynamic instability to a distinct, microscopic-scale (ion skin depth)
instability associated with fast magnetic reconnection. These observations
resolve the full three-dimensional dynamics and give insight into the frequently 
impulsive nature of reconnection in space and laboratory plasmas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10827 
PMID: 22337058 


797. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):375-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10775.

Light echoes reveal an unexpectedly cool η Carinae during its nineteenth-century 
Great Eruption.

Rest A(1), Prieto JL, Walborn NR, Smith N, Bianco FB, Chornock R, Welch DL,
Howell DA, Huber ME, Foley RJ, Fong W, Sinnott B, Bond HE, Smith RC, Toledo I,
Minniti D, Mandel K.

Author information: 
(1)Space Telescope Science Institute, 3700 San Martin Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 
21218, USA. arest@stsci.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):317-8.
    Nature. 2012 Jun 21;486(7403):E1; discussion E1-2.

η Carinae is one of the most massive binary stars in the Milky Way. It became the
second-brightest star in our sky during its mid-nineteenth-century 'Great
Eruption', but then faded from view (with only naked-eye estimates of
brightness). Its eruption is unique in that it exceeded the Eddington luminosity 
limit for ten years. Because it is only 2.3 kiloparsecs away, spatially resolved 
studies of the nebula have constrained the ejected mass and velocity, indicating 
that during its nineteenth-century eruption, η Car ejected more than ten solar
masses in an event that released ten per cent of the energy of a typical
core-collapse supernova, without destroying the star. Here we report observations
of light echoes of η Carinae from the 1838-1858 Great Eruption. Spectra of these 
light echoes show only absorption lines, which are blueshifted by -210 km s(-1), 
in good agreement with predicted expansion speeds. The light-echo spectra
correlate best with those of G2-to-G5 supergiants, which have effective
temperatures of around 5,000 kelvin. In contrast to the class of extragalactic
outbursts assumed to be analogues of the Great Eruption of η Carinae, the
effective temperature of its outburst is significantly lower than that allowed by
standard opaque wind models. This indicates that other physical mechanisms such
as an energetic blast wave may have triggered and influenced the eruption.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10775 
PMID: 22337057 


798. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):363-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10875.

Prions are a common mechanism for phenotypic inheritance in wild yeasts.

Halfmann R(1), Jarosz DF, Jones SK, Chang A, Lancaster AK, Lindquist S.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

The self-templating conformations of yeast prion proteins act as epigenetic
elements of inheritance. Yeast prions might provide a mechanism for generating
heritable phenotypic diversity that promotes survival in fluctuating environments
and the evolution of new traits. However, this hypothesis is highly
controversial. Prions that create new traits have not been found in wild strains,
leading to the perception that they are rare 'diseases' of laboratory
cultivation. Here we biochemically test approximately 700 wild strains of
Saccharomyces for [PSI(+)] or [MOT3(+)], and find these prions in many. They
conferred diverse phenotypes that were frequently beneficial under selective
conditions. Simple meiotic re-assortment of the variation harboured within a
strain readily fixed one such trait, making it robust and prion-independent.
Finally, we genetically screened for unknown prion elements. Fully one-third of
wild strains harboured them. These, too, created diverse, often beneficial
phenotypes. Thus, prions broadly govern heritable traits in nature, in a manner
that could profoundly expand adaptive opportunities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10875 
PMCID: PMC3319070
PMID: 22337056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):357-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10824.

Eutrophication causes speciation reversal in whitefish adaptive radiations.

Vonlanthen P(1), Bittner D, Hudson AG, Young KA, Müller R, Lundsgaard-Hansen B,
Roy D, Di Piazza S, Largiader CR, Seehausen O.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Aquatic Ecology and Evolution, Institute of Ecology and Evolution,
University of Bern, Baltzerstrasse 6, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):313-4.

Species diversity can be lost through two different but potentially interacting
extinction processes: demographic decline and speciation reversal through
introgressive hybridization. To investigate the relative contribution of these
processes, we analysed historical and contemporary data of replicate whitefish
radiations from 17 pre-alpine European lakes and reconstructed changes in genetic
species differentiation through time using historical samples. Here we provide
evidence that species diversity evolved in response to ecological opportunity,
and that eutrophication, by diminishing this opportunity, has driven extinctions 
through speciation reversal and demographic decline. Across the radiations, the
magnitude of eutrophication explains the pattern of species loss and levels of
genetic and functional distinctiveness among remaining species. We argue that
extinction by speciation reversal may be more widespread than currently
appreciated. Preventing such extinctions will require that conservation efforts
not only target existing species but identify and protect the ecological and
evolutionary processes that generate and maintain species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10824 
PMID: 22337055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):347-55. doi: 10.1038/nature10888.

The microcosmos of cancer.

Lujambio A(1), Lowe SW.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

The discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs) almost two decades ago established a new
paradigm of gene regulation. During the past ten years these tiny non-coding RNAs
have been linked to virtually all known physiological and pathological processes,
including cancer. In the same way as certain key protein-coding genes, miRNAs can
be deregulated in cancer, in which they can function as a group to mark
differentiation states or individually as bona fide oncogenes or tumour
suppressors. Importantly, miRNA biology can be harnessed experimentally to
investigate cancer phenotypes or used therapeutically as a target for drugs or as
the drug itself.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10888 
PMCID: PMC3509753
PMID: 22337054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):339-46. doi: 10.1038/nature10887.

Modular regulatory principles of large non-coding RNAs.

Guttman M(1), Rinn JL.

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA. mguttman@mit.edu

It is clear that RNA has a diverse set of functions and is more than just a
messenger between gene and protein. The mammalian genome is extensively
transcribed, giving rise to thousands of non-coding transcripts. Whether all of
these transcripts are functional is debated, but it is evident that there are
many functional large non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). Recent studies have begun to
explore the functional diversity and mechanistic role of these large ncRNAs. Here
we synthesize these studies to provide an emerging model whereby large ncRNAs
might achieve regulatory specificity through modularity, assembling diverse
combinations of proteins and possibly RNA and DNA interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10887 
PMCID: PMC4197003
PMID: 22337053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):331-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10886.

RNA-guided genetic silencing systems in bacteria and archaea.

Wiedenheft B(1), Sternberg SH, Doudna JA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 4000 Jones Bridge Road, Chevy Chase, Maryland
20815-6789, USA.

Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR) are essential
components of nucleic-acid-based adaptive immune systems that are widespread in
bacteria and archaea. Similar to RNA interference (RNAi) pathways in eukaryotes, 
CRISPR-mediated immune systems rely on small RNAs for sequence-specific detection
and silencing of foreign nucleic acids, including viruses and plasmids. However, 
the mechanism of RNA-based bacterial immunity is distinct from RNAi.
Understanding how small RNAs are used to find and destroy foreign nucleic acids
will provide new insights into the diverse mechanisms of RNA-controlled genetic
silencing systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10886 
PMID: 22337052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Nature. 2012 Feb 15;482(7385):322-30. doi: 10.1038/nature10885.

Functional complexity and regulation through RNA dynamics.

Dethoff EA(1), Chugh J, Mustoe AM, Al-Hashimi HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biophysics, The University of Michigan, 930 North 
University Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1055, USA.

Changes to the conformation of coding and non-coding RNAs form the basis of
elements of genetic regulation and provide an important source of complexity,
which drives many of the fundamental processes of life. Although the structure of
RNA is highly flexible, the underlying dynamics of RNA are robust and are limited
to transitions between the few conformations that preserve favourable
base-pairing and stacking interactions. The mechanisms by which cellular
processes harness the intrinsic dynamic behaviour of RNA and use it within
functionally productive pathways are complex. The versatile functions and ease by
which it is integrated into a wide variety of genetic circuits and biochemical
pathways suggests there is a general and fundamental role for RNA dynamics in
cellular processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10885 
PMCID: PMC3320162
PMID: 22337051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Nature. 2012 Feb 12;482(7386):542-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10806.

The same pocket in menin binds both MLL and JUND but has opposite effects on
transcription.

Huang J(1), Gurung B, Wan B, Matkar S, Veniaminova NA, Wan K, Merchant JL, Hua X,
Lei M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Menin is a tumour suppressor protein whose loss or inactivation causes multiple
endocrine neoplasia 1 (MEN1), a hereditary autosomal dominant tumour syndrome
that is characterized by tumorigenesis in multiple endocrine organs. Menin
interacts with many proteins and is involved in a variety of cellular processes. 
Menin binds the JUN family transcription factor JUND and inhibits its
transcriptional activity. Several MEN1 missense mutations disrupt the menin-JUND 
interaction, suggesting a correlation between the tumour-suppressor function of
menin and its suppression of JUND-activated transcription. Menin also interacts
with mixed lineage leukaemia protein 1 (MLL1), a histone H3 lysine 4
methyltransferase, and functions as an oncogenic cofactor to upregulate gene
transcription and promote MLL1-fusion-protein-induced leukaemogenesis. A recent
report on the tethering of MLL1 to chromatin binding factor lens
epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF) by menin indicates that menin is a
molecular adaptor coordinating the functions of multiple proteins. Despite its
importance, how menin interacts with many distinct partners and regulates their
functions remains poorly understood. Here we present the crystal structures of
human menin in its free form and in complexes with MLL1 or with JUND, or with an 
MLL1-LEDGF heterodimer. These structures show that menin contains a deep pocket
that binds short peptides of MLL1 or JUND in the same manner, but that it can
have opposite effects on transcription. The menin-JUND interaction blocks JUN
N-terminal kinase (JNK)-mediated JUND phosphorylation and suppresses JUND-induced
transcription. In contrast, menin promotes gene transcription by binding the
transcription activator MLL1 through the peptide pocket while still interacting
with the chromatin-anchoring protein LEDGF at a distinct surface formed by both
menin and MLL1.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10806 
PMCID: PMC3983792
PMID: 22327296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nature. 2012 Feb 12;483(7387):53-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10823.

Structural basis for iron piracy by pathogenic Neisseria.

Noinaj N(1), Easley NC, Oke M, Mizuno N, Gumbart J, Boura E, Steere AN, Zak O,
Aisen P, Tajkhorshid E, Evans RW, Gorringe AR, Mason AB, Steven AC, Buchanan SK.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, US National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, 
USA.

Neisseria are obligate human pathogens causing bacterial meningitis, septicaemia 
and gonorrhoea. Neisseria require iron for survival and can extract it directly
from human transferrin for transport across the outer membrane. The transport
system consists of TbpA, an integral outer membrane protein, and TbpB, a
co-receptor attached to the cell surface; both proteins are potentially important
vaccine and therapeutic targets. Two key questions driving Neisseria research are
how human transferrin is specifically targeted, and how the bacteria liberate
iron from transferrin at neutral pH. To address these questions, we solved
crystal structures of the TbpA-transferrin complex and of the corresponding
co-receptor TbpB. We characterized the TbpB-transferrin complex by small-angle
X-ray scattering and the TbpA-TbpB-transferrin complex by electron microscopy.
Our studies provide a rational basis for the specificity of TbpA for human
transferrin, show how TbpA promotes iron release from transferrin, and elucidate 
how TbpB facilitates this process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10823 
PMCID: PMC3292680
PMID: 22327295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nature. 2012 Feb 12;483(7390):470-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10807.

Control of ground-state pluripotency by allelic regulation of Nanog.

Miyanari Y(1), Torres-Padilla ME.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, CNRS/INSERM
U964, Université de Strasbourg, F-67404 Illkirch, Cité Universitaire de
Strasbourg, France.

Pluripotency is established through genome-wide reprogramming during mammalian
pre-implantation development, resulting in the formation of the naive epiblast.
Reprogramming involves both the resetting of epigenetic marks and the activation 
of pluripotent-cell-specific genes such as Nanog and Oct4 (also known as Pou5f1).
The tight regulation of these genes is crucial for reprogramming, but the
mechanisms that regulate their expression in vivo have not been uncovered. Here
we show that Nanog--but not Oct4--is monoallelically expressed in early
pre-implantation embryos. Nanog then undergoes a progressive switch to biallelic 
expression during the transition towards ground-state pluripotency in the naive
epiblast of the late blastocyst. Embryonic stem (ES) cells grown in leukaemia
inhibitory factor (LIF) and serum express Nanog mainly monoallelically and show
asynchronous replication of the Nanog locus, a feature of monoallelically
expressed genes, but ES cells activate both alleles when cultured under 2i
conditions, which mimic the pluripotent ground state in vitro. Live-cell imaging 
with reporter ES cells confirmed the allelic expression of Nanog and revealed
allelic switching. The allelic expression of Nanog is regulated through the
fibroblast growth factor-extracellular signal-regulated kinase signalling
pathway, and it is accompanied by chromatin changes at the proximal promoter but 
occurs independently of DNA methylation. Nanog-heterozygous blastocysts have
fewer inner-cell-mass derivatives and delayed primitive endoderm formation,
indicating a role for the biallelic expression of Nanog in the timely maturation 
of the inner cell mass into a fully reprogrammed pluripotent epiblast. We suggest
that the tight regulation of Nanog dose at the chromosome level is necessary for 
the acquisition of ground-state pluripotency during development. Our data
highlight an unexpected role for allelic expression in controlling the dose of
pluripotency factors in vivo, adding an extra level to the regulation of
reprogramming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10807 
PMID: 22327294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7384):251-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10804.

Functional dissection of lysine deacetylases reveals that HDAC1 and p300 regulate
AMPK.

Lin YY(1), Kiihl S, Suhail Y, Liu SY, Chou YH, Kuang Z, Lu JY, Khor CN, Lin CL,
Bader JS, Irizarry R, Boeke JD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, National
Taiwan University, Taipei 100, Taiwan. yuyilin@ntu.edu.tw

Retraction in
    Nature. 2013 Nov 7;503(7474):146.

First identified as histone-modifying proteins, lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) 
and deacetylases (KDACs) antagonize each other through modification of the side
chains of lysine residues in histone proteins. Acetylation of many non-histone
proteins involved in chromatin, metabolism or cytoskeleton regulation were
further identified in eukaryotic organisms, but the corresponding enzymes and
substrate-specific functions of the modifications are unclear. Moreover,
mechanisms underlying functional specificity of individual KDACs remain
enigmatic, and the substrate spectra of each KDAC lack comprehensive definition. 
Here we dissect the functional specificity of 12 critical human KDACs using a
genome-wide synthetic lethality screen in cultured human cells. The genetic
interaction profiles revealed enzyme-substrate relationships between individual
KDACs and many important substrates governing a wide array of biological
processes including metabolism, development and cell cycle progression. We
further confirmed that acetylation and deacetylation of the catalytic subunit of 
the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a critical cellular 
energy-sensing protein kinase complex, is controlled by the opposing catalytic
activities of HDAC1 and p300. Deacetylation of AMPK enhances physical interaction
with the upstream kinase LKB1, leading to AMPK phosphorylation and activation,
and resulting in lipid breakdown in human liver cells. These findings provide new
insights into previously underappreciated metabolic regulatory roles of HDAC1 in 
coordinating nutrient availability and cellular responses upstream of AMPK, and
demonstrate the importance of high-throughput genetic interaction profiling to
elucidate functional specificity and critical substrates of individual human
KDACs potentially valuable for therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10804 
PMCID: PMC3277212
PMID: 22318606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7384):208-11. doi: 10.1038/nature10800.

Supercontinent cycles and the calculation of absolute palaeolongitude in deep
time.

Mitchell RN(1), Kilian TM, Evans DA.

Author information: 
(1)Yale University, 210 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
ross.mitchell@yale.edu

Traditional models of the supercontinent cycle predict that the next
supercontinent--'Amasia'--will form either where Pangaea rifted (the
'introversion' model) or on the opposite side of the world (the 'extroversion'
models). Here, by contrast, we develop an 'orthoversion' model whereby a
succeeding supercontinent forms 90° away, within the great circle of subduction
encircling its relict predecessor. A supercontinent aggregates over a mantle
downwelling but then influences global-scale mantle convection to create an
upwelling under the landmass. We calculate the minimum moment of inertia about
which oscillatory true polar wander occurs owing to the prolate shape of the
non-hydrostatic Earth. By fitting great circles to each supercontinent's true
polar wander legacy, we determine that the arc distances between successive
supercontinent centres (the axes of the respective minimum moments of inertia)
are 88° for Nuna to Rodinia and 87° for Rodinia to Pangaea--as predicted by the
orthoversion model. Supercontinent centres can be located back into Precambrian
time, providing fixed points for the calculation of absolute palaeolongitude over
billion-year timescales. Palaeogeographic reconstructions additionally
constrained in palaeolongitude will provide increasingly accurate estimates of
ancient plate motions and palaeobiogeographic affinities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10800 
PMID: 22318605 


809. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7384):204-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10840.

Thresholdless nanoscale coaxial lasers.

Khajavikhan M(1), Simic A, Katz M, Lee JH, Slutsky B, Mizrahi A, Lomakin V,
Fainman Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California
San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0407, USA.
mercedeh@umn.edu

The effects of cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), caused by the interaction of
matter and the electromagnetic field in subwavelength resonant structures, have
been the subject of intense research in recent years. The generation of coherent 
radiation by subwavelength resonant structures has attracted considerable
interest, not only as a means of exploring the QED effects that emerge at small
volume, but also for its potential in applications ranging from on-chip optical
communication to ultrahigh-resolution and high-throughput imaging, sensing and
spectroscopy. One such strand of research is aimed at developing the 'ultimate'
nanolaser: a scalable, low-threshold, efficient source of radiation that operates
at room temperature and occupies a small volume on a chip. Different resonators
have been proposed for the realization of such a nanolaser--microdisk and
photonic bandgap resonators, and, more recently, metallic, metallo-dielectric and
plasmonic resonators. But progress towards realizing the ultimate nanolaser has
been hindered by the lack of a systematic approach to scaling down the size of
the laser cavity without significantly increasing the threshold power required
for lasing. Here we describe a family of coaxial nanostructured cavities that
potentially solve the resonator scalability challenge by means of their geometry 
and metal composition. Using these coaxial nanocavities, we demonstrate the
smallest room-temperature, continuous-wave telecommunications-frequency laser to 
date. In addition, by further modifying the design of these coaxial nanocavities,
we achieve thresholdless lasing with a broadband gain medium. In addition to
enabling laser applications, these nanoscale resonators should provide a powerful
platform for the development of other QED devices and metamaterials in which
atom-field interactions generate new functionalities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10840 
PMID: 22318604 


810. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7384):199-203. doi: 10.1038/nature10741.

Electromagnetically induced transparency with resonant nuclei in a cavity.

Röhlsberger R(1), Wille HC, Schlage K, Sahoo B.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron, Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, Germany.
ralf.roehlsberger@desy.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 9;482(7384):169-70.

The manipulation of light-matter interactions by quantum control of atomic levels
has had a profound impact on optical sciences. Such manipulation has many
applications, including nonlinear optics at the few-photon level, slow light,
lasing without inversion and optical quantum information processing. The critical
underlying technique is electromagnetically induced transparency, in which
quantum interference between transitions in multilevel atoms renders an opaque
medium transparent near an atomic resonance. With the advent of high-brilliance, 
accelerator-driven light sources such as storage rings or X-ray lasers, it has
become attractive to extend the techniques of optical quantum control to the
X-ray regime. Here we demonstrate electromagnetically induced transparency in the
regime of hard X-rays, using the 14.4-kiloelectronvolt nuclear resonance of the
Mössbauer isotope iron-57 (a two-level system). We exploit cooperative emission
from ensembles of the nuclei, which are embedded in a low-finesse cavity and
excited by synchrotron radiation. The spatial modulation of the photonic density 
of states in a cavity mode leads to the coexistence of superradiant and
subradiant states of nuclei, respectively located at an antinode and a node of
the cavity field. This scheme causes the nuclei to behave as effective
three-level systems, with two degenerate levels in the excited state (one of
which can be considered metastable). The radiative coupling of the nuclear
ensembles by the cavity field establishes the atomic coherence necessary for the 
cancellation of resonant absorption. Because this technique does not require
atomic systems with a metastable level, electromagnetically induced transparency 
and its applications can be transferred to the regime of nuclear resonances,
establishing the field of nuclear quantum optics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10741 
PMID: 22318603 


811. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7384):192-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10837.

A tidally distorted dwarf galaxy near NGC 4449.

Rich RM(1), Collins ML, Black CM, Longstaff FA, Koch A, Benson A, Reitzel DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095-1547, USA. rmr@astro.ucla.edu

NGC 4449 is a nearby Magellanic irregular starburst galaxy with a B-band absolute
magnitude of -18 and a prominent, massive, intermediate-age nucleus at a distance
from Earth of 3.8 megaparsecs (ref. 3). It is wreathed in an extraordinary
neutral hydrogen (H I) complex, which includes rings, shells and a
counter-rotating core, spanning ∼90 kiloparsecs (kpc; refs 1, 4). NGC 4449 is
relatively isolated, although an interaction with its nearest known
companion--the galaxy DDO 125, some 40 kpc to the south--has been proposed as
being responsible for the complexity of its H I structure. Here we report the
presence of a dwarf galaxy companion to NGC 4449, namely NGC 4449B. This
companion has a V-band absolute magnitude of -13.4 and a half-light radius of
2.7 kpc, with a full extent of around 8 kpc. It is in a transient stage of tidal 
disruption, similar to that of the Sagittarius dwarf near the Milky Way. NGC
4449B exhibits a striking S-shaped morphology that has been predicted for
disrupting galaxies but has hitherto been seen only in a dissolving globular
cluster. We also detect an additional arc or disk ripple embedded in a
two-component stellar halo, including a component extending twice as far as
previously known, to about 20 kpc from the galaxy's centre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10837 
PMID: 22318602 


812. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7384):173-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10811.

The Drosophila melanogaster Genetic Reference Panel.

Mackay TF(1), Richards S, Stone EA, Barbadilla A, Ayroles JF, Zhu D, Casillas S, 
Han Y, Magwire MM, Cridland JM, Richardson MF, Anholt RR, Barrón M, Bess C,
Blankenburg KP, Carbone MA, Castellano D, Chaboub L, Duncan L, Harris Z, Javaid
M, Jayaseelan JC, Jhangiani SN, Jordan KW, Lara F, Lawrence F, Lee SL, Librado P,
Linheiro RS, Lyman RF, Mackey AJ, Munidasa M, Muzny DM, Nazareth L, Newsham I,
Perales L, Pu LL, Qu C, Ràmia M, Reid JG, Rollmann SM, Rozas J, Saada N,
Turlapati L, Worley KC, Wu YQ, Yamamoto A, Zhu Y, Bergman CM, Thornton KR,
Mittelman D, Gibbs RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North
Carolina 27695, USA. trudy_mackay@ncsu.edu

A major challenge of biology is understanding the relationship between molecular 
genetic variation and variation in quantitative traits, including fitness. This
relationship determines our ability to predict phenotypes from genotypes and to
understand how evolutionary forces shape variation within and between species.
Previous efforts to dissect the genotype-phenotype map were based on incomplete
genotypic information. Here, we describe the Drosophila melanogaster Genetic
Reference Panel (DGRP), a community resource for analysis of population genomics 
and quantitative traits. The DGRP consists of fully sequenced inbred lines
derived from a natural population. Population genomic analyses reveal reduced
polymorphism in centromeric autosomal regions and the X chromosome, evidence for 
positive and negative selection, and rapid evolution of the X chromosome. Many
variants in novel genes, most at low frequency, are associated with quantitative 
traits and explain a large fraction of the phenotypic variance. The DGRP
facilitates genotype-phenotype mapping using the power of Drosophila genetics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10811 
PMCID: PMC3683990
PMID: 22318601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7385):400-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10755.

Cancer exome analysis reveals a T-cell-dependent mechanism of cancer
immunoediting.

Matsushita H(1), Vesely MD, Koboldt DC, Rickert CG, Uppaluri R, Magrini VJ,
Arthur CD, White JM, Chen YS, Shea LK, Hundal J, Wendl MC, Demeter R, Wylie T,
Allison JP, Smyth MJ, Old LJ, Mardis ER, Schreiber RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Apr;12(4):227.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Apr;12(4):233.

Cancer immunoediting, the process by which the immune system controls tumour
outgrowth and shapes tumour immunogenicity, is comprised of three phases:
elimination, equilibrium and escape. Although many immune components that
participate in this process are known, its underlying mechanisms remain poorly
defined. A central tenet of cancer immunoediting is that T-cell recognition of
tumour antigens drives the immunological destruction or sculpting of a developing
cancer. However, our current understanding of tumour antigens comes largely from 
analyses of cancers that develop in immunocompetent hosts and thus may have
already been edited. Little is known about the antigens expressed in nascent
tumour cells, whether they are sufficient to induce protective antitumour immune 
responses or whether their expression is modulated by the immune system. Here,
using massively parallel sequencing, we characterize expressed mutations in
highly immunogenic methylcholanthrene-induced sarcomas derived from
immunodeficient Rag2(-/-) mice that phenotypically resemble nascent primary
tumour cells. Using class I prediction algorithms, we identify mutant spectrin-β2
as a potential rejection antigen of the d42m1 sarcoma and validate this
prediction by conventional antigen expression cloning and detection. We also
demonstrate that cancer immunoediting of d42m1 occurs via a T-cell-dependent
immunoselection process that promotes outgrowth of pre-existing tumour cell
clones lacking highly antigenic mutant spectrin-β2 and other potential strong
antigens. These results demonstrate that the strong immunogenicity of an unedited
tumour can be ascribed to expression of highly antigenic mutant proteins and show
that outgrowth of tumour cells that lack these strong antigens via a
T-cell-dependent immunoselection process represents one mechanism of cancer
immunoediting.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10755 
PMCID: PMC3874809
PMID: 22318521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7385):395-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10772.

Extrathymically generated regulatory T cells control mucosal TH2 inflammation.

Josefowicz SZ(1), Niec RE, Kim HY, Treuting P, Chinen T, Zheng Y, Umetsu DT,
Rudensky AY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Immunology Program, Sloan Kettering
Institute, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Mar;12(3):154.
    Am J Transplant. 2012 Aug;12(8):1967.
    Am J Transplant. 2013 Apr;13(4):829.

A balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory mechanisms at mucosal interfaces,
which are sites of constitutive exposure to microbes and non-microbial foreign
substances, allows for efficient protection against pathogens yet prevents
adverse inflammatory responses associated with allergy, asthma and intestinal
inflammation. Regulatory T (T(reg)) cells prevent systemic and tissue-specific
autoimmunity and inflammatory lesions at mucosal interfaces. These cells are
generated in the thymus (tT(reg) cells) and in the periphery (induced (i)T(reg)
cells), and their dual origin implies a division of labour between tT(reg) and
iT(reg) cells in immune homeostasis. Here we show that a highly selective
blockage in differentiation of iT(reg) cells in mice did not lead to unprovoked
multi-organ autoimmunity, exacerbation of induced tissue-specific autoimmune
pathology, or increased pro-inflammatory responses of T helper 1 (T(H)1) and
T(H)17 cells. However, mice deficient in iT(reg) cells spontaneously developed
pronounced T(H)2-type pathologies at mucosal sites--in the gastrointestinal tract
and lungs--with hallmarks of allergic inflammation and asthma. Furthermore,
iT(reg)-cell deficiency altered gut microbial communities. These results suggest 
that whereas T(reg) cells generated in the thymus appear sufficient for control
of systemic and tissue-specific autoimmunity, extrathymic differentiation of
T(reg) cells affects commensal microbiota composition and serves a distinct,
essential function in restraint of allergic-type inflammation at mucosal
interfaces.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10772 
PMCID: PMC3485072
PMID: 22318520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7386):514-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10847.

Recent contributions of glaciers and ice caps to sea level rise.

Jacob T(1), Wahr J, Pfeffer WT, Swenson S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Cooperative Institute for Environmental Studies,
University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):482-3.

Glaciers and ice caps (GICs) are important contributors to present-day global
mean sea level rise. Most previous global mass balance estimates for GICs rely on
extrapolation of sparse mass balance measurements representing only a small
fraction of the GIC area, leaving their overall contribution to sea level rise
unclear. Here we show that GICs, excluding the Greenland and Antarctic peripheral
GICs, lost mass at a rate of 148 ± 30 Gt yr(-1) from January 2003 to December
2010, contributing 0.41 ± 0.08 mm yr(-1) to sea level rise. Our results are based
on a global, simultaneous inversion of monthly GRACE-derived satellite gravity
fields, from which we calculate the mass change over all ice-covered regions
greater in area than 100 km(2). The GIC rate for 2003-2010 is about 30 per cent
smaller than the previous mass balance estimate that most closely matches our
study period. The high mountains of Asia, in particular, show a mass loss of only
4 ± 20 Gt yr(-1) for 2003-2010, compared with 47-55 Gt yr(-1) in previously
published estimates. For completeness, we also estimate that the Greenland and
Antarctic ice sheets, including their peripheral GICs, contributed
1.06 ± 0.19 mm yr(-1) to sea level rise over the same time period. The total
contribution to sea level rise from all ice-covered regions is thus
1.48 ± 0.26 mm (-1), which agrees well with independent estimates of sea level
rise originating from land ice loss and other terrestrial sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10847 
PMID: 22318519 


816. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7385):423-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10782.

Single-molecule imaging of DNA pairing by RecA reveals a three-dimensional
homology search.

Forget AL(1), Kowalczykowski SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, California
95616-8665, USA.

DNA breaks can be repaired with high fidelity by homologous recombination. A
ubiquitous protein that is essential for this DNA template-directed repair is
RecA. After resection of broken DNA to produce single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), RecA 
assembles on this ssDNA into a filament with the unique capacity to search and
find DNA sequences in double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) that are homologous to the
ssDNA. This homology search is vital to recombinational DNA repair, and results
in homologous pairing and exchange of DNA strands. Homologous pairing involves
DNA sequence-specific target location by the RecA-ssDNA complex. Despite decades 
of study, the mechanism of this enigmatic search process remains unknown. RecA is
a DNA-dependent ATPase, but ATP hydrolysis is not required for DNA pairing and
strand exchange, eliminating active search processes. Using dual optical trapping
to manipulate DNA, and single-molecule fluorescence microscopy to image DNA
pairing, we demonstrate that both the three-dimensional conformational state of
the dsDNA target and the length of the homologous RecA-ssDNA filament have
important roles in the homology search. We discovered that as the end-to-end
distance of the target dsDNA molecule is increased, constraining the available
three-dimensional (3D) conformations of the molecule, the rate of homologous
pairing decreases. Conversely, when the length of the ssDNA in the nucleoprotein 
filament is increased, homology is found faster. We propose a model for the DNA
homology search process termed 'intersegmental contact sampling', in which the
intrinsic multivalent nature of the RecA nucleoprotein filament is used to search
DNA sequence space within 3D domains of DNA, exploiting multiple weak contacts to
rapidly search for homology. Our findings highlight the importance of the 3D
conformational dynamics of DNA, reveal a previously unknown facet of the homology
search, and provide insight into the mechanism of DNA target location by this
member of a universal family of proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10782 
PMCID: PMC3288143
PMID: 22318518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7385):405-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10803.

Expression of tumour-specific antigens underlies cancer immunoediting.

DuPage M(1), Mazumdar C, Schmidt LM, Cheung AF, Jacks T.

Author information: 
(1)Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research and Department of Biology,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Apr;12(4):227.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Apr;12(4):233.

Cancer immunoediting is a process by which immune cells, particularly lymphocytes
of the adaptive immune system, protect the host from the development of cancer
and alter tumour progression by driving the outgrowth of tumour cells with
decreased sensitivity to immune attack. Carcinogen-induced mouse models of cancer
have shown that primary tumour susceptibility is thereby enhanced in
immune-compromised mice, whereas the capacity for such tumours to grow after
transplantation into wild-type mice is reduced. However, many questions about the
process of cancer immunoediting remain unanswered, in part because of the known
antigenic complexity and heterogeneity of carcinogen-induced tumours. Here we
adapted a genetically engineered, autochthonous mouse model of sarcomagenesis to 
investigate the process of cancer immunoediting. This system allows us to monitor
the onset and growth of immunogenic and non-immunogenic tumours induced in situ
that harbour identical genetic and histopathological characteristics. By
comparing the development of such tumours in immune-competent mice with their
development in mice with broad immunodeficiency or specific antigenic tolerance, 
we show that recognition of tumour-specific antigens by lymphocytes is critical
for immunoediting against sarcomas. Furthermore, primary sarcomas were edited to 
become less immunogenic through the selective outgrowth of cells that were able
to escape T lymphocyte attack. Loss of tumour antigen expression or presentation 
on major histocompatibility complex I was necessary and sufficient for this
immunoediting process to occur. These results highlight the importance of
tumour-specific-antigen expression in immune surveillance, and potentially,
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10803 
PMCID: PMC3288744
PMID: 22318517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Nature. 2012 Feb 8;482(7385):410-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10826.

Outgrowth of single oncogene-expressing cells from suppressive epithelial
environments.

Leung CT(1), Brugge JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2012 Mar 13;22(3):472-4.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Mar;12(3):152.

Tumorigenesis is a clonal evolution process that is initiated from single cells
within otherwise histologically normal tissue. It is unclear how single, sporadic
mutant cells that have sustained oncogenic alterations evolve within a tightly
regulated tissue environment. Here we investigated the effects of inducing
oncogene expression in single cells in organotypic mammary acini as a model to
elucidate the processes by which oncogenic alterations initiate clonal
progression from organized epithelial environments. Sporadic cells induced to
overexpress oncogenes that specifically perturb cell-cycle checkpoints (for
example, E7 from human papilloma virus 16, and cyclin D1), deregulate Myc
transcription or activate AKT signalling remained quiescent within
growth-arrested acini. By contrast, single cells that overexpress ERBB2 initiated
a cellular cascade involving cell translocation from the epithelial layer, as
well as luminal outgrowth that is characteristic of neoplastic progression in
early-stage epithelial tumours. In addition, ERBB2-mediated cell translocation to
the lumen was found to depend on extracellular-regulated kinase and matrix
metalloproteinase activities, and genetic alterations that perturb local
cell-matrix adhesion drove cell translocation. We also provide evidence that
luminal cell translocation may drive clonal selection by promoting either the
death or the expansion of quiescent oncogene-expressing cells, depending on
whether the pre-existing alterations allow anchorage-independent survival and
growth. Our data show that the initial outgrowth of single oncogene-expressing
cells from organized epithelial structures is a highly regulated process, and we 
propose that a cell translocation mechanism allows sporadic mutant cells to evade
suppressive micro-environments and elicits clonal selection for survival and
proliferative expansion outside the native niches of these cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10826 
PMCID: PMC3297969
PMID: 22318515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nature. 2012 Feb 7;484(7392):69-74. doi: 10.1038/nature10909.

DNA damage defines sites of recurrent chromosomal translocations in B
lymphocytes.

Hakim O(1), Resch W, Yamane A, Klein I, Kieffer-Kwon KR, Jankovic M, Oliveira T, 
Bothmer A, Voss TC, Ansarah-Sobrinho C, Mathe E, Liang G, Cobell J, Nakahashi H, 
Robbiani DF, Nussenzweig A, Hager GL, Nussenzweig MC, Casellas R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Receptor Biology and Gene Expression, NCI, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Recurrent chromosomal translocations underlie both haematopoietic and solid
tumours. Their origin has been ascribed to selection of random rearrangements,
targeted DNA damage, or frequent nuclear interactions between translocation
partners; however, the relative contribution of each of these elements has not
been measured directly or on a large scale. Here we examine the role of nuclear
architecture and frequency of DNA damage in the genesis of chromosomal
translocations by measuring these parameters simultaneously in cultured mouse B
lymphocytes. In the absence of recurrent DNA damage, translocations between Igh
or Myc and all other genes are directly related to their contact frequency.
Conversely, translocations associated with recurrent site-directed DNA damage are
proportional to the rate of DNA break formation, as measured by replication
protein A accumulation at the site of damage. Thus, non-targeted rearrangements
reflect nuclear organization whereas DNA break formation governs the location and
frequency of recurrent translocations, including those driving B-cell
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10909 
PMCID: PMC3459314
PMID: 22314321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2012 Feb 5;482(7385):390-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10808.

DNase I sensitivity QTLs are a major determinant of human expression variation.

Degner JF(1), Pai AA, Pique-Regi R, Veyrieras JB, Gaffney DJ, Pickrell JK, De
Leon S, Michelini K, Lewellen N, Crawford GE, Stephens M, Gilad Y, Pritchard JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA.

The mapping of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) has emerged as an
important tool for linking genetic variation to changes in gene regulation.
However, it remains difficult to identify the causal variants underlying eQTLs,
and little is known about the regulatory mechanisms by which they act. Here we
show that genetic variants that modify chromatin accessibility and transcription 
factor binding are a major mechanism through which genetic variation leads to
gene expression differences among humans. We used DNase I sequencing to measure
chromatin accessibility in 70 Yoruba lymphoblastoid cell lines, for which
genome-wide genotypes and estimates of gene expression levels are also available.
We obtained a total of 2.7 billion uniquely mapped DNase I-sequencing (DNase-seq)
reads, which allowed us to produce genome-wide maps of chromatin accessibility
for each individual. We identified 8,902 locations at which the DNase-seq read
depth correlated significantly with genotype at a nearby single nucleotide
polymorphism or insertion/deletion (false discovery rate = 10%). We call such
variants 'DNase I sensitivity quantitative trait loci' (dsQTLs). We found that
dsQTLs are strongly enriched within inferred transcription factor binding sites
and are frequently associated with allele-specific changes in transcription
factor binding. A substantial fraction (16%) of dsQTLs are also associated with
variation in the expression levels of nearby genes (that is, these loci are also 
classified as eQTLs). Conversely, we estimate that as many as 55% of eQTL single 
nucleotide polymorphisms are also dsQTLs. Our observations indicate that dsQTLs
are highly abundant in the human genome and are likely to be important
contributors to phenotypic variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10808 
PMCID: PMC3501342
PMID: 22307276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2012 Feb 5;482(7385):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature10794.

Brassinosteroid regulates stomatal development by GSK3-mediated inhibition of a
MAPK pathway.

Kim TW(1), Michniewicz M, Bergmann DC, Wang ZY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Carnegie Institution for Science, Stanford,
California 94305-4150, USA.

Plants must coordinate the regulation of biochemistry and anatomy to optimize
photosynthesis and water-use efficiency. The formation of stomata, epidermal
pores that facilitate gas exchange, is highly coordinated with other aspects of
photosynthetic development. The signalling pathways controlling stomata
development are not fully understood, although mitogen-activated protein kinase
(MAPK) signalling is known to have key roles. Here we demonstrate in Arabidopsis 
that brassinosteroid regulates stomatal development by activating the MAPK kinase
kinase (MAPKKK) YDA (also known as YODA). Genetic analyses indicate that receptor
kinase-mediated brassinosteroid signalling inhibits stomatal development through 
the glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3)-like kinase BIN2, and BIN2 acts upstream of
YDA but downstream of the ERECTA family of receptor kinases. Complementary in
vitro and in vivo assays show that BIN2 phosphorylates YDA to inhibit YDA
phosphorylation of its substrate MKK4, and that activities of downstream MAPKs
are reduced in brassinosteroid-deficient mutants but increased by treatment with 
either brassinosteroid or GSK3-kinase inhibitor. Our results indicate that
brassinosteroid inhibits stomatal development by alleviating GSK3-mediated
inhibition of this MAPK module, providing two key links; that of a plant MAPKKK
to its upstream regulators and of brassinosteroid to a specific developmental
output.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10794 
PMCID: PMC3292258
PMID: 22307275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nature. 2012 Feb 5;483(7387):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10861.

Structural basis for recognition of H3K56-acetylated histone H3-H4 by the
chaperone Rtt106.

Su D(1), Hu Q, Li Q, Thompson JR, Cui G, Fazly A, Davies BA, Botuyan MV, Zhang Z,
Mer G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minnesota 55905, USA.

Dynamic variations in the structure of chromatin influence virtually all
DNA-related processes in eukaryotes and are controlled in part by
post-translational modifications of histones. One such modification, the
acetylation of lysine 56 (H3K56ac) in the amino-terminal α-helix (αN) of histone 
H3, has been implicated in the regulation of nucleosome assembly during DNA
replication and repair, and nucleosome disassembly during gene transcription. In 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the histone chaperone Rtt106 contributes to the
deposition of newly synthesized H3K56ac-carrying H3-H4 complex on replicating
DNA, but it is unclear how Rtt106 binds H3-H4 and specifically recognizes H3K56ac
as there is no apparent acetylated lysine reader domain in Rtt106. Here, we show 
that two domains of Rtt106 are involved in a combinatorial recognition of H3-H4. 
An N-terminal domain homodimerizes and interacts with H3-H4 independently of
acetylation while a double pleckstrin-homology (PH) domain binds the
K56-containing region of H3. Affinity is markedly enhanced upon acetylation of
K56, an effect that is probably due to increased conformational entropy of the αN
helix of H3. Our data support a mode of interaction where the N-terminal
homodimeric domain of Rtt106 intercalates between the two H3-H4 components of the
(H3-H4)(2) tetramer while two double PH domains in the Rtt106 dimer interact with
each of the two H3K56ac sites in (H3-H4)(2). We show that the Rtt106-(H3-H4)(2)
interaction is important for gene silencing and the DNA damage response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10861 
PMCID: PMC3439842
PMID: 22307274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7383):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10757.

Serial translocation by means of circular intermediates underlies colour
sidedness in cattle.

Durkin K(1), Coppieters W, Drögemüller C, Ahariz N, Cambisano N, Druet T,
Fasquelle C, Haile A, Horin P, Huang L, Kamatani Y, Karim L, Lathrop M, Moser S, 
Oldenbroek K, Rieder S, Sartelet A, Sölkner J, Stålhammar H, Zelenika D, Zhang Z,
Leeb T, Georges M, Charlier C.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Animal Genomics, GIGA-R & Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University
of Liège, 4000-Liège (Sart Tilman), Belgium.

Colour sidedness is a dominantly inherited phenotype of cattle characterized by
the polarization of pigmented sectors on the flanks, snout and ear tips. It is
also referred to as 'lineback' or 'witrik' (which means white back), as
colour-sided animals typically display a white band along their spine. Colour
sidedness is documented at least since the Middle Ages and is presently
segregating in several cattle breeds around the globe, including in Belgian blue 
and brown Swiss. Here we report that colour sidedness is determined by a first
allele on chromosome 29 (Cs(29)), which results from the translocation of a
492-kilobase chromosome 6 segment encompassing KIT to chromosome 29, and a second
allele on chromosome 6 (Cs(6)), derived from the first by repatriation of fused
575-kilobase chromosome 6 and 29 sequences to the KIT locus. We provide evidence 
that both translocation events involved circular intermediates. This is the first
example, to our knowledge, of a phenotype determined by homologous yet
non-syntenic alleles that result from a novel copy-number-variant-generating
mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10757 
PMID: 22297974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7383):77-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10706.

Decadal to monthly timescales of magma transfer and reservoir growth at a caldera
volcano.

Druitt TH(1), Costa F, Deloule E, Dungan M, Scaillet B.

Author information: 
(1)Clermont Université, Université Blaise Pascal, Laboratoire Magmas et Volcans, 
BP 10448, F-63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France. t.druitt@opgc.univ-bpclermont.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 2;482(7383):38-9.

Caldera-forming volcanic eruptions are low-frequency, high-impact events capable 
of discharging tens to thousands of cubic kilometres of magma explosively on
timescales of hours to days, with devastating effects on local and global scales.
Because no such eruption has been monitored during its long build-up phase, the
precursor phenomena are not well understood. Geophysical signals obtained during 
recent episodes of unrest at calderas such as Yellowstone, USA, and Campi
Flegrei, Italy, are difficult to interpret, and the conditions necessary for
large eruptions are poorly constrained. Here we present a study of pre-eruptive
magmatic processes and their timescales using chemically zoned crystals from the 
'Minoan' caldera-forming eruption of Santorini volcano, Greece, which occurred in
the late 1600s BC. The results provide insights into how rapidly large silicic
systems may pass from a quiescent state to one on the edge of eruption. Despite
the large volume of erupted magma (40-60 cubic kilometres), and the 18,000-year
gestation period between the Minoan eruption and the previous major eruption,
most crystals in the Minoan magma record processes that occurred less than about 
100 years before the eruption. Recharge of the magma reservoir by large volumes
of silicic magma (and some mafic magma) occurred during the century before
eruption, and mixing between different silicic magma batches was still taking
place during the final months. Final assembly of large silicic magma reservoirs
may occur on timescales that are geologically very short by comparison with the
preceding repose period, with major growth phases immediately before eruption.
These observations have implications for the monitoring of long-dormant, but
potentially active, caldera systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10706 
PMID: 22297973 


825. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7383):72-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10739.

Nonlinear material behaviour of spider silk yields robust webs.

Cranford SW(1), Tarakanova A, Pugno NM, Buehler MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Atomistic and Molecular Mechanics, Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Natural materials are renowned for exquisite designs that optimize function, as
illustrated by the elasticity of blood vessels, the toughness of bone and the
protection offered by nacre. Particularly intriguing are spider silks, with
studies having explored properties ranging from their protein sequence to the
geometry of a web. This material system, highly adapted to meet a spider's many
needs, has superior mechanical properties. In spite of much research into the
molecular design underpinning the outstanding performance of silk fibres, and
into the mechanical characteristics of web-like structures, it remains unknown
how the mechanical characteristics of spider silk contribute to the integrity and
performance of a spider web. Here we report web deformation experiments and
simulations that identify the nonlinear response of silk threads to
stress--involving softening at a yield point and substantial stiffening at large 
strain until failure--as being crucial to localize load-induced deformation and
resulting in mechanically robust spider webs. Control simulations confirmed that 
a nonlinear stress response results in superior resistance to structural defects 
in the web compared to linear elastic or elastic-plastic (softening) material
behaviour. We also show that under distributed loads, such as those exerted by
wind, the stiff behaviour of silk under small deformation, before the yield
point, is essential in maintaining the web's structural integrity. The superior
performance of silk in webs is therefore not due merely to its exceptional
ultimate strength and strain, but arises from the nonlinear response of silk
threads to strain and their geometrical arrangement in a web.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10739 
PMID: 22297972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7383):68-71. doi: 10.1038/nature10711.

Direct frequency comb spectroscopy in the extreme ultraviolet.

Cingöz A(1), Yost DC, Allison TK, Ruehl A, Fermann ME, Hartl I, Ye J.

Author information: 
(1)JILA, National Institute of Standards and Technology and University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA. acingoz@jila.colorado.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 2;482(7383):45-6.

The development of the optical frequency comb (a spectrum consisting of a series 
of evenly spaced lines) has revolutionized metrology and precision spectroscopy
owing to its ability to provide a precise and direct link between microwave and
optical frequencies. A further advance in frequency comb technology is the
generation of frequency combs in the extreme-ultraviolet spectral range by means 
of high-harmonic generation in a femtosecond enhancement cavity. Until now, combs
produced by this method have lacked sufficient power for applications, a drawback
that has also hampered efforts to observe phase coherence of the
high-repetition-rate pulse train produced by high-harmonic generation, which is
an extremely nonlinear process. Here we report the generation of
extreme-ultraviolet frequency combs, reaching wavelengths of 40 nanometres, by
coupling a high-power near-infrared frequency comb to a robust femtosecond
enhancement cavity. These combs are powerful enough for us to observe
single-photon spectroscopy signals for both an argon transition at 82 nanometres 
and a neon transition at 63 nanometres, thus confirming the combs' coherence in
the extreme ultraviolet. The absolute frequency of the argon transition has been 
determined by direct frequency comb spectroscopy. The resolved ten-megahertz
linewidth of the transition, which is limited by the temperature of the argon
atoms, is unprecedented in this spectral region and places a stringent upper
limit on the linewidth of individual comb teeth. Owing to the lack of
continuous-wave lasers, extreme-ultraviolet frequency combs are at present the
only promising route to extending ultrahigh-precision spectroscopy to the
spectral region below 100 nanometres. At such wavelengths there is a wide range
of applications, including the spectroscopy of electronic transitions in
molecules, experimental tests of bound-state and many-body quantum
electrodynamics in singly ionized helium and neutral helium, the development of
next-generation 'nuclear' clocks and searches for variation of fundamental
constants using the enhanced sensitivity of highly charged ions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10711 
PMID: 22297971 


827. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7383):63-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10787.

Quantum-coherent coupling of a mechanical oscillator to an optical cavity mode.

Verhagen E(1), Deléglise S, Weis S, Schliesser A, Kippenberg TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Optical laser fields have been widely used to achieve quantum control over the
motional and internal degrees of freedom of atoms and ions, molecules and atomic 
gases. A route to controlling the quantum states of macroscopic mechanical
oscillators in a similar fashion is to exploit the parametric coupling between
optical and mechanical degrees of freedom through radiation pressure in suitably 
engineered optical cavities. If the optomechanical coupling is 'quantum
coherent'--that is, if the coherent coupling rate exceeds both the optical and
the mechanical decoherence rate--quantum states are transferred from the optical 
field to the mechanical oscillator and vice versa. This transfer allows control
of the mechanical oscillator state using the wide range of available quantum
optical techniques. So far, however, quantum-coherent coupling of micromechanical
oscillators has only been achieved using microwave fields at millikelvin
temperatures. Optical experiments have not attained this regime owing to the
large mechanical decoherence rates and the difficulty of overcoming optical
dissipation. Here we achieve quantum-coherent coupling between optical photons
and a micromechanical oscillator. Simultaneously, coupling to the cold photon
bath cools the mechanical oscillator to an average occupancy of 1.7 ± 0.1
motional quanta. Excitation with weak classical light pulses reveals the exchange
of energy between the optical light field and the micromechanical oscillator in
the time domain at the level of less than one quantum on average. This
optomechanical system establishes an efficient quantum interface between
mechanical oscillators and optical photons, which can provide decoherence-free
transport of quantum states through optical fibres. Our results offer a route
towards the use of mechanical oscillators as quantum transducers or in
microwave-to-optical quantum links.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10787 
PMID: 22297970 


828. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7384):221-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10805.

Enhancer decommissioning by LSD1 during embryonic stem cell differentiation.

Whyte WA(1), Bilodeau S, Orlando DA, Hoke HA, Frampton GM, Foster CT, Cowley SM, 
Young RA.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2018 Sep 12;:.

Transcription factors and chromatin modifiers are important in the programming
and reprogramming of cellular states during development. Transcription factors
bind to enhancer elements and recruit coactivators and chromatin-modifying
enzymes to facilitate transcription initiation. During differentiation a subset
of these enhancers must be silenced, but the mechanisms underlying enhancer
silencing are poorly understood. Here we show that the histone demethylase
lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1; ref. 5), which demethylates histone H3 on
Lys 4 or Lys 9 (H3K4/K9), is essential in decommissioning enhancers during the
differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs). LSD1 occupies enhancers of 
active genes that are critical for control of the state of ESCs. However, LSD1 is
not essential for the maintenance of ESC identity. Instead, ESCs lacking LSD1
activity fail to differentiate fully, and ESC-specific enhancers fail to undergo 
the histone demethylation events associated with differentiation. At active
enhancers, LSD1 is a component of the NuRD (nucleosome remodelling and histone
deacetylase) complex, which contains additional subunits that are necessary for
ESC differentiation. We propose that the LSD1-NuRD complex decommissions
enhancers of the pluripotency program during differentiation, which is essential 
for the complete shutdown of the ESC gene expression program and the transition
to new cell states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10805 
PMCID: PMC4144424
PMID: 22297846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7384):179-85. doi: 10.1038/nature10809.

Inflammasome-mediated dysbiosis regulates progression of NAFLD and obesity.

Henao-Mejia J(1), Elinav E, Jin C, Hao L, Mehal WZ, Strowig T, Thaiss CA, Kau AL,
Eisenbarth SC, Jurczak MJ, Camporez JP, Shulman GI, Gordon JI, Hoffman HM,
Flavell RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Apr 4;15(4):419-20.
    Am J Transplant. 2012 May;12(5):1071.
    Hepatology. 2012 Sep;56(3):1174-7.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Mar;12(3):153.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2012 Mar;9(3):123.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of
metabolic syndrome and the leading cause of chronic liver disease in the Western 
world. Twenty per cent of NAFLD individuals develop chronic hepatic inflammation 
(non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, NASH) associated with cirrhosis, portal
hypertension and hepatocellular carcinoma, yet the causes of progression from
NAFLD to NASH remain obscure. Here, we show that the NLRP6 and NLRP3
inflammasomes and the effector protein IL-18 negatively regulate NAFLD/NASH
progression, as well as multiple aspects of metabolic syndrome via modulation of 
the gut microbiota. Different mouse models reveal that
inflammasome-deficiency-associated changes in the configuration of the gut
microbiota are associated with exacerbated hepatic steatosis and inflammation
through influx of TLR4 and TLR9 agonists into the portal circulation, leading to 
enhanced hepatic tumour-necrosis factor (TNF)-α expression that drives NASH
progression. Furthermore, co-housing of inflammasome-deficient mice with
wild-type mice results in exacerbation of hepatic steatosis and obesity. Thus,
altered interactions between the gut microbiota and the host, produced by
defective NLRP3 and NLRP6 inflammasome sensing, may govern the rate of
progression of multiple metabolic syndrome-associated abnormalities, highlighting
the central role of the microbiota in the pathogenesis of heretofore seemingly
unrelated systemic auto-inflammatory and metabolic disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10809 
PMCID: PMC3276682
PMID: 22297845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nature. 2012 Feb 1;482(7385):382-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10786.

Realization of three-qubit quantum error correction with superconducting
circuits.

Reed MD(1), DiCarlo L, Nigg SE, Sun L, Frunzio L, Girvin SM, Schoelkopf RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
matthew.reed@yale.edu

Quantum computers could be used to solve certain problems exponentially faster
than classical computers, but are challenging to build because of their increased
susceptibility to errors. However, it is possible to detect and correct errors
without destroying coherence, by using quantum error correcting codes. The
simplest of these are three-quantum-bit (three-qubit) codes, which map a
one-qubit state to an entangled three-qubit state; they can correct any single
phase-flip or bit-flip error on one of the three qubits, depending on the code
used. Here we demonstrate such phase- and bit-flip error correcting codes in a
superconducting circuit. We encode a quantum state, induce errors on the qubits
and decode the error syndrome--a quantum state indicating which error has
occurred--by reversing the encoding process. This syndrome is then used as the
input to a three-qubit gate that corrects the primary qubit if it was flipped. As
the code can recover from a single error on any qubit, the fidelity of this
process should decrease only quadratically with error probability. We implement
the correcting three-qubit gate (known as a conditional-conditional NOT, or
Toffoli, gate) in 63 nanoseconds, using an interaction with the third excited
state of a single qubit. We find 85 ± 1 per cent fidelity to the expected
classical action of this gate, and 78 ± 1 per cent fidelity to the ideal quantum 
process matrix. Using this gate, we perform a single pass of both quantum bit-
and phase-flip error correction and demonstrate the predicted first-order
insensitivity to errors. Concatenation of these two codes in a nine-qubit device 
would correct arbitrary single-qubit errors. In combination with recent advances 
in superconducting qubit coherence times, this could lead to scalable quantum
technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10786 
PMID: 22297844 


831. Nature. 2012 Jan 29;482(7384):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature10795.

Hsp90 stress potentiates rapid cellular adaptation through induction of
aneuploidy.

Chen G(1), Bradford WD, Seidel CW, Li R.

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA.

Aneuploidy--the state of having uneven numbers of chromosomes--is a hallmark of
cancer and a feature identified in yeast from diverse habitats. Recent studies
have shown that aneuploidy is a form of large-effect mutation that is able to
confer adaptive phenotypes under diverse stress conditions. Here we investigate
whether pleiotropic stress could induce aneuploidy in budding yeast
(Saccharomyces cerevisae). We show that whereas diverse stress conditions can
induce an increase in chromosome instability, proteotoxic stress, caused by
transient Hsp90 (also known as Hsp82 or Hsc82) inhibition or heat shock, markedly
increased chromosome instability to produce a cell population with high karyotype
diversity. The induced chromosome instability is linked to an evolutionarily
conserved role for the Hsp90 chaperone complex in kinetochore assembly. Continued
growth in the presence of an Hsp90 inhibitor resulted in the emergence of
drug-resistant colonies with chromosome XV gain. This drug-resistance phenotype
is a quantitative trait involving copy number increases of at least two genes
located on chromosome XV. Short-term exposure to Hsp90 stress potentiated fast
adaptation to unrelated cytotoxic compounds by means of different aneuploid
chromosome stoichiometries. These findings demonstrate that aneuploidy is a form 
of stress-inducible mutation in eukaryotes, capable of fuelling rapid phenotypic 
evolution and drug resistance, and reveal a new role for Hsp90 in regulating the 
emergence of adaptive traits under stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10795 
PMCID: PMC3276732
PMID: 22286062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Nature. 2012 Jan 29;482(7384):226-31. doi: 10.1038/nature10833.

Driver mutations in histone H3.3 and chromatin remodelling genes in paediatric
glioblastoma.

Schwartzentruber J(1), Korshunov A, Liu XY, Jones DT, Pfaff E, Jacob K, Sturm D, 
Fontebasso AM, Quang DA, Tönjes M, Hovestadt V, Albrecht S, Kool M, Nantel A,
Konermann C, Lindroth A, Jäger N, Rausch T, Ryzhova M, Korbel JO, Hielscher T,
Hauser P, Garami M, Klekner A, Bognar L, Ebinger M, Schuhmann MU, Scheurlen W,
Pekrun A, Frühwald MC, Roggendorf W, Kramm C, Dürken M, Atkinson J, Lepage P,
Montpetit A, Zakrzewska M, Zakrzewski K, Liberski PP, Dong Z, Siegel P, Kulozik
AE, Zapatka M, Guha A, Malkin D, Felsberg J, Reifenberger G, von Deimling A,
Ichimura K, Collins VP, Witt H, Milde T, Witt O, Zhang C, Castelo-Branco P,
Lichter P, Faury D, Tabori U, Plass C, Majewski J, Pfister SM, Jabado N.

Author information: 
(1)McGill University and Genome Quebec Innovation Centre, Montreal, Quebec H3A
1A4, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Apr 5;484(7392):130.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Mar;12(3):156.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Mar;13(3):148-9.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a lethal brain tumour in adults and children.
However, DNA copy number and gene expression signatures indicate differences
between adult and paediatric cases. To explore the genetic events underlying this
distinction, we sequenced the exomes of 48 paediatric GBM samples. Somatic
mutations in the H3.3-ATRX-DAXX chromatin remodelling pathway were identified in 
44% of tumours (21/48). Recurrent mutations in H3F3A, which encodes the
replication-independent histone 3 variant H3.3, were observed in 31% of tumours, 
and led to amino acid substitutions at two critical positions within the histone 
tail (K27M, G34R/G34V) involved in key regulatory post-translational
modifications. Mutations in ATRX (α-thalassaemia/mental retardation syndrome
X-linked) and DAXX (death-domain associated protein), encoding two subunits of a 
chromatin remodelling complex required for H3.3 incorporation at pericentric
heterochromatin and telomeres, were identified in 31% of samples overall, and in 
100% of tumours harbouring a G34R or G34V H3.3 mutation. Somatic TP53 mutations
were identified in 54% of all cases, and in 86% of samples with H3F3A and/or ATRX
mutations. Screening of a large cohort of gliomas of various grades and
histologies (n = 784) showed H3F3A mutations to be specific to GBM and highly
prevalent in children and young adults. Furthermore, the presence of
H3F3A/ATRX-DAXX/TP53 mutations was strongly associated with alternative
lengthening of telomeres and specific gene expression profiles. This is, to our
knowledge, the first report to highlight recurrent mutations in a regulatory
histone in humans, and our data suggest that defects of the chromatin
architecture underlie paediatric and young adult GBM pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10833 
PMID: 22286061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nature. 2012 Jan 29;483(7387):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature10751.

Structural and functional conservation of key domains in InsP3 and ryanodine
receptors.

Seo MD(1), Velamakanni S, Ishiyama N, Stathopulos PB, Rossi AM, Khan SA, Dale P, 
Li C, Ames JB, Ikura M, Taylor CW.

Author information: 
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute and Department of Medical Biophysics, University of
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada.

Inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP(3)Rs) and ryanodine receptors (RyRs)
are tetrameric intracellular Ca(2+) channels. In each of these receptor families,
the pore, which is formed by carboxy-terminal transmembrane domains, is regulated
by signals that are detected by large cytosolic structures. InsP(3)R gating is
initiated by InsP(3) binding to the InsP(3)-binding core (IBC, residues 224-604
of InsP(3)R1) and it requires the suppressor domain (SD, residues 1-223 of
InsP(3)R1). Here we present structures of the amino-terminal region (NT, residues
1-604) of rat InsP(3)R1 with (3.6 Å) and without (3.0 Å) InsP(3) bound. The
arrangement of the three NT domains, SD, IBC-β and IBC-α, identifies two discrete
interfaces (α and β) between the IBC and SD. Similar interfaces occur between
equivalent domains (A, B and C) in RyR1 (ref. 9). The orientations of the three
domains when docked into a tetrameric structure of InsP(3)R and of the ABC
domains docked into RyR are remarkably similar. The importance of the α-interface
for activation of InsP(3)R and RyR is confirmed by mutagenesis and, for RyR, by
disease-causing mutations. Binding of InsP(3) causes partial closure of the
clam-like IBC, disrupting the β-interface and pulling the SD towards the IBC.
This reorients an exposed SD loop ('hotspot' (HS) loop) that is essential for
InsP(3)R activation. The loop is conserved in RyR and includes mutations that are
associated with malignant hyperthermia and central core disease. The HS loop
interacts with an adjacent NT, suggesting that activation re-arranges
inter-subunit interactions. The A domain of RyR functionally replaced the SD in
full-length InsP(3)R, and an InsP(3)R in which its C-terminal transmembrane
region was replaced by that from RyR1 was gated by InsP(3) and blocked by
ryanodine. Activation mechanisms are conserved between InsP(3)R and RyR.
Allosteric modulation of two similar domain interfaces within an N-terminal
subunit reorients the first domain (SD or A domain), allowing it, through
interactions of the second domain of an adjacent subunit (IBC-β or B domain), to 
gate the pore.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10751 
PMCID: PMC3378505
PMID: 22286060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Nature. 2012 Jan 29;482(7384):237-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10750.

G-protein-coupled receptor inactivation by an allosteric inverse-agonist
antibody.

Hino T(1), Arakawa T, Iwanari H, Yurugi-Kobayashi T, Ikeda-Suno C, Nakada-Nakura 
Y, Kusano-Arai O, Weyand S, Shimamura T, Nomura N, Cameron AD, Kobayashi T,
Hamakubo T, Iwata S, Murata T.

Author information: 
(1)Iwata Human Receptor Crystallography Project, ERATO, Japan Science and
Technology Agency, Yoshidakonoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

G-protein-coupled receptors are the largest class of cell-surface receptors, and 
these membrane proteins exist in equilibrium between inactive and active states. 
Conformational changes induced by extracellular ligands binding to
G-protein-coupled receptors result in a cellular response through the activation 
of G proteins. The A(2A) adenosine receptor (A(2A)AR) is responsible for
regulating blood flow to the cardiac muscle and is important in the regulation of
glutamate and dopamine release in the brain. Here we report the raising of a
mouse monoclonal antibody against human A(2A)AR that prevents agonist but not
antagonist binding to the extracellular ligand-binding pocket, and describe the
structure of A(2A)AR in complex with the antibody Fab fragment (Fab2838). This
structure reveals that Fab2838 recognizes the intracellular surface of A(2A)AR
and that its complementarity-determining region, CDR-H3, penetrates into the
receptor. CDR-H3 is located in a similar position to the G-protein
carboxy-terminal fragment in the active opsin structure and to CDR-3 of the
nanobody in the active β(2)-adrenergic receptor structure, but locks A(2A)AR in
an inactive conformation. These results suggest a new strategy to modulate the
activity of G-protein-coupled receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10750 
PMCID: PMC3303121
PMID: 22286059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Nature. 2012 Jan 26;483(7387):100-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10868.

Unresponsiveness of colon cancer to BRAF(V600E) inhibition through feedback
activation of EGFR.

Prahallad A(1), Sun C, Huang S, Di Nicolantonio F, Salazar R, Zecchin D,
Beijersbergen RL, Bardelli A, Bernards R.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Center for Biomedical Genetics, The
Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 1;483(7387):44-5.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2012 Mar;9(3):127.

Inhibition of the BRAF(V600E) oncoprotein by the small-molecule drug PLX4032
(vemurafenib) is highly effective in the treatment of melanoma. However, colon
cancer patients harbouring the same BRAF(V600E) oncogenic lesion have poor
prognosis and show only a very limited response to this drug. To investigate the 
cause of the limited therapeutic effect of PLX4032 in BRAF(V600E) mutant colon
tumours, here we performed an RNA-interference-based genetic screen in human
cells to search for kinases whose knockdown synergizes with BRAF(V600E)
inhibition. We report that blockade of the epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) shows strong synergy with BRAF(V600E) inhibition. We find in multiple
BRAF(V600E) mutant colon cancers that inhibition of EGFR by the antibody drug
cetuximab or the small-molecule drugs gefitinib or erlotinib is strongly
synergistic with BRAF(V600E) inhibition, both in vitro and in vivo.
Mechanistically, we find that BRAF(V600E) inhibition causes a rapid feedback
activation of EGFR, which supports continued proliferation in the presence of
BRAF(V600E) inhibition. Melanoma cells express low levels of EGFR and are
therefore not subject to this feedback activation. Consistent with this, we find 
that ectopic expression of EGFR in melanoma cells is sufficient to cause
resistance to PLX4032. Our data suggest that BRAF(V600E) mutant colon cancers
(approximately 8-10% of all colon cancers), for which there are currently no
targeted treatment options available, might benefit from combination therapy
consisting of BRAF and EGFR inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10868 
PMID: 22281684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;481(7382):497-501. doi: 10.1038/nature10736.

Social networks and cooperation in hunter-gatherers.

Apicella CL(1), Marlowe FW, Fowler JH, Christakis NA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantitative Social Science, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):449-50.

Social networks show striking structural regularities, and both theory and
evidence suggest that networks may have facilitated the development of
large-scale cooperation in humans. Here, we characterize the social networks of
the Hadza, a population of hunter-gatherers in Tanzania. We show that Hadza
networks have important properties also seen in modernized social networks,
including a skewed degree distribution, degree assortativity, transitivity,
reciprocity, geographic decay and homophily. We demonstrate that Hadza camps
exhibit high between-group and low within-group variation in public goods game
donations. Network ties are also more likely between people who give the same
amount, and the similarity in cooperative behaviour extends up to two degrees of 
separation. Social distance appears to be as important as genetic relatedness and
physical proximity in explaining assortativity in cooperation. Our results
suggest that certain elements of social network structure may have been present
at an early point in human history. Also, early humans may have formed ties with 
both kin and non-kin, based in part on their tendency to cooperate. Social
networks may thus have contributed to the emergence of cooperation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10736 
PMCID: PMC3340565
PMID: 22281599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;481(7382):488-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10721.

Atomic inner-shell X-ray laser at 1.46 nanometres pumped by an X-ray
free-electron laser.

Rohringer N(1), Ryan D, London RA, Purvis M, Albert F, Dunn J, Bozek JD, Bostedt 
C, Graf A, Hill R, Hau-Riege SP, Rocca JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 7000 East Avenue, Livermore,
California 94551, USA. nina.rohringer@asg.mpg.de

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):452-3.

Since the invention of the laser more than 50 years ago, scientists have striven 
to achieve amplification on atomic transitions of increasingly shorter
wavelength. The introduction of X-ray free-electron lasers makes it possible to
pump new atomic X-ray lasers with ultrashort pulse duration, extreme spectral
brightness and full temporal coherence. Here we describe the implementation of an
X-ray laser in the kiloelectronvolt energy regime, based on atomic population
inversion and driven by rapid K-shell photo-ionization using pulses from an X-ray
free-electron laser. We established a population inversion of the Kα transition
in singly ionized neon at 1.46 nanometres (corresponding to a photon energy of
849 electronvolts) in an elongated plasma column created by irradiation of a gas 
medium. We observed strong amplified spontaneous emission from the end of the
excited plasma. This resulted in femtosecond-duration, high-intensity X-ray
pulses of much shorter wavelength and greater brilliance than achieved with
previous atomic X-ray lasers. Moreover, this scheme provides greatly increased
wavelength stability, monochromaticity and improved temporal coherence by
comparison with present-day X-ray free-electron lasers. The atomic X-ray lasers
realized here may be useful for high-resolution spectroscopy and nonlinear X-ray 
studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10721 
PMID: 22281598 


838. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;481(7382):484-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10748.

Light-cone-like spreading of correlations in a quantum many-body system.

Cheneau M(1), Barmettler P, Poletti D, Endres M, Schauss P, Fukuhara T, Gross C, 
Bloch I, Kollath C, Kuhr S.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, 85748 Garching, Germany.
marc.cheneau@mpq.mpg

In relativistic quantum field theory, information propagation is bounded by the
speed of light. No such limit exists in the non-relativistic case, although in
real physical systems, short-range interactions may be expected to restrict the
propagation of information to finite velocities. The question of how fast
correlations can spread in quantum many-body systems has been long studied. The
existence of a maximal velocity, known as the Lieb-Robinson bound, has been shown
theoretically to exist in several interacting many-body systems (for example,
spins on a lattice)--such systems can be regarded as exhibiting an effective
light cone that bounds the propagation speed of correlations. The existence of
such a 'speed of light' has profound implications for condensed matter physics
and quantum information, but has not been observed experimentally. Here we report
the time-resolved detection of propagating correlations in an interacting quantum
many-body system. By quenching a one-dimensional quantum gas in an optical
lattice, we reveal how quasiparticle pairs transport correlations with a finite
velocity across the system, resulting in an effective light cone for the quantum 
dynamics. Our results open perspectives for understanding the relaxation of
closed quantum systems far from equilibrium, and for engineering the efficient
quantum channels necessary for fast quantum computations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10748 
PMID: 22281597 


839. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;481(7382):480-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10747.

Generation of scaled protogalactic seed magnetic fields in laser-produced shock
waves.

Gregori G(1), Ravasio A, Murphy CD, Schaar K, Baird A, Bell AR, Benuzzi-Mounaix
A, Bingham R, Constantin C, Drake RP, Edwards M, Everson ET, Gregory CD,
Kuramitsu Y, Lau W, Mithen J, Niemann C, Park HS, Remington BA, Reville B,
Robinson AP, Ryutov DD, Sakawa Y, Yang S, Woolsey NC, Koenig M, Miniati F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, UK.
g.gregori1@physics.ox.ac.uk

The standard model for the origin of galactic magnetic fields is through the
amplification of seed fields via dynamo or turbulent processes to the level
consistent with present observations. Although other mechanisms may also operate,
currents from misaligned pressure and temperature gradients (the Biermann battery
process) inevitably accompany the formation of galaxies in the absence of a
primordial field. Driven by geometrical asymmetries in shocks associated with the
collapse of protogalactic structures, the Biermann battery is believed to
generate tiny seed fields to a level of about 10(-21) gauss (refs 7, 8). With the
advent of high-power laser systems in the past two decades, a new area of
research has opened in which, using simple scaling relations, astrophysical
environments can effectively be reproduced in the laboratory. Here we report the 
results of an experiment that produced seed magnetic fields by the Biermann
battery effect. We show that these results can be scaled to the intergalactic
medium, where turbulence, acting on timescales of around 700 million years, can
amplify the seed fields sufficiently to affect galaxy evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10747 
PMID: 22281596 


840. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;481(7382):457-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10783.

Endothelial and perivascular cells maintain haematopoietic stem cells.

Ding L(1), Saunders TL, Enikolopov G, Morrison SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):453-5.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2013 Apr 4;12(4):391-2.

Several cell types have been proposed to create niches for haematopoietic stem
cells (HSCs). However, the expression patterns of HSC maintenance factors have
not been systematically studied and no such factor has been conditionally deleted
from any candidate niche cell. Thus, the cellular sources of these factors are
undetermined. Stem cell factor (SCF; also known as KITL) is a key niche component
that maintains HSCs. Here, using Scf(gfp) knock-in mice, we found that Scf was
primarily expressed by perivascular cells throughout the bone marrow. HSC
frequency and function were not affected when Scf was conditionally deleted from 
haematopoietic cells, osteoblasts, nestin-cre- or nestin-creER-expressing cells. 
However, HSCs were depleted from bone marrow when Scf was deleted from
endothelial cells or leptin receptor (Lepr)-expressing perivascular stromal
cells. Most HSCs were lost when Scf was deleted from both endothelial and
Lepr-expressing perivascular cells. Thus, HSCs reside in a perivascular niche in 
which multiple cell types express factors that promote HSC maintenance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10783 
PMCID: PMC3270376
PMID: 22281595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;482(7383):47-52. doi: 10.1038/nature10776.

Conditional modulation of spike-timing-dependent plasticity for olfactory
learning.

Cassenaer S(1), Laurent G.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 
91125, USA. stijn@caltech.edu

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):128.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 2;482(7383):39-41.

Mushroom bodies are a well-known site for associative learning in insects. Yet
the precise mechanisms that underlie plasticity there and ensure their
specificity remain elusive. In locusts, the synapses between the intrinsic
mushroom body neurons and their postsynaptic targets obey a Hebbian
spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) rule. Although this property
homeostatically regulates the timing of mushroom body output, its potential role 
in associative learning is unknown. Here we show in vivo that pre-post pairing
causing STDP can, when followed by the local delivery of a
reinforcement-mediating neuromodulator, specify the synapses that will undergo an
associative change. At these synapses, and there only, the change is a
transformation of the STDP rule itself. These results illustrate the multiple
actions of STDP, including a role in associative learning, despite potential
temporal dissociation between the pairings that specify synaptic modification and
the delivery of reinforcement-mediating neuromodulator signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10776 
PMID: 22278062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;482(7386):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature10753.

Structure of the human M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor bound to an
antagonist.

Haga K(1), Kruse AC, Asada H, Yurugi-Kobayashi T, Shiroishi M, Zhang C, Weis WI, 
Okada T, Kobilka BK, Haga T, Kobayashi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Faculty of Science, Gakushuin University, Mejiro
1-5-1, Tokyo 171-8588, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 23;482(7386):480-1.

The parasympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system regulates the activity
of multiple organ systems. Muscarinic receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors
that mediate the response to acetylcholine released from parasympathetic nerves. 
Their role in the unconscious regulation of organ and central nervous system
function makes them potential therapeutic targets for a broad spectrum of
diseases. The M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M2 receptor) is essential for
the physiological control of cardiovascular function through activation of
G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channels, and is of particular
interest because of its extensive pharmacological characterization with both
orthosteric and allosteric ligands. Here we report the structure of the
antagonist-bound human M2 receptor, the first human acetylcholine receptor to be 
characterized structurally, to our knowledge. The antagonist
3-quinuclidinyl-benzilate binds in the middle of a long aqueous channel extending
approximately two-thirds through the membrane. The orthosteric binding pocket is 
formed by amino acids that are identical in all five muscarinic receptor
subtypes, and shares structural homology with other functionally unrelated
acetylcholine binding proteins from different species. A layer of tyrosine
residues forms an aromatic cap restricting dissociation of the bound ligand. A
binding site for allosteric ligands has been mapped to residues at the entrance
to the binding pocket near this aromatic cap. The structure of the M2 receptor
provides insights into the challenges of developing subtype-selective ligands for
muscarinic receptors and their propensity for allosteric regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10753 
PMCID: PMC3345277
PMID: 22278061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;482(7384):216-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10821.

Probing sporadic and familial Alzheimer's disease using induced pluripotent stem 
cells.

Israel MA(1), Yuan SH, Bardy C, Reyna SM, Mu Y, Herrera C, Hefferan MP, Van Gorp 
S, Nazor KL, Boscolo FS, Carson CT, Laurent LC, Marsala M, Gage FH, Remes AM, Koo
EH, Goldstein LS.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Cellular and Molecular
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2012 Mar 2;10(3):235-6.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Mar;13(3):149.

Our understanding of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis is currently limited by
difficulties in obtaining live neurons from patients and the inability to model
the sporadic form of the disease. It may be possible to overcome these challenges
by reprogramming primary cells from patients into induced pluripotent stem cells 
(iPSCs). Here we reprogrammed primary fibroblasts from two patients with familial
Alzheimer's disease, both caused by a duplication of the amyloid-β precursor
protein gene (APP; termed APP(Dp)), two with sporadic Alzheimer's disease (termed
sAD1, sAD2) and two non-demented control individuals into iPSC lines. Neurons
from differentiated cultures were purified with fluorescence-activated cell
sorting and characterized. Purified cultures contained more than 90% neurons,
clustered with fetal brain messenger RNA samples by microarray criteria, and
could form functional synaptic contacts. Virtually all cells exhibited normal
electrophysiological activity. Relative to controls, iPSC-derived, purified
neurons from the two APP(Dp) patients and patient sAD2 exhibited significantly
higher levels of the pathological markers amyloid-β(1-40), phospho-tau(Thr 231)
and active glycogen synthase kinase-3β (aGSK-3β). Neurons from APP(Dp) and sAD2
patients also accumulated large RAB5-positive early endosomes compared to
controls. Treatment of purified neurons with β-secretase inhibitors, but not
γ-secretase inhibitors, caused significant reductions in phospho-Tau(Thr 231) and
aGSK-3β levels. These results suggest a direct relationship between APP
proteolytic processing, but not amyloid-β, in GSK-3β activation and tau
phosphorylation in human neurons. Additionally, we observed that neurons with the
genome of one sAD patient exhibited the phenotypes seen in familial Alzheimer's
disease samples. More generally, we demonstrate that iPSC technology can be used 
to observe phenotypes relevant to Alzheimer's disease, even though it can take
decades for overt disease to manifest in patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10821 
PMCID: PMC3338985
PMID: 22278060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;482(7383):59-62. doi: 10.1038/nature10746.

Creation and diagnosis of a solid-density plasma with an X-ray free-electron
laser.

Vinko SM(1), Ciricosta O, Cho BI, Engelhorn K, Chung HK, Brown CR, Burian T,
Chalupský J, Falcone RW, Graves C, Hájková V, Higginbotham A, Juha L, Krzywinski 
J, Lee HJ, Messerschmidt M, Murphy CD, Ping Y, Scherz A, Schlotter W, Toleikis S,
Turner JJ, Vysin L, Wang T, Wu B, Zastrau U, Zhu D, Lee RW, Heimann PA, Nagler B,
Wark JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Clarendon Laboratory, University of Oxford, Parks Road,
Oxford OX1 3PU, UK. sam.vinko@physics.ox.ac.uk

Matter with a high energy density (>10(5) joules per cm(3)) is prevalent
throughout the Universe, being present in all types of stars and towards the
centre of the giant planets; it is also relevant for inertial confinement fusion.
Its thermodynamic and transport properties are challenging to measure, requiring 
the creation of sufficiently long-lived samples at homogeneous temperatures and
densities. With the advent of the Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS) X-ray laser,
high-intensity radiation (>10(17) watts per cm(2), previously the domain of
optical lasers) can be produced at X-ray wavelengths. The interaction of single
atoms with such intense X-rays has recently been investigated. An understanding
of the contrasting case of intense X-ray interaction with dense systems is
important from a fundamental viewpoint and for applications. Here we report the
experimental creation of a solid-density plasma at temperatures in excess of
10(6) kelvin on inertial-confinement timescales using an X-ray free-electron
laser. We discuss the pertinent physics of the intense X-ray-matter interactions,
and illustrate the importance of electron-ion collisions. Detailed simulations of
the interaction process conducted with a radiative-collisional code show good
qualitative agreement with the experimental results. We obtain insights into the 
evolution of the charge state distribution of the system, the electron density
and temperature, and the timescales of collisional processes. Our results should 
inform future high-intensity X-ray experiments involving dense samples, such as
X-ray diffractive imaging of biological systems, material science investigations,
and the study of matter in extreme conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10746 
PMID: 22278059 


845. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;482(7384):241-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10752.

Gated regulation of CRAC channel ion selectivity by STIM1.

McNally BA(1), Somasundaram A, Yamashita M, Prakriya M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Biological Chemistry, Northwestern
University School of Medicine, 303 E Chicago Avenue, Ward 8-296, Chicago,
Illinois 60611, USA.

Two defining functional features of ion channels are ion selectivity and channel 
gating. Ion selectivity is generally considered an immutable property of the open
channel structure, whereas gating involves transitions between open and closed
channel states, typically without changes in ion selectivity. In store-operated
Ca(2+) release-activated Ca(2+) (CRAC) channels, the molecular mechanism of
channel gating by the CRAC channel activator, stromal interaction molecule 1
(STIM1), remains unknown. CRAC channels are distinguished by a very high Ca(2+)
selectivity and are instrumental in generating sustained intracellular calcium
concentration elevations that are necessary for gene expression and effector
function in many eukaryotic cells. Here we probe the central features of the
STIM1 gating mechanism in the human CRAC channel protein, ORAI1, and identify
V102, a residue located in the extracellular region of the pore, as a candidate
for the channel gate. Mutations at V102 produce constitutively active CRAC
channels that are open even in the absence of STIM1. Unexpectedly, although
STIM1-free V102 mutant channels are not Ca(2+)-selective, their Ca(2+)
selectivity is dose-dependently boosted by interactions with STIM1. Similar
enhancement of Ca(2+) selectivity is also seen in wild-type ORAI1 channels by
increasing the number of STIM1 activation domains that are directly tethered to
ORAI1 channels, or by increasing the relative expression of full-length STIM1.
Thus, exquisite Ca(2+) selectivity is not an intrinsic property of CRAC channels 
but rather a tuneable feature that is bestowed on otherwise non-selective ORAI1
channels by STIM1. Our results demonstrate that STIM1-mediated gating of CRAC
channels occurs through an unusual mechanism in which permeation and gating are
closely coupled.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10752 
PMCID: PMC3276717
PMID: 22278058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2012 Jan 25;482(7384):232-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10771.

High-throughput decoding of antitrypanosomal drug efficacy and resistance.

Alsford S(1), Eckert S, Baker N, Glover L, Sanchez-Flores A, Leung KF, Turner DJ,
Field MC, Berriman M, Horn D.

Author information: 
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, WC1E
7HT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 9;482(7384):167-9.

The concept of disease-specific chemotherapy was developed a century ago. Dyes
and arsenical compounds that displayed selectivity against trypanosomes were
central to this work, and the drugs that emerged remain in use for treating human
African trypanosomiasis (HAT). The importance of understanding the mechanisms
underlying selective drug action and resistance for the development of improved
HAT therapies has been recognized, but these mechanisms have remained largely
unknown. Here we use all five current HAT drugs for genome-scale RNA interference
target sequencing (RIT-seq) screens in Trypanosoma brucei, revealing the
transporters, organelles, enzymes and metabolic pathways that function to
facilitate antitrypanosomal drug action. RIT-seq profiling identifies both known 
drug importers and the only known pro-drug activator, and links more than fifty
additional genes to drug action. A bloodstream stage-specific invariant surface
glycoprotein (ISG75) family mediates suramin uptake, and the AP1 adaptin complex,
lysosomal proteases and major lysosomal transmembrane protein, as well as
spermidine and N-acetylglucosamine biosynthesis, all contribute to suramin
action. Further screens link ubiquinone availability to nitro-drug action, plasma
membrane P-type H(+)-ATPases to pentamidine action, and trypanothione and several
putative kinases to melarsoprol action. We also demonstrate a major role for
aquaglyceroporins in pentamidine and melarsoprol cross-resistance. These advances
in our understanding of mechanisms of antitrypanosomal drug efficacy and
resistance will aid the rational design of new therapies and help to combat drug 
resistance, and provide unprecedented molecular insight into the mode of action
of antitrypanosomal drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10771 
PMCID: PMC3303116
PMID: 22278056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nature. 2012 Jan 22;482(7383):116-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10743.

Structures of cytochrome P450 17A1 with prostate cancer drugs abiraterone and
TOK-001.

DeVore NM(1), Scott EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, 1251 Wescoe Hall Drive, University of
Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas 66045, USA.

Cytochrome P450 17A1 (also known as CYP17A1 and cytochrome P450c17) catalyses the
biosynthesis of androgens in humans. As prostate cancer cells proliferate in
response to androgen steroids, CYP17A1 inhibition is a new strategy to prevent
androgen synthesis and treat lethal metastatic castration-resistant prostate
cancer, but drug development has been hampered by lack of information regarding
the structure of CYP17A1. Here we report X-ray crystal structures of CYP17A1,
which were obtained in the presence of either abiraterone, a first-in-class
steroidal inhibitor recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for 
late-stage prostate cancer, or TOK-001, an inhibitor that is currently undergoing
clinical trials. Both of these inhibitors bind the haem iron, forming a 60° angle
above the haem plane and packing against the central I helix with the 3β-OH
interacting with aspargine 202 in the F helix. Notably, this binding mode differs
substantially from those that are predicted by homology models and from steroids 
in other cytochrome P450 enzymes with known structures, and some features of this
binding mode are more similar to steroid receptors. Whereas the overall structure
of CYP17A1 provides a rationale for understanding many mutations that are found
in patients with steroidogenic diseases, the active site reveals multiple steric 
and hydrogen bonding features that will facilitate a better understanding of the 
enzyme's dual hydroxylase and lyase catalytic capabilities and assist in rational
drug design. Specifically, structure-based design is expected to aid development 
of inhibitors that bind only CYP17A1 and solely inhibit its androgen-generating
lyase activity to improve treatment of prostate and other hormone-responsive
cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10743 
PMCID: PMC3271139
PMID: 22266943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Nature. 2012 Jan 22;482(7383):107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10729.

Adenylylation control by intra- or intermolecular active-site obstruction in Fic 
proteins.

Engel P(1), Goepfert A, Stanger FV, Harms A, Schmidt A, Schirmer T, Dehio C.

Author information: 
(1)Focal Area Infection Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2012 Mar;10(3):160.

Fic proteins that are defined by the ubiquitous FIC (filamentation induced by
cyclic AMP) domain are known to catalyse adenylylation (also called AMPylation); 
that is, the transfer of AMP onto a target protein. In mammalian cells,
adenylylation of small GTPases through Fic proteins injected by pathogenic
bacteria can cause collapse of the actin cytoskeleton and cell death. It is
unknown how this potentially deleterious adenylylation activity is regulated in
the widespread Fic proteins that are found in all domains of life and that are
thought to have critical roles in intrinsic signalling processes. Here we show
that FIC-domain-mediated adenylylation is controlled by a conserved mechanism of 
ATP-binding-site obstruction that involves an inhibitory α-helix (α(inh)) with a 
conserved (S/T)XXXE(G/N) motif, and that in this mechanism the invariable
glutamate competes with ATP γ-phosphate binding. Consistent with this,
FIC-domain-mediated growth arrest of bacteria by the VbhT toxin of Bartonella
schoenbuchensis is intermolecularly repressed by the VbhA antitoxin through tight
binding of its α(inh) to the FIC domain of VbhT, as shown by structure and
function analysis. Furthermore, structural comparisons with other bacterial Fic
proteins, such as Fic of Neisseria meningitidis and of Shewanella oneidensis,
show that α(inh) frequently constitutes an amino-terminal or carboxy-terminal
extension to the FIC domain, respectively, partially obstructing the ATP binding 
site in an intramolecular manner. After mutation of the inhibitory motif in
various Fic proteins, including the human homologue FICD (also known as HYPE),
adenylylation activity is considerably boosted, consistent with the anticipated
relief of inhibition. Structural homology modelling of all annotated Fic proteins
indicates that inhibition by α(inh) is universal and conserved through evolution,
as the inhibitory motif is present in ∼90% of all putatively adenylylation-active
FIC domains, including examples from all domains of life and from viruses. Future
studies should reveal how intrinsic or extrinsic factors modulate adenylylation
activity by weakening the interaction of α(inh) with the FIC active site.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10729 
PMID: 22266942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Nature. 2012 Jan 22;482(7385):369-74. doi: 10.1038/nature10870.

Crystal structure of the channelrhodopsin light-gated cation channel.

Kato HE(1), Zhang F, Yizhar O, Ramakrishnan C, Nishizawa T, Hirata K, Ito J, Aita
Y, Tsukazaki T, Hayashi S, Hegemann P, Maturana AD, Ishitani R, Deisseroth K,
Nureki O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, 2-11-16 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):318-9.

Channelrhodopsins (ChRs) are light-gated cation channels derived from algae that 
have shown experimental utility in optogenetics; for example, neurons expressing 
ChRs can be optically controlled with high temporal precision within systems as
complex as freely moving mammals. Although ChRs have been broadly applied to
neuroscience research, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which
these unusual and powerful proteins operate. Here we present the crystal
structure of a ChR (a C1C2 chimaera between ChR1 and ChR2 from Chlamydomonas
reinhardtii) at 2.3 Å resolution. The structure reveals the essential molecular
architecture of ChRs, including the retinal-binding pocket and cation conduction 
pathway. This integration of structural and electrophysiological analyses
provides insight into the molecular basis for the remarkable function of ChRs,
and paves the way for the precise and principled design of ChR variants with
novel properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10870 
PMCID: PMC4160518
PMID: 22266941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Nature. 2012 Jan 22;482(7383):94-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10756.

Maternal and paternal genomes contribute equally to the transcriptome of early
plant embryos.

Nodine MD(1), Bartel DP.

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 2;482(7383):42-4.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Mar;13(3):147.

In animals, maternal gene products deposited into eggs regulate embryonic
development before activation of the zygotic genome. In plants, an analogous
period of prolonged maternal control over embryogenesis is thought to occur based
on some gene-expression studies. However, other gene-expression studies and
genetic analyses show that some transcripts must derive from the early zygotic
genome, implying that the prevailing model does not fully explain the nature of
zygotic genome activation in plants. To determine the maternal, paternal and
zygotic contributions to the early embryonic transcriptome, we sequenced the
transcripts of hybrid embryos from crosses between two polymorphic inbred lines
of Arabidopsis thaliana and used single-nucleotide polymorphisms diagnostic of
each parental line to quantify parental contributions. Although some transcripts 
seemed to be either inherited from primarily one parent or transcribed from
imprinted loci, the vast majority of transcripts were produced in near-equal
amounts from both maternal and paternal alleles, even during the initial stages
of embryogenesis. Results of reporter experiments and analyses of transcripts
from genes that are not expressed in sperm and egg indicate early and widespread 
zygotic transcription. Thus, in contrast to early animal embryogenesis, early
plant embryogenesis is mostly under zygotic control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10756 
PMCID: PMC3477627
PMID: 22266940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Nature. 2012 Jan 22;482(7383):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature10814.

Mutations in kelch-like 3 and cullin 3 cause hypertension and electrolyte
abnormalities.

Boyden LM(1), Choi M, Choate KA, Nelson-Williams CJ, Farhi A, Toka HR, Tikhonova 
IR, Bjornson R, Mane SM, Colussi G, Lebel M, Gordon RD, Semmekrot BA, Poujol A,
Välimäki MJ, De Ferrari ME, Sanjad SA, Gutkin M, Karet FE, Tucci JR, Stockigt JR,
Keppler-Noreuil KM, Porter CC, Anand SK, Whiteford ML, Davis ID, Dewar SB,
Bettinelli A, Fadrowski JJ, Belsha CW, Hunley TE, Nelson RD, Trachtman H, Cole
TR, Pinsk M, Bockenhauer D, Shenoy M, Vaidyanathan P, Foreman JW, Rasoulpour M,
Thameem F, Al-Shahrouri HZ, Radhakrishnan J, Gharavi AG, Goilav B, Lifton RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2012 Apr 1;5(2):267-8.

Hypertension affects one billion people and is a principal reversible risk factor
for cardiovascular disease. Pseudohypoaldosteronism type II (PHAII), a rare
Mendelian syndrome featuring hypertension, hyperkalaemia and metabolic acidosis, 
has revealed previously unrecognized physiology orchestrating the balance between
renal salt reabsorption and K(+) and H(+) excretion. Here we used exome
sequencing to identify mutations in kelch-like 3 (KLHL3) or cullin 3 (CUL3) in
PHAII patients from 41 unrelated families. KLHL3 mutations are either recessive
or dominant, whereas CUL3 mutations are dominant and predominantly de novo. CUL3 
and BTB-domain-containing kelch proteins such as KLHL3 are components of
cullin-RING E3 ligase complexes that ubiquitinate substrates bound to kelch
propeller domains. Dominant KLHL3 mutations are clustered in short segments
within the kelch propeller and BTB domains implicated in substrate and cullin
binding, respectively. Diverse CUL3 mutations all result in skipping of exon 9,
producing an in-frame deletion. Because dominant KLHL3 and CUL3 mutations both
phenocopy recessive loss-of-function KLHL3 mutations, they may abrogate
ubiquitination of KLHL3 substrates. Disease features are reversed by thiazide
diuretics, which inhibit the Na-Cl cotransporter in the distal nephron of the
kidney; KLHL3 and CUL3 are expressed in this location, suggesting a mechanistic
link between KLHL3 and CUL3 mutations, increased Na-Cl reabsorption, and disease 
pathogenesis. These findings demonstrate the utility of exome sequencing in
disease gene identification despite the combined complexities of locus
heterogeneity, mixed models of transmission and frequent de novo mutation, and
establish a fundamental role for KLHL3 and CUL3 in blood pressure, K(+) and pH
homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10814 
PMCID: PMC3278668
PMID: 22266938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):352-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10740.

Kimberlite ascent by assimilation-fuelled buoyancy.

Russell JK(1), Porritt LA, Lavallée Y, Dingwell DB.

Author information: 
(1)Volcanology and Petrology Laboratory, Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver V6T 1Z4, Canada. krussell@eos.ubc.ca

Kimberlite magmas have the deepest origin of all terrestrial magmas and are
exclusively associated with cratons. During ascent, they travel through about 150
kilometres of cratonic mantle lithosphere and entrain seemingly prohibitive loads
(more than 25 per cent by volume) of mantle-derived xenoliths and xenocrysts
(including diamond). Kimberlite magmas also reputedly have higher ascent rates
than other xenolith-bearing magmas. Exsolution of dissolved volatiles (carbon
dioxide and water) is thought to be essential to provide sufficient buoyancy for 
the rapid ascent of these dense, crystal-rich magmas. The cause and nature of
such exsolution, however, remains elusive and is rarely specified. Here we use a 
series of high-temperature experiments to demonstrate a mechanism for the
spontaneous, efficient and continuous production of this volatile phase. This
mechanism requires parental melts of kimberlite to originate as carbonatite-like 
melts. In transit through the mantle lithosphere, these silica-undersaturated
melts assimilate mantle minerals, especially orthopyroxene, driving the melt to
more silicic compositions, and causing a marked drop in carbon dioxide
solubility. The solubility drop manifests itself immediately in a continuous and 
vigorous exsolution of a fluid phase, thereby reducing magma density, increasing 
buoyancy, and driving the rapid and accelerating ascent of the increasingly
kimberlitic magma. Our model provides an explanation for continuous ascent of
magmas laden with high volumes of dense mantle cargo, an explanation for the
chemical diversity of kimberlite, and a connection between kimberlites and
cratons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10740 
PMID: 22258614 


853. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):344-7. doi: 10.1038/nature10707.

Coherent singlet-triplet oscillations in a silicon-based double quantum dot.

Maune BM(1), Borselli MG, Huang B, Ladd TD, Deelman PW, Holabird KS, Kiselev AA, 
Alvarado-Rodriguez I, Ross RS, Schmitz AE, Sokolich M, Watson CA, Gyure MF,
Hunter AT.

Author information: 
(1)HRL Laboratories LLC, 3011 Malibu Canyon Road, Malibu, California 90265, USA. 
bmmaune@hrl.com

Silicon is more than the dominant material in the conventional microelectronics
industry: it also has potential as a host material for emerging quantum
information technologies. Standard fabrication techniques already allow the
isolation of single electron spins in silicon transistor-like devices. Although
this is also possible in other materials, silicon-based systems have the
advantage of interacting more weakly with nuclear spins. Reducing such
interactions is important for the control of spin quantum bits because nuclear
fluctuations limit quantum phase coherence, as seen in recent experiments in
GaAs-based quantum dots. Advances in reducing nuclear decoherence effects by
means of complex control still result in coherence times much shorter than those 
seen in experiments on large ensembles of impurity-bound electrons in bulk
silicon crystals. Here we report coherent control of electron spins in two
coupled quantum dots in an undoped Si/SiGe heterostructure and show that this
system has a nuclei-induced dephasing time of 360 nanoseconds, which is an
increase by nearly two orders of magnitude over similar measurements in
GaAs-based quantum dots. The degree of phase coherence observed, combined with
fast, gated electrical initialization, read-out and control, should motivate
future development of silicon-based quantum information processors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10707 
PMID: 22258613 


854. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):341-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10669.

Gravitational detection of a low-mass dark satellite galaxy at cosmological
distance.

Vegetti S(1), Lagattuta DJ, McKean JP, Auger MW, Fassnacht CD, Koopmans LV.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. svegetti@space.mit.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 19;481(7381):271-3.

The mass function of dwarf satellite galaxies that are observed around Local
Group galaxies differs substantially from simulations based on cold dark matter: 
the simulations predict many more dwarf galaxies than are seen. The Local Group, 
however, may be anomalous in this regard. A massive dark satellite in an
early-type lens galaxy at a redshift of 0.222 was recently found using a method
based on gravitational lensing, suggesting that the mass fraction contained in
substructure could be higher than is predicted from simulations. The lack of very
low-mass detections, however, prohibited any constraint on their mass function.
Here we report the presence of a (1.9 ± 0.1) × 10(8) M dark satellite galaxy in
the Einstein ring system JVAS B1938+666 (ref. 11) at a redshift of 0.881, where M
denotes the solar mass. This satellite galaxy has a mass similar to that of the
Sagittarius galaxy, which is a satellite of the Milky Way. We determine the
logarithmic slope of the mass function for substructure beyond the local Universe
to be 1.1(+0.6)(-0.4), with an average mass fraction of 3.3(+3.6)(-1.8) per cent,
by combining data on both of these recently discovered galaxies. Our results are 
consistent with the predictions from cold dark matter simulations at the 95 per
cent confidence level, and therefore agree with the view that galaxies formed
hierarchically in a Universe composed of cold dark matter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10669 
PMID: 22258612 


855. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):321-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10717.

The Amazon basin in transition.

Davidson EA(1), de Araújo AC, Artaxo P, Balch JK, Brown IF, C Bustamante MM, Coe 
MT, DeFries RS, Keller M, Longo M, Munger JW, Schroeder W, Soares-Filho BS, Souza
CM Jr, Wofsy SC.

Author information: 
(1)The Woods Hole Research Center, 149 Woods Hole Road, Falmouth, Massachusetts
02540-1644, USA. edavidson@whrc.org

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 8;483(7388):232.

Agricultural expansion and climate variability have become important agents of
disturbance in the Amazon basin. Recent studies have demonstrated considerable
resilience of Amazonian forests to moderate annual drought, but they also show
that interactions between deforestation, fire and drought potentially lead to
losses of carbon storage and changes in regional precipitation patterns and river
discharge. Although the basin-wide impacts of land use and drought may not yet
surpass the magnitude of natural variability of hydrologic and biogeochemical
cycles, there are some signs of a transition to a disturbance-dominated regime.
These signs include changing energy and water cycles in the southern and eastern 
portions of the Amazon basin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10717 
PMID: 22258611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):314-20. doi: 10.1038/nature10763.

The contribution of bone to whole-organism physiology.

Karsenty G(1), Ferron M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Development, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA. gk2172@columbia.edu

The mouse genetic revolution has shown repeatedly that most organs have more
functions than expected. This has led to the realization that, in addition to a
molecular and cellular approach, there is a need for a whole-organism study of
physiology. The skeleton is an example of how a whole-organism approach to
physiology can broaden the functions of a given organ, reveal connections of this
organ with others such as the brain, pancreas and gut, and shed new light on the 
pathogenesis of degenerative diseases affecting multiple organs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10763 
PMID: 22258610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):306-13. doi: 10.1038/nature10762.

Clonal evolution in cancer.

Greaves M(1), Maley CC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, Brookes
Lawley Building, 15 Cotswold Road, Sutton, Surrey SM2 5NG, UK.
mel.greaves@icr.ac.uk

Cancers evolve by a reiterative process of clonal expansion, genetic
diversification and clonal selection within the adaptive landscapes of tissue
ecosystems. The dynamics are complex, with highly variable patterns of genetic
diversity and resulting clonal architecture. Therapeutic intervention may destroy
cancer clones and erode their habitats, but it can also inadvertently provide a
potent selective pressure for the expansion of resistant variants. The inherently
Darwinian character of cancer is the primary reason for this therapeutic failure,
but it may also hold the key to more effective control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10762 
PMCID: PMC3367003
PMID: 22258609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):295-305. doi: 10.1038/nature10761.

The promise of induced pluripotent stem cells in research and therapy.

Robinton DA(1), Daley GQ.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Transplantation Program, Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, 
Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Children's Hospital Boston and Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The field of stem-cell biology has been catapulted forward by the startling
development of reprogramming technology. The ability to restore pluripotency to
somatic cells through the ectopic co-expression of reprogramming factors has
created powerful new opportunities for modelling human diseases and offers hope
for personalized regenerative cell therapies. While the field is racing ahead,
some researchers are pausing to evaluate whether induced pluripotent stem cells
are indeed the true equivalents of embryonic stem cells and whether subtle
differences between these types of cell might affect their research applications 
and therapeutic potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10761 
PMCID: PMC3652331
PMID: 22258608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):287-94. doi: 10.1038/nature10760.

The DNA damage response and cancer therapy.

Lord CJ(1), Ashworth A.

Author information: 
(1)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, The Institute of Cancer
Research, Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK. chris.lord@icr.ac.uk

Genomic instability is one of the most pervasive characteristics of tumour cells 
and is probably the combined effect of DNA damage, tumour-specific DNA repair
defects, and a failure to stop or stall the cell cycle before the damaged DNA is 
passed on to daughter cells. Although these processes drive genomic instability
and ultimately the disease process, they also provide therapeutic opportunities. 
A better understanding of the cellular response to DNA damage will not only
inform our knowledge of cancer development but also help to refine the
classification as well as the treatment of the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10760 
PMID: 22258607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7381):278-86. doi: 10.1038/nature10759.

Inflammasomes in health and disease.

Strowig T(1), Henao-Mejia J, Elinav E, Flavell R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Inflammasomes are a group of protein complexes built around several proteins,
including NLRP3, NLRC4, AIM2 and NLRP6. Recognition of a diverse range of
microbial, stress and damage signals by inflammasomes results in direct
activation of caspase-1, which subsequently induces secretion of potent
pro-inflammatory cytokines and a form of cell death called pyroptosis.
Inflammasome-mediated processes are important during microbial infections and
also in regulating both metabolic processes and mucosal immune responses. We
review the functions of the different inflammasome complexes and discuss how
aberrations in them are implicated in the pathogenesis of human diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10759 
PMID: 22258606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;482(7384):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10781.

Genetic contributions to stability and change in intelligence from childhood to
old age.

Deary IJ(1), Yang J, Davies G, Harris SE, Tenesa A, Liewald D, Luciano M, Lopez
LM, Gow AJ, Corley J, Redmond P, Fox HC, Rowe SJ, Haggarty P, McNeill G, Goddard 
ME, Porteous DJ, Whalley LJ, Starr JM, Visscher PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, 7 George Square, Edinburgh 
EH8 9JZ, UK. i.deary@ed.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 9;482(7384):165-6.

Understanding the determinants of healthy mental ageing is a priority for society
today. So far, we know that intelligence differences show high stability from
childhood to old age and there are estimates of the genetic contribution to
intelligence at different ages. However, attempts to discover whether genetic
causes contribute to differences in cognitive ageing have been relatively
uninformative. Here we provide an estimate of the genetic and environmental
contributions to stability and change in intelligence across most of the human
lifetime. We used genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data from
1,940 unrelated individuals whose intelligence was measured in childhood (age 11 
years) and again in old age (age 65, 70 or 79 years). We use a statistical method
that allows genetic (co)variance to be estimated from SNP data on unrelated
individuals. We estimate that causal genetic variants in linkage disequilibrium
with common SNPs account for 0.24 of the variation in cognitive ability change
from childhood to old age. Using bivariate analysis, we estimate a genetic
correlation between intelligence at age 11 years and in old age of 0.62. These
estimates, derived from rarely available data on lifetime cognitive measures,
warrant the search for genetic causes of cognitive stability and change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10781 
PMID: 22258510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;483(7389):295-301. doi: 10.1038/nature10799.

Genome-wide structure and organization of eukaryotic pre-initiation complexes.

Rhee HS(1), Pugh BF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Eukaryotic Gene Regulation, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2012 Jul 5;487(7405):128.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Mar 15;483(7389):286-7.

Transcription and regulation of genes originate from transcription pre-initiation
complexes (PICs). Their structural and positional organization across eukaryotic 
genomes is unknown. Here we applied lambda exonuclease to chromatin
immunoprecipitates (termed ChIP-exo) to examine the precise location of 6,045
PICs in Saccharomyces. PICs, including RNA polymerase II and protein complexes
TFIIA, TFIIB, TFIID (or TBP), TFIIE, TFIIF, TFIIH and TFIIK were positioned
within promoters and excluded from coding regions. Exonuclease patterns were in
agreement with crystallographic models of the PIC, and were sufficiently precise 
to identify TATA-like elements at so-called TATA-less promoters. These PICs and
their transcription start sites were positionally constrained at TFIID-engaged
downstream +1 nucleosomes. At TATA-box-containing promoters, which are depleted
of TFIID, a +1 nucleosome was positioned to be in competition with the PIC, which
may allow greater latitude in start-site selection. Our genomic localization of
messenger RNA and non-coding RNA PICs reveals that two PICs, in inverted
orientation, may occupy the flanking borders of nucleosome-free regions. Their
unambiguous detection may help distinguish bona fide genes from transcriptional
noise.

© 2012 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved

DOI: 10.1038/nature10799 
PMCID: PMC3306527
PMID: 22258509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;482(7383):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10754.

Neuron-type-specific signals for reward and punishment in the ventral tegmental
area.

Cohen JY(1), Haesler S, Vong L, Lowell BB, Uchida N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2012 Mar;13(3):150-1.

Dopamine has a central role in motivation and reward. Dopaminergic neurons in the
ventral tegmental area (VTA) signal the discrepancy between expected and actual
rewards (that is, reward prediction error), but how they compute such signals is 
unknown. We recorded the activity of VTA neurons while mice associated different 
odour cues with appetitive and aversive outcomes. We found three types of neuron 
based on responses to odours and outcomes: approximately half of the neurons
(type I, 52%) showed phasic excitation after reward-predicting odours and rewards
in a manner consistent with reward prediction error coding; the other half of
neurons showed persistent activity during the delay between odour and outcome
that was modulated positively (type II, 31%) or negatively (type III, 18%) by the
value of outcomes. Whereas the activity of type I neurons was sensitive to actual
outcomes (that is, when the reward was delivered as expected compared to when it 
was unexpectedly omitted), the activity of type II and type III neurons was
determined predominantly by reward-predicting odours. We 'tagged' dopaminergic
and GABAergic neurons with the light-sensitive protein channelrhodopsin-2 and
identified them based on their responses to optical stimulation while recording. 
All identified dopaminergic neurons were of type I and all GABAergic neurons were
of type II. These results show that VTA GABAergic neurons signal expected reward,
a key variable for dopaminergic neurons to calculate reward prediction error.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10754 
PMCID: PMC3271183
PMID: 22258508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;482(7383):53-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10802.

DNA breaks and chromosome pulverization from errors in mitosis.

Crasta K(1), Ganem NJ, Dagher R, Lantermann AB, Ivanova EV, Pan Y, Nezi L,
Protopopov A, Chowdhury D, Pellman D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 450 Brookline 
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Mar;12(3):152.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2012 Mar;13(3):150.

The involvement of whole-chromosome aneuploidy in tumorigenesis is the subject of
debate, in large part because of the lack of insight into underlying mechanisms. 
Here we identify a mechanism by which errors in mitotic chromosome segregation
generate DNA breaks via the formation of structures called micronuclei.
Whole-chromosome-containing micronuclei form when mitotic errors produce lagging 
chromosomes. We tracked the fate of newly generated micronuclei and found that
they undergo defective and asynchronous DNA replication, resulting in DNA damage 
and often extensive fragmentation of the chromosome in the micronucleus.
Micronuclei can persist in cells over several generations but the chromosome in
the micronucleus can also be distributed to daughter nuclei. Thus, chromosome
segregation errors potentially lead to mutations and chromosome rearrangements
that can integrate into the genome. Pulverization of chromosomes in micronuclei
may also be one explanation for 'chromothripsis' in cancer and developmental
disorders, where isolated chromosomes or chromosome arms undergo massive local
DNA breakage and rearrangement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10802 
PMCID: PMC3271137
PMID: 22258507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7382):492-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10720.

Pathway complexity in supramolecular polymerization.

Korevaar PA(1), George SJ, Markvoort AJ, Smulders MM, Hilbers PA, Schenning AP,
De Greef TF, Meijer EW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Complex Molecular Systems, Eindhoven University of Technology,
PO Box 513, 5600 MB, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.

Self-assembly provides an attractive route to functional organic materials, with 
properties and hence performance depending sensitively on the organization of the
molecular building blocks. Molecular organization is a direct consequence of the 
pathways involved in the supramolecular assembly process, which is more amenable 
to detailed study when using one-dimensional systems. In the case of protein
fibrils, formation and growth have been attributed to complex aggregation
pathways that go beyond traditional concepts of homogeneous and secondary
nucleation events. The self-assembly of synthetic supramolecular polymers has
also been studied and even modulated, but our quantitative understanding of the
processes involved remains limited. Here we report time-resolved observations of 
the formation of supramolecular polymers from π-conjugated oligomers. Our kinetic
experiments show the presence of a kinetically favoured metastable assembly that 
forms quickly but then transforms into the thermodynamically favoured form.
Quantitative insight into the kinetic experiments was obtained from kinetic model
calculations, which revealed two parallel and competing pathways leading to
assemblies with opposite helicity. These insights prompt us to use a chiral
tartaric acid as an auxiliary to change the thermodynamic preference of the
assembly process. We find that we can force aggregation completely down the
kinetically favoured pathway so that, on removal of the auxiliary, we obtain only
metastable assemblies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10720 
PMID: 22258506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Nature. 2012 Jan 18;481(7382):511-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10758.

Exercise-induced BCL2-regulated autophagy is required for muscle glucose
homeostasis.

He C(1), Bassik MC, Moresi V, Sun K, Wei Y, Zou Z, An Z, Loh J, Fisher J, Sun Q, 
Korsmeyer S, Packer M, May HI, Hill JA, Virgin HW, Gilpin C, Xiao G, Bassel-Duby 
R, Scherer PE, Levine B.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Autophagy Research, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2013 Nov 7:503(7474):146.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Mar;13(3):136.
    Cell Metab. 2012 Mar 7;15(3):273-4.

Exercise has beneficial effects on human health, including protection against
metabolic disorders such as diabetes. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying
these effects are incompletely understood. The lysosomal degradation pathway,
autophagy, is an intracellular recycling system that functions during basal
conditions in organelle and protein quality control. During stress, increased
levels of autophagy permit cells to adapt to changing nutritional and energy
demands through protein catabolism. Moreover, in animal models, autophagy
protects against diseases such as cancer, neurodegenerative disorders,
infections, inflammatory diseases, ageing and insulin resistance. Here we show
that acute exercise induces autophagy in skeletal and cardiac muscle of fed mice.
To investigate the role of exercise-mediated autophagy in vivo, we generated
mutant mice that show normal levels of basal autophagy but are deficient in
stimulus (exercise- or starvation)-induced autophagy. These mice (termed BCL2 AAA
mice) contain knock-in mutations in BCL2 phosphorylation sites (Thr69Ala,
Ser70Ala and Ser84Ala) that prevent stimulus-induced disruption of the
BCL2-beclin-1 complex and autophagy activation. BCL2 AAA mice show decreased
endurance and altered glucose metabolism during acute exercise, as well as
impaired chronic exercise-mediated protection against high-fat-diet-induced
glucose intolerance. Thus, exercise induces autophagy, BCL2 is a crucial
regulator of exercise- (and starvation)-induced autophagy in vivo, and autophagy 
induction may contribute to the beneficial metabolic effects of exercise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10758 
PMCID: PMC3518436
PMID: 22258505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nature. 2012 Jan 15;481(7382):516-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10734.

Multi-isotope imaging mass spectrometry quantifies stem cell division and
metabolism.

Steinhauser ML(1), Bailey AP, Senyo SE, Guillermier C, Perlstein TS, Gould AP,
Lee RT, Lechene CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):454.

Mass spectrometry with stable isotope labels has been seminal in discovering the 
dynamic state of living matter, but is limited to bulk tissues or cells. We
developed multi-isotope imaging mass spectrometry (MIMS) that allowed us to view 
and measure stable isotope incorporation with submicrometre resolution. Here we
apply MIMS to diverse organisms, including Drosophila, mice and humans. We test
the 'immortal strand hypothesis', which predicts that during asymmetric stem cell
division chromosomes containing older template DNA are segregated to the daughter
destined to remain a stem cell, thus insuring lifetime genetic stability. After
labelling mice with (15)N-thymidine from gestation until post-natal week 8, we
find no (15)N label retention by dividing small intestinal crypt cells after a
four-week chase. In adult mice administered (15)N-thymidine pulse-chase, we find 
that proliferating crypt cells dilute the (15)N label, consistent with random
strand segregation. We demonstrate the broad utility of MIMS with
proof-of-principle studies of lipid turnover in Drosophila and translation to the
human haematopoietic system. These studies show that MIMS provides
high-resolution quantification of stable isotope labels that cannot be obtained
using other techniques and that is broadly applicable to biological and medical
research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10734 
PMCID: PMC3267887
PMID: 22246326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nature. 2012 Jan 15;482(7385):414-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10744.

Galectin 8 targets damaged vesicles for autophagy to defend cells against
bacterial invasion.

Thurston TL(1), Wandel MP, von Muhlinen N, Foeglein A, Randow F.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Division of Protein and Nucleic Acid
Chemistry, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 16;482(7385):316-7.

Autophagy defends the mammalian cytosol against bacterial infection. Efficient
pathogen engulfment is mediated by cargo-selecting autophagy adaptors that rely
on unidentified pattern-recognition or danger receptors to label invading
pathogens as autophagy cargo, typically by polyubiquitin coating. Here we show in
human cells that galectin 8 (also known as LGALS8), a cytosolic lectin, is a
danger receptor that restricts Salmonella proliferation. Galectin 8 monitors
endosomal and lysosomal integrity and detects bacterial invasion by binding host 
glycans exposed on damaged Salmonella-containing vacuoles. By recruiting NDP52
(also known as CALCOCO2), galectin 8 activates antibacterial autophagy.
Galectin-8-dependent recruitment of NDP52 to Salmonella-containing vesicles is
transient and followed by ubiquitin-dependent NDP52 recruitment. Because galectin
8 also detects sterile damage to endosomes or lysosomes, as well as invasion by
Listeria or Shigella, we suggest that galectin 8 serves as a versatile receptor
for vesicle-damaging pathogens. Our results illustrate how cells deploy the
danger receptor galectin 8 to combat infection by monitoring endosomal and
lysosomal integrity on the basis of the specific lack of complex carbohydrates in
the cytosol.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10744 
PMCID: PMC3343631
PMID: 22246324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Nature. 2012 Jan 15;481(7382):520-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10745.

Multi-isotope imaging mass spectrometry reveals slow protein turnover in
hair-cell stereocilia.

Zhang DS(1), Piazza V, Perrin BJ, Rzadzinska AK, Poczatek JC, Wang M, Prosser HM,
Ervasti JM, Corey DP, Lechene CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):454.

Hair cells of the inner ear are not normally replaced during an animal's life,
and must continually renew components of their various organelles. Among these
are the stereocilia, each with a core of several hundred actin filaments that
arise from their apical surfaces and that bear the mechanotransduction apparatus 
at their tips. Actin turnover in stereocilia has previously been studied by
transfecting neonatal rat hair cells in culture with a β-actin-GFP fusion, and
evidence was found that actin is replaced, from the top down, in 2-3 days.
Overexpression of the actin-binding protein espin causes elongation of
stereocilia within 12-24 hours, also suggesting rapid regulation of stereocilia
lengths. Similarly, the mechanosensory 'tip links' are replaced in 5-10 hours
after cleavage in chicken and mammalian hair cells. In contrast, turnover in
chick stereocilia in vivo is much slower. It might be that only certain
components of stereocilia turn over quickly, that rapid turnover occurs only in
neonatal animals, only in culture, or only in response to a challenge like
breakage or actin overexpression. Here we quantify protein turnover by feeding
animals with a (15)N-labelled precursor amino acid and using multi-isotope
imaging mass spectrometry to measure appearance of new protein. Surprisingly, in 
adult frogs and mice and in neonatal mice, in vivo and in vitro, the stereocilia 
were remarkably stable, incorporating newly synthesized protein at <10% per day. 
Only stereocilia tips had rapid turnover and no treadmilling was observed. Other 
methods confirmed this: in hair cells expressing β-actin-GFP we bleached fiducial
lines across hair bundles, but they did not move in 6 days. When we stopped
expression of β- or γ-actin with tamoxifen-inducible recombination, neither actin
isoform left the stereocilia, except at the tips. Thus, rapid turnover in
stereocilia occurs only at the tips and not by a treadmilling process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10745 
PMCID: PMC3267870
PMID: 22246323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Nature. 2012 Jan 15;482(7383):103-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10791.

A novel sensor to map auxin response and distribution at high spatio-temporal
resolution.

Brunoud G(1), Wells DM, Oliva M, Larrieu A, Mirabet V, Burrow AH, Beeckman T,
Kepinski S, Traas J, Bennett MJ, Vernoux T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France.

Auxin is a key plant morphogenetic signal but tools to analyse dynamically its
distribution and signalling during development are still limited. Auxin
perception directly triggers the degradation of Aux/IAA repressor proteins. Here 
we describe a novel Aux/IAA-based auxin signalling sensor termed DII-VENUS that
was engineered in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The VENUS fast maturing
form of yellow fluorescent protein was fused in-frame to the Aux/IAA
auxin-interaction domain (termed domain II; DII) and expressed under a
constitutive promoter. We initially show that DII-VENUS abundance is dependent on
auxin, its TIR1/AFBs co-receptors and proteasome activities. Next, we demonstrate
that DII-VENUS provides a map of relative auxin distribution at cellular
resolution in different tissues. DII-VENUS is also rapidly degraded in response
to auxin and we used it to visualize dynamic changes in cellular auxin
distribution successfully during two developmental responses, the root
gravitropic response and lateral organ production at the shoot apex. Our results 
illustrate the value of developing response input sensors such as DII-VENUS to
provide high-resolution spatio-temporal information about hormone distribution
and response during plant growth and development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10791 
PMID: 22246322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7380):177-80. doi: 10.1038/nature10687.

Modelling the rheology of MgO under Earth's mantle pressure, temperature and
strain rates.

Cordier P(1), Amodeo J, Carrez P.

Author information: 
(1)Université Lille 1, Unité Matériaux et Transformations, UMR CNRS 8207, F-59650
Villeneuve d'Ascq, France. Patrick.Cordier@univ-lille1.fr

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 12;481(7380):153-4.

Plate tectonics, which shapes the surface of Earth, is the result of solid-state 
convection in Earth's mantle over billions of years. Simply driven by buoyancy
forces, mantle convection is complicated by the nature of the convecting
materials, which are not fluids but polycrystalline rocks. Crystalline materials 
can flow as the result of the motion of defects--point defects, dislocations,
grain boundaries and so on. Reproducing in the laboratory the extreme deformation
conditions of the mantle is extremely challenging. In particular, experimental
strain rates are at least six orders of magnitude larger than in nature. Here we 
show that the rheology of MgO at the pressure, temperature and strain rates of
the mantle is accessible by multiscale numerical modelling starting from first
principles and with no adjustable parameters. Our results demonstrate that
extremely low strain rates counteract the influence of pressure. In the mantle,
MgO deforms in the athermal regime and this leads to a very weak phase. It is
only in the lowermost lower mantle that the pressure effect could dominate and
that, under the influence of lattice friction, a viscosity of the order of
10(21)-10(22) pascal seconds can be defined for MgO.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10687 
PMID: 22237109 


872. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7380):167-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10684.

One or more bound planets per Milky Way star from microlensing observations.

Cassan A(1), Kubas D, Beaulieu JP, Dominik M, Horne K, Greenhill J, Wambsganss J,
Menzies J, Williams A, Jørgensen UG, Udalski A, Bennett DP, Albrow MD, Batista V,
Brillant S, Caldwell JA, Cole A, Coutures Ch, Cook KH, Dieters S, Prester DD,
Donatowicz J, Fouqué P, Hill K, Kains N, Kane S, Marquette JB, Martin R, Pollard 
KR, Sahu KC, Vinter C, Warren D, Watson B, Zub M, Sumi T, Szymański MK, Kubiak M,
Poleski R, Soszynski I, Ulaczyk K, Pietrzyński G, Wyrzykowski L.

Author information: 
(1)Probing Lensing Anomalies Network (PLANET) Collaboration, Institut
d'Astrophysique de Paris, Université Pierre & Marie Curie, UMR7095 UPMC-CNRS, 98 
bis boulevard Arago, 75014 Paris, France. cassan@iap.fr

Most known extrasolar planets (exoplanets) have been discovered using the radial 
velocity or transit methods. Both are biased towards planets that are relatively 
close to their parent stars, and studies find that around 17-30% (refs 4, 5) of
solar-like stars host a planet. Gravitational microlensing, on the other hand,
probes planets that are further away from their stars. Recently, a population of 
planets that are unbound or very far from their stars was discovered by
microlensing. These planets are at least as numerous as the stars in the Milky
Way. Here we report a statistical analysis of microlensing data (gathered in
2002-07) that reveals the fraction of bound planets 0.5-10 AU (Sun-Earth
distance) from their stars. We find that 17(+6)(-9)% of stars host Jupiter-mass
planets (0.3-10 M(J), where M(J) = 318 M(⊕) and M(⊕) is Earth's mass). Cool
Neptunes (10-30 M(⊕)) and super-Earths (5-10 M(⊕)) are even more common: their
respective abundances per star are 52(+22)(-29)% and 62(+35)(-37)%. We conclude
that stars are orbited by planets as a rule, rather than the exception.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10684 
PMID: 22237108 


873. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7380):164-6. doi: 10.1038/nature10692.

An absence of ex-companion stars in the type Ia supernova remnant SNR 0509-67.5.

Schaefer BE(1), Pagnotta A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana 70803, USA. schaefer@lsu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 12;481(7380):149-50.

A type Ia supernova is thought to begin with the explosion of a white dwarf star.
The explosion could be triggered by the merger of two white dwarfs (a
'double-degenerate' origin), or by mass transfer from a companion star (the
'single-degenerate' path). The identity of the progenitor is still controversial;
for example, a recent argument against the single-degenerate origin has been
widely rejected. One way to distinguish between the double- and single-degenerate
progenitors is to look at the centre of a known type Ia supernova remnant to see 
whether any former companion star is present. A likely ex-companion star for the 
progenitor of the supernova observed by Tycho Brahe has been identified, but that
claim is still controversial. Here we report that the central region of the
supernova remnant SNR 0509-67.5 (the site of a type Ia supernova 400 ± 50 years
ago, based on its light echo) in the Large Magellanic Cloud contains no
ex-companion star to a visual magnitude limit of 26.9 (an absolute magnitude of
M(V) = +8.4) within a region of radius 1.43 arcseconds. (This corresponds to the 
3σ maximum distance to which a companion could have been 'kicked' by the
explosion.) This lack of any ex-companion star to deep limits rules out all
published single-degenerate models for this supernova. The only remaining
possibility is that the progenitor of this particular type Ia supernova was a
double-degenerate system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10692 
PMID: 22237107 


874. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7380):157-63. doi: 10.1038/nature10725.

The genetic basis of early T-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.

Zhang J(1), Ding L, Holmfeldt L, Wu G, Heatley SL, Payne-Turner D, Easton J, Chen
X, Wang J, Rusch M, Lu C, Chen SC, Wei L, Collins-Underwood JR, Ma J, Roberts KG,
Pounds SB, Ulyanov A, Becksfort J, Gupta P, Huether R, Kriwacki RW, Parker M,
McGoldrick DJ, Zhao D, Alford D, Espy S, Bobba KC, Song G, Pei D, Cheng C,
Roberts S, Barbato MI, Campana D, Coustan-Smith E, Shurtleff SA, Raimondi SC,
Kleppe M, Cools J, Shimano KA, Hermiston ML, Doulatov S, Eppert K, Laurenti E,
Notta F, Dick JE, Basso G, Hunger SP, Loh ML, Devidas M, Wood B, Winter S,
Dunsmore KP, Fulton RS, Fulton LL, Hong X, Harris CC, Dooling DJ, Ochoa K,
Johnson KJ, Obenauer JC, Evans WE, Pui CH, Naeve CW, Ley TJ, Mardis ER, Wilson
RK, Downing JR, Mullighan CG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, St Jude Children's
Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Early T-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ETP ALL) is an aggressive
malignancy of unknown genetic basis. We performed whole-genome sequencing of 12
ETP ALL cases and assessed the frequency of the identified somatic mutations in
94 T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia cases. ETP ALL was characterized by
activating mutations in genes regulating cytokine receptor and RAS signalling
(67% of cases; NRAS, KRAS, FLT3, IL7R, JAK3, JAK1, SH2B3 and BRAF), inactivating 
lesions disrupting haematopoietic development (58%; GATA3, ETV6, RUNX1, IKZF1 and
EP300) and histone-modifying genes (48%; EZH2, EED, SUZ12, SETD2 and EP300). We
also identified new targets of recurrent mutation including DNM2, ECT2L and RELN.
The mutational spectrum is similar to myeloid tumours, and moreover, the global
transcriptional profile of ETP ALL was similar to that of normal and myeloid
leukaemia haematopoietic stem cells. These findings suggest that addition of
myeloid-directed therapies might improve the poor outcome of ETP ALL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10725 
PMCID: PMC3267575
PMID: 22237106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7382):506-10. doi: 10.1038/nature10738.

Clonal evolution in relapsed acute myeloid leukaemia revealed by whole-genome
sequencing.

Ding L(1), Ley TJ, Larson DE, Miller CA, Koboldt DC, Welch JS, Ritchey JK, Young 
MA, Lamprecht T, McLellan MD, McMichael JF, Wallis JW, Lu C, Shen D, Harris CC,
Dooling DJ, Fulton RS, Fulton LL, Chen K, Schmidt H, Kalicki-Veizer J, Magrini
VJ, Cook L, McGrath SD, Vickery TL, Wendl MC, Heath S, Watson MA, Link DC,
Tomasson MH, Shannon WD, Payton JE, Kulkarni S, Westervelt P, Walter MJ, Graubert
TA, Mardis ER, Wilson RK, DiPersio JF.

Author information: 
(1)The Genome Institute, Washington University, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Most patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) die from progressive disease
after relapse, which is associated with clonal evolution at the cytogenetic
level. To determine the mutational spectrum associated with relapse, we sequenced
the primary tumour and relapse genomes from eight AML patients, and validated
hundreds of somatic mutations using deep sequencing; this allowed us to define
clonality and clonal evolution patterns precisely at relapse. In addition to
discovering novel, recurrently mutated genes (for example, WAC, SMC3, DIS3, DDX41
and DAXX) in AML, we also found two major clonal evolution patterns during AML
relapse: (1) the founding clone in the primary tumour gained mutations and
evolved into the relapse clone, or (2) a subclone of the founding clone survived 
initial therapy, gained additional mutations and expanded at relapse. In all
cases, chemotherapy failed to eradicate the founding clone. The comparison of
relapse-specific versus primary tumour mutations in all eight cases revealed an
increase in transversions, probably due to DNA damage caused by cytotoxic
chemotherapy. These data demonstrate that AML relapse is associated with the
addition of new mutations and clonal evolution, which is shaped, in part, by the 
chemotherapy that the patients receive to establish and maintain remissions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10738 
PMCID: PMC3267864
PMID: 22237025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;482(7384):186-91. doi: 10.1038/nature10774.

Complete subunit architecture of the proteasome regulatory particle.

Lander GC(1), Estrin E, Matyskiela ME, Bashore C, Nogales E, Martin A.

Author information: 
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Feb 9;482(7384):170-1.

The proteasome is the major ATP-dependent protease in eukaryotic cells, but
limited structural information restricts a mechanistic understanding of its
activities. The proteasome regulatory particle, consisting of the lid and base
subcomplexes, recognizes and processes polyubiquitinated substrates. Here we used
electron microscopy and a new heterologous expression system for the lid to
delineate the complete subunit architecture of the regulatory particle from
yeast. Our studies reveal the spatial arrangement of ubiquitin receptors,
deubiquitinating enzymes and the protein unfolding machinery at subnanometre
resolution, outlining the substrate's path to degradation. Unexpectedly, the
ATPase subunits within the base unfoldase are arranged in a spiral staircase,
providing insight into potential mechanisms for substrate translocation through
the central pore. Large conformational rearrangements of the lid upon holoenzyme 
formation suggest allosteric regulation of deubiquitination. We provide a
structural basis for the ability of the proteasome to degrade a diverse set of
substrates and thus regulate vital cellular processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10774 
PMCID: PMC3285539
PMID: 22237024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7382):463-8. doi: 10.1038/nature10777.

A PGC1-α-dependent myokine that drives brown-fat-like development of white fat
and thermogenesis.

Boström P(1), Wu J, Jedrychowski MP, Korde A, Ye L, Lo JC, Rasbach KA, Boström
EA, Choi JH, Long JZ, Kajimura S, Zingaretti MC, Vind BF, Tu H, Cinti S, Højlund 
K, Gygi SP, Spiegelman BM.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2012 Mar 7;15(3):277-8.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2012 Apr;8(4):195.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2012 Mar;11(3):189.
    Nature. 2012 Aug 30;488(7413):E9-10; discussion E10-1.

Exercise benefits a variety of organ systems in mammals, and some of the
best-recognized effects of exercise on muscle are mediated by the transcriptional
co-activator PPAR-γ co-activator-1 α (PGC1-α). Here we show in mouse that PGC1-α 
expression in muscle stimulates an increase in expression of FNDC5, a membrane
protein that is cleaved and secreted as a newly identified hormone, irisin.
Irisin acts on white adipose cells in culture and in vivo to stimulate UCP1
expression and a broad program of brown-fat-like development. Irisin is induced
with exercise in mice and humans, and mildly increased irisin levels in the blood
cause an increase in energy expenditure in mice with no changes in movement or
food intake. This results in improvements in obesity and glucose homeostasis.
Irisin could be therapeutic for human metabolic disease and other disorders that 
are improved with exercise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10777 
PMCID: PMC3522098
PMID: 22237023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7381):329-34. doi: 10.1038/nature10733.

A novel retinoblastoma therapy from genomic and epigenetic analyses.

Zhang J(1), Benavente CA, McEvoy J, Flores-Otero J, Ding L, Chen X, Ulyanov A, Wu
G, Wilson M, Wang J, Brennan R, Rusch M, Manning AL, Ma J, Easton J, Shurtleff S,
Mullighan C, Pounds S, Mukatira S, Gupta P, Neale G, Zhao D, Lu C, Fulton RS,
Fulton LL, Hong X, Dooling DJ, Ochoa K, Naeve C, Dyson NJ, Mardis ER, Bahrami A, 
Ellison D, Wilson RK, Downing JR, Dyer MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, St Jude Children's
Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

Comment in
    Future Oncol. 2012 May;8(5):525-8.
    Nature. 2012 Jan 19;481(7381):269-70.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Feb;12(2):80.

Retinoblastoma is an aggressive childhood cancer of the developing retina that is
initiated by the biallelic loss of RB1. Tumours progress very quickly following
RB1 inactivation but the underlying mechanism is not known. Here we show that the
retinoblastoma genome is stable, but that multiple cancer pathways can be
epigenetically deregulated. To identify the mutations that cooperate with RB1
loss, we performed whole-genome sequencing of retinoblastomas. The overall
mutational rate was very low; RB1 was the only known cancer gene mutated. We then
evaluated the role of RB1 in genome stability and considered non-genetic
mechanisms of cancer pathway deregulation. For example, the proto-oncogene SYK is
upregulated in retinoblastoma and is required for tumour cell survival. Targeting
SYK with a small-molecule inhibitor induced retinoblastoma tumour cell death in
vitro and in vivo. Thus, retinoblastomas may develop quickly as a result of the
epigenetic deregulation of key cancer pathways as a direct or indirect result of 
RB1 loss.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10733 
PMCID: PMC3289956
PMID: 22237022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Nature. 2012 Jan 11;481(7382):475-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10768.

Transiting circumbinary planets Kepler-34 b and Kepler-35 b.

Welsh WF(1), Orosz JA, Carter JA, Fabrycky DC, Ford EB, Lissauer JJ, Prša A,
Quinn SN, Ragozzine D, Short DR, Torres G, Winn JN, Doyle LR, Barclay T, Batalha 
N, Bloemen S, Brugamyer E, Buchhave LA, Caldwell C, Caldwell DA, Christiansen JL,
Ciardi DR, Cochran WD, Endl M, Fortney JJ, Gautier TN 3rd, Gilliland RL, Haas MR,
Hall JR, Holman MJ, Howard AW, Howell SB, Isaacson H, Jenkins JM, Klaus TC,
Latham DW, Li J, Marcy GW, Mazeh T, Quintana EV, Robertson P, Shporer A, Steffen 
JH, Windmiller G, Koch DG, Borucki WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, San Diego State University, 5500 Campanile Drive, San
Diego, California 92182, USA. wfw@sciences.sdsu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 26;481(7382):448-9.

Most Sun-like stars in the Galaxy reside in gravitationally bound pairs of stars 
(binaries). Although long anticipated, the existence of a 'circumbinary planet'
orbiting such a pair of normal stars was not definitively established until the
discovery of the planet transiting (that is, passing in front of) Kepler-16.
Questions remained, however, about the prevalence of circumbinary planets and
their range of orbital and physical properties. Here we report two additional
transiting circumbinary planets: Kepler-34 (AB)b and Kepler-35 (AB)b, referred to
here as Kepler-34 b and Kepler-35 b, respectively. Each is a low-density
gas-giant planet on an orbit closely aligned with that of its parent stars.
Kepler-34 b orbits two Sun-like stars every 289 days, whereas Kepler-35 b orbits 
a pair of smaller stars (89% and 81% of the Sun's mass) every 131 days. The
planets experience large multi-periodic variations in incident stellar radiation 
arising from the orbital motion of the stars. The observed rate of circumbinary
planets in our sample implies that more than ∼1% of close binary stars have giant
planets in nearly coplanar orbits, yielding a Galactic population of at least
several million.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10768 
PMID: 22237021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Nature. 2012 Jan 9;481(7382):525-9. doi: 10.1038/nature10742.

Molecular recognition of a single sphingolipid species by a protein's
transmembrane domain.

Contreras FX(1), Ernst AM, Haberkant P, Björkholm P, Lindahl E, Gönen B, Tischer 
C, Elofsson A, von Heijne G, Thiele C, Pepperkok R, Wieland F, Brügger B.

Author information: 
(1)Heidelberg University Biochemistry Center, Im Neuenheimer Feld 328, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany.

Functioning and processing of membrane proteins critically depend on the way
their transmembrane segments are embedded in the membrane. Sphingolipids are
structural components of membranes and can also act as intracellular second
messengers. Not much is known of sphingolipids binding to transmembrane domains
(TMDs) of proteins within the hydrophobic bilayer, and how this could affect
protein function. Here we show a direct and highly specific interaction of
exclusively one sphingomyelin species, SM 18, with the TMD of the COPI machinery 
protein p24 (ref. 2). Strikingly, the interaction depends on both the headgroup
and the backbone of the sphingolipid, and on a signature sequence (VXXTLXXIY)
within the TMD. Molecular dynamics simulations show a close interaction of SM 18 
with the TMD. We suggest a role of SM 18 in regulating the equilibrium between an
inactive monomeric and an active oligomeric state of the p24 protein, which in
turn regulates COPI-dependent transport. Bioinformatic analyses predict that the 
signature sequence represents a conserved sphingolipid-binding cavity in a
variety of mammalian membrane proteins. Thus, in addition to a function as second
messengers, sphingolipids can act as cofactors to regulate the function of
transmembrane proteins. Our discovery of an unprecedented specificity of
interaction of a TMD with an individual sphingolipid species adds to our
understanding of why biological membranes are assembled from such a large variety
of different lipids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10742 
PMID: 22230960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Nature. 2012 Jan 9;481(7382):530-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10735.

Structure of the carboxy-terminal region of a KCNH channel.

Brelidze TI(1), Carlson AE, Sankaran B, Zagotta WN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Box 357290, Seattle, Washington 98195-7290, USA.

The KCNH family of ion channels, comprising ether-à-go-go (EAG), EAG-related gene
(ERG), and EAG-like (ELK) K(+)-channel subfamilies, is crucial for repolarization
of the cardiac action potential, regulation of neuronal excitability and
proliferation of tumour cells. The carboxy-terminal region of KCNH channels
contains a cyclic-nucleotide-binding homology domain (CNBHD) and C-linker that
couples the CNBHD to the pore. The C-linker/CNBHD is essential for proper
function and trafficking of ion channels in the KCNH family. However, despite the
importance of the C-linker/CNBHD for the function of KCNH channels, the
structural basis of ion-channel regulation by the C-linker/CNBHD is unknown. Here
we report the crystal structure of the C-linker/CNBHD of zebrafish ELK channels
at 2.2-Å resolution. Although the overall structure of the C-linker/CNBHD of ELK 
channels is similar to the cyclic-nucleotide-binding domain (CNBD) structure of
the related hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide-modulated (HCN)
channels, there are marked differences. Unlike the CNBD of HCN, the CNBHD of ELK 
displays a negatively charged electrostatic profile that explains the lack of
binding and regulation of KCNH channels by cyclic nucleotides. Instead of cyclic 
nucleotide, the binding pocket is occupied by a short β-strand. Mutations of the 
β-strand shift the voltage dependence of activation to more depolarized voltages,
implicating the β-strand as an intrinsic ligand for the CNBHD of ELK channels. In
both ELK and HCN channels the C-linker is the site of virtually all of the
intersubunit interactions in the C-terminal region. However, in the zebrafish ELK
structure there is a reorientation in the C-linker so that the subunits form
dimers instead of tetramers, as observed in HCN channels. These results provide a
structural framework for understanding the regulation of ion channels in the KCNH
family by the C-linker/CNBHD and may guide the design of specific drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10735 
PMCID: PMC3267858
PMID: 22230959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Nature. 2012 Jan 9;482(7383):111-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10731.

Cysteinyl leukotriene type I receptor desensitization sustains Ca2+-dependent
gene expression.

Ng SW(1), Bakowski D, Nelson C, Mehta R, Almeyda R, Bates G, Parekh AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, Parks
Road, Oxford OX1 3PT, UK.

Receptor desensitization is a universal mechanism to turn off a biological
response; in this process, the ability of a physiological trigger to activate a
cell is lost despite the continued presence of the stimulus. Receptor
desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors involves uncoupling of the
receptor from its G-protein or second-messenger pathway followed by receptor
internalization. G-protein-coupled cysteinyl leukotriene type I (CysLT1)
receptors regulate immune-cell function and CysLT1 receptors are an established
therapeutic target for allergies, including asthma. Desensitization of CysLT1
receptors arises predominantly from protein-kinase-C-dependent phosphorylation of
three serine residues in the receptor carboxy terminus. Physiological
concentrations of the receptor agonist leukotriene C(4) (LTC(4)) evoke repetitive
cytoplasmic Ca(2+) oscillations, reflecting regenerative Ca(2+) release from
stores, which is sustained by Ca(2+) entry through store-operated
calcium-release-activated calcium (CRAC) channels. CRAC channels are tightly
linked to expression of the transcription factor c-fos, a regulator of numerous
genes important to cell growth and development. Here we show that abolishing
leukotriene receptor desensitization suppresses agonist-driven gene expression in
a rat cell line. Mechanistically, stimulation of non-desensitizing receptors
evoked prolonged inositol-trisphosphate-mediated Ca(2+) release, which led to
accelerated Ca(2+)-dependent slow inactivation of CRAC channels and a subsequent 
loss of excitation-transcription coupling. Hence, rather than serving to turn off
a biological response, reversible desensitization of a Ca(2+) mobilizing receptor
acts as an 'on' switch, sustaining long-term signalling in the immune system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10731 
PMCID: PMC3272478
PMID: 22230957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Nature. 2012 Jan 9;481(7381):360-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10724.

Evolution of increased complexity in a molecular machine.

Finnigan GC(1), Hanson-Smith V, Stevens TH, Thornton JW.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97403,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 19;481(7381):270-1.

Many cellular processes are carried out by molecular 'machines'-assemblies of
multiple differentiated proteins that physically interact to execute biological
functions. Despite much speculation, strong evidence of the mechanisms by which
these assemblies evolved is lacking. Here we use ancestral gene resurrection and 
manipulative genetic experiments to determine how the complexity of an essential 
molecular machine--the hexameric transmembrane ring of the eukaryotic V-ATPase
proton pump--increased hundreds of millions of years ago. We show that the ring
of Fungi, which is composed of three paralogous proteins, evolved from a more
ancient two-paralogue complex because of a gene duplication that was followed by 
loss in each daughter copy of specific interfaces by which it interacts with
other ring proteins. These losses were complementary, so both copies became
obligate components with restricted spatial roles in the complex. Reintroducing a
single historical mutation from each paralogue lineage into the resurrected
ancestral proteins is sufficient to recapitulate their asymmetric degeneration
and trigger the requirement for the more elaborate three-component ring. Our
experiments show that increased complexity in an essential molecular machine
evolved because of simple, high-probability evolutionary processes, without the
apparent evolution of novel functions. They point to a plausible mechanism for
the evolution of complexity in other multi-paralogue protein complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10724 
PMCID: PMC3979732
PMID: 22230956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Nature. 2012 Jan 9;481(7382):469-74. doi: 10.1038/nature10737.

X-ray structures of LeuT in substrate-free outward-open and apo inward-open
states.

Krishnamurthy H(1), Gouaux E.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Neurotransmitter sodium symporters are integral membrane proteins that remove
chemical transmitters from the synapse and terminate neurotransmission mediated
by serotonin, dopamine, noradrenaline, glycine and GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid).
Crystal structures of the bacterial homologue, LeuT, in substrate-bound
outward-occluded and competitive inhibitor-bound outward-facing states have
advanced our mechanistic understanding of neurotransmitter sodium symporters but 
have left fundamental questions unanswered. Here we report crystal structures of 
LeuT mutants in complexes with conformation-specific antibody fragments in the
outward-open and inward-open states. In the absence of substrate but in the
presence of sodium the transporter is outward-open, illustrating how the binding 
of substrate closes the extracellular gate through local conformational changes: 
hinge-bending movements of the extracellular halves of transmembrane domains 1, 2
and 6, together with translation of extracellular loop 4. The inward-open
conformation, by contrast, involves large-scale conformational changes, including
a reorientation of transmembrane domains 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7, a marked hinge bending
of transmembrane domain 1a and occlusion of the extracellular vestibule by
extracellular loop 4. These changes close the extracellular gate, open an
intracellular vestibule, and largely disrupt the two sodium sites, thus providing
a mechanism by which ions and substrate are released to the cytoplasm. The new
structures establish a structural framework for the mechanism of neurotransmitter
sodium symporters and their modulation by therapeutic and illicit substances.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10737 
PMCID: PMC3306218
PMID: 22230955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Nature. 2012 Jan 9;481(7381):335-40. doi: 10.1038/nature10728.

Structure of HDAC3 bound to co-repressor and inositol tetraphosphate.

Watson PJ(1), Fairall L, Santos GM, Schwabe JW.

Author information: 
(1)Henry Wellcome Laboratories of Structural Biology, Department of Biochemistry,
University of Leicester, Leicester LE1 9HN, UK.

Histone deacetylase enzymes (HDACs) are emerging cancer drug targets. They
regulate gene expression by removing acetyl groups from lysine residues in
histone tails, resulting in chromatin condensation. The enzymatic activity of
most class I HDACs requires recruitment into multi-subunit co-repressor
complexes, which are in turn recruited to chromatin by repressive transcription
factors. Here we report the structure of a complex between an HDAC and a
co-repressor, namely, human HDAC3 with the deacetylase activation domain (DAD)
from the human SMRT co-repressor (also known as NCOR2). The structure reveals two
remarkable features. First, the SMRT-DAD undergoes a large structural
rearrangement on forming the complex. Second, there is an essential inositol
tetraphosphate molecule--D-myo-inositol-(1,4,5,6)-tetrakisphosphate
(Ins(1,4,5,6)P(4))--acting as an 'intermolecular glue' between the two proteins. 
Assembly of the complex is clearly dependent on the Ins(1,4,5,6)P(4), which may
act as a regulator--potentially explaining why inositol phosphates and their
kinases have been found to act as transcriptional regulators. This mechanism for 
the activation of HDAC3 appears to be conserved in class I HDACs from yeast to
humans, and opens the way to novel therapeutic opportunities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10728 
PMCID: PMC3272448
PMID: 22230954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Nature. 2012 Jan 5;481(7379):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature10688.

FBXO11 targets BCL6 for degradation and is inactivated in diffuse large B-cell
lymphomas.

Duan S(1), Cermak L, Pagan JK, Rossi M, Martinengo C, di Celle PF, Chapuy B,
Shipp M, Chiarle R, Pagano M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, NYU Cancer Institute, New York University School of
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

BCL6 is the product of a proto-oncogene implicated in the pathogenesis of human
B-cell lymphomas. By binding specific DNA sequences, BCL6 controls the
transcription of a variety of genes involved in B-cell development,
differentiation and activation. BCL6 is overexpressed in the majority of patients
with aggressive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common lymphoma
in adulthood, and transgenic mice constitutively expressing BCL6 in B cells
develop DLBCLs similar to the human disease. In many DLBCL patients, BCL6
overexpression is achieved through translocation (~40%) or hypermutation of its
promoter (~15%). However, many other DLBCLs overexpress BCL6 through an unknown
mechanism. Here we show that BCL6 is targeted for ubiquitylation and proteasomal 
degradation by a SKP1–CUL1–F-box protein (SCF) ubiquitin ligase complex that
contains the orphan F-box protein FBXO11 (refs 5, 6). The gene encoding FBXO11
was found to be deleted or mutated in multiple DLBCL cell lines, and this
inactivation of FBXO11 correlated with increased levels and stability of BCL6.
Similarly, FBXO11 was either deleted or mutated in primary DLBCLs. Notably,
tumour-derived FBXO11 mutants displayed an impaired ability to induce BCL6
degradation. Reconstitution of FBXO11 expression in FBXO11-deleted DLBCL cells
promoted BCL6 ubiquitylation and degradation, inhibited cell proliferation, and
induced cell death. FBXO11-deleted DLBCL cells generated tumours in
immunodeficient mice, and the tumorigenicity was suppressed by FBXO11
reconstitution. We reveal a molecular mechanism controlling BCL6 stability and
propose that mutations and deletions in FBXO11 contribute to lymphomagenesis
through BCL6 stabilization. The deletions/mutations found in DLBCLs are largely
monoallelic, indicating that FBXO11 is a haplo-insufficient tumour suppressor
gene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10688 
PMCID: PMC3344385
PMID: 22113614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;481(7379):66-70. doi: 10.1038/nature10705.

Changing Arctic Ocean freshwater pathways.

Morison J(1), Kwok R, Peralta-Ferriz C, Alkire M, Rigor I, Andersen R, Steele M.

Author information: 
(1)Polar Science Center, Applied Physics Laboratory, University of Washington,
1013 Northeast 40th Street, Seattle, Washington 98105, USA.
morison@apl.washington.edu

Freshening in the Canada basin of the Arctic Ocean began in the 1990s and
continued to at least the end of 2008. By then, the Arctic Ocean might have
gained four times as much fresh water as comprised the Great Salinity Anomaly of 
the 1970s, raising the spectre of slowing global ocean circulation. Freshening
has been attributed to increased sea ice melting and contributions from runoff,
but a leading explanation has been a strengthening of the Beaufort High--a
characteristic peak in sea level atmospheric pressure--which tends to accelerate 
an anticyclonic (clockwise) wind pattern causing convergence of fresh surface
water. Limited observations have made this explanation difficult to verify, and
observations of increasing freshwater content under a weakened Beaufort High
suggest that other factors must be affecting freshwater content. Here we use
observations to show that during a time of record reductions in ice extent from
2005 to 2008, the dominant freshwater content changes were an increase in the
Canada basin balanced by a decrease in the Eurasian basin. Observations are drawn
from satellite data (sea surface height and ocean-bottom pressure) and in situ
data. The freshwater changes were due to a cyclonic (anticlockwise) shift in the 
ocean pathway of Eurasian runoff forced by strengthening of the west-to-east
Northern Hemisphere atmospheric circulation characterized by an increased Arctic 
Oscillation index. Our results confirm that runoff is an important influence on
the Arctic Ocean and establish that the spatial and temporal manifestations of
the runoff pathways are modulated by the Arctic Oscillation, rather than the
strength of the wind-driven Beaufort Gyre circulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10705 
PMID: 22222749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;481(7379):62-5. doi: 10.1038/nature10695.

Demonstration of temporal cloaking.

Fridman M(1), Farsi A, Okawachi Y, Gaeta AL.

Author information: 
(1)School of Applied and Engineering Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 5;481(7379):35-6.

Recent research has uncovered a remarkable ability to manipulate and control
electromagnetic fields to produce effects such as perfect imaging and spatial
cloaking. To achieve spatial cloaking, the index of refraction is manipulated to 
flow light from a probe around an object in such a way that a 'hole' in space is 
created, and the object remains hidden. Alternatively, it may be desirable to
cloak the occurrence of an event over a finite time period, and the idea of
temporal cloaking has been proposed in which the dispersion of the material is
manipulated in time, producing a 'time hole' in the probe beam to hide the
occurrence of the event from the observer. This approach is based on accelerating
the front part of a probe light beam and slowing down its rear part to create a
well controlled temporal gap--inside which an event occurs--such that the probe
beam is not modified in any way by the event. The probe beam is then restored to 
its original form by the reverse manipulation of the dispersion. Here we present 
an experimental demonstration of temporal cloaking in an optical fibre-based
system by applying concepts from the space-time duality between diffraction and
dispersive broadening. We characterize the performance of our temporal cloak by
detecting the spectral modification of a probe beam due to an optical interaction
and show that the amplitude of the event (at the picosecond timescale) is reduced
by more than an order of magnitude when the cloak is turned on. These results are
a significant step towards the development of full spatio-temporal cloaking.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10695 
PMID: 22222748 


889. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;481(7379):58-61. doi: 10.1038/nature10666.

Polar methane accumulation and rainstorms on Titan from simulations of the
methane cycle.

Schneider T(1), Graves SD, Schaller EL, Brown ME.

Author information: 
(1)California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
tapio@caltech.edu

Titan has a methane cycle akin to Earth's water cycle. It has lakes in polar
regions, preferentially in the north; dry low latitudes with fluvial features and
occasional rainstorms; and tropospheric clouds mainly (so far) in southern middle
latitudes and polar regions. Previous models have explained the low-latitude
dryness as a result of atmospheric methane transport into middle and high
latitudes. Hitherto, no model has explained why lakes are found only in polar
regions and preferentially in the north; how low-latitude rainstorms arise; or
why clouds cluster in southern middle and high latitudes. Here we report
simulations with a three-dimensional atmospheric model coupled to a dynamic
surface reservoir of methane. We find that methane is cold-trapped and
accumulates in polar regions, preferentially in the north because the northern
summer, at aphelion, is longer and has greater net precipitation than the
southern summer. The net precipitation in polar regions is balanced in the annual
mean by slow along-surface methane transport towards mid-latitudes, and
subsequent evaporation. In low latitudes, rare but intense storms occur around
the equinoxes, producing enough precipitation to carve surface features.
Tropospheric clouds form primarily in middle and high latitudes of the summer
hemisphere, which until recently has been the southern hemisphere. We predict
that in the northern polar region, prominent clouds will form within about two
(Earth) years and lake levels will rise over the next fifteen years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10666 
PMID: 22222747 


890. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;481(7380):181-4. doi: 10.1038/nature10710.

Tail-assisted pitch control in lizards, robots and dinosaurs.

Libby T(1), Moore TY, Chang-Siu E, Li D, Cohen DJ, Jusufi A, Full RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Interdisciplinary Bio-Inspiration in Education and Research,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720-3140, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 12;481(7380):148-9.

In 1969, a palaeontologist proposed that theropod dinosaurs used their tails as
dynamic stabilizers during rapid or irregular movements, contributing to their
depiction as active and agile predators. Since then the inertia of swinging
appendages has been implicated in stabilizing human walking, aiding acrobatic
manoeuvres by primates and rodents, and enabling cats to balance on branches.
Recent studies on geckos suggest that active tail stabilization occurs during
climbing, righting and gliding. By contrast, studies on the effect of lizard tail
loss show evidence of a decrease, an increase or no change in performance.
Application of a control-theoretic framework could advance our general
understanding of inertial appendage use in locomotion. Here we report that
lizards control the swing of their tails in a measured manner to redirect angular
momentum from their bodies to their tails, stabilizing body attitude in the
sagittal plane. We video-recorded Red-Headed Agama lizards (Agama agama) leaping 
towards a vertical surface by first vaulting onto an obstacle with variable
traction to induce a range of perturbations in body angular momentum. To examine 
a known controlled tail response, we built a lizard-sized robot with an active
tail that used sensory feedback to stabilize pitch as it drove off a ramp. Our
dynamics model revealed that a body swinging its tail experienced less rotation
than a body with a rigid tail, a passively compliant tail or no tail. To compare 
a range of tails, we calculated tail effectiveness as the amount of tailless body
rotation a tail could stabilize. A model Velociraptor mongoliensis supported the 
initial tail stabilization hypothesis, showing as it did a greater tail
effectiveness than the Agama lizards. Leaping lizards show that inertial control 
of body attitude can advance our understanding of appendage evolution and provide
biological inspiration for the next generation of manoeuvrable search-and-rescue 
robots.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10710 
PMID: 22217942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;481(7381):348-51. doi: 10.1038/nature10769.

Reconfigurable self-assembly through chiral control of interfacial tension.

Gibaud T(1), Barry E, Zakhary MJ, Henglin M, Ward A, Yang Y, Berciu C, Oldenbourg
R, Hagan MF, Nicastro D, Meyer RB, Dogic Z.

Author information: 
(1)The Martin Fisher School of Physics, Brandeis University, 415 South Street,
Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 19;481(7381):268-9.

From determining the optical properties of simple molecular crystals to
establishing the preferred handedness in highly complex vertebrates, molecular
chirality profoundly influences the structural, mechanical and optical properties
of both synthetic and biological matter on macroscopic length scales. In soft
materials such as amphiphilic lipids and liquid crystals, the competition between
local chiral interactions and global constraints imposed by the geometry of the
self-assembled structures leads to frustration and the assembly of unique
materials. An example of particular interest is smectic liquid crystals, where
the two-dimensional layered geometry cannot support twist and chirality is
consequently expelled to the edges in a manner analogous to the expulsion of a
magnetic field from superconductors. Here we demonstrate a consequence of this
geometric frustration that leads to a new design principle for the assembly of
chiral molecules. Using a model system of colloidal membranes, we show that
molecular chirality can control the interfacial tension, an important property of
multi-component mixtures. This suggests an analogy between chiral twist, which is
expelled to the edges of two-dimensional membranes, and amphiphilic surfactants, 
which are expelled to oil-water interfaces. As with surfactants, chiral control
of interfacial tension drives the formation of many polymorphic assemblages such 
as twisted ribbons with linear and circular topologies, starfish membranes, and
double and triple helices. Tuning molecular chirality in situ allows dynamical
control of line tension, which powers polymorphic transitions between various
chiral structures. These findings outline a general strategy for the assembly of 
reconfigurable chiral materials that can easily be moved, stretched, attached to 
one another and transformed between multiple conformational states, thus allowing
precise assembly and nanosculpting of highly dynamical and designable materials
with complex topologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10769 
PMID: 22217941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;482(7383):89-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10766.

Vaccine protection against acquisition of neutralization-resistant SIV challenges
in rhesus monkeys.

Barouch DH(1), Liu J, Li H, Maxfield LF, Abbink P, Lynch DM, Iampietro MJ,
SanMiguel A, Seaman MS, Ferrari G, Forthal DN, Ourmanov I, Hirsch VM, Carville A,
Mansfield KG, Stablein D, Pau MG, Schuitemaker H, Sadoff JC, Billings EA, Rao M, 
Robb ML, Kim JH, Marovich MA, Goudsmit J, Michael NL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. dbarouch@bidmc.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Expert Rev Vaccines. 2012 May;11(5):539-42.

Preclinical studies of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) vaccine
candidates have typically shown post-infection virological control, but
protection against acquisition of infection has previously only been reported
against neutralization-sensitive virus challenges. Here we demonstrate vaccine
protection against acquisition of fully heterologous, neutralization-resistant
simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) challenges in rhesus monkeys.
Adenovirus/poxvirus and adenovirus/adenovirus-vector-based vaccines expressing
SIV(SME543) Gag, Pol and Env antigens resulted in an 80% or greater reduction in 
the per-exposure probability of infection against repetitive, intrarectal
SIV(MAC251) challenges in rhesus monkeys. Protection against acquisition of
infection showed distinct immunological correlates compared with post-infection
virological control and required the inclusion of Env in the vaccine regimen.
These data demonstrate the proof-of-concept that optimized HIV-1 vaccine
candidates can block acquisition of stringent, heterologous,
neutralization-resistant virus challenges in rhesus monkeys.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10766 
PMCID: PMC3271177
PMID: 22217938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Nature. 2012 Jan 4;481(7381):389-93. doi: 10.1038/nature10730.

Differential oestrogen receptor binding is associated with clinical outcome in
breast cancer.

Ross-Innes CS(1), Stark R, Teschendorff AE, Holmes KA, Ali HR, Dunning MJ, Brown 
GD, Gojis O, Ellis IO, Green AR, Ali S, Chin SF, Palmieri C, Caldas C, Carroll
JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK, Cambridge Research Institute, Li Ka Shing Centre, Robinson
Way, Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2012 Jan 19;481(7381):275-6.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2012 Feb;12(2):79.

Oestrogen receptor-α (ER) is the defining and driving transcription factor in the
majority of breast cancers and its target genes dictate cell growth and endocrine
response, yet genomic understanding of ER function has been restricted to model
systems. Here we map genome-wide ER-binding events, by chromatin
immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq), in primary
breast cancers from patients with different clinical outcomes and in distant
ER-positive metastases. We find that drug-resistant cancers still recruit ER to
the chromatin, but that ER binding is a dynamic process, with the acquisition of 
unique ER-binding regions in tumours from patients that are likely to relapse.
The acquired ER regulatory regions associated with poor clinical outcome observed
in primary tumours reveal gene signatures that predict clinical outcome in
ER-positive disease exclusively. We find that the differential ER-binding
programme observed in tumours from patients with poor outcome is not due to the
selection of a rare subpopulation of cells, but is due to the FOXA1-mediated
reprogramming of ER binding on a rapid timescale. The parallel redistribution of 
ER and FOXA1 binding events in drug-resistant cellular contexts is supported by
histological co-expression of ER and FOXA1 in metastatic samples. By establishing
transcription-factor mapping in primary tumour material, we show that there is
plasticity in ER-binding capacity, with distinct combinations of cis-regulatory
elements linked with the different clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature10730 
PMCID: PMC3272464
PMID: 22217937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

