
1. Nature. 2015 Mar 19;519(7543):362-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13983. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

CetZ tubulin-like proteins control archaeal cell shape.

Duggin IG(1), Aylett CH(2), Walsh JC(3), Michie KA(2), Wang Q(2), Turnbull L(4), 
Dawson EM(4), Harry EJ(4), Whitchurch CB(4), Amos LA(2), Löwe J(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick
Avenue, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK [2] The ithree institute, University of Technology 
Sydney, New South Wales 2007, Australia.
(2)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick
Avenue, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.
(3)1] The ithree institute, University of Technology Sydney, New South Wales
2007, Australia [2] School of Physics, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New
South Wales 2052, Australia.
(4)The ithree institute, University of Technology Sydney, New South Wales 2007,
Australia.

Tubulin is a major component of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton, controlling cell
shape, structure and dynamics, whereas its bacterial homologue FtsZ establishes
the cytokinetic ring that constricts during cell division. How such different
roles of tubulin and FtsZ evolved is unknown. Studying Archaea may provide clues 
as these organisms share characteristics with Eukarya and Bacteria. Here we
report the structure and function of proteins from a distinct family related to
tubulin and FtsZ, named CetZ, which co-exists with FtsZ in many archaea. CetZ
X-ray crystal structures showed the FtsZ/tubulin superfamily fold, and one
crystal form contained sheets of protofilaments, suggesting a structural role.
However, inactivation of CetZ proteins in Haloferax volcanii did not affect cell 
division. Instead, CetZ1 was required for differentiation of the irregular
plate-shaped cells into a rod-shaped cell type that was essential for normal
swimming motility. CetZ1 formed dynamic cytoskeletal structures in vivo, relating
to its capacity to remodel the cell envelope and direct rod formation. CetZ2 was 
also implicated in H. volcanii cell shape control. Our findings expand the known 
roles of the FtsZ/tubulin superfamily to include archaeal cell shape dynamics,
suggesting that a cytoskeletal role might predate eukaryotic cell evolution, and 
they support the premise that a major function of the microbial rod shape is to
facilitate swimming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13983 
PMCID: PMC4369195
PMID: 25533961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Nature. 2015 Mar 19;519(7543):374-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14020. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

NAD captureSeq indicates NAD as a bacterial cap for a subset of regulatory RNAs.

Cahová H(1), Winz ML(1), Höfer K(1), Nübel G(1), Jäschke A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology (IPMB), Heidelberg
University, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

A distinctive feature of prokaryotic gene expression is the absence of 5'-capped 
RNA. In eukaryotes, 5',5'-triphosphate-linked 7-methylguanosine protects
messenger RNA from degradation and modulates maturation, localization and
translation. Recently, the cofactor nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) was
reported as a covalent modification of bacterial RNA. Given the central role of
NAD in redox biochemistry, posttranslational protein modification and signalling,
its attachment to RNA indicates that there are unknown functions of RNA in these 
processes and undiscovered pathways in RNA metabolism and regulation. The unknown
identity of NAD-modified RNAs has so far precluded functional analyses. Here we
identify NAD-linked RNAs from bacteria by chemo-enzymatic capture and
next-generation sequencing (NAD captureSeq). Among those identified, specific
regulatory small RNAs (sRNAs) and sRNA-like 5'-terminal fragments of certain
mRNAs are particularly abundant. Analogous to a eukaryotic cap, 5'-NAD
modification is shown in vitro to stabilize RNA against 5'-processing by the
RNA-pyrophosphohydrolase RppH and against endonucleolytic cleavage by
ribonuclease (RNase) E. The nudix phosphohydrolase NudC decaps NAD-RNA and
thereby triggers RNase-E-mediated RNA decay, while being inactive against
triphosphate-RNA. In vivo, ∼13% of the abundant sRNA RNAI is NAD-capped in the
presence, and ∼26% in the absence, of functional NudC. To our knowledge, this is 
the first description of a cap-like structure and a decapping machinery in
bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14020 
PMID: 25533955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nature. 2015 Mar 19;519(7543):370-3. doi: 10.1038/nature14028. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

A human tRNA synthetase is a potent PARP1-activating effector target for
resveratrol.

Sajish M(1), Schimmel P(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, The Scripps Laboratories for tRNA
Synthetase Research, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.
(2)1] The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, The Scripps Laboratories for
tRNA Synthetase Research, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA [2] The Scripps Florida Research Institute, 130 Scripps Way, Jupiter, Florida
33458, USA.

Resveratrol is reported to extend lifespan and provide cardio-neuro-protective,
anti-diabetic, and anti-cancer effects by initiating a stress response that
induces survival genes. Because human tyrosyl transfer-RNA (tRNA) synthetase
(TyrRS) translocates to the nucleus under stress conditions, we considered the
possibility that the tyrosine-like phenolic ring of resveratrol might fit into
the active site pocket to effect a nuclear role. Here we present a 2.1 Å
co-crystal structure of resveratrol bound to the active site of TyrRS.
Resveratrol nullifies the catalytic activity and redirects TyrRS to a nuclear
function, stimulating NAD(+)-dependent auto-poly-ADP-ribosylation of
poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1). Downstream activation of key stress
signalling pathways are causally connected to TyrRS-PARP1-NAD(+) collaboration.
This collaboration is also demonstrated in the mouse, and is specifically blocked
in vivo by a resveratrol-displacing tyrosyl adenylate analogue. In contrast to
functionally diverse tRNA synthetase catalytic nulls created by alternative
splicing events that ablate active sites, here a non-spliced TyrRS catalytic null
reveals a new PARP1- and NAD(+)-dependent dimension to the physiological
mechanism of resveratrol.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14028 
PMCID: PMC4368482
PMID: 25533949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):223-8. doi: 10.1038/nature14135. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Large-scale discovery of novel genetic causes of developmental disorders.

Deciphering Developmental Disorders Study.

Collaborators: Fitzgerald TW, Gerety SS, Jones WD, van Kogelenberg M, King DA,
McRae J, Morley KI, Parthiban V, Al-Turki S, Ambridge K, Barrett DM, Bayzetinova 
T, Clayton S, Coomber EL, Gribble S, Jones P, Krishnappa N, Mason LE, Middleton
A, Miller R, Prigmore E, Rajan D, Sifrim A, Tivey AR, Ahmed M, Akawi N, Andrews
R, Anjum U, Archer H, Armstrong R, Balasubramanian M, Banerjee R, Baralle D,
Batstone P, Baty D, Bennett C, Berg J, Bernhard B, Bevan AP, Blair E, Blyth M,
Bohanna D, Bourdon L, Bourn D, Brady A, Bragin E, Brewer C, Brueton L, Brunstrom 
K, Bumpstead SJ, Bunyan DJ, Burn J, Burton J, Canham N, Castle B, Chandler K,
Clasper S, Clayton-Smith J, Cole T, Collins A, Collinson MN, Connell F, Cooper N,
Cox H, Cresswell L, Cross G, Crow Y, D'Alessandro M, Dabir T, Davidson R, Davies 
S, Dean J, Deshpande C, Devlin G, Dixit A, Dominiczak A, Donnelly C, Donnelly D, 
Douglas A, Duncan A, Eason J, Edkins S, Ellard S, Ellis P, Elmslie F, Evans K,
Everest S, Fendick T, Fisher R, Flinter F, Foulds N, Fryer A, Fu B, Gardiner C,
Gaunt L, Ghali N, Gibbons R, Gomes Pereira SL, Goodship J, Goudie D, Gray E,
Greene P, Greenhalgh L, Harrison L, Hawkins R, Hellens S, Henderson A, Hobson E, 
Holden S, Holder S, Hollingsworth G, Homfray T, Humphreys M, Hurst J, Ingram S,
Irving M, Jarvis J, Jenkins L, Johnson D, Jones D, Jones E, Josifova D, Joss S,
Kaemba B, Kazembe S, Kerr B, Kini U, Kinning E, Kirby G, Kirk C, Kivuva E, Kraus 
A, Kumar D, Lachlan K, Lam W, Lampe A, Langman C, Lees M, Lim D, Lowther G, Lynch
SA, Magee A, Maher E, Mansour S, Marks K, Martin K, Maye U, McCann E, McConnell
V, McEntagart M, McGowan R, McKay K, McKee S, McMullan DJ, McNerlan S, Mehta S,
Metcalfe K, Miles E, Mohammed S, Montgomery T, Moore D, Morgan S, Morris A,
Morton J, Mugalaasi H, Murday V, Nevitt L, Newbury-Ecob R, Norman A, O'Shea R,
Ogilvie C, Park S, Parker MJ, Patel C, Paterson J, Payne S, Phipps J, Pilz DT,
Porteous D, Pratt N, Prescott K, Price S, Pridham A, Procter A, Purnell H, Ragge 
N, Rankin J, Raymond L, Rice D, Robert L, Roberts E, Roberts G, Roberts J,
Roberts P, Ross A, Rosser E, Saggar A, Samant S, Sandford R, Sarkar A, Schweiger 
S, Scott C, Scott R, Selby A, Seller A, Sequeira C, Shannon N, Sharif S,
Shaw-Smith C, Shearing E, Shears D, Simonic I, Simpkin D, Singzon R, Skitt Z,
Smith A, Smith B, Smith K, Smithson S, Sneddon L, Splitt M, Squires M, Stewart F,
Stewart H, Suri M, Sutton V, Swaminathan GJ, Sweeney E, Tatton-Brown K, Taylor C,
Taylor R, Tein M, Temple IK, Thomson J, Tolmie J, Torokwa A, Treacy B, Turner C, 
Turnpenny P, Tysoe C, Vandersteen A, Vasudevan P, Vogt J, Wakeling E, Walker D,
Waters J, Weber A, Wellesley D, Whiteford M, Widaa S, Wilcox S, Williams D,
Williams N, Woods G, Wragg C, Wright M, Yang F, Yau M, Carter NP, Parker M, Firth
HV, FitzPatrick DR, Wright CF, Barrett JC, Hurles ME.

Despite three decades of successful, predominantly phenotype-driven discovery of 
the genetic causes of monogenic disorders, up to half of children with severe
developmental disorders of probable genetic origin remain without a genetic
diagnosis. Particularly challenging are those disorders rare enough to have
eluded recognition as a discrete clinical entity, those with highly variable
clinical manifestations, and those that are difficult to distinguish from other, 
very similar, disorders. Here we demonstrate the power of using an unbiased
genotype-driven approach to identify subsets of patients with similar disorders. 
By studying 1,133 children with severe, undiagnosed developmental disorders, and 
their parents, using a combination of exome sequencing and array-based detection 
of chromosomal rearrangements, we discovered 12 novel genes associated with
developmental disorders. These newly implicated genes increase by 10% (from 28%
to 31%) the proportion of children that could be diagnosed. Clustering of
missense mutations in six of these newly implicated genes suggests that normal
development is being perturbed by an activating or dominant-negative mechanism.
Our findings demonstrate the value of adopting a comprehensive strategy, both
genome-wide and nationwide, to elucidate the underlying causes of rare genetic
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14135 
PMCID: PMC5955210
PMID: 25533962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):247-50. doi: 10.1038/nature14035. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Crystal structure of the human OX2 orexin receptor bound to the insomnia drug
suvorexant.

Yin J(1), Mobarec JC(2), Kolb P(2), Rosenbaum DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biophysics, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Philipps-University Marburg, 35032
Marburg, Germany.

The orexin (also known as hypocretin) G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) respond
to orexin neuropeptides in the central nervous system to regulate sleep and other
behavioural functions in humans. Defects in orexin signalling are responsible for
the human diseases of narcolepsy and cataplexy; inhibition of orexin receptors is
an effective therapy for insomnia. The human OX2 receptor (OX2R) belongs to the β
branch of the rhodopsin family of GPCRs, and can bind to diverse compounds
including the native agonist peptides orexin-A and orexin-B and the potent
therapeutic inhibitor suvorexant. Here, using lipid-mediated crystallization and 
protein engineering with a novel fusion chimaera, we solved the structure of the 
human OX2R bound to suvorexant at 2.5 Å resolution. The structure reveals how
suvorexant adopts a π-stacked horseshoe-like conformation and binds to the
receptor deep in the orthosteric pocket, stabilizing a network of extracellular
salt bridges and blocking transmembrane helix motions necessary for activation.
Computational docking suggests how other classes of synthetic antagonists may
interact with the receptor at a similar position in an analogous π-stacked
fashion. Elucidation of the molecular architecture of the human OX2R expands our 
understanding of peptidergic GPCR ligand recognition and will aid further efforts
to modulate orexin signalling for therapeutic ends.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14035 
PMID: 25533960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14024. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Mechanosensory interactions drive collective behaviour in Drosophila.

Ramdya P(1), Lichocki P(2), Cruchet S(3), Frisch L(4), Tse W(4), Floreano D(5),
Benton R(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology and Medicine,
University of Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland [2] Laboratory of
Intelligent Systems, Institute of Microengineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale 
de Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland.
(2)1] Laboratory of Intelligent Systems, Institute of Microengineering, École
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland [2] Department 
of Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland.
(3)Center for Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology and Medicine, University
of Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland.
(4)Master's Program in Microengineering, Institute of Microengineering, École
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland.
(5)Laboratory of Intelligent Systems, Institute of Microengineering, École
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2015 Feb;16(2):66-7.

Collective behaviour enhances environmental sensing and decision-making in groups
of animals. Experimental and theoretical investigations of schooling fish,
flocking birds and human crowds have demonstrated that simple interactions
between individuals can explain emergent group dynamics. These findings indicate 
the existence of neural circuits that support distributed behaviours, but the
molecular and cellular identities of relevant sensory pathways are unknown. Here 
we show that Drosophila melanogaster exhibits collective responses to an aversive
odour: individual flies weakly avoid the stimulus, but groups show enhanced
escape reactions. Using high-resolution behavioural tracking, computational
simulations, genetic perturbations, neural silencing and optogenetic activation
we demonstrate that this collective odour avoidance arises from cascades of
appendage touch interactions between pairs of flies. Inter-fly touch sensing and 
collective behaviour require the activity of distal leg mechanosensory sensilla
neurons and the mechanosensory channel NOMPC. Remarkably, through these inter-fly
encounters, wild-type flies can elicit avoidance behaviour in mutant animals that
cannot sense the odour--a basic form of communication. Our data highlight the
unexpected importance of social context in the sensory responses of a solitary
species and open the door to a neural-circuit-level understanding of collective
behaviour in animal groups.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14024 
PMCID: PMC4359906
PMID: 25533959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):242-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14115. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Group 2 innate lymphoid cells promote beiging of white adipose tissue and limit
obesity.

Brestoff JR(1), Kim BS(2), Saenz SA(2), Stine RR(3), Monticelli LA(1), Sonnenberg
GF(4), Thome JJ(5), Farber DL(6), Lutfy K(7), Seale P(3), Artis D(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Jill Roberts Institute for Research in IBD, Joan and Sanford I. Weill
Department of Medicine, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Cornell 
Medical College, Cornell University, New York, New York 10021, USA [2] Department
of Microbiology and Institute for Immunology, Perelman School of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Institute for Immunology, Perelman School of
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(3)Institute for Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism, Department of Cell and
Developmental Biology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(4)Jill Roberts Institute for Research in IBD, Joan and Sanford I. Weill
Department of Medicine, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Cornell 
Medical College, Cornell University, New York, New York 10021, USA.
(5)1] Columbia Center for Translational Immunology, Columbia University Medical
Center, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(6)1] Columbia Center for Translational Immunology, Columbia University Medical
Center, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA [3]
Department of Surgery, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York
10032, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Western University
of Health Sciences, Pomona, California 91766, USA.

Comment in
    Immunity. 2015 Jan 20;42(1):15-7.
    Cell Metab. 2015 Feb 3;21(2):152-3.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2015 Mar;11(3):131.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2015 Feb;15(2):67.

Obesity is an increasingly prevalent disease regulated by genetic and
environmental factors. Emerging studies indicate that immune cells, including
monocytes, granulocytes and lymphocytes, regulate metabolic homeostasis and are
dysregulated in obesity. Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) can regulate
adaptive immunity and eosinophil and alternatively activated macrophage
responses, and were recently identified in murine white adipose tissue (WAT)
where they may act to limit the development of obesity. However, ILC2s have not
been identified in human adipose tissue, and the mechanisms by which ILC2s
regulate metabolic homeostasis remain unknown. Here we identify ILC2s in human
WAT and demonstrate that decreased ILC2 responses in WAT are a conserved
characteristic of obesity in humans and mice. Interleukin (IL)-33 was found to be
critical for the maintenance of ILC2s in WAT and in limiting adiposity in mice by
increasing caloric expenditure. This was associated with recruitment of
uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1)(+) beige adipocytes in WAT, a process known as
beiging or browning that regulates caloric expenditure. IL-33-induced beiging was
dependent on ILC2s, and IL-33 treatment or transfer of IL-33-elicited ILC2s was
sufficient to drive beiging independently of the adaptive immune system,
eosinophils or IL-4 receptor signalling. We found that ILC2s produce
methionine-enkephalin peptides that can act directly on adipocytes to upregulate 
Ucp1 expression in vitro and that promote beiging in vivo. Collectively, these
studies indicate that, in addition to responding to infection or tissue damage,
ILC2s can regulate adipose function and metabolic homeostasis in part via
production of enkephalin peptides that elicit beiging.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14115 
PMCID: PMC4447235
PMID: 25533952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):229-32. doi: 10.1038/nature14103. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Orientation columns in the mouse superior colliculus.

Feinberg EH(1), Meister M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Brain Science, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, 52 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)1] Center for Brain Science, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, 52 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2]
Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

More than twenty types of retinal ganglion cells conduct visual information from 
the eye to the rest of the brain. Each retinal ganglion cell type tessellates the
retina in a regular mosaic, so that every point in visual space is processed for 
visual primitives such as contrast and motion. This information flows to two
principal brain centres: the visual cortex and the superior colliculus. The
superior colliculus plays an evolutionarily conserved role in visual behaviours, 
but its functional architecture is poorly understood. Here we report on
population recordings of visual responses from neurons in the mouse superior
colliculus. Many neurons respond preferentially to lines of a certain orientation
or movement axis. We show that cells with similar orientation preferences form
large patches that span the vertical thickness of the retinorecipient layers.
This organization is strikingly different from the randomly interspersed
orientation preferences in the mouse's visual cortex; instead, it resembles the
orientation columns observed in the visual cortices of large mammals. Notably,
adjacent superior colliculus orientation columns have only limited receptive
field overlap. This is in contrast to the organization of visual cortex, where
each point in the visual field activates neurons with all preferred orientations.
Instead, the superior colliculus favours specific contour orientations within
∼30° regions of the visual field, a finding with implications for behavioural
responses mediated by this brain centre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14103 
PMID: 25517100  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):237-41. doi: 10.1038/nature14022. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Identification of a mast-cell-specific receptor crucial for pseudo-allergic drug 
reactions.

McNeil BD(1), Pundir P(2), Meeker S(3), Han L(1), Undem BJ(3), Kulka M(4), Dong
X(5).

Author information: 
(1)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Department of Neurosurgery, 
Center for Sensory Biology, Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E1, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Johns
Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(4)1] Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E1, Canada [2] National Institute for Nanotechnology,
National Research Council Canada, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2M9, Canada.
(5)1] The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Department of
Neurosurgery, Center for Sensory Biology, Johns Hopkins University, School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Immunol Cell Biol. 2015 Mar;93(3):221-3.

Mast cells are primary effectors in allergic reactions, and may have important
roles in disease by secreting histamine and various inflammatory and
immunomodulatory substances. Although they are classically activated by
immunoglobulin (Ig)E antibodies, a unique property of mast cells is their
antibody-independent responsiveness to a range of cationic substances,
collectively called basic secretagogues, including inflammatory peptides and
drugs associated with allergic-type reactions. The pathogenic roles of these
substances have prompted a decades-long search for their receptor(s). Here we
report that basic secretagogues activate mouse mast cells in vitro and in vivo
through a single receptor, Mrgprb2, the orthologue of the human G-protein-coupled
receptor MRGPRX2. Secretagogue-induced histamine release, inflammation and airway
contraction are abolished in Mrgprb2-null mutant mice. Furthermore, we show that 
most classes of US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved peptidergic drugs 
associated with allergic-type injection-site reactions also activate Mrgprb2 and 
MRGPRX2, and that injection-site inflammation is absent in mutant mice. Finally, 
we determine that Mrgprb2 and MRGPRX2 are targets of many small-molecule drugs
associated with systemic pseudo-allergic, or anaphylactoid, reactions; we show
that drug-induced symptoms of anaphylactoid responses are significantly reduced
in knockout mice; and we identify a common chemical motif in several of these
molecules that may help predict side effects of other compounds. These
discoveries introduce a mouse model to study mast cell activation by basic
secretagogues and identify MRGPRX2 as a potential therapeutic target to reduce a 
subset of drug-induced adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14022 
PMCID: PMC4359082
PMID: 25517090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Nature. 2015 Mar 12;519(7542):219-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13996. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Spatiotemporal transcriptomics reveals the evolutionary history of the endoderm
germ layer.

Hashimshony T(1), Feder M(1), Levin M(1), Hall BK(2), Yanai I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000,
Israel.
(2)Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 4JI,
Canada.

The concept of germ layers has been one of the foremost organizing principles in 
developmental biology, classification, systematics and evolution for 150 years
(refs 1 - 3). Of the three germ layers, the mesoderm is found in bilaterian
animals but is absent in species in the phyla Cnidaria and Ctenophora, which has 
been taken as evidence that the mesoderm was the final germ layer to evolve. The 
origin of the ectoderm and endoderm germ layers, however, remains unclear, with
models supporting the antecedence of each as well as a simultaneous origin. Here 
we determine the temporal and spatial components of gene expression spanning
embryonic development for all Caenorhabditis elegans genes and use it to
determine the evolutionary ages of the germ layers. The gene expression program
of the mesoderm is induced after those of the ectoderm and endoderm, thus making 
it the last germ layer both to evolve and to develop. Strikingly, the C. elegans 
endoderm and ectoderm expression programs do not co-induce; rather the endoderm
activates earlier, and this is also observed in the expression of endoderm
orthologues during the embryology of the frog Xenopus tropicalis, the sea anemone
Nematostella vectensis and the sponge Amphimedon queenslandica. Querying the
phylogenetic ages of specifically expressed genes reveals that the endoderm
comprises older genes. Taken together, we propose that the endoderm program dates
back to the origin of multicellularity, whereas the ectoderm originated as a
secondary germ layer freed from ancestral feeding functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13996 
PMCID: PMC4359913
PMID: 25487147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Nature. 2015 Mar 5;519(7541):106-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13999. Epub 2014 Dec 22.

Folding of an intrinsically disordered protein by phosphorylation as a regulatory
switch.

Bah A(1), Vernon RM(1), Siddiqui Z(2), Krzeminski M(1), Muhandiram R(3), Zhao
C(2), Sonenberg N(4), Kay LE(5), Forman-Kay JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Molecular Structure and Function Program, Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 0A4, Canada [2] Department of Biochemistry, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(2)Molecular Structure and Function Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 0A4, Canada.
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S
1A8, Canada [2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Goodman Cancer Research Centre, McGill
University, Montréal, Quebec H3G 1Y6, Canada.
(5)1] Molecular Structure and Function Program, Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 0A4, Canada [2] Department of Biochemistry, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [3] Department of Molecular Genetics,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [4] Department of
Chemistry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3H6, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2015 Feb;16(2):66.

Intrinsically disordered proteins play important roles in cell signalling,
transcription, translation and cell cycle regulation. Although they lack stable
tertiary structure, many intrinsically disordered proteins undergo
disorder-to-order transitions upon binding to partners. Similarly, several folded
proteins use regulated order-to-disorder transitions to mediate biological
function. In principle, the function of intrinsically disordered proteins may be 
controlled by post-translational modifications that lead to structural changes
such as folding, although this has not been observed. Here we show that multisite
phosphorylation induces folding of the intrinsically disordered 4E-BP2, the major
neural isoform of the family of three mammalian proteins that bind eIF4E and
suppress cap-dependent translation initiation. In its non-phosphorylated state,
4E-BP2 interacts tightly with eIF4E using both a canonical YXXXXLΦ motif
(starting at Y54) that undergoes a disorder-to-helix transition upon binding and 
a dynamic secondary binding site. We demonstrate that phosphorylation at T37 and 
T46 induces folding of residues P18-R62 of 4E-BP2 into a four-stranded β-domain
that sequesters the helical YXXXXLΦ motif into a partly buried β-strand, blocking
its accessibility to eIF4E. The folded state of pT37pT46 4E-BP2 is weakly stable,
decreasing affinity by 100-fold and leading to an order-to-disorder transition
upon binding to eIF4E, whereas fully phosphorylated 4E-BP2 is more stable,
decreasing affinity by a factor of approximately 4,000. These results highlight
stabilization of a phosphorylation-induced fold as the essential mechanism for
phospho-regulation of the 4E-BP:eIF4E interaction and exemplify a new mode of
biological regulation mediated by intrinsically disordered proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13999 
PMID: 25533957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Nature. 2015 Mar 5;519(7541):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature14021. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Dauer-independent insulin/IGF-1-signalling implicates collagen remodelling in
longevity.

Ewald CY(1), Landis JN(2), Porter Abate J(1), Murphy CT(2), Blackwell TK(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Joslin Diabetes Center, One Joslin Place, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA 
[2] Harvard Stem Cell Institute, 7 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA [3] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis
Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative
Genomics, Princeton University, 148 Carl Icahn Laboratory, Washington Road,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Interventions that delay ageing mobilize mechanisms that protect and repair
cellular components, but it is unknown how these interventions might slow the
functional decline of extracellular matrices, which are also damaged during
ageing. Reduced insulin/IGF-1 signalling (rIIS) extends lifespan across the
evolutionary spectrum, and in juvenile Caenorhabditis elegans also allows the
transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO to induce development into dauer, a diapause
that withstands harsh conditions. It has been suggested that rIIS delays C.
elegans ageing through activation of dauer-related processes during adulthood,
but some rIIS conditions confer robust lifespan extension unaccompanied by any
dauer-like traits. Here we show that rIIS can promote C. elegans longevity
through a program that is genetically distinct from the dauer pathway, and
requires the Nrf (NF-E2-related factor) orthologue SKN-1 acting in parallel to
DAF-16. SKN-1 is inhibited by IIS and has been broadly implicated in longevity,
but is rendered dispensable for rIIS lifespan extension by even mild activity of 
dauer-related processes. When IIS is decreased under conditions that do not
induce dauer traits, SKN-1 most prominently increases expression of collagens and
other extracellular matrix genes. Diverse genetic, nutritional, and
pharmacological pro-longevity interventions delay an age-related decline in
collagen expression. These collagens mediate adulthood extracellular matrix
remodelling, and are needed for ageing to be delayed by interventions that do not
involve dauer traits. By genetically delineating a dauer-independent rIIS ageing 
pathway, our results show that IIS controls a broad set of protective mechanisms 
during C. elegans adulthood, and may facilitate elucidation of processes of
general importance for longevity. The importance of collagen production in
diverse anti-ageing interventions implies that extracellular matrix remodelling
is a generally essential signature of longevity assurance, and that agents
promoting extracellular matrix youthfulness may have systemic benefit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14021 
PMCID: PMC4352135
PMID: 25517099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Nature. 2015 Mar 5;519(7541):114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14033. Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Structure of the F-actin-tropomyosin complex.

von der Ecken J(1), Müller M(2), Lehman W(3), Manstein DJ(2), Penczek PA(4),
Raunser S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany.
(2)Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Hannover Medical School, 30625 Hannover, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas,
Houston Medical School, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Filamentous actin (F-actin) is the major protein of muscle thin filaments, and
actin microfilaments are the main component of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton.
Mutations in different actin isoforms lead to early-onset autosomal dominant
non-syndromic hearing loss, familial thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections,
and multiple variations of myopathies. In striated muscle fibres, the binding of 
myosin motors to actin filaments is mainly regulated by tropomyosin and troponin.
Tropomyosin also binds to F-actin in smooth muscle and in non-muscle cells and
stabilizes and regulates the filaments there in the absence of troponin. Although
crystal structures for monomeric actin (G-actin) are available, a high-resolution
structure of F-actin is still missing, hampering our understanding of how
disease-causing mutations affect the function of thin muscle filaments and
microfilaments. Here we report the three-dimensional structure of F-actin at a
resolution of 3.7 Å in complex with tropomyosin at a resolution of 6.5 Å,
determined by electron cryomicroscopy. The structure reveals that the D-loop is
ordered and acts as a central region for hydrophobic and electrostatic
interactions that stabilize the F-actin filament. We clearly identify map density
corresponding to ADP and Mg(2+) and explain the possible effect of prominent
disease-causing mutants. A comparison of F-actin with G-actin reveals the
conformational changes during filament formation and identifies the D-loop as
their key mediator. We also confirm that negatively charged tropomyosin interacts
with a positively charged groove on F-actin. Comparison of the position of
tropomyosin in F-actin-tropomyosin with its position in our previously determined
F-actin-tropomyosin-myosin structure reveals a myosin-induced transition of
tropomyosin. Our results allow us to understand the role of individual mutations 
in the genesis of actin- and tropomyosin-related diseases and will serve as a
strong foundation for the targeted development of drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14033 
PMCID: PMC4477711
PMID: 25470062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Nature. 2015 Feb 26;518(7540):556-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13994. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Enhancer-core-promoter specificity separates developmental and housekeeping gene 
regulation.

Zabidi MA(1), Arnold CD(1), Schernhuber K(1), Pagani M(1), Rath M(1), Frank O(1),
Stark A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology IMP, Vienna Biocenter VBC, Dr
Bohr-Gasse 7, 1030 Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2015 Jan 26;32(2):135-7.
    Curr Biol. 2015 Mar 30;25(7):R290-3.

Gene transcription in animals involves the assembly of RNA polymerase II at core 
promoters and its cell-type-specific activation by enhancers that can be located 
more distally. However, how ubiquitous expression of housekeeping genes is
achieved has been less clear. In particular, it is unknown whether ubiquitously
active enhancers exist and how developmental and housekeeping gene regulation is 
separated. An attractive hypothesis is that different core promoters might
exhibit an intrinsic specificity to certain enhancers. This is conceivable, as
various core promoter sequence elements are differentially distributed between
genes of different functions, including elements that are predominantly found at 
either developmentally regulated or at housekeeping genes. Here we show that
thousands of enhancers in Drosophila melanogaster S2 and ovarian somatic cells
(OSCs) exhibit a marked specificity to one of two core promoters--one derived
from a ubiquitously expressed ribosomal protein gene and another from a
developmentally regulated transcription factor--and confirm the existence of
these two classes for five additional core promoters from genes with diverse
functions. Housekeeping enhancers are active across the two cell types, while
developmental enhancers exhibit strong cell-type specificity. Both enhancer
classes differ in their genomic distribution, the functions of neighbouring
genes, and the core promoter elements of these neighbouring genes. In addition,
we identify two transcription factors--Dref and Trl--that bind and activate
housekeeping versus developmental enhancers, respectively. Our results provide
evidence for a sequence-encoded enhancer-core-promoter specificity that separates
developmental and housekeeping gene regulatory programs for thousands of
enhancers and their target genes across the entire genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13994 
PMID: 25517091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Nature. 2015 Feb 26;518(7540):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14000. Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Evolution of the new vertebrate head by co-option of an ancient chordate skeletal
tissue.

Jandzik D(1), Garnett AT(2), Square TA(2), Cattell MV(2), Yu JK(3), Medeiros
DM(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [2] Department of Zoology, Comenius University,
Bratislava 84215, Slovakia.
(2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(3)Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529,
Taiwan.

A defining feature of vertebrates (craniates) is a pronounced head that is
supported and protected by a robust cellular endoskeleton. In the first
vertebrates, this skeleton probably consisted of collagenous cellular cartilage, 
which forms the embryonic skeleton of all vertebrates and the adult skeleton of
modern jawless and cartilaginous fish. In the head, most cellular cartilage is
derived from a migratory cell population called the neural crest, which arises
from the edges of the central nervous system. Because collagenous cellular
cartilage and neural crest cells have not been described in invertebrates, the
appearance of cellular cartilage derived from neural crest cells is considered a 
turning point in vertebrate evolution. Here we show that a tissue with many of
the defining features of vertebrate cellular cartilage transiently forms in the
larvae of the invertebrate chordate Branchiostoma floridae (Florida amphioxus).
We also present evidence that during evolution, a key regulator of vertebrate
cartilage development, SoxE, gained new cis-regulatory sequences that
subsequently directed its novel expression in neural crest cells. Together, these
results suggest that the origin of the vertebrate head skeleton did not depend on
the evolution of a new skeletal tissue, as is commonly thought, but on the spread
of this tissue throughout the head. We further propose that the evolution of
cis-regulatory elements near an ancient regulator of cartilage differentiation
was a major factor in the evolution of the vertebrate head skeleton.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14000 
PMID: 25487155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Nature. 2015 Feb 26;518(7540):552-555. doi: 10.1038/nature13968. Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Role of TP53 mutations in the origin and evolution of therapy-related acute
myeloid leukaemia.

Wong TN(#)(1), Ramsingh G(#)(2), Young AL(#)(3), Miller CA(4), Touma W(1), Welch 
JS(1)(5), Lamprecht TL(1), Shen D(6), Hundal J(4), Fulton RS(4), Heath S(1), Baty
JD(7), Klco JM(8), Ding L(1)(5), Mardis ER(4)(5)(9), Westervelt P(1)(5), DiPersio
JF(1)(5), Walter MJ(1)(5), Graubert TA(1)(5), Ley TJ(1)(5), Druley T(3), Link
DC(1)(5), Wilson RK(4)(5)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University, St.
Louis, MO.
(2)Department of Medicine, Jane Anne Nohl Division of Hematology, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Washington
University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO.
(4)The Genome Institute, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO.
(5)Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University, St. Louis, MO.
(6)Astra Zeneca, Gaithersburg, MD.
(7)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University, St. Louis, MO.
(8)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University, St Louis, MO.
(9)Department of Genetics, Washington University, St. Louis, MO.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2015 Feb;15(2):68.

Therapy-related acute myeloid leukaemia (t-AML) and therapy-related
myelodysplastic syndrome (t-MDS) are well-recognized complications of cytotoxic
chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. There are several features that distinguish
t-AML from de novo AML, including a higher incidence of TP53 mutations,
abnormalities of chromosomes 5 or 7, complex cytogenetics and a reduced response 
to chemotherapy. However, it is not clear how prior exposure to cytotoxic therapy
influences leukaemogenesis. In particular, the mechanism by which TP53 mutations 
are selectively enriched in t-AML/t-MDS is unknown. Here, by sequencing the
genomes of 22 patients with t-AML, we show that the total number of somatic
single-nucleotide variants and the percentage of chemotherapy-related
transversions are similar in t-AML and de novo AML, indicating that previous
chemotherapy does not induce genome-wide DNA damage. We identified four cases of 
t-AML/t-MDS in which the exact TP53 mutation found at diagnosis was also present 
at low frequencies (0.003-0.7%) in mobilized blood leukocytes or bone marrow 3-6 
years before the development of t-AML/t-MDS, including two cases in which the
relevant TP53 mutation was detected before any chemotherapy. Moreover, functional
TP53 mutations were identified in small populations of peripheral blood cells of 
healthy chemotherapy-naive elderly individuals. Finally, in mouse bone marrow
chimaeras containing both wild-type and Tp53(+/-) haematopoietic stem/progenitor 
cells (HSPCs), the Tp53(+/-) HSPCs preferentially expanded after exposure to
chemotherapy. These data suggest that cytotoxic therapy does not directly induce 
TP53 mutations. Rather, they support a model in which rare HSPCs carrying
age-related TP53 mutations are resistant to chemotherapy and expand
preferentially after treatment. The early acquisition of TP53 mutations in the
founding HSPC clone probably contributes to the frequent cytogenetic
abnormalities and poor responses to chemotherapy that are typical of patients
with t-AML/t-MDS.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13968 
PMCID: PMC4403236
PMID: 25487151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Nature. 2015 Feb 26;518(7540):538-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13998. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Experimentally induced innovations lead to persistent culture via conformity in
wild birds.

Aplin LM(1), Farine DR(2), Morand-Ferron J(3), Cockburn A(4), Thornton A(5),
Sheldon BC(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PS, UK [2] Department of Evolution, Ecology and Genetics, Research School of
Biology, Australian National University, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory
2600, Australia.
(2)1] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PS, UK [2] Department of Anthropology, University of California, Davis,
California 95616, USA [3] Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Ancon 9100,
Panama.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa K1N 9B2, Canada.
(4)Department of Evolution, Ecology and Genetics, Research School of Biology,
Australian National University, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 2600,
Australia.
(5)Department of Biosciences, Centre for Ecology and Conservation, University of 
Exeter, Penryn Campus, Penryn TR10 9EZ, UK.
(6)1] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PS, UK [2] Department of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University, 752 36
Uppsala, Sweden.

In human societies, cultural norms arise when behaviours are transmitted through 
social networks via high-fidelity social learning. However, a paucity of
experimental studies has meant that there is no comparable understanding of the
process by which socially transmitted behaviours might spread and persist in
animal populations. Here we show experimental evidence of the establishment of
foraging traditions in a wild bird population. We introduced alternative novel
foraging techniques into replicated wild sub-populations of great tits (Parus
major) and used automated tracking to map the diffusion, establishment and
long-term persistence of the seeded innovations. Furthermore, we used social
network analysis to examine the social factors that influenced diffusion
dynamics. From only two trained birds in each sub-population, the information
spread rapidly through social network ties, to reach an average of 75% of
individuals, with a total of 414 knowledgeable individuals performing 57,909
solutions over all replicates. The sub-populations were heavily biased towards
using the technique that was originally introduced, resulting in established
local traditions that were stable over two generations, despite a high population
turnover. Finally, we demonstrate a strong effect of social conformity, with
individuals disproportionately adopting the most frequent local variant when
first acquiring an innovation, and continuing to favour social information over
personal information. Cultural conformity is thought to be a key factor in the
evolution of complex culture in humans. In providing the first experimental
demonstration of conformity in a wild non-primate, and of cultural norms in
foraging techniques in any wild animal, our results suggest a much broader
taxonomic occurrence of such an apparently complex cultural behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13998 
PMCID: PMC4344839
PMID: 25470065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Nature. 2015 Feb 26;518(7540):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature13989. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Tissue-resident macrophages originate from yolk-sac-derived erythro-myeloid
progenitors.

Gomez Perdiguero E(1), Klapproth K(2), Schulz C(1), Busch K(2), Azzoni E(3),
Crozet L(1), Garner H(1), Trouillet C(1), de Bruijn MF(3), Geissmann F(1),
Rodewald HR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular and Cellular Biology of Inflammation (CMCBI), King's
College London, London SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Division of Cellular Immunology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), D-69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)MRC Molecular Haematology Unit, Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine,
John Radcliffe Hospital University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DS, UK.

Most haematopoietic cells renew from adult haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs),
however, macrophages in adult tissues can self-maintain independently of HSCs.
Progenitors with macrophage potential in vitro have been described in the yolk
sac before emergence of HSCs, and fetal macrophages can develop independently of 
Myb, a transcription factor required for HSC, and can persist in adult tissues.
Nevertheless, the origin of adult macrophages and the qualitative and
quantitative contributions of HSC and putative non-HSC-derived progenitors are
still unclear. Here we show in mice that the vast majority of adult
tissue-resident macrophages in liver (Kupffer cells), brain (microglia),
epidermis (Langerhans cells) and lung (alveolar macrophages) originate from a
Tie2(+) (also known as Tek) cellular pathway generating Csf1r(+) erythro-myeloid 
progenitors (EMPs) distinct from HSCs. EMPs develop in the yolk sac at embryonic 
day (E) 8.5, migrate and colonize the nascent fetal liver before E10.5, and give 
rise to fetal erythrocytes, macrophages, granulocytes and monocytes until at
least E16.5. Subsequently, HSC-derived cells replace erythrocytes, granulocytes
and monocytes. Kupffer cells, microglia and Langerhans cells are only marginally 
replaced in one-year-old mice, whereas alveolar macrophages may be progressively 
replaced in ageing mice. Our fate-mapping experiments identify, in the fetal
liver, a sequence of yolk sac EMP-derived and HSC-derived haematopoiesis, and
identify yolk sac EMPs as a common origin for tissue macrophages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13989 
PMCID: PMC5997177
PMID: 25470051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):355-359. doi: 10.1038/nature13990. Epub 2014 Dec
24.

Dissecting neural differentiation regulatory networks through epigenetic
footprinting.

Ziller MJ(#)(1)(2)(3), Edri R(#)(4), Yaffe Y(4), Donaghey J(1)(2)(3), Pop
R(1)(2)(3), Mallard W(1)(3), Issner R(1), Gifford CA(1)(2)(3), Goren A(1)(5)(6), 
Xing J(1), Gu H(1), Cachiarelli D(1), Tsankov A(1)(2)(3), Epstein C(1), Rinn
JR(1)(2)(3), Mikkelsen TS(1), Kohlbacher O(7), Gnirke A(1), Bernstein
BE(1)(5)(6), Elkabetz Y(#)(4), Meissner A(#)(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(3)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(4)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel 
Aviv University, 6997801, Israel.
(5)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(6)Center for Systems Biology and Center for Cancer Research, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(7)Applied Bioinformatics, Center for Bioinformatics and Quantitative Biology
Center, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Models derived from human pluripotent stem cells that accurately recapitulate
neural development in vitro and allow for the generation of specific neuronal
subtypes are of major interest to the stem cell and biomedical community. Notch
signalling, particularly through the Notch effector HES5, is a major pathway
critical for the onset and maintenance of neural progenitor cells in the
embryonic and adult nervous system. Here we report the transcriptional and
epigenomic analysis of six consecutive neural progenitor cell stages derived from
a HES5::eGFP reporter human embryonic stem cell line. Using this system, we aimed
to model cell-fate decisions including specification, expansion and patterning
during the ontogeny of cortical neural stem and progenitor cells. In order to
dissect regulatory mechanisms that orchestrate the stage-specific differentiation
process, we developed a computational framework to infer key regulators of each
cell-state transition based on the progressive remodelling of the epigenetic
landscape and then validated these through a pooled short hairpin RNA screen. We 
were also able to refine our previous observations on epigenetic priming at
transcription factor binding sites and suggest here that they are mediated by
combinations of core and stage-specific factors. Taken together, we demonstrate
the utility of our system and outline a general framework, not limited to the
context of the neural lineage, to dissect regulatory circuits of differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13990 
PMCID: PMC4336237
PMID: 25533951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):413-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13981. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Intracellular α-ketoglutarate maintains the pluripotency of embryonic stem cells.

Carey BW(1), Finley LW(2), Cross JR(3), Allis CD(1), Thompson CB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromatin Biology and Epigenetics, The Rockefeller University,
New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)Donald B. and Catherine C. Marron Cancer Metabolism Center, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

The role of cellular metabolism in regulating cell proliferation and
differentiation remains poorly understood. For example, most mammalian cells
cannot proliferate without exogenous glutamine supplementation even though
glutamine is a non-essential amino acid. Here we show that mouse embryonic stem
(ES) cells grown under conditions that maintain naive pluripotency are capable of
proliferation in the absence of exogenous glutamine. Despite this, ES cells
consume high levels of exogenous glutamine when the metabolite is available. In
comparison to more differentiated cells, naive ES cells utilize both glucose and 
glutamine catabolism to maintain a high level of intracellular α-ketoglutarate
(αKG). Consequently, naive ES cells exhibit an elevated αKG to succinate ratio
that promotes histone/DNA demethylation and maintains pluripotency. Direct
manipulation of the intracellular αKG/succinate ratio is sufficient to regulate
multiple chromatin modifications, including H3K27me3 and ten-eleven translocation
(Tet)-dependent DNA demethylation, which contribute to the regulation of
pluripotency-associated gene expression. In vitro, supplementation with
cell-permeable αKG directly supports ES-cell self-renewal while cell-permeable
succinate promotes differentiation. This work reveals that intracellular
αKG/succinate levels can contribute to the maintenance of cellular identity and
have a mechanistic role in the transcriptional and epigenetic state of stem
cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13981 
PMCID: PMC4336218
PMID: 25487152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):422-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13952. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Dynamics of genomic clones in breast cancer patient xenografts at single-cell
resolution.

Eirew P(1), Steif A(1), Khattra J(1), Ha G(1), Yap D(1), Farahani H(1), Gelmon
K(2), Chia S(2), Mar C(2), Wan A(3), Laks E(1), Biele J(1), Shumansky K(3),
Rosner J(3), McPherson A(1), Nielsen C(1), Roth AJ(1), Lefebvre C(1), Bashashati 
A(1), de Souza C(3), Siu C(3), Aniba R(1), Brimhall J(3), Oloumi A(1), Osako
T(1), Bruna A(4), Sandoval JL(4), Algara T(1), Greenwood W(4), Leung K(5), Cheng 
H(6), Xue H(6), Wang Y(6), Lin D(6), Mungall AJ(7), Moore R(7), Zhao Y(7),
Lorette J(8), Nguyen L(9), Huntsman D(10), Eaves CJ(9), Hansen C(5), Marra MA(7),
Caldas C(4), Shah SP(11), Aparicio S(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 10th Avenue,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada [2] Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia 
V6T 2B5, Canada.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, 600 West 10th Avenue,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 4E6, Canada.
(3)Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 10th Avenue,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.
(4)1] Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 
2XZ, UK [2] Cancer Research UK Cambridge Research Institute, University of
Cambridge, Li Ka Shing Centre, Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.
(5)1] Centre for High-Throughput Biology, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada [2] Department of Physics and
Astronomy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z1,
Canada.
(6)1] Department of Experimental Therapeutics, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 10th
Avenue, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada [2] The Vancouver Prostate
Centre, Vancouver General Hospital and Department of Urologic Sciences,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1M9, Canada.
(7)Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3,
Canada.
(8)Centre for Translational and Applied Genomics, BC Cancer Agency, 600 West 10th
Avenue, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 4E6, Canada.
(9)1] Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada [2] Terry Fox Laboratory, BC Cancer Agency,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.
(10)1] Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 2B5, Canada [2] Centre for
Translational and Applied Genomics, BC Cancer Agency, 600 West 10th Avenue,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 4E6, Canada.
(11)1] Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 10th Avenue, 
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada [2] Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia 
V6T 2B5, Canada [3] Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, Vancouver, British
Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.
(12)1] Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 10th Avenue, 
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada [2] Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia 
V6T 2B5, Canada [3] Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, Vancouver, British
Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada [4] Centre for Translational and Applied Genomics, BC
Cancer Agency, 600 West 10th Avenue, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 4E6, Canada.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2015 Jan 8;16(1):11-2.

Human cancers, including breast cancers, comprise clones differing in mutation
content. Clones evolve dynamically in space and time following principles of
Darwinian evolution, underpinning important emergent features such as drug
resistance and metastasis. Human breast cancer xenoengraftment is used as a means
of capturing and studying tumour biology, and breast tumour xenografts are
generally assumed to be reasonable models of the originating tumours. However,
the consequences and reproducibility of engraftment and propagation on the
genomic clonal architecture of tumours have not been systematically examined at
single-cell resolution. Here we show, using deep-genome and single-cell
sequencing methods, the clonal dynamics of initial engraftment and subsequent
serial propagation of primary and metastatic human breast cancers in
immunodeficient mice. In all 15 cases examined, clonal selection on engraftment
was observed in both primary and metastatic breast tumours, varying in degree
from extreme selective engraftment of minor (<5% of starting population) clones
to moderate, polyclonal engraftment. Furthermore, ongoing clonal dynamics during 
serial passaging is a feature of tumours experiencing modest initial selection.
Through single-cell sequencing, we show that major mutation clusters estimated
from tumour population sequencing relate predictably to the most abundant clonal 
genotypes, even in clonally complex and rapidly evolving cases. Finally, we show 
that similar clonal expansion patterns can emerge in independent grafts of the
same starting tumour population, indicating that genomic aberrations can be
reproducible determinants of evolutionary trajectories. Our results show that
measurement of genomically defined clonal population dynamics will be highly
informative for functional studies using patient-derived breast cancer
xenoengraftment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13952 
PMCID: PMC4864027
PMID: 25470049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):404-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13974. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Modulation of the proteoglycan receptor PTPσ promotes recovery after spinal cord 
injury.

Lang BT(1), Cregg JM(1), DePaul MA(1), Tran AP(1), Xu K(2), Dyck SM(3), Madalena 
KM(1), Brown BP(4), Weng YL(5), Li S(6), Karimi-Abdolrezaee S(3), Busch SA(1),
Shen Y(2), Silver J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University School of
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.
(2)Center for Brain and Spinal Cord Repair, Department of Neuroscience, Wexner
Medical Center at The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.
(3)Regenerative Medicine Program and Department of Physiology, University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0J9, Canada.
(4)Baldwin Wallace University, Berea, Ohio 44017, USA.
(5)Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21205, USA.
(6)Shriners Hospital's Pediatric Research Center (Center for Neural Repair and
Rehabilitation), Temple University School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19140, USA.

Comment in
    Neurosurgery. 2016 Feb;78(2):N14-6.

Contusive spinal cord injury leads to a variety of disabilities owing to limited 
neuronal regeneration and functional plasticity. It is well established that an
upregulation of glial-derived chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) within
the glial scar and perineuronal net creates a barrier to axonal regrowth and
sprouting. Protein tyrosine phosphatase σ (PTPσ), along with its sister
phosphatase leukocyte common antigen-related (LAR) and the nogo receptors 1 and 3
(NgR), have recently been identified as receptors for the inhibitory glycosylated
side chains of CSPGs. Here we find in rats that PTPσ has a critical role in
converting growth cones into a dystrophic state by tightly stabilizing them
within CSPG-rich substrates. We generated a membrane-permeable peptide mimetic of
the PTPσ wedge domain that binds to PTPσ and relieves CSPG-mediated inhibition.
Systemic delivery of this peptide over weeks restored substantial serotonergic
innervation to the spinal cord below the level of injury and facilitated
functional recovery of both locomotor and urinary systems. Our results add a new 
layer of understanding to the critical role of PTPσ in mediating the
growth-inhibited state of neurons due to CSPGs within the injured adult spinal
cord.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13974 
PMCID: PMC4336236
PMID: 25470046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):409-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13975. Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Towards a therapy for Angelman syndrome by targeting a long non-coding RNA.

Meng L(1), Ward AJ(2), Chun S(2), Bennett CF(2), Beaudet AL(1), Rigo F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, and
Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(2)Department of Core Antisense Research, Isis Pharmaceuticals, Carlsbad,
California 92010, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2015 Feb;11(2):66.

Angelman syndrome is a single-gene disorder characterized by intellectual
disability, developmental delay, behavioural uniqueness, speech impairment,
seizures and ataxia. It is caused by maternal deficiency of the imprinted gene
UBE3A, encoding an E3 ubiquitin ligase. All patients carry at least one copy of
paternal UBE3A, which is intact but silenced by a nuclear-localized long
non-coding RNA, UBE3A antisense transcript (UBE3A-ATS). Murine Ube3a-ATS
reduction by either transcription termination or topoisomerase I inhibition has
been shown to increase paternal Ube3a expression. Despite a clear understanding
of the disease-causing event in Angelman syndrome and the potential to harness
the intact paternal allele to correct the disease, no gene-specific treatment
exists for patients. Here we developed a potential therapeutic intervention for
Angelman syndrome by reducing Ube3a-ATS with antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs).
ASO treatment achieved specific reduction of Ube3a-ATS and sustained unsilencing 
of paternal Ube3a in neurons in vitro and in vivo. Partial restoration of UBE3A
protein in an Angelman syndrome mouse model ameliorated some cognitive deficits
associated with the disease. Although additional studies of phenotypic correction
are needed, we have developed a sequence-specific and clinically feasible method 
to activate expression of the paternal Ube3a allele.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13975 
PMCID: PMC4351819
PMID: 25470045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):435-438. doi: 10.1038/nature14023. Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Structure of human cytoplasmic dynein-2 primed for its power stroke.

Schmidt H(#)(1), Zalyte R(#)(1), Urnavicius L(1), Carter AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Division of
Structural Studies, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge, CB2 0QH, United Kingdom.
(#)Contributed equally

Members of the dynein family, consisting of cytoplasmic and axonemal isoforms,
are motors that move towards the minus ends of microtubules. Cytoplasmic dynein-1
(dynein-1) plays roles in mitosis and cellular cargo transport, and is implicated
in viral infections and neurodegenerative diseases. Cytoplasmic dynein-2
(dynein-2) performs intraflagellar transport and is associated with human
skeletal ciliopathies. Dyneins share a conserved motor domain that couples cycles
of ATP hydrolysis with conformational changes to produce movement. Here we
present the crystal structure of the human cytoplasmic dynein-2 motor bound to
the ATP-hydrolysis transition state analogue ADP.vanadate. The structure reveals 
a closure of the motor's ring of six AAA+ domains (ATPases associated with
various cellular activites: AAA1-AAA6). This induces a steric clash with the
linker, the key element for the generation of movement, driving it into a
conformation that is primed to produce force. Ring closure also changes the
interface between the stalk and buttress coiled-coil extensions of the motor
domain. This drives helix sliding in the stalk which causes the microtubule
binding domain at its tip to release from the microtubule. Our structure answers 
the key questions of how ATP hydrolysis leads to linker remodelling and
microtubule affinity regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14023 
PMCID: PMC4336856
PMID: 25470043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):417-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13979. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Deubiquitinase DUBA is a post-translational brake on interleukin-17 production in
T cells.

Rutz S(1), Kayagaki N(2), Phung QT(3), Eidenschenk C(1), Noubade R(1), Wang X(1),
Lesch J(1), Lu R(1), Newton K(2), Huang OW(4), Cochran AG(4), Vasser M(3), Fauber
BP(5), DeVoss J(1), Webster J(6), Diehl L(6), Modrusan Z(7), Kirkpatrick DS(3),
Lill JR(3), Ouyang W(1), Dixit VM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(2)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(3)Department of Protein Chemistry, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(4)Department of Early Discovery Biochemistry, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(5)Discovery Chemistry, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California
94080, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California
94080, USA.
(7)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2015 Mar;25(3):273-4.
    Immunol Cell Biol. 2015 Feb;93(2):111-2.

T-helper type 17 (TH17) cells that produce the cytokines interleukin-17A (IL-17A)
and IL-17F are implicated in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases. The
differentiation of TH17 cells is regulated by transcription factors such as
RORγt, but post-translational mechanisms preventing the rampant production of
pro-inflammatory IL-17A have received less attention. Here we show that the
deubiquitylating enzyme DUBA is a negative regulator of IL-17A production in T
cells. Mice with DUBA-deficient T cells developed exacerbated inflammation in the
small intestine after challenge with anti-CD3 antibodies. DUBA interacted with
the ubiquitin ligase UBR5, which suppressed DUBA abundance in naive T cells. DUBA
accumulated in activated T cells and stabilized UBR5, which then ubiquitylated
RORγt in response to TGF-β signalling. Our data identify DUBA as a cell-intrinsic
suppressor of IL-17 production.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13979 
PMID: 25470037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):427-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13982. Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Catalysts from synthetic genetic polymers.

Taylor AI(1), Pinheiro VB(1), Smola MJ(2), Morgunov AS(1), Peak-Chew S(1), Cozens
C(1), Weeks KM(2), Herdewijn P(3), Holliger P(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge
Biomedical Campus, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599-3290, USA.
(3)1] KU Leuven, Rega Institute, Minderbroedersstraat 10, B 3000 Leuven, Belgium 
[2] Université Evry, Institute of Systems and Synthetic Biology, 5 rue Henri
Desbruères, 91030 Evry Cedex, France.

The emergence of catalysis in early genetic polymers such as RNA is considered a 
key transition in the origin of life, pre-dating the appearance of protein
enzymes. DNA also demonstrates the capacity to fold into three-dimensional
structures and form catalysts in vitro. However, to what degree these natural
biopolymers comprise functionally privileged chemical scaffolds for folding or
the evolution of catalysis is not known. The ability of synthetic genetic
polymers (XNAs) with alternative backbone chemistries not found in nature to fold
into defined structures and bind ligands raises the possibility that these too
might be capable of forming catalysts (XNAzymes). Here we report the discovery of
such XNAzymes, elaborated in four different chemistries (arabino nucleic acids,
ANA; 2'-fluoroarabino nucleic acids, FANA; hexitol nucleic acids, HNA; and
cyclohexene nucleic acids, CeNA) directly from random XNA oligomer pools,
exhibiting in trans RNA endonuclease and ligase activities. We also describe an
XNA-XNA ligase metalloenzyme in the FANA framework, establishing catalysis in an 
entirely synthetic system and enabling the synthesis of FANA oligomers and an
active RNA endonuclease FANAzyme from its constituent parts. These results extend
catalysis beyond biopolymers and establish technologies for the discovery of
catalysts in a wide range of polymer scaffolds not found in nature. Evolution of 
catalysis independent of any natural polymer has implications for the definition 
of chemical boundary conditions for the emergence of life on Earth and elsewhere 
in the Universe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13982 
PMCID: PMC4336857
PMID: 25470036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Nature. 2015 Feb 19;518(7539):337-43. doi: 10.1038/nature13835. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Genetic and epigenetic fine mapping of causal autoimmune disease variants.

Farh KK(1), Marson A(2), Zhu J(3), Kleinewietfeld M(4), Housley WJ(5), Beik S(6),
Shoresh N(6), Whitton H(6), Ryan RJ(7), Shishkin AA(8), Hatan M(6),
Carrasco-Alfonso MJ(9), Mayer D(9), Luckey CJ(9), Patsopoulos NA(10), De Jager
PL(10), Kuchroo VK(11), Epstein CB(6), Daly MJ(1), Hafler DA(4), Bernstein BE(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Analytical and Translational Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(2)Diabetes Center and Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(3)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA [3] Department 
of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA [4] Center for Systems Biology and Center for Cancer
Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(4)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Departments of Neurology and Immunobiology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA.
(5)Departments of Neurology and Immunobiology, Yale School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(6)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(7)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(8)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
California Institute of Technology, 1200 E California Boulevard, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.
(9)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(10)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA
[2] Program in Translational NeuroPsychiatric Genomics, Institute for the
Neurosciences, Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Division of Genetics,
Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(11)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2015 Mar;11(3):131-2.
    Immunity. 2014 Dec 18;41(6):883-5.
    Ann Transl Med. 2017 Mar;5(6):151.

Genome-wide association studies have identified loci underlying human diseases,
but the causal nucleotide changes and mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here we 
developed a fine-mapping algorithm to identify candidate causal variants for 21
autoimmune diseases from genotyping data. We integrated these predictions with
transcription and cis-regulatory element annotations, derived by mapping RNA and 
chromatin in primary immune cells, including resting and stimulated CD4(+) T-cell
subsets, regulatory T cells, CD8(+) T cells, B cells, and monocytes. We find that
∼90% of causal variants are non-coding, with ∼60% mapping to immune-cell
enhancers, many of which gain histone acetylation and transcribe
enhancer-associated RNA upon immune stimulation. Causal variants tend to occur
near binding sites for master regulators of immune differentiation and
stimulus-dependent gene activation, but only 10-20% directly alter recognizable
transcription factor binding motifs. Rather, most non-coding risk variants,
including those that alter gene expression, affect non-canonical sequence
determinants not well-explained by current gene regulatory models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13835 
PMCID: PMC4336207
PMID: 25363779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Nature. 2015 Feb 12;518(7538):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature13923. Epub 2014 Nov 24.

RNA helicase DDX21 coordinates transcription and ribosomal RNA processing.

Calo E(1), Flynn RA(2), Martin L(2), Spitale RC(2), Chang HY(2), Wysocka J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(3)1] Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Department of Developmental
Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

DEAD-box RNA helicases are vital for the regulation of various aspects of the RNA
life cycle, but the molecular underpinnings of their involvement, particularly in
mammalian cells, remain poorly understood. Here we show that the DEAD-box RNA
helicase DDX21 can sense the transcriptional status of both RNA polymerase (Pol) 
I and II to control multiple steps of ribosome biogenesis in human cells. We
demonstrate that DDX21 widely associates with Pol I- and Pol II-transcribed genes
and with diverse species of RNA, most prominently with non-coding RNAs involved
in the formation of ribonucleoprotein complexes, including ribosomal RNA, small
nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) and 7SK RNA. Although broad, these molecular
interactions, both at the chromatin and RNA level, exhibit remarkable specificity
for the regulation of ribosomal genes. In the nucleolus, DDX21 occupies the
transcribed rDNA locus, directly contacts both rRNA and snoRNAs, and promotes
rRNA transcription, processing and modification. In the nucleoplasm, DDX21 binds 
7SK RNA and, as a component of the 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP)
complex, is recruited to the promoters of Pol II-transcribed genes encoding
ribosomal proteins and snoRNAs. Promoter-bound DDX21 facilitates the release of
the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) from the 7SK snRNP in a
manner that is dependent on its helicase activity, thereby promoting
transcription of its target genes. Our results uncover the multifaceted role of
DDX21 in multiple steps of ribosome biogenesis, and provide evidence implicating 
a mammalian RNA helicase in RNA modification and Pol II elongation control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13923 
PMCID: PMC4827702
PMID: 25470060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Nature. 2015 Feb 12;518(7538):228-31. doi: 10.1038/nature13962. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Homo erectus at Trinil on Java used shells for tool production and engraving.

Joordens JC(1), d'Errico F(2), Wesselingh FP(3), Munro S(4), de Vos J(3),
Wallinga J(5), Ankjærgaard C(5), Reimann T(5), Wijbrans JR(6), Kuiper KF(6),
Mücher HJ(7), Coqueugniot H(8), Prié V(9), Joosten I(10), van Os B(10), Schulp
AS(11), Panuel M(12), van der Haas V(13), Lustenhouwer W(6), Reijmer JJ(6),
Roebroeks W(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Faculty of Archaeology, Leiden University, PO Box 9515, 2300RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands [2] Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, De
Boelelaan 1085, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)1] Université de Bordeaux, CNRS UMR 5199, Allée Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, 33615 
Pessac, France [2] Institute of Archaeology, History, Cultural Studies and
Religion, University of Bergen, Øysteinsgate 3PO Box 7805, Bergen, Norway.
(3)Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Darwinweg 2, PO Box 9517, 2300RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands.
(4)1] School of Archaeology and Anthropology, Australian National University,
Australian Capital Territory, 0200 Canberra, Australia [2] National Museum of
Australia, Australian Capital Territory 2601, Canberra, Australia.
(5)1] Wageningen University, Soil Geography and Landscape Group &Netherlands
Centre for Luminescence Dating, PO Box 47, 6700AA, Wageningen, The Netherlands
[2] Delft University of Technology, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Mekelweg 15,
2629JB, Delft, The Netherlands.
(6)Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan
1085, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)1] Faculty of Archaeology, Leiden University, PO Box 9515, 2300RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands [2] Prinses Beatrixsingel 21, 6301VK, Valkenburg, The Netherlands.
(8)Université de Bordeaux, CNRS UMR 5199, Allée Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire, 33615
Pessac, France.
(9)1] Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, UMR 7205, Institut de Systématique,
Evolution, Biodiversité, CP51, 55 Rue Buffon, 75005 Paris, France [2] Biotope
Recherche et Développement, 22 Boulevard Maréchal Foch, 34140 Mèze, France.
(10)Cultural Heritage Agency of the Netherlands, PO Box 1600, 3800BP, Amersfoort,
The Netherlands.
(11)1] Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 
1085, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2] Naturalis Biodiversity Center,
Darwinweg 2, PO Box 9517, 2300RA, Leiden, The Netherlands [3] Natuurhistorisch
Museum Maastricht, De Bosquetplein 7, 6211KJ, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(12)1] Faculté de Médecine, Université d'Aix-Marseille, EFS, CNRS UMR 7268,
Boulevard Pierre Dramard, 13344 Marseille, France [2] Department of Medical
Imaging Hôpital Nord, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Marseille, Chemin de
Bourrellys, 13915 Marseille, France.
(13)Faculty of Archaeology, Leiden University, PO Box 9515, 2300RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands.

The manufacture of geometric engravings is generally interpreted as indicative of
modern cognition and behaviour. Key questions in the debate on the origin of such
behaviour are whether this innovation is restricted to Homo sapiens, and whether 
it has a uniquely African origin. Here we report on a fossil freshwater shell
assemblage from the Hauptknochenschicht ('main bone layer') of Trinil (Java,
Indonesia), the type locality of Homo erectus discovered by Eugène Dubois in 1891
(refs 2 and 3). In the Dubois collection (in the Naturalis museum, Leiden, The
Netherlands) we found evidence for freshwater shellfish consumption by hominins, 
one unambiguous shell tool, and a shell with a geometric engraving. We dated
sediment contained in the shells with (40)Ar/(39)Ar and luminescence dating
methods, obtaining a maximum age of 0.54 ± 0.10 million years and a minimum age
of 0.43 ± 0.05 million years. This implies that the Trinil Hauptknochenschicht is
younger than previously estimated. Together, our data indicate that the engraving
was made by Homo erectus, and that it is considerably older than the oldest
geometric engravings described so far. Although it is at present not possible to 
assess the function or meaning of the engraved shell, this discovery suggests
that engraving abstract patterns was in the realm of Asian Homo erectus cognition
and neuromotor control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13962 
PMID: 25470048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Nature. 2015 Feb 12;518(7538):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13948. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Convergent loss of PTEN leads to clinical resistance to a PI(3)Kα inhibitor.

Juric D(1), Castel P(2), Griffith M(3), Griffith OL(4), Won HH(5), Ellis H(2),
Ebbesen SH(6), Ainscough BJ(7), Ramu A(7), Iyer G(8), Shah RH(2), Huynh T(1),
Mino-Kenudson M(1), Sgroi D(1), Isakoff S(1), Thabet A(1), Elamine L(1), Solit
DB(8), Lowe SW(9), Quadt C(10), Peters M(10), Derti A(11), Schegel R(11), Huang
A(11), Mardis ER(12), Berger MF(5), Baselga J(13), Scaltriti M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, 55 Fruit Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(2)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program (HOPP), Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, 4566
Scott Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] Siteman Cancer Center, Washington
University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110,
USA [3] The Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, 4444
Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(4)1] Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South 
Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] The Genome Institute, Washington
University School of Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108,
USA [3] Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 660
South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(5)1] Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program (HOPP), Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA [2]
Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(6)Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(7)The Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, 4444 Forest
Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(8)1] Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program (HOPP), Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA [2]
Division of Genitourinary Oncology, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(9)1] Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, Cancer Biology and Genetics Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(10)Novartis Pharma AG, Forum 1, Novartis Campus, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland.
(11)Oncology Translational Medicine, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(12)1] Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, 4566
Scott Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] Siteman Cancer Center, Washington
University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110,
USA [3] The Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, 4444
Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [4] Department of Medicine,
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis,
Missouri 63110, USA.
(13)1] Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program (HOPP), Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Breast
Medicine Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
1275 York Avenue, Box 20, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Broad and deep tumour genome sequencing has shed new light on tumour
heterogeneity and provided important insights into the evolution of metastases
arising from different clones. There is an additional layer of complexity, in
that tumour evolution may be influenced by selective pressure provided by
therapy, in a similar fashion to that occurring in infectious diseases. Here we
studied tumour genomic evolution in a patient (index patient) with metastatic
breast cancer bearing an activating PIK3CA (phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate
3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha, PI(3)Kα) mutation. The patient was treated
with the PI(3)Kα inhibitor BYL719, which achieved a lasting clinical response,
but the patient eventually became resistant to this drug (emergence of lung
metastases) and died shortly thereafter. A rapid autopsy was performed and
material from a total of 14 metastatic sites was collected and sequenced. All
metastatic lesions, when compared to the pre-treatment tumour, had a copy loss of
PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) and those lesions that became refractory to
BYL719 had additional and different PTEN genetic alterations, resulting in the
loss of PTEN expression. To put these results in context, we examined six other
patients also treated with BYL719. Acquired bi-allelic loss of PTEN was found in 
one of these patients, whereas in two others PIK3CA mutations present in the
primary tumour were no longer detected at the time of progression. To
characterize our findings functionally, we examined the effects of PTEN knockdown
in several preclinical models (both in cell lines intrinsically sensitive to
BYL719 and in PTEN-null xenografts derived from our index patient), which we
found resulted in resistance to BYL719, whereas simultaneous PI(3)K p110β
blockade reverted this resistance phenotype. We conclude that parallel genetic
evolution of separate metastatic sites with different PTEN genomic alterations
leads to a convergent PTEN-null phenotype resistant to PI(3)Kα inhibition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13948 
PMCID: PMC4326538
PMID: 25409150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Nature. 2015 Feb 5;518(7537):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13917. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Exome sequencing identifies rare LDLR and APOA5 alleles conferring risk for
myocardial infarction.

Do R(1), Stitziel NO(2), Won HH(1), Jørgensen AB(3), Duga S(4), Angelica Merlini 
P(5), Kiezun A(6), Farrall M(7), Goel A(7), Zuk O(6), Guella I(4), Asselta R(4), 
Lange LA(8), Peloso GM(1), Auer PL(9); NHLBI Exome Sequencing Project, Girelli
D(10), Martinelli N(10), Farlow DN(6), DePristo MA(6), Roberts R(11), Stewart
AF(11), Saleheen D(12), Danesh J(12), Epstein SE(13), Sivapalaratnam S(14),
Hovingh GK(14), Kastelein JJ(14), Samani NJ(15), Schunkert H(16), Erdmann J(17), 
Shah SH(18), Kraus WE(19), Davies R(20), Nikpay M(20), Johansen CT(21), Wang
J(21), Hegele RA(22), Hechter E(6), Marz W(23), Kleber ME(24), Huang J(25),
Johnson AD(26), Li M(27), Burke GL(28), Gross M(29), Liu Y(30), Assimes TL(31),
Heiss G(32), Lange EM(33), Folsom AR(34), Taylor HA(35), Olivieri O(10), Hamsten 
A(36), Clarke R(37), Reilly DF(38), Yin W(38), Rivas MA(39), Donnelly P(40),
Rossouw JE(41), Psaty BM(42), Herrington DM(43), Wilson JG(44), Rich SS(45),
Bamshad MJ(46), Tracy RP(47), Cupples LA(48), Rader DJ(49), Reilly MP(50),
Spertus JA(51), Cresci S(52), Hartiala J(53), Tang WH(54), Hazen SL(54), Allayee 
H(53), Reiner AP(55), Carlson CS(9), Kooperberg C(9), Jackson RD(56), Boerwinkle 
E(57), Lander ES(6), Schwartz SM(55), Siscovick DS(58), McPherson R(20),
Tybjaerg-Hansen A(59), Abecasis GR(60), Watkins H(61), Nickerson DA(62),
Ardissino D(63), Sunyaev SR(64), O'Donnell CJ(25), Altshuler D(65), Gabriel S(6),
Kathiresan S(1).

Collaborators: Gabriel SB, Altshuler DM, Abecasis GR, Allayee H, Cresci S, Daly
MJ, de Bakker PI, DePristo MA, Do R, Donnelly P, Farlow DN, Fennell T, Garimella 
K, Hazen SL, Hu Y, Jordan DM, Jun G, Kathiresan S, Kang HM, Kiezun A, Lettre G,
Li B, Li M, Newton-Cheh CH, Padmanabhan S, Peloso G, Pulit S, Rader DJ, Reich D, 
Reilly MP, Rivas MA, Schwartz S, Scott L, Siscovick DS, Spertus JA, Stitziel NO, 
Stoletzki N, Sunyaev SR, Voight BF, Willer CJ, Rich SS, Akylbekova E, Atwood LD, 
Ballantyne CM, Barbalic M, Barr RG, Benjamin EJ, Bis J, Boerwinkle E, Bowden DW, 
Brody J, Budoff M, Burke G, Buxbaum S, Carr J, Chen DT, Chen IY, Chen WM,
Concannon P, Crosby J, Cupples L, D'Agostino R, DeStefano AL, Dreisbach A, Dupuis
J, Durda J, Ellis J, Folsom AR, Fornage M, Fox CS, Fox E, Funari V, Ganesh SK,
Gardin J, Goff D, Gordon O, Grody W, Gross M, Guo X, Hall IM, Heard-Costa NL,
Heckbert SR, Heintz N, Herrington DM, Hickson D, Huang J, Hwang SJ, Jacobs DR,
Jenny NS, Johnson AD, Johnson CW, Kawut S, Kronmal R, Kurz R, Lange EM, Lange LA,
Larson MG, Lawson M, Lewis CE, Levy D, Li D, Lin H, Liu C, Liu J, Liu K, Liu X,
Liu Y, Longstreth WT, Loria C, Lumley T, Lunetta K, Mackey AJ, Mackey R,
Manichaikul A, Maxwell T, McKnight B, Meigs JB, Morrison AC, Musani SK,
Mychaleckyj JC, Nettleton JA, North K, O'Donnell CJ, O'Leary D, Ong FS, Palmas W,
Pankow JS, Pankratz ND, Paul S, Perez M, Person SD, Polak J, Post WS, Psaty BM,
Quinlan AR, Raffel LJ, Ramachandran VS, Reiner AP, Rice K, Rotter JI, Sanders JP,
Schreiner P, Seshadri S, Shea S, Sidney S, Silverstein K, Siscovick DS, Smith NL,
Sotoodehnia N, Srinivasan A, Taylor HA, Taylor K, Thomas F, Tracy RP, Tsai MY,
Volcik KA, Wassel CL, Watson K, Wei G, White W, Wiggins KL, Wilk JB, Williams O, 
Wilson G, Wilson JG, Wolf P, Zakai NA, Hardy J, Meschia JF, Nalls M, Rich SS,
Singleton A, Worrall B, Bamshad MJ, Barnes KC, Abdulhamid I, Accurso F, Anbar R, 
Beaty T, Bigham A, Black P, Bleecker E, Buckingham K, Cairns AM, Chen WM, Caplan 
D, Chatfield B, Chidekel A, Cho M, Christiani DC, Crapo J, Crouch J, Daley D,
Dang A, Dang H, De Paula A, DeCelie-Germana J, Dozor A, Drumm M, Dyson M, Emerson
J, Emond MJ, Ferkol T, Fink R, Foster C, Froh D, Gao L, Gershan W, Gibson RL,
Godwin E, Gondor M, Gutierrez H, Hansel NN, Hassoun PM, Hiatt P, Hokanson JE,
Howenstine M, Hummer LK, Jamal SM, Kanga J, Kim Y, Knowles MR, Konstan M, Lahiri 
T, Laird N, Lange C, Lin L, Lin X, Louie TL, Lynch D, Make B, Martin TR, Mathai
SC, Mathias RA, McNamara J, McNamara S, Meyers D, Millard S, Mogayzel P, Moss R, 
Murray T, Nielson D, Noyes B, O'Neal W, Orenstein D, O'Sullivan B, Pace R, Pare
P, Parker H, Passero MA, Perkett E, Prestridge A, Rafaels NM, Ramsey B, Regan E, 
Ren C, Retsch-Bogart G, Rock M, Rosen A, Rosenfeld M, Ruczinski I, Sanford A,
Schaeffer D, Sell C, Sheehan D, Silverman EK, Sin D, Spencer T, Stonebraker J,
Tabor HK, Varlotta L, Vergara CI, Weiss R, Wigley F, Wise RA, Wright FA, Wurfel
MM, Zanni R, Zou F, Nickerson DA, Rieder MJ, Green P, Shendure J, Akey JM,
Bamshad MJ, Bustamante CD, Crosslin DR, Eichler EE, Fox P, Fu W, Gordon A, Gravel
S, Jarvik GP, Johnsen JM, Kan M, Kenny EE, Kidd JM, Lara-Garduno F, Leal SM, Liu 
DJ, McGee S, O'Connor TD, Paeper B, Robertson PD, Smith JD, Staples JC, Tennessen
JA, Turner EH, Wang G, Yi Q, Jackson R, North K, Peters U, Carlson CS, Anderson
G, Anton-Culver H, Assimes TL, Auer PL, Beresford S, Bizon C, Black H, Brunner R,
Brzyski R, Burwen D, Caan B, Carty CL, Chlebowski R, Cummings S, Curb JD, Eaton
CB, Ford L, Franceschini N, Fullerton SM, Gass M, Geller N, Heiss G, Howard BV,
Hsu L, Hutter CM, Ioannidis J, Jiao S, Johnson KC, Kooperberg C, Kuller L,
LaCroix A, Lakshminarayan K, Lane D, Lange EM, Lange LA, Lasser N, LeBlanc E,
Lewis CE, Li KP, Limacher M, Lin DY, Logsdon BA, Hutchinson F, Ludlam S, Manson
JE, Margolis K, Martin L, McGowan J, Monda KL, Kotchen JM, Nathan L, Ockene J,
O'Sullivan MJ, Phillips LS, Prentice RL, Reiner AP, Robbins J, Robinson JG,
Rossouw JE, Sangi-Haghpeykar H, Sarto GE, Shumaker S, Simon MS, Stefanick ML,
Stein E, Tang H, Taylor KC, Thomson CA, Thornton TA, Van Horn L, Vitolins M,
Wactawski-Wende J, Wallace R, Wassertheil-Smoller S, Zeng D, Applebaum-Bowden D, 
Feolo M, Gan W, Paltoo DN, Rossouw JE, Sholinsky P, Sturcke A.

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA. [2] Cardiovascular Research Center, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. [3] Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. [4] Program in Medical 
and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)1] Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. [2] Division of Statistical
Genomics, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110,
USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry KB3011, Section for Molecular Genetics,
Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospitals and Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen 1165, Denmark.
(4)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie Mediche e Medicina Traslazionale, Università
degli Studi di Milano, Milano 20122, Italy.
(5)Division of Cardiology, Ospedale Niguarda, Milano 20162, Italy.
(6)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, 7 Cambridge
Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(7)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human
Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2J, UK.
(8)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599, USA.
(9)Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(10)University of Verona School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Verona
37129, Italy.
(11)John &Jennifer Ruddy Canadian Cardiovascular Genetics Centre, University of
Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, Ontario K1Y 4W7, Canada.
(12)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 1TN, UK.
(13)MedStar Health Research Institute, Cardiovascular Research Institute,
Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.
(14)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam 1105 AZ, 
The Netherlands.
(15)Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester, and Leicester
NIHR Biomedical Research Unit in Cardiovascular Disease, Glenfield Hospital,
Leicester LE3 9QP, UK.
(16)DZHK (German Research Centre for Cardiovascular Research), Munich Heart
Alliance, Deutsches Herzzentrum München, Technische Universität München, Berlin
13347, Germany.
(17)Medizinische Klinik II, University of Lübeck, Lübeck 23562, Germany.
(18)1] Center for Human Genetics, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, 
USA. [2] Department of Cardiology and Center for Genomic Medicine, Duke
University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.
(19)Department of Cardiology and Center for Genomic Medicine, Duke University
School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.
(20)Division of Cardiology, University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa, Ontario
K1Y 4W7, Canada.
(21)Department of Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry,
Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A
3K7, Canada.
(22)1] Department of Biochemistry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry,
Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A
3K7, Canada. [2] Department of Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario N6A 3K7, Canada.
(23)1] Medical Faculty Mannheim, Mannheim Institute of Public Health, Social and 
Preventive Medicine, Heidelberg University, Ludolf Krehl Strasse 7-11, Mannheim
D-68167, Germany. [2] Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory
Diagnostics, Medical University of Graz, Graz 8036, Austria. [3] Synlab Academy, 
Mannheim 68259, Germany.
(24)Medical Faculty Mannheim, Mannheim Institute of Public Health, Social and
Preventive Medicine, Heidelberg University, Ludolf Krehl Strasse 7-11, Mannheim
D-68167, Germany.
(25)The National Heart, Lung, Blood Institute's Framingham Heart Study,
Framingham, Massachusetts 01702, USA.
(26)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Center for Population Studies, The 
Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, Massachusetts 01702, USA.
(27)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Medicine, University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(28)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama-Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 35233, USA.
(29)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, School of Medicine,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(30)School of Medicine, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
27106, USA.
(31)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(32)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina 27599, USA.
(33)1] Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina 27599, USA. [2] Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(34)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, University of Minnesota School
of Public Health, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(35)University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi 39216, USA.
(36)Atherosclerosis Research Unit, Department of Medicine, and Center for
Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 171 77, Sweden.
(37)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD, UK.
(38)Merck Sharp &Dohme Corporation, Rahway, New Jersey 08889, USA.
(39)The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 2JD, UK.
(40)1] The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 2JD, UK. [2] Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD, 
UK.
(41)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20824, USA.
(42)1] Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Departments of Medicine,
Epidemiology, and Health Services, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA. [2] Group Health Research Institute, Group Health Cooperative,
Seattle, Washington 98101, USA.
(43)Section on Cardiology, and Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest School of
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27106, USA.
(44)Jackson Heart Study, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson State 
University, Jackson, Mississippi 39217, USA.
(45)Center for Public Health Genomics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22904, USA.
(46)1] Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. [2] Seattle Children's Hospital,
Seattle, Washington 98105, USA. [3] Department of Genome Sciences, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(47)Department of Biochemistry, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05405,
USA.
(48)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health,
Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.
(49)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(50)Cardiovascular Institute, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(51)St Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, University of Missouri-Kansas City,
Kansas City, Missouri 64111, USA.
(52)1] Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. [2] Department of Genetics,
Washington University in St Louis, Missouri 63130, USA.
(53)Department of Preventive Medicine and Institute for Genetic Medicine,
University of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles,
California 90033, USA.
(54)Cardiovascular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.
(55)1] Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, Washington 98109, USA. [2] Department of Epidemiology, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(56)Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.
(57)Human Genetics Center, The University of Texas Health Science Center at
Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(58)1] Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA. [2] Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(59)1] Department of Clinical Biochemistry KB3011, Section for Molecular
Genetics, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospitals and Faculty of Health
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen 1165, Denmark. [2] Faculty of
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B, 2200
København N, Denmark.
(60)Center for Statistical Genetics, Department of Biostatistics, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Missouri 48109, USA.
(61)1] Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human
Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2J, UK. [2] The Wellcome Trust Centre 
for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD, UK.
(62)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA.
(63)Department of Cardiology, Parma Hospital, Parma 43100, Italy.
(64)1] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, 7 Cambridge
Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA. [2] Division of Genetics, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(65)1] Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA. [2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad
Institute, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2015 Feb;12(2):64.

Myocardial infarction (MI), a leading cause of death around the world, displays a
complex pattern of inheritance. When MI occurs early in life, genetic inheritance
is a major component to risk. Previously, rare mutations in low-density
lipoprotein (LDL) genes have been shown to contribute to MI risk in individual
families, whereas common variants at more than 45 loci have been associated with 
MI risk in the population. Here we evaluate how rare mutations contribute to
early-onset MI risk in the population. We sequenced the protein-coding regions of
9,793 genomes from patients with MI at an early age (≤50 years in males and ≤60
years in females) along with MI-free controls. We identified two genes in which
rare coding-sequence mutations were more frequent in MI cases versus controls at 
exome-wide significance. At low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), carriers of 
rare non-synonymous mutations were at 4.2-fold increased risk for MI; carriers of
null alleles at LDLR were at even higher risk (13-fold difference). Approximately
2% of early MI cases harbour a rare, damaging mutation in LDLR; this estimate is 
similar to one made more than 40 years ago using an analysis of total
cholesterol. Among controls, about 1 in 217 carried an LDLR coding-sequence
mutation and had plasma LDL cholesterol > 190 mg dl(-1). At apolipoprotein A-V
(APOA5), carriers of rare non-synonymous mutations were at 2.2-fold increased
risk for MI. When compared with non-carriers, LDLR mutation carriers had higher
plasma LDL cholesterol, whereas APOA5 mutation carriers had higher plasma
triglycerides. Recent evidence has connected MI risk with coding-sequence
mutations at two genes functionally related to APOA5, namely lipoprotein lipase
and apolipoprotein C-III (refs 18, 19). Combined, these observations suggest
that, as well as LDL cholesterol, disordered metabolism of triglyceride-rich
lipoproteins contributes to MI risk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13917 
PMCID: PMC4319990
PMID: 25487149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Nature. 2015 Feb 5;518(7537):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature13965. Epub 2014 Nov 24.

Transferred interbacterial antagonism genes augment eukaryotic innate immune
function.

Chou S(1), Daugherty MD(2), Peterson SB(1), Biboy J(3), Yang Y(4), Jutras BL(5), 
Fritz-Laylin LK(6), Ferrin MA(1), Harding BN(1), Jacobs-Wagner C(7), Yang XF(4), 
Vollmer W(3), Malik HS(2), Mougous JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(2)1] Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(3)Centre for Bacterial Cell Biology, Institute for Cell and Molecular
Biosciences, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4AX, UK.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA.
(5)1] Microbial Sciences Institute, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06516, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06516, USA.
(6)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, University of California,
San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(7)1] Microbial Sciences Institute, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06516, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06516, USA [3] Department of Microbial Pathogenesis, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA [4] Department of Molecular, Cellular, and
Developmental Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2014 Dec 10;16(6):701-3.

Horizontal gene transfer allows organisms to rapidly acquire adaptive traits.
Although documented instances of horizontal gene transfer from bacteria to
eukaryotes remain rare, bacteria represent a rich source of new functions
potentially available for co-option. One benefit that genes of bacterial origin
could provide to eukaryotes is the capacity to produce antibacterials, which have
evolved in prokaryotes as the result of eons of interbacterial competition. The
type VI secretion amidase effector (Tae) proteins are potent bacteriocidal
enzymes that degrade the cell wall when delivered into competing bacterial cells 
by the type VI secretion system. Here we show that tae genes have been
transferred to eukaryotes on at least six occasions, and that the resulting
domesticated amidase effector (dae) genes have been preserved for hundreds of
millions of years through purifying selection. We show that the dae genes
acquired eukaryotic secretion signals, are expressed within recipient organisms, 
and encode active antibacterial toxins that possess substrate specificity
matching extant Tae proteins of the same lineage. Finally, we show that a dae
gene in the deer tick Ixodes scapularis limits proliferation of Borrelia
burgdorferi, the aetiologic agent of Lyme disease. Our work demonstrates that a
family of horizontally acquired toxins honed to mediate interbacterial antagonism
confers previously undescribed antibacterial capacity to eukaryotes. We speculate
that the selective pressure imposed by competition between bacteria has produced 
a reservoir of genes encoding diverse antimicrobial functions that are tailored
for co-option by eukaryotic innate immune systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13965 
PMCID: PMC4713192
PMID: 25470067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Nature. 2015 Feb 5;518(7537):107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature13905. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

MicroRNA silencing for cancer therapy targeted to the tumour microenvironment.

Cheng CJ(1), Bahal R(2), Babar IA(3), Pincus Z(3), Barrera F(4), Liu C(3),
Svoronos A(4), Braddock DT(5), Glazer PM(2), Engelman DM(4), Saltzman WM(6),
Slack FJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA [2] Department of Biomedical
Engineering, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA [3] Department of
Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06511, USA.
(2)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06511, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06511, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Dec;13(12):888.

MicroRNAs are short non-coding RNAs expressed in different tissue and cell types 
that suppress the expression of target genes. As such, microRNAs are critical
cogs in numerous biological processes, and dysregulated microRNA expression is
correlated with many human diseases. Certain microRNAs, called oncomiRs, play a
causal role in the onset and maintenance of cancer when overexpressed. Tumours
that depend on these microRNAs are said to display oncomiR addiction. Some of the
most effective anticancer therapies target oncogenes such as EGFR and HER2;
similarly, inhibition of oncomiRs using antisense oligomers (that is, antimiRs)
is an evolving therapeutic strategy. However, the in vivo efficacy of current
antimiR technologies is hindered by physiological and cellular barriers to
delivery into targeted cells. Here we introduce a novel antimiR delivery platform
that targets the acidic tumour microenvironment, evades systemic clearance by the
liver, and facilitates cell entry via a non-endocytic pathway. We find that the
attachment of peptide nucleic acid antimiRs to a peptide with a low pH-induced
transmembrane structure (pHLIP) produces a novel construct that could target the 
tumour microenvironment, transport antimiRs across plasma membranes under acidic 
conditions such as those found in solid tumours (pH approximately 6), and
effectively inhibit the miR-155 oncomiR in a mouse model of lymphoma. This study 
introduces a new model for using antimiRs as anti-cancer drugs, which can have
broad impacts on the field of targeted drug delivery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13905 
PMCID: PMC4367962
PMID: 25409146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nature. 2015 Feb 5;518(7537):120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13912. Epub 2014 Nov 10.

Structure and function of a single-chain, multi-domain long-chain acyl-CoA
carboxylase.

Tran TH(1), Hsiao YS(2), Jo J(1), Chou CY(1), Dietrich LE(1), Walz T(3), Tong
L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(3)1] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Biotin-dependent carboxylases are widely distributed in nature and have important
functions in the metabolism of fatty acids, amino acids, carbohydrates,
cholesterol and other compounds. Defective mutations in several of these enzymes 
have been linked to serious metabolic diseases in humans, and acetyl-CoA
carboxylase is a target for drug discovery in the treatment of diabetes, cancer
and other diseases. Here we report the identification and biochemical, structural
and functional characterizations of a novel single-chain (120 kDa), multi-domain 
biotin-dependent carboxylase in bacteria. It has preference for long-chain
acyl-CoA substrates, although it is also active towards short-chain and
medium-chain acyl-CoAs, and we have named it long-chain acyl-CoA carboxylase. The
holoenzyme is a homo-hexamer with molecular mass of 720 kDa. The 3.0 Å crystal
structure of the long-chain acyl-CoA carboxylase holoenzyme from Mycobacterium
avium subspecies paratuberculosis revealed an architecture that is strikingly
different from those of related biotin-dependent carboxylases. In addition, the
domains of each monomer have no direct contact with each other. They are instead 
extensively swapped in the holoenzyme, such that one cycle of catalysis involves 
the participation of four monomers. Functional studies in Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
suggest that the enzyme is involved in the utilization of selected carbon and
nitrogen sources.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13912 
PMCID: PMC4319993
PMID: 25383525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):621-5. doi: 10.1038/nature14112. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Lineage-negative progenitors mobilize to regenerate lung epithelium after major
injury.

Vaughan AE(1), Brumwell AN(1), Xi Y(1), Gotts JE(1), Brownfield DG(2), Treutlein 
B(3), Tan K(1), Tan V(1), Liu FC(1), Looney MR(1), Matthay MA(1), Rock JR(4),
Chapman HA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular Research Institute, University of
California, San Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of Medicine and Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Department of Evolutionary
Genetics, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(4)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, University of California, San
Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2015 Aug;46(2):315-7.
    Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):556-7.
    Nat Biotechnol. 2015 Feb;33(2):152-4.

Broadly, tissue regeneration is achieved in two ways: by proliferation of common 
differentiated cells and/or by deployment of specialized stem/progenitor cells.
Which of these pathways applies is both organ- and injury-specific. Current
models in the lung posit that epithelial repair can be attributed to cells
expressing mature lineage markers. By contrast, here we define the regenerative
role of previously uncharacterized, rare lineage-negative epithelial
stem/progenitor (LNEP) cells present within normal distal lung. Quiescent LNEPs
activate a ΔNp63 (a p63 splice variant) and cytokeratin 5 remodelling program
after influenza or bleomycin injury in mice. Activated cells proliferate and
migrate widely to occupy heavily injured areas depleted of mature lineages, at
which point they differentiate towards mature epithelium. Lineage tracing
revealed scant contribution of pre-existing mature epithelial cells in such
repair, whereas orthotopic transplantation of LNEPs, isolated by a definitive
surface profile identified through single-cell sequencing, directly demonstrated 
the proliferative capacity and multipotency of this population. LNEPs require
Notch signalling to activate the ΔNp63 and cytokeratin 5 program, and subsequent 
Notch blockade promotes an alveolar cell fate. Persistent Notch signalling after 
injury led to parenchymal 'micro-honeycombing' (alveolar cysts), indicative of
failed regeneration. Lungs from patients with fibrosis show analogous honeycomb
cysts with evidence of hyperactive Notch signalling. Our findings indicate that
distinct stem/progenitor cell pools repopulate injured tissue depending on the
extent of the injury, and the outcomes of regeneration or fibrosis may depend in 
part on the dynamics of LNEP Notch signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14112 
PMCID: PMC4312207
PMID: 25533958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):571-5. doi: 10.1038/nature14099. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

An Arabidopsis gene regulatory network for secondary cell wall synthesis.

Taylor-Teeples M(1), Lin L(2), de Lucas M(1), Turco G(1), Toal TW(1), Gaudinier
A(1), Young NF(2), Trabucco GM(2), Veling MT(2), Lamothe R(2), Handakumbura
PP(2), Xiong G(3), Wang C(4), Corwin J(5), Tsoukalas A(6), Zhang L(7), Ware D(8),
Pauly M(3), Kliebenstein DJ(5), Dehesh K(4), Tagkopoulos I(6), Breton G(9),
Pruneda-Paz JL(9), Ahnert SE(10), Kay SA(9), Hazen SP(2), Brady SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Plant Biology, University of California Davis, One Shields
Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA [2] Genome Center, University of California 
Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(2)Biology Department, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003,
USA.
(3)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California Berkeley, 
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(4)Department of Plant Biology, University of California Davis, One Shields
Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(5)Department of Plant Sciences, University of California Davis, One Shields
Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(6)1] Genome Center, University of California Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis,
California 95616, USA [2] Department of Computer Science, University of
California Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(7)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(8)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA [2] 
US Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Ithaca, New York
14853, USA.
(9)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, Division of Biological Sciences,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(10)Theory of Condensed Matter Group, Cavendish Laboratory, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):558-9.

The plant cell wall is an important factor for determining cell shape, function
and response to the environment. Secondary cell walls, such as those found in
xylem, are composed of cellulose, hemicelluloses and lignin and account for the
bulk of plant biomass. The coordination between transcriptional regulation of
synthesis for each polymer is complex and vital to cell function. A regulatory
hierarchy of developmental switches has been proposed, although the full
complement of regulators remains unknown. Here we present a protein-DNA network
between Arabidopsis thaliana transcription factors and secondary cell wall
metabolic genes with gene expression regulated by a series of feed-forward loops.
This model allowed us to develop and validate new hypotheses about secondary wall
gene regulation under abiotic stress. Distinct stresses are able to perturb
targeted genes to potentially promote functional adaptation. These interactions
will serve as a foundation for understanding the regulation of a complex,
integral plant component.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14099 
PMCID: PMC4333722
PMID: 25533953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):583-8. doi: 10.1038/nature14136. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Genome-scale transcriptional activation by an engineered CRISPR-Cas9 complex.

Konermann S(1), Brigham MD(1), Trevino AE(1), Joung J(2), Abudayyeh OO(1),
Barcena C(1), Hsu PD(1), Habib N(3), Gootenberg JS(4), Nishimasu H(5), Nureki
O(6), Zhang F(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 75 Ames Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [3] Department of
Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [4] Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 75 Ames Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(3)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 75 Ames Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.
(4)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 75 Ames Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [3] Department of
Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [4] Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [5] Department of
Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, 2-11-16 Yayoi Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan [2] JST, PRESTO 
2-11-16 Yayoi Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The University 
of Tokyo, 2-11-16 Yayoi Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2015 May 21;58(4):560-2.
    Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):560-2.
    Nat Methods. 2015 Feb;12(2):102-3.

Systematic interrogation of gene function requires the ability to perturb gene
expression in a robust and generalizable manner. Here we describe
structure-guided engineering of a CRISPR-Cas9 complex to mediate efficient
transcriptional activation at endogenous genomic loci. We used these engineered
Cas9 activation complexes to investigate single-guide RNA (sgRNA) targeting rules
for effective transcriptional activation, to demonstrate multiplexed activation
of ten genes simultaneously, and to upregulate long intergenic non-coding RNA
(lincRNA) transcripts. We also synthesized a library consisting of 70,290 guides 
targeting all human RefSeq coding isoforms to screen for genes that, upon
activation, confer resistance to a BRAF inhibitor. The top hits included genes
previously shown to be able to confer resistance, and novel candidates were
validated using individual sgRNA and complementary DNA overexpression. A gene
expression signature based on the top screening hits correlated with markers of
BRAF inhibitor resistance in cell lines and patient-derived samples. These
results collectively demonstrate the potential of Cas9-based activators as a
powerful genetic perturbation technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14136 
PMCID: PMC4420636
PMID: 25494202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):612-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13967. Epub 2014 Nov 24.

Interception of host angiogenic signalling limits mycobacterial growth.

Oehlers SH(1), Cronan MR(1), Scott NR(1), Thomas MI(1), Okuda KS(2), Walton
EM(1), Beerman RW(1), Crosier PS(2), Tobin DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Center for Microbial
Pathogenesis, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, The University of Auckland,
Auckland 1023, New Zealand.

Pathogenic mycobacteria induce the formation of complex cellular aggregates
called granulomas that are the hallmark of tuberculosis. Here we examine the
development and consequences of vascularization of the tuberculous granuloma in
the zebrafish-Mycobacterium marinum infection model, which is characterized by
organized granulomas with necrotic cores that bear striking resemblance to those 
of human tuberculosis. Using intravital microscopy in the transparent larval
zebrafish, we show that granuloma formation is intimately associated with
angiogenesis. The initiation of angiogenesis in turn coincides with the
generation of local hypoxia and transcriptional induction of the canonical
pro-angiogenic molecule Vegfaa. Pharmacological inhibition of the Vegf pathway
suppresses granuloma-associated angiogenesis, reduces infection burden and limits
dissemination. Moreover, anti-angiogenic therapies synergize with the first-line 
anti-tubercular antibiotic rifampicin, as well as with the antibiotic
metronidazole, which targets hypoxic bacterial populations. Our data indicate
that mycobacteria induce granuloma-associated angiogenesis, which promotes
mycobacterial growth and increases spread of infection to new tissue sites. We
propose the use of anti-angiogenic agents, now being used in cancer regimens, as 
a host-targeting tuberculosis therapy, particularly in extensively drug-resistant
disease for which current antibiotic regimens are largely ineffective.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13967 
PMCID: PMC4312197
PMID: 25470057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):635-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13886. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Uncovering the polymerase-induced cytotoxicity of an oxidized nucleotide.

Freudenthal BD(1), Beard WA(1), Perera L(1), Shock DD(1), Kim T(2), Schlick T(2),
Wilson SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, National Institutes of Health, PO Box 12233, Research Triangle Park,
North Carolina 27709-2233, USA.
(2)1] Department of Chemistry, New York University, and NYU-ECNU Center for
Computational Chemistry at NYU Shanghai, 10th Floor Silver Center, 100 Washington
Square East, New York, New York 10003, USA [2] Courant Institute of Mathematical 
Sciences, New York University, 251 Mercer Street, New York, New York 10012, USA.

Oxidative stress promotes genomic instability and human diseases. A common
oxidized nucleoside is 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine, which is found both
in DNA (8-oxo-G) and as a free nucleotide (8-oxo-dGTP). Nucleotide pools are
especially vulnerable to oxidative damage. Therefore cells encode an enzyme
(MutT/MTH1) that removes free oxidized nucleotides. This cleansing function is
required for cancer cell survival and to modulate Escherichia coli antibiotic
sensitivity in a DNA polymerase (pol)-dependent manner. How polymerases
discriminate between damaged and non-damaged nucleotides is not well understood. 
This analysis is essential given the role of oxidized nucleotides in mutagenesis,
cancer therapeutics, and bacterial antibiotics. Even with cellular sanitizing
activities, nucleotide pools contain enough 8-oxo-dGTP to promote mutagenesis.
This arises from the dual coding potential where 8-oxo-dGTP(anti) base pairs with
cytosine and 8-oxo-dGTP(syn) uses its Hoogsteen edge to base pair with adenine.
Here we use time-lapse crystallography to follow 8-oxo-dGTP insertion opposite
adenine or cytosine with human pol β, to reveal that insertion is accommodated in
either the syn- or anti-conformation, respectively. For 8-oxo-dGTP(anti)
insertion, a novel divalent metal relieves repulsive interactions between the
adducted guanine base and the triphosphate of the oxidized nucleotide. With
either templating base, hydrogen-bonding interactions between the bases are lost 
as the enzyme reopens after catalysis, leading to a cytotoxic nicked DNA repair
intermediate. Combining structural snapshots with kinetic and computational
analysis reveals how 8-oxo-dGTP uses charge modulation during insertion that can 
lead to a blocked DNA repair intermediate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13886 
PMCID: PMC4312183
PMID: 25409153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):626-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13910. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

IAPP-driven metabolic reprogramming induces regression of p53-deficient tumours
in vivo.

Venkatanarayan A(1), Raulji P(2), Norton W(3), Chakravarti D(1), Coarfa C(4), Su 
X(5), Sandur SK(6), Ramirez MS(7), Lee J(7), Kingsley CV(7), Sananikone EF(1),
Rajapakshe K(4), Naff K(3), Parker-Thornburg J(8), Bankson JA(7), Tsai KY(9),
Gunaratne PH(10), Flores ER(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2]
Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3]
Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson
Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [4] Metastasis 
Research Center, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515
Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(2)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2]
Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, 1
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(5)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2]
Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3]
Metastasis Research Center, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(6)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2]
Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3]
Metastasis Research Center, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [4] Radiation Biology &Health 
Sciences Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Center, Mumbai 400085, India.
(7)Department of Imaging Physics, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer
Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(8)Department of Genetics, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center,
1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(9)1] Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas
M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA
[2] Department of Dermatology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer
Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(10)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Houston, Houston, Texas
77204, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2015 Jan;15(1):4-5.

TP53 is commonly altered in human cancer, and Tp53 reactivation suppresses
tumours in vivo in mice (TP53 and Tp53 are also known as p53). This strategy has 
proven difficult to implement therapeutically, and here we examine an alternative
strategy by manipulating the p53 family members, Tp63 and Tp73 (also known as p63
and p73, respectively). The acidic transactivation-domain-bearing (TA) isoforms
of p63 and p73 structurally and functionally resemble p53, whereas the ΔN
isoforms (lacking the acidic transactivation domain) of p63 and p73 are
frequently overexpressed in cancer and act primarily in a dominant-negative
fashion against p53, TAp63 and TAp73 to inhibit their tumour-suppressive
functions. The p53 family interacts extensively in cellular processes that
promote tumour suppression, such as apoptosis and autophagy, thus a clear
understanding of this interplay in cancer is needed to treat tumours with
alterations in the p53 pathway. Here we show that deletion of the ΔN isoforms of 
p63 or p73 leads to metabolic reprogramming and regression of p53-deficient
tumours through upregulation of IAPP, the gene that encodes amylin, a
37-amino-acid peptide co-secreted with insulin by the β cells of the pancreas. We
found that IAPP is causally involved in this tumour regression and that amylin
functions through the calcitonin receptor (CalcR) and receptor activity modifying
protein 3 (RAMP3) to inhibit glycolysis and induce reactive oxygen species and
apoptosis. Pramlintide, a synthetic analogue of amylin that is currently used to 
treat type 1 and type 2 diabetes, caused rapid tumour regression in p53-deficient
thymic lymphomas, representing a novel strategy to target p53-deficient cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13910 
PMCID: PMC4312210
PMID: 25409149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):631-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13911. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

The mitotic checkpoint complex binds a second CDC20 to inhibit active APC/C.

Izawa D(1), Pines J(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Gurdon Institute and Department of Zoology, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge
CB2 1QN, UK.

The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) maintains genomic stability by delaying
chromosome segregation until the last chromosome has attached to the mitotic
spindle. The SAC prevents the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C)
ubiquitin ligase from recognizing cyclin B and securin by catalysing the
incorporation of the APC/C co-activator, CDC20, into a complex called the mitotic
checkpoint complex (MCC). The SAC works through unattached kinetochores
generating a diffusible 'wait anaphase' signal that inhibits the APC/C in the
cytoplasm, but the nature of this signal remains a key unsolved problem.
Moreover, the SAC and the APC/C are highly responsive to each other: the APC/C
quickly targets cyclin B and securin once all the chromosomes attach in
metaphase, but is rapidly inhibited should kinetochore attachment be perturbed.
How this is achieved is also unknown. Here, we show that the MCC can inhibit a
second CDC20 that has already bound and activated the APC/C. We show how the MCC 
inhibits active APC/C and that this is essential for the SAC. Moreover, this
mechanism can prevent anaphase in the absence of kinetochore signalling. Thus, we
propose that the diffusible 'wait anaphase' signal could be the MCC itself, and
explain how reactivating the SAC can rapidly inhibit active APC/C.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13911 
PMCID: PMC4312099
PMID: 25383541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):616-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13903. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

p63(+)Krt5(+) distal airway stem cells are essential for lung regeneration.

Zuo W(1), Zhang T(1), Wu DZ(1), Guan SP(1), Liew AA(1), Yamamoto Y(2), Wang X(2),
Lim SJ(1), Vincent M(3), Lessard M(4), Crum CP(5), Xian W(6), McKeon F(7).

Author information: 
(1)Genome Institute of Singapore, A-STAR, 138672 Singapore.
(2)The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, Farmington, Connecticut 06032,
USA.
(3)Advanced Cell Technologies, Marlborough, Massachusetts 01752, USA.
(4)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine 04609, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(6)1] Genome Institute of Singapore, A-STAR, 138672 Singapore [2] The Jackson
Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, Farmington, Connecticut 06032, USA [3]
Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4] Department of Medicine, National University 
Health System, 119228 Singapore [5] Department of Genetics and Developmental
Biology, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, Connecticut 06030, 
USA.
(7)1] Genome Institute of Singapore, A-STAR, 138672 Singapore [2] The Jackson
Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, Farmington, Connecticut 06032, USA [3]
Department of Medicine, National University Health System, 119228 Singapore.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):556-7.
    Nat Biotechnol. 2015 Feb;33(2):152-4.

Lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pulmonary
fibrosis involve the progressive and inexorable destruction of oxygen exchange
surfaces and airways, and have emerged as a leading cause of death worldwide.
Mitigating therapies, aside from impractical organ transplantation, remain
limited and the possibility of regenerative medicine has lacked empirical
support. However, it is clinically known that patients who survive sudden,
massive loss of lung tissue from necrotizing pneumonia or acute respiratory
distress syndrome often recover full pulmonary function within six months.
Correspondingly, we recently demonstrated lung regeneration in mice following
H1N1 influenza virus infection, and linked distal airway stem cells expressing
Trp63 (p63) and keratin 5, called DASC(p63/Krt5), to this process. Here we show
that pre-existing, intrinsically committed DASC(p63/Krt5) undergo a proliferative
expansion in response to influenza-induced lung damage, and assemble into nascent
alveoli at sites of interstitial lung inflammation. We also show that the
selective ablation of DASC(p63/Krt5) in vivo prevents this regeneration, leading 
to pre-fibrotic lesions and deficient oxygen exchange. Finally, we demonstrate
that single DASC(p63/Krt5)-derived pedigrees differentiate to type I and type II 
pneumocytes as well as bronchiolar secretory cells following transplantation to
infected lung and also minimize the structural consequences of endogenous stem
cell loss on this process. The ability to propagate these cells in culture while 
maintaining their intrinsic lineage commitment suggests their potential in stem
cell-based therapies for acute and chronic lung diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13903 
PMID: 25383540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13907. Epub 2014 Nov 10.

Resolving the complexity of the human genome using single-molecule sequencing.

Chaisson MJ(1), Huddleston J(2), Dennis MY(1), Sudmant PH(1), Malig M(1),
Hormozdiari F(1), Antonacci F(3), Surti U(4), Sandstrom R(1), Boitano M(5),
Landolin JM(5), Stamatoyannopoulos JA(1), Hunkapiller MW(5), Korlach J(5),
Eichler EE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(2)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(3)Dipartimento di Biologia, Università degli Studi di Bari 'Aldo Moro', Bari
70125, Italy.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15261, USA.
(5)Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc., Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.

The human genome is arguably the most complete mammalian reference assembly, yet 
more than 160 euchromatic gaps remain and aspects of its structural variation
remain poorly understood ten years after its completion. To identify missing
sequence and genetic variation, here we sequence and analyse a haploid human
genome (CHM1) using single-molecule, real-time DNA sequencing. We close or extend
55% of the remaining interstitial gaps in the human GRCh37 reference genome--78% 
of which carried long runs of degenerate short tandem repeats, often several
kilobases in length, embedded within (G+C)-rich genomic regions. We resolve the
complete sequence of 26,079 euchromatic structural variants at the base-pair
level, including inversions, complex insertions and long tracts of tandem
repeats. Most have not been previously reported, with the greatest increases in
sensitivity occurring for events less than 5 kilobases in size. Compared to the
human reference, we find a significant insertional bias (3:1) in regions
corresponding to complex insertions and long short tandem repeats. Our results
suggest a greater complexity of the human genome in the form of variation of
longer and more complex repetitive DNA that can now be largely resolved with the 
application of this longer-read sequencing technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13907 
PMCID: PMC4317254
PMID: 25383537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Nature. 2015 Jan 29;517(7536):640-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13899. Epub 2014 Nov 10.

Structural insight into autoinhibition and histone H3-induced activation of
DNMT3A.

Guo X(1), Wang L(1), Li J(2), Ding Z(3), Xiao J(2), Yin X(2), He S(2), Shi P(4), 
Dong L(5), Li G(6), Tian C(4), Wang J(7), Cong Y(3), Xu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, 
Shanghai Medical College of Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China [2] State
Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200433, China.
(2)Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Institute of Biomedical Sciences,
Shanghai Medical College of Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)National Center for Protein Science Shanghai, State Key Laboratory of
Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031,
China.
(4)1] High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, 
China [2] National Laboratory for Physical Science at the Microscale, University 
of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China [3] School of Life
Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China.
(5)1] National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese 
Academy of Science, Beijing 100101, China [2] University of Chinese Academy of
Science, Beijing 100049, China.
(6)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Science, Beijing 100101, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane Biotechnology, School of Life
Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

DNA methylation is an important epigenetic modification that is essential for
various developmental processes through regulating gene expression, genomic
imprinting, and epigenetic inheritance. Mammalian genomic DNA methylation is
established during embryogenesis by de novo DNA methyltransferases, DNMT3A and
DNMT3B, and the methylation patterns vary with developmental stages and cell
types. DNA methyltransferase 3-like protein (DNMT3L) is a catalytically inactive 
paralogue of DNMT3 enzymes, which stimulates the enzymatic activity of Dnmt3a.
Recent studies have established a connection between DNA methylation and histone 
modifications, and revealed a histone-guided mechanism for the establishment of
DNA methylation. The ATRX-DNMT3-DNMT3L (ADD) domain of Dnmt3a recognizes
unmethylated histone H3 (H3K4me0). The histone H3 tail stimulates the enzymatic
activity of Dnmt3a in vitro, whereas the molecular mechanism remains elusive.
Here we show that DNMT3A exists in an autoinhibitory form and that the histone H3
tail stimulates its activity in a DNMT3L-independent manner. We determine the
crystal structures of DNMT3A-DNMT3L (autoinhibitory form) and DNMT3A-DNMT3L-H3
(active form) complexes at 3.82 and 2.90 Å resolution, respectively. Structural
and biochemical analyses indicate that the ADD domain of DNMT3A interacts with
and inhibits enzymatic activity of the catalytic domain (CD) through blocking its
DNA-binding affinity. Histone H3 (but not H3K4me3) disrupts ADD-CD interaction,
induces a large movement of the ADD domain, and thus releases the autoinhibition 
of DNMT3A. The finding adds another layer of regulation of DNA methylation to
ensure that the enzyme is mainly activated at proper targeting loci when
unmethylated H3K4 is present, and strongly supports a negative correlation
between H3K4me3 and DNA methylation across the mammalian genome. Our study
provides a new insight into an unexpected autoinhibition and histone H3-induced
activation of the de novo DNA methyltransferase after its initial genomic
positioning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13899 
PMID: 25383530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):466-71. doi: 10.1038/nature14097. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

Meikin is a conserved regulator of meiosis-I-specific kinetochore function.

Kim J(1), Ishiguro K(1), Nambu A(1), Akiyoshi B(1), Yokobayashi S(1), Kagami
A(1), Ishiguro T(1), Pendas AM(2), Takeda N(3), Sakakibara Y(4), Kitajima TS(4), 
Tanno Y(1), Sakuno T(1), Watanabe Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chromosome Dynamics, Institute of Molecular and Cellular
Biosciences, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1Yayoi, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.
(2)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (CSIC-USAL), 37007
Salamanca, Spain.
(3)Center for Animal Resources and Development, Kumamoto University, 2-2-1 Honjo,
Kumamoto 860-0811 Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Chromosome Segregation, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology,
2-2-3 Minatojima-Minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2018 Oct 1;:.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):441-2.

The kinetochore is the crucial apparatus regulating chromosome segregation in
mitosis and meiosis. Particularly in meiosis I, unlike in mitosis, sister
kinetochores are captured by microtubules emanating from the same spindle pole
(mono-orientation) and centromeric cohesion mediated by cohesin is protected in
the following anaphase. Although meiotic kinetochore factors have been identified
only in budding and fission yeasts, these molecules and their functions are
thought to have diverged earlier. Therefore, a conserved mechanism for meiotic
kinetochore regulation remains elusive. Here we have identified in mouse a
meiosis-specific kinetochore factor that we termed MEIKIN, which functions in
meiosis I but not in meiosis II or mitosis. MEIKIN plays a crucial role in both
mono-orientation and centromeric cohesion protection, partly by stabilizing the
localization of the cohesin protector shugoshin. These functions are mediated
mainly by the activity of Polo-like kinase PLK1, which is enriched to
kinetochores in a MEIKIN-dependent manner. Our integrative analysis indicates
that the long-awaited key regulator of meiotic kinetochore function is Meikin,
which is conserved from yeasts to humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14097 
PMID: 25533956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):493-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14064. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Endophilin-A2 functions in membrane scission in clathrin-independent endocytosis.

Renard HF(1), Simunovic M(2), Lemière J(3), Boucrot E(4), Garcia-Castillo MD(1), 
Arumugam S(1), Chambon V(1), Lamaze C(5), Wunder C(1), Kenworthy AK(6), Schmidt
AA(7), McMahon HT(8), Sykes C(9), Bassereau P(10), Johannes L(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut Curie - Centre de Recherche, Endocytic Trafficking and Therapeutic
Delivery group, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris Cedex 05, France [2] CNRS UMR3666,
75005 Paris, France [3] U1143 INSERM, 75005 Paris, France.
(2)1] Institut Curie - Centre de Recherche, Membrane and Cell Functions group,
CNRS UMR 168, Physico-Chimie Curie, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 26 rue
d'Ulm, 75248 Paris Cedex 05, France [2] The University of Chicago, Department of 
Chemistry, 5735 S Ellis Ave, Chicago, Ilinois 60637, USA.
(3)1] Institut Curie - Centre de Recherche, Biomimetism of Cell Movement group,
CNRS UMR 168, Physico-Chimie Curie, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 26 rue
d'Ulm, 75248 Paris Cedex 05, France [2] Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris 
Cité, 75205 Paris, France.
(4)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London
&Birkbeck College, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(5)1] CNRS UMR3666, 75005 Paris, France [2] U1143 INSERM, 75005 Paris, France [3]
Institut Curie - Centre de Recherche, Membrane Dynamics and Mechanics of
Intracellular Signaling group, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris Cedex 05, France.
(6)Vanderbilt School of Medicine, Department of Molecular Physiology and
Biophysics, 718 Light Hall, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(7)CNRS, UMR7592, Institut Jacques Monod, Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne
Paris Cité, 15 rue Hélène Brion, 75205 Paris Cedex 13, France.
(8)Medical Research Council, Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge
Biomedical Campus, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK.
(9)Institut Curie - Centre de Recherche, Biomimetism of Cell Movement group, CNRS
UMR 168, Physico-Chimie Curie, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm,
75248 Paris Cedex 05, France.
(10)Institut Curie - Centre de Recherche, Membrane and Cell Functions group, CNRS
UMR 168, Physico-Chimie Curie, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 26 rue d'Ulm,
75248 Paris Cedex 05, France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2015 Feb;16(2):68.
    Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):446-7.

During endocytosis, energy is invested to narrow the necks of cargo-containing
plasma membrane invaginations to radii at which the opposing segments
spontaneously coalesce, thereby leading to the detachment by scission of
endocytic uptake carriers. In the clathrin pathway, dynamin uses mechanical
energy from GTP hydrolysis to this effect, assisted by the BIN/amphiphysin/Rvs
(BAR) domain-containing protein endophilin. Clathrin-independent endocytic events
are often less reliant on dynamin, and whether in these cases BAR domain proteins
such as endophilin contribute to scission has remained unexplored. Here we show, 
in human and other mammalian cell lines, that endophilin-A2 (endoA2) specifically
and functionally associates with very early uptake structures that are induced by
the bacterial Shiga and cholera toxins, which are both clathrin-independent
endocytic cargoes. In controlled in vitro systems, endoA2 reshapes membranes
before scission. Furthermore, we demonstrate that endoA2, dynamin and actin
contribute in parallel to the scission of Shiga-toxin-induced tubules. Our
results establish a novel function of endoA2 in clathrin-independent endocytosis.
They document that distinct scission factors operate in an additive manner, and
predict that specificity within a given uptake process arises from defined
combinations of universal modules. Our findings highlight a previously unnoticed 
link between membrane scaffolding by endoA2 and pulling-force-driven dynamic
scission.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14064 
PMCID: PMC4342003
PMID: 25517096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):460-5. doi: 10.1038/nature14067. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Endophilin marks and controls a clathrin-independent endocytic pathway.

Boucrot E(1), Ferreira AP(2), Almeida-Souza L(3), Debard S(4), Vallis Y(3),
Howard G(3), Bertot L(5), Sauvonnet N(5), McMahon HT(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge CB2
0QH, UK [2] Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College
London &Birkbeck College, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(2)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London
&Birkbeck College, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(3)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge CB2 0QH, 
UK.
(4)1] Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, University College London
&Birkbeck College, London WC1E 6BT, UK [2] Department of Biology, Ecole Normale
Supérieure de Cachan, 94235 Cachan, France.
(5)Institut Pasteur, Unité de Pathogenie Moleculaire Microbienne, 28 rue du
Docteur Roux, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2015 Feb;16(2):68.
    Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):446-7.

Endocytosis is required for internalization of micronutrients and turnover of
membrane components. Endophilin has been assigned as a component of
clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Here we show in mammalian cells that endophilin
marks and controls a fast-acting tubulovesicular endocytic pathway that is
independent of AP2 and clathrin, activated upon ligand binding to cargo
receptors, inhibited by inhibitors of dynamin, Rac, phosphatidylinositol-3-OH
kinase, PAK1 and actin polymerization, and activated upon Cdc42 inhibition. This 
pathway is prominent at the leading edges of cells where
phosphatidylinositol-3,4-bisphosphate-produced by the dephosphorylation of
phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-triphosphate by SHIP1 and SHIP2-recruits lamellipodin,
which in turn engages endophilin. This pathway mediates the ligand-triggered
uptake of several G-protein-coupled receptors such as α2a- and β1-adrenergic,
dopaminergic D3 and D4 receptors and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor 4, the
receptor tyrosine kinases EGFR, HGFR, VEGFR, PDGFR, NGFR and IGF1R, as well as
interleukin-2 receptor. We call this new endocytic route fast endophilin-mediated
endocytosis (FEME).

DOI: 10.1038/nature14067 
PMID: 25517094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):485-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13866. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

A basal ichthyosauriform with a short snout from the Lower Triassic of China.

Motani R(1), Jiang DY(2), Chen GB(3), Tintori A(4), Rieppel O(5), Ji C(6), Huang 
JD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Davis,
One Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(2)1] Laboratory of Orogenic Belt and Crustal Evolution, Ministry of Education,
and Department of Geology and Geological Museum, Peking University, Yiheyuan
Street 5, Beijing 100871, China [2] State Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology and
Stratigraphy (Nanjing Institute of Geology and Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of 
Science), Nanjing 210008, China.
(3)Department of Research, Anhui Geological Museum, Jiahe Road 999, Hefei, Anhui 
230031, China.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienze della Terra, Università degli Studi di Milano, Via
Mangiagalli, 34-20133 Milan, Italy.
(5)Center of Integrative Research, The Field Museum, Chicago, Illinois
60605-2496, USA.
(6)Key Laboratory of Economic Stratigraphy and Palaeogeography, Nanjing Institute
of Geology and Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 39 East Beijing Road, 
Nanjing 210008, China.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Nov 26;527(7579):544.

The incompleteness of the fossil record obscures the origin of many of the more
derived clades of vertebrates. One such group is the Ichthyopterygia, a clade of 
obligatory marine reptiles that appeared in the Early Triassic epoch, without any
known intermediates. Here we describe a basal ichthyosauriform from the upper
Lower Triassic (about 248 million years ago) of China, whose primitive skeleton
indicates possible amphibious habits. It is smaller than ichthyopterygians and
had unusually large flippers that probably allowed limited terrestrial
locomotion. It also retained characteristics of terrestrial diapsid reptiles,
including a short snout and body trunk. Unlike more-derived ichthyosauriforms, it
was probably a suction feeder. The new species supports the sister-group
relationships between ichthyosauriforms and Hupehsuchia, the two forming the
Ichthyosauromorpha. Basal ichthyosauromorphs are known exclusively from south
China, suggesting that the clade originated in the region, which formed a warm
and humid tropical archipelago in the Early Triassic. The oldest unequivocal
record of a sauropterygian is also from the same stratigraphic unit of the
region.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13866 
PMID: 25383536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):497-500. doi: 10.1038/nature13896. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

mTORC1-mediated translational elongation limits intestinal tumour initiation and 
growth.

Faller WJ(1), Jackson TJ(#)(2), Knight JR(#)(2), Ridgway RA(1), Jamieson T(1),
Karim SA(1), Jones C(2), Radulescu S(1), Huels DJ(1), Myant KB(1), Dudek KM(2),
Casey HA(1), Scopelliti A(1), Cordero JB(1), Vidal M(1), Pende M(3), Ryazanov
AG(4), Sonenberg N(5), Meyuhas O(6), Hall MN(7), Bushell M(2), Willis AE(2),
Sansom OJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Beatson Institute, Glasgow, G61 1BD, UK.
(2)Medical Research Council Toxicology Unit; Leicester, LE1 9HN, UK.
(3)Inserm U845, Université Paris Descartes, Necker Medical School, 75015 Paris,
France.
(4)Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Department of Pharmacology, Piscataway,
New Jersey, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Goodman Cancer Research Center, McGill
University, Montreal, QC H3A 1A3, Canada.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, IMRIC, The Hebrew
University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem 91120, Israel.
(7)Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2015 Jan;14(1):14-5.

Inactivation of APC is a strongly predisposing event in the development of
colorectal cancer, prompting the search for vulnerabilities specific to cells
that have lost APC function. Signalling through the mTOR pathway is known to be
required for epithelial cell proliferation and tumour growth, and the current
paradigm suggests that a critical function of mTOR activity is to upregulate
translational initiation through phosphorylation of 4EBP1 (refs 6, 7). This model
predicts that the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, which does not efficiently inhibit
4EBP1 (ref. 8), would be ineffective in limiting cancer progression in
APC-deficient lesions. Here we show in mice that mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) activity
is absolutely required for the proliferation of Apc-deficient (but not wild-type)
enterocytes, revealing an unexpected opportunity for therapeutic intervention.
Although APC-deficient cells show the expected increases in protein synthesis,
our study reveals that it is translation elongation, and not initiation, which is
the rate-limiting component. Mechanistically, mTORC1-mediated inhibition of eEF2 
kinase is required for the proliferation of APC-deficient cells. Importantly,
treatment of established APC-deficient adenomas with rapamycin (which can target 
eEF2 through the mTORC1-S6K-eEF2K axis) causes tumour cells to undergo growth
arrest and differentiation. Taken together, our data suggest that inhibition of
translation elongation using existing, clinically approved drugs, such as the
rapalogs, would provide clear therapeutic benefit for patients at high risk of
developing colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13896 
PMCID: PMC4304784
PMID: 25383520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):501-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13868. Epub 2014 Nov 2.

IgG1 protects against renal disease in a mouse model of cryoglobulinaemia.

Strait RT(1), Posgai MT(2), Mahler A(3), Barasa N(3), Jacob CO(4), Köhl J(5),
Ehlers M(6), Stringer K(7), Shanmukhappa SK(7), Witte D(7), Hossain MM(8),
Khodoun M(9), Herr AB(10), Finkelman FD(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Emergency Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2] Department of Pediatrics, University of
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio 45267, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics, Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio 45267, USA.
(3)Division of Emergency Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.
(5)1] Division of Immunobiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2] Institute for Systemic Inflammation Research,
University of Lübeck, 23538 Lübeck, Germany.
(6)Institute for Systemic Inflammation Research, University of Lübeck, 23538
Lübeck, Germany.
(7)Division of Pathology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(8)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(9)Division of Immunology, Allergy and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine,
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio 45267, USA.
(10)1] Department of Molecular Genetics, Biochemistry and Microbiology,
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio 45267, USA [2]
Division of Immunobiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(11)1] Division of Immunobiology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2] Division of Immunology, Allergy and Rheumatology,
Department of Medicine, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati,
Ohio 45267, USA [3] Medical Service, Cincinnati Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45220, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Oct 29;526(7575):728.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Nephrol. 2015 Jan;11(1):1.

Immunoglobulins protect against disease to a considerable extent by activating
complement and stimulatory immunoglobulin crystallizable fragment receptors (Ig
FcRs), and aggregating microbial pathogens. Yet IgG1, the predominant murine
serum Ig isotype, cannot activate complement by the classical pathway, binds more
avidly to an inhibitory than to stimulatory FcRs, and has limited ability to
aggregate pathogens. In these regards, it resembles human IgG4 (ref. 4). We
hypothesized that limited ability to activate effector mechanisms might protect
against immune complex immunopathology. Here we show that IgG1-deficient (γ1(-)) 
mice, immunized with a potent antigen, develop lethal renal disease soon after
they begin to produce antigen-specific antibody, whereas similarly immunized
wild-type mice remain healthy. Surprisingly, renal disease in this model is
complement and FcR independent and results from immune complex precipitation in
glomerular capillaries, as in some cryoglobulinaemic humans. IgG3, which
self-associates to form large immune complexes, accounts for more than 97% of the
mouse Ig in this cryoglobulin; furthermore, glomerular disease develops when mice
are injected with IgG3 anti-trinitrophenyl (TNP) monoclonal antibody followed by 
a TNP-labelled protein. Renal disease is prevented in both active and passive
immunization models by antigen-specific IgG1; other isotypes are less potent at
preventing disease. These observations demonstrate the adaptive significance of
Ig isotypes that poorly activate effector mechanisms, reveal an
immune-complex-dependent, complement- and FcR-independent nephrotoxic mechanism, 
and suggest that isotypes that poorly activate effector mechanisms may be useful 
for inhibiting immune complex immunopathology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13868 
PMCID: PMC4342786
PMID: 25363774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):509-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13888. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

Structure and mechanism of the tRNA-dependent lantibiotic dehydratase NisB.

Ortega MA(1), Hao Y(1), Zhang Q(2), Walker MC(2), van der Donk WA(3), Nair SK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600
South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600 South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801,
USA.
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600
South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600 
South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(4)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600
South Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2] Center for Biophysics and
Computational Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 600 South
Mathews Avenue, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Lantibiotics are a class of peptide antibiotics that contain one or more
thioether bonds. The lantibiotic nisin is an antimicrobial peptide that is widely
used as a food preservative to combat food-borne pathogens. Nisin contains
dehydroalanine and dehydrobutyrine residues that are formed by the dehydration of
Ser/Thr by the lantibiotic dehydratase NisB (ref. 2). Recent biochemical studies 
revealed that NisB glutamylates Ser/Thr side chains as part of the dehydration
process. However, the molecular mechanism by which NisB uses glutamate to
catalyse dehydration remains unresolved. Here we show that this process involves 
glutamyl-tRNA(Glu) to activate Ser/Thr residues. In addition, the 2.9-Å crystal
structure of NisB in complex with its substrate peptide NisA reveals the presence
of two separate domains that catalyse the Ser/Thr glutamylation and glutamate
elimination steps. The co-crystal structure also provides insights into substrate
recognition by lantibiotic dehydratases. Our findings demonstrate an unexpected
role for aminoacyl-tRNA in the formation of dehydroamino acids in lantibiotics,
and serve as a basis for the functional characterization of the many
lantibiotic-like dehydratases involved in the biosynthesis of other classes of
natural products.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13888 
PMCID: PMC4430201
PMID: 25363770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):489-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13898. Epub 2014 Nov 2.

The mutational landscapes of genetic and chemical models of Kras-driven lung
cancer.

Westcott PM(1), Halliwill KD(1), To MD(2), Rashid M(3), Rust AG(3), Keane TM(3), 
Delrosario R(2), Jen KY(4), Gurley KE(5), Kemp CJ(5), Fredlund E(6), Quigley
DA(2), Adams DJ(3), Balmain A(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California
San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of
Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(2)Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(3)Experimental Cancer Genetics, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1HH, UK.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(5)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(6)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska
Institute, Stockholm 171 21, Sweden.
(7)1] Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California
San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of
Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Next-generation sequencing of human tumours has refined our understanding of the 
mutational processes operative in cancer initiation and progression, yet major
questions remain regarding the factors that induce driver mutations and the
processes that shape mutation selection during tumorigenesis. Here we performed
whole-exome sequencing on adenomas from three mouse models of non-small-cell lung
cancer, which were induced either by exposure to carcinogens (methyl-nitrosourea 
(MNU) and urethane) or by genetic activation of Kras (Kras(LA2)). Although the
MNU-induced tumours carried exactly the same initiating mutation in Kras as seen 
in the Kras(LA2) model (G12D), MNU tumours had an average of 192 non-synonymous, 
somatic single-nucleotide variants, compared with only six in tumours from the
Kras(LA2) model. By contrast, the Kras(LA2) tumours exhibited a significantly
higher level of aneuploidy and copy number alterations compared with the
carcinogen-induced tumours, suggesting that carcinogen-induced and genetically
engineered models lead to tumour development through different routes. The
wild-type allele of Kras has been shown to act as a tumour suppressor in mouse
models of non-small-cell lung cancer. We demonstrate that urethane-induced
tumours from wild-type mice carry mostly (94%) Kras Q61R mutations, whereas those
from Kras heterozygous animals carry mostly (92%) Kras Q61L mutations, indicating
a major role for germline Kras status in mutation selection during initiation.
The exome-wide mutation spectra in carcinogen-induced tumours overwhelmingly
display signatures of the initiating carcinogen, while adenocarcinomas acquire
additional C > T mutations at CpG sites. These data provide a basis for
understanding results from human tumour genome sequencing, which has identified
two broad categories of tumours based on the relative frequency of
single-nucleotide variations and copy number alterations, and underline the
importance of carcinogen models for understanding the complex mutation spectra
seen in human cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13898 
PMCID: PMC4304785
PMID: 25363767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):505-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13838. Epub 2014 Nov 2.

Structure of the immature HIV-1 capsid in intact virus particles at 8.8 Å
resolution.

Schur FK(1), Hagen WJ(2), Rumlová M(3), Ruml T(4), Müller B(5), Kräusslich HG(5),
Briggs JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Structural and Computational Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany [2] Molecular Medicine
Partnership Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory/Universitätsklinikum
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Structural and Computational Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)1] Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry (IOCB), Academy of Sciences
of the Czech Republic, v.v.i., IOCB &Gilead Research Center, Flemingovo nám. 2,
166 10 Prague, Czech Republic [2] Department of Biotechnology, Institute of
Chemical Technology, Prague, Technická 5, 166 28, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, Institute of Chemical Technology,
Prague, Technická 5, 166 28, Prague, Czech Republic.
(5)1] Molecular Medicine Partnership Unit, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory/Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany [2] Department of
Infectious Diseases, Virology, Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 324, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) assembly proceeds in two stages.
First, the 55 kilodalton viral Gag polyprotein assembles into a hexameric protein
lattice at the plasma membrane of the infected cell, inducing budding and release
of an immature particle. Second, Gag is cleaved by the viral protease, leading to
internal rearrangement of the virus into the mature, infectious form. Immature
and mature HIV-1 particles are heterogeneous in size and morphology, preventing
high-resolution analysis of their protein arrangement in situ by conventional
structural biology methods. Here we apply cryo-electron tomography and
sub-tomogram averaging methods to resolve the structure of the capsid lattice
within intact immature HIV-1 particles at subnanometre resolution, allowing
unambiguous positioning of all α-helices. The resulting model reveals tertiary
and quaternary structural interactions that mediate HIV-1 assembly. Strikingly,
these interactions differ from those predicted by the current model based on in
vitro-assembled arrays of Gag-derived proteins from Mason-Pfizer monkey virus. To
validate this difference, we solve the structure of the capsid lattice within
intact immature Mason-Pfizer monkey virus particles. Comparison with the immature
HIV-1 structure reveals that retroviral capsid proteins, while having conserved
tertiary structures, adopt different quaternary arrangements during virus
assembly. The approach demonstrated here should be applicable to determine
structures of other proteins at subnanometre resolution within heterogeneous
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13838 
PMID: 25363765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Nature. 2015 Jan 22;517(7535):513-516. doi: 10.1038/nature13901. Epub 2014 Oct
19.

Reductive dehalogenase structure suggests a mechanism for B12-dependent
dehalogenation.

Payne KA(#)(1), Quezada CP(#)(1), Fisher K(1), Dunstan MS(1), Collins FA(1),
Sjuts H(1), Levy C(1), Hay S(1), Rigby SE(1), Leys D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Institute for Biotechnology, University of Manchester, Princess
Street 131 M1 7DN Manchester, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Organohalide chemistry underpins many industrial and agricultural processes, and 
a large proportion of environmental pollutants are organohalides. Nevertheless,
organohalide chemistry is not exclusively of anthropogenic origin, with natural
abiotic and biological processes contributing to the global halide cycle.
Reductive dehalogenases are responsible for biological dehalogenation in
organohalide respiring bacteria, with substrates including polychlorinated
biphenyls or dioxins. Reductive dehalogenases form a distinct subfamily of
cobalamin (B12)-dependent enzymes that are usually membrane associated and oxygen
sensitive, hindering detailed studies. Here we report the characterization of a
soluble, oxygen-tolerant reductive dehalogenase and, by combining structure
determination with EPR (electron paramagnetic resonance) spectroscopy and
simulation, show that a direct interaction between the cobalamin cobalt and the
substrate halogen underpins catalysis. In contrast to the carbon-cobalt bond
chemistry catalysed by the other cobalamin-dependent subfamilies, we propose that
reductive dehalogenases achieve reduction of the organohalide substrate via
halogen-cobalt bond formation. This presents a new model in both organohalide and
cobalamin (bio)chemistry that will guide future exploitation of these enzymes in 
bioremediation or biocatalysis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13901 
PMCID: PMC4968649
PMID: 25327251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):333-8. doi: 10.1038/nature14045. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

Internal models direct dragonfly interception steering.

Mischiati M(1), Lin HT(1), Herold P(1), Imler E(2), Olberg R(3), Leonardo A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute; 19700 Helix Drive,
Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.
(2)University of Arizona, Department of Neuroscience, 1040 E. 4th Street, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA.
(3)Union College, 807 Union Street, Schenectady, New York 12308, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):279-80.

Sensorimotor control in vertebrates relies on internal models. When extending an 
arm to reach for an object, the brain uses predictive models of both limb
dynamics and target properties. Whether invertebrates use such models remains
unclear. Here we examine to what extent prey interception by dragonflies
(Plathemis lydia), a behaviour analogous to targeted reaching, requires internal 
models. By simultaneously tracking the position and orientation of a dragonfly's 
head and body during flight, we provide evidence that interception steering is
driven by forward and inverse models of dragonfly body dynamics and by models of 
prey motion. Predictive rotations of the dragonfly's head continuously track the 
prey's angular position. The head-body angles established by prey tracking appear
to guide systematic rotations of the dragonfly's body to align it with the prey's
flight path. Model-driven control thus underlies the bulk of interception
steering manoeuvres, while vision is used for reactions to unexpected prey
movements. These findings illuminate the computational sophistication with which 
insects construct behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14045 
PMID: 25487153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):327-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13997. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

The African Genome Variation Project shapes medical genetics in Africa.

Gurdasani D(1), Carstensen T(1), Tekola-Ayele F(2), Pagani L(3), Tachmazidou
I(4), Hatzikotoulas K(4), Karthikeyan S(1), Iles L(5), Pollard MO(4), Choudhury
A(6), Ritchie GR(7), Xue Y(4), Asimit J(4), Nsubuga RN(8), Young EH(1), Pomilla
C(1), Kivinen K(4), Rockett K(9), Kamali A(8), Doumatey AP(2), Asiki G(8), Seeley
J(8), Sisay-Joof F(10), Jallow M(10), Tollman S(11), Mekonnen E(12), Ekong R(13),
Oljira T(14), Bradman N(15), Bojang K(10), Ramsay M(16), Adeyemo A(2), Bekele
E(17), Motala A(18), Norris SA(19), Pirie F(18), Kaleebu P(8), Kwiatkowski D(20),
Tyler-Smith C(4), Rotimi C(2), Zeggini E(4), Sandhu MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SA, UK [2] Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of
Cambridge, 2 Wort's Causeway, Cambridge, CB1 8RN, UK.
(2)Centre for Research on Genomics and Global Health, National Human Genome
Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, 12 South Drive, MSC 5635,
Bethesda, Maryland 20891-5635, USA.
(3)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SA, UK [2] Department of Biological, Geological and Environmental Sciences,
University of Bologna, Via Selmi 3, 40126 Bologna, Italy.
(4)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA,
UK.
(5)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SA, UK [2] Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of
Cambridge, 2 Wort's Causeway, Cambridge, CB1 8RN, UK [3] Department of
Archaeology, University of York, King's Manor, York YO1 7EP, UK.
(6)Sydney Brenner Institute of Molecular Bioscience (SBIMB), University of the
Witwatersrand, The Mount, 9 Jubilee Road, Parktown 2193, Johannesburg, Gauteng,
South Africa.
(7)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SA, UK [2] Vertebrate Genomics, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European 
Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SD, UK.
(8)Medical Research Council/Uganda Virus Research Institute, Plot 51-57 Nakiwogo 
Road, Uganda.
(9)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt
Drive, Headington, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.
(10)Medical Research Council Unit, Atlantic Boulevard, SerrekundaPO Box 273,
Banjul, The Gambia.
(11)1] Medical Research Council/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions
Unit, School of Public Health, Education Campus, 27 St Andrew's Road, Parktown
2192, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa [2] INDEPTH Network, 38/40 Mensah Wood 
Street, East Legon, PO Box KD 213, Kanda, Accra, Ghana.
(12)Institute of Biotechnology, Addis Ababa University, Entoto Avenue, Arat Kilo,
16087 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(13)Department of Genetics Evolution and Environment, University College, London,
Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(14)University of Haramaya, Department of Biology, PO Box 138, Dire Dawa,
Ethiopia.
(15)Henry Stewart Group, 28/30 Little Russell Street, London WC1A 2HN, UK.
(16)1] Sydney Brenner Institute of Molecular Bioscience (SBIMB), University of
the Witwatersrand, The Mount, 9 Jubilee Road, Parktown 2193, Johannesburg,
Gauteng, South Africa [2] Division of Human Genetics, National Health Laboratory 
Service, C/O Hospital and de Korte Streets, Braamfontein 2000, Johannesburg,
South Africa [3] School of Pathology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of
the Witwatersrand, Braamfontein 2000, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(17)Department of Microbial, Cellular and Molecular Biology, College of Natural
Sciences, Arat Kilo Campus, Addis Ababa University, PO Box 1176, Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia.
(18)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, University of KwaZulu-Natal, 719
Umbilo Road, Congella, Durban 4013, South Africa.
(19)Department of Paediatrics, University of Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, Parktown
2198, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa.
(20)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SA, UK [2] Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford,
Roosevelt Drive, Headington, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2015 Feb;16(2):68-9.
    Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):276-7.

Given the importance of Africa to studies of human origins and disease
susceptibility, detailed characterization of African genetic diversity is needed.
The African Genome Variation Project provides a resource with which to design,
implement and interpret genomic studies in sub-Saharan Africa and worldwide. The 
African Genome Variation Project represents dense genotypes from 1,481
individuals and whole-genome sequences from 320 individuals across sub-Saharan
Africa. Using this resource, we find novel evidence of complex, regionally
distinct hunter-gatherer and Eurasian admixture across sub-Saharan Africa. We
identify new loci under selection, including loci related to malaria
susceptibility and hypertension. We show that modern imputation panels (sets of
reference genotypes from which unobserved or missing genotypes in study sets can 
be inferred) can identify association signals at highly differentiated loci
across populations in sub-Saharan Africa. Using whole-genome sequencing, we
demonstrate further improvements in imputation accuracy, strengthening the case
for large-scale sequencing efforts of diverse African haplotypes. Finally, we
present an efficient genotype array design capturing common genetic variation in 
Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13997 
PMCID: PMC4297536
PMID: 25470054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):391-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13887. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

An ERK/Cdk5 axis controls the diabetogenic actions of PPARγ.

Banks AS(1), McAllister FE(2), Camporez JP(3), Zushin PJ(1), Jurczak MJ(3),
Laznik-Bogoslavski D(4), Shulman GI(3), Gygi SP(2), Spiegelman BM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Hypertension, Brigham and Women's
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(3)Yale Mouse Metabolic Phenotyping Center and Departments of Internal Medicine
and Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.
(4)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Obesity-linked insulin resistance is a major precursor to the development of
type 2 diabetes. Previous work has shown that phosphorylation of PPARγ
(peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ) at serine 273 by cyclin-dependent 
kinase 5 (Cdk5) stimulates diabetogenic gene expression in adipose tissues.
Inhibition of this modification is a key therapeutic mechanism for anti-diabetic 
drugs that bind PPARγ, such as the thiazolidinediones and PPARγ partial agonists 
or non-agonists. For a better understanding of the importance of this
obesity-linked PPARγ phosphorylation, we created mice that ablated Cdk5
specifically in adipose tissues. These mice have both a paradoxical increase in
PPARγ phosphorylation at serine 273 and worsened insulin resistance. Unbiased
proteomic studies show that extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinases
are activated in these knockout animals. Here we show that ERK directly
phosphorylates serine 273 of PPARγ in a robust manner and that Cdk5 suppresses
ERKs through direct action on a novel site in MAP kinase/ERK kinase (MEK).
Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of MEK and ERK markedly improves insulin 
resistance in both obese wild-type and ob/ob mice, and also completely reverses
the deleterious effects of the Cdk5 ablation. These data show that an ERK/Cdk5
axis controls PPARγ function and suggest that MEK/ERK inhibitors may hold promise
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13887 
PMCID: PMC4297557
PMID: 25409143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):373-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13873. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

The neural representation of taste quality at the periphery.

Barretto RP(1), Gillis-Smith S(1), Chandrashekar J(2), Yarmolinsky DA(1),
Schnitzer MJ(3), Ryba NJ(4), Zuker CS(5).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Departments of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biophysics and of Neuroscience, Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York 10032, USA.
(2)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147, USA.
(3)James H. Clark Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(5)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Departments of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biophysics and of Neuroscience, Columbia College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York 10032, USA [2] Janelia Farm Research
Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jan;16(1):4.

The mammalian taste system is responsible for sensing and responding to the five 
basic taste qualities: sweet, sour, bitter, salty and umami. Previously, we
showed that each taste is detected by dedicated taste receptor cells (TRCs) on
the tongue and palate epithelium. To understand how TRCs transmit information to 
higher neural centres, we examined the tuning properties of large ensembles of
neurons in the first neural station of the gustatory system. Here, we generated
and characterized a collection of transgenic mice expressing a genetically
encoded calcium indicator in central and peripheral neurons, and used a gradient 
refractive index microendoscope combined with high-resolution two-photon
microscopy to image taste responses from ganglion neurons buried deep at the base
of the brain. Our results reveal fine selectivity in the taste preference of
ganglion neurons; demonstrate a strong match between TRCs in the tongue and the
principal neural afferents relaying taste information to the brain; and expose
the highly specific transfer of taste information between taste cells and the
central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13873 
PMCID: PMC4297533
PMID: 25383521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):377-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13853. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

Control of plant stem cell function by conserved interacting transcriptional
regulators.

Zhou Y(1), Liu X(1), Engstrom EM(2), Nimchuk ZL(3), Pruneda-Paz JL(4), Tarr
PT(1), Yan A(1), Kay SA(5), Meyerowitz EM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East California 
Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(2)Biology Department, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia
23187-8795, USA.
(3)1] Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East California Boulevard,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(4)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, Division of Biological Sciences,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(5)University of Southern California, Molecular and Computational Biology,
Department of Biological Sciences, Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters,
Arts and Sciences, Los Angeles, California 90089, USA.

Plant stem cells in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and root apical meristem are 
necessary for postembryonic development of aboveground tissues and roots,
respectively, while secondary vascular stem cells sustain vascular development.
WUSCHEL (WUS), a homeodomain transcription factor expressed in the rib meristem
of the Arabidopsis SAM, is a key regulatory factor controlling SAM stem cell
populations, and is thought to establish the shoot stem cell niche through a
feedback circuit involving the CLAVATA3 (CLV3) peptide signalling pathway.
WUSCHEL-RELATED HOMEOBOX 5 (WOX5), which is specifically expressed in the root
quiescent centre, defines quiescent centre identity and functions interchangeably
with WUS in the control of shoot and root stem cell niches. WOX4, expressed in
Arabidopsis procambial cells, defines the vascular stem cell niche. WUS/WOX
family proteins are evolutionarily and functionally conserved throughout the
plant kingdom and emerge as key actors in the specification and maintenance of
stem cells within all meristems. However, the nature of the genetic regime in
stem cell niches that centre on WOX gene function has been elusive, and molecular
links underlying conserved WUS/WOX function in stem cell niches remain unknown.
Here we demonstrate that the Arabidopsis HAIRY MERISTEM (HAM) family of
transcription regulators act as conserved interacting cofactors with WUS/WOX
proteins. HAM and WUS share common targets in vivo and their physical interaction
is important in driving downstream transcriptional programs and in promoting
shoot stem cell proliferation. Differences in the overlapping expression patterns
of WOX and HAM family members underlie the formation of diverse stem cell niche
locations, and the HAM family is essential for all of these stem cell niches.
These findings establish a new framework for the control of stem cell production 
during plant development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13853 
PMCID: PMC4297503
PMID: 25363783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):369-72. doi: 10.1038/nature13827. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

Long-term phenotypic evolution of bacteria.

Plata G(1), Henry CS(2), Vitkup D(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Systems Biology, Center for Computational Biology and
Bioinformatics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Integrated
Program in Cellular, Molecular, Structural and Genetic Studies, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(2)Mathemathics and Computer Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory,
Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA.
(3)1] Department of Systems Biology, Center for Computational Biology and
Bioinformatics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department
of Biomedical Informatics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

For many decades comparative analyses of protein sequences and structures have
been used to investigate fundamental principles of molecular evolution. In
contrast, relatively little is known about the long-term evolution of species'
phenotypic and genetic properties. This represents an important gap in our
understanding of evolution, as exactly these proprieties play key roles in
natural selection and adaptation to diverse environments. Here we perform a
comparative analysis of bacterial growth and gene deletion phenotypes using
hundreds of genome-scale metabolic models. Overall, bacterial phenotypic
evolution can be described by a two-stage process with a rapid initial phenotypic
diversification followed by a slow long-term exponential divergence. The observed
average divergence trend, with approximately similar fractions of phenotypic
properties changing per unit time, continues for billions of years. We
experimentally confirm the predicted divergence trend using the phenotypic
profiles of 40 diverse bacterial species across more than 60 growth conditions.
Our analysis suggests that, at long evolutionary distances, gene essentiality is 
significantly more conserved than the ability to utilize different nutrients,
while synthetic lethality is significantly less conserved. We also find that
although a rapid phenotypic evolution is sometimes observed within the same
species, a transition from high to low phenotypic similarity occurs primarily at 
the genus level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13827 
PMID: 25363780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):360-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13864. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Promoterless gene targeting without nucleases ameliorates haemophilia B in mice.

Barzel A(1), Paulk NK(1), Shi Y(2), Huang Y(1), Chu K(1), Zhang F(1), Valdmanis
PN(1), Spector LP(1), Porteus MH(3), Gaensler KM(2), Kay MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and Genetics, 269 Campus Drive, CCSR Building, Room 
2105, Stanford, California 94305-5164, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Box 1270, UCSF, San Francisco, California 94143-1270, 
USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, 269 Campus Drive, Lorry Lokey Stem Cell Research
Building, Room G3045, Stanford, California 94305-5164, USA.

Comment in
    Mol Ther. 2015 Jan;23(1):4-6.

Site-specific gene addition can allow stable transgene expression for gene
therapy. When possible, this is preferred over the use of promiscuously
integrating vectors, which are sometimes associated with clonal expansion and
oncogenesis. Site-specific endonucleases that can induce high rates of targeted
genome editing are finding increasing applications in biological discovery and
gene therapy. However, two safety concerns persist: endonuclease-associated
adverse effects, both on-target and off-target; and oncogene activation caused by
promoter integration, even without nucleases. Here we perform recombinant
adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated promoterless gene targeting without
nucleases and demonstrate amelioration of the bleeding diathesis in haemophilia B
mice. In particular, we target a promoterless human coagulation factor IX (F9)
gene to the liver-expressed mouse albumin (Alb) locus. F9 is targeted, along with
a preceding 2A-peptide coding sequence, to be integrated just upstream to the Alb
stop codon. While F9 is fused to Alb at the DNA and RNA levels, two separate
proteins are synthesized by way of ribosomal skipping. Thus, F9 expression is
linked to robust hepatic albumin expression without disrupting it. We injected an
AAV8-F9 vector into neonatal and adult mice and achieved on-target integration
into ∼0.5% of the albumin alleles in hepatocytes. We established that F9 was
produced only from on-target integration, and ribosomal skipping was highly
efficient. Stable F9 plasma levels at 7-20% of normal were obtained, and treated 
F9-deficient mice had normal coagulation times. In conclusion, transgene
integration as a 2A-fusion to a highly expressed endogenous gene may obviate the 
requirement for nucleases and/or vector-borne promoters. This method may allow
for safe and efficacious gene targeting in both infants and adults by greatly
diminishing off-target effects while still providing therapeutic levels of
expression from integration.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13864 
PMCID: PMC4297598
PMID: 25363772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):386-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13848. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

CEACAM1 regulates TIM-3-mediated tolerance and exhaustion.

Huang YH(1), Zhu C(2), Kondo Y(1), Anderson AC(2), Gandhi A(1), Russell A(3),
Dougan SK(4), Petersen BS(5), Melum E(6), Pertel T(2), Clayton KL(7), Raab M(8), 
Chen Q(9), Beauchemin N(10), Yazaki PJ(11), Pyzik M(1), Ostrowski MA(12),
Glickman JN(13), Rudd CE(8), Ploegh HL(4), Franke A(5), Petsko GA(3), Kuchroo
VK(2), Blumberg RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(2)Evergrande Center for Immunologic Diseases, Harvard Medical School and Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Institutes of Medicine, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)Rosenstiel Basic Medical Sciences Research Center, Brandeis University, 415
South Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.
(4)Whitehead Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(5)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrechts-University of
Kiel, Kiel 24105, Germany.
(6)1] Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA [2] Norwegian PSC Research Center, Division of Cancer Medicine, Surgery and
Transplantation, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo 0424, Norway.
(7)Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S1A8,
Canada.
(8)Cell Signalling Section, Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 1QP, UK.
(9)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
Chengdu 610041, China.
(10)Goodman Cancer Research Centre, McGill University, Montreal H3G 1Y6, Canada.
(11)Beckman Institute, City of Hope, Duarte, California 91010, USA.
(12)1] Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S1A8, 
Canada [2] Keenan Research Centre of St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario
M5S1A8, Canada.
(13)GI Pathology, Miraca Life Sciences, Newton, Massachusetts 02464, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 Aug 18;536(7616):359.

T-cell immunoglobulin domain and mucin domain-3 (TIM-3, also known as HAVCR2) is 
an activation-induced inhibitory molecule involved in tolerance and shown to
induce T-cell exhaustion in chronic viral infection and cancers. Under some
conditions, TIM-3 expression has also been shown to be stimulatory. Considering
that TIM-3, like cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed death 1
(PD-1), is being targeted for cancer immunotherapy, it is important to identify
the circumstances under which TIM-3 can inhibit and activate T-cell responses.
Here we show that TIM-3 is co-expressed and forms a heterodimer with
carcinoembryonic antigen cell adhesion molecule 1 (CEACAM1), another well-known
molecule expressed on activated T cells and involved in T-cell inhibition.
Biochemical, biophysical and X-ray crystallography studies show that the
membrane-distal immunoglobulin-variable (IgV)-like amino-terminal domain of each 
is crucial to these interactions. The presence of CEACAM1 endows TIM-3 with
inhibitory function. CEACAM1 facilitates the maturation and cell surface
expression of TIM-3 by forming a heterodimeric interaction in cis through the
highly related membrane-distal N-terminal domains of each molecule. CEACAM1 and
TIM-3 also bind in trans through their N-terminal domains. Both cis and trans
interactions between CEACAM1 and TIM-3 determine the tolerance-inducing function 
of TIM-3. In a mouse adoptive transfer colitis model, CEACAM1-deficient T cells
are hyper-inflammatory with reduced cell surface expression of TIM-3 and
regulatory cytokines, and this is restored by T-cell-specific CEACAM1 expression.
During chronic viral infection and in a tumour environment, CEACAM1 and TIM-3
mark exhausted T cells. Co-blockade of CEACAM1 and TIM-3 leads to enhancement of 
anti-tumour immune responses with improved elimination of tumours in mouse
colorectal cancer models. Thus, CEACAM1 serves as a heterophilic ligand for TIM-3
that is required for its ability to mediate T-cell inhibition, and this
interaction has a crucial role in regulating autoimmunity and anti-tumour
immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13848 
PMCID: PMC4297519
PMID: 25363763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):396-400. doi: 10.1038/nature13872. Epub 2014 Nov 2.

Subnanometre-resolution electron cryomicroscopy structure of a heterodimeric ABC 
exporter.

Kim J(1), Wu S(2), Tomasiak TM(2), Mergel C(3), Winter MB(1), Stiller SB(3),
Robles-Colmanares Y(2), Stroud RM(4), Tampé R(5), Craik CS(1), Cheng Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of California San
Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California San
Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry, Biocenter, Goethe-University Frankfurt,
Max-von-Laue-Strasse 9, D-60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(4)1] Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, University of California San
Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department
of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California San Francisco, 600 16th 
Street, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(5)1] Institute of Biochemistry, Biocenter, Goethe-University Frankfurt,
Max-von-Laue-Strasse 9, D-60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany [2] Cluster of
Excellence - Macromolecular Complexes, Goethe-University Frankfurt,
Max-von-Laue-Strasse 9, D-60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters translocate substrates across cell
membranes, using energy harnessed from ATP binding and hydrolysis at their
nucleotide-binding domains. ABC exporters are present both in prokaryotes and
eukaryotes, with examples implicated in multidrug resistance of pathogens and
cancer cells, as well as in many human diseases. TmrAB is a heterodimeric ABC
exporter from the thermophilic Gram-negative eubacterium Thermus thermophilus; it
is homologous to various multidrug transporters and contains one degenerate site 
with a non-catalytic residue next to the Walker B motif. Here we report a
subnanometre-resolution structure of detergent-solubilized TmrAB in a
nucleotide-free, inward-facing conformation by single-particle electron
cryomicroscopy. The reconstructions clearly resolve characteristic features of
ABC transporters, including helices in the transmembrane domain and
nucleotide-binding domains. A cavity in the transmembrane domain is accessible
laterally from the cytoplasmic side of the membrane as well as from the
cytoplasm, indicating that the transporter lies in an inward-facing open
conformation. The two nucleotide-binding domains remain in contact via their
carboxy-terminal helices. Furthermore, comparison between our structure and the
crystal structures of other ABC transporters suggests a possible trajectory of
conformational changes that involves a sliding and rotating motion between the
two nucleotide-binding domains during the transition from the inward-facing to
outward-facing conformations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13872 
PMCID: PMC4372080
PMID: 25363761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Nature. 2015 Jan 15;517(7534):365-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13809. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Productivity limits and potentials of the principles of conservation agriculture.

Pittelkow CM(1), Liang X(2), Linquist BA(1), van Groenigen KJ(3), Lee J(4), Lundy
ME(1), van Gestel N(3), Six J(4), Venterea RT(5), van Kessel C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis, California
95616, USA.
(2)College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China.
(3)Center for Ecosystem Science and Society, Northern Arizona University,
Flagstaff, Arizona 86011, USA.
(4)Department of Environmental Systems Science, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology, ETH-Zurich, Zurich 8092, Switzerland.
(5)1] United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service,
Soil and Water Management Unit, St Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA [2] Department of
Soil, Water, and Climate, University of Minnesota, St Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.

One of the primary challenges of our time is to feed a growing and more demanding
world population with reduced external inputs and minimal environmental impacts, 
all under more variable and extreme climate conditions in the future.
Conservation agriculture represents a set of three crop management principles
that has received strong international support to help address this challenge,
with recent conservation agriculture efforts focusing on smallholder farming
systems in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. However, conservation agriculture
is highly debated, with respect to both its effects on crop yields and its
applicability in different farming contexts. Here we conduct a global
meta-analysis using 5,463 paired yield observations from 610 studies to compare
no-till, the original and central concept of conservation agriculture, with
conventional tillage practices across 48 crops and 63 countries. Overall, our
results show that no-till reduces yields, yet this response is variable and under
certain conditions no-till can produce equivalent or greater yields than
conventional tillage. Importantly, when no-till is combined with the other two
conservation agriculture principles of residue retention and crop rotation, its
negative impacts are minimized. Moreover, no-till in combination with the other
two principles significantly increases rainfed crop productivity in dry climates,
suggesting that it may become an important climate-change adaptation strategy for
ever-drier regions of the world. However, any expansion of conservation
agriculture should be done with caution in these areas, as implementation of the 
other two principles is often challenging in resource-poor and vulnerable
smallholder farming systems, thereby increasing the likelihood of yield losses
rather than gains. Although farming systems are multifunctional, and
environmental and socio-economic factors need to be considered, our analysis
indicates that the potential contribution of no-till to the sustainable
intensification of agriculture is more limited than often assumed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13809 
PMID: 25337882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):191-5. doi: 10.1038/nature14111. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Segmented lateral dyke growth in a rifting event at Bárðarbunga volcanic system, 
Iceland.

Sigmundsson F(1), Hooper A(2), Hreinsdóttir S(3), Vogfjörd KS(4), Ófeigsson
BG(4), Heimisson ER(1), Dumont S(1), Parks M(1), Spaans K(2), Gudmundsson GB(4), 
Drouin V(1), Árnadóttir T(1), Jónsdóttir K(4), Gudmundsson MT(1), Högnadóttir
T(1), Fridriksdóttir HM(5), Hensch M(4), Einarsson P(1), Magnússon E(1), Samsonov
S(6), Brandsdóttir B(1), White RS(7), Ágústsdóttir T(7), Greenfield T(7), Green
RG(7), Hjartardóttir ÁR(1), Pedersen R(1), Bennett RA(8), Geirsson H(9), La
Femina PC(9), Björnsson H(1), Pálsson F(1), Sturkell E(10), Bean CJ(11), Möllhoff
M(11), Braiden AK(11), Eibl EP(11).

Author information: 
(1)Nordic Volcanological Center, Institute of Earth Sciences, University of
Iceland, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland.
(2)Centre for the Observation and Modelling of Earthquakes and Tectonics (COMET),
School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(3)GNS Science, PO Box 30368, Lower Hutt 5040, New Zealand.
(4)Icelandic Meteorological Office, IS-150 Reykjavík, Iceland.
(5)1] Nordic Volcanological Center, Institute of Earth Sciences, University of
Iceland, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland [2] Icelandic Meteorological Office, IS-150
Reykjavík, Iceland.
(6)Canada Centre for Mapping and Earth Observation, Natural Resources Canada, 560
Rochester Street, Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0E4, Canada.
(7)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road,
Cambridge CB3 0EZ, UK.
(8)Department of Geosciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(9)Department of Geosciences, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(10)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Gothenburg, SE-405 30 Gothenburg,
Sweden.
(11)Seismology Laboratory, School of Geological Sciences, University College
Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland.

Crust at many divergent plate boundaries forms primarily by the injection of
vertical sheet-like dykes, some tens of kilometres long. Previous models of
rifting events indicate either lateral dyke growth away from a feeding source,
with propagation rates decreasing as the dyke lengthens, or magma flowing
vertically into dykes from an underlying source, with the role of topography on
the evolution of lateral dykes not clear. Here we show how a recent segmented
dyke intrusion in the Bárðarbunga volcanic system grew laterally for more than
45 kilometres at a variable rate, with topography influencing the direction of
propagation. Barriers at the ends of each segment were overcome by the build-up
of pressure in the dyke end; then a new segment formed and dyke lengthening
temporarily peaked. The dyke evolution, which occurred primarily over 14 days,
was revealed by propagating seismicity, ground deformation mapped by Global
Positioning System (GPS), interferometric analysis of satellite radar images
(InSAR), and graben formation. The strike of the dyke segments varies from an
initially radial direction away from the Bárðarbunga caldera, towards alignment
with that expected from regional stress at the distal end. A model minimizing the
combined strain and gravitational potential energy explains the propagation path.
Dyke opening and seismicity focused at the most distal segment at any given time,
and were simultaneous with magma source deflation and slow collapse at the
Bárðarbunga caldera, accompanied by a series of magnitude M > 5 earthquakes. Dyke
growth was slowed down by an effusive fissure eruption near the end of the dyke. 
Lateral dyke growth with segment barrier breaking by pressure build-up in the
dyke distal end explains how focused upwelling of magma under central volcanoes
is effectively redistributed over long distances to create new upper crust at
divergent plate boundaries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14111 
PMID: 25517098 


66. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):227-30. doi: 10.1038/nature14043. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

The heat released during catalytic turnover enhances the diffusion of an enzyme.

Riedel C(1), Gabizon R(1), Wilson CA(2), Hamadani K(1), Tsekouras K(3), Marqusee 
S(4), Pressé S(5), Bustamante C(6).

Author information: 
(1)California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences, QB3, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(2)1] California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences, QB3, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Departamento de Bioquímica y
Biología Molecular, Facultad de Ciencias Químicas y Farmacéuticas, Universidad de
Chile, 1058 Santiago, Chile.
(3)Department of Physics, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis
(IUPUI), Indiana 46202, USA.
(4)1] California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences, QB3, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cell 
Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(5)1] Department of Physics, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis
(IUPUI), Indiana 46202, USA [2] Department of Cellular and Integrative
Physiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indiana 46202, USA.
(6)1] California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences, QB3, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cell 
Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Jason L.
Choy Laboratory of Single-Molecule Biophysics and Department of Physics,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [4] Department of
Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [5] Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA [6] Kavli Energy Nano Sciences Institute, University of California, Berkeley 
and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):149-50.

Recent studies have shown that the diffusivity of enzymes increases in a
substrate-dependent manner during catalysis. Although this observation has been
reported and characterized for several different systems, the precise origin of
this phenomenon is unknown. Calorimetric methods are often used to determine
enthalpies from enzyme-catalysed reactions and can therefore provide important
insight into their reaction mechanisms. The ensemble averages involved in
traditional bulk calorimetry cannot probe the transient effects that the energy
exchanged in a reaction may have on the catalyst. Here we obtain single-molecule 
fluorescence correlation spectroscopy data and analyse them within the framework 
of a stochastic theory to demonstrate a mechanistic link between the enhanced
diffusion of a single enzyme molecule and the heat released in the reaction. We
propose that the heat released during catalysis generates an asymmetric pressure 
wave that results in a differential stress at the protein-solvent interface that 
transiently displaces the centre-of-mass of the enzyme (chemoacoustic effect).
This novel perspective on how enzymes respond to the energy released during
catalysis suggests a possible effect of the heat of reaction on the structural
integrity and internal degrees of freedom of the enzyme.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14043 
PMCID: PMC4363105
PMID: 25487146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):159-64. doi: 10.1038/nature14031. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Three-dimensional head-direction coding in the bat brain.

Finkelstein A(1), Derdikman D(2), Rubin A(1), Foerster JN(1), Las L(1), Ulanovsky
N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel.
(2)1] Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel [2] Rappaport Faculty of Medicine and Research Institute, Technion -
Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 31096, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):156-7.

Navigation requires a sense of direction ('compass'), which in mammals is thought
to be provided by head-direction cells, neurons that discharge when the animal's 
head points to a specific azimuth. However, it remains unclear whether a
three-dimensional (3D) compass exists in the brain. Here we conducted neural
recordings in bats, mammals well-adapted to 3D spatial behaviours, and found
head-direction cells tuned to azimuth, pitch or roll, or to conjunctive
combinations of 3D angles, in both crawling and flying bats. Head-direction cells
were organized along a functional-anatomical gradient in the presubiculum,
transitioning from 2D to 3D representations. In inverted bats, the azimuth-tuning
of neurons shifted by 180°, suggesting that 3D head direction is represented in
azimuth × pitch toroidal coordinates. Consistent with our toroidal model,
pitch-cell tuning was unimodal, circular, and continuous within the available
360° of pitch. Taken together, these results demonstrate a 3D head-direction
mechanism in mammals, which could support navigation in 3D space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14031 
PMID: 25470055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):209-13. doi: 10.1038/nature14034. Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Blocking PGE2-induced tumour repopulation abrogates bladder cancer
chemoresistance.

Kurtova AV(1), Xiao J(2), Mo Q(3), Pazhanisamy S(4), Krasnow R(4), Lerner SP(4), 
Chen F(3), Roh TT(5), Lay E(4), Ho PL(4), Chan KS(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular &Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, One 
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Program in Translational Biology and 
Molecular Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 
77030, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular &Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, One
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(3)Dan L Duncan Cancer Center and Center for Cell Gene &Therapy, Baylor College
of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(5)1] Department of Molecular &Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, One 
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Summer Medical and Research Training 
(SMART) Program, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(6)1] Department of Molecular &Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, One 
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Program in Translational Biology and 
Molecular Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 
77030, USA [3] Dan L Duncan Cancer Center and Center for Cell Gene &Therapy,
Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [4] Scott
Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston,
Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):152-3.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2015 Feb;12(2):63.

Cytotoxic chemotherapy is effective in debulking tumour masses initially;
however, in some patients tumours become progressively unresponsive after
multiple treatment cycles. Previous studies have demonstrated that cancer stem
cells (CSCs) are selectively enriched after chemotherapy through enhanced
survival. Here we reveal a new mechanism by which bladder CSCs actively
contribute to therapeutic resistance via an unexpected proliferative response to 
repopulate residual tumours between chemotherapy cycles, using human bladder
cancer xenografts. Further analyses demonstrate the recruitment of a quiescent
label-retaining pool of CSCs into cell division in response to
chemotherapy-induced damages, similar to mobilization of normal stem cells during
wound repair. While chemotherapy effectively induces apoptosis, associated
prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) release paradoxically promotes neighbouring CSC
repopulation. This repopulation can be abrogated by a PGE2-neutralizing antibody 
and celecoxib drug-mediated blockade of PGE2 signalling. In vivo administration
of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) inhibitor celecoxib effectively abolishes a PGE2- 
and COX2-mediated wound response gene signature, and attenuates progressive
manifestation of chemoresistance in xenograft tumours, including primary
xenografts derived from a patient who was resistant to chemotherapy.
Collectively, these findings uncover a new underlying mechanism that models the
progressive development of clinical chemoresistance, and implicate an adjunctive 
therapy to enhance chemotherapeutic response of bladder urothelial carcinomas by 
abrogating early tumour repopulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14034 
PMCID: PMC4465385
PMID: 25470039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):200-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13871. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

Calcium transient prevalence across the dendritic arbour predicts place field
properties.

Sheffield ME(1), Dombeck DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Dec;15(12):766.

Establishing the hippocampal cellular ensemble that represents an animal's
environment involves the emergence and disappearance of place fields in specific 
CA1 pyramidal neurons, and the acquisition of different spatial firing properties
across the active population. While such firing flexibility and diversity have
been linked to spatial memory, attention and task performance, the cellular and
network origin of these place cell features is unknown. Basic integrate-and-fire 
models of place firing propose that such features result solely from varying
inputs to place cells, but recent studies suggest instead that place cells
themselves may play an active role through regenerative dendritic events.
However, owing to the difficulty of performing functional recordings from place
cell dendrites, no direct evidence of regenerative dendritic events exists,
leaving any possible connection to place coding unknown. Using multi-plane
two-photon calcium imaging of CA1 place cell somata, axons and dendrites in mice 
navigating a virtual environment, here we show that regenerative dendritic events
do exist in place cells of behaving mice, and, surprisingly, their prevalence
throughout the arbour is highly spatiotemporally variable. Furthermore, we show
that the prevalence of such events predicts the spatial precision and persistence
or disappearance of place fields. This suggests that the dynamics of spiking
throughout the dendritic arbour may play a key role in forming the hippocampal
representation of space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13871 
PMCID: PMC4289090
PMID: 25363782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13828. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Precision microbiome reconstitution restores bile acid mediated resistance to
Clostridium difficile.

Buffie CG(1), Bucci V(2), Stein RR(3), McKenney PT(1), Ling L(4), Gobourne A(4), 
No D(4), Liu H(5), Kinnebrew M(1), Viale A(6), Littmann E(4), van den Brink
MR(7), Jenq RR(8), Taur Y(1), Sander C(3), Cross JR(5), Toussaint NC(9), Xavier
JB(9), Pamer EG(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Infectious Diseases Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Lucille Castori Center
for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)1] Computational Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New
York 10065, USA [2] Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth,
North Dartmouth, Massachusetts 02747, USA.
(3)Computational Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York
10065, USA.
(4)Lucille Castori Center for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(5)Donald B. and Catherine C. Marron Cancer Metabolism Center, Sloan-Kettering
Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(6)Genomics Core Laboratory, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York 10065,
USA.
(7)1] Bone Marrow Transplant Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Immunology Program,
Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(8)Bone Marrow Transplant Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(9)1] Lucille Castori Center for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Computational
Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(10)1] Infectious Diseases Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Lucille Castori Center
for Microbes, Inflammation and Cancer, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
New York, New York 10065, USA [3] Immunology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, 
New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2015 Jan 6;21(1):9-10.
    Cell Host Microbe. 2014 Nov 12;16(5):551-2.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jan;12(1):4.
    Nat Biotechnol. 2015 Jan;33(1):47-9.

The gastrointestinal tracts of mammals are colonized by hundreds of microbial
species that contribute to health, including colonization resistance against
intestinal pathogens. Many antibiotics destroy intestinal microbial communities
and increase susceptibility to intestinal pathogens. Among these, Clostridium
difficile, a major cause of antibiotic-induced diarrhoea, greatly increases
morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients. Which intestinal bacteria
provide resistance to C. difficile infection and their in vivo inhibitory
mechanisms remain unclear. Here we correlate loss of specific bacterial taxa with
development of infection, by treating mice with different antibiotics that result
in distinct microbiota changes and lead to varied susceptibility to C. difficile.
Mathematical modelling augmented by analyses of the microbiota of hospitalized
patients identifies resistance-associated bacteria common to mice and humans.
Using these platforms, we determine that Clostridium scindens, a bile acid
7α-dehydroxylating intestinal bacterium, is associated with resistance to C.
difficile infection and, upon administration, enhances resistance to infection in
a secondary bile acid dependent fashion. Using a workflow involving mouse models,
clinical studies, metagenomic analyses, and mathematical modelling, we identify a
probiotic candidate that corrects a clinically relevant microbiome deficiency.
These findings have implications for the rational design of targeted
antimicrobials as well as microbiome-based diagnostics and therapeutics for
individuals at risk of C. difficile infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13828 
PMCID: PMC4354891
PMID: 25337874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):223-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13826. Epub 2014 Oct 19.

Allosteric activation of the RNF146 ubiquitin ligase by a poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation 
signal.

DaRosa PA(1), Wang Z(2), Jiang X(3), Pruneda JN(4), Cong F(3), Klevit RE(4), Xu
W(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(3)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Protein poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation (PARylation) has a role in diverse cellular
processes such as DNA repair, transcription, Wnt signalling, and cell death.
Recent studies have shown that PARylation can serve as a signal for the
polyubiquitination and degradation of several crucial regulatory proteins,
including Axin and 3BP2 (refs 7, 8, 9). The RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF146 
(also known as Iduna) is responsible for PARylation-dependent ubiquitination
(PARdU). Here we provide a structural basis for RNF146-catalysed PARdU and how
PARdU specificity is achieved. First, we show that iso-ADP-ribose (iso-ADPr), the
smallest internal poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) structural unit, binds between the WWE
and RING domains of RNF146 and functions as an allosteric signal that switches
the RING domain from a catalytically inactive state to an active one. In the
absence of PAR, the RING domain is unable to bind and activate a
ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) efficiently. Binding of PAR or iso-ADPr induces
a major conformational change that creates a functional RING structure. Thus,
RNF146 represents a new mechanistic class of RING E3 ligases, the activities of
which are regulated by non-covalent ligand binding, and that may provide a
template for designing inducible protein-degradation systems. Second, we find
that RNF146 directly interacts with the PAR polymerase tankyrase (TNKS).
Disruption of the RNF146-TNKS interaction inhibits turnover of the substrate Axin
in cells. Thus, both substrate PARylation and PARdU are catalysed by enzymes
within the same protein complex, and PARdU substrate specificity may be primarily
determined by the substrate-TNKS interaction. We propose that the maintenance of 
unliganded RNF146 in an inactive state may serve to maintain the stability of the
RNF146-TNKS complex, which in turn regulates the homeostasis of PARdU activity in
the cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13826 
PMCID: PMC4289021
PMID: 25327252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):196-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13825. Epub 2014 Oct 19.

Copulation in antiarch placoderms and the origin of gnathostome internal
fertilization.

Long JA(1), Mark-Kurik E(2), Johanson Z(3), Lee MS(4), Young GC(5), Min Z(6),
Ahlberg PE(7), Newman M(8), Jones R(9), den Blaauwen J(10), Choo B(11),
Trinajstic K(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] School of Biological Sciences, Flinders University, 2100, Adelaide, South
Australia 5001, Australia [2] Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, 900
Exposition Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 9007, USA [3] Museum Victoria, PO
Box 666, Melbourne, Victoria 3001, Australia.
(2)Institute of Geology at Tallinn University of Technology, Ehitajate tee 5,
19086 Tallinn, Estonia.
(3)Department of Earth Sciences, Natural History Museum, London SW7 5BD, UK.
(4)1] South Australian Museum, North Terrace, Adelaide, South Australia 5000,
Australia [2] School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, The University of
Adelaide, South Australia 5005, Australia.
(5)Research School of Earth Sciences, The Australian National University,
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia.
(6)Key Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of
Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, PO
Box 643, Beijing 100044, China.
(7)Department of Organismal Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala
University, Norbyvägen 18A, 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.
(8)Vine Lodge, Vine Road, Johnston, Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire SA62 3NZ, UK.
(9)6 Burghley Road, Wimbledon, London SW19 5BH, UK.
(10)University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098XH, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(11)School of Biological Sciences, Flinders University, 2100, Adelaide, South
Australia 5001, Australia.
(12)1] Western Australian Organic and Isotope Geochemistry Centre, Department of 
Chemistry, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia 6102, Australia [2] Earth 
and Planetary Sciences, Western Australian Museum, Perth, Western Australia 6000,
Australia.

Reproduction in jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) involves either external or
internal fertilization. It is commonly argued that internal fertilization can
evolve from external, but not the reverse. Male copulatory claspers are present
in certain placoderms, fossil jawed vertebrates retrieved as a paraphyletic
segment of the gnathostome stem group in recent studies. This suggests that
internal fertilization could be primitive for gnathostomes, but such a conclusion
depends on demonstrating that copulation was not just a specialized feature of
certain placoderm subgroups. The reproductive biology of antiarchs, consistently 
identified as the least crownward placoderms and thus of great interest in this
context, has until now remained unknown. Here we show that certain antiarchs
possessed dermal claspers in the males, while females bore paired dermal plates
inferred to have facilitated copulation. These structures are not associated with
pelvic fins. The clasper morphology resembles that of ptyctodonts, a more
crownward placoderm group, suggesting that all placoderm claspers are homologous 
and that internal fertilization characterized all placoderms. This implies that
external fertilization and spawning, which characterize most extant aquatic
gnathostomes, must be derived from internal fertilization, even though this
transformation has been thought implausible. Alternatively, the substantial
morphological evidence for placoderm paraphyly must be rejected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13825 
PMID: 25327249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Nature. 2015 Jan 8;517(7533):214-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13803. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

T-B-cell entanglement and ICOSL-driven feed-forward regulation of germinal centre
reaction.

Liu D(1), Xu H(1), Shih C(1), Wan Z(1), Ma X(2), Ma W(1), Luo D(1), Qi H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life Sciences, Laboratory of Dynamic Immunobiology,
School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, 100084 Beijing, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, 100084 Beijing, China.

The germinal centre (GC) reaction supports affinity-based B-cell competition and 
generates high-affinity bone-marrow plasma cells (BMPCs). How follicular T-helper
(TFH) cells regulate GC selection is not clear. Using competitive mixed chimaera,
we show here that, beyond the role in promoting TFH development, ICOSL (inducible
T-cell co-stimulator ligand, also known as ICOSLG) is important for individual B 
cells to competitively participate in the GC reaction and to develop into BMPCs. 
Using intravital imaging aided by a calcium reporter, we further show that ICOSL 
promotes an 'entangled' mode of TFH-B-cell interactions, characterized by brief
but extensive surface engagement, productive T-cell calcium spikes, and B-cell
acquisition of CD40 signals. Reiterated entanglement promotes outer-zone
co-localization of outcompeting GC B cells together with TFH cells, affording the
former increased access to T-cell help. ICOSL on GC B cells is upregulated by
CD40 signals. Such an intercellular positive feedback between contact-dependent
help and ICOSL-controlled entanglement promotes positive selection and BMPC
development, as evidenced by observations that higher-affinity B-cell receptor
variants are enriched in the ICOSL(high) fraction, that numerically disadvantaged
ICOSL-deficient GC B cells or BMPCs exhibit strong affinity compensation in
competitive chimaera, and that when GC competition proceeds without ICOSL,
selection of high-affinity variants in otherwise normal GC reactions is impaired.
By demonstrating entanglement as the basic form of GC TFH-B-cell interactions,
identifying ICOSL as a molecular linkage between T-B interactional dynamics and
positive selection for high-affinity BMPC formation, our study reveals a pathway 
by which TFH cells control the quality of long-lived humoral immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13803 
PMID: 25317561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):50-55. doi: 10.1038/nature14063. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Structure of the rabbit ryanodine receptor RyR1 at near-atomic resolution.

Yan Z(#)(1)(2)(3), Bai X(#)(4), Yan C(#)(2)(3), Wu J(2)(3), Li Z(1)(3), Xie
T(2)(3), Peng W(1)(3), Yin C(5), Li X(3), Scheres SHW(4), Shi Y(2)(3), Yan
N(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology,
Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences and
School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Tsinghua-Peking Joint
Center for Life Sciences, School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(3)Center for Structural Biology, Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences,
School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.
(4)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge
CB2 0QH, UK.
(5)Department of Biophysics, the Health Science Center & Center for Protein
Science, Peking University, Beijing 100191, China.
(#)Contributed equally

The ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are high-conductance intracellular Ca(2+) channels
that play a pivotal role in the excitation-contraction coupling of skeletal and
cardiac muscles. RyRs are the largest known ion channels, with a homotetrameric
organization and approximately 5,000 residues in each protomer. Here we report
the structure of the rabbit RyR1 in complex with its modulator FKBP12 at an
overall resolution of 3.8 Å, determined by single-particle electron
cryomicroscopy. Three previously uncharacterized domains, named central, handle
and helical domains, display the armadillo repeat fold. These domains, together
with the amino-terminal domain, constitute a network of superhelical scaffold for
binding and propagation of conformational changes. The channel domain exhibits
the voltage-gated ion channel superfamily fold with distinct features. A
negative-charge-enriched hairpin loop connecting S5 and the pore helix is
positioned above the entrance to the selectivity-filter vestibule. The four
elongated S6 segments form a right-handed helical bundle that closes the pore at 
the cytoplasmic border of the membrane. Allosteric regulation of the pore by the 
cytoplasmic domains is mediated through extensive interactions between the
central domains and the channel domain. These structural features explain high
ion conductance by RyRs and the long-range allosteric regulation of channel
activities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14063 
PMCID: PMC4338550
PMID: 25517095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):73-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14059. Epub 2014 Dec 15.

Strong and deep Atlantic meridional overturning circulation during the last
glacial cycle.

Böhm E(1), Lippold J(2), Gutjahr M(3), Frank M(4), Blaser P(1), Antz B(1),
Fohlmeister J(1), Frank N(1), Andersen MB(5), Deininger M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Physics, University of Heidelberg, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research, Institute of Geological Sciences,
University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(3)1] GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, 24148 Kiel, Germany [2]
National Oceanography Centre Southampton, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.
(4)GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, 24148 Kiel, Germany.
(5)Institute of Geochemistry and Petrology, ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):30-1.

Extreme, abrupt Northern Hemisphere climate oscillations during the last glacial 
cycle (140,000 years ago to present) were modulated by changes in ocean
circulation and atmospheric forcing. However, the variability of the Atlantic
meridional overturning circulation (AMOC), which has a role in controlling heat
transport from low to high latitudes and in ocean CO2 storage, is still poorly
constrained beyond the Last Glacial Maximum. Here we show that a deep and
vigorous overturning circulation mode has persisted for most of the last glacial 
cycle, dominating ocean circulation in the Atlantic, whereas a shallower glacial 
mode with southern-sourced waters filling the deep western North Atlantic
prevailed during glacial maxima. Our results are based on a reconstruction of
both the strength and the direction of the AMOC during the last glacial cycle
from a highly resolved marine sedimentary record in the deep western North
Atlantic. Parallel measurements of two independent chemical water tracers (the
isotope ratios of (231)Pa/(230)Th and (143)Nd/(144)Nd), which are not directly
affected by changes in the global cycle, reveal consistent responses of the AMOC 
during the last two glacial terminations. Any significant deviations from this
configuration, resulting in slowdowns of the AMOC, were restricted to
centennial-scale excursions during catastrophic iceberg discharges of the
Heinrich stadials. Severe and multicentennial weakening of North Atlantic Deep
Water formation occurred only during Heinrich stadials close to glacial maxima
with increased ice coverage, probably as a result of increased fresh-water input.
In contrast, the AMOC was relatively insensitive to submillennial meltwater
pulses during warmer climate states, and an active AMOC prevailed during
Dansgaard-Oeschger interstadials (Greenland warm periods).

DOI: 10.1038/nature14059 
PMID: 25517093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):60-3. doi: 10.1038/nature14088. Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Higher-than-predicted saltation threshold wind speeds on Titan.

Burr DM(1), Bridges NT(2), Marshall JR(3), Smith JK(4), White BR(5), Emery JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Earth and Planetary Sciences Department, University of Tennessee-Knoxville,
306 EPS Building, 1412 Circle Drive, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA.
(2)Space Department, Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel,
Maryland 20723, USA.
(3)SETI Institute, 189 Bernardo Avenue, Suite 100, Mountain View, California
94043, USA.
(4)Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287-1404, USA.
(5)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California Davis,
California 95616, USA.

Titan, the largest satellite of Saturn, exhibits extensive aeolian, that is,
wind-formed, dunes, features previously identified exclusively on Earth, Mars and
Venus. Wind tunnel data collected under ambient and planetary-analogue conditions
inform our models of aeolian processes on the terrestrial planets. However, the
accuracy of these widely used formulations in predicting the threshold wind
speeds required to move sand by saltation, or by short bounces, has not been
tested under conditions relevant for non-terrestrial planets. Here we derive
saltation threshold wind speeds under the thick-atmosphere, low-gravity and
low-sediment-density conditions on Titan, using a high-pressure wind tunnel
refurbished to simulate the appropriate kinematic viscosity for the near-surface 
atmosphere of Titan. The experimentally derived saltation threshold wind speeds
are higher than those predicted by models based on terrestrial-analogue
experiments, indicating the limitations of these models for such extreme
conditions. The models can be reconciled with the experimental results by
inclusion of the extremely low ratio of particle density to fluid density on
Titan. Whereas the density ratio term enables accurate modelling of aeolian
entrainment in thick atmospheres, such as those inferred for some extrasolar
planets, our results also indicate that for environments with high density
ratios, such as in jets on icy satellites or in tenuous atmospheres or
exospheres, the correction for low-density-ratio conditions is not required.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14088 
PMID: 25487154 


77. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):94-98. doi: 10.1038/nature14019. Epub 2014 Dec 10.

A PP1-PP2A phosphatase relay controls mitotic progression.

Grallert A(#)(1), Boke E(#)(1), Hagting A(2), Hodgson B(1), Connolly Y(3),
Griffiths JR(3), Smith DL(3), Pines J(2), Hagan IM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Division Group, CRUK Manchester Institute, University of Manchester,
Wilmslow Road, Manchester, M20 4BX, UK.
(2)The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(3)Biological Mass Spectrometry, CRUK Manchester Institute, University of
Manchester, Wilmslow Road, Manchester, M20 4BX, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):29-30.

The widespread reorganization of cellular architecture in mitosis is achieved
through extensive protein phosphorylation, driven by the coordinated activation
of a mitotic kinase network and repression of counteracting phosphatases.
Phosphatase activity must subsequently be restored to promote mitotic exit.
Although Cdc14 phosphatase drives this reversal in budding yeast, protein
phosphatase 1 (PP1) and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activities have each been
independently linked to mitotic exit control in other eukaryotes. Here we
describe a mitotic phosphatase relay in which PP1 reactivation is required for
the reactivation of both PP2A-B55 and PP2A-B56 to coordinate mitotic progression 
and exit in fission yeast. The staged recruitment of PP1 (the Dis2 isoform) to
the regulatory subunits of the PP2A-B55 and PP2A-B56 (B55 also known as Pab1; B56
also known as Par1) holoenzymes sequentially activates each phosphatase. The
pathway is blocked in early mitosis because the Cdk1-cyclin B kinase (Cdk1 also
known as Cdc2) inhibits PP1 activity, but declining cyclin B levels later in
mitosis permit PP1 to auto-reactivate. PP1 first reactivates PP2A-B55; this
enables PP2A-B55 in turn to promote the reactivation of PP2A-B56 by
dephosphorylating a PP1-docking site in PP2A-B56, thereby promoting the
recruitment of PP1. PP1 recruitment to human, mitotic PP2A-B56 holoenzymes and
the sequences of these conserved PP1-docking motifs suggest that PP1 regulates
PP2A-B55 and PP2A-B56 activities in a variety of signalling contexts throughout
eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14019 
PMCID: PMC4338534
PMID: 25487150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):44-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13950. Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Structure of a mammalian ryanodine receptor.

Zalk R(1), Clarke OB(2), des Georges A(2), Grassucci RA(3), Reiken S(1), Mancia
F(1), Hendrickson WA(4), Frank J(5), Marks AR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New
York, New York 10032, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA.
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University,
New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(4)1] Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biophysics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(5)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University,
New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA [3] Department of Biological Sciences, 
Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.
(6)1] Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New
York, New York 10032, USA [3] Wu Center for Molecular Cardiology, College of
Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) mediate the rapid release of calcium (Ca(2+)) from
intracellular stores into the cytosol, which is essential for numerous cellular
functions including excitation-contraction coupling in muscle. Lack of sufficient
structural detail has impeded understanding of RyR gating and regulation. Here we
report the closed-state structure of the 2.3-megadalton complex of the rabbit
skeletal muscle type 1 RyR (RyR1), solved by single-particle electron
cryomicroscopy at an overall resolution of 4.8 Å. We fitted a polyalanine-level
model to all 3,757 ordered residues in each protomer, defining the transmembrane 
pore in unprecedented detail and placing all cytosolic domains as tertiary folds.
The cytosolic assembly is built on an extended α-solenoid scaffold connecting key
regulatory domains to the pore. The RyR1 pore architecture places it in the
six-transmembrane ion channel superfamily. A unique domain inserted between the
second and third transmembrane helices interacts intimately with paired EF-hands 
originating from the α-solenoid scaffold, suggesting a mechanism for channel
gating by Ca(2+).

DOI: 10.1038/nature13950 
PMCID: PMC4300236
PMID: 25470061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):39-43. doi: 10.1038/nature13916. Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Architecture and conformational switch mechanism of the ryanodine receptor.

Efremov RG(1), Leitner A(2), Aebersold R(3), Raunser S(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Structural Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany [2] Structural Biology Research Center,
Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie (VIB), 1050 Brussels, Belgium [3] Structural
Biology Brussels, Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich,
8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)1] Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich, 
8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2] Faculty of Science, University of Zurich, 8057
Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Structural Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany.

Muscle contraction is initiated by the release of calcium (Ca(2+)) from the
sarcoplasmic reticulum into the cytoplasm of myocytes through ryanodine receptors
(RyRs). RyRs are homotetrameric channels with a molecular mass of more than
2.2 megadaltons that are regulated by several factors, including ions, small
molecules and proteins. Numerous mutations in RyRs have been associated with
human diseases. The molecular mechanism underlying the complex regulation of RyRs
is poorly understood. Using electron cryomicroscopy, here we determine the
architecture of rabbit RyR1 at a resolution of 6.1 Å. We show that the
cytoplasmic moiety of RyR1 contains two large α-solenoid domains and several
smaller domains, with folds suggestive of participation in protein-protein
interactions. The transmembrane domain represents a chimaera of voltage-gated
sodium and pH-activated ion channels. We identify the calcium-binding EF-hand
domain and show that it functions as a conformational switch allosterically
gating the channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13916 
PMID: 25470059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature13991. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Native structure of photosystem II at 1.95 Å resolution viewed by femtosecond
X-ray pulses.

Suga M(1), Akita F(1), Hirata K(2), Ueno G(3), Murakami H(3), Nakajima Y(1),
Shimizu T(1), Yamashita K(3), Yamamoto M(3), Ago H(3), Shen JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Photosynthesis Research Center, Graduate School of Natural Science and
Technology, Okayama University, 3-1-1 Tsushima Naka, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.
(2)1] RIKEN SPring-8 Center, 1-1-1 Kouto Sayo, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan [2] Japan
Science and Technology Agency (JST), Core Research for Evolutional Science and
Technology (CREST), Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012, Japan.
(3)RIKEN SPring-8 Center, 1-1-1 Kouto Sayo, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):26-7.

Photosynthesis converts light energy into biologically useful chemical energy
vital to life on Earth. The initial reaction of photosynthesis takes place in
photosystem II (PSII), a 700-kilodalton homodimeric membrane protein complex that
catalyses photo-oxidation of water into dioxygen through an S-state cycle of the 
oxygen evolving complex (OEC). The structure of PSII has been solved by X-ray
diffraction (XRD) at 1.9 ångström resolution, which revealed that the OEC is a
Mn4CaO5-cluster coordinated by a well defined protein environment. However,
extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) studies showed that the
manganese cations in the OEC are easily reduced by X-ray irradiation, and slight 
differences were found in the Mn-Mn distances determined by XRD, EXAFS and
theoretical studies. Here we report a 'radiation-damage-free' structure of PSII
from Thermosynechococcus vulcanus in the S1 state at a resolution of 1.95
ångströms using femtosecond X-ray pulses of the SPring-8 ångström compact
free-electron laser (SACLA) and hundreds of large, highly isomorphous PSII
crystals. Compared with the structure from XRD, the OEC in the X-ray free
electron laser structure has Mn-Mn distances that are shorter by 0.1-0.2
ångströms. The valences of each manganese atom were tentatively assigned as
Mn1D(III), Mn2C(IV), Mn3B(IV) and Mn4A(III), based on the average Mn-ligand
distances and analysis of the Jahn-Teller axis on Mn(III). One of the oxo-bridged
oxygens, O5, has significantly longer distances to Mn than do the other
oxo-oxygen atoms, suggesting that O5 is a hydroxide ion instead of a normal
oxygen dianion and therefore may serve as one of the substrate oxygen atoms.
These findings provide a structural basis for the mechanism of oxygen evolution, 
and we expect that this structure will provide a blueprint for the design of
artificial catalysts for water oxidation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13991 
PMID: 25470056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):33-8. doi: 10.1038/nature14010. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

RNA regulons in Hox 5' UTRs confer ribosome specificity to gene regulation.

Xue S(1), Tian S(2), Fujii K(3), Kladwang W(2), Das R(4), Barna M(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Developmental Biology, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California 94305, USA [3] Tetrad Graduate Program, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.
(3)1] Department of Developmental Biology, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California 94305, USA.
(4)1] Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA [2] Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):24-5.

Emerging evidence suggests that the ribosome has a regulatory function in
directing how the genome is translated in time and space. However, how this
regulation is encoded in the messenger RNA sequence remains largely unknown. Here
we uncover unique RNA regulons embedded in homeobox (Hox) 5' untranslated regions
(UTRs) that confer ribosome-mediated control of gene expression. These structured
RNA elements, resembling viral internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs), are found
in subsets of Hox mRNAs. They facilitate ribosome recruitment and require the
ribosomal protein RPL38 for their activity. Despite numerous layers of Hox gene
regulation, these IRES elements are essential for converting Hox transcripts into
proteins to pattern the mammalian body plan. This specialized mode of
IRES-dependent translation is enabled by an additional regulatory element that we
term the translation inhibitory element (TIE), which blocks cap-dependent
translation of transcripts. Together, these data uncover a new paradigm for
ribosome-mediated control of gene expression and organismal development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14010 
PMCID: PMC4353651
PMID: 25409156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13851. Epub 2014 Oct 19.

Identification of multipotent mammary stem cells by protein C receptor
expression.

Wang D(1), Cai C(1), Dong X(1), Yu QC(1), Zhang XO(2), Yang L(2), Zeng YA(1).

Author information: 
(1)The State Key Laboratory of Cell Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell
Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Computational Biology, CAS-MPG Partner Institute for
Computational Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.

The mammary gland is composed of multiple types of epithelial cells, which are
generated by mammary stem cells (MaSCs) residing at the top of the hierarchy.
However, the existence of these multipotent MaSCs remains controversial and the
nature of such cells is unknown. Here we demonstrate that protein C receptor
(Procr), a novel Wnt target in the mammary gland, marks a unique population of
multipotent mouse MaSCs. Procr-positive cells localize to the basal layer,
exhibit epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition characteristics, and express low
levels of basal keratins. Procr-expressing cells have a high regenerative
capacity in transplantation assays and differentiate into all lineages of the
mammary epithelium by lineage tracing. These results define a novel multipotent
mammary stem cell population that could be important in the initiation of breast 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13851 
PMID: 25327250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):85-88. doi: 10.1038/nature13806. Epub 2014 Oct 19.

Hepatitis A virus and the origins of picornaviruses.

Wang X(#)(1), Ren J(#)(2), Gao Q(#)(1)(3), Hu Z(4), Sun Y(1), Li X(1), Rowlands
DJ(5), Yin W(3), Wang J(4), Stuart DI(2)(6), Rao Z(1)(7), Fry EE(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Macromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Science, Beijing, 100101, China.
(2)Division of Structural Biology, University of Oxford, The Henry Wellcome
Building for Genomic Medicine, Headington, Oxford, UK.
(3)Sinovac Biotech Co., Ltd., Beijing, 100085, China.
(4)National Institutes for Food and Drug Control, No. 2, TiantanXili, Beijing
100050, China.
(5)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Astbury Centre for Structural 
Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds,
UK.
(6)Diamond Light Sources, Harwell Science and Innovation Campus, Didcot, OX11
0DE, UK.
(7)Laboratory of Structural Biology, School of Medicine, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, 100084, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Hepatitis A virus (HAV) remains enigmatic, despite 1.4 million cases worldwide
annually. It differs radically from other picornaviruses, existing in an
enveloped form and being unusually stable, both genetically and physically, but
has proved difficult to study. Here we report high-resolution X-ray structures
for the mature virus and the empty particle. The structures of the two particles 
are indistinguishable, apart from some disorder on the inside of the empty
particle. The full virus contains the small viral protein VP4, whereas the empty 
particle harbours only the uncleaved precursor, VP0. The smooth particle surface 
is devoid of depressions that might correspond to receptor-binding sites. Peptide
scanning data extend the previously reported VP3 antigenic site, while
structure-based predictions suggest further epitopes. HAV contains no pocket
factor and can withstand remarkably high temperature and low pH, and empty
particles are even more robust than full particles. The virus probably uncoats
via a novel mechanism, being assembled differently to other picornaviruses. It
utilizes a VP2 'domain swap' characteristic of insect picorna-like viruses, and
structure-based phylogenetic analysis places HAV between typical picornaviruses
and the insect viruses. The enigmatic properties of HAV may reflect its position 
as a link between 'modern' picornaviruses and the more 'primitive' precursor
insect viruses; for instance, HAV retains the ability to move from cell-to-cell
by transcytosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13806 
PMCID: PMC4773894
PMID: 25327248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):77-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13805. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Origins of major archaeal clades correspond to gene acquisitions from bacteria.

Nelson-Sathi S(1), Sousa FL(1), Roettger M(1), Lozada-Chávez N(1), Thiergart
T(1), Janssen A(2), Bryant D(3), Landan G(4), Schönheit P(5), Siebers B(6),
McInerney JO(7), Martin WF(8).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Evolution, Heinrich-Heine University, 40225 Düsseldorf,
Germany.
(2)Mathematisches Institut, Heinrich-Heine University, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Otago, Dunedin 9054,
New Zealand.
(4)Genomic Microbiology Group, Institute of Microbiology,
Christian-Albrechts-Universität Kiel, 24118 Kiel, Germany.
(5)Institut für Allgemeine Mikrobiologie, Christian-Albrechts-Universität Kiel,
24118 Kiel, Germany.
(6)Faculty of Chemistry, Biofilm Centre, Molecular Enzyme Technology and
Biochemistry, University of Duisburg-Essen, 45117 Essen, Germany.
(7)Department of Biology, National University of Ireland, Maynooth, County
Kildare, Ireland.
(8)1] Institute of Molecular Evolution, Heinrich-Heine University, 40225
Düsseldorf, Germany [2] Instituto de Tecnologia Química e Biológica, Universidade
Nova de Lisboa, 2780-157 Oeiras, Portugal.

Comment in
    Trends Ecol Evol. 2015 Mar;30(3):127-9.

The mechanisms that underlie the origin of major prokaryotic groups are poorly
understood. In principle, the origin of both species and higher taxa among
prokaryotes should entail similar mechanisms--ecological interactions with the
environment paired with natural genetic variation involving lineage-specific gene
innovations and lineage-specific gene acquisitions. To investigate the origin of 
higher taxa in archaea, we have determined gene distributions and gene
phylogenies for the 267,568 protein-coding genes of 134 sequenced archaeal
genomes in the context of their homologues from 1,847 reference bacterial
genomes. Archaeal-specific gene families define 13 traditionally recognized
archaeal higher taxa in our sample. Here we report that the origins of these 13
groups unexpectedly correspond to 2,264 group-specific gene acquisitions from
bacteria. Interdomain gene transfer is highly asymmetric, transfers from bacteria
to archaea are more than fivefold more frequent than vice versa. Gene transfers
identified at major evolutionary transitions among prokaryotes specifically
implicate gene acquisitions for metabolic functions from bacteria as key
innovations in the origin of higher archaeal taxa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13805 
PMCID: PMC4285555
PMID: 25317564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):89-93. doi: 10.1038/nature13801. Epub 2014 Oct 12.

Human intracellular ISG15 prevents interferon-α/β over-amplification and
auto-inflammation.

Zhang X(1), Bogunovic D(2), Payelle-Brogard B(3), Francois-Newton V(3), Speer
SD(4), Yuan C(1), Volpi S(5), Li Z(3), Sanal O(6), Mansouri D(7), Tezcan I(6),
Rice GI(8), Chen C(9), Mansouri N(7), Mahdaviani SA(7), Itan Y(10), Boisson
B(10), Okada S(10), Zeng L(1), Wang X(1), Jiang H(11), Liu W(1), Han T(1), Liu
D(12), Ma T(1), Wang B(13), Liu M(1), Liu JY(1), Wang QK(14), Yalnizoglu D(6),
Radoshevich L(15), Uzé G(16), Gros P(17), Rozenberg F(18), Zhang SY(10), Jouanguy
E(19), Bustamante J(20), García-Sastre A(21), Abel L(22), Lebon P(18),
Notarangelo LD(23), Crow YJ(24), Boisson-Dupuis S(22), Casanova JL(25),
Pellegrini S(26).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of the Ministry of Education, College
of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan 430074, China.
(2)1] St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller 
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Department 
of Microbiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York
10029, USA.
(3)Institut Pasteur, Cytokine Signaling Unit, CNRS URA 1961, 75724 Paris, France.
(4)1] Department of Microbiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, New York 10029, USA [2] Global Health and Emerging Pathogens Institute,
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [3]
Microbiology Training Area, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences of Icahn
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(5)1] Division of Immunology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology,
Genetics, Maternal and Child Health, University of Genoa, 16132 Genoa, Italy.
(6)Immunology Division and Pediatric Neurology Department, Hacettepe University
Children's Hospital, 06100 Ankara, Turkey.
(7)Division of Infectious Diseases and Clinical Immunology, Pediatric Respiratory
Diseases Research Center, National Research Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung
Diseases, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 4739 Teheran, Iran.
(8)Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester, Genetic
Medicine, Manchester, M13 9NT, UK.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha 410013, China.
(10)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(11)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.
(12)Sangzhi County People's Hospital, Sangzhi 427100, China.
(13)Genetics Laboratory, Hubei Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Wuhan, Hubei
430070, China.
(14)1] Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of the Ministry of Education,
College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and
Technology, Wuhan 430074, China [2] Center for Cardiovascular Genetics,
Department of Molecular Cardiology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.
(15)Institut Pasteur, Bacteria-Cell Interactions Unit, 75724 Paris, France.
(16)CNRS UMR5235, Montpellier II University, Place Eugène Bataillon, 34095
Montpellier, France.
(17)Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3A 0G4, Canada.
(18)Paris Descartes University, 75006 Paris, France.
(19)1] Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM
U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes
University, Imagine Institute, 75015 Paris, France.
(20)1] Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM
U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes
University, Imagine Institute, 75015 Paris, France [3] Center for the Study of
Primary Immunodeficiencies, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris,
France.
(21)1] Department of Microbiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, New York 10029, USA [2] Global Health and Emerging Pathogens Institute,
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [3]
Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(22)1] St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Laboratory 
of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U1163, Necker
Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France [3] Paris Descartes University,
Imagine Institute, 75015 Paris, France.
(23)Division of Immunology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(24)1] Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester,
Genetic Medicine, Manchester, M13 9NT, UK [2] Paris Descartes University, Imagine
Institute, 75015 Paris, France [3] INSERM UMR 1163, Laboratory of Neurogenetics
and Neuroinflammation, Imagine Institute, 75006 Paris, France.
(25)1] Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM
U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes
University, Imagine Institute, 75015 Paris, France [3] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA [4] Pediatric Hematology-Immunology
Unit, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France [5].
(26)1] Institut Pasteur, Cytokine Signaling Unit, CNRS URA 1961, 75724 Paris,
France [2].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Dec;14(12):780-1.

Intracellular ISG15 is an interferon (IFN)-α/β-inducible ubiquitin-like modifier 
which can covalently bind other proteins in a process called ISGylation; it is an
effector of IFN-α/β-dependent antiviral immunity in mice. We previously published
a study describing humans with inherited ISG15 deficiency but without unusually
severe viral diseases. We showed that these patients were prone to mycobacterial 
disease and that human ISG15 was non-redundant as an extracellular IFN-γ-inducing
molecule. We show here that ISG15-deficient patients also display unanticipated
cellular, immunological and clinical signs of enhanced IFN-α/β immunity,
reminiscent of the Mendelian autoinflammatory interferonopathies
Aicardi-Goutières syndrome and spondyloenchondrodysplasia. We further show that
an absence of intracellular ISG15 in the patients' cells prevents the
accumulation of USP18, a potent negative regulator of IFN-α/β signalling,
resulting in the enhancement and amplification of IFN-α/β responses. Human ISG15,
therefore, is not only redundant for antiviral immunity, but is a key negative
regulator of IFN-α/β immunity. In humans, intracellular ISG15 is
IFN-α/β-inducible not to serve as a substrate for ISGylation-dependent antiviral 
immunity, but to ensure USP18-dependent regulation of IFN-α/β and prevention of
IFN-α/β-dependent autoinflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13801 
PMCID: PMC4303590
PMID: 25307056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Nature. 2015 Jan 1;517(7532):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13797. Epub 2014 Oct 12.

Structure of an integral membrane sterol reductase from Methylomicrobium
alcaliphilum.

Li X(1), Roberti R(2), Blobel G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Rockefeller
University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, Perugia 06132,
Italy.

Sterols are essential biological molecules in the majority of life forms. Sterol 
reductases including Δ(14)-sterol reductase (C14SR, also known as TM7SF2),
7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7) and 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase
(DHCR24) reduce specific carbon-carbon double bonds of the sterol moiety using a 
reducing cofactor during sterol biosynthesis. Lamin B receptor (LBR), an integral
inner nuclear membrane protein, also contains a functional C14SR domain. Here we 
report the crystal structure of a Δ(14)-sterol reductase (MaSR1) from the
methanotrophic bacterium Methylomicrobium alcaliphilum 20Z (a homologue of human 
C14SR, LBR and DHCR7) with the cofactor NADPH. The enzyme contains ten
transmembrane segments (TM1-10). Its catalytic domain comprises the
carboxy-terminal half (containing TM6-10) and envelops two interconnected
pockets, one of which faces the cytoplasm and houses NADPH, while the other one
is accessible from the lipid bilayer. Comparison with a soluble steroid
5β-reductase structure suggests that the reducing end of NADPH meets the sterol
substrate at the juncture of the two pockets. A sterol reductase activity assay
proves that MaSR1 can reduce the double bond of a cholesterol biosynthetic
intermediate, demonstrating functional conservation to human C14SR. Therefore,
our structure as a prototype of integral membrane sterol reductases provides
molecular insight into mutations in DHCR7 and LBR for inborn human diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13797 
PMCID: PMC4285568
PMID: 25307054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):410-3. doi: 10.1038/nature14096.

Protein quality control at the inner nuclear membrane.

Khmelinskii A(1), Blaszczak E(2), Pantazopoulou M(3), Fischer B(4), Omnus DJ(3), 
Le Dez G(2), Brossard A(2), Gunnarsson A(3), Barry JD(5), Meurer M(1), Kirrmaier 
D(1), Boone C(6), Huber W(5), Rabut G(2), Ljungdahl PO(3), Knop M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Molekulare Biologie der Universität Heidelberg (ZMBH), DKFZ-ZMBH
Alliance, Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)1] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, UMR 6290, 35000 Rennes,
France [2] Institut de Génétique et Développement de Rennes, Université de Rennes
1, 35000 Rennes, France.
(3)Department of Molecular Biosciences, The Wenner-Gren Institute, Stockholm
University, Svante Arrhenius väg 20B, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)1] Genome Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL),
Meyerhofstraße 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany [2] Computational Genome Biology,
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 580, 69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(5)Genome Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL),
Meyerhofstraße 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Department of Molecular Genetics, Donnelly Centre for Cellular and
Biomolecular Research, University of Toronto, 160 College St, Toronto, Ontario
M5S 3E1, Canada.
(7)1] Zentrum für Molekulare Biologie der Universität Heidelberg (ZMBH),
DKFZ-ZMBH Alliance, Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] Cell
Morphogenesis and Signal Transduction, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

The nuclear envelope is a double membrane that separates the nucleus from the
cytoplasm. The inner nuclear membrane (INM) functions in essential nuclear
processes including chromatin organization and regulation of gene expression. The
outer nuclear membrane is continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum and is the
site of membrane protein synthesis. Protein homeostasis in this compartment is
ensured by endoplasmic-reticulum-associated protein degradation (ERAD) pathways
that in yeast involve the integral membrane E3 ubiquitin ligases Hrd1 and Doa10
operating with the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes Ubc6 and Ubc7 (refs 2, 3).
However, little is known about protein quality control at the INM. Here we
describe a protein degradation pathway at the INM in yeast (Saccharomyces
cerevisiae) mediated by the Asi complex consisting of the RING domain proteins
Asi1 and Asi3 (ref. 4). We report that the Asi complex functions together with
the ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes Ubc6 and Ubc7 to degrade soluble and integral
membrane proteins. Genetic evidence suggests that the Asi ubiquitin ligase
defines a pathway distinct from, but complementary to, ERAD. Using unbiased
screening with a novel genome-wide yeast library based on a tandem fluorescent
protein timer, we identify more than 50 substrates of the Asi, Hrd1 and Doa10 E3 
ubiquitin ligases. We show that the Asi ubiquitin ligase is involved in
degradation of mislocalized integral membrane proteins, thus acting to maintain
and safeguard the identity of the INM.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14096 
PMCID: PMC4493439
PMID: 25519137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):379-82. doi: 10.1038/nature14017.

The contribution of the Precambrian continental lithosphere to global H2
production.

Lollar BS(1), Onstott TC(2), Lacrampe-Couloume G(1), Ballentine CJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, 22 Russell Street, University of Toronto,
Toronto M5S 3B1, Canada.
(2)Department of Geosciences, Guyot Hall, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA.
(3)Department of Earth Sciences, South Parks Road, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 3AN, UK.

Microbial ecosystems can be sustained by hydrogen gas (H2)-producing water-rock
interactions in the Earth's subsurface and at deep ocean vents. Current estimates
of global H2 production from the marine lithosphere by water-rock reactions
(hydration) are in the range of 10(11) moles per year. Recent explorations of
saline fracture waters in the Precambrian continental subsurface have identified 
environments as rich in H2 as hydrothermal vents and seafloor-spreading centres
and have suggested a link between dissolved H2 and the radiolytic dissociation of
water. However, extrapolation of a regional H2 flux based on the deep gold mines 
of the Witwatersrand basin in South Africa yields a contribution of the
Precambrian lithosphere to global H2 production that was thought to be negligible
(0.009 × 10(11) moles per year). Here we present a global compilation of
published and new H2 concentration data obtained from Precambrian rocks and find 
that the H2 production potential of the Precambrian continental lithosphere has
been underestimated. We suggest that this can be explained by a lack of
consideration of additional H2-producing reactions, such as serpentinization, and
the absence of appropriate scaling of H2 measurements from these environments to 
account for the fact that Precambrian crust represents over 70 per cent of global
continental crust surface area. If H2 production via both radiolysis and
hydration reactions is taken into account, our estimate of H2 production rates
from the Precambrian continental lithosphere of 0.36-2.27 × 10(11) moles per year
is comparable to estimates from marine systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14017 
PMID: 25519136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):374-8. doi: 10.1038/nature14026.

Reconstruction and control of a time-dependent two-electron wave packet.

Ott C(1), Kaldun A(1), Argenti L(2), Raith P(1), Meyer K(1), Laux M(1), Zhang
Y(1), Blättermann A(1), Hagstotz S(1), Ding T(1), Heck R(1), Madroñero J(3),
Martín F(4), Pfeifer T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(2)Departamento de Química, Módulo 13, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049
Madrid, Spain.
(3)Physik-Department, Technische Universität München, 85747 Garching, Germany.
(4)1] Departamento de Química, Módulo 13, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049
Madrid, Spain [2] Instituto Madrileño de Estudios Avanzados en Nanociencia,
Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain.
(5)1] Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] Center for Quantum Dynamics, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg,
69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

The concerted motion of two or more bound electrons governs atomic and molecular 
non-equilibrium processes including chemical reactions, and hence there is much
interest in developing a detailed understanding of such electron dynamics in the 
quantum regime. However, there is no exact solution for the quantum three-body
problem, and as a result even the minimal system of two active electrons and a
nucleus is analytically intractable. This makes experimental measurements of the 
dynamics of two bound and correlated electrons, as found in the helium atom, an
attractive prospect. However, although the motion of single active electrons and 
holes has been observed with attosecond time resolution, comparable experiments
on two-electron motion have so far remained out of reach. Here we show that a
correlated two-electron wave packet can be reconstructed from a 1.2-femtosecond
quantum beat among low-lying doubly excited states in helium. The beat appears in
attosecond transient-absorption spectra measured with unprecedentedly high
spectral resolution and in the presence of an intensity-tunable visible laser
field. We tune the coupling between the two low-lying quantum states by adjusting
the visible laser intensity, and use the Fano resonance as a phase-sensitive
quantum interferometer to achieve coherent control of the two correlated
electrons. Given the excellent agreement with large-scale quantum-mechanical
calculations for the helium atom, we anticipate that multidimensional
spectroscopy experiments of the type we report here will provide benchmark data
for testing fundamental few-body quantum dynamics theory in more complex systems.
They might also provide a route to the site-specific measurement and control of
metastable electronic transition states that are at the heart of fundamental
chemical reactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14026 
PMID: 25519135 


90. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):370-3. doi: 10.1038/nature14004.

Deterministic switching of ferromagnetism at room temperature using an electric
field.

Heron JT(1), Bosse JL(2), He Q(3), Gao Y(4), Trassin M(5), Ye L(2), Clarkson
JD(6), Wang C(7), Liu J(8), Salahuddin S(9), Ralph DC(10), Schlom DG(11), Iñiguez
J(12), Huey BD(13), Ramesh R(14).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA.
(2)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Connecticut,
Storrs, Connecticut 06269, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Durham University, Durham DH1 3LE, UK.
(4)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] School of Materials Science and Engineering, and State Key Lab of 
New Ceramics and Fine Processing, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(5)Department of Materials, ETH Zurich, Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 4 10, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland.
(6)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(7)Department of Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(8)Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(9)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(10)1] Department of Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA [2]
Kavli Institute at Cornell for Nanoscale Science, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(11)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York 14853, USA [2] Kavli Institute at Cornell for Nanoscale Science,
Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(12)Institut de Ciència de Materials de Barcelona (ICMAB-CSIC), Campus UAB, 08193
Bellaterra, Spain.
(13)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of
Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut 06269, USA [2] Institute of Materials Science,
University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut 06269, USA.
(14)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Materials Science Division,
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):337-8.

The technological appeal of multiferroics is the ability to control magnetism
with electric field. For devices to be useful, such control must be achieved at
room temperature. The only single-phase multiferroic material exhibiting
unambiguous magnetoelectric coupling at room temperature is BiFeO3 (refs 4 and
5). Its weak ferromagnetism arises from the canting of the antiferromagnetically 
aligned spins by the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction. Prior theory
considered the symmetry of the thermodynamic ground state and concluded that
direct 180-degree switching of the DM vector by the ferroelectric polarization
was forbidden. Instead, we examined the kinetics of the switching process,
something not considered previously in theoretical work. Here we show a
deterministic reversal of the DM vector and canted moment using an electric field
at room temperature. First-principles calculations reveal that the switching
kinetics favours a two-step switching process. In each step the DM vector and
polarization are coupled and 180-degree deterministic switching of magnetization 
hence becomes possible, in agreement with experimental observation. We exploit
this switching to demonstrate energy-efficient control of a spin-valve device at 
room temperature. The energy per unit area required is approximately an order of 
magnitude less than that needed for spin-transfer torque switching. Given that
the DM interaction is fundamental to single-phase multiferroics and
magnetoelectrics, our results suggest ways to engineer magnetoelectric switching 
and tailor technologically pertinent functionality for nanometre-scale,
low-energy-consumption, non-volatile magnetoelectronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14004 
PMID: 25519134 


91. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):367-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13969.

The exclusion of a significant range of ages in a massive star cluster.

Li C(1), de Grijs R(2), Deng L(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Kavli Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Peking University, Yi He
Yuan Lu 5, Hai Dian District, Beijing 100871, China [2] Department of Astronomy, 
Peking University, Yi He Yuan Lu 5, Hai Dian District, Beijing 100871, China [3] 
Key Laboratory for Optical Astronomy, National Astronomical Observatories,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 20A Datun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100012,
China.
(2)1] Kavli Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Peking University, Yi He
Yuan Lu 5, Hai Dian District, Beijing 100871, China [2] Department of Astronomy, 
Peking University, Yi He Yuan Lu 5, Hai Dian District, Beijing 100871, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Optical Astronomy, National Astronomical Observatories,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 20A Datun Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100012,
China.

Stars spend most of their lifetimes on the main sequence in the
Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. The extended main-sequence turn-off
regions--containing stars leaving the main sequence after having spent all of the
hydrogen in their cores--found in massive (more than a few tens of thousands of
solar masses), intermediate-age (about one to three billion years old) star
clusters are usually interpreted as evidence of internal age spreads of more than
300 million years, although young clusters are thought to quickly lose any
remaining star-forming fuel following a period of rapid gas expulsion on
timescales of order 10(7) years. Here we report, on the basis of a combination of
high-resolution imaging observations and theoretical modelling, that the stars
beyond the main sequence in the two-billion-year-old cluster NGC 1651,
characterized by a mass of about 1.7 × 10(5) solar masses, can be explained only 
by a single-age stellar population, even though the cluster has a clearly
extended main-sequence turn-off region. The most plausible explanation for the
existence of such extended regions invokes a population of rapidly rotating
stars, although the secondary effects of the prolonged stellar lifetimes
associated with such a stellar population mixture are as yet poorly understood.
From preliminary analysis of previously obtained data, we find that similar
morphologies are apparent in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagrams of at least five
additional intermediate-age star clusters, suggesting that an extended
main-sequence turn-off region does not necessarily imply the presence of a
significant internal age dispersion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13969 
PMID: 25519133 


92. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):349-54. doi: 10.1038/nature13921.

An AUTS2-Polycomb complex activates gene expression in the CNS.

Gao Z(1), Lee P(1), Stafford JM(1), von Schimmelmann M(2), Schaefer A(2),
Reinberg D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York University Langone School of
Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York, New
York 10016, USA.
(2)Friedman Brain Institute, Department of Neuroscience, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Naturally occurring variations of Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1) comprise a
core assembly of Polycomb group proteins and additional factors that include,
surprisingly, autism susceptibility candidate 2 (AUTS2). Although AUTS2 is often 
disrupted in patients with neuronal disorders, the mechanism underlying the
pathogenesis is unclear. We investigated the role of AUTS2 as part of a
previously identified PRC1 complex (PRC1-AUTS2), and in the context of
neurodevelopment. In contrast to the canonical role of PRC1 in gene repression,
PRC1-AUTS2 activates transcription. Biochemical studies demonstrate that the CK2 
component of PRC1-AUTS2 neutralizes PRC1 repressive activity, whereas
AUTS2-mediated recruitment of P300 leads to gene activation. Chromatin
immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) demonstrated that AUTS2
regulates neuronal gene expression through promoter association. Conditional
targeting of Auts2 in the mouse central nervous system (CNS) leads to various
developmental defects. These findings reveal a natural means of subverting PRC1
activity, linking key epigenetic modulators with neuronal functions and diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13921 
PMCID: PMC4323097
PMID: 25519132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):343-8. doi: 10.1038/nature14006.

Functionalized olefin cross-coupling to construct carbon-carbon bonds.

Lo JC(1), Gui J(1), Yabe Y(1), Pan CM(1), Baran PS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):332-3.

Carbon-carbon (C-C) bonds form the backbone of many important molecules,
including polymers, dyes and pharmaceutical agents. The development of new
methods to create these essential connections in a rapid and practical fashion
has been the focus of numerous organic chemists. This endeavour relies heavily on
the ability to form C-C bonds in the presence of sensitive functional groups and 
congested structural environments. Here we report a chemical transformation that 
allows the facile construction of highly substituted and uniquely functionalized 
C-C bonds. Using a simple iron catalyst, an inexpensive silane and a benign
solvent under ambient atmosphere, heteroatom-substituted olefins are easily
reacted with electron-deficient olefins to create molecular architectures that
were previously difficult or impossible to access. More than 60 examples are
presented with a wide array of substrates, demonstrating the chemoselectivity and
mildness of this simple reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14006 
PMCID: PMC4271735
PMID: 25519131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):383-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14032. Epub 2014 Nov 14.

Global protected area expansion is compromised by projected land-use and
parochialism.

Montesino Pouzols F(1), Toivonen T(2), Di Minin E(3), Kukkala AS(1), Kullberg
P(1), Kuusterä J(4), Lehtomäki J(1), Tenkanen H(5), Verburg PH(6), Moilanen A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Finnish Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Biology, Department of
Biosciences, Biocenter 3, University of Helsinki, PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1),
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland.
(2)1] Finnish Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Biology, Department of
Biosciences, Biocenter 3, University of Helsinki, PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1),
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland [2] Department of Geosciences and Geography,
University of Helsinki, PO Box 64 (Gustaf Hällströmin katu 2a), FI-00014
Helsinki, Finland.
(3)1] Finnish Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Biology, Department of
Biosciences, Biocenter 3, University of Helsinki, PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1),
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland [2] Department of Life Sciences, University of
KwaZulu-Natal, University Road, Private Bag X54001, Durban 4000, South Africa.
(4)1] Finnish Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Biology, Department of
Biosciences, Biocenter 3, University of Helsinki, PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1),
FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland [2] Regional Council of Helsinki-Uusimaa,
Esterinportti 2 B, FI-00240 Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Department of Geosciences and Geography, University of Helsinki, PO Box 64
(Gustaf Hällströmin katu 2a), FI-00014 Helsinki, Finland.
(6)Institute for Environmental Studies, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan
1087, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):336-7.

Protected areas are one of the main tools for halting the continuing global
biodiversity crisis caused by habitat loss, fragmentation and other anthropogenic
pressures. According to the Aichi Biodiversity Target 11 adopted by the
Convention on Biological Diversity, the protected area network should be expanded
to at least 17% of the terrestrial world by 2020 (http://www.cbd.int/sp/targets).
To maximize conservation outcomes, it is crucial to identify the best expansion
areas. Here we show that there is a very high potential to increase protection of
ecoregions and vertebrate species by expanding the protected area network, but
also identify considerable risk of ineffective outcomes due to land-use change
and uncoordinated actions between countries. We use distribution data for 24,757 
terrestrial vertebrates assessed under the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 'red list of threatened species', and terrestrial
ecoregions (827), modified by land-use models for the present and 2040, and
introduce techniques for global and balanced spatial conservation prioritization.
First, we show that with a coordinated global protected area network expansion to
17% of terrestrial land, average protection of species ranges and ecoregions
could triple. Second, if projected land-use change by 2040 (ref. 11) takes place,
it becomes infeasible to reach the currently possible protection levels, and over
1,000 threatened species would lose more than 50% of their present effective
ranges worldwide. Third, we demonstrate a major efficiency gap between national
and global conservation priorities. Strong evidence is shown that further
biodiversity loss is unavoidable unless international action is quickly taken to 
balance land-use and biodiversity conservation. The approach used here can serve 
as a framework for repeatable and quantitative assessment of efficiency, gaps and
expansion of the global protected area network globally, regionally and
nationally, considering current and projected land-use pressures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14032 
PMID: 25494203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):387-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13987. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Signatures of aestivation and migration in Sahelian malaria mosquito populations.

Dao A(1), Yaro AS(1), Diallo M(1), Timbiné S(1), Huestis DL(2), Kassogué Y(1),
Traoré AI(1), Sanogo ZL(1), Samaké D(1), Lehmann T(2).

Author information: 
(1)International Center for Excellence in Research (ICER), University of
Sciences, Techniques and Technologies, BP 1805, Bamako, Mali.
(2)Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland 20852,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):334-6.

During the long Sahelian dry season, mosquito vectors of malaria are expected to 
perish when no larval sites are available; yet, days after the first rains,
mosquitoes reappear in large numbers. How these vectors persist over the
3-6-month long dry season has not been resolved, despite extensive research for
over a century. Hypotheses for vector persistence include dry-season diapause
(aestivation) and long-distance migration (LDM); both are facets of vector
biology that have been highly controversial owing to lack of concrete evidence.
Here we show that certain species persist by a form of aestivation, while others 
engage in LDM. Using time-series analyses, the seasonal cycles of Anopheles
coluzzii, Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto (s.s.), and Anopheles arabiensis were
estimated, and their effects were found to be significant, stable and highly
species-specific. Contrary to all expectations, the most complex dynamics
occurred during the dry season, when the density of A. coluzzii fluctuated
markedly, peaking when migration would seem highly unlikely, whereas A. gambiae
s.s. was undetected. The population growth of A. coluzzii followed the first
rains closely, consistent with aestivation, whereas the growth phase of both A.
gambiae s.s. and A. arabiensis lagged by two months. Such a delay is incompatible
with local persistence, but fits LDM. Surviving the long dry season in situ
allows A. coluzzii to predominate and form the primary force of malaria
transmission. Our results reveal profound ecological divergence between A.
coluzzii and A. gambiae s.s., whose standing as distinct species has been
challenged, and suggest that climate is one of the selective pressures that led
to their speciation. Incorporating vector dormancy and LDM is key to predicting
shifts in the range of malaria due to global climate change, and to the
elimination of malaria from Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13987 
PMCID: PMC4306333
PMID: 25470038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):361-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14009. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

Structural insight into cap-snatching and RNA synthesis by influenza polymerase.

Reich S(1), Guilligay D(1), Pflug A(1), Malet H(1), Berger I(1), Crépin T(2),
Hart D(1), Lunardi T(1), Nanao M(1), Ruigrok RW(2), Cusack S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Grenoble Outstation, 71 Avenue des
Martyrs, CS 90181, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France [2] University Grenoble
Alpes-Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-EMBL Unit of Virus Host-Cell
Interactions, 71 Avenue des Martyrs, CS 90181, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.
(2)University Grenoble Alpes-Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-EMBL
Unit of Virus Host-Cell Interactions, 71 Avenue des Martyrs, CS 90181, 38042
Grenoble Cedex 9, France.

Influenza virus polymerase uses a capped primer, derived by 'cap-snatching' from 
host pre-messenger RNA, to transcribe its RNA genome into mRNA and a stuttering
mechanism to generate the poly(A) tail. By contrast, genome replication is
unprimed and generates exact full-length copies of the template. Here we use
crystal structures of bat influenza A and human influenza B polymerases (FluA and
FluB), bound to the viral RNA promoter, to give mechanistic insight into these
distinct processes. In the FluA structure, a loop analogous to the priming loop
of flavivirus polymerases suggests that influenza could initiate unprimed
template replication by a similar mechanism. Comparing the FluA and FluB
structures suggests that cap-snatching involves in situ rotation of the PB2
cap-binding domain to direct the capped primer first towards the endonuclease and
then into the polymerase active site. The polymerase probably undergoes
considerable conformational changes to convert the observed pre-initiation state 
into the active initiation and elongation states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14009 
PMID: 25409151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):355-60. doi: 10.1038/nature14008. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

Structure of influenza A polymerase bound to the viral RNA promoter.

Pflug A(1), Guilligay D(1), Reich S(1), Cusack S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Grenoble Outstation, 71 Avenue des
Martyrs, CS 90181, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France [2] University Grenoble
Alpes-Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-EMBL Unit of Virus Host-Cell
Interactions, 71 Avenue des Martyrs, CS 90181, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.

The influenza virus polymerase transcribes or replicates the segmented RNA genome
(viral RNA) into viral messenger RNA or full-length copies. To initiate RNA
synthesis, the polymerase binds to the conserved 3' and 5' extremities of the
viral RNA. Here we present the crystal structure of the heterotrimeric bat
influenza A polymerase, comprising subunits PA, PB1 and PB2, bound to its viral
RNA promoter. PB1 contains a canonical RNA polymerase fold that is stabilized by 
large interfaces with PA and PB2. The PA endonuclease and the PB2 cap-binding
domain, involved in transcription by cap-snatching, form protrusions facing each 
other across a solvent channel. The 5' extremity of the promoter folds into a
compact hook that is bound in a pocket formed by PB1 and PA close to the
polymerase active site. This structure lays the basis for an atomic-level
mechanistic understanding of the many functions of influenza polymerase, and
opens new opportunities for anti-influenza drug design.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14008 
PMID: 25409142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):391-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13819. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

A relative shift in cloacal location repositions external genitalia in amniote
evolution.

Tschopp P(1), Sherratt E(2), Sanger TJ(2), Groner AC(3), Aspiras AC(1), Hu JK(1),
Pourquié O(4), Gros J(5), Tabin CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(2)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire
(IGBMC), 67400 Illkirch, France [3] Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)Developmental and Stem Cell Biology Department, Institut Pasteur, 75724 Paris 
Cedex 15, France.

The move of vertebrates to a terrestrial lifestyle required major adaptations in 
their locomotory apparatus and reproductive organs. While the fin-to-limb
transition has received considerable attention, little is known about the
developmental and evolutionary origins of external genitalia. Similarities in
gene expression have been interpreted as a potential evolutionary link between
the limb and genitals; however, no underlying developmental mechanism has been
identified. We re-examined this question using micro-computed tomography, lineage
tracing in three amniote clades, and RNA-sequencing-based transcriptional
profiling. Here we show that the developmental origin of external genitalia has
shifted through evolution, and in some taxa limbs and genitals share a common
primordium. In squamates, the genitalia develop directly from the budding
hindlimbs, or the remnants thereof, whereas in mice the genital tubercle
originates from the ventral and tail bud mesenchyme. The recruitment of different
cell populations for genital outgrowth follows a change in the relative position 
of the cloaca, the genitalia organizing centre. Ectopic grafting of the cloaca
demonstrates the conserved ability of different mesenchymal cells to respond to
these genitalia-inducing signals. Our results support a limb-like developmental
origin of external genitalia as the ancestral condition. Moreover, they suggest
that a change in the relative position of the cloacal signalling centre during
evolution has led to an altered developmental route for external genitalia in
mammals, while preserving parts of the ancestral limb molecular circuitry owing
to a common evolutionary origin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13819 
PMCID: PMC4294627
PMID: 25383527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):400-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13863. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Modelling human development and disease in pluripotent stem-cell-derived gastric 
organoids.

McCracken KW(1), Catá EM(1), Crawford CM(1), Sinagoga KL(1), Schumacher M(2),
Rockich BE(3), Tsai YH(4), Mayhew CN(1), Spence JR(5), Zavros Y(2), Wells JM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Developmental Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, University of Cincinnati,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45267, USA.
(3)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2200, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109-2200, USA.
(5)1] Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Michigan
Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2200, USA [2] Department of Internal
Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2200, 
USA.
(6)1] Division of Developmental Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA [2] Division of
Endocrinology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA.

Gastric diseases, including peptic ulcer disease and gastric cancer, affect 10%
of the world's population and are largely due to chronic Helicobacter pylori
infection. Species differences in embryonic development and architecture of the
adult stomach make animal models suboptimal for studying human stomach
organogenesis and pathogenesis, and there is no experimental model of normal
human gastric mucosa. Here we report the de novo generation of three-dimensional 
human gastric tissue in vitro through the directed differentiation of human
pluripotent stem cells. We show that temporal manipulation of the FGF, WNT, BMP, 
retinoic acid and EGF signalling pathways and three-dimensional growth are
sufficient to generate human gastric organoids (hGOs). Developing hGOs progressed
through molecular and morphogenetic stages that were nearly identical to the
developing antrum of the mouse stomach. Organoids formed primitive gastric gland-
and pit-like domains, proliferative zones containing LGR5-expressing cells,
surface and antral mucous cells, and a diversity of gastric endocrine cells. We
used hGO cultures to identify novel signalling mechanisms that regulate early
endoderm patterning and gastric endocrine cell differentiation upstream of the
transcription factor NEUROG3. Using hGOs to model pathogenesis of human disease, 
we found that H. pylori infection resulted in rapid association of the virulence 
factor CagA with the c-Met receptor, activation of signalling and induction of
epithelial proliferation. Together, these studies describe a new and robust in
vitro system for elucidating the mechanisms underlying human stomach development 
and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13863 
PMCID: PMC4270898
PMID: 25363776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):428-31. doi: 10.1038/nature13906. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Rapid modelling of cooperating genetic events in cancer through somatic genome
editing.

Sánchez-Rivera FJ(1), Papagiannakopoulos T(2), Romero R(1), Tammela T(2), Bauer
MR(2), Bhutkar A(2), Joshi NS(2), Subbaraj L(2), Bronson RT(3), Xue W(2), Jacks
T(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.
(2)David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(3)1] Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)1] David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Cancer is a multistep process that involves mutations and other alterations in
oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes. Genome sequencing studies have identified 
a large collection of genetic alterations that occur in human cancers. However,
the determination of which mutations are causally related to tumorigenesis
remains a major challenge. Here we describe a novel CRISPR/Cas9-based approach
for rapid functional investigation of candidate genes in well-established
autochthonous mouse models of cancer. Using a Kras(G12D)-driven lung cancer
model, we performed functional characterization of a panel of tumour suppressor
genes with known loss-of-function alterations in human lung cancer. Cre-dependent
somatic activation of oncogenic Kras(G12D) combined with CRISPR/Cas9-mediated
genome editing of tumour suppressor genes resulted in lung adenocarcinomas with
distinct histopathological and molecular features. This rapid somatic genome
engineering approach enables functional characterization of putative cancer genes
in the lung and other tissues using autochthonous mouse models. We anticipate
that this approach can be used to systematically dissect the complex catalogue of
mutations identified in cancer genome sequencing studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13906 
PMCID: PMC4292871
PMID: 25337879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):423-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13902. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

In vivo engineering of oncogenic chromosomal rearrangements with the CRISPR/Cas9 
system.

Maddalo D(1), Manchado E(1), Concepcion CP(2), Bonetti C(1), Vidigal JA(1), Han
YC(1), Ogrodowski P(1), Crippa A(3), Rekhtman N(4), de Stanchina E(5), Lowe
SW(6), Ventura A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Cancer Biology and Genetics Program,
1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)1] Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Cancer Biology and Genetics
Program, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Weill Cornell
Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University, 1300 York Avenue, New 
York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)Milano-Bicocca University, Department of Medical Oncology, San Gerardo
Hospital, 20052, Via G B Pergolesi 33, Monza, Italy.
(4)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Thoracic Pathology and Cytopathology, 
1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(5)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Molecular Pharmacology Program, 1275
York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(6)1] Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Cancer Biology and Genetics
Program, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Aug 27;524(7566):502.

Chromosomal rearrangements have a central role in the pathogenesis of human
cancers and often result in the expression of therapeutically actionable gene
fusions. A recently discovered example is a fusion between the genes echinoderm
microtubule-associated protein like 4 (EML4) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase
(ALK), generated by an inversion on the short arm of chromosome 2:
inv(2)(p21p23). The EML4-ALK oncogene is detected in a subset of human non-small 
cell lung cancers (NSCLC) and is clinically relevant because it confers
sensitivity to ALK inhibitors. Despite their importance, modelling such genetic
events in mice has proven challenging and requires complex manipulation of the
germ line. Here we describe an efficient method to induce specific chromosomal
rearrangements in vivo using viral-mediated delivery of the CRISPR/Cas9 system to
somatic cells of adult animals. We apply it to generate a mouse model of
Eml4-Alk-driven lung cancer. The resulting tumours invariably harbour the
Eml4-Alk inversion, express the Eml4-Alk fusion gene, display histopathological
and molecular features typical of ALK(+) human NSCLCs, and respond to treatment
with ALK inhibitors. The general strategy described here substantially expands
our ability to model human cancers in mice and potentially in other organisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13902 
PMCID: PMC4270925
PMID: 25337876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):395-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13816. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Adenosine activates brown adipose tissue and recruits beige adipocytes via A2A
receptors.

Gnad T(1), Scheibler S(2), von Kügelgen I(1), Scheele C(3), Kilić A(1), Glöde
A(1), Hoffmann LS(1), Reverte-Salisa L(2), Horn P(1), Mutlu S(1), El-Tayeb A(4), 
Kranz M(5), Deuther-Conrad W(5), Brust P(5), Lidell ME(6), Betz MJ(6), Enerbäck
S(6), Schrader J(7), Yegutkin GG(8), Müller CE(9), Pfeifer A(10).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University Hospital, University of
Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(2)1] Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University Hospital, University
of Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany [2] Research Training Group 1873, University of
Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(3)The Centre of Inflammation and Metabolism and the Centre for Physical Activity
Research, Department of Infectious Diseases, Rigshospitalet, 2100 Copenhagen,
Denmark.
(4)Pharmaceutical Institute, Pharmaceutical Chemistry I, University of Bonn,
53121 Bonn, Germany.
(5)Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden - Rossendorf, Institute of Radiopharmaceutical
Cancer Research, Research Site Leipzig, 04318 Leipzig, Germany.
(6)Department of Medical and Clinical Genetics, Institute of Biomedicine, The
Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 413 90 Gothenburg, Sweden.
(7)Department for Molecular Cardiology, University of Düsseldorf, 40225
Düsseldorf, Germany.
(8)Medicity Research Laboratory, University of Turku, 20520 Turku, Finland.
(9)1] Pharmaceutical Institute, Pharmaceutical Chemistry I, University of Bonn,
53121 Bonn, Germany [2] Pharma Center, University of Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(10)1] Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University Hospital, University 
of Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany [2] Pharma Center, University of Bonn, 53127 Bonn,
Germany.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2015 Feb;25(2):155-6.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2015 Jan;11(1):3.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Dec;13(12):886-7.

Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is specialized in energy expenditure, making it a
potential target for anti-obesity therapies. Following exposure to cold, BAT is
activated by the sympathetic nervous system with concomitant release of
catecholamines and activation of β-adrenergic receptors. Because BAT therapies
based on cold exposure or β-adrenergic agonists are clinically not feasible,
alternative strategies must be explored. Purinergic co-transmission might be
involved in sympathetic control of BAT and previous studies reported inhibitory
effects of the purinergic transmitter adenosine in BAT from hamster or rat.
However, the role of adenosine in human BAT is unknown. Here we show that
adenosine activates human and murine brown adipocytes at low nanomolar
concentrations. Adenosine is released in BAT during stimulation of sympathetic
nerves as well as from brown adipocytes. The adenosine A2A receptor is the most
abundant adenosine receptor in human and murine BAT. Pharmacological blockade or 
genetic loss of A2A receptors in mice causes a decrease in BAT-dependent
thermogenesis, whereas treatment with A2A agonists significantly increases energy
expenditure. Moreover, pharmacological stimulation of A2A receptors or injection 
of lentiviral vectors expressing the A2A receptor into white fat induces
brown-like cells-so-called beige adipocytes. Importantly, mice fed a high-fat
diet and treated with an A2A agonist are leaner with improved glucose tolerance. 
Taken together, our results demonstrate that adenosine-A2A signalling plays an
unexpected physiological role in sympathetic BAT activation and protects mice
from diet-induced obesity. Those findings reveal new possibilities for developing
novel obesity therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13816 
PMID: 25317558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):405-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13804. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Primate-specific endogenous retrovirus-driven transcription defines naive-like
stem cells.

Wang J(1), Xie G(2), Singh M(1), Ghanbarian AT(3), Raskó T(1), Szvetnik A(1), Cai
H(1), Besser D(1), Prigione A(1), Fuchs NV(4), Schumann GG(5), Chen W(1), Lorincz
MC(6), Ivics Z(5), Hurst LD(3), Izsvák Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13125
Berlin, Germany.
(2)1] Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13125
Berlin, Germany [2] Key Laboratory of Computational Biology, CAS-MPG Partner
Institute for Computational Biology, 320 Yueyang Road, Shanghai 200031, China.
(3)University of Bath, Department of Biology and Biochemistry, Bath, Somerset BA2
7AY, UK.
(4)1] Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13125
Berlin, Germany [2] Paul-Ehrlich-Institute, Division of Medical Biotechnology,
Paul-Ehrlich-Strasse 51-59, 63225 Langen, Germany.
(5)Paul-Ehrlich-Institute, Division of Medical Biotechnology,
Paul-Ehrlich-Strasse 51-59, 63225 Langen, Germany.
(6)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada.

Naive embryonic stem cells hold great promise for research and therapeutics as
they have broad and robust developmental potential. While such cells are readily 
derived from mouse blastocysts it has not been possible to isolate human
equivalents easily, although human naive-like cells have been artificially
generated (rather than extracted) by coercion of human primed embryonic stem
cells by modifying culture conditions or through transgenic modification. Here we
show that a sub-population within cultures of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) 
and induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) manifests key properties of naive
state cells. These naive-like cells can be genetically tagged, and are associated
with elevated transcription of HERVH, a primate-specific endogenous retrovirus.
HERVH elements provide functional binding sites for a combination of naive
pluripotency transcription factors, including LBP9, recently recognized as
relevant to naivety in mice. LBP9-HERVH drives hESC-specific alternative and
chimaeric transcripts, including pluripotency-modulating long non-coding RNAs.
Disruption of LBP9, HERVH and HERVH-derived transcripts compromises self-renewal.
These observations define HERVH expression as a hallmark of naive-like hESCs, and
establish novel primate-specific transcriptional circuitry regulating
pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13804 
PMID: 25317556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):432-435. doi: 10.1038/nature13833. Epub 2014 Oct
12.

Cohesin-dependent globules and heterochromatin shape 3D genome architecture in S.
pombe.

Mizuguchi T(#)(1), Fudenberg G(#)(2)(3), Mehta S(1), Belton JM(4), Taneja N(1),
Folco HD(1), FitzGerald P(5), Dekker J(4), Mirny L(2)(3), Barrowman J(1), Grewal 
SIS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(2)Graduate Program in Biophysics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA.
(3)Institute for Medical Engineering and Sciences, Department of Physics,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA.
(4)Program in Systems Biology University of Massachusetts Medical School
Worcester, MA, 01605, USA.
(5)Genome Analysis Unit National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Dec;15(12):780.

Eukaryotic genomes are folded into three-dimensional structures, such as
self-associating topological domains, the borders of which are enriched in
cohesin and CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) required for long-range interactions. How
local chromatin interactions govern higher-order folding of chromatin fibres and 
the function of cohesin in this process remain poorly understood. Here we perform
genome-wide chromatin conformation capture (Hi-C) analysis to explore the
high-resolution organization of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe genome, which
despite its small size exhibits fundamental features found in other eukaryotes.
Our analyses of wild-type and mutant strains reveal key elements of chromosome
architecture and genome organization. On chromosome arms, small regions of
chromatin locally interact to form 'globules'. This feature requires a function
of cohesin distinct from its role in sister chromatid cohesion. Cohesin is
enriched at globule boundaries and its loss causes disruption of local globule
structures and global chromosome territories. By contrast, heterochromatin, which
loads cohesin at specific sites including pericentromeric and subtelomeric
domains, is dispensable for globule formation but nevertheless affects genome
organization. We show that heterochromatin mediates chromatin fibre compaction at
centromeres and promotes prominent inter-arm interactions within
centromere-proximal regions, providing structural constraints crucial for proper 
genome organization. Loss of heterochromatin relaxes constraints on chromosomes, 
causing an increase in intra- and inter-chromosomal interactions. Together, our
analyses uncover fundamental genome folding principles that drive higher-order
chromosome organization crucial for coordinating nuclear functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13833 
PMCID: PMC4465753
PMID: 25307058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):436-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13787. Epub 2014 Oct 5.

R-loops induce repressive chromatin marks over mammalian gene terminators.

Skourti-Stathaki K(1), Kamieniarz-Gdula K(1), Proudfoot NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, South Parks Road, University of Oxford, 
Oxford OX1 3RE, UK.

The formation of R-loops is a natural consequence of the transcription process,
caused by invasion of the DNA duplex by nascent transcripts. These structures
have been considered rare transcriptional by-products with potentially harmful
effects on genome integrity owing to the fragility of the displaced DNA coding
strand. However, R-loops may also possess beneficial effects, as their widespread
formation has been detected over CpG island promoters in human genes.
Furthermore, we have previously shown that R-loops are particularly enriched over
G-rich terminator elements. These facilitate RNA polymerase II (Pol II) pausing
before efficient termination. Here we reveal an unanticipated link between
R-loops and RNA-interference-dependent H3K9me2 formation over pause-site
termination regions in mammalian protein-coding genes. We show that R-loops
induce antisense transcription over these pause elements, which in turn leads to 
the generation of double-stranded RNA and the recruitment of DICER, AGO1, AGO2
and the G9a histone lysine methyltransferase. Consequently, an H3K9me2 repressive
mark is formed and heterochromatin protein 1γ (HP1γ) is recruited, which
reinforces Pol II pausing before efficient transcriptional termination. We
predict that R-loops promote a chromatin architecture that defines the
termination region for a substantial subset of mammalian genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13787 
PMCID: PMC4272244
PMID: 25296254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):418-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13764. Epub 2014 Oct 5.

Rapid development of broadly influenza neutralizing antibodies through redundant 
mutations.

Pappas L(1), Foglierini M(1), Piccoli L(1), Kallewaard NL(2), Turrini F(3),
Silacci C(1), Fernandez-Rodriguez B(1), Agatic G(4), Giacchetto-Sasselli I(1),
Pellicciotta G(5), Sallusto F(1), Zhu Q(2), Vicenzi E(3), Corti D(6),
Lanzavecchia A(7).

Author information: 
(1)Insitute for Research in Biomedicine, Università della Svizzera Italiana, Via 
Vincenzo Vela 6, 6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases and Vaccines MedImmune LLC, One MedImmune
Way, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20878, USA.
(3)Viral Pathogens and Biosafety Unit, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Via
Olgettina 58, 20132 Milan, Italy.
(4)Humabs BioMed SA, Via Mirasole 1, 6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland.
(5)Unit of Preventive Medicine, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Via Olgettina 
58, 20132 Milan, Italy.
(6)1] Insitute for Research in Biomedicine, Università della Svizzera Italiana,
Via Vincenzo Vela 6, 6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland [2] Humabs BioMed SA, Via
Mirasole 1, 6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland [3].
(7)1] Insitute for Research in Biomedicine, Università della Svizzera Italiana,
Via Vincenzo Vela 6, 6500 Bellinzona, Switzerland [2] Insitute for Microbiology, 
ETH Zurich, Wolfgang-Pauli-Strasse 10, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland [3].

The neutralizing antibody response to influenza virus is dominated by antibodies 
that bind to the globular head of haemagglutinin, which undergoes a continuous
antigenic drift, necessitating the re-formulation of influenza vaccines on an
annual basis. Recently, several laboratories have described a new class of rare
influenza-neutralizing antibodies that target a conserved site in the
haemagglutinin stem. Most of these antibodies use the heavy-chain variable region
VH1-69 gene, and structural data demonstrate that they bind to the haemagglutinin
stem through conserved heavy-chain complementarity determining region (HCDR)
residues. However, the VH1-69 antibodies are highly mutated and are produced by
some but not all individuals, suggesting that several somatic mutations may be
required for their development. To address this, here we characterize 197
anti-stem antibodies from a single donor, reconstruct the developmental pathways 
of several VH1-69 clones and identify two key elements that are required for the 
initial development of most VH1-69 antibodies: a polymorphic germline-encoded
phenylalanine at position 54 and a conserved tyrosine at position 98 in HCDR3.
Strikingly, in most cases a single proline to alanine mutation at position 52a in
HCDR2 is sufficient to confer high affinity binding to the selecting H1 antigen, 
consistent with rapid affinity maturation. Surprisingly, additional favourable
mutations continue to accumulate, increasing the breadth of reactivity and making
both the initial mutations and phenylalanine at position 54 functionally
redundant. These results define VH1-69 allele polymorphism, rearrangement of the 
VDJ gene segments and single somatic mutations as the three requirements for
generating broadly neutralizing VH1-69 antibodies and reveal an unexpected
redundancy in the affinity maturation process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13764 
PMID: 25296253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):414-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13818. Epub 2014 Sep 28.

Mitochondrial UPR-regulated innate immunity provides resistance to pathogen
infection.

Pellegrino MW(1), Nargund AM(1), Kirienko NV(2), Gillis R(1), Fiorese CJ(3),
Haynes CM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)1] Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)BCMB Allied Program, Weill Cornell Medical College, 1300 York Avenue, New
York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)1] Cell Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA [2] BCMB Allied Program, Weill Cornell
Medical College, 1300 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Metazoans identify and eliminate bacterial pathogens in microbe-rich environments
such as the intestinal lumen; however, the mechanisms are unclear. Host cells
could potentially use intracellular surveillance or stress response programs to
detect pathogens that target monitored cellular activities and then initiate
innate immune responses. Mitochondrial function is evaluated by monitoring
mitochondrial protein import efficiency of the transcription factor ATFS-1, which
mediates the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPR(mt)). During
mitochondrial stress, mitochondrial import is impaired, allowing ATFS-1 to
traffic to the nucleus where it mediates a transcriptional response to
re-establish mitochondrial homeostasis. Here we examined the role of ATFS-1 in
Caenorhabditis elegans during pathogen exposure, because during mitochondrial
stress ATFS-1 induced not only mitochondrial protective genes but also innate
immune genes that included a secreted lysozyme and anti-microbial peptides.
Exposure to the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa caused mitochondrial dysfunction 
and activation of the UPR(mt). C. elegans lacking atfs-1 were susceptible to P.
aeruginosa, whereas hyper-activation of ATFS-1 and the UPR(mt) improved clearance
of P. aeruginosa from the intestine and prolonged C. elegans survival in a manner
mainly independent of known innate immune pathways. We propose that ATFS-1 import
efficiency and the UPR(mt) is a means to detect pathogens that target
mitochondria and initiate a protective innate immune response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13818 
PMCID: PMC4270954
PMID: 25274306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):234-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13971.

Isotopic constraints on marine and terrestrial N2O emissions during the last
deglaciation.

Schilt A(1), Brook EJ(2), Bauska TK(2), Baggenstos D(3), Fischer H(4), Joos F(4),
Petrenko VV(5), Schaefer H(6), Schmitt J(4), Severinghaus JP(3), Spahni R(4),
Stocker TF(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA [2] Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics
Institute, and Oeschger Centre for Climate Change Research, University of Bern,
3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(2)College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(3)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego,
California 92037, USA.
(4)Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, and Oeschger Centre for 
Climate Change Research, University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Rochester,
Rochester, New York 14627, USA.
(6)National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Wellington 6021, New
Zealand.

Nitrous oxide (N2O) is an important greenhouse gas and ozone-depleting substance 
that has anthropogenic as well as natural marine and terrestrial sources. The
tropospheric N2O concentrations have varied substantially in the past in concert 
with changing climate on glacial-interglacial and millennial timescales. It is
not well understood, however, how N2O emissions from marine and terrestrial
sources change in response to varying environmental conditions. The distinct
isotopic compositions of marine and terrestrial N2O sources can help disentangle 
the relative changes in marine and terrestrial N2O emissions during past climate 
variations. Here we present N2O concentration and isotopic data for the last
deglaciation, from 16,000 to 10,000 years before present, retrieved from air
bubbles trapped in polar ice at Taylor Glacier, Antarctica. With the help of our 
data and a box model of the N2O cycle, we find a 30 per cent increase in total
N2O emissions from the late glacial to the interglacial, with terrestrial and
marine emissions contributing equally to the overall increase and generally
evolving in parallel over the last deglaciation, even though there is no a priori
connection between the drivers of the two sources. However, we find that
terrestrial emissions dominated on centennial timescales, consistent with a
state-of-the-art dynamic global vegetation and land surface process model that
suggests that during the last deglaciation emission changes were strongly
influenced by temperature and precipitation patterns over land surfaces. The
results improve our understanding of the drivers of natural N2O emissions and are
consistent with the idea that natural N2O emissions will probably increase in
response to anthropogenic warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13971 
PMID: 25503236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):231-3. doi: 10.1038/nature14014.

Formation and properties of ice XVI obtained by emptying a type sII clathrate
hydrate.

Falenty A(1), Hansen TC(2), Kuhs WF(1).

Author information: 
(1)GZG Abteilung Kristallographie, Universität Göttingen, Goldschmidtstrasse 1,
37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL), 71 avenue des Martyrs, 38000 Grenoble, France.

Gas hydrates are ice-like solids, in which guest molecules or atoms are trapped
inside cages formed within a crystalline host framework (clathrate) of
hydrogen-bonded water molecules. They are naturally present in large quantities
on the deep ocean floor and as permafrost, can form in and block gas pipelines,
and are thought to occur widely on Earth and beyond. A natural point of reference
for this large and ubiquitous family of inclusion compounds is the empty hydrate 
lattice, which is usually regarded as experimentally inaccessible because the
guest species stabilize the host framework. However, it has been suggested that
sufficiently small guests may be removed to leave behind metastable empty
clathrates, and guest-free Si- and Ge-clathrates have indeed been obtained. Here 
we show that this strategy can also be applied to water-based clathrates: five
days of continuous vacuum pumping on small particles of neon hydrate (of
structure sII) removes all guests, allowing us to determine the crystal
structure, thermal expansivity and limit of metastability of the empty hydrate.
It is the seventeenth experimentally established crystalline ice phase, ice XVI
according to the current ice nomenclature, has a density of 0.81 grams per cubic 
centimetre (making it the least dense of all known crystalline water phases) and 
is expected to be the stable low-temperature phase of water at negative pressures
(that is, under tension). We find that the empty hydrate structure exhibits
negative thermal expansion below about 55 kelvin, and that it is mechanically
more stable and has at low temperatures larger lattice constants than the filled 
hydrate. These observations attest to the importance of kinetic effects and
host-guest interactions in clathrate hydrates, with further characterization of
the empty hydrate expected to improve our understanding of the structure,
properties and behaviour of these unique materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14014 
PMID: 25503235 


110. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):222-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14002.

Ultrasensitive mechanical crack-based sensor inspired by the spider sensory
system.

Kang D(1), Pikhitsa PV(2), Choi YW(2), Lee C(2), Shin SS(2), Piao L(2), Park
B(3), Suh KY(4), Kim TI(3), Choi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Global Frontier Center for Multiscale Energy Systems, Department of
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742,
South Korea [2] Division of WCU Multiscale Mechanical Design, Department of
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742,
South Korea.
(2)Global Frontier Center for Multiscale Energy Systems, Department of Mechanical
and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742, South Korea.
(3)1] Center for Neuroscience Imaging Research (CNIR), Institute for Basic
Science (IBS), Suwon 440-746, South Korea [2] School of Chemical Engineering,
Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU), Suwon 440-746, South Korea.
(4)1] Global Frontier Center for Multiscale Energy Systems, Department of
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742,
South Korea [2] Division of WCU Multiscale Mechanical Design, Department of
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742,
South Korea [3] Interdisciplinary Program of Bioengineering, Seoul National
University, Seoul 151-742, South Korea.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):178-9.

Recently developed flexible mechanosensors based on inorganic silicon, organic
semiconductors, carbon nanotubes, graphene platelets, pressure-sensitive rubber
and self-powered devices are highly sensitive and can be applied to human skin.
However, the development of a multifunctional sensor satisfying the requirements 
of ultrahigh mechanosensitivity, flexibility and durability remains a challenge. 
In nature, spiders sense extremely small variations in mechanical stress using
crack-shaped slit organs near their leg joints. Here we demonstrate that sensors 
based on nanoscale crack junctions and inspired by the geometry of a spider's
slit organ can attain ultrahigh sensitivity and serve multiple purposes. The
sensors are sensitive to strain (with a gauge factor of over 2,000 in the 0-2 per
cent strain range) and vibration (with the ability to detect amplitudes of
approximately 10 nanometres). The device is reversible, reproducible, durable and
mechanically flexible, and can thus be easily mounted on human skin as an
electronic multipixel array. The ultrahigh mechanosensitivity is attributed to
the disconnection-reconnection process undergone by the zip-like nanoscale crack 
junctions under strain or vibration. The proposed theoretical model is consistent
with experimental data that we report here. We also demonstrate that sensors
based on nanoscale crack junctions are applicable to highly selective speech
pattern recognition and the detection of physiological signals. The nanoscale
crack junction-based sensory system could be useful in diverse applications
requiring ultrahigh displacement sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14002 
PMID: 25503234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):198-206. doi: 10.1038/nature14046.

Genome-wide characterization of the routes to pluripotency.

Hussein SM(1), Puri MC(2), Tonge PD(1), Benevento M(3), Corso AJ(4), Clancy
JL(5), Mosbergen R(6), Li M(1), Lee DS(7), Cloonan N(8), Wood DL(8), Munoz J(3), 
Middleton R(9), Korn O(6), Patel HR(10), White CA(11), Shin JY(12), Gauthier
ME(8), Lê Cao KA(8), Kim JI(7), Mar JC(13), Shakiba N(14), Ritchie W(9), Rasko
JE(15), Grimmond SM(8), Zandstra PW(11), Wells CA(16), Preiss T(17), Seo JS(18), 
Heck AJ(3), Rogers IM(19), Nagy A(20).

Author information: 
(1)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 1X5, Canada.
(2)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Department of Medical Biophysics, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.
(3)1] Biomolecular Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics, Bijvoet Center for
Biomolecular Research and Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht 
University, Padualaan 8, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands [2] Netherlands
Proteomics Centre, Padualaan 8, 3584CH Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.
(5)Genome Biology Department, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The
Australian National University, Acton (Canberra), ACT 2601, Australia.
(6)Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(7)1] Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [2] Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Biochemistry, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 110-799, South
Korea.
(8)Queensland Centre for Medical Genomics, Institute for Molecular Bioscience,
The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(9)Gene and Stem Cell Therapy Program and Bioinformatics Lab, Centenary
Institute, Camperdown 2050, NSW, Australia &Sydney Medical School, 31 University 
of Sydney 2006, New South Wales, Australia.
(10)1] Genome Biology Department, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The
Australian National University, Acton (Canberra), ACT 2601, Australia [2] Genome 
Discovery Unit, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The Australian
National University, Acton (Canberra) 2601, ACT, Australia.
(11)1] Institute of Biomaterials and Biomedical Engineering (IBBME), University
of Toronto, Toronto M5S-3G9, Canada [2] The Donnelly Centre for Cellular and
Biomolecular Research (CCBR), University of Toronto, Toronto M5S 3E1, Canada.
(12)1] Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [2] Life Science Institute, Macrogen Inc.,
Seoul 153-781, South Korea.
(13)Department of Systems &Computational Biology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine of Yeshiva University, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.
(14)Institute of Biomaterials and Biomedical Engineering (IBBME), University of
Toronto, Toronto M5S-3G9, Canada.
(15)1] Gene and Stem Cell Therapy Program and Bioinformatics Lab, Centenary
Institute, Camperdown 2050, NSW, Australia &Sydney Medical School, 31 University 
of Sydney 2006, New South Wales, Australia [2] Cell and Molecular Therapies,
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Camperdown 2050, New South Wales, Australia.
(16)1] Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, The University
of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia [2] College of Medical,
Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8TA, UK.
(17)1] Genome Biology Department, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The
Australian National University, Acton (Canberra), ACT 2601, Australia [2] Victor 
Chang Cardiac Research Institute, Darlinghurst (Sydney), New South Wales 2010,
Australia.
(18)1] Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [2] Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Biochemistry, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 110-799, South
Korea [3] Life Science Institute, Macrogen Inc., Seoul 153-781, South Korea.
(19)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Department of Physiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [3] Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1E2, Canada.
(20)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada [3] Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1E2, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Jul 30;523(7562):626.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):172-3.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2015 Feb;16(2):67.

Somatic cell reprogramming to a pluripotent state continues to challenge many of 
our assumptions about cellular specification, and despite major efforts, we lack 
a complete molecular characterization of the reprograming process. To address
this gap in knowledge, we generated extensive transcriptomic, epigenomic and
proteomic data sets describing the reprogramming routes leading from mouse
embryonic fibroblasts to induced pluripotency. Through integrative analysis, we
reveal that cells transition through distinct gene expression and epigenetic
signatures and bifurcate towards reprogramming transgene-dependent and
-independent stable pluripotent states. Early transcriptional events, driven by
high levels of reprogramming transcription factor expression, are associated with
widespread loss of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3) trimethylation, representing a
general opening of the chromatin state. Maintenance of high transgene levels
leads to re-acquisition of H3K27me3 and a stable pluripotent state that is
alternative to the embryonic stem cell (ESC)-like fate. Lowering transgene levels
at an intermediate phase, however, guides the process to the acquisition of
ESC-like chromatin and DNA methylation signature. Our data provide a
comprehensive molecular description of the reprogramming routes and is accessible
through the Project Grandiose portal at http://www.stemformatics.org.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14046 
PMID: 25503233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):192-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14047.

Divergent reprogramming routes lead to alternative stem-cell states.

Tonge PD(1), Corso AJ(2), Monetti C(1), Hussein SM(1), Puri MC(3), Michael IP(4),
Li M(1), Lee DS(5), Mar JC(6), Cloonan N(7), Wood DL(7), Gauthier ME(7), Korn
O(8), Clancy JL(9), Preiss T(10), Grimmond SM(7), Shin JY(11), Seo JS(12), Wells 
CA(8), Rogers IM(13), Nagy A(14).

Author information: 
(1)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 1X5, Canada.
(2)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.
(3)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Department of Medical Biophysics, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.
(4)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.
(5)1] Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [2] Department of Biomedical Sciences,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [3]
Department of Biochemistry, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 
110-799, South Korea.
(6)Department of Systems &Computational Biology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine of Yeshiva University, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.
(7)Queensland Centre for Medical Genomics, Institute for Molecular Bioscience,
The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(8)Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(9)Genome Biology Department, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The
Australian National University, Acton (Canberra), Australian Capital Territory
2601, Australia.
(10)1] Genome Biology Department, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The
Australian National University, Acton (Canberra), Australian Capital Territory
2601, Australia [2] Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute, Darlinghurst
(Sydney), New South Wales 2010, Australia.
(11)1] Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [2] Life Science Institute, Macrogen Inc.,
Seoul 153-781, South Korea.
(12)1] Genomic Medicine Institute, Medical Research Center, Seoul National
University, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [2] Department of Biomedical Sciences,
Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 110-799, South Korea [3]
Department of Biochemistry, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 
110-799, South Korea [4] Life Science Institute, Macrogen Inc., Seoul 153-781,
South Korea.
(13)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Department of Physiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada [3] Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.
(14)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada [2] Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada [3] Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5T 3H7, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Jul 30;523(7562):626.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):172-3.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2015 Feb;16(2):67.

Pluripotency is defined by the ability of a cell to differentiate to the
derivatives of all the three embryonic germ layers: ectoderm, mesoderm and
endoderm. Pluripotent cells can be captured via the archetypal derivation of
embryonic stem cells or via somatic cell reprogramming. Somatic cells are induced
to acquire a pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) state through the forced expression of 
key transcription factors, and in the mouse these cells can fulfil the strictest 
of all developmental assays for pluripotent cells by generating completely
iPSC-derived embryos and mice. However, it is not known whether there are
additional classes of pluripotent cells, or what the spectrum of reprogrammed
phenotypes encompasses. Here we explore alternative outcomes of somatic
reprogramming by fully characterizing reprogrammed cells independent of
preconceived definitions of iPSC states. We demonstrate that by maintaining
elevated reprogramming factor expression levels, mouse embryonic fibroblasts go
through unique epigenetic modifications to arrive at a stable, Nanog-positive,
alternative pluripotent state. In doing so, we prove that the pluripotent
spectrum can encompass multiple, unique cell states.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14047 
PMID: 25503232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):181-91. doi: 10.1038/nature14007.

Catalytic enantioselective synthesis of quaternary carbon stereocentres.

Quasdorf KW(1), Overman LE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, 1102 Natural Sciences II, University of California,
Irvine, California 92697-2025, USA.

Quaternary carbon stereocentres-carbon atoms to which four distinct carbon
substituents are attached-are common features of molecules found in nature.
However, before recent advances in chemical catalysis, there were few methods of 
constructing single stereoisomers of this important structural motif. Here we
discuss the many catalytic enantioselective reactions developed during the past
decade for the synthesis of single stereoisomers of such organic molecules. This 
progress now makes it possible to incorporate quaternary stereocentres
selectively in many organic molecules that are useful in medicine, agriculture
and potentially other areas such as flavouring, fragrances and materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14007 
PMCID: PMC4697831
PMID: 25503231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):227-30. doi: 10.1038/nature14015. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Proton transport through one-atom-thick crystals.

Hu S(1), Lozada-Hidalgo M(2), Wang FC(3), Mishchenko A(2), Schedin F(4), Nair
RR(2), Hill EW(4), Boukhvalov DW(5), Katsnelson MI(5), Dryfe RA(6), Grigorieva
IV(2), Wu HA(3), Geim AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Manchester, Manchester
M13 9PL, UK [2] Manchester Centre for Mesoscience and Nanotechnology, The
University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(2)School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 
9PL, UK.
(3)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Mechanical Behavior and Design
of Materials, Department of Modern Mechanics, University of Science and
Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230027, China.
(4)Manchester Centre for Mesoscience and Nanotechnology, The University of
Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(5)Institute for Molecules and Materials, Radboud University of Nijmegen, 6525 AJ
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(6)School of Chemistry, The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):173-5.

Graphene is increasingly explored as a possible platform for developing novel
separation technologies. This interest has arisen because it is a maximally thin 
membrane that, once perforated with atomic accuracy, may allow ultrafast and
highly selective sieving of gases, liquids, dissolved ions and other species of
interest. However, a perfect graphene monolayer is impermeable to all atoms and
molecules under ambient conditions: even hydrogen, the smallest of atoms, is
expected to take billions of years to penetrate graphene's dense electronic
cloud. Only accelerated atoms possess the kinetic energy required to do this. The
same behaviour might reasonably be expected in the case of other atomically thin 
crystals. Here we report transport and mass spectroscopy measurements which
establish that monolayers of graphene and hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) are
highly permeable to thermal protons under ambient conditions, whereas no proton
transport is detected for thicker crystals such as monolayer molybdenum
disulphide, bilayer graphene or multilayer hBN. Protons present an intermediate
case between electrons (which can tunnel easily through atomically thin barriers)
and atoms, yet our measured transport rates are unexpectedly high and raise
fundamental questions about the details of the transport process. We see the
highest room-temperature proton conductivity with monolayer hBN, for which we
measure a resistivity to proton flow of about 10 Ω cm(2) and a low activation
energy of about 0.3 electronvolts. At higher temperatures, hBN is outperformed by
graphene, the resistivity of which is estimated to fall below 10(-3) Ω cm(2)
above 250 degrees Celsius. Proton transport can be further enhanced by decorating
the graphene and hBN membranes with catalytic metal nanoparticles. The high,
selective proton conductivity and stability make one-atom-thick crystals
promising candidates for use in many hydrogen-based technologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14015 
PMID: 25470058 


115. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):259-262. doi: 10.1038/nature13966. Epub 2014 Nov
26.

MapZ marks the division sites and positions FtsZ rings in Streptococcus
pneumoniae.

Fleurie A(#)(1), Lesterlin C(#)(2), Manuse S(#)(1), Zhao C(1), Cluzel C(3),
Lavergne JP(1), Franz-Wachtel M(4), Macek B(4), Combet C(1), Kuru E(5),
VanNieuwenhze MS(5), Brun YV(5), Sherratt D(2), Grangeasse C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bases Moléculaires et Structurales des Systèmes Infectieux, IBCP, Université
Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR 5086, Lyon, 69007, France.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, South parks road, OX1 3QU,
United Kingdom.
(3)Laboratoire de Biologie Tissulaire et d'Ingénierie Thrérapeutique, IBCP,
Université Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR 5305, Lyon, 69007, France.
(4)Proteome Center Tübingen, University of Tübingen, Auf der Morgenstelle 15,
Tuebingen, 72076, Germany.
(5)Departments of Biology and Chemistry, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN
47405, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Trends Microbiol. 2015 Mar;23(3):121-2.
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):175-6.
    Cell Cycle. 2015;14(7):937-8.

In every living organism, cell division requires accurate identification of the
division site and placement of the division machinery. In bacteria, this process 
is traditionally considered to begin with the polymerization of the highly
conserved tubulin-like protein FtsZ into a ring that locates precisely at
mid-cell. Over the past decades, several systems have been reported to regulate
the spatiotemporal assembly and placement of the FtsZ ring. However, the human
pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae, in common with many other organisms, is devoid
of these canonical systems and the mechanisms of positioning the division
machinery remain unknown. Here we characterize a novel factor that locates at the
division site before FtsZ and guides septum positioning in pneumococcus.
Mid-cell-anchored protein Z (MapZ) forms ring structures at the cell equator and 
moves apart as the cell elongates, therefore behaving as a permanent beacon of
division sites. MapZ then positions the FtsZ ring through direct protein-protein 
interactions. MapZ-mediated control differs from previously described systems
mostly on the basis of negative regulation of FtsZ assembly. Furthermore, MapZ is
an endogenous target of the Ser/Thr kinase StkP, which was recently shown to have
a central role in cytokinesis and morphogenesis of S. pneumoniae. We show that
both phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms of MapZ are required for proper 
Z-ring formation and dynamics. Altogether, this work uncovers a new mechanism for
bacterial cell division that is regulated by phosphorylation and illustrates that
nature has evolved a diversity of cell division mechanisms adapted to the
different bacterial clades.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13966 
PMCID: PMC4268495
PMID: 25470041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):219-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13924. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

H2D(+) observations give an age of at least one million years for a cloud core
forming Sun-like stars.

Brünken S(1), Sipilä O(2), Chambers ET(1), Harju J(3), Caselli P(4), Asvany O(1),
Honingh CE(1), Kamiński T(5), Menten KM(5), Stutzki J(1), Schlemmer S(1).

Author information: 
(1)I. Physikalisches Institut, Universität zu Köln, Zülpicher Straße 77, 50937
Köln, Germany.
(2)1] Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland [2]
Max-Planck Institut für Extraterrestrische Physik, Gießenbachstraße 1, 85741
Garching bei München, Germany.
(3)Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland.
(4)1] Max-Planck Institut für Extraterrestrische Physik, Gießenbachstraße 1,
85741 Garching bei München, Germany [2] School of Physics and Astronomy,
University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(5)Max-Planck Institut für Radioastronomie, Auf dem Hügel 69, 53121 Bonn,
Germany.

The age of dense interstellar cloud cores, where stars and planets form, is a
crucial parameter in star formation and difficult to measure. Some models predict
rapid collapse, whereas others predict timescales of more than one million years 
(ref. 3). One possible approach to determining the age is through chemical
changes as cloud contraction occurs, in particular through indirect measurements 
of the ratio of the two spin isomers (ortho/para) of molecular hydrogen, H2,
which decreases monotonically with age. This has been done for the dense cloud
core L183, for which the deuterium fractionation of diazenylium (N2H(+)) was used
as a chemical clock to infer that the core has contracted rapidly (on a timescale
of less than 700,000 years). Among astronomically observable molecules, the spin 
isomers of the deuterated trihydrogen cation, ortho-H2D(+) and para-H2D(+), have 
the most direct chemical connections to H2 (refs 8, 9, 10, 11, 12) and their
abundance ratio provides a chemical clock that is sensitive to greater cloud core
ages. So far this ratio has not been determined because para-H2D(+) is very
difficult to observe. The detection of its rotational ground-state line has only 
now become possible thanks to accurate measurements of its transition frequency
in the laboratory, and recent progress in instrumentation technology. Here we
report observations of ortho- and para-H2D(+) emission and absorption,
respectively, from the dense cloud core hosting IRAS 16293-2422 A/B, a group of
nascent solar-type stars (with ages of less than 100,000 years). Using the
ortho/para ratio in conjunction with chemical models, we find that the dense core
has been chemically processed for at least one million years. The apparent
discrepancy with the earlier N2H(+) work arises because that chemical clock turns
off sooner than the H2D(+) clock, but both results imply that star-forming dense 
cores have ages of about one million years, rather than 100,000 years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13924 
PMID: 25409140 


117. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):207-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13984. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

X-ray structure of a calcium-activated TMEM16 lipid scramblase.

Brunner JD(1), Lim NK(1), Schenck S(1), Duerst A(1), Dutzler R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

The TMEM16 family of proteins, also known as anoctamins, features a remarkable
functional diversity. This family contains the long sought-after Ca(2+)-activated
chloride channels as well as lipid scramblases and cation channels. Here we
present the crystal structure of a TMEM16 family member from the fungus Nectria
haematococca that operates as a Ca(2+)-activated lipid scramblase. Each subunit
of the homodimeric protein contains ten transmembrane helices and a hydrophilic
membrane-traversing cavity that is exposed to the lipid bilayer as a potential
site of catalysis. This cavity harbours a conserved Ca(2+)-binding site located
within the hydrophobic core of the membrane. Mutations of residues involved in
Ca(2+) coordination affect both lipid scrambling in N. haematococca TMEM16 and
ion conduction in the Cl(-) channel TMEM16A. The structure reveals the general
architecture of the family and its mode of Ca(2+) activation. It also provides
insight into potential scrambling mechanisms and serves as a framework to unravel
the conduction of ions in certain TMEM16 proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13984 
PMID: 25383531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):213-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13913. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Structure and insights into the function of a Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channel.

Kane Dickson V(1), Pedi L(1), Long SB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Bestrophin calcium-activated chloride channels (CaCCs) regulate the flow of
chloride and other monovalent anions across cellular membranes in response to
intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) levels. Mutations in bestrophin 1 (BEST1) cause
certain eye diseases. Here we present X-ray structures of chicken BEST1-Fab
complexes, at 2.85 Å resolution, with permeant anions and Ca(2+). Representing,
to our knowledge, the first structure of a CaCC, the eukaryotic BEST1 channel,
which recapitulates CaCC function in liposomes, is formed from a pentameric
assembly of subunits. Ca(2+) binds to the channel's large cytosolic region. A
single ion pore, approximately 95 Å in length, is located along the central axis 
and contains at least 15 binding sites for anions. A hydrophobic neck within the 
pore probably forms the gate. Phenylalanine residues within it may coordinate
permeating anions via anion-π interactions. Conformational changes observed near 
the 'Ca(2+) clasp' hint at the mechanism of Ca(2+)-dependent gating.
Disease-causing mutations are prevalent within the gating apparatus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13913 
PMCID: PMC4454446
PMID: 25337878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):246-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13788. Epub 2014 Sep 28.

Dietary modulation of the microbiome affects autoinflammatory disease.

Lukens JR(1), Gurung P(1), Vogel P(2), Johnson GR(1), Carter RA(3), McGoldrick
DJ(3), Bandi SR(1), Calabrese CR(4), Vande Walle L(5), Lamkanfi M(5), Kanneganti 
TD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(2)Animal Resources Center and the Veterinary Pathology Core, St Jude Children's 
Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(3)Hartwell Center for Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, St Jude Children's
Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(4)Small Animal Imaging Core, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(5)1] Department of Medical Protein Research, VIB, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium [2]
Department of Biochemistry, Ghent University, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.

The incidences of chronic inflammatory disorders have increased considerably over
the past three decades. Recent shifts in dietary consumption may have contributed
importantly to this surge, but how dietary consumption modulates inflammatory
disease is poorly defined. Pstpip2(cmo) mice, which express a homozygous Leu98Pro
missense mutation in the Pombe Cdc15 homology family protein PSTPIP2
(proline-serine-threonine phosphatase interacting protein 2), spontaneously
develop osteomyelitis that resembles chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis
in humans. Recent reports demonstrated a crucial role for interleukin-1β (IL-1β) 
in osteomyelitis, but deletion of the inflammasome components caspase-1 and NLRP3
failed to rescue Pstpip2(cmo) mice from inflammatory bone disease. Thus, the
upstream mechanisms controlling IL-1β production in Pstpip2(cmo) mice remain to
be identified. In addition, the environmental factors driving IL-1β-dependent
inflammatory bone erosion are unknown. Here we show that the intestinal
microbiota of diseased Pstpip2(cmo) mice was characterized by an outgrowth of
Prevotella. Notably, Pstpip2(cmo) mice that were fed a diet rich in fat and
cholesterol maintained a normal body weight, but were markedly protected against 
inflammatory bone disease and bone erosion. Diet-induced protection against
osteomyelitis was accompanied by marked reductions in intestinal Prevotella
levels and significantly reduced pro-IL-1β expression in distant neutrophils.
Furthermore, pro-IL-1β expression was also decreased in Pstpip2(cmo) mice treated
with antibiotics, and in wild-type mice that were kept under germ-free
conditions. We further demonstrate that combined deletion of caspases 1 and 8 was
required for protection against IL-1β-dependent inflammatory bone disease,
whereas the deletion of either caspase alone or of elastase or neutrophil
proteinase 3 failed to prevent inflammatory disease. Collectively, this work
reveals diet-associated changes in the intestinal microbiome as a crucial factor 
regulating inflammasome- and caspase-8-mediated maturation of IL-1β and
osteomyelitis in Pstpip2(cmo) mice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13788 
PMCID: PMC4268032
PMID: 25274309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):254-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13765. Epub 2014 Sep 28.

Loss of signalling via Gα13 in germinal centre B-cell-derived lymphoma.

Muppidi JR(1), Schmitz R(2), Green JA(3), Xiao W(2), Larsen AB(4), Braun SE(5),
An J(5), Xu Y(5), Rosenwald A(6), Ott G(7), Gascoyne RD(8), Rimsza LM(9), Campo
E(10), Jaffe ES(11), Delabie J(12), Smeland EB(13), Braziel RM(14), Tubbs RR(15),
Cook JR(15), Weisenburger DD(16), Chan WC(17), Vaidehi N(4), Staudt LM(2), Cyster
JG(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, San
Francisco, California, 94143, USA [2] Department of Medicine, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(2)Lymphoid Malignancies Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, San
Francisco, California, 94143, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University
of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Immunology Program,
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)Division of Immunology, Beckman Research Institute of the City of Hope,
Duarte, California 91010, USA.
(5)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, San
Francisco, California, 94143, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University
of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of Würzburg, 97080 Würzburg, Germany.
(7)1] Department of Clinical Pathology, Robert-Bosch-Krankenhaus, Auerbachstraße 
110, 70376 Stuttgart, Germany [2] Dr. Margarete Fischer-Bosch Institute for
Clinical Pharmacology, 70376 Stuttgart, Germany.
(8)British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.
(9)Department of Pathology, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85724, USA.
(10)Hospital Clinic, University of Barcelona, 08036 Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Laboratory of Pathology, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(12)Pathology Clinic, Rikshospitalet University Hospital, 0372 Oslo, Norway.
(13)1] Institute for Cancer Research, Rikshospitalet University Hospital,
University of Oslo, 0310 Oslo, Norway [2] Center for Cancer Biomedicine, Faculty 
Division of the Norwegian Radium Hospital, University of Oslo, 0310 Oslo, Norway.
(14)Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(15)Cleveland Clinic Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Institute, Cleveland, Ohio
44195, USA.
(16)Department of Pathology, City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte,
California 91010, USA.
(17)1] Department of Pathology, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha,
Nebraska 68198, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, University of Nebraska
Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska 68198, USA.

Germinal centre B-cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (GCB-DLBCL) is a common
malignancy, yet the signalling pathways that are deregulated and the factors
leading to its systemic dissemination are poorly defined. Work in mice showed
that sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor-2 (S1PR2), a Gα12 and Gα13 coupled
receptor, promotes growth regulation and local confinement of germinal centre B
cells. Recent deep sequencing studies of GCB-DLBCL have revealed mutations in
many genes in this cancer, including in GNA13 (encoding Gα13) and S1PR2 (refs
5,6, 7). Here we show, using in vitro and in vivo assays, that
GCB-DLBCL-associated mutations occurring in S1PR2 frequently disrupt the
receptor's Akt and migration inhibitory functions. Gα13-deficient mouse germinal 
centre B cells and human GCB-DLBCL cells were unable to suppress pAkt and
migration in response to S1P, and Gα13-deficient mice developed germinal centre
B-cell-derived lymphoma. Germinal centre B cells, unlike most lymphocytes, are
tightly confined in lymphoid organs and do not recirculate. Remarkably,
deficiency in Gα13, but not S1PR2, led to germinal centre B-cell dissemination
into lymph and blood. GCB-DLBCL cell lines frequently carried mutations in the
Gα13 effector ARHGEF1, and Arhgef1 deficiency also led to germinal centre B-cell 
dissemination. The incomplete phenocopy of Gα13- and S1PR2 deficiency led us to
discover that P2RY8, an orphan receptor that is mutated in GCB-DLBCL and another 
germinal centre B-cell-derived malignancy, Burkitt's lymphoma, also represses
germinal centre B-cell growth and promotes confinement via Gα13. These findings
identify a Gα13-dependent pathway that exerts dual actions in suppressing growth 
and blocking dissemination of germinal centre B cells that is frequently
disrupted in germinal centre B-cell-derived lymphoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13765 
PMCID: PMC4267955
PMID: 25274307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):242-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13760. Epub 2014 Sep 28.

An evolutionary arms race between KRAB zinc-finger genes ZNF91/93 and SVA/L1
retrotransposons.

Jacobs FM(1), Greenberg D(2), Nguyen N(3), Haeussler M(4), Ewing AD(5), Katzman
S(4), Paten B(4), Salama SR(6), Haussler D(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, University of California
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] [3] Swammerdam Institute for
Life Sciences, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1098 XH, The Netherlands
(F.M.J.J.); Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, San Francisco,
California 94158, USA (D.G.); Mater Research Institute, University of Queensland,
Queensland 4101, Australia (A.D.E.).
(2)1] Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, University of California
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] Molecular, Cell and
Developmental Biology, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz,
California 95064, USA [3] [4] Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, University 
of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1098 XH, The Netherlands (F.M.J.J.); Gladstone Institute 
of Virology and Immunology, San Francisco, California 94158, USA (D.G.); Mater
Research Institute, University of Queensland, Queensland 4101, Australia
(A.D.E.).
(3)1] Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, University of California
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] Biomolecular Engineering,
University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(4)Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, University of California
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(5)1] Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, University of California
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] Swammerdam Institute for Life
Sciences, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1098 XH, The Netherlands (F.M.J.J.);
Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, San Francisco, California 94158, 
USA (D.G.); Mater Research Institute, University of Queensland, Queensland 4101, 
Australia (A.D.E.).
(6)1] Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, University of California
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064,
USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2014 Nov 10;31(3):257-8.

Throughout evolution primate genomes have been modified by waves of
retrotransposon insertions. For each wave, the host eventually finds a way to
repress retrotransposon transcription and prevent further insertions. In mouse
embryonic stem cells, transcriptional silencing of retrotransposons requires KAP1
(also known as TRIM28) and its repressive complex, which can be recruited to
target sites by KRAB zinc-finger (KZNF) proteins such as murine-specific ZFP809
which binds to integrated murine leukaemia virus DNA elements and recruits KAP1
to repress them. KZNF genes are one of the fastest growing gene families in
primates and this expansion is hypothesized to enable primates to respond to
newly emerged retrotransposons. However, the identity of KZNF genes battling
retrotransposons currently active in the human genome, such as SINE-VNTR-Alu
(SVA) and long interspersed nuclear element 1 (L1), is unknown. Here we show that
two primate-specific KZNF genes rapidly evolved to repress these two distinct
retrotransposon families shortly after they began to spread in our ancestral
genome. ZNF91 underwent a series of structural changes 8-12 million years ago
that enabled it to repress SVA elements. ZNF93 evolved earlier to repress the
primate L1 lineage until ∼12.5 million years ago when the L1PA3-subfamily of
retrotransposons escaped ZNF93's restriction through the removal of the
ZNF93-binding site. Our data support a model where KZNF gene expansion limits the
activity of newly emerged retrotransposon classes, and this is followed by
mutations in these retrotransposons to evade repression, a cycle of events that
could explain the rapid expansion of lineage-specific KZNF genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13760 
PMCID: PMC4268317
PMID: 25274305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):263-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13769. Epub 2014 Sep 28.

Programmable RNA recognition and cleavage by CRISPR/Cas9.

O'Connell MR(1), Oakes BL(1), Sternberg SH(2), East-Seletsky A(1), Kaplan M(3),
Doudna JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(3)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
(4)1] Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Chemistry, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [4] Physical
Biosciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2014 Nov;11(11):1090.

The CRISPR-associated protein Cas9 is an RNA-guided DNA endonuclease that uses
RNA-DNA complementarity to identify target sites for sequence-specific
double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) cleavage. In its native context, Cas9 acts on DNA
substrates exclusively because both binding and catalysis require recognition of 
a short DNA sequence, known as the protospacer adjacent motif (PAM), next to and 
on the strand opposite the twenty-nucleotide target site in dsDNA. Cas9 has
proven to be a versatile tool for genome engineering and gene regulation in a
large range of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell types, and in whole organisms, but
it has been thought to be incapable of targeting RNA. Here we show that Cas9
binds with high affinity to single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) targets matching the
Cas9-associated guide RNA sequence when the PAM is presented in trans as a
separate DNA oligonucleotide. Furthermore, PAM-presenting oligonucleotides
(PAMmers) stimulate site-specific endonucleolytic cleavage of ssRNA targets,
similar to PAM-mediated stimulation of Cas9-catalysed DNA cleavage. Using
specially designed PAMmers, Cas9 can be specifically directed to bind or cut RNA 
targets while avoiding corresponding DNA sequences, and we demonstrate that this 
strategy enables the isolation of a specific endogenous messenger RNA from cells.
These results reveal a fundamental connection between PAM binding and substrate
selection by Cas9, and highlight the utility of Cas9 for programmable transcript 
recognition without the need for tags.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13769 
PMCID: PMC4268322
PMID: 25274302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):238-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13766. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Cell differentiation and germ-soma separation in Ediacaran animal embryo-like
fossils.

Chen L(1), Xiao S(2), Pang K(1), Zhou C(3), Yuan X(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology and Stratigraphy, and Key Laboratory 
of Economic Stratigraphy and Palaeogeography, Nanjing Institute of Geology and
Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China [2] College of 
Earth Science, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Department of Geosciences, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia 24061, USA.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology and Stratigraphy, and Key Laboratory of 
Economic Stratigraphy and Palaeogeography, Nanjing Institute of Geology and
Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China.
(4)1] State Key Laboratory of Palaeobiology and Stratigraphy, and Key Laboratory 
of Economic Stratigraphy and Palaeogeography, Nanjing Institute of Geology and
Palaeontology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China [2] Department 
of Geology, Northwest University, Xi'an 710069, China.

Phosphorites of the Ediacaran Doushantuo Formation (∼600 million years old) yield
spheroidal microfossils with a palintomic cell cleavage pattern. These fossils
have been variously interpreted as sulphur-oxidizing bacteria, unicellular
protists, mesomycetozoean-like holozoans, green algae akin to Volvox, and
blastula embryos of early metazoans or bilaterian animals. However, their
complete life cycle is unknown and it is uncertain whether they had a cellularly 
differentiated ontogenetic stage, making it difficult to test their various
phylogenetic interpretations. Here we describe new spheroidal fossils from black 
phosphorites of the Doushantuo Formation that have been overlooked in previous
studies. These fossils represent later developmental stages of previously
published blastula-like fossils, and they show evidence for cell differentiation,
germ-soma separation, and programmed cell death. Their complex multicellularity
is inconsistent with a phylogenetic affinity with bacteria, unicellular protists,
or mesomycetozoean-like holozoans. Available evidence also indicates that the
Doushantuo fossils are unlikely crown-group animals or volvocine green algae. We 
conclude that an affinity with cellularly differentiated multicellular
eukaryotes, including stem-group animals or algae, is likely but more data are
needed to constrain further the exact phylogenetic affinity of the Doushantuo
fossils.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13766 
PMID: 25252979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):267-71. doi: 10.1038/nature13736. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Tyrosine phosphorylation of histone H2A by CK2 regulates transcriptional
elongation.

Basnet H(1), Su XB(2), Tan Y(3), Meisenhelder J(4), Merkurjev D(5), Ohgi KA(3),
Hunter T(4), Pillus L(2), Rosenfeld MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Medicine, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] Biomedical Sciences
Graduate Program, School of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(2)Division of Biological Sciences, Section of Molecular Biology, UCSD Moores
Cancer Center, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0347, USA.
(3)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Medicine, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(4)Molecular and Cell Biology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(5)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Medicine, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] Bioinformatics and
Systems Biology Program, Department of Bioengineering, University of California
San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Post-translational histone modifications have a critical role in regulating
transcription, the cell cycle, DNA replication and DNA damage repair. The
identification of new histone modifications critical for transcriptional
regulation at initiation, elongation or termination is of particular interest.
Here we report a new layer of regulation in transcriptional elongation that is
conserved from yeast to mammals. This regulation is based on the phosphorylation 
of a highly conserved tyrosine residue, Tyr 57, in histone H2A and is mediated by
the unsuspected tyrosine kinase activity of casein kinase 2 (CK2). Mutation of
Tyr 57 in H2A in yeast or inhibition of CK2 activity impairs transcriptional
elongation in yeast as well as in mammalian cells. Genome-wide binding analysis
reveals that CK2α, the catalytic subunit of CK2, binds across
RNA-polymerase-II-transcribed coding genes and active enhancers. Mutation of Tyr 
57 causes a loss of H2B mono-ubiquitination as well as H3K4me3 and H3K79me3,
histone marks associated with active transcription. Mechanistically, both CK2
inhibition and the H2A(Y57F) mutation enhance H2B deubiquitination activity of
the Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase (SAGA) complex, suggesting a critical role of 
this phosphorylation in coordinating the activity of the SAGA complex during
transcription. Together, these results identify a new component of regulation in 
transcriptional elongation based on CK2-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of the
globular domain of H2A.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13736 
PMCID: PMC4461219
PMID: 25252977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):272-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13714. Epub 2014 Sep 21.

Regulation of RNA polymerase II activation by histone acetylation in single
living cells.

Stasevich TJ(1), Hayashi-Takanaka Y(2), Sato Y(3), Maehara K(4), Ohkawa Y(5),
Sakata-Sogawa K(6), Tokunaga M(6), Nagase T(7), Nozaki N(8), McNally JG(9),
Kimura H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Osaka, 565-0871,
Japan [2] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523-1870, USA [3] Transcription Imaging
Consortium, Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.
(2)1] Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Osaka, 565-0871,
Japan [2] Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Core Research for
Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST), Kawaguchi, Saitama, 332-0012, Japan
[3] Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, 226-8501, Japan.
(3)1] Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Osaka, 565-0871,
Japan [2] Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, 226-8501, Japan.
(4)Department of Advanced Medical Initiatives, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu
University, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.
(5)1] Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Core Research for Evolutional
Science and Technology (CREST), Kawaguchi, Saitama, 332-0012, Japan [2]
Department of Advanced Medical Initiatives, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu
University, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.
(6)1] Department of Biological Information, Graduate School of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, 226-8501, Japan [2] RIKEN
Center for Integrative Medical Sciences (IMS), Yokohama, 230-0045, Japan.
(7)Department of Biotechnology Research, Kazusa DNA Research Institute, Chiba,
292-0818, Japan.
(8)Mab Institute Inc., Sapporo, 001-0021, Japan.
(9)1] Laboratory of Receptor Biology and Gene Expression, National Cancer
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2]
Institute for Soft Matter and Functional Materials, Helmholtz Zentrum Berlin,
Berlin, 14109, Germany.

In eukaryotic cells, post-translational histone modifications have an important
role in gene regulation. Starting with early work on histone acetylation, a
variety of residue-specific modifications have now been linked to RNA polymerase 
II (RNAP2) activity, but it remains unclear if these markers are active
regulators of transcription or just passive byproducts. This is because studies
have traditionally relied on fixed cell populations, meaning temporal resolution 
is limited to minutes at best, and correlated factors may not actually be present
in the same cell at the same time. Complementary approaches are therefore needed 
to probe the dynamic interplay of histone modifications and RNAP2 with higher
temporal resolution in single living cells. Here we address this problem by
developing a system to track residue-specific histone modifications and RNAP2
phosphorylation in living cells by fluorescence microscopy. This increases
temporal resolution to the tens-of-seconds range. Our single-cell analysis
reveals histone H3 lysine-27 acetylation at a gene locus can alter downstream
transcription kinetics by as much as 50%, affecting two temporally separate
events. First acetylation enhances the search kinetics of transcriptional
activators, and later the acetylation accelerates the transition of RNAP2 from
initiation to elongation. Signatures of the latter can be found genome-wide using
chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing. We argue that this
regulation leads to a robust and potentially tunable transcriptional response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13714 
PMID: 25252976  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):250-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13768. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

Structural and mechanistic insights into the bacterial amyloid secretion channel 
CsgG.

Goyal P(1), Krasteva PV(2), Van Gerven N(1), Gubellini F(2), Van den Broeck I(1),
Troupiotis-Tsaïlaki A(3), Jonckheere W(1), Péhau-Arnaudet G(4), Pinkner JS(5),
Chapman MR(6), Hultgren SJ(5), Howorka S(7), Fronzes R(2), Remaut H(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Structural and Molecular Microbiology, Structural Biology Research Center, 
VIB, Pleinlaan 2, 1050 Brussels, Belgium [2] Structural Biology Brussels, Vrije
Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(2)1] Unité G5 Biologie structurale de la sécrétion bactérienne, Institut
Pasteur, 25-28 rue du Docteur Roux, 75015 Paris, France [2] UMR 3528, CNRS,
Institut Pasteur, 25-28 rue du Docteur Roux, 75015 Paris, France.
(3)Structure et Fonction des Membranes Biologiques (SFMB), Université Libre de
Bruxelles, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(4)UMR 3528, CNRS, Institut Pasteur, 25-28 rue du Docteur Roux, 75015 Paris,
France.
(5)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Microbial Pathogenesis, Washington
University in Saint Louis School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110-1010, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1048, USA.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Institute for Structural and Molecular Biology,
University College London, London WC1H 0AJ, UK.

Curli are functional amyloid fibres that constitute the major protein component
of the extracellular matrix in pellicle biofilms formed by Bacteroidetes and
Proteobacteria (predominantly of the α and γ classes). They provide a fitness
advantage in pathogenic strains and induce a strong pro-inflammatory response
during bacteraemia. Curli formation requires a dedicated protein secretion
machinery comprising the outer membrane lipoprotein CsgG and two soluble
accessory proteins, CsgE and CsgF. Here we report the X-ray structure of
Escherichia coli CsgG in a non-lipidated, soluble form as well as in its native
membrane-extracted conformation. CsgG forms an oligomeric transport complex
composed of nine anticodon-binding-domain-like units that give rise to a
36-stranded β-barrel that traverses the bilayer and is connected to a cage-like
vestibule in the periplasm. The transmembrane and periplasmic domains are
separated by a 0.9-nm channel constriction composed of three stacked concentric
phenylalanine, asparagine and tyrosine rings that may guide the extended
polypeptide substrate through the secretion pore. The specificity factor CsgE
forms a nonameric adaptor that binds and closes off the periplasmic face of the
secretion channel, creating a 24,000 Å(3) pre-constriction chamber. Our
structural, functional and electrophysiological analyses imply that CsgG is an
ungated, non-selective protein secretion channel that is expected to employ a
diffusion-based, entropy-driven transport mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13768 
PMCID: PMC4268158
PMID: 25219853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):126-30. doi: 10.1038/nature14013.

Physical mechanism for gating and mechanosensitivity of the human TRAAK K+
channel.

Brohawn SG(1), Campbell EB(1), MacKinnon R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology and Biophysics and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, New York
10065, USA.

Activation of mechanosensitive ion channels by physical force underlies many
physiological processes including the sensation of touch, hearing and pain. TRAAK
(also known as KCNK4) ion channels are neuronally expressed members of the
two-pore domain K(+) (K2P) channel family and are mechanosensitive. They are
involved in controlling mechanical and temperature nociception in mice.
Mechanosensitivity of TRAAK is mediated directly through the lipid bilayer--it is
a membrane-tension-gated channel. However, the molecular mechanism of TRAAK
channel gating and mechanosensitivity is unknown. Here we present crystal
structures of TRAAK in conductive and non-conductive conformations defined by the
presence of permeant ions along the conduction pathway. In the non-conductive
state, a lipid acyl chain accesses the channel cavity through a 5 Å-wide lateral 
opening in the membrane inner leaflet and physically blocks ion passage. In the
conductive state, rotation of a transmembrane helix (TM4) about a central hinge
seals the intramembrane opening, preventing lipid block of the cavity and
permitting ion entry. Additional rotation of a membrane interacting TM2-TM3
segment, unique to mechanosensitive K2Ps, against TM4 may further stabilize the
conductive conformation. Comparison of the structures reveals a biophysical
explanation for TRAAK mechanosensitivity--an expansion in cross-sectional area up
to 2.7 nm(2) in the conductive state is expected to create a
membrane-tension-dependent energy difference between conformations that promotes 
force activation. Our results show how tension of the lipid bilayer can be
harnessed to control gating and mechanosensitivity of a eukaryotic ion channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14013 
PMCID: PMC4682367
PMID: 25471887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):121-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13980.

Piezo2 is the major transducer of mechanical forces for touch sensation in mice.

Ranade SS(1), Woo SH(1), Dubin AE(1), Moshourab RA(2), Wetzel C(3), Petrus M(4), 
Mathur J(4), Bégay V(3), Coste B(1), Mainquist J(4), Wilson AJ(4), Francisco
AG(1), Reddy K(1), Qiu Z(5), Wood JN(6), Lewin GR(3), Patapoutian A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, Dorris
Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, 
USA.
(2)1] Department of Neuroscience, Max-Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine,
Robert-Rössle Straße 10, D-13092 Berlin, Germany [2] Klinik für Anästhesiologie
mit Schwerpunkt Operative Intensivmedizin, Campus Charité Mitte and
Virchow-Klinikum Charité, Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Augustburgerplatz 1, 13353 
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Max-Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine,
Robert-Rössle Straße 10, D-13092 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego, California 
92121, USA.
(5)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience,
Dorris Neuroscience Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 
92037, USA [2] Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego,
California 92121, USA.
(6)Molecular Nociception Group, Wolfson Institute for Biomedical Research,
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

The sense of touch provides critical information about our physical environment
by transforming mechanical energy into electrical signals. It is postulated that 
mechanically activated cation channels initiate touch sensation, but the identity
of these molecules in mammals has been elusive. Piezo2 is a rapidly adapting,
mechanically activated ion channel expressed in a subset of sensory neurons of
the dorsal root ganglion and in cutaneous mechanoreceptors known as
Merkel-cell-neurite complexes. It has been demonstrated that Merkel cells have a 
role in vertebrate mechanosensation using Piezo2, particularly in shaping the
type of current sent by the innervating sensory neuron; however, major aspects of
touch sensation remain intact without Merkel cell activity. Here we show that
mice lacking Piezo2 in both adult sensory neurons and Merkel cells exhibit a
profound loss of touch sensation. We precisely localize Piezo2 to the peripheral 
endings of a broad range of low-threshold mechanoreceptors that innervate both
hairy and glabrous skin. Most rapidly adapting, mechanically activated currents
in dorsal root ganglion neuronal cultures are absent in Piezo2 conditional
knockout mice, and ex vivo skin nerve preparation studies show that the
mechanosensitivity of low-threshold mechanoreceptors strongly depends on Piezo2. 
This cellular phenotype correlates with an unprecedented behavioural phenotype:
an almost complete deficit in light-touch sensation in multiple behavioural
assays, without affecting other somatosensory functions. Our results highlight
that a single ion channel that displays rapidly adapting, mechanically activated 
currents in vitro is responsible for the mechanosensitivity of most low-threshold
mechanoreceptor subtypes involved in innocuous touch sensation. Notably, we find 
that touch and pain sensation are separable, suggesting that as-yet-unknown
mechanically activated ion channel(s) must account for noxious (painful)
mechanosensation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13980 
PMCID: PMC4380172
PMID: 25471886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature13847.

The ESCRT machinery regulates the secretion and long-range activity of Hedgehog.

Matusek T(1), Wendler F(1), Polès S(1), Pizette S(1), D'Angelo G(1), Fürthauer
M(1), Thérond PP(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Université de Nice Sophia Antipolis, iBV, UMR 7277, 06100 Nice, France [2] 
CNRS, iBV, UMR 7277, 06100 Nice, France [3] INSERM, iBV, U1091, 06100 Nice,
France.

The conserved family of Hedgehog (Hh) proteins acts as short- and long-range
secreted morphogens, controlling tissue patterning and differentiation during
embryonic development. Mature Hh carries hydrophobic palmitic acid and
cholesterol modifications essential for its extracellular spreading. Various
extracellular transportation mechanisms for Hh have been suggested, but the
pathways actually used for Hh secretion and transport in vivo remain unclear.
Here we show that Hh secretion in Drosophila wing imaginal discs is dependent on 
the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT). In vivo the
reduction of ESCRT activity in cells producing Hh leads to a retention of Hh at
the external cell surface. Furthermore, we show that ESCRT activity in
Hh-producing cells is required for long-range signalling. We also provide
evidence that pools of Hh and ESCRT proteins are secreted together into the
extracellular space in vivo and can subsequently be detected together at the
surface of receiving cells. These findings uncover a new function for ESCRT
proteins in controlling morphogen activity and reveal a new mechanism for the
transport of secreted Hh across the tissue by extracellular vesicles, which is
necessary for long-range target induction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13847 
PMID: 25471885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):82-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13958.

Eastern Pacific tropical cyclones intensified by El Niño delivery of subsurface
ocean heat.

Jin FF(1), Boucharel J(2), Lin II(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Atmospheric Sciences, SOEST, University of Hawaii at Manoa,
Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA [2] Laboratory for Climate Studies, Beijing Climate
Center, Chinese Meteorological Agency, Beijing 100081, China.
(2)Department of Atmospheric Sciences, SOEST, University of Hawaii at Manoa,
Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.
(3)Department of Atmospheric Sciences, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, 
Taiwan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Oct 29;526(7575):E5-6.
    Nature. 2015 Oct 29;526(7575):E4-5.

The El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) creates strong variations in sea surface 
temperature in the eastern equatorial Pacific, leading to major climatic and
societal impacts. In particular, ENSO influences the yearly variations of
tropical cyclone (TC) activities in both the Pacific and Atlantic basins through 
atmospheric dynamical factors such as vertical wind shear and stability. Until
recently, however, the direct ocean thermal control of ENSO on TCs has not been
taken into consideration because of an apparent mismatch in both timing and
location: ENSO peaks in winter and its surface warming occurs mostly along the
Equator, a region without TC activity. Here we show that El Niño--the warm phase 
of an ENSO cycle--effectively discharges heat into the eastern North Pacific
basin two to three seasons after its wintertime peak, leading to intensified TCs.
This basin is characterized by abundant TC activity and is the second most active
TC region in the world. As a result of the time involved in ocean transport, El
Niño's equatorial subsurface 'heat reservoir', built up in boreal winter, appears
in the eastern North Pacific several months later during peak TC season (boreal
summer and autumn). By means of this delayed ocean transport mechanism, ENSO
provides an additional heat supply favourable for the formation of strong
hurricanes. This thermal control on intense TC variability has significant
implications for seasonal predictions and long-term projections of TC activity
over the eastern North Pacific.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13958 
PMID: 25471884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):74-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14005.

Single-shot compressed ultrafast photography at one hundred billion frames per
second.

Gao L(1), Liang J(1), Li C(1), Wang LV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Optical Imaging Laboratory, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington
University in St Louis, Campus Box 1097, One Brookings Drive, St Louis, Missouri 
63130, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):46-7.

The capture of transient scenes at high imaging speed has been long sought by
photographers, with early examples being the well known recording in 1878 of a
horse in motion and the 1887 photograph of a supersonic bullet. However, not
until the late twentieth century were breakthroughs achieved in demonstrating
ultrahigh-speed imaging (more than 10(5) frames per second). In particular, the
introduction of electronic imaging sensors based on the charge-coupled device
(CCD) or complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) technology revolutionized
high-speed photography, enabling acquisition rates of up to 10(7) frames per
second. Despite these sensors' widespread impact, further increasing frame rates 
using CCD or CMOS technology is fundamentally limited by their on-chip storage
and electronic readout speed. Here we demonstrate a two-dimensional dynamic
imaging technique, compressed ultrafast photography (CUP), which can capture
non-repetitive time-evolving events at up to 10(11) frames per second. Compared
with existing ultrafast imaging techniques, CUP has the prominent advantage of
measuring an x-y-t (x, y, spatial coordinates; t, time) scene with a single
camera snapshot, thereby allowing observation of transient events with temporal
resolution as tens of picoseconds. Furthermore, akin to traditional photography, 
CUP is receive-only, and so does not need the specialized active illumination
required by other single-shot ultrafast imagers. As a result, CUP can image a
variety of luminescent--such as fluorescent or bioluminescent--objects. Using
CUP, we visualize four fundamental physical phenomena with single laser shots
only: laser pulse reflection and refraction, photon racing in two media, and
faster-than-light propagation of non-information (that is, motion that appears
faster than the speed of light but cannot convey information). Given CUP's
capability, we expect it to find widespread applications in both fundamental and 
applied sciences, including biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14005 
PMCID: PMC4270006
PMID: 25471883 


132. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):71-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13875.

Nonlinear lattice dynamics as a basis for enhanced superconductivity in
YBa2Cu3O6.5.

Mankowsky R(1), Subedi A(2), Först M(3), Mariager SO(4), Chollet M(5), Lemke
HT(5), Robinson JS(5), Glownia JM(5), Minitti MP(5), Frano A(6), Fechner M(7),
Spaldin NA(7), Loew T(6), Keimer B(6), Georges A(8), Cavalleri A(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Max Planck Institute for the Structure and Dynamics of Matter, 22761
Hamburg, Germany [2] University of Hamburg, 22761 Hamburg, Germany [3] Center for
Free-Electron Laser Science (CFEL), 22761 Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Centre de Physique Théorique, École Polytechnique, CNRS, 91128 Palaiseau
Cedex, France.
(3)1] Max Planck Institute for the Structure and Dynamics of Matter, 22761
Hamburg, Germany [2] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science (CFEL), 22761
Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Swiss Light Source, Paul Scherrer Institut, 5232 Villigen, Switzerland.
(5)Linac Coherent Light Source, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park 
94025, California, USA.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.
(7)Materials Theory, Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, 8093 Zürich,
Switzerland.
(8)1] Centre de Physique Théorique, École Polytechnique, CNRS, 91128 Palaiseau
Cedex, France [2] Collège de France, 11 place Marcelin Berthelot, 75005 Paris,
France [3] Département de Physique de la Matière Condensée (MaNEP), Université de
Genève, 1211 Genève, Switzerland.
(9)1] Max Planck Institute for the Structure and Dynamics of Matter, 22761
Hamburg, Germany [2] University of Hamburg, 22761 Hamburg, Germany [3] Center for
Free-Electron Laser Science (CFEL), 22761 Hamburg, Germany [4] Department of
Physics, University of Oxford, Clarendon Laboratory, Oxford OX1 3PU, UK.

Terahertz-frequency optical pulses can resonantly drive selected vibrational
modes in solids and deform their crystal structures. In complex oxides, this
method has been used to melt electronic order, drive insulator-to-metal
transitions and induce superconductivity. Strikingly, coherent interlayer
transport strongly reminiscent of superconductivity can be transiently induced up
to room temperature (300 kelvin) in YBa2Cu3O6+x (refs 9, 10). Here we report the 
crystal structure of this exotic non-equilibrium state, determined by femtosecond
X-ray diffraction and ab initio density functional theory calculations. We find
that nonlinear lattice excitation in normal-state YBa2Cu3O6+x at above the
transition temperature of 52 kelvin causes a simultaneous increase and decrease
in the Cu-O2 intra-bilayer and, respectively, inter-bilayer distances,
accompanied by anisotropic changes in the in-plane O-Cu-O bond buckling. Density 
functional theory calculations indicate that these motions cause drastic changes 
in the electronic structure. Among these, the enhancement in the character of the
in-plane electronic structure is likely to favour superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13875 
PMID: 25471882 


133. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):68-70. doi: 10.1038/nature14012.

Stellar feedback as the origin of an extended molecular outflow in a starburst
galaxy.

Geach JE(1), Hickox RC(2), Diamond-Stanic AM(3), Krips M(4), Rudnick GH(5),
Tremonti CA(3), Sell PH(6), Coil AL(7), Moustakas J(8).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Astrophysics Research, University of Hertfordshire, College Lane,
Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9AB, UK.
(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire
03755, USA.
(3)Department of Astronomy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
53706, USA.
(4)Institut de Radioastronomie Millimétrique, 300 rue de la Piscine, F-38406
Saint Martin d'Hères, France.
(5)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas
66045, USA [2] Max Planck Institute for Astronomy, Königstuhl 17, D-69117
Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Department of Physics, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas 79409-1051, USA.
(7)Center for Astrophysics and Space Sciences, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(8)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Siena College, 515 Loudon Road,
Loudonville, New York 12211, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):44-5.

Recent observations have revealed that starburst galaxies can drive molecular gas
outflows through stellar radiation pressure. Molecular gas is the phase of the
interstellar medium from which stars form, so these outflows curtail stellar mass
growth in galaxies. Previously known outflows, however, involve small fractions
of the total molecular gas content and have typical scales of less than a
kiloparsec. In at least some cases, input from active galactic nuclei is
dynamically important, so pure stellar feedback (the momentum return into the
interstellar medium) has been considered incapable of rapidly terminating star
formation on galactic scales. Molecular gas has been detected outside the
galactic plane of the archetypal starburst galaxy M82 (refs 4 and 5), but so far 
there has been no evidence that starbursts can propel substantial quantities of
cold molecular gas to the same galactocentric radius (about 10 kiloparsecs) as
the warmer gas that has been traced by metal ion absorbers in the circumgalactic 
medium. Here we report observations of molecular gas in a compact (effective
radius 100 parsecs) massive starburst galaxy at redshift 0.7, which is known to
drive a fast outflow of ionized gas. We find that 35 per cent of the total
molecular gas extends approximately 10 kiloparsecs, and one-third of this
extended gas has a velocity of up to 1,000 kilometres per second. The kinetic
energy associated with this high-velocity component is consistent with the
momentum flux available from stellar radiation pressure. This demonstrates that
nuclear bursts of star formation are capable of ejecting large amounts of cold
gas from the central regions of galaxies, thereby strongly affecting their
evolution by truncating star formation and redistributing matter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14012 
PMID: 25471881 


134. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):62-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14003.

Structure of the V. cholerae Na+-pumping NADH:quinone oxidoreductase.

Steuber J(1), Vohl G(2), Casutt MS(3), Vorburger T(1), Diederichs K(4), Fritz
G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Garbenstrasse 30, University of Hohenheim, 70599
Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)1] Institute for Neuropathology, University of Freiburg, Breisacher Strasse
64, 79106 Freiburg, Germany [2] Hermann-Staudinger-Graduate school, University of
Freiburg, Hebelstrasse 27, 79104 Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Institute for Neuropathology, University of Freiburg, Breisacher Strasse 64,
79106 Freiburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Konstanz, Universitätsstrasse 10, 78457
Konstanz, Germany.

NADH oxidation in the respiratory chain is coupled to ion translocation across
the membrane to build up an electrochemical gradient. The sodium-translocating
NADH:quinone oxidoreductase (Na(+)-NQR), a membrane protein complex widespread
among pathogenic bacteria, consists of six subunits, NqrA, B, C, D, E and F. To
our knowledge, no structural information on the Na(+)-NQR complex has been
available until now. Here we present the crystal structure of the Na(+)-NQR
complex at 3.5 Å resolution. The arrangement of cofactors both at the cytoplasmic
and the periplasmic side of the complex, together with a hitherto unknown iron
centre in the midst of the membrane-embedded part, reveals an electron transfer
pathway from the NADH-oxidizing cytoplasmic NqrF subunit across the membrane to
the periplasmic NqrC, and back to the quinone reduction site on NqrA located in
the cytoplasm. A sodium channel was localized in subunit NqrB, which represents
the largest membrane subunit of the Na(+)-NQR and is structurally related to urea
and ammonia transporters. On the basis of the structure we propose a mechanism of
redox-driven Na(+) translocation where the change in redox state of the flavin
mononucleotide cofactor in NqrB triggers the transport of Na(+) through the
observed channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14003 
PMID: 25471880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):56-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13920.

Deconstructing transcriptional heterogeneity in pluripotent stem cells.

Kumar RM(#)(1)(2), Cahan P(#)(3), Shalek AK(4), Satija R(5), DaleyKeyser A(1), Li
H(6), Zhang J(3), Pardee K(1)(2), Gennert D(5), Trombetta JJ(5), Ferrante TC(1), 
Regev A(5)(7), Daley GQ(3), Collins JJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, Harvard University,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Center 
of Synthetic Biology, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(3)Stem Cell Transplantation Program, Division of Pediatric Hematology and
Oncology, Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Boston Children's Hospital and Dana Farber Cancer Institute,
Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard Medical
School, Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology and Department of Physics,
Harvard University, 12 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(5)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(6)Center for Individualized Medicine, Department of Molecular Pharmacology &
Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota 
55905, USA.
(7)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02140, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Science. 2016 Jun 17;352(6292):1390-1.

Pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) are capable of dynamic interconversion between
distinct substates; however, the regulatory circuits specifying these states and 
enabling transitions between them are not well understood. Here we set out to
characterize transcriptional heterogeneity in mouse PSCs by single-cell
expression profiling under different chemical and genetic perturbations.
Signalling factors and developmental regulators show highly variable expression, 
with expression states for some variable genes heritable through multiple cell
divisions. Expression variability and population heterogeneity can be influenced 
by perturbation of signalling pathways and chromatin regulators. Notably, either 
removal of mature microRNAs or pharmacological blockage of signalling pathways
drives PSCs into a low-noise ground state characterized by a reconfigured
pluripotency network, enhanced self-renewal and a distinct chromatin state, an
effect mediated by opposing microRNA families acting on the Myc/Lin28/let-7 axis.
These data provide insight into the nature of transcriptional heterogeneity in
PSCs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13920 
PMCID: PMC4256722
PMID: 25471879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature13970. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Conductive two-dimensional titanium carbide 'clay' with high volumetric
capacitance.

Ghidiu M(1), Lukatskaya MR(1), Zhao MQ(1), Gogotsi Y(1), Barsoum MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, and A. J. Drexel
Nanomaterials Institute, Drexel University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104,
USA.

Safe and powerful energy storage devices are becoming increasingly important.
Charging times of seconds to minutes, with power densities exceeding those of
batteries, can in principle be provided by electrochemical capacitors--in
particular, pseudocapacitors. Recent research has focused mainly on improving the
gravimetric performance of the electrodes of such systems, but for portable
electronics and vehicles volume is at a premium. The best volumetric capacitances
of carbon-based electrodes are around 300 farads per cubic centimetre; hydrated
ruthenium oxide can reach capacitances of 1,000 to 1,500 farads per cubic
centimetre with great cyclability, but only in thin films. Recently, electrodes
made of two-dimensional titanium carbide (Ti3C2, a member of the 'MXene' family),
produced by etching aluminium from titanium aluminium carbide (Ti3AlC2, a 'MAX'
phase) in concentrated hydrofluoric acid, have been shown to have volumetric
capacitances of over 300 farads per cubic centimetre. Here we report a method of 
producing this material using a solution of lithium fluoride and hydrochloric
acid. The resulting hydrophilic material swells in volume when hydrated, and can 
be shaped like clay and dried into a highly conductive solid or rolled into films
tens of micrometres thick. Additive-free films of this titanium carbide 'clay'
have volumetric capacitances of up to 900 farads per cubic centimetre, with
excellent cyclability and rate performances. This capacitance is almost twice
that of our previous report, and our synthetic method also offers a much faster
route to film production as well as the avoidance of handling hazardous
concentrated hydrofluoric acid.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13970 
PMID: 25470044 


137. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13955. Epub 2014 Nov 24.

TRIM37 is a new histone H2A ubiquitin ligase and breast cancer oncoprotein.

Bhatnagar S(1), Gazin C(2), Chamberlain L(1), Ou J(3), Zhu X(1), Tushir JS(4),
Virbasius CM(1), Lin L(1), Zhu LJ(5), Wajapeyee N(6), Green MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA [2] Programs in Gene Function and
Expression and Molecular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.
(2)CEA/DSV/iRCM/LEFG, Genopole G2, and Université Paris Diderot, 91057 Evry,
France.
(3)Programs in Gene Function and Expression and Molecular Medicine, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.
(4)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ridgefield, Connecticut 06877,
USA.
(5)1] Programs in Gene Function and Expression and Molecular Medicine, University
of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA [2] Program 
in Bioinformatics and Integrative Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

The TRIM37 (also known as MUL) gene is located in the 17q23 chromosomal region,
which is amplified in up to ∼ 40% of breast cancers. TRIM37 contains a RING
finger domain, a hallmark of E3 ubiquitin ligases, but its protein substrate(s)
is unknown. Here we report that TRIM37 mono-ubiquitinates histone H2A, a
chromatin modification associated with transcriptional repression. We find that
in human breast cancer cell lines containing amplified 17q23, TRIM37 is
upregulated and, reciprocally, the major H2A ubiquitin ligase RNF2 (also known as
RING1B) is downregulated. Genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-chip
experiments in 17q23-amplified breast cancer cells identified many genes,
including multiple tumour suppressors, whose promoters were bound by TRIM37 and
enriched for ubiquitinated H2A. However, unlike RNF2, which is a subunit of
polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1), we find that TRIM37 associates with
polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2). TRIM37, PRC2 and PRC1 are co-bound to
specific target genes, resulting in their transcriptional silencing.
RNA-interference-mediated knockdown of TRIM37 results in loss of ubiquitinated
H2A, dissociation of PRC1 and PRC2 from target promoters, and transcriptional
reactivation of silenced genes. Knockdown of TRIM37 in human breast cancer cells 
containing amplified 17q23 substantially decreases tumour growth in mouse
xenografts. Conversely, ectopic expression of TRIM37 renders non-transformed
cells tumorigenic. Collectively, our results reveal TRIM37 as an oncogenic H2A
ubiquitin ligase that is overexpressed in a subset of breast cancers and promotes
transformation by facilitating silencing of tumour suppressors and other genes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13955 
PMCID: PMC4269325
PMID: 25470042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13977. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

Business culture and dishonesty in the banking industry.

Cohn A(1), Fehr E(1), Maréchal MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Economics, University of Zurich, 8006 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):48-9.

Trust in others' honesty is a key component of the long-term performance of
firms, industries, and even whole countries. However, in recent years, numerous
scandals involving fraud have undermined confidence in the financial industry.
Contemporary commentators have attributed these scandals to the financial
sector's business culture, but no scientific evidence supports this claim. Here
we show that employees of a large, international bank behave, on average,
honestly in a control condition. However, when their professional identity as
bank employees is rendered salient, a significant proportion of them become
dishonest. This effect is specific to bank employees because control experiments 
with employees from other industries and with students show that they do not
become more dishonest when their professional identity or bank-related items are 
rendered salient. Our results thus suggest that the prevailing business culture
in the banking industry weakens and undermines the honesty norm, implying that
measures to re-establish an honest culture are very important.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13977 
PMID: 25409154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):94-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13960. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

An enteric virus can replace the beneficial function of commensal bacteria.

Kernbauer E(1), Ding Y(2), Cadwell K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine at the Skirball Institute, New York 
University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] Department of
Microbiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016,
USA.
(2)1] New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York 10065, USA [2]
Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):42-3.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2015 Jan;15(1):4.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Jan;12(1):6.

Intestinal microbial communities have profound effects on host physiology.
Whereas the symbiotic contribution of commensal bacteria is well established, the
role of eukaryotic viruses that are present in the gastrointestinal tract under
homeostatic conditions is undefined. Here we demonstrate that a common enteric
RNA virus can replace the beneficial function of commensal bacteria in the
intestine. Murine norovirus (MNV) infection of germ-free or antibiotic-treated
mice restored intestinal morphology and lymphocyte function without inducing
overt inflammation and disease. The presence of MNV also suppressed an expansion 
of group 2 innate lymphoid cells observed in the absence of bacteria, and induced
transcriptional changes in the intestine associated with immune development and
type I interferon (IFN) signalling. Consistent with this observation, the IFN-α
receptor was essential for the ability of MNV to compensate for bacterial
depletion. Importantly, MNV infection offset the deleterious effect of treatment 
with antibiotics in models of intestinal injury and pathogenic bacterial
infection. These data indicate that eukaryotic viruses have the capacity to
support intestinal homeostasis and shape mucosal immunity, similarly to commensal
bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13960 
PMCID: PMC4257755
PMID: 25409145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13889. Epub 2014 Nov 17.

Inhibition of cell expansion by rapid ABP1-mediated auxin effect on microtubules.

Chen X(1), Grandont L(2), Li H(1), Hauschild R(3), Paque S(2), Abuzeineh A(4),
Rakusová H(1), Benkova E(1), Perrot-Rechenmann C(2), Friml J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Science and Technology Austria (IST Austria), Am Campus 1,
3400 Klosterneuburg, Austria [2] Department of Plant Systems Biology, Vlaams
Instituut voor Biotechnologie (VIB), Ghent University, B-9052 Gent, Belgium [3]
Department of Plant Biotechnology and Genetics, Ghent University, B-9052 Gent,
Belgium.
(2)Institut des Sciences du Végétal, UPR2355 CNRS, Saclay Plant Sciences LabEx, 1
Avenue de la Terrasse, 91198 Gif sur Yvette, Cedex, France.
(3)Institute of Science and Technology Austria (IST Austria), Am Campus 1, 3400
Klosterneuburg, Austria.
(4)1] Department of Plant Systems Biology, Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie
(VIB), Ghent University, B-9052 Gent, Belgium [2] Department of Plant
Biotechnology and Genetics, Ghent University, B-9052 Gent, Belgium.

Comment in
    Trends Plant Sci. 2015 Aug;20(8):471-2.
    Plant Physiol. 2016 Jan;170(1):23-5.

The prominent and evolutionarily ancient role of the plant hormone auxin is the
regulation of cell expansion. Cell expansion requires ordered arrangement of the 
cytoskeleton but molecular mechanisms underlying its regulation by signalling
molecules including auxin are unknown. Here we show in the model plant
Arabidopsis thaliana that in elongating cells exogenous application of auxin or
redistribution of endogenous auxin induces very rapid microtubule re-orientation 
from transverse to longitudinal, coherent with the inhibition of cell expansion. 
This fast auxin effect requires auxin binding protein 1 (ABP1) and involves a
contribution of downstream signalling components such as ROP6 GTPase,
ROP-interactive protein RIC1 and the microtubule-severing protein katanin. These 
components are required for rapid auxin- and ABP1-mediated re-orientation of
microtubules to regulate cell elongation in roots and dark-grown hypocotyls as
well as asymmetric growth during gravitropic responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13889 
PMCID: PMC4257754
PMID: 25409144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13961. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

Nutrient-sensing nuclear receptors coordinate autophagy.

Lee JM(1), Wagner M(1), Xiao R(1), Kim KH(1), Feng D(2), Lazar MA(2), Moore
DD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism and the Institute for
Diabetes, Obesity, and Metabolism, Perelman School of Medicine at the University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19014, USA.

Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved catabolic process that recycles
nutrients upon starvation and maintains cellular energy homeostasis. Its acute
regulation by nutrient-sensing signalling pathways is well described, but its
longer-term transcriptional regulation is not. The nuclear receptors peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPARα) and farnesoid X receptor (FXR) are
activated in the fasted and fed liver, respectively. Here we show that both PPARα
and FXR regulate hepatic autophagy in mice. Pharmacological activation of PPARα
reverses the normal suppression of autophagy in the fed state, inducing
autophagic lipid degradation, or lipophagy. This response is lost in PPARα
knockout (Ppara(-/-), also known as Nr1c1(-/-)) mice, which are partially
defective in the induction of autophagy by fasting. Pharmacological activation of
the bile acid receptor FXR strongly suppresses the induction of autophagy in the 
fasting state, and this response is absent in FXR knockout (Fxr(-/-), also known 
as Nr1h4(-/-)) mice, which show a partial defect in suppression of hepatic
autophagy in the fed state. PPARα and FXR compete for binding to shared sites in 
autophagic gene promoters, with opposite transcriptional outputs. These results
reveal complementary, interlocking mechanisms for regulation of autophagy by
nutrient status.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13961 
PMCID: PMC4267857
PMID: 25383539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13949. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

Transcriptional regulation of autophagy by an FXR-CREB axis.

Seok S(1), Fu T(1), Choi SE(2), Li Y(3), Zhu R(4), Kumar S(1), Sun X(4), Yoon
G(5), Kang Y(5), Zhong W(4), Ma J(3), Kemper B(1), Kemper JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(2)1] Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2] Institute for Medical
Science, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon 442-749, Korea.
(3)Department of Bioengineering and the Institute for Genomic Biology, University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(4)Department of Statistics, University of Georgia, Athens, Gerogia 30602, USA.
(5)Institute for Medical Science, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon
442-749, Korea.

Lysosomal degradation of cytoplasmic components by autophagy is essential for
cellular survival and homeostasis under nutrient-deprived conditions. Acute
regulation of autophagy by nutrient-sensing kinases is well defined, but
longer-term transcriptional regulation is relatively unknown. Here we show that
the fed-state sensing nuclear receptor farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and the fasting
transcriptional activator cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)
coordinately regulate the hepatic autophagy gene network. Pharmacological
activation of FXR repressed many autophagy genes and inhibited autophagy even in 
fasted mice, and feeding-mediated inhibition of macroautophagy was attenuated in 
FXR-knockout mice. From mouse liver chromatin immunoprecipitation and
high-throughput sequencing data, FXR and CREB binding peaks were detected at 178 
and 112 genes, respectively, out of 230 autophagy-related genes, and 78 genes
showed shared binding, mostly in their promoter regions. CREB promoted autophagic
degradation of lipids, or lipophagy, under nutrient-deprived conditions, and FXR 
inhibited this response. Mechanistically, CREB upregulated autophagy genes,
including Atg7, Ulk1 and Tfeb, by recruiting the coactivator CRTC2. After feeding
or pharmacological activation, FXR trans-repressed these genes by disrupting the 
functional CREB-CRTC2 complex. This study identifies the new FXR-CREB axis as a
key physiological switch regulating autophagy, resulting in sustained nutrient
regulation of autophagy during feeding/fasting cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13949 
PMCID: PMC4257899
PMID: 25383523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):51-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13976. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

β-catenin mediates stress resilience through Dicer1/microRNA regulation.

Dias C(1), Feng J(1), Sun H(1), Shao NY(1), Mazei-Robison MS(1), Damez-Werno
D(1), Scobie K(1), Bagot R(1), LaBonté B(1), Ribeiro E(1), Liu X(1), Kennedy
P(1), Vialou V(1), Ferguson D(1), Peña C(1), Calipari ES(1), Koo JW(1), Mouzon
E(1), Ghose S(2), Tamminga C(2), Neve R(3), Shen L(1), Nestler EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Texas Southwestern, Dallas, Texas
75390, USA.
(3)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):45-6.

β-catenin is a multi-functional protein that has an important role in the mature 
central nervous system; its dysfunction has been implicated in several
neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression. Here we show that in mice
β-catenin mediates pro-resilient and anxiolytic effects in the nucleus accumbens,
a key brain reward region, an effect mediated by D2-type medium spiny neurons.
Using genome-wide β-catenin enrichment mapping, we identify Dicer1-important in
small RNA (for example, microRNA) biogenesis--as a β-catenin target gene that
mediates resilience. Small RNA profiling after excising β-catenin from nucleus
accumbens in the context of chronic stress reveals β-catenin-dependent microRNA
regulation associated with resilience. Together, these findings establish
β-catenin as a critical regulator in the development of behavioural resilience,
activating a network that includes Dicer1 and downstream microRNAs. We thus
present a foundation for the development of novel therapeutic targets to promote 
stress resilience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13976 
PMCID: PMC4257892
PMID: 25383518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Nature. 2014 Dec 4;516(7529):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13770. Epub 2014 Oct 12.

Centriole amplification by mother and daughter centrioles differs in
multiciliated cells.

Al Jord A(1), Lemaître AI(1), Delgehyr N(1), Faucourt M(1), Spassky N(2), Meunier
A(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, IBENS, F-75005
Paris, France [2] Inserm, U1024, F-75005 Paris, France [3] CNRS, UMR 8197,
F-75005 Paris, France.
(2)1] Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, IBENS, F-75005
Paris, France [2] Inserm, U1024, F-75005 Paris, France [3] CNRS, UMR 8197,
F-75005 Paris, France [4].

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2017 Nov 20;43(4):385-386.

The semi-conservative centrosome duplication in cycling cells gives rise to a
centrosome composed of a mother and a newly formed daughter centriole. Both
centrioles are regarded as equivalent in their ability to form new centrioles and
their symmetric duplication is crucial for cell division homeostasis.
Multiciliated cells do not use the archetypal duplication program and instead
form more than a hundred centrioles that are required for the growth of motile
cilia and the efficient propelling of physiological fluids. The majority of these
new centrioles are thought to appear de novo, that is, independently from the
centrosome, around electron-dense structures called deuterosomes. Their origin
remains unknown. Using live imaging combined with correlative super-resolution
light and electron microscopy, we show that all new centrioles derive from the
pre-existing progenitor cell centrosome through multiple rounds of procentriole
seeding. Moreover, we establish that only the daughter centrosomal centriole
contributes to deuterosome formation, and thus to over ninety per cent of the
final centriole population. This unexpected centriolar asymmetry grants new
perspectives when studying cilia-related diseases and pathological centriole
amplification observed in cycling cells and associated with microcephaly and
cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13770 
PMID: 25307055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):577-81. doi: 10.1038/nature13988.

Checkpoint blockade cancer immunotherapy targets tumour-specific mutant antigens.

Gubin MM(1), Zhang X(2), Schuster H(3), Caron E(4), Ward JP(5), Noguchi T(1),
Ivanova Y(1), Hundal J(6), Arthur CD(1), Krebber WJ(7), Mulder GE(7), Toebes
M(8), Vesely MD(1), Lam SS(1), Korman AJ(9), Allison JP(10), Freeman GJ(11),
Sharpe AH(12), Pearce EL(1), Schumacher TN(8), Aebersold R(13), Rammensee HG(3), 
Melief CJ(14), Mardis ER(15), Gillanders WE(2), Artyomov MN(1), Schreiber RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South
Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(3)Department of Immunology, Institute of Cell Biology, and German Cancer
Consortium (DKTK), German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) Partner Site Tübingen,
Auf der Morgenstelle 15, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich,
8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)1] Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] Department
of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 
South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(6)The Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, 4444 Forest
Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(7)ISA Therapeutics B.V., 2333 CH Leiden, The Netherlands.
(8)Division of Immunology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1066 CX Amsterdam,
The Netherlands.
(9)Bristol-Myers Squibb, 700 Bay Road, Redwood City, California 94063, USA.
(10)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(11)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(12)Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(13)1] Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich,
8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2] Faculty of Science, University of Zurich, Zurich,
8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(14)1] ISA Therapeutics B.V., 2333 CH Leiden, The Netherlands [2] Department of
Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333ZA 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(15)1] The Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, 4444
Forest Park Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [2] Department of Genetics,
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis,
Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb;12(2):64.

The immune system influences the fate of developing cancers by not only
functioning as a tumour promoter that facilitates cellular transformation,
promotes tumour growth and sculpts tumour cell immunogenicity, but also as an
extrinsic tumour suppressor that either destroys developing tumours or restrains 
their expansion. Yet, clinically apparent cancers still arise in immunocompetent 
individuals in part as a consequence of cancer-induced immunosuppression. In many
individuals, immunosuppression is mediated by cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated
antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed death-1 (PD-1), two immunomodulatory receptors 
expressed on T cells. Monoclonal-antibody-based therapies targeting CTLA-4 and/or
PD-1 (checkpoint blockade) have yielded significant clinical benefits-including
durable responses--to patients with different malignancies. However, little is
known about the identity of the tumour antigens that function as the targets of T
cells activated by checkpoint blockade immunotherapy and whether these antigens
can be used to generate vaccines that are highly tumour-specific. Here we use
genomics and bioinformatics approaches to identify tumour-specific mutant
proteins as a major class of T-cell rejection antigens following anti-PD-1 and/or
anti-CTLA-4 therapy of mice bearing progressively growing sarcomas, and we show
that therapeutic synthetic long-peptide vaccines incorporating these mutant
epitopes induce tumour rejection comparably to checkpoint blockade immunotherapy.
Although mutant tumour-antigen-specific T cells are present in progressively
growing tumours, they are reactivated following treatment with anti-PD-1 and/or
anti-CTLA-4 and display some overlapping but mostly treatment-specific
transcriptional profiles, rendering them capable of mediating tumour rejection.
These results reveal that tumour-specific mutant antigens are not only important 
targets of checkpoint blockade therapy, but they can also be used to develop
personalized cancer-specific vaccines and to probe the mechanistic underpinnings 
of different checkpoint blockade treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13988 
PMCID: PMC4279952
PMID: 25428507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):572-6. doi: 10.1038/nature14001.

Predicting immunogenic tumour mutations by combining mass spectrometry and exome 
sequencing.

Yadav M(1), Jhunjhunwala S(1), Phung QT(1), Lupardus P(1), Tanguay J(1), Bumbaca 
S(1), Franci C(1), Cheung TK(1), Fritsche J(2), Weinschenk T(2), Modrusan Z(1),
Mellman I(1), Lill JR(1), Delamarre L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genentech, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(2)Immatics Biotechnologies GmbH, 72076 Tubingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb;12(2):64.

Human tumours typically harbour a remarkable number of somatic mutations. If
presented on major histocompatibility complex class I molecules (MHCI), peptides 
containing these mutations could potentially be immunogenic as they should be
recognized as 'non-self' neo-antigens by the adaptive immune system. Recent work 
has confirmed that mutant peptides can serve as T-cell epitopes. However, few
mutant epitopes have been described because their discovery required the
laborious screening of patient tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes for their ability 
to recognize antigen libraries constructed following tumour exome sequencing. We 
sought to simplify the discovery of immunogenic mutant peptides by characterizing
their general properties. We developed an approach that combines whole-exome and 
transcriptome sequencing analysis with mass spectrometry to identify neo-epitopes
in two widely used murine tumour models. Of the >1,300 amino acid changes
identified, ∼13% were predicted to bind MHCI, a small fraction of which were
confirmed by mass spectrometry. The peptides were then structurally modelled
bound to MHCI. Mutations that were solvent-exposed and therefore accessible to
T-cell antigen receptors were predicted to be immunogenic. Vaccination of mice
confirmed the approach, with each predicted immunogenic peptide yielding
therapeutically active T-cell responses. The predictions also enabled the
generation of peptide-MHCI dextramers that could be used to monitor the kinetics 
and distribution of the anti-tumour T-cell response before and after vaccination.
These findings indicate that a suitable prediction algorithm may provide an
approach for the pharmacodynamic monitoring of T-cell responses as well as for
the development of personalized vaccines in cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14001 
PMID: 25428506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):568-71. doi: 10.1038/nature13954.

PD-1 blockade induces responses by inhibiting adaptive immune resistance.

Tumeh PC(1), Harview CL(2), Yearley JH(3), Shintaku IP(2), Taylor EJ(2), Robert
L(2), Chmielowski B(1), Spasic M(2), Henry G(2), Ciobanu V(2), West AN(2),
Carmona M(2), Kivork C(2), Seja E(2), Cherry G(2), Gutierrez AJ(2), Grogan TR(2),
Mateus C(4), Tomasic G(4), Glaspy JA(1), Emerson RO(5), Robins H(6), Pierce
RH(3), Elashoff DA(1), Robert C(4), Ribas A(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, California 90095,
USA [2] Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(2)University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, California 90095,
USA.
(3)Merck &Co, Palo Alto, California 94304, USA.
(4)Gustave Roussy and INSERM U981, Villejuif, Paris Sud, France.
(5)Adaptive Biotechnologies, Seattle, Washington 98102, USA.
(6)1] Adaptive Biotechnologies, Seattle, Washington 98102, USA [2] Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.

Therapies that target the programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor have shown
unprecedented rates of durable clinical responses in patients with various cancer
types. One mechanism by which cancer tissues limit the host immune response is
via upregulation of PD-1 ligand (PD-L1) and its ligation to PD-1 on
antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells (termed adaptive immune resistance). Here we show
that pre-existing CD8(+) T cells distinctly located at the invasive tumour margin
are associated with expression of the PD-1/PD-L1 immune inhibitory axis and may
predict response to therapy. We analysed samples from 46 patients with metastatic
melanoma obtained before and during anti-PD-1 therapy (pembrolizumab) using
quantitative immunohistochemistry, quantitative multiplex immunofluorescence, and
next-generation sequencing for T-cell antigen receptors (TCRs). In serially
sampled tumours, patients responding to treatment showed proliferation of
intratumoral CD8(+) T cells that directly correlated with radiographic reduction 
in tumour size. Pre-treatment samples obtained from responding patients showed
higher numbers of CD8-, PD-1- and PD-L1-expressing cells at the invasive tumour
margin and inside tumours, with close proximity between PD-1 and PD-L1, and a
more clonal TCR repertoire. Using multivariate analysis, we established a
predictive model based on CD8 expression at the invasive margin and validated the
model in an independent cohort of 15 patients. Our findings indicate that tumour 
regression after therapeutic PD-1 blockade requires pre-existing CD8(+) T cells
that are negatively regulated by PD-1/PD-L1-mediated adaptive immune resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13954 
PMCID: PMC4246418
PMID: 25428505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):563-7. doi: 10.1038/nature14011.

Predictive correlates of response to the anti-PD-L1 antibody MPDL3280A in cancer 
patients.

Herbst RS(1), Soria JC(2), Kowanetz M(3), Fine GD(3), Hamid O(4), Gordon MS(5),
Sosman JA(6), McDermott DF(7), Powderly JD(8), Gettinger SN(1), Kohrt HE(9), Horn
L(10), Lawrence DP(11), Rost S(3), Leabman M(3), Xiao Y(3), Mokatrin A(3),
Koeppen H(3), Hegde PS(3), Mellman I(3), Chen DS(3), Hodi FS(12).

Author information: 
(1)Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, Yale School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street,
WWW221, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(2)Gustave Roussy South-Paris University, 114 Rue Edouard Vaillant, 94805
Villefuij, Cedex, France.
(3)Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(4)The Angeles Clinic and Research Institute, 11818 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles,
California 90025, USA.
(5)Pinnacle Oncology Hematology, 9055 E Del Camino Dr 100, Scottsdale, Arizona
85258, USA.
(6)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, 2220 Pierce Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee
37212, USA.
(7)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 Brookline Avenue, Shapiro 9, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(8)Carolina BioOncology Institute, 9801 W. Kincey Ave, Suite 145, Huntersville,
North Carolina 28078, USA.
(9)Stanford University, CCSR Bldg Room 1110, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(10)Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, 1301 Medical Center Dr, Suite 1710,
Nashville, Tennessee 37212, USA.
(11)Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, YAW 9E, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(12)Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center, 450 Brookline Avenue, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA.

The development of human cancer is a multistep process characterized by the
accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations that drive or reflect tumour
progression. These changes distinguish cancer cells from their normal
counterparts, allowing tumours to be recognized as foreign by the immune system. 
However, tumours are rarely rejected spontaneously, reflecting their ability to
maintain an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1;
also called B7-H1 or CD274), which is expressed on many cancer and immune cells, 
plays an important part in blocking the 'cancer immunity cycle' by binding
programmed death-1 (PD-1) and B7.1 (CD80), both of which are negative regulators 
of T-lymphocyte activation. Binding of PD-L1 to its receptors suppresses T-cell
migration, proliferation and secretion of cytotoxic mediators, and restricts
tumour cell killing. The PD-L1-PD-1 axis protects the host from overactive
T-effector cells not only in cancer but also during microbial infections.
Blocking PD-L1 should therefore enhance anticancer immunity, but little is known 
about predictive factors of efficacy. This study was designed to evaluate the
safety, activity and biomarkers of PD-L1 inhibition using the engineered
humanized antibody MPDL3280A. Here we show that across multiple cancer types,
responses (as evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours, version
1.1) were observed in patients with tumours expressing high levels of PD-L1,
especially when PD-L1 was expressed by tumour-infiltrating immune cells.
Furthermore, responses were associated with T-helper type 1 (TH1) gene
expression, CTLA4 expression and the absence of fractalkine (CX3CL1) in baseline 
tumour specimens. Together, these data suggest that MPDL3280A is most effective
in patients in which pre-existing immunity is suppressed by PD-L1, and is
re-invigorated on antibody treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature14011 
PMCID: PMC4836193
PMID: 25428504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):558-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13904.

MPDL3280A (anti-PD-L1) treatment leads to clinical activity in metastatic bladder
cancer.

Powles T(1), Eder JP(2), Fine GD(3), Braiteh FS(4), Loriot Y(5), Cruz C(6),
Bellmunt J(7), Burris HA(8), Petrylak DP(2), Teng SL(3), Shen X(3), Boyd Z(3),
Hegde PS(3), Chen DS(3), Vogelzang NJ(9).

Author information: 
(1)Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London, Barts Experimental
Cancer Medicine Centre, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.
(2)Yale Cancer Center, 333 Cedar Street, WWW211, New Haven, Connecticut 06520,
USA.
(3)Genentech, Inc. 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(4)Comprehensive Cancer Centers of Nevada, 3730 S. Eastern Avenue, Las Vegas,
Nevada 89169, USA.
(5)Gustave Roussy, 114 Rue Édouard Vaillant, 94805 Villejuif, France.
(6)Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO) and Vall d'Hebron University
Hospital. Passeig Vall d'Hebron, 119-129, 08035, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Bladder Cancer Center, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center, Harvard 
Medical School, 450 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(8)Sarah Cannon Research Institute, 3322 West End Avenue, Suite 900, Nashville,
Tennessee 37203, USA.
(9)University of Nevada School of Medicine and US Oncology/Comprehensive Cancer
Centers of Nevada, 3730 S. Eastern Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada 89169, USA.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2015 May;67(5):975.
    J Urol. 2015 Oct;194(4):956.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2015 Feb;12(2):61.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Feb;12(2):63.

There have been no major advances for the treatment of metastatic urothelial
bladder cancer (UBC) in the last 30 years. Chemotherapy is still the standard of 
care. Patient outcomes, especially for those in whom chemotherapy is not
effective or is poorly tolerated, remain poor. One hallmark of UBC is the
presence of high rates of somatic mutations. These alterations may enhance the
ability of the host immune system to recognize tumour cells as foreign owing to
an increased number of antigens. However, these cancers may also elude immune
surveillance and eradication through the expression of programmed death-ligand 1 
(PD-L1; also called CD274 or B7-H1) in the tumour microenvironment. Therefore, we
examined the anti-PD-L1 antibody MPDL3280A, a systemic cancer immunotherapy, for 
the treatment of metastatic UBC. MPDL3280A is a high-affinity engineered human
anti-PD-L1 monoclonal immunoglobulin-G1 antibody that inhibits the interaction of
PD-L1 with PD-1 (PDCD1) and B7.1 (CD80). Because PD-L1 is expressed on activated 
T cells, MPDL3280A was engineered with a modification in the Fc domain that
eliminates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity at clinically relevant doses 
to prevent the depletion of T cells expressing PD-L1. Here we show that MPDL3280A
has noteworthy activity in metastatic UBC. Responses were often rapid, with many 
occurring at the time of the first response assessment (6 weeks) and nearly all
were ongoing at the data cutoff. This phase I expansion study, with an adaptive
design that allowed for biomarker-positive enriched cohorts, demonstrated that
tumours expressing PD-L1-positive tumour-infiltrating immune cells had
particularly high response rates. Moreover, owing to the favourable toxicity
profile, including a lack of renal toxicity, patients with UBC, who are often
older and have a higher incidence of renal impairment, may be better able to
tolerate MPDL3280A versus chemotherapy. These results suggest that MPDL3280A may 
have an important role in treating UBC-the drug received breakthrough designation
status by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 2014.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13904 
PMID: 25428503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):550-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13963.

Evolution and forcing mechanisms of El Niño over the past 21,000 years.

Liu Z(1), Lu Z(2), Wen X(2), Otto-Bliesner BL(3), Timmermann A(4), Cobb KM(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and Nelson Center for
Climatic Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA
[2] Laboratory of Climate, Ocean and Atmosphere Studies, School of Physics,
Peking University, Beijing, 100871, China.
(2)Laboratory of Climate, Ocean and Atmosphere Studies, School of Physics, Peking
University, Beijing, 100871, China.
(3)Climate and Global Dynamics Division, National Center for Atmospheric
Research, Boulder, Colorado 80307-3000, USA.
(4)International Pacific Research Center and Department of Oceanography, School
of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology, University of Hawaii at Manoa,
Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.
(5)School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology,
Atlanta, Georgia 30332, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):494-5.

The El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is Earth's dominant source of interannual
climate variability, but its response to global warming remains highly uncertain.
To improve our understanding of ENSO's sensitivity to external climate forcing,
it is paramount to determine its past behaviour by using palaeoclimate data and
model simulations. Palaeoclimate records show that ENSO has varied considerably
since the Last Glacial Maximum (21,000 years ago), and some data sets suggest a
gradual intensification of ENSO over the past ∼6,000 years. Previous attempts to 
simulate the transient evolution of ENSO have relied on simplified models or
snapshot experiments. Here we analyse a series of transient Coupled General
Circulation Model simulations forced by changes in greenhouse gasses, orbital
forcing, the meltwater discharge and the ice-sheet history throughout the past
21,000 years. Consistent with most palaeo-ENSO reconstructions, our model
simulates an orbitally induced strengthening of ENSO during the Holocene epoch,
which is caused by increasing positive ocean-atmosphere feedbacks. During the
early deglaciation, ENSO characteristics change drastically in response to
meltwater discharges and the resulting changes in the Atlantic Meridional
Overturning Circulation and equatorial annual cycle. Increasing deglacial
atmospheric CO2 concentrations tend to weaken ENSO, whereas retreating glacial
ice sheets intensify ENSO. The complex evolution of forcings and ENSO feedbacks
and the uncertainties in the reconstruction further highlight the challenge and
opportunity for constraining future ENSO responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13963 
PMID: 25428502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):540-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13883.

Passive radiative cooling below ambient air temperature under direct sunlight.

Raman AP(1), Anoma MA(2), Zhu L(3), Rephaeli E(1), Fan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ginzton Laboratory, Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(3)Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA.

Cooling is a significant end-use of energy globally and a major driver of peak
electricity demand. Air conditioning, for example, accounts for nearly fifteen
per cent of the primary energy used by buildings in the United States. A passive 
cooling strategy that cools without any electricity input could therefore have a 
significant impact on global energy consumption. To achieve cooling one needs to 
be able to reach and maintain a temperature below that of the ambient air. At
night, passive cooling below ambient air temperature has been demonstrated using 
a technique known as radiative cooling, in which a device exposed to the sky is
used to radiate heat to outer space through a transparency window in the
atmosphere between 8 and 13 micrometres. Peak cooling demand, however, occurs
during the daytime. Daytime radiative cooling to a temperature below ambient of a
surface under direct sunlight has not been achieved because sky access during the
day results in heating of the radiative cooler by the Sun. Here, we
experimentally demonstrate radiative cooling to nearly 5 degrees Celsius below
the ambient air temperature under direct sunlight. Using a thermal photonic
approach, we introduce an integrated photonic solar reflector and thermal emitter
consisting of seven layers of HfO2 and SiO2 that reflects 97 per cent of incident
sunlight while emitting strongly and selectively in the atmospheric transparency 
window. When exposed to direct sunlight exceeding 850 watts per square metre on a
rooftop, the photonic radiative cooler cools to 4.9 degrees Celsius below ambient
air temperature, and has a cooling power of 40.1 watts per square metre at
ambient air temperature. These results demonstrate that a tailored, photonic
approach can fundamentally enable new technological possibilities for energy
efficiency. Further, the cold darkness of the Universe can be used as a renewable
thermodynamic resource, even during the hottest hours of the day.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13883 
PMID: 25428501 


152. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):531-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13956.

An impenetrable barrier to ultrarelativistic electrons in the Van Allen radiation
belts.

Baker DN(1), Jaynes AN(1), Hoxie VC(1), Thorne RM(2), Foster JC(3), Li X(1),
Fennell JF(4), Wygant JR(5), Kanekal SG(6), Erickson PJ(3), Kurth W(7), Li W(2), 
Ma Q(2), Schiller Q(1), Blum L(1), Malaspina DM(1), Gerrard A(8), Lanzerotti
LJ(8).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado 80303, USA.
(2)Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of California, Los 
Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(3)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Haystack Observatory, Westford,
Massachusetts 01886, USA.
(4)Aerospace Corporation Space Sciences Lab, Los Angeles, California 90009, USA.
(5)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA.
(6)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(7)Department of Physics, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.
(8)Center for Solar-Terrestrial Research, New Jersey Institute of Technology,
Newark, New Jersey 07102, USA.

Early observations indicated that the Earth's Van Allen radiation belts could be 
separated into an inner zone dominated by high-energy protons and an outer zone
dominated by high-energy electrons. Subsequent studies showed that electrons of
moderate energy (less than about one megaelectronvolt) often populate both zones,
with a deep 'slot' region largely devoid of particles between them. There is a
region of dense cold plasma around the Earth known as the plasmasphere, the outer
boundary of which is called the plasmapause. The two-belt radiation structure was
explained as arising from strong electron interactions with plasmaspheric hiss
just inside the plasmapause boundary, with the inner edge of the outer radiation 
zone corresponding to the minimum plasmapause location. Recent observations have 
revealed unexpected radiation belt morphology, especially at ultrarelativistic
kinetic energies (more than five megaelectronvolts). Here we analyse an extended 
data set that reveals an exceedingly sharp inner boundary for the
ultrarelativistic electrons. Additional, concurrently measured data reveal that
this barrier to inward electron radial transport does not arise because of a
physical boundary within the Earth's intrinsic magnetic field, and that inward
radial diffusion is unlikely to be inhibited by scattering by electromagnetic
transmitter wave fields. Rather, we suggest that exceptionally slow natural
inward radial diffusion combined with weak, but persistent, wave-particle pitch
angle scattering deep inside the Earth's plasmasphere can combine to create an
almost impenetrable barrier through which the most energetic Van Allen belt
electrons cannot migrate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13956 
PMID: 25428500 


153. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):528-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13914.

A dust-parallax distance of 19 megaparsecs to the supermassive black hole in
NGC 4151.

Hönig SF(1), Watson D(2), Kishimoto M(3), Hjorth J(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen,
Juliane Maries Vej 30, 2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark [2] School of Physics
&Astronomy, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK.
(2)Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane
Maries Vej 30, 2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
(3)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Kyoto Sangyo University,
Kamigamo-motoyama, Kita-ku, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):498-9.

The active galaxy NGC 4151 has a crucial role as one of only two active galactic 
nuclei for which black hole mass measurements based on emission line
reverberation mapping can be calibrated against other dynamical techniques.
Unfortunately, effective calibration requires accurate knowledge of the distance 
to NGC 4151, which is not at present available. Recently reported distances range
from 4 to 29 megaparsecs. Strong peculiar motions make a redshift-based distance 
very uncertain, and the geometry of the galaxy and its nucleus prohibit accurate 
measurements using other techniques. Here we report a dust-parallax distance to
NGC 4151 of 19.0(+2.4)(-2.6) megaparsecs. The measurement is based on an
adaptation of a geometric method that uses the emission line regions of active
galaxies. Because these regions are too small to be imaged with present
technology, we use instead the ratio of the physical and angular sizes of the
more extended hot-dust emission as determined from time delays and infrared
interferometry. This distance leads to an approximately 1.4-fold increase in the 
dynamical black hole mass, implying a corresponding correction to emission line
reverberation masses of black holes if they are calibrated against the two
objects with additional dynamical masses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13914 
PMID: 25428499 


154. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):505-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13855.

Belowground biodiversity and ecosystem functioning.

Bardgett RD(1), van der Putten WH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Michael Smith Building, The University of
Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, United Kingdom.
(2)1] Department of Terrestrial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology
(NIOO-KNAW), PO Box 50, 6700 AB Wageningen, The Netherlands [2] Laboratory of
Nematology, Wageningen University, PO Box 8123, 6700 ES Wageningen, The
Netherlands.

Evidence is mounting that the immense diversity of microorganisms and animals
that live belowground contributes significantly to shaping aboveground
biodiversity and the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. Our understanding of 
how this belowground biodiversity is distributed, and how it regulates the
structure and functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, is rapidly growing. Evidence
also points to soil biodiversity as having a key role in determining the
ecological and evolutionary responses of terrestrial ecosystems to current and
future environmental change. Here we review recent progress and propose avenues
for further research in this field.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13855 
PMID: 25428498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):545-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13951. Epub 2014 Nov 19.

Design and fabrication of memory devices based on nanoscale polyoxometalate
clusters.

Busche C(1), Vilà-Nadal L(1), Yan J(1), Miras HN(1), Long DL(1), Georgiev VP(2), 
Asenov A(2), Pedersen RH(2), Gadegaard N(2), Mirza MM(2), Paul DJ(2), Poblet
JM(3), Cronin L(1).

Author information: 
(1)WestCHEM, School of Chemistry, The University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ, UK.
(2)School of Engineering, The University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8LT, UK.
(3)Departament de Química Física i Inorgànica, Universitat Rovira i Virgili,
Marcel·lí Domingo street, 43007 Tarragona, Spain.

Flash memory devices--that is, non-volatile computer storage media that can be
electrically erased and reprogrammed--are vital for portable electronics, but the
scaling down of metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) flash memory to sizes of below
ten nanometres per data cell presents challenges. Molecules have been proposed to
replace MOS flash memory, but they suffer from low electrical conductivity, high 
resistance, low device yield, and finite thermal stability, limiting their
integration into current MOS technologies. Although great advances have been made
in the pursuit of molecule-based flash memory, there are a number of significant 
barriers to the realization of devices using conventional MOS technologies. Here 
we show that core-shell polyoxometalate (POM) molecules can act as candidate
storage nodes for MOS flash memory. Realistic, industry-standard device
simulations validate our approach at the nanometre scale, where the device
performance is determined mainly by the number of molecules in the storage media 
and not by their position. To exploit the nature of the core-shell POM clusters, 
we show, at both the molecular and device level, that embedding [(Se(IV)O3)2](4-)
as an oxidizable dopant in the cluster core allows the oxidation of the molecule 
to a [Se(v)2O6](2-) moiety containing a {Se(V)-Se(V)} bond (where curly brackets 
indicate a moiety, not a molecule) and reveals a new 5+ oxidation state for
selenium. This new oxidation state can be observed at the device level, resulting
in a new type of memory, which we call 'write-once-erase'. Taken together, these 
results show that POMs have the potential to be used as a realistic nanoscale
flash memory. Also, the configuration of the doped POM core may lead to new types
of electrical behaviour. This work suggests a route to the practical integration 
of configurable molecules in MOS technologies as the lithographic scales approach
the molecular limit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13951 
PMID: 25409147 


156. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):518-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13959. Epub 2014 Nov 12.

Global diets link environmental sustainability and human health.

Tilman D(1), Clark M(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St 
Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA [2] Bren School of Environmental Science and
Management, University of California Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.
(2)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St
Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):501-2.

Diets link environmental and human health. Rising incomes and urbanization are
driving a global dietary transition in which traditional diets are replaced by
diets higher in refined sugars, refined fats, oils and meats. By 2050 these
dietary trends, if unchecked, would be a major contributor to an estimated 80 per
cent increase in global agricultural greenhouse gas emissions from food
production and to global land clearing. Moreover, these dietary shifts are
greatly increasing the incidence of type II diabetes, coronary heart disease and 
other chronic non-communicable diseases that lower global life expectancies.
Alternative diets that offer substantial health benefits could, if widely
adopted, reduce global agricultural greenhouse gas emissions, reduce land
clearing and resultant species extinctions, and help prevent such diet-related
chronic non-communicable diseases. The implementation of dietary solutions to the
tightly linked diet-environment-health trilemma is a global challenge, and
opportunity, of great environmental and public health importance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13959 
PMID: 25383533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):512-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13922. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

First cranial remains of a gondwanatherian mammal reveal remarkable mosaicism.

Krause DW(1), Hoffmann S(1), Wible JR(2), Kirk EC(3), Schultz JA(4), von
Koenigswald W(4), Groenke JR(1), Rossie JB(5), O'Connor PM(6), Seiffert ER(1),
Dumont ER(7), Holloway WL(6), Rogers RR(8), Rahantarisoa LJ(9), Kemp AD(3),
Andriamialison H(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New
York 11794, USA.
(2)Section of Mammals, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, 5800 Baum Boulevard,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15206, USA.
(3)Department of Anthropology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712, USA.
(4)Steinmann-Institut für Geologie, Mineralogie und Paläontologie der Universität
Bonn, D-53115 Bonn, Germany.
(5)Department of Anthropology, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York
11794, USA.
(6)1] Department of Biomedical Sciences, Heritage College of Osteopathic
Medicine, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio 45701, USA [2] Ohio Center for Ecology
and Evolutionary Studies, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio 45701 USA.
(7)Department of Biology, 221 Morrill Science Center, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003, USA.
(8)Geology Department, Macalester College, 1600 Grand Avenue, St Paul, Minnesota 
55105, USA.
(9)Département de Géologie, Université d'Antananarivo, Antananarivo (101),
Madagascar.
(10)Département de Paléontologie, Université d'Antananarivo, Antananarivo (101), 
Madagascar.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):495-6.

Previously known only from isolated teeth and lower jaw fragments recovered from 
the Cretaceous and Palaeogene of the Southern Hemisphere, the Gondwanatheria
constitute the most poorly known of all major mammaliaform radiations. Here we
report the discovery of the first skull material of a gondwanatherian, a complete
and well-preserved cranium from Upper Cretaceous strata in Madagascar that we
assign to a new genus and species. Phylogenetic analysis strongly supports its
placement within Gondwanatheria, which are recognized as monophyletic and closely
related to multituberculates, an evolutionarily successful clade of Mesozoic
mammals known almost exclusively from the Northern Hemisphere. The new taxon is
the largest known mammaliaform from the Mesozoic of Gondwana. Its craniofacial
anatomy reveals that it was herbivorous, large-eyed and agile, with
well-developed high-frequency hearing and a keen sense of smell. The cranium
exhibits a mosaic of primitive and derived features, the disparity of which is
extreme and probably reflective of a long evolutionary history in geographic
isolation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13922 
PMID: 25383528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):535-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13865. Epub 2014 Nov 10.

Metallization of vanadium dioxide driven by large phonon entropy.

Budai JD(1), Hong J(1), Manley ME(1), Specht ED(1), Li CW(1), Tischler JZ(2),
Abernathy DL(3), Said AH(2), Leu BM(2), Boatner LA(1), McQueeney RJ(4), Delaire
O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Materials Science and Technology Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak 
Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA.
(2)Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, 
USA.
(3)Quantum Condensed Matter Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831, USA.
(4)Neutron Sciences Directorate, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831, USA.

Phase competition underlies many remarkable and technologically important
phenomena in transition metal oxides. Vanadium dioxide (VO2) exhibits a
first-order metal-insulator transition (MIT) near room temperature, where
conductivity is suppressed and the lattice changes from tetragonal to monoclinic 
on cooling. Ongoing attempts to explain this coupled structural and electronic
transition begin with two alternative starting points: a Peierls MIT driven by
instabilities in electron-lattice dynamics and a Mott MIT where strong
electron-electron correlations drive charge localization. A key missing piece of 
the VO2 puzzle is the role of lattice vibrations. Moreover, a comprehensive
thermodynamic treatment must integrate both entropic and energetic aspects of the
transition. Here we report that the entropy driving the MIT in VO2 is dominated
by strongly anharmonic phonons rather than electronic contributions, and provide 
a direct determination of phonon dispersions. Our ab initio calculations identify
softer bonding in the tetragonal phase, relative to the monoclinic phase, as the 
origin of the large vibrational entropy stabilizing the metallic rutile phase.
They further reveal how a balance between higher entropy in the metal and
orbital-driven lower energy in the insulator fully describes the thermodynamic
forces controlling the MIT. Our study illustrates the critical role of anharmonic
lattice dynamics in metal oxide phase competition, and provides guidance for the 
predictive design of new materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13865 
PMID: 25383524 


159. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):523-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13953. Epub 2014 Nov 2.

A positional Toll receptor code directs convergent extension in Drosophila.

Paré AC(1), Vichas A(1), Fincher CT(1), Mirman Z(1), Farrell DL(1), Mainieri
A(1), Zallen JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Developmental Biology Program, Sloan
Kettering Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Nov 19;527(7578):398.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):499-501.

Elongation of the head-to-tail body axis by convergent extension is a conserved
developmental process throughout metazoans. In Drosophila, patterns of
transcription factor expression provide spatial cues that induce systematically
oriented cell movements and promote tissue elongation. However, the mechanisms by
which patterned transcriptional inputs control cell polarity and behaviour have
long been elusive. We demonstrate that three Toll family receptors, Toll-2,
Toll-6 and Toll-8, are expressed in overlapping transverse stripes along the
anterior-posterior axis and act in combination to direct planar polarity and
polarized cell rearrangements during convergent extension. Simultaneous
disruption of all three receptors strongly reduces actomyosin-driven junctional
remodelling and axis elongation, and an ectopic stripe of Toll receptor
expression is sufficient to induce planar polarized actomyosin contractility.
These results demonstrate that tissue-level patterns of Toll receptor expression 
provide spatial signals that link positional information from the
anterior-posterior patterning system to the essential cell behaviours that drive 
convergent extension.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13953 
PMCID: PMC4943584
PMID: 25363762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):554-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13761. Epub 2014 Sep 21.

Multiplex single-molecule interaction profiling of DNA-barcoded proteins.

Gu L(1), Li C(2), Aach J(1), Hill DE(3), Vidal M(3), Church GM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(2)Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, Harvard University,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Center for Cancer Systems Biology (CCSB) and Department of Cancer 
Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(4)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, Harvard
University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

In contrast with advances in massively parallel DNA sequencing, high-throughput
protein analyses are often limited by ensemble measurements, individual analyte
purification and hence compromised quality and cost-effectiveness.
Single-molecule protein detection using optical methods is limited by the number 
of spectrally non-overlapping chromophores. Here we introduce a
single-molecular-interaction sequencing (SMI-seq) technology for parallel protein
interaction profiling leveraging single-molecule advantages. DNA barcodes are
attached to proteins collectively via ribosome display or individually via
enzymatic conjugation. Barcoded proteins are assayed en masse in aqueous solution
and subsequently immobilized in a polyacrylamide thin film to construct a random 
single-molecule array, where barcoding DNAs are amplified into in situ polymerase
colonies (polonies) and analysed by DNA sequencing. This method allows precise
quantification of various proteins with a theoretical maximum array density of
over one million polonies per square millimetre. Furthermore, protein
interactions can be measured on the basis of the statistics of colocalized
polonies arising from barcoding DNAs of interacting proteins. Two demanding
applications, G-protein coupled receptor and antibody-binding profiling, are
demonstrated. SMI-seq enables 'library versus library' screening in a one-pot
assay, simultaneously interrogating molecular binding affinity and specificity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13761 
PMCID: PMC4246050
PMID: 25252978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):587-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13722. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

Epigenetic reprogramming that prevents transgenerational inheritance of the
vernalized state.

Crevillén P(1), Yang H(2), Cui X(3), Greeff C(1), Trick M(2), Qiu Q(3), Cao X(3),
Dean C(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Cell &Developmental Biology, John Innes Centre, Norwich
Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK [2].
(2)Department of Cell &Developmental Biology, John Innes Centre, Norwich Research
Park, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Plant Genomics and National Center for Plant Gene
Research, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences. Beijing 100101, China.

The reprogramming of epigenetic states in gametes and embryos is essential for
correct development in plants and mammals. In plants, the germ line arises from
somatic tissues of the flower, necessitating the erasure of chromatin
modifications that have accumulated at specific loci during development or in
response to external stimuli. If this process occurs inefficiently, it can lead
to epigenetic states being inherited from one generation to the next. However, in
most cases, accumulated epigenetic modifications are efficiently erased before
the next generation. An important example of epigenetic reprogramming in plants
is the resetting of the expression of the floral repressor locus FLC in
Arabidopsis thaliana. FLC is epigenetically silenced by prolonged cold in a
process called vernalization. However, the locus is reactivated before the
completion of seed development, ensuring the requirement for vernalization in
every generation. In contrast to our detailed understanding of the
polycomb-mediated epigenetic silencing induced by vernalization, little is known 
about the mechanism involved in the reactivation of FLC. Here we show that a
hypomorphic mutation in the jumonji-domain-containing protein ELF6 impaired the
reactivation of FLC in reproductive tissues, leading to the inheritance of a
partially vernalized state. ELF6 has H3K27me3 demethylase activity, and the
mutation reduced this enzymatic activity in planta. Consistent with this, in the 
next generation of mutant plants, H3K27me3 levels at the FLC locus stayed higher,
and FLC expression remained lower, than in the wild type. Our data reveal an
ancient role for H3K27 demethylation in the reprogramming of epigenetic states in
plant and mammalian embryos.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13722 
PMCID: PMC4247276
PMID: 25219852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):582-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13707. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

Histone H2A.Z subunit exchange controls consolidation of recent and remote
memory.

Zovkic IB(1), Paulukaitis BS(1), Day JJ(1), Etikala DM(1), Sweatt JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute, University 
of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2015 Feb;25(2):151-2.

Memory formation is a multi-stage process that initially requires cellular
consolidation in the hippocampus, after which memories are downloaded to the
cortex for maintenance, in a process termed systems consolidation. Epigenetic
mechanisms regulate both types of consolidation, but histone variant exchange, in
which canonical histones are replaced with their variant counterparts, is an
entire branch of epigenetics that has received limited attention in the brain and
has never, to our knowledge, been studied in relation to cognitive function. Here
we show that histone H2A.Z, a variant of histone H2A, is actively exchanged in
response to fear conditioning in the hippocampus and the cortex, where it
mediates gene expression and restrains the formation of recent and remote memory.
Our data provide evidence for H2A.Z involvement in cognitive function and
specifically implicate H2A.Z as a negative regulator of hippocampal consolidation
and systems consolidation, probably through downstream effects on gene
expression. Moreover, alterations in H2A.Z binding at later stages of systems
consolidation suggest that this histone has the capacity to mediate stable
molecular modifications required for memory retention. Overall, our data
introduce histone variant exchange as a novel mechanism contributing to the
molecular basis of cognitive function and implicate H2A.Z as a potential
therapeutic target for memory disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13707 
PMCID: PMC4768489
PMID: 25219850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Nature. 2014 Nov 27;515(7528):591-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13709. Epub 2014 Sep 7.

A structure-based mechanism for tRNA and retroviral RNA remodelling during primer
annealing.

Miller SB(1), Yildiz FZ(2), Lo JA(3), Wang B(3), D'Souza VM(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Biology, Georgetown
University, Washington DC 20057, USA. [3].
(2)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2].
(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.

To prime reverse transcription, retroviruses require annealing of a transfer RNA 
molecule to the U5 primer binding site (U5-PBS) region of the viral genome. The
residues essential for primer annealing are initially locked in intramolecular
interactions; hence, annealing requires the chaperone activity of the retroviral 
nucleocapsid (NC) protein to facilitate structural rearrangements. Here we show
that, unlike classical chaperones, the Moloney murine leukaemia virus NC uses a
unique mechanism for remodelling: it specifically targets multiple structured
regions in both the U5-PBS and tRNA(Pro) primer that otherwise sequester residues
necessary for annealing. This high-specificity and high-affinity binding by NC
consequently liberates these sequestered residues--which are exactly
complementary--for intermolecular interactions. Furthermore, NC utilizes a
step-wise, entropy-driven mechanism to trigger both residue-specific
destabilization and residue-specific release. Our structures of NC bound to
U5-PBS and tRNA(Pro) reveal the structure-based mechanism for retroviral primer
annealing and provide insights as to how ATP-independent chaperones can target
specific RNAs amidst the cellular milieu of non-target RNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13709 
PMID: 25209668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):402-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13986.

Topologically associating domains are stable units of replication-timing
regulation.

Pope BD(1), Ryba T(2), Dileep V(1), Yue F(3), Wu W(4), Denas O(5), Vera DL(1),
Wang Y(6), Hansen RS(7), Canfield TK(8), Thurman RE(8), Cheng Y(9), Gülsoy G(10),
Dennis JH(1), Snyder MP(9), Stamatoyannopoulos JA(8), Taylor J(5), Hardison
RC(4), Kahveci T(10), Ren B(11), Gilbert DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, 319 Stadium Drive, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32306, USA.
(2)Division of Natural Sciences, 5800 Bay Shore Road, New College of Florida,
Sarasota, Florida 34243, USA.
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Medicine, The
Pennsylvania State University, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA [2]
Bioinformatics and Genomics Program, Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, The
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(4)Center for Comparative Genomics and Bioinformatics, Huck Institutes of the
Life Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
16802, USA.
(5)Departments of Biology and Mathematics and Computer Science, Emory University,
O. Wayne Rollins Research Center, 1510 Clifton Road NE, Atlanta, Georgia 30322,
USA.
(6)Bioinformatics and Genomics Program, Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, The
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Division of Medical Genetics, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(8)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(9)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Drive, MC-5477
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(10)Computer and Information Sciences and Engineering, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
(11)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and University of California, San Diego 
School of Medicine, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Eukaryotic chromosomes replicate in a temporal order known as the
replication-timing program. In mammals, replication timing is cell-type-specific 
with at least half the genome switching replication timing during development,
primarily in units of 400-800 kilobases ('replication domains'), whose positions 
are preserved in different cell types, conserved between species, and appear to
confine long-range effects of chromosome rearrangements. Early and late
replication correlate, respectively, with open and closed three-dimensional
chromatin compartments identified by high-resolution chromosome conformation
capture (Hi-C), and, to a lesser extent, late replication correlates with
lamina-associated domains (LADs). Recent Hi-C mapping has unveiled substructure
within chromatin compartments called topologically associating domains (TADs)
that are largely conserved in their positions between cell types and are similar 
in size to replication domains. However, TADs can be further sub-stratified into 
smaller domains, challenging the significance of structures at any particular
scale. Moreover, attempts to reconcile TADs and LADs to replication-timing data
have not revealed a common, underlying domain structure. Here we localize
boundaries of replication domains to the early-replicating border of
replication-timing transitions and map their positions in 18 human and 13 mouse
cell types. We demonstrate that, collectively, replication domain boundaries
share a near one-to-one correlation with TAD boundaries, whereas within a cell
type, adjacent TADs that replicate at similar times obscure replication domain
boundaries, largely accounting for the previously reported lack of alignment.
Moreover, cell-type-specific replication timing of TADs partitions the genome
into two large-scale sub-nuclear compartments revealing that replication-timing
transitions are indistinguishable from late-replicating regions in chromatin
composition and lamina association and accounting for the reduced correlation of 
replication timing to LADs and heterochromatin. Our results reconcile
cell-type-specific sub-nuclear compartmentalization and replication timing with
developmentally stable structural domains and offer a unified model for
large-scale chromosome structure and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13986 
PMCID: PMC4251741
PMID: 25409831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):398-401. doi: 10.1038/nature13957.

Direct human influence on atmospheric CO2 seasonality from increased cropland
productivity.

Gray JM(1), Frolking S(2), Kort EA(3), Ray DK(4), Kucharik CJ(5), Ramankutty
N(6), Friedl MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Environment, Boston University, Boston, Massachussetts
02215, USA.
(2)Earth Systems Research Center, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New
Hampshire 03824, USA.
(3)Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(4)Institute on the Environment, University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, Minnesota
55108, USA.
(5)Department of Agronomy and Nelson Institute Center for Sustainability and the 
Global Environment, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706,
USA.
(6)Department of Geography, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3A 0B9, Canada.

Ground- and aircraft-based measurements show that the seasonal amplitude of
Northern Hemisphere atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) concentrations has increased
by as much as 50 per cent over the past 50 years. This increase has been linked
to changes in temperate, boreal and arctic ecosystem properties and processes
such as enhanced photosynthesis, increased heterotrophic respiration, and
expansion of woody vegetation. However, the precise causal mechanisms behind the 
observed changes in atmospheric CO2 seasonality remain unclear. Here we use
production statistics and a carbon accounting model to show that increases in
agricultural productivity, which have been largely overlooked in previous
investigations, explain as much as a quarter of the observed changes in
atmospheric CO2 seasonality. Specifically, Northern Hemisphere extratropical
maize, wheat, rice, and soybean production grew by 240 per cent between 1961 and 
2008, thereby increasing the amount of net carbon uptake by croplands during the 
Northern Hemisphere growing season by 0.33 petagrams. Maize alone accounts for
two-thirds of this change, owing mostly to agricultural intensification within
concentrated production zones in the midwestern United States and northern China.
Maize, wheat, rice, and soybeans account for about 68 per cent of extratropical
dry biomass production, so it is likely that the total impact of increased
agricultural production exceeds the amount quantified here.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13957 
PMID: 25409830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):394-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13893.

Agricultural Green Revolution as a driver of increasing atmospheric CO2 seasonal 
amplitude.

Zeng N(1), Zhao F(1), Collatz GJ(2), Kalnay E(1), Salawitch RJ(1), West TO(3),
Guanter L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, and Earth System Science
Interdisciplinary Center, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA.
(2)Hydrospheric and Biospheric Sciences, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(3)Joint Global Change Research Institute, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory,
College Park, Maryland 20740, USA.
(4)Institute for Space Sciences, Freie Universität Berlin, 12165 Berlin, Germany.

The atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) record displays a prominent seasonal cycle
that arises mainly from changes in vegetation growth and the corresponding CO2
uptake during the boreal spring and summer growing seasons and CO2 release during
the autumn and winter seasons. The CO2 seasonal amplitude has increased over the 
past five decades, suggesting an increase in Northern Hemisphere biospheric
activity. It has been proposed that vegetation growth may have been stimulated by
higher concentrations of CO2 as well as by warming in recent decades, but such
mechanisms have been unable to explain the full range and magnitude of the
observed increase in CO2 seasonal amplitude. Here we suggest that the
intensification of agriculture (the Green Revolution, in which much greater crop 
yield per unit area was achieved by hybridization, irrigation and fertilization) 
during the past five decades is a driver of changes in the seasonal
characteristics of the global carbon cycle. Our analysis of CO2 data and
atmospheric inversions shows a robust 15 per cent long-term increase in CO2
seasonal amplitude from 1961 to 2010, punctuated by large decadal and interannual
variations. Using a terrestrial carbon cycle model that takes into account
high-yield cultivars, fertilizer use and irrigation, we find that the long-term
increase in CO2 seasonal amplitude arises from two major regions: the
mid-latitude cropland between 25° N and 60° N and the high-latitude natural
vegetation between 50° N and 70° N. The long-term trend of seasonal amplitude
increase is 0.311 ± 0.027 per cent per year, of which sensitivity experiments
attribute 45, 29 and 26 per cent to land-use change, climate variability and
change, and increased productivity due to CO2 fertilization, respectively.
Vegetation growth was earlier by one to two weeks, as measured by the mid-point
of vegetation carbon uptake, and took up 0.5 petagrams more carbon in July, the
height of the growing season, during 2001-2010 than in 1961-1970, suggesting that
human land use and management contribute to seasonal changes in the CO2 exchange 
between the biosphere and the atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13893 
PMID: 25409829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):379-83. doi: 10.1038/nature13918.

Artificial chemical and magnetic structure at the domain walls of an epitaxial
oxide.

Farokhipoor S(1), Magén C(2), Venkatesan S(3), Íñiguez J(4), Daumont CJ(1), Rubi 
D(1), Snoeck E(5), Mostovoy M(1), de Graaf C(6), Müller A(3), Döblinger M(3),
Scheu C(3), Noheda B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zernike Institute for Advanced Materials, University of Groningen, 9747 AG
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)1] Laboratorio de Microscopías Avanzadas (LMA), Instituto de Nanociencia de
Aragón (INA) - ARAID, and Departamento de Física de la Materia Condensada,
Universidad de Zaragoza, 50018 Zaragoza, Spain [2] Transpyrenean Advanced
Laboratory for Electron Microscopy (TALEM), CEMES - INA, CNRS - Universidad de
Zaragoza, 30155 Toulouse, France.
(3)Department of Chemistry and CeNS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München,
Butenandtstrasse 5-11 (E), 81377 Munich, Germany.
(4)Institut de Ciència de Materials de Barcelona (ICMAB-CSIC), Campus UAB, 08193 
Bellaterra, Spain.
(5)1] Transpyrenean Advanced Laboratory for Electron Microscopy (TALEM), CEMES - 
INA, CNRS - Universidad de Zaragoza, 30155 Toulouse, France [2] CEMES - CNRS,
30155 Toulouse, France.
(6)1] Zernike Institute for Advanced Materials, University of Groningen, 9747 AG 
Groningen, The Netherlands [2] Universitat Rovira i Virgili, 43007 Tarragona,
Spain [3] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), 08010
Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):348-50.

Progress in nanotechnology requires new approaches to materials synthesis that
make it possible to control material functionality down to the smallest scales.
An objective of materials research is to achieve enhanced control over the
physical properties of materials such as ferromagnets, ferroelectrics and
superconductors. In this context, complex oxides and inorganic perovskites are
attractive because slight adjustments of their atomic structures can produce
large physical responses and result in multiple functionalities. In addition,
these materials often contain ferroelastic domains. The intrinsic symmetry
breaking that takes place at the domain walls can induce properties absent from
the domains themselves, such as magnetic or ferroelectric order and other
functionalities, as well as coupling between them. Moreover, large domain wall
densities create intense strain gradients, which can also affect the material's
properties. Here we show that, owing to large local stresses, domain walls can
promote the formation of unusual phases. In this sense, the domain walls can
function as nanoscale chemical reactors. We synthesize a two-dimensional
ferromagnetic phase at the domain walls of the orthorhombic perovskite terbium
manganite (TbMnO3), which was grown in thin layers under epitaxial strain on
strontium titanate (SrTiO3) substrates. This phase is yet to be created by
standard chemical routes. The density of the two-dimensional sheets can be tuned 
by changing the film thickness or the substrate lattice parameter (that is, the
epitaxial strain), and the distance between sheets can be made as small as
5 nanometres in ultrathin films, such that the new phase at domain walls
represents up to 25 per cent of the film volume. The general concept of using
domain walls of epitaxial oxides to promote the formation of unusual phases may
be applicable to other materials systems, thus giving access to new classes of
nanoscale materials for applications in nanoelectronics and spintronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13918 
PMID: 25409828 


168. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):376-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13856.

The power of relativistic jets is larger than the luminosity of their accretion
disks.

Ghisellini G(1), Tavecchio F(1), Maraschi L(2), Celotti A(3), Sbarrato T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Nazionale di Astrofisica - Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via E. 
Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate, Italy.
(2)1] Istituto Nazionale di Astrofisica - Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via 
E. Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate, Italy [2] Istituto Nazionale di Astrofisica -
Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via E. Brera 28, I-20121 Milano, Italy.
(3)1] Istituto Nazionale di Astrofisica - Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via 
E. Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate, Italy [2] Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi
Avanzati, Via Bonomea 265, I-34135 Trieste, Italy [3] Istituto Nazionale di
Fisica Nucleare - Sezione di Trieste, Via Valerio 2, I-34127 Trieste, Italy.
(4)1] Istituto Nazionale di Astrofisica - Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera, Via 
E. Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate, Italy [2] Università dell'Insubria, Dipartimento
di Fisica e Matematica, Via Valleggio 11, I-22100 Como, Italy [3] European
Southern Observatory, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 2, 8578 Garching bei München,
Germany.

Theoretical models for the production of relativistic jets from active galactic
nuclei predict that jet power arises from the spin and mass of the central
supermassive black hole, as well as from the magnetic field near the event
horizon. The physical mechanism underlying the contribution from the magnetic
field is the torque exerted on the rotating black hole by the field amplified by 
the accreting material. If the squared magnetic field is proportional to the
accretion rate, then there will be a correlation between jet power and accretion 
luminosity. There is evidence for such a correlation, but inadequate knowledge of
the accretion luminosity of the limited and inhomogeneous samples used prevented 
a firm conclusion. Here we report an analysis of archival observations of a
sample of blazars (quasars whose jets point towards Earth) that overcomes
previous limitations. We find a clear correlation between jet power, as measured 
through the γ-ray luminosity, and accretion luminosity, as measured by the broad 
emission lines, with the jet power dominating the disk luminosity, in agreement
with numerical simulations. This implies that the magnetic field threading the
black hole horizon reaches the maximum value sustainable by the accreting matter.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13856 
PMID: 25409827 


169. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):371-375. doi: 10.1038/nature13985.

Principles of regulatory information conservation between mouse and human.

Cheng Y(#)(1), Ma Z(#)(1), Kim BH(2), Wu W(3), Cayting P(1), Boyle AP(1),
Sundaram V(4), Xing X(4), Dogan N(3), Li J(1), Euskirchen G(1), Lin S(1)(5), Lin 
Y(1)(6), Visel A(7)(8)(9), Kawli T(1), Yang X(1), Patacsil D(1), Keller CA(3),
Giardine B(3); mouse ENCODE Consortium, Kundaje A(1), Wang T(4), Pennacchio
LA(7)(8), Weng Z(2), Hardison RC(3), Snyder MP(1).

Collaborators: Yue F, Cheng Y, Breschi A, Vierstra J, Wu W, Ryba T, Sandstrom R, 
Ma Z, Davis C, Pope BD, Shen Y, Pervouchine DD, Djebali S, Thurman B, Kaul R,
Rynes E, Kirilusha A, Marinov GK, Williams BA, Trout D, Amrhein H, Fisher-Aylor
K, Antoshechkin I, DeSalvo G, See LH, Fastuca M, Drenkow J, Zaleski C, Dobin A,
Prieto P, Lagarde J, Bussotti G, Tanzer A, Denas O, Li K, Bender M, Zhang M,
Byron R, Groudine MT, McCleary D, Pham L, Ye Z, Kuan S, Edsall L, Wu YC,
Rasmussen MD, Bansal MS, Keller CA, Morrissey CS, Mishra T, Jain D, Dogan N,
Harris RS, Cayting P, Kawli T, Boyle AP, Euskirchen G, Kundaje A, Lin S, Lin Y,
Jansen C, Malladi VS, Cline MS, Erickson DT, Kirkup VM, Learned K, Sloan CA,
Rosenbloom KR, de Sousa BL, Beal K, Pignatelli M, Flicek P, Lian J, Kahveci T,
Lee D, Kent W, Santos MR, Herrero J, Notredame C, Johnson A, Vong S, Lee K, Bates
D, Neri F, Diegel M, Canfield T, Sabo PJ, Wilken MS, Reh TA, Giste E, Shafer A,
Kutyavin T, Haugen E, Dunn D, Reynolds AP, Neph S, Humbert R, Hansen R, De Bruijn
M, Selleri L, Rudensky A, Josefowicz S, Samstein R, Eichler EE, Orkin SH,
Levasseur D, Papayannopoulou T, Chang KH, Skoultchi A, Gosh S, Disteche C,
Treuting P, Wang Y, Weiss MJ, Blobel GA, Good PJ, Lowdon RF, Adams LB, Zhou XQ,
Pazin MJ, Feingold EA, Wold B, Taylor J, Kellis M, Mortazavi A, Weissman SM,
Stamatoyannopoulos J, Snyder MP, Guigo R, Gingeras TR, Gilbert DM, Hardison RC,
Beer MA, Ren B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
(2)Program in Bioinformatics and Integrative Biology, Department of Biochemistry 
and Molecular Pharmacology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA.
(3)Center for Comparative Genomics and Bioinformatics, Huck Institutes of the
Life Sciences, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, PA 16802, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics, Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63108, USA.
(5)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94304, 
USA.
(6)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO
63110, USA.
(7)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Genomics Division, Berkeley, CA
94701,USA.
(8)Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, CA 94598, USA.
(9)School of Natural Sciences, University of California, Merced, CA 95343,USA.
(#)Contributed equally

To broaden our understanding of the evolution of gene regulation mechanisms, we
generated occupancy profiles for 34 orthologous transcription factors (TFs) in
human-mouse erythroid progenitor, lymphoblast and embryonic stem-cell lines. By
combining the genome-wide transcription factor occupancy repertoires, associated 
epigenetic signals, and co-association patterns, here we deduce several
evolutionary principles of gene regulatory features operating since the mouse and
human lineages diverged. The genomic distribution profiles, primary binding
motifs, chromatin states, and DNA methylation preferences are well conserved for 
TF-occupied sequences. However, the extent to which orthologous DNA segments are 
bound by orthologous TFs varies both among TFs and with genomic location: binding
at promoters is more highly conserved than binding at distal elements. Notably,
occupancy-conserved TF-occupied sequences tend to be pleiotropic; they function
in several tissues and also co-associate with many TFs. Single nucleotide
variants at sites with potential regulatory functions are enriched in
occupancy-conserved TF-occupied sequences.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13985 
PMCID: PMC4343047
PMID: 25409826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):365-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13972.

Conservation of trans-acting circuitry during mammalian regulatory evolution.

Stergachis AB(1), Neph S(1), Sandstrom R(1), Haugen E(1), Reynolds AP(1), Zhang
M(2), Byron R(2), Canfield T(1), Stelhing-Sun S(1), Lee K(1), Thurman RE(1), Vong
S(1), Bates D(1), Neri F(1), Diegel M(1), Giste E(1), Dunn D(1), Vierstra J(1),
Hansen RS(3), Johnson AK(1), Sabo PJ(1), Wilken MS(4), Reh TA(4), Treuting PM(5),
Kaul R(3), Groudine M(6), Bender MA(7), Borenstein E(8), Stamatoyannopoulos
JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(2)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.
(3)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [2] Department of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(4)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(5)Department of Comparative Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(6)1] Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [2] Division of Radiation Oncology, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(7)1] Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [2] Department of Pediatrics, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(8)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [2] Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98102, USA [3] Santa Fe Institute, 
Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501, USA.

The basic body plan and major physiological axes have been highly conserved
during mammalian evolution, yet only a small fraction of the human genome
sequence appears to be subject to evolutionary constraint. To quantify cis-
versus trans-acting contributions to mammalian regulatory evolution, we performed
genomic DNase I footprinting of the mouse genome across 25 cell and tissue types,
collectively defining ∼8.6 million transcription factor (TF) occupancy sites at
nucleotide resolution. Here we show that mouse TF footprints conjointly encode a 
regulatory lexicon that is ∼95% similar with that derived from human TF
footprints. However, only ∼20% of mouse TF footprints have human orthologues.
Despite substantial turnover of the cis-regulatory landscape, nearly half of all 
pairwise regulatory interactions connecting mouse TF genes have been maintained
in orthologous human cell types through evolutionary innovation of TF recognition
sequences. Furthermore, the higher-level organization of mouse TF-to-TF
connections into cellular network architectures is nearly identical with human.
Our results indicate that evolutionary selection on mammalian gene regulation is 
targeted chiefly at the level of trans-regulatory circuitry, enabling and
potentiating cis-regulatory plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13972 
PMCID: PMC4405208
PMID: 25409825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):355-64. doi: 10.1038/nature13992.

A comparative encyclopedia of DNA elements in the mouse genome.

Yue F(1), Cheng Y(2), Breschi A(3), Vierstra J(4), Wu W(5), Ryba T(6), Sandstrom 
R(4), Ma Z(2), Davis C(7), Pope BD(6), Shen Y(8), Pervouchine DD(3), Djebali
S(3), Thurman RE(4), Kaul R(4), Rynes E(4), Kirilusha A(9), Marinov GK(9),
Williams BA(9), Trout D(9), Amrhein H(9), Fisher-Aylor K(9), Antoshechkin I(9),
DeSalvo G(9), See LH(7), Fastuca M(7), Drenkow J(7), Zaleski C(7), Dobin A(7),
Prieto P(3), Lagarde J(3), Bussotti G(3), Tanzer A(10), Denas O(11), Li K(11),
Bender MA(12), Zhang M(13), Byron R(13), Groudine MT(14), McCleary D(8), Pham
L(8), Ye Z(8), Kuan S(8), Edsall L(8), Wu YC(15), Rasmussen MD(15), Bansal
MS(15), Kellis M(16), Keller CA(5), Morrissey CS(5), Mishra T(5), Jain D(5),
Dogan N(5), Harris RS(5), Cayting P(2), Kawli T(2), Boyle AP(2), Euskirchen G(2),
Kundaje A(2), Lin S(2), Lin Y(2), Jansen C(17), Malladi VS(2), Cline MS(18),
Erickson DT(2), Kirkup VM(18), Learned K(18), Sloan CA(2), Rosenbloom KR(18),
Lacerda de Sousa B(19), Beal K(20), Pignatelli M(20), Flicek P(20), Lian J(21),
Kahveci T(22), Lee D(23), Kent WJ(18), Ramalho Santos M(19), Herrero J(24),
Notredame C(3), Johnson A(4), Vong S(4), Lee K(4), Bates D(4), Neri F(4), Diegel 
M(4), Canfield T(4), Sabo PJ(4), Wilken MS(25), Reh TA(25), Giste E(4), Shafer
A(4), Kutyavin T(4), Haugen E(4), Dunn D(4), Reynolds AP(4), Neph S(4), Humbert
R(4), Hansen RS(4), De Bruijn M(26), Selleri L(27), Rudensky A(28), Josefowicz
S(28), Samstein R(28), Eichler EE(4), Orkin SH(29), Levasseur D(30),
Papayannopoulou T(31), Chang KH(30), Skoultchi A(32), Gosh S(32), Disteche C(33),
Treuting P(34), Wang Y(35), Weiss MJ(36), Blobel GA(37), Cao X(38), Zhong S(38), 
Wang T(39), Good PJ(40), Lowdon RF(40), Adams LB(40), Zhou XQ(40), Pazin MJ(40), 
Feingold EA(40), Wold B(9), Taylor J(11), Mortazavi A(17), Weissman SM(21),
Stamatoyannopoulos JA(4), Snyder MP(2), Guigo R(3), Gingeras TR(7), Gilbert
DM(6), Hardison RC(5), Beer MA(23), Ren B(8); Mouse ENCODE Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)1] Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and University of California, San
Diego School of Medicine, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA. [2]
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, The
Pennsylvania State University, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics, Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Drive, MC-5477
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(3)Bioinformatics and Genomics, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG) and UPF,
Doctor Aiguader, 88, 08003 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(4)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(5)Center for Comparative Genomics and Bioinformatics, Huck Institutes of the
Life Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
16802, USA.
(6)Department of Biological Science, 319 Stadium Drive, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32306-4295, USA.
(7)Functional Genomics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Bungtown Road, Cold Spring
Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(8)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and University of California, San Diego
School of Medicine, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(9)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 
91125, USA.
(10)1] Bioinformatics and Genomics, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG) and UPF, 
Doctor Aiguader, 88, 08003 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. [2] Department of
Theoretical Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, University of Vienna,
Waehringerstrasse 17/3/303, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
(11)Departments of Biology and Mathematics and Computer Science, Emory
University, O. Wayne Rollins Research Center, 1510 Clifton Road NE, Atlanta,
Georgia 30322, USA.
(12)1] Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA. [2] Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(13)Basic Science Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA.
(14)1] Basic Science Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA. [2] Department of Radiation Oncology, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(15)Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(16)1] Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. [2] Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(17)Department of Developmental and Cell Biology, University of California,
Irvine, Irvine, California 92697, USA.
(18)Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, School of Engineering,
University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC), Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(19)Departments of Obstetrics/Gynecology and Pathology, and Center for
Reproductive Sciences, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,
California 94143, USA.
(20)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute,
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK.
(21)Yale University, Department of Genetics, PO Box 208005, 333 Cedar Street, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8005, USA.
(22)Computer &Information Sciences &Engineering, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
(23)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine and Department of Biomedical
Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, 733 N. Broadway, BRB 573 Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.
(24)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute, 
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. [2] Bill Lyons
Informatics Centre, UCL Cancer Institute, University College London, London WC1E 
6DD, UK.
(25)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, HSB I-516, 1959
NE Pacific Street, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(26)MRC Molecular Haemotology Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DS, UK.
(27)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Weill Cornell Medical College, 
New York, New York 10065, USA.
(28)HHMI and Ludwig Center at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Immunology 
Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Canter, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(29)Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(30)University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Department of Internal
Medicine, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.
(31)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(32)Department of Cell Biology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New
York 10461, USA.
(33)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA.
(34)Department of Comparative Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(35)Bioinformatics and Genomics program, The Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(36)Department of Hematology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(37)1] Division of Hematology, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. [2] Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(38)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, 9500
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(39)Department of Genetics, Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(40)NHGRI, National Institutes of Health, 5635 Fishers Lane, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-9307, USA.

The laboratory mouse shares the majority of its protein-coding genes with humans,
making it the premier model organism in biomedical research, yet the two mammals 
differ in significant ways. To gain greater insights into both shared and
species-specific transcriptional and cellular regulatory programs in the mouse,
the Mouse ENCODE Consortium has mapped transcription, DNase I hypersensitivity,
transcription factor binding, chromatin modifications and replication domains
throughout the mouse genome in diverse cell and tissue types. By comparing with
the human genome, we not only confirm substantial conservation in the newly
annotated potential functional sequences, but also find a large degree of
divergence of sequences involved in transcriptional regulation, chromatin state
and higher order chromatin organization. Our results illuminate the wide range of
evolutionary forces acting on genes and their regulatory regions, and provide a
general resource for research into mammalian biology and mechanisms of human
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13992 
PMCID: PMC4266106
PMID: 25409824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):384-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13854. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

Approaching disorder-free transport in high-mobility conjugated polymers.

Venkateshvaran D(1), Nikolka M(1), Sadhanala A(1), Lemaur V(2), Zelazny M(1),
Kepa M(3), Hurhangee M(4), Kronemeijer AJ(1), Pecunia V(1), Nasrallah I(1),
Romanov I(1), Broch K(1), McCulloch I(4), Emin D(5), Olivier Y(2), Cornil J(2),
Beljonne D(2), Sirringhaus H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Optoelectronics Group, Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, JJ
Thomson Avenue, Cambridge CB3 0HE, UK.
(2)Laboratory for Chemistry of Novel Materials, Université de Mons, 20 Place du
Parc, 7000 Mons, Belgium.
(3)Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions, University of Edinburgh, Mayfield
Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JZ, UK.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Centre for Plastic Electronics, Imperial College
London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.
(5)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, 1919 Lomas
Boulevard Northeast, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131, USA.

Conjugated polymers enable the production of flexible semiconductor devices that 
can be processed from solution at low temperatures. Over the past 25 years,
device performance has improved greatly as a wide variety of molecular structures
have been studied. However, one major limitation has not been overcome; transport
properties in polymer films are still limited by pervasive conformational and
energetic disorder. This not only limits the rational design of materials with
higher performance, but also prevents the study of physical phenomena associated 
with an extended π-electron delocalization along the polymer backbone. Here we
report a comparative transport study of several high-mobility conjugated polymers
by field-effect-modulated Seebeck, transistor and sub-bandgap optical absorption 
measurements. We show that in several of these polymers, most notably in a
recently reported, indacenodithiophene-based donor-acceptor copolymer with a
near-amorphous microstructure, the charge transport properties approach intrinsic
disorder-free limits at which all molecular sites are thermally accessible.
Molecular dynamics simulations identify the origin of this long sought-after
regime as a planar, torsion-free backbone conformation that is surprisingly
resilient to side-chain disorder. Our results provide molecular-design guidelines
for 'disorder-free' conjugated polymers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13854 
PMID: 25383522 


173. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):431-435. doi: 10.1038/nature13909. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

Ischaemic accumulation of succinate controls reperfusion injury through
mitochondrial ROS.

Chouchani ET(#)(1)(2), Pell VR(#)(2), Gaude E(3), Aksentijević D(4), Sundier
SY(5), Robb EL(1), Logan A(1), Nadtochiy SM(6), Ord ENJ(7), Smith AC(1), Eyassu
F(1), Shirley R(7), Hu CH(2), Dare AJ(1), James AM(1), Rogatti S(1), Hartley
RC(8), Eaton S(9), Costa ASH(3), Brookes PS(6), Davidson SM(10), Duchen MR(5),
Saeb-Parsy K(11), Shattock MJ(4), Robinson AJ(1), Work LM(7), Frezza C(3), Krieg 
T(2), Murphy MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills
Road, Cambridge, CB2 0QQ, UK.
(3)MRC Cancer Unit, University of Cambridge, Hutchison/MRC Research Centre, Box
197, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge, CB2 0XZ, UK.
(4)King's College London, British Heart Foundation Centre of Excellence, The
Rayne Institute, St Thomas' Hospital, London SE1 7EH, UK.
(5)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology and UCL Consortium for
Mitochondrial Biology, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, 
UK.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Rochester Medical Center, 601
Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.
(7)Institute of Cardiovascular & Medical Sciences, College of Medical, Veterinary
and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8TA, UK.
(8)School of Chemistry, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8TA, UK.
(9)Unit of Paediatric Surgery, UCL Institute of Child Health, London, WC1N 1EH,
UK.
(10)Hatter Cardiovascular Institute, University College London, 67 Chenies Mews, 
London, WC1E 6HX, UK.
(11)University Department of Surgery and Cambridge NIHR Biomedical Research
Centre, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, CB2 0QQ, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2015 May;148(5):1071-3.
    Neurosurgery. 2015 Dec;77(6):N13-4.
    Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):350-1.

Ischaemia-reperfusion injury occurs when the blood supply to an organ is
disrupted and then restored, and underlies many disorders, notably heart attack
and stroke. While reperfusion of ischaemic tissue is essential for survival, it
also initiates oxidative damage, cell death and aberrant immune responses through
the generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS). Although
mitochondrial ROS production in ischaemia reperfusion is established, it has
generally been considered a nonspecific response to reperfusion. Here we develop 
a comparative in vivo metabolomic analysis, and unexpectedly identify widely
conserved metabolic pathways responsible for mitochondrial ROS production during 
ischaemia reperfusion. We show that selective accumulation of the citric acid
cycle intermediate succinate is a universal metabolic signature of ischaemia in a
range of tissues and is responsible for mitochondrial ROS production during
reperfusion. Ischaemic succinate accumulation arises from reversal of succinate
dehydrogenase, which in turn is driven by fumarate overflow from purine
nucleotide breakdown and partial reversal of the malate/aspartate shuttle. After 
reperfusion, the accumulated succinate is rapidly re-oxidized by succinate
dehydrogenase, driving extensive ROS generation by reverse electron transport at 
mitochondrial complex I. Decreasing ischaemic succinate accumulation by
pharmacological inhibition is sufficient to ameliorate in vivo
ischaemia-reperfusion injury in murine models of heart attack and stroke. Thus,
we have identified a conserved metabolic response of tissues to ischaemia and
reperfusion that unifies many hitherto unconnected aspects of
ischaemia-reperfusion injury. Furthermore, these findings reveal a new pathway
for metabolic control of ROS production in vivo, while demonstrating that
inhibition of ischaemic succinate accumulation and its oxidation after subsequent
reperfusion is a potential therapeutic target to decrease ischaemia-reperfusion
injury in a range of pathologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13909 
PMCID: PMC4255242
PMID: 25383517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):389-93. doi: 10.1038/nature13885. Epub 2014 Nov 10.

Overcoming the limitations of directed C-H functionalizations of heterocycles.

Liu YJ(1), Xu H(1), Kong WJ(1), Shang M(1), Dai HX(1), Yu JQ(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Organometallic Chemistry, Shanghai Institute of
Organic Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 345 Lingling Road, Shanghai
200032, China.
(2)1] State Key Laboratory of Organometallic Chemistry, Shanghai Institute of
Organic Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 345 Lingling Road, Shanghai
200032, China [2] Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 
North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

In directed C-H activation reactions, any nitrogen or sulphur atoms present in
heterocyclic substrates will coordinate strongly with metal catalysts. This
coordination, which can lead to catalyst poisoning or C-H functionalization at an
undesired position, limits the application of C-H activation reactions in
heterocycle-based drug discovery, in which regard they have attracted much
interest from pharmaceutical companies. Here we report a robust and synthetically
useful method that overcomes the complications associated with performing C-H
functionalization reactions on heterocycles. Our approach employs a simple
N-methoxy amide group, which serves as both a directing group and an anionic
ligand that promotes the in situ generation of the reactive PdX2 (X = ArCONOMe)
species from a Pd(0) source using air as the sole oxidant. In this way, the PdX2 
species is localized near the target C-H bond, avoiding interference from any
nitrogen or sulphur atoms present in the heterocyclic substrates. This reaction
overrides the conventional positional selectivity patterns observed with
substrates containing strongly coordinating heteroatoms, including nitrogen,
sulphur and phosphorus. Thus, this operationally simple aerobic reaction
demonstrates that it is possible to bypass a fundamental limitation that has long
plagued applications of directed C-H activation in medicinal chemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13885 
PMCID: PMC4248606
PMID: 25383516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):440-2. doi: 10.1038/nature13900. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

A cross-chiral RNA polymerase ribozyme.

Sczepanski JT(1), Joyce GF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology, The
Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California
92037, USA.

Comment in
    Chembiochem. 2015 Apr 13;16(6):899-901.
    Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):347-8.

Thirty years ago it was shown that the non-enzymatic, template-directed
polymerization of activated mononucleotides proceeds readily in a homochiral
system, but is severely inhibited by the presence of the opposing enantiomer.
This finding poses a severe challenge for the spontaneous emergence of RNA-based 
life, and has led to the suggestion that either RNA was preceded by some other
genetic polymer that is not subject to chiral inhibition or chiral symmetry was
broken through chemical processes before the origin of RNA-based life. Once an
RNA enzyme arose that could catalyse the polymerization of RNA, it would have
been possible to distinguish among the two enantiomers, enabling RNA replication 
and RNA-based evolution to occur. It is commonly thought that the earliest RNA
polymerase and its substrates would have been of the same handedness, but this is
not necessarily the case. Replicating D- and L-RNA molecules may have emerged
together, based on the ability of structured RNAs of one handedness to catalyse
the templated polymerization of activated mononucleotides of the opposite
handedness. Here we develop such a cross-chiral RNA polymerase, using in vitro
evolution starting from a population of random-sequence RNAs. The D-RNA enzyme,
consisting of 83 nucleotides, catalyses the joining of L-mono- or oligonucleotide
substrates on a complementary L-RNA template, and similar behaviour occurs for
the L-enzyme with D-substrates and a D-template. Chiral inhibition is avoided
because the 10(6)-fold rate acceleration of the enzyme only pertains to
cross-chiral substrates. The enzyme's activity is sufficient to generate
full-length copies of its enantiomer through the templated joining of 11
component oligonucleotides.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13900 
PMCID: PMC4239201
PMID: 25363769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13919. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Tissue-specific clocks in Arabidopsis show asymmetric coupling.

Endo M(1), Shimizu H(2), Nohales MA(3), Araki T(2), Kay SA(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Integrated Life Science, Graduate School of Biostudies, Kyoto
University, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan [2] Japan Science and Technology Agency,
PRESTO, 4-1-8 Honcho Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012, Japan.
(2)Division of Integrated Life Science, Graduate School of Biostudies, Kyoto
University, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.
(3)University of Southern California Molecular and Computational Biology,
Department of Biology, Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and
Sciences, Los Angeles, California 90089, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):352-3.

Many organisms rely on a circadian clock system to adapt to daily and seasonal
environmental changes. The mammalian circadian clock consists of a central clock 
in the suprachiasmatic nucleus that has tightly coupled neurons and synchronizes 
other clocks in peripheral tissues. Plants also have a circadian clock, but plant
circadian clock function has long been assumed to be uncoupled. Only a few
studies have been able to show weak, local coupling among cells. Here, by
implementing two novel techniques, we have performed a comprehensive
tissue-specific analysis of leaf tissues, and show that the vasculature and
mesophyll clocks asymmetrically regulate each other in Arabidopsis. The circadian
clock in the vasculature has characteristics distinct from other tissues, cycles 
robustly without environmental cues, and affects circadian clock regulation in
other tissues. Furthermore, we found that vasculature-enriched genes that are
rhythmically expressed are preferentially expressed in the evening, whereas
rhythmic mesophyll-enriched genes tend to be expressed in the morning. Our
results set the stage for a deeper understanding of how the vasculature circadian
clock in plants regulates key physiological responses such as flowering time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13919 
PMCID: PMC4270698
PMID: 25363766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):410-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13696. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Individual improvements and selective mortality shape lifelong migratory
performance.

Sergio F(1), Tanferna A(1), De Stephanis R(1), Jiménez LL(1), Blas J(1),
Tavecchia G(2), Preatoni D(3), Hiraldo F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Conservation Biology, Estación Biológica de Doñana-CSIC, Avenida
Americo Vespucio, 41092 Seville, Spain.
(2)Population Ecology Group, Institute for Mediterranean Studies (IMEDEA),
CSIC-UIB, 07190 Esporles, Spain.
(3)Department of Theoretical and Applied Sciences, Insubria University, 21100
Varese, Italy.

Billions of organisms, from bacteria to humans, migrate each year and research on
their migration biology is expanding rapidly through ever more sophisticated
remote sensing technologies. However, little is known about how migratory
performance develops through life for any organism. To date, age variation has
been almost systematically simplified into a dichotomous comparison between
recently born juveniles at their first migration versus adults of unknown age.
These comparisons have regularly highlighted better migratory performance by
adults compared with juveniles, but it is unknown whether such variation is
gradual or abrupt and whether it is driven by improvements within the individual,
by selective mortality of poor performers, or both. Here we exploit the
opportunity offered by long-term monitoring of individuals through Global
Positioning System (GPS) satellite tracking to combine within-individual and
cross-sectional data on 364 migration episodes from 92 individuals of a raptorial
bird, aged 1-27 years old. We show that the development of migratory behaviour
follows a consistent trajectory, more gradual and prolonged than previously
appreciated, and that this is promoted by both individual improvements and
selective mortality, mainly operating in early life and during the pre-breeding
migration. Individuals of different age used different travelling tactics and
varied in their ability to exploit tailwinds or to cope with wind drift. All
individuals seemed aligned along a race with their contemporary peers, whose
outcome was largely determined by the ability to depart early, affecting their
subsequent recruitment, reproduction and survival. Understanding how climate
change and human action can affect the migration of younger animals may be the
key to managing and forecasting the declines of many threatened migrants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13696 
PMID: 25252973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):423-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13738. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Members of the human gut microbiota involved in recovery from Vibrio cholerae
infection.

Hsiao A(1), Ahmed AM(2), Subramanian S(1), Griffin NW(1), Drewry LL(1), Petri WA 
Jr(3), Haque R(4), Ahmed T(4), Gordon JI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(2)1] School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland 4006, Australia [2] Centre for Nutrition and Food Security,
International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh.
(3)1] Department of Medicine, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, University
of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA [3]
Department of Pathology, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.
(4)Centre for Nutrition and Food Security, International Centre for Diarrhoeal
Disease Research, Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh.

Comment in
    Trends Microbiol. 2014 Dec;22(12):660-2.
    Cell Host Microbe. 2014 Nov 12;16(5):549-50.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Nov;12(11):726.

Given the global burden of diarrhoeal diseases, it is important to understand how
members of the gut microbiota affect the risk for, course of, and recovery from
disease in children and adults. The acute, voluminous diarrhoea caused by Vibrio 
cholerae represents a dramatic example of enteropathogen invasion and gut
microbial community disruption. Here we conduct a detailed time-series
metagenomic study of faecal microbiota collected during the acute diarrhoeal and 
recovery phases of cholera in a cohort of Bangladeshi adults living in an area
with a high burden of disease. We find that recovery is characterized by a
pattern of accumulation of bacterial taxa that shows similarities to the pattern 
of assembly/maturation of the gut microbiota in healthy Bangladeshi children. To 
define the underlying mechanisms, we introduce into gnotobiotic mice an
artificial community composed of human gut bacterial species that directly
correlate with recovery from cholera in adults and are indicative of normal
microbiota maturation in healthy Bangladeshi children. One of the species,
Ruminococcus obeum, exhibits consistent increases in its relative abundance upon 
V. cholerae infection of the mice. Follow-up analyses, including mono- and
co-colonization studies, establish that R. obeum restricts V. cholerae
colonization, that R. obeum luxS (autoinducer-2 (AI-2) synthase) expression and
AI-2 production increase significantly with V. cholerae invasion, and that R.
obeum AI-2 causes quorum-sensing-mediated repression of several V. cholerae
colonization factors. Co-colonization with V. cholerae mutants discloses that R. 
obeum AI-2 reduces Vibrio colonization/pathogenicity through a novel pathway that
does not depend on the V. cholerae AI-2 sensor, LuxP. The approach described can 
be used to mine the gut microbiota of Bangladeshi or other populations for
members that use autoinducers and/or other mechanisms to limit colonization with 
V. cholerae, or conceivably other enteropathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13738 
PMCID: PMC4353411
PMID: 25231861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):443-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13713. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

Discovery and characterization of small molecules that target the GTPase Ral.

Yan C(1), Liu D(2), Li L(2), Wempe MF(3), Guin S(1), Khanna M(2), Meier J(4),
Hoffman B(4), Owens C(1), Wysoczynski CL(5), Nitz MD(6), Knabe WE(2), Ahmed M(7),
Brautigan DL(6), Paschal BM(8), Schwartz MA(7), Jones DN(5), Ross D(3), Meroueh
SO(9), Theodorescu D(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado, Aurora,
Colorado 80045, USA.
(4)Cardiovascular Research Center, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22908, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado 80045,
USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Cancer Biology, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.
(7)1] Department of Cardiology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511,
USA [2] Department of Cell Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06511, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.
(9)1] Department of Biochemistry, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical
Biology, Indiana University - Purdue University, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202,
USA.
(10)1] Department of Surgery, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA
[2] Department of Pharmacology, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado 80045,
USA [3] University of Colorado Comprehensive Cancer Center, Aurora, Colorado
80045, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Jul;194(1):259.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2014 Dec;11(12):658.

The Ras-like GTPases RalA and RalB are important drivers of tumour growth and
metastasis. Chemicals that block Ral function would be valuable as research tools
and for cancer therapeutics. Here we used protein structure analysis and virtual 
screening to identify drug-like molecules that bind to a site on the GDP-bound
form of Ral. The compounds RBC6, RBC8 and RBC10 inhibited the binding of Ral to
its effector RALBP1, as well as inhibiting Ral-mediated cell spreading of murine 
embryonic fibroblasts and anchorage-independent growth of human cancer cell
lines. The binding of the RBC8 derivative BQU57 to RalB was confirmed by
isothermal titration calorimetry, surface plasmon resonance and (1)H-(15)N
transverse relaxation-optimized spectroscopy (TROSY) NMR spectroscopy. RBC8 and
BQU57 show selectivity for Ral relative to the GTPases Ras and RhoA and inhibit
tumour xenograft growth to a similar extent to the depletion of Ral using RNA
interference. Our results show the utility of structure-based discovery for the
development of therapeutics for Ral-dependent cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13713 
PMCID: PMC4351747
PMID: 25219851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):406-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13687. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

The drivers of tropical speciation.

Smith BT(1), McCormack JE(2), Cuervo AM(3), Hickerson MJ(4), Aleixo A(5), Cadena 
CD(6), Pérez-Emán J(7), Burney CW(3), Xie X(8), Harvey MG(9), Faircloth BC(10),
Glenn TC(11), Derryberry EP(2), Prejean J(9), Fields S(9), Brumfield RT(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Department of Ornithology, American Museum of Natural
History, New York, New York 10024, USA [3].
(2)1] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Moore Laboratory of Zoology, Occidental College, 1600
Campus Road, Los Angeles, California 90041, USA (J.E.M.); Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana 70118, USA
(A.M.C. &E.P.D.); Department of Biology, 2355 Faculty Drive, Suite 2P483, United 
States Air Force Academy, Colorado 80840, USA (C.W.B.); Department of Biological 
Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA (B.C.F.).
(3)1] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State
University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA [3] Moore Laboratory of Zoology,
Occidental College, 1600 Campus Road, Los Angeles, California 90041, USA
(J.E.M.); Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane University, New 
Orleans, Louisiana 70118, USA (A.M.C. &E.P.D.); Department of Biology, 2355
Faculty Drive, Suite 2P483, United States Air Force Academy, Colorado 80840, USA 
(C.W.B.); Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA (B.C.F.).
(4)1] Biology Department, City College of New York, New York, New York 10031, USA
[2] Division of Invertebrate Zoology, American Museum of Natural History, New
York, New York 10024, USA.
(5)Coordenação de Zoologia, Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, Caixa Postal 399, CEP
66040-170, Belém, Brazil.
(6)Laboratorio de Biología Evolutiva de Vertebrados, Departamento de Ciencias
Biológicas, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia.
(7)1] Instituto de Zoología y Ecología Tropical, Universidad Central de
Venezuela, Av. Los Ilustres, Los Chaguaramos, Apartado Postal 47058, Caracas
1041-A, Venezuela [2] Colección Ornitológica Phelps, Apartado 2009, Caracas
1010-A, Venezuela.
(8)Biology Department, City College of New York, New York, New York 10031, USA.
(9)1] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State
University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA.
(10)1] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, 
Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] Moore Laboratory of Zoology, Occidental
College, 1600 Campus Road, Los Angeles, California 90041, USA (J.E.M.);
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane University, New Orleans,
Louisiana 70118, USA (A.M.C. &E.P.D.); Department of Biology, 2355 Faculty Drive,
Suite 2P483, United States Air Force Academy, Colorado 80840, USA (C.W.B.);
Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA (B.C.F.).
(11)Department of Environmental Health Science, University of Georgia, Athens,
Georgia 30602, USA.
(12)1] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State
University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA [3].

Since the recognition that allopatric speciation can be induced by large-scale
reconfigurations of the landscape that isolate formerly continuous populations,
such as the separation of continents by plate tectonics, the uplift of mountains 
or the formation of large rivers, landscape change has been viewed as a primary
driver of biological diversification. This process is referred to in biogeography
as vicariance. In the most species-rich region of the world, the Neotropics, the 
sundering of populations associated with the Andean uplift is ascribed this
principal role in speciation. An alternative model posits that rather than being 
directly linked to landscape change, allopatric speciation is initiated to a
greater extent by dispersal events, with the principal drivers of speciation
being organism-specific abilities to persist and disperse in the landscape.
Landscape change is not a necessity for speciation in this model. Here we show
that spatial and temporal patterns of genetic differentiation in Neotropical
birds are highly discordant across lineages and are not reconcilable with a model
linking speciation solely to landscape change. Instead, the strongest predictors 
of speciation are the amount of time a lineage has persisted in the landscape and
the ability of birds to move through the landscape matrix. These results,
augmented by the observation that most species-level diversity originated after
episodes of major Andean uplift in the Neogene period, suggest that dispersal and
differentiation on a matrix previously shaped by large-scale landscape events was
a major driver of avian speciation in lowland Neotropical rainforests.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13687 
PMID: 25209666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):436-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13682. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Transcript-RNA-templated DNA recombination and repair.

Keskin H(1), Shen Y(2), Huang F(3), Patel M(3), Yang T(1), Ashley K(1), Mazin
AV(3), Storici F(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332,
USA.
(2)1] School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332,
USA [2] Division of Computational Biomedicine, Boston University School of
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Drexel University College of
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102, USA.

Homologous recombination is a molecular process that has multiple important roles
in DNA metabolism, both for DNA repair and genetic variation in all forms of
life. Generally, homologous recombination involves the exchange of genetic
information between two identical or nearly identical DNA molecules; however,
homologous recombination can also occur between RNA molecules, as shown for RNA
viruses. Previous research showed that synthetic RNA oligonucleotides can act as 
templates for DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair in yeast and human cells, and 
artificial long RNA templates injected in ciliate cells can guide genomic
rearrangements. Here we report that endogenous transcript RNA mediates homologous
recombination with chromosomal DNA in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We
developed a system to detect the events of homologous recombination initiated by 
transcript RNA following the repair of a chromosomal DSB occurring either in a
homologous but remote locus, or in the same transcript-generating locus in
reverse-transcription-defective yeast strains. We found that RNA-DNA
recombination is blocked by ribonucleases H1 and H2. In the presence of H-type
ribonucleases, DSB repair proceeds through a complementary DNA intermediate,
whereas in their absence, it proceeds directly through RNA. The proximity of the 
transcript to its chromosomal DNA partner in the same locus facilitates
Rad52-driven homologous recombination during DSB repair. We demonstrate that
yeast and human Rad52 proteins efficiently catalyse annealing of RNA to a
DSB-like DNA end in vitro. Our results reveal a novel mechanism of homologous
recombination and DNA repair in which transcript RNA is used as a template for
DSB repair. Thus, considering the abundance of RNA transcripts in cells, RNA may 
have a marked impact on genomic stability and plasticity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13682 
PMCID: PMC4899968
PMID: 25186730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):448-452. doi: 10.1038/nature13670. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Structures of bacterial homologues of SWEET transporters in two distinct
conformations.

Xu Y(#)(1), Tao Y(#)(1), Cheung LS(#)(2), Fan C(1), Chen LQ(2), Xu S(3), Perry
K(4), Frommer WB(2), Feng L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, 279 Campus Drive, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford CA 94305.
(2)Department of Plant Biology, Carnegie Institution for Science, 260 Panama St.,
Stanford, CA 94305.
(3)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305.
(4)NE-CAT and Dep. of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University,
Building 436E, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass Avenue, Argonne, IL
60439.
(#)Contributed equally

SWEETs and their prokaryotic homologues are monosaccharide and disaccharide
transporters that are present from Archaea to plants and humans. SWEETs play
crucial roles in cellular sugar efflux processes: that is, in phloem loading,
pollen nutrition and nectar secretion. Their bacterial homologues, which are
called SemiSWEETs, are among the smallest known transporters. Here we show that
SemiSWEET molecules, which consist of a triple-helix bundle, form symmetrical,
parallel dimers, thereby generating the translocation pathway. Two SemiSWEET
isoforms were crystallized, one in an apparently open state and one in an
occluded state, indicating that SemiSWEETs and SWEETs are transporters that
undergo rocking-type movements during the transport cycle. The topology of the
triple-helix bundle is similar yet distinct to that of the basic building block
of animal and plant major facilitator superfamily (MFS) transporters (for
example, GLUTs and SUTs). This finding indicates two possibilities: that SWEETs
and MFS transporters evolved from an ancestral triple-helix bundle or that the
triple-helix bundle represents convergent evolution. In SemiSWEETs and SWEETs,
two triple-helix bundles are arranged in a parallel configuration to produce the 
6- and 6 + 1-transmembrane-helix pores, respectively. In the
12-transmembrane-helix MFS transporters, four triple-helix bundles are arranged
into an alternating antiparallel configuration, resulting in a much larger 2 × 2 
triple-helix bundle forming the pore. Given the similarity of SemiSWEETs and
SWEETs to PQ-loop amino acid transporters and to mitochondrial pyruvate carriers 
(MPCs), the structures characterized here may also be relevant to other
transporters in the MtN3 clan. The insight gained from the structures of these
transporters and from the analysis of mutations of conserved residues will
improve the understanding of the transport mechanism, as well as allow
comparative studies of the different superfamilies involved in sugar transport
and the evolution of transporters in general.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13670 
PMCID: PMC4300204
PMID: 25186729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):427-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13715. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Structure of malaria invasion protein RH5 with erythrocyte basigin and blocking
antibodies.

Wright KE(1), Hjerrild KA(2), Bartlett J(1), Douglas AD(2), Jin J(2), Brown
RE(2), Illingworth JJ(2), Ashfield R(2), Clemmensen SB(3), de Jongh WA(3), Draper
SJ(2), Higgins MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3QU, UK.
(2)Jenner Institute, University of Oxford, Old Road Campus Research Building,
Roosevelt Drive, Oxford OX3 7DQ, UK.
(3)ExpreS2ion Biotechnologies, SCION-DTU Science Park, Agern Allé 1, DK-2970
Horsholm, Denmark.

Invasion of host erythrocytes is essential to the life cycle of Plasmodium
parasites and development of the pathology of malaria. The stages of erythrocyte 
invasion, including initial contact, apical reorientation, junction formation,
and active invagination, are directed by coordinated release of specialized
apical organelles and their parasite protein contents. Among these proteins, and 
central to invasion by all species, are two parasite protein families, the
reticulocyte-binding protein homologue (RH) and erythrocyte-binding like
proteins, which mediate host-parasite interactions. RH5 from Plasmodium
falciparum (PfRH5) is the only member of either family demonstrated to be
necessary for erythrocyte invasion in all tested strains, through its interaction
with the erythrocyte surface protein basigin (also known as CD147 and EMMPRIN).
Antibodies targeting PfRH5 or basigin efficiently block parasite invasion in
vitro, making PfRH5 an excellent vaccine candidate. Here we present crystal
structures of PfRH5 in complex with basigin and two distinct inhibitory
antibodies. PfRH5 adopts a novel fold in which two three-helical bundles come
together in a kite-like architecture, presenting binding sites for basigin and
inhibitory antibodies at one tip. This provides the first structural insight into
erythrocyte binding by the Plasmodium RH protein family and identifies novel
inhibitory epitopes to guide design of a new generation of vaccines against the
blood-stage parasite.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13715 
PMCID: PMC4240730
PMID: 25132548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Nature. 2014 Nov 20;515(7527):414-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13716. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Synaptic dysregulation in a human iPS cell model of mental disorders.

Wen Z(1), Nguyen HN(2), Guo Z(3), Lalli MA(4), Wang X(5), Su Y(6), Kim NS(6),
Yoon KJ(6), Shin J(7), Zhang C(6), Makri G(6), Nauen D(8), Yu H(6), Guzman E(4), 
Chiang CH(9), Yoritomo N(10), Kaibuchi K(11), Zou J(12), Christian KM(6), Cheng
L(12), Ross CA(13), Margolis RL(13), Chen G(14), Kosik KS(4), Song H(15), Ming
GL(15).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Neurology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [3].
(2)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Graduate Program in Cellular and
Molecular Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA [3].
(3)1] Department of Biology, Huck Institutes of Life Sciences, The Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2].
(4)Neuroscience Research Institute, Department of Molecular Cellular and
Developmental Biology, Biomolecular Science and Engineering Program, University
of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.
(5)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] School of Basic Medical Sciences,
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(6)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Neurology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(7)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Graduate Program in Cellular and
Molecular Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.
(8)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Pathology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(9)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Neurology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [3] The
Solomon Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(11)Department of Cell Pharmacology, Nagoya University Graduate School of
Medicine, Showa, Nagoya 466-8550, Japan.
(12)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(13)1] Graduate Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] The Solomon
Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [3] Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205,
USA.
(14)Department of Biology, Huck Institutes of Life Sciences, The Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(15)1] Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Neurology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [3]
Graduate Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [4] The Solomon Snyder
Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Dysregulated neurodevelopment with altered structural and functional connectivity
is believed to underlie many neuropsychiatric disorders, and 'a disease of
synapses' is the major hypothesis for the biological basis of schizophrenia.
Although this hypothesis has gained indirect support from human post-mortem brain
analyses and genetic studies, little is known about the pathophysiology of
synapses in patient neurons and how susceptibility genes for mental disorders
could lead to synaptic deficits in humans. Genetics of most psychiatric disorders
are extremely complex due to multiple susceptibility variants with low penetrance
and variable phenotypes. Rare, multiply affected, large families in which a
single genetic locus is probably responsible for conferring susceptibility have
proven invaluable for the study of complex disorders. Here we generated induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from four members of a family in which a frameshift 
mutation of disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) co-segregated with major
psychiatric disorders and we further produced different isogenic iPS cell lines
via gene editing. We showed that mutant DISC1 causes synaptic vesicle release
deficits in iPS-cell-derived forebrain neurons. Mutant DISC1 depletes wild-type
DISC1 protein and, furthermore, dysregulates expression of many genes related to 
synapses and psychiatric disorders in human forebrain neurons. Our study reveals 
that a psychiatric disorder relevant mutation causes synapse deficits and
transcriptional dysregulation in human neurons and our findings provide new
insight into the molecular and synaptic etiopathology of psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13716 
PMCID: PMC4501856
PMID: 25132547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):264-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13973.

Radial glia require PDGFD-PDGFRβ signalling in human but not mouse neocortex.

Lui JH(1), Nowakowski TJ(1), Pollen AA(1), Javaherian A(1), Kriegstein AR(1),
Oldham MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and The Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration
Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):206-7.

Evolutionary expansion of the human neocortex underlies many of our unique mental
abilities. This expansion has been attributed to the increased proliferative
potential of radial glia (RG; neural stem cells) and their subventricular
dispersion from the periventricular niche during neocortical development. Such
adaptations may have evolved through gene expression changes in RG. However,
whether or how RG gene expression varies between humans and other species is
unknown. Here we show that the transcriptional profiles of human and mouse
neocortical RG are broadly conserved during neurogenesis, yet diverge for
specific signalling pathways. By analysing differential gene co-expression
relationships between the species, we demonstrate that the growth factor PDGFD is
specifically expressed by RG in human, but not mouse, corticogenesis. We also
show that the expression domain of PDGFRβ, the cognate receptor for PDGFD, is
evolutionarily divergent, with high expression in the germinal region of dorsal
human neocortex but not in the mouse. Pharmacological inhibition of PDGFD-PDGFRβ 
signalling in slice culture prevents normal cell cycle progression of neocortical
RG in human, but not mouse. Conversely, injection of recombinant PDGFD or ectopic
expression of constitutively active PDGFRβ in developing mouse neocortex
increases the proportion of RG and their subventricular dispersion. These
findings highlight the requirement of PDGFD-PDGFRβ signalling for human
neocortical development and suggest that local production of growth factors by RG
supports the expanded germinal region and progenitor heterogeneity of species
with large brains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13973 
PMCID: PMC4231536
PMID: 25391964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):253-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13878.

Subduction-driven recycling of continental margin lithosphere.

Levander A(1), Bezada MJ(2), Niu F(3), Humphreys ED(4), Palomeras I(1), Thurner
SM(1), Masy J(1), Schmitz M(5), Gallart J(6), Carbonell R(6), Miller MS(7).

Author information: 
(1)Earth Science Department, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005-1892, USA.
(2)1] Department of Geological Sciences, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon
97043, USA [2] Department of Earth Sciences, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455-0231, USA.
(3)1] Earth Science Department, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005-1892, USA
[2] State Key Laboratory of Petroleum Resources and Prospecting, and
Unconventional Natural Gas Institute, China, University of Petroleum, Beijing
102249, China.
(4)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97043,
USA.
(5)Fundación Venezolana de Investigaciones Sismológicas, Caracas 1073, Venezuela.
(6)Institut de Cièncias de la Terra Jaume Almera, CSIC, Barcelona 08028, Spain.
(7)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089-0740, USA.

Whereas subduction recycling of oceanic lithosphere is one of the central themes 
of plate tectonics, the recycling of continental lithosphere appears to be far
more complicated and less well understood. Delamination and convective
downwelling are two widely recognized processes invoked to explain the removal of
lithospheric mantle under or adjacent to orogenic belts. Here we relate oceanic
plate subduction to removal of adjacent continental lithosphere in certain plate 
tectonic settings. We have developed teleseismic body wave images from dense
broadband seismic experiments that show higher than expected volumes of
anomalously fast mantle associated with the subducted Atlantic slab under
northeastern South America and the Alboran slab beneath the Gibraltar arc region;
the anomalies are under, and are aligned with, the continental margins at depths 
greater than 200 kilometres. Rayleigh wave analysis finds that the lithospheric
mantle under the continental margins is significantly thinner than expected, and 
that thin lithosphere extends from the orogens adjacent to the subduction zones
inland to the edges of nearby cratonic cores. Taking these data together, here we
describe a process that can lead to the loss of continental lithosphere adjacent 
to a subduction zone. Subducting oceanic plates can viscously entrain and remove 
the bottom of the continental thermal boundary layer lithosphere from adjacent
continental margins. This drives surface tectonics and pre-conditions the margins
for further deformation by creating topography along the
lithosphere-asthenosphere boundary. This can lead to development of secondary
downwellings under the continental interior, probably under both South America
and the Gibraltar arc, and to delamination of the entire lithospheric mantle, as 
around the Gibraltar arc. This process reconciles numerous, sometimes mutually
exclusive, geodynamic models proposed to explain the complex oceanic-continental 
tectonics of these subduction zones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13878 
PMID: 25391963 


187. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):245-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13894.

Interfacial mode coupling as the origin of the enhancement of T(c) in FeSe films 
on SrTiO3.

Lee JJ(1), Schmitt FT(2), Moore RG(2), Johnston S(3), Cui YT(2), Li W(2), Yi
M(1), Liu ZK(1), Hashimoto M(4), Zhang Y(5), Lu DH(4), Devereaux TP(2), Lee
DH(6), Shen ZX(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA [2] Departments of
Physics and Applied Physics, and Geballe Laboratory for Advanced Materials,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(3)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z1, Canada [2] Quantum Matter Institute,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada [3]
Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tennessee 37996-1200, USA.
(4)Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, SLAC National Accelerator
Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(5)1] Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA [2] Advanced Light
Source, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(6)1] Department of Physics, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Material Science Division, Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):205-6.

Films of iron selenide (FeSe) one unit cell thick grown on strontium titanate
(SrTiO3 or STO) substrates have recently shown superconducting energy gaps
opening at temperatures close to the boiling point of liquid nitrogen
(77 kelvin), which is a record for the iron-based superconductors. The gap
opening temperature usually sets the superconducting transition temperature Tc,
as the gap signals the formation of Cooper pairs, the bound electron states
responsible for superconductivity. To understand why Cooper pairs form at such
high temperatures, we examine the role of the SrTiO3 substrate. Here we report
high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy results that reveal an 
unexpected characteristic of the single-unit-cell FeSe/SrTiO3 system: shake-off
bands suggesting the presence of bosonic modes, most probably oxygen optical
phonons in SrTiO3 (refs 5, 6, 7), which couple to the FeSe electrons with only a 
small momentum transfer. Such interfacial coupling assists superconductivity in
most channels, including those mediated by spin fluctuations. Our calculations
suggest that this coupling is responsible for raising the superconducting gap
opening temperature in single-unit-cell FeSe/SrTiO3.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13894 
PMID: 25391962 


188. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13891.

Observation of topological transitions in interacting quantum circuits.

Roushan P(1), Neill C(1), Chen Y(1), Kolodrubetz M(2), Quintana C(1), Leung N(1),
Fang M(1), Barends R(1), Campbell B(1), Chen Z(1), Chiaro B(1), Dunsworth A(1),
Jeffrey E(1), Kelly J(1), Megrant A(1), Mutus J(1), O'Malley PJ(1), Sank D(1),
Vainsencher A(1), Wenner J(1), White T(1), Polkovnikov A(2), Cleland AN(1),
Martinis JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106-9530, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(3)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 
93106-9530, USA [2] Google Inc., Santa Barbara, California 93117, USA.

Topology, with its abstract mathematical constructs, often manifests itself in
physics and has a pivotal role in our understanding of natural phenomena.
Notably, the discovery of topological phases in condensed-matter systems has
changed the modern conception of phases of matter. The global nature of
topological ordering, however, makes direct experimental probing an outstanding
challenge. Present experimental tools are mainly indirect and, as a result, are
inadequate for studying the topology of physical systems at a fundamental level. 
Here we employ the exquisite control afforded by state-of-the-art superconducting
quantum circuits to investigate topological properties of various quantum
systems. The essence of our approach is to infer geometric curvature by measuring
the deflection of quantum trajectories in the curved space of the Hamiltonian.
Topological properties are then revealed by integrating the curvature over closed
surfaces, a quantum analogue of the Gauss-Bonnet theorem. We benchmark our
technique by investigating basic topological concepts of the historically
important Haldane model after mapping the momentum space of this condensed-matter
model to the parameter space of a single-qubit Hamiltonian. In addition to
constructing the topological phase diagram, we are able to visualize the
microscopic spin texture of the associated states and their evolution across a
topological phase transition. Going beyond non-interacting systems, we
demonstrate the power of our method by studying topology in an interacting
quantum system. This required a new qubit architecture that allows for
simultaneous control over every term in a two-qubit Hamiltonian. By exploring the
parameter space of this Hamiltonian, we discover the emergence of an
interaction-induced topological phase. Our work establishes a powerful,
generalizable experimental platform to study topological phenomena in quantum
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13891 
PMID: 25391961 


189. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):237-40. doi: 10.1038/nature13915.

Experimental realization of the topological Haldane model with ultracold
fermions.

Jotzu G(1), Messer M(1), Desbuquois R(1), Lebrat M(1), Uehlinger T(1), Greif
D(1), Esslinger T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Quantum Electronics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

The Haldane model on a honeycomb lattice is a paradigmatic example of a
Hamiltonian featuring topologically distinct phases of matter. It describes a
mechanism through which a quantum Hall effect can appear as an intrinsic property
of a band structure, rather than being caused by an external magnetic field.
Although physical implementation has been considered unlikely, the Haldane model 
has provided the conceptual basis for theoretical and experimental research
exploring topological insulators and superconductors. Here we report the
experimental realization of the Haldane model and the characterization of its
topological band structure, using ultracold fermionic atoms in a periodically
modulated optical honeycomb lattice. The Haldane model is based on breaking both 
time-reversal symmetry and inversion symmetry. To break time-reversal symmetry,
we introduce complex next-nearest-neighbour tunnelling terms, which we induce
through circular modulation of the lattice position. To break inversion symmetry,
we create an energy offset between neighbouring sites. Breaking either of these
symmetries opens a gap in the band structure, which we probe using
momentum-resolved interband transitions. We explore the resulting Berry
curvatures, which characterize the topology of the lowest band, by applying a
constant force to the atoms and find orthogonal drifts analogous to a Hall
current. The competition between the two broken symmetries gives rise to a
transition between topologically distinct regimes. By identifying the vanishing
gap at a single Dirac point, we map out this transition line experimentally and
quantitatively compare it to calculations using Floquet theory without free
parameters. We verify that our approach, which allows us to tune the topological 
properties dynamically, is suitable even for interacting fermionic systems.
Furthermore, we propose a direct extension to realize spin-dependent topological 
Hamiltonians.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13915 
PMID: 25391960 


190. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):222-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13964.

Evolution of mosquito preference for humans linked to an odorant receptor.

McBride CS(1), Baier F(2), Omondi AB(3), Spitzer SA(2), Lutomiah J(4), Sang R(4),
Ignell R(3), Vosshall LB(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 1230 York Avenue, 
New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)Unit of Chemical Ecology, Department of Plant Protection Biology, Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences, Box 102, Sundsvägen 14, 230 53 Alnarp,
Sweden.
(4)Center for Virus Research, Kenya Medical Research Institute, PO Box 54840 -
00200, Off Mbagathi Way, Nairobi, Kenya.

Female mosquitoes are major vectors of human disease and the most dangerous are
those that preferentially bite humans. A 'domestic' form of the mosquito Aedes
aegypti has evolved to specialize in biting humans and is the main worldwide
vector of dengue, yellow fever, and chikungunya viruses. The domestic form
coexists with an ancestral, 'forest' form that prefers to bite non-human animals 
and is found along the coast of Kenya. We collected the two forms, established
laboratory colonies, and document striking divergence in preference for human
versus non-human animal odour. We further show that the evolution of preference
for human odour in domestic mosquitoes is tightly linked to increases in the
expression and ligand-sensitivity of the odorant receptor AaegOr4, which we found
recognizes a compound present at high levels in human odour. Our results provide 
a rare example of a gene contributing to behavioural evolution and provide
insight into how disease-vectoring mosquitoes came to specialize on humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13964 
PMCID: PMC4286346
PMID: 25391959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature13897. Epub 2014 Nov 5.

The participation of cortical amygdala in innate, odour-driven behaviour.

Root CM(1), Denny CA(2), Hen R(3), Axel R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(2)1] Department of Biological Sciences, New York State Psychiatric Institute,
New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of Neuroscience and Psychiatry, New 
York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York 10032, USA [3] Division of
Integrative Neuroscience, New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, New
York 10032, USA.
(3)1] Department of Neuroscience and Psychiatry, New York State Psychiatric
Institute, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Division of Integrative
Neuroscience, New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York 10032, USA
[3] Department of Pharmacology, Columbia University, New York State Psychiatric
Institute, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Innate behaviours are observed in naive animals without prior learning or
experience, suggesting that the neural circuits that mediate these behaviours are
genetically determined and stereotyped. The neural circuits that convey olfactory
information from the sense organ to the cortical and subcortical olfactory
centres have been anatomically defined, but the specific pathways responsible for
innate responses to volatile odours have not been identified. Here we devise
genetic strategies that demonstrate that a stereotyped neural circuit that
transmits information from the olfactory bulb to cortical amygdala is necessary
for innate aversive and appetitive behaviours. Moreover, we use the promoter of
the activity-dependent gene arc to express the photosensitive ion channel,
channelrhodopsin, in neurons of the cortical amygdala activated by odours that
elicit innate behaviours. Optical activation of these neurons leads to
appropriate behaviours that recapitulate the responses to innate odours. These
data indicate that the cortical amygdala plays a critical role in generating
innate odour-driven behaviours but do not preclude its participation in learned
olfactory behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13897 
PMCID: PMC4231015
PMID: 25383519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):249-52. doi: 10.1038/nature13867. Epub 2014 Nov 2.

Formic-acid-induced depolymerization of oxidized lignin to aromatics.

Rahimi A(1), Ulbrich A(1), Coon JJ(2), Stahl SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1101 University
Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(2)1] Department of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1101 University
Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA [2] Department of Biomolecular Chemistry,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Chem. 2014 Dec;6(12):1035-6.

Lignin is a heterogeneous aromatic biopolymer that accounts for nearly 30% of the
organic carbon on Earth and is one of the few renewable sources of aromatic
chemicals. As the most recalcitrant of the three components of lignocellulosic
biomass (cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin), lignin has been treated as a waste
product in the pulp and paper industry, where it is burned to supply energy and
recover pulping chemicals in the operation of paper mills. Extraction of higher
value from lignin is increasingly recognized as being crucial to the economic
viability of integrated biorefineries. Depolymerization is an important starting 
point for many lignin valorization strategies, because it could generate valuable
aromatic chemicals and/or provide a source of low-molecular-mass feedstocks
suitable for downstream processing. Commercial precedents show that certain types
of lignin (lignosulphonates) may be converted into vanillin and other marketable 
products, but new technologies are needed to enhance the lignin value chain. The 
complex, irregular structure of lignin complicates chemical conversion efforts,
and known depolymerization methods typically afford ill-defined products in low
yields (that is, less than 10-20wt%). Here we describe a method for the
depolymerization of oxidized lignin under mild conditions in aqueous formic acid 
that results in more than 60wt% yield of low-molecular-mass aromatics. We present
the discovery of this facile C-O cleavage method, its application to aspen lignin
depolymerization, and mechanistic insights into the reaction. The broader
implications of these results for lignin conversion and biomass refining are also
considered.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13867 
PMID: 25363781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):234-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13834. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

The expanding fireball of Nova Delphini 2013.

Schaefer GH(1), ten Brummelaar T(1), Gies DR(2), Farrington CD(1), Kloppenborg
B(2), Chesneau O(3), Monnier JD(4), Ridgway ST(5), Scott N(1), Tallon-Bosc I(6), 
McAlister HA(2), Boyajian T(7), Maestro V(8), Mourard D(3), Meilland A(3),
Nardetto N(3), Stee P(3), Sturmann J(1), Vargas N(1), Baron F(2), Ireland M(9),
Baines EK(10), Che X(4), Jones J(2), Richardson ND(11), Roettenbacher RM(4),
Sturmann L(1), Turner NH(1), Tuthill P(8), van Belle G(12), von Braun K(13),
Zavala RT(14), Banerjee DP(15), Ashok NM(15), Joshi V(15), Becker J(16), Muirhead
PS(17).

Author information: 
(1)The CHARA Array of Georgia State University, Mount Wilson Observatory, Mount
Wilson, California 91023, USA.
(2)Center for High Angular Resolution Astronomy and Department of Physics and
Astronomy, Georgia State University, PO Box 5060, Atlanta, Georgia 30302, USA.
(3)Laboratoire Lagrange, UMR 7293, Université de Sophia-Antipolis (UNS)-Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS)-Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur
(OCA), Boulevard de l'Observatoire, CS 34229, F-06304 Nice, Cedex 4, France.
(4)Department of Astronomy, University of Michigan, 941 Dennison Building, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(5)National Optical Astronomy Observatory, 950 North Cherry Avenue, Tucson,
Arizona 85719, USA.
(6)Université de Lyon; Université Lyon 1, Observatoire de Lyon, 9 avenue Charles 
André, 69230 Saint Genis Laval; CNRS UMR 5574, Centre de Recherche Astrophysique 
de Lyon; École Normale Supérieure, 69007 Lyon, France.
(7)Department of Astronomy, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(8)Sydney Institute for Astronomy, School of Physics, University of Sydney, New
South Wales 2006, Sydney, Australia.
(9)Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Australian National University,
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 2611, Australia.
(10)Remote Sensing Division, Naval Research Laboratory, 4555 Overlook Avenue
Southwest, Washington, DC 20375, USA.
(11)Département de Physique and Centre de Recherche en Astrophysique du Québec
(CRAQ), Université de Montréal, CP 6128, Succursale Centre-Ville, Montréal,
Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.
(12)Lowell Observatory, 1400 West Mars Hill Road, Flagstaff, Arizona 86001, USA.
(13)Max Planck Institute for Astronomy (MPIA), Konigstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(14)United States Naval Observatory, Flagstaff Station, 10391 West Naval
Observatory Road, Flagstaff, Arizona 86001, USA.
(15)Astronomy and Astrophysics Division, Physical Research Laboratory,
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 380009, India.
(16)1] Department of Astronomy, University of Michigan, 941 Dennison Building,
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2] Cahill Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics, 
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91106, USA.
(17)Department of Astronomy, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

A classical nova occurs when material accreting onto the surface of a white dwarf
in a close binary system ignites in a thermonuclear runaway. Complex structures
observed in the ejecta at late stages could result from interactions with the
companion during the common-envelope phase. Alternatively, the explosion could be
intrinsically bipolar, resulting from a localized ignition on the surface of the 
white dwarf or as a consequence of rotational distortion. Studying the structure 
of novae during the earliest phases is challenging because of the high spatial
resolution needed to measure their small sizes. Here we report near-infrared
interferometric measurements of the angular size of Nova Delphini 2013, starting 
one day after the explosion and continuing with extensive time coverage during
the first 43 days. Changes in the apparent expansion rate can be explained by an 
explosion model consisting of an optically thick core surrounded by a diffuse
envelope. The optical depth of the ejected material changes as it expands. We
detect an ellipticity in the light distribution, suggesting a prolate or bipolar 
structure that develops as early as the second day. Combining the angular
expansion rate with radial velocity measurements, we derive a geometric distance 
to the nova of 4.54 ± 0.59 kiloparsecs from the Sun.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13834 
PMID: 25363778 


194. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):216-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13908. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

The contribution of de novo coding mutations to autism spectrum disorder.

Iossifov I(1), O'Roak BJ(2), Sanders SJ(3), Ronemus M(1), Krumm N(4), Levy D(1), 
Stessman HA(4), Witherspoon KT(4), Vives L(4), Patterson KE(4), Smith JD(4),
Paeper B(4), Nickerson DA(4), Dea J(5), Dong S(6), Gonzalez LE(7), Mandell JD(5),
Mane SM(8), Murtha MT(7), Sullivan CA(7), Walker MF(5), Waqar Z(7), Wei L(9),
Willsey AJ(3), Yamrom B(1), Lee YH(1), Grabowska E(10), Dalkic E(11), Wang Z(1), 
Marks S(1), Andrews P(1), Leotta A(1), Kendall J(1), Hakker I(1), Rosenbaum J(1),
Ma B(1), Rodgers L(1), Troge J(1), Narzisi G(10), Yoon S(1), Schatz MC(1), Ye
K(12), McCombie WR(1), Shendure J(4), Eichler EE(13), State MW(14), Wigler M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(2)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [2] Molecular &Medical Genetics, Oregon Health
&Science University, Portland, Oregon 97208, USA.
(3)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(6)1] Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of
Protein and Plant Gene Research, School of Life Sciences, Peking University,
Beijing 100871, China.
(7)Child Study Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut
06520, USA.
(8)Yale Center for Genomic Analysis, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(9)1] Center for Bioinformatics, State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene
Research, School of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2]
National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China.
(10)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA [2]
New York Genome Center, New York, New York 10013, USA.
(11)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA [2]
Department of Medical Biology, Bulent Ecevit University School of Medicine, 67600
Zonguldak, Turkey.
(12)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.
(13)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(14)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [3] Child Study Center,
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [4]
Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Genet. 2015 May;87(5):428-9.
    J Genet. 2016 Sep;95(3):481-3.

Whole exome sequencing has proven to be a powerful tool for understanding the
genetic architecture of human disease. Here we apply it to more than 2,500
simplex families, each having a child with an autistic spectrum disorder. By
comparing affected to unaffected siblings, we show that 13% of de novo missense
mutations and 43% of de novo likely gene-disrupting (LGD) mutations contribute to
12% and 9% of diagnoses, respectively. Including copy number variants, coding de 
novo mutations contribute to about 30% of all simplex and 45% of female
diagnoses. Almost all LGD mutations occur opposite wild-type alleles. LGD targets
in affected females significantly overlap the targets in males of lower
intelligence quotient (IQ), but neither overlaps significantly with targets in
males of higher IQ. We estimate that LGD mutation in about 400 genes can
contribute to the joint class of affected females and males of lower IQ, with an 
overlapping and similar number of genes vulnerable to contributory missense
mutation. LGD targets in the joint class overlap with published targets for
intellectual disability and schizophrenia, and are enriched for chromatin
modifiers, FMRP-associated genes and embryonically expressed genes. Most of the
significance for the latter comes from affected females.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13908 
PMCID: PMC4313871
PMID: 25363768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):209-15. doi: 10.1038/nature13772. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Synaptic, transcriptional and chromatin genes disrupted in autism.

De Rubeis S, He X, Goldberg AP, Poultney CS, Samocha K, Cicek AE, Kou Y, Liu L,
Fromer M, Walker S, Singh T, Klei L, Kosmicki J, Shih-Chen F, Aleksic B, Biscaldi
M, Bolton PF, Brownfeld JM, Cai J, Campbell NG, Carracedo A, Chahrour MH,
Chiocchetti AG, Coon H, Crawford EL, Curran SR, Dawson G, Duketis E, Fernandez
BA, Gallagher L, Geller E, Guter SJ, Hill RS, Ionita-Laza J, Jimenz Gonzalez P,
Kilpinen H, Klauck SM, Kolevzon A, Lee I, Lei I, Lei J, Lehtimäki T, Lin CF,
Ma'ayan A, Marshall CR, McInnes AL, Neale B, Owen MJ, Ozaki N, Parellada M, Parr 
JR, Purcell S, Puura K, Rajagopalan D, Rehnström K, Reichenberg A, Sabo A, Sachse
M, Sanders SJ, Schafer C, Schulte-Rüther M, Skuse D, Stevens C, Szatmari P,
Tammimies K, Valladares O, Voran A, Li-San W, Weiss LA, Willsey AJ, Yu TW, Yuen
RK; DDD Study; Homozygosity Mapping Collaborative for Autism; UK10K Consortium,
Cook EH, Freitag CM, Gill M, Hultman CM, Lehner T, Palotie A, Schellenberg GD,
Sklar P, State MW, Sutcliffe JS, Walsh CA, Scherer SW, Zwick ME, Barett JC,
Cutler DJ, Roeder K, Devlin B, Daly MJ, Buxbaum JD.

Collaborators: Akawi N, Al-Turki S, Ambridge K, Barrett J, Barrett D, Bayzetinova
T, Carter N, Clayton S, Coomber E, Firth H, Fitzgerald T, Fitzpatrick D, Gererty 
S, Gribble S, Hurles M, Jones P, Jones W, King D, Krishnappa N, Mason L, McRae J,
Michael P, Middleton A, Miller R, Morley K, Parthiban V, Prigmore E, Rajan D,
Sifrim A, Tivery A, van Kogelenberg M, Wright C, Adli M, Al-Awadi S, Al-Gazali L,
Allub Z, Al-Saad S, Al-Saffar M, Ataman B, Balkhy S, Barkovich AJ, Barry BJ,
Bastaki L, Bauman M, Ben-Omran T, Braverman NE, Chahrour MH, Chang BS, Chaudhry
HR, Coulter M, D'Gama Am, Daoud A, Eapen V, Felie JM, Gabriel SB, Gascon GG,
Greenberg ME, Hanson E, Harmin DA, Hashmi A, Herguner S, Hill RS, Hisama FM,
Jiralerspong S, Joseph RM, Khalil S, Khuri-Bulos N, Kwaja O, Kwan BY, LeClair E, 
Lim ET, Markianos K, Martin M, Masri A, Meyer B, Mochida GH, Morrow EM, Mukaddes 
NM, Nasir RH, Niaz S, Okarmura-Ikeda K, Oner O, Parlow JN, Poduri A, Rajab A,
Rappaport L, Rodriguez J, Schmitz-Abe K, Shen Y, Stevens CR, Stoler JM, Sunu CM, 
Tan WH, Taniguchi H, Teebi A, Walsh CA, Ware J, Wu BL, Yoo SY, Yu T, Anney R,
Ayub M, Bailey A, Baird G, Barrett J, Blackwood D, Bolton P, Breen G, Collier D, 
Cormican P, Craddock N, Crooks L, Curran S, Danecek P, Durbin R, Gallagher L,
Green J, Gurling H, Holt R, Joyce C, LeCouteur A, Lee I, Lönnqvist J, McCarthy S,
McGuffin P, McIntosh A, McQuillen A, Merkangas A, Monaco A, Muddyman D, O'Donovan
M, Owen M, Palotie A, Parr J, Paunio T, Pietilainen O, Rehnström K, Skuse D,
Stalker J, St Clair D, Suvisaari J, Williams H.

The genetic architecture of autism spectrum disorder involves the interplay of
common and rare variants and their impact on hundreds of genes. Using exome
sequencing, here we show that analysis of rare coding variation in 3,871 autism
cases and 9,937 ancestry-matched or parental controls implicates 22 autosomal
genes at a false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05, plus a set of 107 autosomal genes
strongly enriched for those likely to affect risk (FDR < 0.30). These 107 genes, 
which show unusual evolutionary constraint against mutations, incur de novo
loss-of-function mutations in over 5% of autistic subjects. Many of the genes
implicated encode proteins for synaptic formation, transcriptional regulation and
chromatin-remodelling pathways. These include voltage-gated ion channels
regulating the propagation of action potentials, pacemaking and
excitability-transcription coupling, as well as histone-modifying enzymes and
chromatin remodellers-most prominently those that mediate post-translational
lysine methylation/demethylation modifications of histones.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13772 
PMCID: PMC4402723
PMID: 25363760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):257-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13874. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Resolving the long-standing enigmas of a giant ornithomimosaur Deinocheirus
mirificus.

Lee YN(1), Barsbold R(2), Currie PJ(3), Kobayashi Y(4), Lee HJ(1), Godefroit
P(5), Escuillié F(6), Chinzorig T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Geological Museum, Korea Institute of Geoscience and Mineral Resources,
Daejeon 305-350, South Korea.
(2)Paleontological Center, Mongolian Academy of Sciences, Ulaanbaatar 210-351,
Mongolia.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta
T6G 2E9, Canada.
(4)Hokkaido University Museum, Hokkaido University, Sapporo 060-0810, Japan.
(5)Earth and History of Life, Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, Rue
Vautier 29, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium.
(6)Eldonia, 9 Avenue des Portes Occitanes, 3800 Gannat, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):203-5.

The holotype of Deinocheirus mirificus was collected by the 1965 Polish-Mongolian
Palaeontological Expedition at Altan Uul III in the southern Gobi of Mongolia.
Because the holotype consists mostly of giant forelimbs (2.4 m in length) with
scapulocoracoids, for almost 50 years Deinocheirus has remained one of the most
mysterious dinosaurs. The mosaic of ornithomimosaur and non-ornithomimosaur
characters in the holotype has made it difficult to resolve the phylogenetic
status of Deinocheirus. Here we describe two new specimens of Deinocheirus that
were discovered in the Nemegt Formation of Altan Uul IV in 2006 and Bugiin Tsav
in 2009. The Bugiin Tsav specimen (MPC-D 100/127) includes a left forelimb
clearly identifiable as Deinocheirus and is 6% longer than the holotype. The
Altan Uul IV specimen (MPC-D 100/128) is approximately 74% the size of MPC-D
100/127. Cladistic analysis indicates that Deinocheirus is the largest member of 
the Ornithomimosauria; however, it has many unique skeletal features unknown in
other ornithomimosaurs, indicating that Deinocheirus was a heavily built,
non-cursorial animal with an elongate snout, a deep jaw, tall neural spines, a
pygostyle, a U-shaped furcula, an expanded pelvis for strong muscle attachments, 
a relatively short hind limb and broad-tipped pedal unguals. Ecomorphological
features in the skull, more than a thousand gastroliths, and stomach contents
(fish remains) suggest that Deinocheirus was a megaomnivore that lived in mesic
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13874 
PMID: 25337880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):274-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13800. Epub 2014 Oct 12.

A three-dimensional human neural cell culture model of Alzheimer's disease.

Choi SH(1), Kim YH(2), Hebisch M(3), Sliwinski C(4), Lee S(5), D'Avanzo C(4),
Chen H(4), Hooli B(4), Asselin C(4), Muffat J(6), Klee JB(4), Zhang C(4), Wainger
BJ(5), Peitz M(7), Kovacs DM(4), Woolf CJ(5), Wagner SL(8), Tanzi RE(4), Kim
DY(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Genetics and Aging Research Unit, MassGeneral Institute for
Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA [2].
(2)1] Genetics and Aging Research Unit, MassGeneral Institute for
Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA [2] Division of Mass Spectrometry
Research, Korea Basic Science Institute, Cheongju-si, Chungbuk 363-883, South
Korea [3].
(3)1] Genetics and Aging Research Unit, MassGeneral Institute for
Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA [2] Institute of Reconstructive
Neurobiology, Life and Brain Center, University of Bonn and Hertie Foundation,
53127 Bonn, Germany.
(4)Genetics and Aging Research Unit, MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative 
Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown,
Massachusetts 02129, USA.
(5)FM Kirby Neurobiology Center, Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Stem Cell
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(6)The Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.
(7)Institute of Reconstructive Neurobiology, Life and Brain Center, University of
Bonn and Hertie Foundation, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Dec;15(12):765.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Dec;13(12):887.

Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, characterized by two
pathological hallmarks: amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The
amyloid hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease posits that the excessive accumulation 
of amyloid-β peptide leads to neurofibrillary tangles composed of aggregated
hyperphosphorylated tau. However, to date, no single disease model has serially
linked these two pathological events using human neuronal cells. Mouse models
with familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mutations exhibit amyloid-β-induced
synaptic and memory deficits but they do not fully recapitulate other key
pathological events of Alzheimer's disease, including distinct neurofibrillary
tangle pathology. Human neurons derived from Alzheimer's disease patients have
shown elevated levels of toxic amyloid-β species and phosphorylated tau but did
not demonstrate amyloid-β plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. Here we report that
FAD mutations in β-amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 are able to induce 
robust extracellular deposition of amyloid-β, including amyloid-β plaques, in a
human neural stem-cell-derived three-dimensional (3D) culture system. More
importantly, the 3D-differentiated neuronal cells expressing FAD mutations
exhibited high levels of detergent-resistant, silver-positive aggregates of
phosphorylated tau in the soma and neurites, as well as filamentous tau, as
detected by immunoelectron microscopy. Inhibition of amyloid-β generation with β-
or γ-secretase inhibitors not only decreased amyloid-β pathology, but also
attenuated tauopathy. We also found that glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3)
regulated amyloid-β-mediated tau phosphorylation. We have successfully
recapitulated amyloid-β and tau pathology in a single 3D human neural cell
culture system. Our unique strategy for recapitulating Alzheimer's disease
pathology in a 3D neural cell culture model should also serve to facilitate the
development of more precise human neural cell models of other neurodegenerative
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13800 
PMCID: PMC4366007
PMID: 25307057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):228-33. doi: 10.1038/nature13846. Epub 2014 Oct 8.

Clathrin regenerates synaptic vesicles from endosomes.

Watanabe S(1), Trimbuch T(2), Camacho-Pérez M(2), Rost BR(3), Brokowski B(2),
Söhl-Kielczynski B(2), Felies A(2), Davis MW(1), Rosenmund C(2), Jorgensen EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah 84112-0840, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Research Center Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin 10117,
Germany.
(3)1] Neuroscience Research Center Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin
10117, Germany [2] German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), 10117
Berlin, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):207-8.

Ultrafast endocytosis can retrieve a single, large endocytic vesicle as fast as
50-100 ms after synaptic vesicle fusion. However, the fate of the large endocytic
vesicles is not known. Here we demonstrate that these vesicles transition to a
synaptic endosome about one second after stimulation. The endosome is resolved
into coated vesicles after 3 s, which in turn become small-diameter synaptic
vesicles 5-6 s after stimulation. We disrupted clathrin function using RNA
interference (RNAi) and found that clathrin is not required for ultrafast
endocytosis but is required to generate synaptic vesicles from the endosome.
Ultrafast endocytosis fails when actin polymerization is disrupted, or when
neurons are stimulated at room temperature instead of physiological temperature. 
In the absence of ultrafast endocytosis, synaptic vesicles are retrieved directly
from the plasma membrane by clathrin-mediated endocytosis. These results may
explain discrepancies among published experiments concerning the role of clathrin
in synaptic vesicle endocytosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13846 
PMCID: PMC4291189
PMID: 25296249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):283-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13895. Epub 2014 Sep 1.

The complete structure of the large subunit of the mammalian mitochondrial
ribosome.

Greber BJ(1), Boehringer D(1), Leibundgut M(1), Bieri P(1), Leitner A(2), Schmitz
N(1), Aebersold R(3), Ban N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics,
Otto-Stern-Weg 5, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology,
Auguste-Piccard-Hof 1, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)1] Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology,
Auguste-Piccard-Hof 1, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2] Faculty of
Science, University of Zurich, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) are extensively modified ribosomes of
bacterial descent specialized for the synthesis and insertion of membrane
proteins that are critical for energy conversion and ATP production inside
mitochondria. Mammalian mitoribosomes, which comprise 39S and 28S subunits, have 
diverged markedly from the bacterial ribosomes from which they are derived,
rendering them unique compared to bacterial, eukaryotic cytosolic and fungal
mitochondrial ribosomes. We have previously determined at 4.9 Å resolution the
architecture of the porcine (Sus scrofa) 39S subunit, which is highly homologous 
to the human mitoribosomal large subunit. Here we present the complete atomic
structure of the porcine 39S large mitoribosomal subunit determined in the
context of a stalled translating mitoribosome at 3.4 Å resolution by
cryo-electron microscopy and chemical crosslinking/mass spectrometry. The
structure reveals the locations and the detailed folds of 50 mitoribosomal
proteins, shows the highly conserved mitoribosomal peptidyl transferase active
site in complex with its substrate transfer RNAs, and defines the path of the
nascent chain in mammalian mitoribosomes along their idiosyncratic exit tunnel.
Furthermore, we present evidence that a mitochondrial tRNA has become an integral
component of the central protuberance of the 39S subunit where it architecturally
substitutes for the absence of the 5S ribosomal RNA, a ubiquitous component of
all cytoplasmic ribosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13895 
PMID: 25271403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):287-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13693. Epub 2014 Sep 7.

Structural basis for the assembly of the Sxl-Unr translation regulatory complex.

Hennig J(1), Militti C(2), Popowicz GM(1), Wang I(1), Sonntag M(1), Geerlof A(3),
Gabel F(4), Gebauer F(2), Sattler M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Structural Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, Ingolstädter
Landstrasse 1, DE-85764, Germany [2] Center for Integrated Protein Science Munich
at Biomolecular NMR Spectroscopy, Department Chemie, Technische Universität
München, Lichtenbergstr. 4, DE-85747 Garching, Germany.
(2)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation, Gene Regulation, Stem Cells and Cancer
Programme, Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universisty Pompeu Fabra,
Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Institute of Structural Biology, Helmholtz Zentrum München, Ingolstädter
Landstrasse 1, DE-85764, Germany.
(4)1] Université Grenoble Alpes, Institut de Biologie Structurale, F-38044
Grenoble, France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Institut de
Biologie Structurale, F-38044 Grenoble, France [3] Commissariat à l'Energie
Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, Institut de Biologie Structurale, F-38044 
Grenoble, France [4] Institut Laue-Langevin, F-38042 Grenoble, France.

Genetic equality between males and females is established by chromosome-wide
dosage-compensation mechanisms. In the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster, the
dosage-compensation complex promotes twofold hypertranscription of the single
male X-chromosome and is silenced in females by inhibition of the translation of 
msl2, which codes for the limiting component of the dosage-compensation complex. 
The female-specific protein Sex-lethal (Sxl) recruits Upstream-of-N-ras (Unr) to 
the 3' untranslated region of msl2 messenger RNA, preventing the engagement of
the small ribosomal subunit. Here we report the 2.8 Å crystal structure, NMR and 
small-angle X-ray and neutron scattering data of the ternary Sxl-Unr-msl2
ribonucleoprotein complex featuring unprecedented intertwined interactions of two
Sxl RNA recognition motifs, a Unr cold-shock domain and RNA. Cooperative complex 
formation is associated with a 1,000-fold increase of RNA binding affinity for
the Unr cold-shock domain and involves novel ternary interactions, as well as
non-canonical RNA contacts by the α1 helix of Sxl RNA recognition motif 1. Our
results suggest that repression of dosage compensation, necessary for female
viability, is triggered by specific, cooperative molecular interactions that lock
a ribonucleoprotein switch to regulate translation. The structure serves as a
paradigm for how a combination of general and widespread RNA binding domains
expands the code for specific single-stranded RNA recognition in the regulation
of gene expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13693 
PMID: 25209665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):261-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13685. Epub 2014 Aug 20.

Comparative population genomics in animals uncovers the determinants of genetic
diversity.

Romiguier J(1), Gayral P(2), Ballenghien M(3), Bernard A(3), Cahais V(3), Chenuil
A(4), Chiari Y(5), Dernat R(3), Duret L(6), Faivre N(3), Loire E(3), Lourenco
JM(3), Nabholz B(3), Roux C(1), Tsagkogeorga G(7), Weber AA(4), Weinert LA(8),
Belkhir K(3), Bierne N(3), Glémin S(3), Galtier N(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] UMR 5554, Institute of Evolutionary Sciences, University Montpellier 2,
Centre national de la recherche scientifique, Place E. Bataillon, 34095
Montpellier, France [2] Department of Ecology and Evolution, Biophore, University
of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)1] UMR 5554, Institute of Evolutionary Sciences, University Montpellier 2,
Centre national de la recherche scientifique, Place E. Bataillon, 34095
Montpellier, France [2] UMR 7261, Institut de Recherches sur la Biologie de
l'Insecte, Centre national de la recherche scientifique, Université
François-Rabelais, 37200 Tours, France.
(3)UMR 5554, Institute of Evolutionary Sciences, University Montpellier 2, Centre
national de la recherche scientifique, Place E. Bataillon, 34095 Montpellier,
France.
(4)Aix-Marseille Université, Institut Méditerranéen de Biodiversité et d'Écologie
marine et continentale (IMBE) - CNRS - IRD - UAPV, 13007 Marseille, France.
(5)Department of Biology, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama
36688-0002, USA.
(6)UMR 5558, Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, Université Lyon 1,
CNRS, 69622 Lyon, France.
(7)1] UMR 5554, Institute of Evolutionary Sciences, University Montpellier 2,
Centre national de la recherche scientifique, Place E. Bataillon, 34095
Montpellier, France [2] The School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen
Mary University of London, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS, UK.
(8)1] UMR 5554, Institute of Evolutionary Sciences, University Montpellier 2,
Centre national de la recherche scientifique, Place E. Bataillon, 34095
Montpellier, France [2] Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0ES, UK.

Genetic diversity is the amount of variation observed between DNA sequences from 
distinct individuals of a given species. This pivotal concept of population
genetics has implications for species health, domestication, management and
conservation. Levels of genetic diversity seem to vary greatly in natural
populations and species, but the determinants of this variation, and particularly
the relative influences of species biology and ecology versus population history,
are still largely mysterious. Here we show that the diversity of a species is
predictable, and is determined in the first place by its ecological strategy. We 
investigated the genome-wide diversity of 76 non-model animal species by
sequencing the transcriptome of two to ten individuals in each species. The
distribution of genetic diversity between species revealed no detectable
influence of geographic range or invasive status but was accurately predicted by 
key species traits related to parental investment: long-lived or low-fecundity
species with brooding ability were genetically less diverse than short-lived or
highly fecund ones. Our analysis demonstrates the influence of long-term
life-history strategies on species response to short-term environmental
perturbations, a result with immediate implications for conservation policies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13685 
PMID: 25141177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):279-282. doi: 10.1038/nature13701. Epub 2014 Aug
10.

Piezo1 integration of vascular architecture with physiological force.

Li J(#)(1), Hou B(#)(1), Tumova S(1), Muraki K(2), Bruns A(1), Ludlow MJ(1), Sedo
A(1), Hyman AJ(1), McKeown L(1), Young RS(1)(3), Yuldasheva NY(1), Majeed Y(1),
Wilson LA(1), Rode B(1), Bailey MA(1), Kim HR(4), Fu Z(1), Carter DA(1), Bilton
J(1), Imrie H(1), Ajuh P(5), Dear TN(1), Cubbon RM(1), Kearney MT(1), Prasad
RK(3), Evans PC(4), Ainscough JF(1), Beech DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine and Multidisciplinary Cardiovascular Research Centre,
University of Leeds, Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Aichi-Gakuin University, 1-100 Kusumoto, Chikusa, Nagoya
464-8650, Japan.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary and Transplant Surgery, St. James's University
Hospital, Leeds, UK.
(4)Cardiovascular Science, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, S10 2RX, UK.
(5)Dundee Cell Products Ltd, James Lindsay Place, Dundee, DD1 5JJ, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Channels (Austin). 2015;9(1):1-2.

The mechanisms by which physical forces regulate endothelial cells to determine
the complexities of vascular structure and function are enigmatic. Studies of
sensory neurons have suggested Piezo proteins as subunits of Ca(2+)-permeable
non-selective cationic channels for detection of noxious mechanical impact. Here 
we show Piezo1 (Fam38a) channels as sensors of frictional force (shear stress)
and determinants of vascular structure in both development and adult physiology. 
Global or endothelial-specific disruption of mouse Piezo1 profoundly disturbed
the developing vasculature and was embryonic lethal within days of the heart
beating. Haploinsufficiency was not lethal but endothelial abnormality was
detected in mature vessels. The importance of Piezo1 channels as sensors of blood
flow was shown by Piezo1 dependence of shear-stress-evoked ionic current and
calcium influx in endothelial cells and the ability of exogenous Piezo1 to confer
sensitivity to shear stress on otherwise resistant cells. Downstream of this
calcium influx there was protease activation and spatial reorganization of
endothelial cells to the polarity of the applied force. The data suggest that
Piezo1 channels function as pivotal integrators in vascular biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13701 
PMCID: PMC4230887
PMID: 25119035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13857.

Recent Northern Hemisphere stratospheric HCl increase due to atmospheric
circulation changes.

Mahieu E(1), Chipperfield MP(2), Notholt J(3), Reddmann T(4), Anderson J(5),
Bernath PF(6), Blumenstock T(4), Coffey MT(7), Dhomse SS(2), Feng W(2), Franco
B(1), Froidevaux L(8), Griffith DW(9), Hannigan JW(7), Hase F(4), Hossaini R(2), 
Jones NB(9), Morino I(10), Murata I(11), Nakajima H(10), Palm M(3), Paton-Walsh
C(9), Russell JM 3rd(5), Schneider M(4), Servais C(1), Smale D(12), Walker
KA(13).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Astrophysics and Geophysics, University of Liège, Liège 4000,
Belgium.
(2)National Centre for Atmospheric Science, School of Earth and Environment,
University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(3)Department of Physics, University of Bremen, Bremen 28334, Germany.
(4)Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Institute for Meteorology and Climate
Research (IMK-ASF), Karlsruhe 76021, Germany.
(5)Department of Atmospheric and Planetary Science, Hampton University, Hampton, 
Virginia 23668, USA.
(6)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Old Dominion University, Norfolk,
Virginia 23529, USA [2] Department of Chemistry, University of York, York YO10
5DD, UK [3] Department of Chemistry, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario
N2L 3G1, Canada.
(7)National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado 80307, USA.
(8)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA.
(9)School of Chemistry, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New South Wales
2522, Australia.
(10)National Institute for Environmental Studies (NIES), Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-8506, Japan.
(11)Graduate School of Environmental Studies, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8578,
Japan.
(12)National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (NIWA), Lauder 9352, New
Zealand.
(13)1] Department of Chemistry, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L
3G1, Canada [2] Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario
M5S 1A7, Canada.

The abundance of chlorine in the Earth's atmosphere increased considerably during
the 1970s to 1990s, following large emissions of anthropogenic long-lived
chlorine-containing source gases, notably the chlorofluorocarbons. The chemical
inertness of chlorofluorocarbons allows their transport and mixing throughout the
troposphere on a global scale, before they reach the stratosphere where they
release chlorine atoms that cause ozone depletion. The large ozone loss over
Antarctica was the key observation that stimulated the definition and signing in 
1987 of the Montreal Protocol, an international treaty establishing a schedule to
reduce the production of the major chlorine- and bromine-containing halocarbons. 
Owing to its implementation, the near-surface total chlorine concentration showed
a maximum in 1993, followed by a decrease of half a per cent to one per cent per 
year, in line with expectations. Remote-sensing data have revealed a peak in
stratospheric chlorine after 1996, then a decrease of close to one per cent per
year, in agreement with the surface observations of the chlorine source gases and
model calculations. Here we present ground-based and satellite data that show a
recent and significant increase, at the 2σ level, in hydrogen chloride (HCl), the
main stratospheric chlorine reservoir, starting around 2007 in the lower
stratosphere of the Northern Hemisphere, in contrast with the ongoing monotonic
decrease of near-surface source gases. Using model simulations, we attribute this
trend anomaly to a slowdown in the Northern Hemisphere atmospheric circulation,
occurring over several consecutive years, transporting more aged air to the lower
stratosphere, and characterized by a larger relative conversion of source gases
to HCl. This short-term dynamical variability will also affect other
stratospheric tracers and needs to be accounted for when studying the evolution
of the stratospheric ozone layer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13857 
PMID: 25373680 


204. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):100-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13892.

Asymmetric photoredox transition-metal catalysis activated by visible light.

Huo H(1), Shen X(1), Wang C(1), Zhang L(1), Röse P(1), Chen LA(2), Harms K(1),
Marsch M(1), Hilt G(1), Meggers E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Fachbereich Chemie, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Hans-Meerwein-Straße, 35043 
Marburg, Germany.
(2)College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen
361005, China.
(3)1] Fachbereich Chemie, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Hans-Meerwein-Straße,
35043 Marburg, Germany [2] College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen 
University, Xiamen 361005, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):45-6.

Asymmetric catalysis is seen as one of the most economical strategies to satisfy 
the growing demand for enantiomerically pure small molecules in the fine chemical
and pharmaceutical industries. And visible light has been recognized as an
environmentally friendly and sustainable form of energy for triggering chemical
transformations and catalytic chemical processes. For these reasons,
visible-light-driven catalytic asymmetric chemistry is a subject of enormous
current interest. Photoredox catalysis provides the opportunity to generate
highly reactive radical ion intermediates with often unusual or unconventional
reactivities under surprisingly mild reaction conditions. In such systems,
photoactivated sensitizers initiate a single electron transfer from (or to) a
closed-shell organic molecule to produce radical cations or radical anions whose 
reactivities are then exploited for interesting or unusual chemical
transformations. However, the high reactivity of photoexcited substrates,
intermediate radical ions or radicals, and the low activation barriers for
follow-up reactions provide significant hurdles for the development of efficient 
catalytic photochemical processes that work under stereochemical control and
provide chiral molecules in an asymmetric fashion. Here we report a highly
efficient asymmetric catalyst that uses visible light for the necessary molecular
activation, thereby combining asymmetric catalysis and photocatalysis. We show
that a chiral iridium complex can serve as a sensitizer for photoredox catalysis 
and at the same time provide very effective asymmetric induction for the
enantioselective alkylation of 2-acyl imidazoles. This new asymmetric photoredox 
catalyst, in which the metal centre simultaneously serves as the exclusive source
of chirality, the catalytically active Lewis acid centre, and the photoredox
centre, offers new opportunities for the 'green' synthesis of non-racemic chiral 
molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13892 
PMID: 25373679 


205. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):92-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13882.

High-efficiency acceleration of an electron beam in a plasma wakefield
accelerator.

Litos M(1), Adli E(2), An W(3), Clarke CI(1), Clayton CE(4), Corde S(1), Delahaye
JP(1), England RJ(1), Fisher AS(1), Frederico J(1), Gessner S(1), Green SZ(1),
Hogan MJ(1), Joshi C(4), Lu W(5), Marsh KA(4), Mori WB(3), Muggli P(6),
Vafaei-Najafabadi N(4), Walz D(1), White G(1), Wu Z(1), Yakimenko V(1), Yocky
G(1).

Author information: 
(1)SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(2)1] SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA [2]
Department of Physics, University of Oslo, 0316 Oslo, Norway.
(3)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(4)Department of Electrical Engineering, University of California Los Angeles,
Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(5)Department of Engineering Physics, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Physics, Munich 80805, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):40-1.

High-efficiency acceleration of charged particle beams at high gradients of
energy gain per unit length is necessary to achieve an affordable and compact
high-energy collider. The plasma wakefield accelerator is one concept being
developed for this purpose. In plasma wakefield acceleration, a charge-density
wake with high accelerating fields is driven by the passage of an
ultra-relativistic bunch of charged particles (the drive bunch) through a plasma.
If a second bunch of relativistic electrons (the trailing bunch) with sufficient 
charge follows in the wake of the drive bunch at an appropriate distance, it can 
be efficiently accelerated to high energy. Previous experiments using just a
single 42-gigaelectronvolt drive bunch have accelerated electrons with a
continuous energy spectrum and a maximum energy of up to 85 gigaelectronvolts
from the tail of the same bunch in less than a metre of plasma. However, the
total charge of these accelerated electrons was insufficient to extract a
substantial amount of energy from the wake. Here we report high-efficiency
acceleration of a discrete trailing bunch of electrons that contains sufficient
charge to extract a substantial amount of energy from the high-gradient,
nonlinear plasma wakefield accelerator. Specifically, we show the acceleration of
about 74 picocoulombs of charge contained in the core of the trailing bunch in an
accelerating gradient of about 4.4 gigavolts per metre. These core particles gain
about 1.6 gigaelectronvolts of energy per particle, with a final energy spread as
low as 0.7 per cent (2.0 per cent on average), and an energy-transfer efficiency 
from the wake to the bunch that can exceed 30 per cent (17.7 per cent on
average). This acceleration of a distinct bunch of electrons containing a
substantial charge and having a small energy spread with both a high accelerating
gradient and a high energy-transfer efficiency represents a milestone in the
development of plasma wakefield acceleration into a compact and affordable
accelerator technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13882 
PMID: 25373678 


206. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):75-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13884.

Life cycles, fitness decoupling and the evolution of multicellularity.

Hammerschmidt K(1), Rose CJ(1), Kerr B(2), Rainey PB(3).

Author information: 
(1)New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study and Allan Wilson Centre for Molecular
Ecology &Evolution, Massey University, Auckland 0745, New Zealand.
(2)Department of Biology and BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(3)1] New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study and Allan Wilson Centre for
Molecular Ecology &Evolution, Massey University, Auckland 0745, New Zealand [2]
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Plön 24306, Germany.

Cooperation is central to the emergence of multicellular life; however, the means
by which the earliest collectives (groups of cells) maintained integrity in the
face of destructive cheating types is unclear. One idea posits cheats as a
primitive germ line in a life cycle that facilitates collective reproduction.
Here we describe an experiment in which simple cooperating lineages of bacteria
were propagated under a selective regime that rewarded collective-level
persistence. Collectives reproduced via life cycles that either embraced, or
purged, cheating types. When embraced, the life cycle alternated between
phenotypic states. Selection fostered inception of a developmental switch that
underpinned the emergence of collectives whose fitness, during the course of
evolution, became decoupled from the fitness of constituent cells. Such
development and decoupling did not occur when groups reproduced via a
cheat-purging regime. Our findings capture key events in the evolution of
Darwinian individuality during the transition from single cells to
multicellularity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13884 
PMID: 25373677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):67-73. doi: 10.1038/nature13947.

The performance and potential of protected areas.

Watson JE(1), Dudley N(2), Segan DB(3), Hockings M(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, University of
Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia. [2] Wildlife Conservation
Society, Global Conservation Program, Bronx, New York 10460, USA. [3] School of
Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072,
Australia.
(2)1] School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, University of
Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia. [2] Equilibrium Research, 47
The Quays, Cumberland Road, Spike Island, Bristol BS1 6UQ, UK.
(3)1] Wildlife Conservation Society, Global Conservation Program, Bronx, New York
10460, USA. [2] School of Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland, St
Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(4)1] School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, University of
Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia. [2] UNEP-World Conservation
Monitoring Centre, Cambridge CD3 0DL, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):329.
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):170.

Originally conceived to conserve iconic landscapes and wildlife, protected areas 
are now expected to achieve an increasingly diverse set of conservation, social
and economic objectives. The amount of land and sea designated as formally
protected has markedly increased over the past century, but there is still a
major shortfall in political commitments to enhance the coverage and
effectiveness of protected areas. Financial support for protected areas is
dwarfed by the benefits that they provide, but these returns depend on effective 
management. A step change involving increased recognition, funding, planning and 
enforcement is urgently needed if protected areas are going to fulfil their
potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13947 
PMID: 25373676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):58-66. doi: 10.1038/nature13946.

Learning to coexist with wildfire.

Moritz MA(1), Batllori E(2), Bradstock RA(3), Gill AM(4), Handmer J(5), Hessburg 
PF(6), Leonard J(7), McCaffrey S(6), Odion DC(8), Schoennagel T(9), Syphard
AD(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, Division of
Ecosystem Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, 130 Mulford Hall,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(2)1] Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, Division of
Ecosystem Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, 130 Mulford Hall,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA. [2] Forest Sciences Center of Catalonia &Center 
for Ecological Research and Forestry Applications, Pujada del Seminari, 28250
Solsona, Spain.
(3)University of Wollongong, Northfields Avenue, Wollongong, New South Wales
2522, Australia.
(4)Australian National University, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 0200,
Australia.
(5)RMIT University, 124 Little La Trobe Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000,
Australia.
(6)US Forest Service, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington DC 20250-1111, USA.
(7)CSIRO, Clayton South, Victoria 3169, Australia.
(8)University of California, Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.
(9)University of Colorado, Boulder, Boulder 80309-0450, Colorado, USA.
(10)Conservation Biology Institute, 136 SW Washington Avenue, Suite 202,
Corvallis, Oregon 97333, USA.

The impacts of escalating wildfire in many regions - the lives and homes lost,
the expense of suppression and the damage to ecosystem services - necessitate a
more sustainable coexistence with wildfire. Climate change and continued
development on fire-prone landscapes will only compound current problems.
Emerging strategies for managing ecosystems and mitigating risks to human
communities provide some hope, although greater recognition of their inherent
variation and links is crucial. Without a more integrated framework, fire will
never operate as a natural ecosystem process, and the impact on society will
continue to grow. A more coordinated approach to risk management and land-use
planning in these coupled systems is needed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13946 
PMID: 25373675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):50-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13945.

Implications of agricultural transitions and urbanization for ecosystem services.

Cumming GS(1), Buerkert A(2), Hoffmann EM(2), Schlecht E(3), von Cramon-Taubadel 
S(4), Tscharntke T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Percy FitzPatrick Institute, DST/NRF Centre of Excellence, University of Cape 
Town, Rondebosch, Cape Town 7701, South Africa.
(2)Organic Plant Production and Agroecosystems Research in the Tropics and
Subtropics, Universität Kassel, Steinstr. 19, D-37213 Witzenhausen, Germany.
(3)Animal Husbandry in the Tropics and Subtropics, Universität Kassel and
Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Steinstr. 19, D-37213 Witzenhausen, Germany.
(4)Department of Agricultural Economics and Rural Development,
Georg-August-Universität, Platz der Göttinger Sieben 5, D-37073 Germany.
(5)Agroecology, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Grisebachstr. 6, D-37077
Göttingen, Germany.

Historically, farmers and hunter-gatherers relied directly on ecosystem services,
which they both exploited and enjoyed. Urban populations still rely on
ecosystems, but prioritize non-ecosystem services (socioeconomic). Population
growth and densification increase the scale and change the nature of both
ecosystem- and non-ecosystem-service supply and demand, weakening direct
feedbacks between ecosystems and societies and potentially pushing
social-ecological systems into traps that can lead to collapse. The interacting
and mutually reinforcing processes of technological change, population growth and
urbanization contribute to over-exploitation of ecosystems through complex
feedbacks that have important implications for sustainable resource use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13945 
PMID: 25373674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):96-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13829. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Solution-processed, high-performance light-emitting diodes based on quantum dots.

Dai X(1), Zhang Z(2), Jin Y(1), Niu Y(2), Cao H(2), Liang X(1), Chen L(3), Wang
J(4), Peng X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Chemistry of High-Performance &Novel Materials, State Key
Laboratory of Silicon Materials, Cyrus Tang Center for Sensor Materials and
Applications, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou 310027, China.
(2)Center for Chemistry of High-Performance &Novel Materials, Department of
Chemistry, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China.
(3)i-Lab, Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 398 Ruoshui Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou 215123, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Flexible Electronics (KLOFE) &Institute of Advanced
Materials (IAM), National Jiangsu Synergistic Innovation Center for Advanced
Materials (SICAM), Nanjing Tech University (NanjingTech), 30 South Puzhu Road,
Nanjing 211816, China.

Solution-processed optoelectronic and electronic devices are attractive owing to 
the potential for low-cost fabrication of large-area devices and the
compatibility with lightweight, flexible plastic substrates. Solution-processed
light-emitting diodes (LEDs) using conjugated polymers or quantum dots as
emitters have attracted great interest over the past two decades. However, the
overall performance of solution-processed LEDs--including their efficiency,
efficiency roll-off at high current densities, turn-on voltage and lifetime under
operational conditions-remains inferior to that of the best vacuum-deposited
organic LEDs. Here we report a solution-processed, multilayer quantum-dot-based
LED with excellent performance and reproducibility. It exhibits colour-saturated 
deep-red emission, sub-bandgap turn-on at 1.7 volts, high external quantum
efficiencies of up to 20.5 per cent, low efficiency roll-off (up to 15.1 per cent
of the external quantum efficiency at 100 mA cm(-2)), and a long operational
lifetime of more than 100,000 hours at 100 cd m(-2), making this device the
best-performing solution-processed red LED so far, comparable to state-of-the-art
vacuum-deposited organic LEDs. This optoelectronic performance is achieved by
inserting an insulating layer between the quantum dot layer and the oxide
electron-transport layer to optimize charge balance in the device and preserve
the superior emissive properties of the quantum dots. We anticipate that our
results will be a starting point for further research, leading to
high-performance, all-solution-processed quantum-dot-based LEDs ideal for
next-generation display and solid-state lighting technologies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13829 
PMID: 25363773 


211. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):85-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13830. Epub 2014 Oct 26.

Turbulent heating in galaxy clusters brightest in X-rays.

Zhuravleva I(1), Churazov E(2), Schekochihin AA(3), Allen SW(4), Arévalo P(5),
Fabian AC(6), Forman WR(7), Sanders JS(8), Simionescu A(9), Sunyaev R(2),
Vikhlinin A(7), Werner N(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology, Stanford
University, 452 Lomita Mall, Stanford, California 94305-4085, USA [2] Department 
of Physics, Stanford University, 382 Via Pueblo Mall, Stanford, California
94305-4060, USA.
(2)1] Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 1,
D-85741 Garching, Germany [2] Space Research Institute (IKI), Profsoyuznaya
84/32, Moscow 117997, Russia.
(3)1] Rudolf Peierls Centre for Theoretical Physics, University of Oxford, 1
Keble Rd, Oxford OX1 3NP, UK [2] Merton College, University of Oxford, Merton St,
Oxford OX1 4JD, UK.
(4)1] Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology, Stanford
University, 452 Lomita Mall, Stanford, California 94305-4085, USA [2] Department 
of Physics, Stanford University, 382 Via Pueblo Mall, Stanford, California
94305-4060, USA [3] SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road,
Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(5)1] Instituto de Física y Astronomía, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de
Valparaíso, Gran Bretana N 1111, Playa Ancha, Valparaíso, Chile [2] Instituto de 
Astrofísica, Facultad de Física, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 306,
Santiago 22, Chile.
(6)Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3
0HA, UK.
(7)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(8)Max-Planck-Institut für extraterrestrische Physik, Giessenbachstrasse 1,
D-85748 Garching, Germany.
(9)Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, 3-1-1 Yoshinodai, Sagamihara, Kanagawa
252-5210, Japan.

The hot (10(7) to 10(8) kelvin), X-ray-emitting intracluster medium (ICM) is the 
dominant baryonic constituent of clusters of galaxies. In the cores of many
clusters, radiative energy losses from the ICM occur on timescales much shorter
than the age of the system. Unchecked, this cooling would lead to massive
accumulations of cold gas and vigorous star formation, in contradiction to
observations. Various sources of energy capable of compensating for these cooling
losses have been proposed, the most promising being heating by the supermassive
black holes in the central galaxies, through inflation of bubbles of relativistic
plasma. Regardless of the original source of energy, the question of how this
energy is transferred to the ICM remains open. Here we present a plausible
solution to this question based on deep X-ray data and a new data analysis method
that enable us to evaluate directly the ICM heating rate from the dissipation of 
turbulence. We find that turbulent heating is sufficient to offset radiative
cooling and indeed appears to balance it locally at each radius-it may therefore 
be the key element in resolving the gas cooling problem in cluster cores and,
more universally, in the atmospheres of X-ray-emitting, gas-rich systems on
scales from galaxy clusters to groups and elliptical galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13830 
PMID: 25363764 


212. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):120-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13852. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Luminal signalling links cell communication to tissue architecture during
organogenesis.

Durdu S(1), Iskar M(1), Revenu C(1), Schieber N(1), Kunze A(1), Bork P(1), Schwab
Y(1), Gilmour D(1).

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory Heidelberg, Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117
Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2014 Dec 8;31(5):519-20.
    Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):41-2.

Morphogenesis is the process whereby cell collectives are shaped into
differentiated tissues and organs. The self-organizing nature of morphogenesis
has been recently demonstrated by studies showing that stem cells in
three-dimensional culture can generate complex organoids, such as mini-guts,
optic-cups and even mini-brains. To achieve this, cell collectives must regulate 
the activity of secreted signalling molecules that control cell differentiation, 
presumably through the self-assembly of microenvironments or niches. However,
mechanisms that allow changes in tissue architecture to feedback directly on the 
activity of extracellular signals have not been described. Here we investigate
how the process of tissue assembly controls signalling activity during
organogenesis in vivo, using the migrating zebrafish lateral line primordium. We 
show that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) activity within the tissue controls the 
frequency at which it deposits rosette-like mechanosensory organs. Live imaging
reveals that FGF becomes specifically concentrated in microluminal structures
that assemble at the centre of these organs and spatially constrain its
signalling activity. Genetic inhibition of microlumen assembly and laser
micropuncture experiments demonstrate that microlumina increase signalling
responses in participating cells, thus allowing FGF to coordinate the migratory
behaviour of cell groups at the tissue rear. As the formation of a central lumen 
is a self-organizing property of many cell types, such as epithelia and embryonic
stem cells, luminal signalling provides a potentially general mechanism to
locally restrict, coordinate and enhance cell communication within tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13852 
PMID: 25337877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):130-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13862. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Cessation of CCL2 inhibition accelerates breast cancer metastasis by promoting
angiogenesis.

Bonapace L(1), Coissieux MM(2), Wyckoff J(2), Mertz KD(3), Varga Z(4), Junt T(5),
Bentires-Alj M(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research (FMI), Basel 4058,
Switzerland [2] Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, 4002 Basel,
Switzerland.
(2)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research (FMI), Basel 4058,
Switzerland.
(3)1] Department of Pathology, University Hospital Zurich, 8006 Zurich,
Switzerland [2] Institute of Pathology Liestal, Cantonal Hospital Baselland, 4410
Liestal, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Pathology, University Hospital Zurich, 8006 Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, 4002 Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):46-7.
    Breast Cancer Res. 2015;17:68.

Secretion of C-C chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) by mammary tumours recruits
CCR2-expressing inflammatory monocytes to primary tumours and metastatic sites,
and CCL2 neutralization in mice inhibits metastasis by retaining monocytes in the
bone marrow. Here we report a paradoxical effect of CCL2 in four syngeneic mouse 
models of metastatic breast cancer. Surprisingly, interruption of CCL2 inhibition
leads to an overshoot of metastases and accelerates death. This is the result of 
monocyte release from the bone marrow and enhancement of cancer cell mobilization
from the primary tumour, as well as blood vessel formation and increased
proliferation of metastatic cells in the lungs in an interleukin (IL)-6- and
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A-dependent manner. Notably, inhibition
of CCL2 and IL-6 markedly reduced metastases and increased survival of the
animals. CCL2 has been implicated in various neoplasias and adopted as a
therapeutic target. However, our results call for caution when considering
anti-CCL2 agents as monotherapy in metastatic disease and highlight the tumour
microenvironment as a critical determinant of successful anti-metastatic therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13862 
PMID: 25337873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):88-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13836. Epub 2014 Oct 19.

Suppression of cooling by strong magnetic fields in white dwarf stars.

Valyavin G(1), Shulyak D(2), Wade GA(3), Antonyuk K(4), Zharikov SV(5),
Galazutdinov GA(6), Plachinda S(4), Bagnulo S(7), Machado LF(5), Alvarez M(5),
Clark DM(5), Lopez JM(5), Hiriart D(5), Han I(8), Jeon YB(8), Zurita C(9), Mujica
R(10), Burlakova T(1), Szeifert T(11), Burenkov A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Special Astrophysical Observatory of Russian Academy of Science, Nizhnij
Arkhyz, Zelenchukskiy region, Karachai-Cherkessian Republic 369167, Russia.
(2)Institute for Astrophysics, Georg-August-University, Friedrich-Hund-Platz 1,
D-37077, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Physics, Royal Military College of Canada, PO Box 17000 Station 
Forces, Kingston, Ontario, K7K 7B4, Canada.
(4)Crimean Astrophysical Observatory, Nauchny, Crimea 98409, Ukraine.
(5)Instituto de Astronomía, Observatorio Astronómico Nacional San Pedro Martir
(SPM), Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, 22860 Ensenada, Baja California, 
Mexico.
(6)1] Instituto de Astronomía, Universidad Catolica del Norte, Avenida Angamos
0610, Antofagasta, Chile [2] Pulkovo Observatory, Pulkovskoe Shosse 65/1,
Saint-Petersburg 196140, Russia.
(7)Armagh Observatory, College Hill, Armagh BT61 9DG, UK.
(8)Korea Astronomy and Space Science Institute 776, Daedeokdae-ro, Yuseong-gu,
Daejeon 305-348, South Korea.
(9)1] Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, 38200, La Laguna, Tenerife, Spain [2]
Departamento de Astrofísica, Universidad de La Laguna, 38206 La Laguna, Tenerife,
Spain.
(10)Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electróníca, Apartado Postal 51 y
216, 72000 Tonantzintla, Pueblo, Mexico.
(11)European Southern Observatory, Alonso de Córdova 3107, Santiago, Chile.

Isolated cool white dwarf stars more often have strong magnetic fields than
young, hotter white dwarfs, which has been a puzzle because magnetic fields are
expected to decay with time but a cool surface suggests that the star is old. In 
addition, some white dwarfs with strong fields vary in brightness as they rotate,
which has been variously attributed to surface brightness inhomogeneities similar
to sunspots, chemical inhomogeneities and other magneto-optical effects. Here we 
describe optical observations of the brightness and magnetic field of the cool
white dwarf WD 1953-011 taken over about eight years, and the results of an
analysis of its surface temperature and magnetic field distribution. We find that
the magnetic field suppresses atmospheric convection, leading to dark spots in
the most magnetized areas. We also find that strong fields are sufficient to
suppress convection over the entire surface in cool magnetic white dwarfs, which 
inhibits their cooling evolution relative to weakly magnetic and non-magnetic
white dwarfs, making them appear younger than they truly are. This explains the
long-standing mystery of why magnetic fields are more common amongst cool white
dwarfs, and implies that the currently accepted ages of strongly magnetic white
dwarfs are systematically too young.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13836 
PMID: 25327247 


215. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13869. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Selection for niche differentiation in plant communities increases biodiversity
effects.

Zuppinger-Dingley D(1), Schmid B(1), Petermann JS(2), Yadav V(1), De Deyn GB(3), 
Flynn DF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies &Zurich-Basel
Plant Science Center, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057
Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)1] Institute of Biology, Freie Universität Berlin, Königin-Luise-Str. 1-3,
14195 Berlin, Germany [2] Berlin-Brandenburg Institute of Advanced Biodiversity
Research (BBIB), 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Environmental Sciences, University of Wageningen, Droevendaalsesteeg 4, 6708PB
Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(4)1] Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies &Zurich-Basel
Plant Science Center, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057
Zurich, Switzerland [2] Arnold Arboretum, Harvard University, Boston,
Massachusetts 02131, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):44-5.

In experimental plant communities, relationships between biodiversity and
ecosystem functioning have been found to strengthen over time, a fact often
attributed to increased resource complementarity between species in mixtures and 
negative plant-soil feedbacks in monocultures. Here we show that selection for
niche differentiation between species can drive this increasing biodiversity
effect. Growing 12 grassland species in test monocultures and mixtures, we found 
character displacement between species and increased biodiversity effects when
plants had been selected over 8 years in species mixtures rather than in
monocultures. When grown in mixtures, relative differences in height and specific
leaf area between plant species selected in mixtures (mixture types) were greater
than between species selected in monocultures (monoculture types). Furthermore,
net biodiversity and complementarity effects were greater in mixtures of mixture 
types than in mixtures of monoculture types. Our study demonstrates a novel
mechanism for the increase in biodiversity effects: selection for increased niche
differentiation through character displacement. Selection in diverse mixtures may
therefore increase species coexistence and ecosystem functioning in natural
communities and may also allow increased mixture yields in agriculture or
forestry. However, loss of biodiversity and prolonged selection of crops in
monoculture may compromise this potential for selection in the longer term.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13869 
PMID: 25317555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):80-84. doi: 10.1038/nature13686. Epub 2014 Sep 7.

Architecture of mammalian respiratory complex I.

Vinothkumar KR(#)(1), Zhu J(#)(2), Hirst J(2).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge, CB2 0QH,
UK.
(2)MRC Mitochondrial Biology Unit, Wellcome Trust / MRC Building, Hills Road,
Cambridge, CB2 0XY, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase) is essential for oxidative
phosphorylation in mammalian mitochondria. It couples electron transfer from NADH
to ubiquinone with proton translocation across the energy-transducing inner
membrane, providing electrons for respiration and driving ATP synthesis.
Mammalian complex I contains 44 different nuclear- and mitochondrial-encoded
subunits, with a combined mass of 1 MDa. The 14 conserved 'core' subunits have
been structurally defined in the minimal, bacterial complex, but the structures
and arrangement of the 30 'supernumerary' subunits are unknown. Here we describe 
a 5 Å resolution structure of complex I from Bos taurus heart mitochondria, a
close relative of the human enzyme, determined by single-particle electron
cryo-microscopy. We present the structures of the mammalian core subunits that
contain eight iron-sulphur clusters and 60 transmembrane helices, identify 18
supernumerary transmembrane helices, and assign and model 14 supernumerary
subunits. Thus, we considerably advance knowledge of the structure of mammalian
complex I and the architecture of its supernumerary ensemble around the core
domains. Our structure provides insights into the roles of the supernumerary
subunits in regulation, assembly and homeostasis, and a basis for understanding
the effects of mutations that cause a diverse range of human diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13686 
PMCID: PMC4224586
PMID: 25209663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):143-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13802. Epub 2014 Sep 5.

Pseudouridine profiling reveals regulated mRNA pseudouridylation in yeast and
human cells.

Carlile TM(1), Rojas-Duran MF(1), Zinshteyn B(1), Shin H(1), Bartoli KM(1),
Gilbert WV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2015 Feb;25(2):153-4.
    Nat Methods. 2014 Nov;11(11):1095.

Post-transcriptional modification of RNA nucleosides occurs in all living
organisms. Pseudouridine, the most abundant modified nucleoside in non-coding
RNAs, enhances the function of transfer RNA and ribosomal RNA by stabilizing the 
RNA structure. Messenger RNAs were not known to contain pseudouridine, but
artificial pseudouridylation dramatically affects mRNA function--it changes the
genetic code by facilitating non-canonical base pairing in the ribosome decoding 
centre. However, without evidence of naturally occurring mRNA pseudouridylation, 
its physiological relevance was unclear. Here we present a comprehensive analysis
of pseudouridylation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and human RNAs using Pseudo-seq,
a genome-wide, single-nucleotide-resolution method for pseudouridine
identification. Pseudo-seq accurately identifies known modification sites as well
as many novel sites in non-coding RNAs, and reveals hundreds of pseudouridylated 
sites in mRNAs. Genetic analysis allowed us to assign most of the new
modification sites to one of seven conserved pseudouridine synthases, Pus1-4, 6, 
7 and 9. Notably, the majority of pseudouridines in mRNA are regulated in
response to environmental signals, such as nutrient deprivation in yeast and
serum starvation in human cells. These results suggest a mechanism for the rapid 
and regulated rewiring of the genetic code through inducible mRNA modifications. 
Our findings reveal unanticipated roles for pseudouridylation and provide a
resource for identifying the targets of pseudouridine synthases implicated in
human disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13802 
PMCID: PMC4224642
PMID: 25192136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):138-42. doi: 10.1038/nature13601. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Broad and potent HIV-1 neutralization by a human antibody that binds the
gp41-gp120 interface.

Huang J(1), Kang BH(1), Pancera M(2), Lee JH(3), Tong T(4), Feng Y(5), Imamichi
H(1), Georgiev IS(2), Chuang GY(2), Druz A(2), Doria-Rose NA(2), Laub L(1),
Sliepen K(6), van Gils MJ(6), de la Peña AT(6), Derking R(6), Klasse PJ(7),
Migueles SA(1), Bailer RT(2), Alam M(8), Pugach P(7), Haynes BF(8), Wyatt RT(3), 
Sanders RW(9), Binley JM(4), Ward AB(3), Mascola JR(2), Kwong PD(2), Connors
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)1] The Scripps Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology and Immunogen Discovery,
The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] International
AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) Neutralizing Antibody Center, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(4)San Diego Biomedical Research Institute, San Diego, California 92121, USA.
(5)International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) Neutralizing Antibody Center, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(6)Department of Medical Microbiology, Academic Medical Center, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1100 DD, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(8)Duke Human Vaccine Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27710,
USA.
(9)1] Department of Medical Microbiology, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1100 DD, The Netherlands [2] Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, New York
10065, USA.

The isolation of human monoclonal antibodies is providing important insights into
the specificities that underlie broad neutralization of HIV-1 (reviewed in ref.
1). Here we report a broad and extremely potent HIV-specific monoclonal antibody,
termed 35O22, which binds a novel HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) epitope.
35O22 neutralized 62% of 181 pseudoviruses with a half-maximum inhibitory
concentration (IC50) <50 μg ml(-1). The median IC50 of neutralized viruses was
0.033 μg ml(-1), among the most potent thus far described. 35O22 did not bind
monomeric forms of Env tested, but did bind the trimeric BG505 SOSIP.664.
Mutagenesis and a reconstruction by negative-stain electron microscopy of the Fab
in complex with trimer revealed that it bound to a conserved epitope, which
stretched across gp120 and gp41. The specificity of 35O22 represents a novel site
of vulnerability on HIV Env, which serum analysis indicates to be commonly
elicited by natural infection. Binding to this new site of vulnerability may thus
be an important complement to current monoclonal-antibody-based approaches to
immunotherapies, prophylaxis and vaccine design.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13601 
PMCID: PMC4224615
PMID: 25186731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):116-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13664. Epub 2014 Aug 31.

Sensory-evoked LTP driven by dendritic plateau potentials in vivo.

Gambino F(1), Pagès S(2), Kehayas V(3), Baptista D(4), Tatti R(3), Carleton A(4),
Holtmaat A(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences and the Center for Neuroscience, CMU,
University of Geneva, 1 rue Michel Servet, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] [3]
Institute for Interdisciplinary Neuroscience (IINS), UMR 5297 CNRS and University
of Bordeaux, 146 rue Léo-Saignat, 33077 Bordeaux, France.
(2)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences and the Center for Neuroscience, CMU,
University of Geneva, 1 rue Michel Servet, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2].
(3)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences and the Center for Neuroscience, CMU,
University of Geneva, 1 rue Michel Servet, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] Lemanic
Neuroscience Doctoral School, 1 rue Michel Servet, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Basic Neurosciences and the Center for Neuroscience, CMU,
University of Geneva, 1 rue Michel Servet, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) is thought to be a key process in cortical 
synaptic network plasticity and memory formation. Hebbian forms of LTP depend on 
strong postsynaptic depolarization, which in many models is generated by action
potentials that propagate back from the soma into dendrites. However, local
dendritic depolarization has been shown to mediate these forms of LTP as well. As
pyramidal cells in supragranular layers of the somatosensory cortex spike
infrequently, it is unclear which of the two mechanisms prevails for those cells 
in vivo. Using whole-cell recordings in the mouse somatosensory cortex in vivo,
we demonstrate that rhythmic sensory whisker stimulation efficiently induces
synaptic LTP in layer 2/3 (L2/3) pyramidal cells in the absence of somatic
spikes. The induction of LTP depended on the occurrence of NMDAR
(N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor)-mediated long-lasting depolarizations, which bear
similarities to dendritic plateau potentials. In addition, we show that whisker
stimuli recruit synaptic networks that originate from the posteromedial complex
of the thalamus (POm). Photostimulation of channelrhodopsin-2 expressing POm
neurons generated NMDAR-mediated plateau potentials, whereas the inhibition of
POm activity during rhythmic whisker stimulation suppressed the generation of
those potentials and prevented whisker-evoked LTP. Taken together, our data
provide evidence for sensory-driven synaptic LTP in vivo, in the absence of
somatic spiking. Instead, LTP is mediated by plateau potentials that are
generated through the cooperative activity of lemniscal and paralemniscal
synaptic circuitry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13664 
PMID: 25174710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):112-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13666. Epub 2014 Aug 24.

Nodal signalling determines biradial asymmetry in Hydra.

Watanabe H(1), Schmidt HA(2), Kuhn A(1), Höger SK(1), Kocagöz Y(1), Laumann-Lipp 
N(1), Ozbek S(1), Holstein TW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Evolution and Genomics, Centre for Organismal Studies 
(COS), Heidelberg University, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Center for Integrative Bioinformatics Vienna (CIBIV), Max F. Perutz
Laboratories (MFPL), University of Vienna/Medical University of Vienna, 1030
Vienna, Austria.

In bilaterians, three orthogonal body axes define the animal form, with distinct 
anterior-posterior, dorsal-ventral and left-right asymmetries. The key signalling
factors are Wnt family proteins for the anterior-posterior axis, Bmp family
proteins for the dorsal-ventral axis and Nodal for the left-right axis.
Cnidarians, the sister group to bilaterians, are characterized by one oral-aboral
body axis, which exhibits a distinct biradiality of unknown molecular nature.
Here we analysed the biradial growth pattern in the radially symmetrical
cnidarian polyp Hydra, and we report evidence of Nodal in a pre-bilaterian clade.
We identified a Nodal-related gene (Ndr) in Hydra magnipapillata, and this gene
is essential for setting up an axial asymmetry along the main body axis. This
asymmetry defines a lateral signalling centre, inducing a new body axis of a
budding polyp orthogonal to the mother polyp's axis. Ndr is expressed exclusively
in the lateral bud anlage and induces Pitx, which encodes an evolutionarily
conserved transcription factor that functions downstream of Nodal. Reminiscent of
its function in vertebrates, Nodal acts downstream of β-Catenin signalling. Our
data support an evolutionary scenario in which a 'core-signalling cassette'
consisting of β-Catenin, Nodal and Pitx pre-dated the cnidarian-bilaterian split.
We presume that this cassette was co-opted for various modes of axial patterning:
for example, for lateral branching in cnidarians and left-right patterning in
bilaterians.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13666 
PMID: 25156256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):134-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13638. Epub 2014 Aug 24.

Tumour-infiltrating Gr-1+ myeloid cells antagonize senescence in cancer.

Di Mitri D(1), Toso A(1), Chen JJ(2), Sarti M(3), Pinton S(3), Jost TR(4),
D'Antuono R(4), Montani E(4), Garcia-Escudero R(5), Guccini I(3), Da
Silva-Alvarez S(6), Collado M(6), Eisenberger M(7), Zhang Z(8), Catapano C(3),
Grassi F(9), Alimonti A(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Oncology Research (IOR), Oncology Institute of Southern
Switzerland, Bellinzona CH6500, Switzerland [2].
(2)1] Institute of Oncology Research (IOR), Oncology Institute of Southern
Switzerland, Bellinzona CH6500, Switzerland [2] Faculty of Biology and Medicine, 
University of Lausanne UNIL, Lausanne CH1011, Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Oncology Research (IOR), Oncology Institute of Southern
Switzerland, Bellinzona CH6500, Switzerland.
(4)Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB), Bellinzona CH6500, Switzerland.
(5)1] Institute of Oncology Research (IOR), Oncology Institute of Southern
Switzerland, Bellinzona CH6500, Switzerland [2] Molecular Oncology Unit, CIEMAT, 
28040 Madrid, Spain.
(6)Laboratory of Stem Cells in Cancer and Aging, (stemCHUS) Health Research
Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Clinical University Hospital (CHUS), 
E15706 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(7)Department of Oncology, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21231-1000, USA.
(8)Divisions of BioStatistics, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21231-1000, USA.
(9)1] Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB), Bellinzona CH6500, Switzerland
[2] Department of Medical Biotechnology and Translational Medicine, University of
Milan, Milan I-20100, Italy.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Jun;193(6):2146.

Aberrant activation of oncogenes or loss of tumour suppressor genes opposes
malignant transformation by triggering a stable arrest in cell growth, which is
termed cellular senescence. This process is finely tuned by both cell-autonomous 
and non-cell-autonomous mechanisms that regulate the entry of tumour cells to
senescence. Whether tumour-infiltrating immune cells can oppose senescence is
unknown. Here we show that at the onset of senescence, PTEN null prostate tumours
in mice are massively infiltrated by a population of CD11b(+)Gr-1(+) myeloid
cells that protect a fraction of proliferating tumour cells from senescence, thus
sustaining tumour growth. Mechanistically, we found that Gr-1(+) cells antagonize
senescence in a paracrine manner by interfering with the senescence-associated
secretory phenotype of the tumour through the secretion of interleukin-1 receptor
antagonist (IL-1RA). Strikingly, Pten-loss-induced cellular senescence was
enhanced in vivo when Il1ra knockout myeloid cells were adoptively transferred to
PTEN null mice. Therapeutically, docetaxel-induced senescence and efficacy were
higher in PTEN null tumours when the percentage of tumour-infiltrating
CD11b(+)Gr-1(+) myeloid cells was reduced using an antagonist of CXC chemokine
receptor 2 (CXCR2). Taken together, our findings identify a novel
non-cell-autonomous network, established by innate immunity, that controls
senescence evasion and chemoresistance. Targeting this network provides novel
opportunities for cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13638 
PMID: 25156255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):125-129. doi: 10.1038/nature13663. Epub 2014 Aug 24.

PLETHORA gradient formation mechanism separates auxin responses.

Mähönen AP(#)(1)(2)(3), Ten Tusscher K(#)(4), Siligato R(1)(3), Smetana O(1)(3), 
Díaz-Triviño S(2)(5), Salojärvi J(3), Wachsman G(2), Prasad K(2), Heidstra
R(2)(5), Scheres B(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki 00014, Finland.
(2)Molecular Genetics, Department of Biology, Utrecht University, Utrecht 3584
CH, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki 00014, Finland.
(4)Theoretical Biology and Bioinformatics, Utrecht University, Utrecht 3584 CH,
the Netherlands.
(5)Plant Developmental Biology, Wageningen University Research, Wageningen 6708
PB, the Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

During plant growth, dividing cells in meristems must coordinate transitions from
division to expansion and differentiation, thus generating three distinct
developmental zones: the meristem, elongation zone and differentiation zone.
Simultaneously, plants display tropisms, rapid adjustments of their direction of 
growth to adapt to environmental conditions. It is unclear how stable zonation is
maintained during transient adjustments in growth direction. In Arabidopsis
roots, many aspects of zonation are controlled by the phytohormone auxin and
auxin-induced PLETHORA (PLT) transcription factors, both of which display a
graded distribution with a maximum near the root tip. In addition, auxin is also 
pivotal for tropic responses. Here, using an iterative experimental and
computational approach, we show how an interplay between auxin and PLTs controls 
zonation and gravitropism. We find that the PLT gradient is not a direct,
proportionate readout of the auxin gradient. Rather, prolonged high auxin levels 
generate a narrow PLT transcription domain from which a gradient of PLT protein
is subsequently generated through slow growth dilution and cell-to-cell movement.
The resulting PLT levels define the location of developmental zones. In addition 
to slowly promoting PLT transcription, auxin also rapidly influences division,
expansion and differentiation rates. We demonstrate how this specific regulatory 
design in which auxin cooperates with PLTs through different mechanisms and on
different timescales enables both the fast tropic environmental responses and
stable zonation dynamics necessary for coordinated cell differentiation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13663 
PMCID: PMC4326657
PMID: 25156253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Nature. 2014 Nov 6;515(7525):147-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13733. Epub 2014 Aug 12.

Crystal structure of the RNA-guided immune surveillance Cascade complex in
Escherichia coli.

Zhao H(1), Sheng G(2), Wang J(2), Wang M(2), Bunkoczi G(3), Gong W(2), Wei Z(4), 
Wang Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of RNA Biology, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100101, China [2] University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Laboratory of RNA Biology, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(3)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Hills Road, 
Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.
(4)Department of Biology, South University of Science and Technology of China,
Shenzhen, 518055, China.

Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) together with 
CRISPR-associated (Cas) proteins form the CRISPR/Cas system to defend against
foreign nucleic acids of bacterial and archaeal origin. In the I-E subtype
CRISPR/Cas system, eleven subunits from five Cas proteins (CasA1B2C6D1E1)
assemble along a CRISPR RNA (crRNA) to form the Cascade complex. Here we report
on the 3.05 Å crystal structure of the 405-kilodalton Escherichia coli Cascade
complex that provides molecular details beyond those available from earlier
lower-resolution cryo-electron microscopy structures. The bound 61-nucleotide
crRNA spans the entire 11-protein subunit-containing complex, where it interacts 
with all six CasC subunits (named CasC1-6), with its 5' and 3' terminal repeats
anchored by CasD and CasE, respectively. The crRNA spacer region is positioned
along a continuous groove on the concave surface generated by the aligned CasC1-6
subunits. The five long β-hairpins that project from individual CasC2-6 subunits 
extend across the crRNA, with each β-hairpin inserting into the gap between the
last stacked base and its adjacent splayed counterpart, and positioned within the
groove of the preceding CasC subunit. Therefore, instead of continuously
stacking, the crRNA spacer region is divided into five equal fragments, with each
fragment containing five stacked bases flanked by one flipped-out base. Each of
those crRNA spacer fragments interacts with CasC in a similar fashion.
Furthermore, our structure explains why the seed sequence, with its
outward-directed bases, has a critical role in target DNA recognition. In
conclusion, our structure of the Cascade complex provides novel molecular details
of protein-protein and protein-RNA alignments and interactions required for
generation of a complex mediating RNA-guided immune surveillance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13733 
PMID: 25118175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):620-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13881.

Calcisponges have a ParaHox gene and dynamic expression of dispersed NK homeobox 
genes.

Fortunato SA(1), Adamski M(2), Ramos OM(3), Leininger S(2), Liu J(2), Ferrier
DE(3), Adamska M(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Sars International Centre for Marine Molecular Biology, University of
Bergen, Thormøhlensgate 55, 5008 Bergen, Norway [2] Department of Biology,
University of Bergen, Thormøhlensgate 55, 5008 Bergen, Norway.
(2)Sars International Centre for Marine Molecular Biology, University of Bergen, 
Thormøhlensgate 55, 5008 Bergen, Norway.
(3)The Scottish Oceans Institute, Gatty Marine Laboratory, School of Biology,
University of St Andrews, East Sands, St Andrews, Fife KY16 8LB, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):570-1.

Sponges are simple animals with few cell types, but their genomes paradoxically
contain a wide variety of developmental transcription factors, including homeobox
genes belonging to the Antennapedia (ANTP) class, which in bilaterians encompass 
Hox, ParaHox and NK genes. In the genome of the demosponge Amphimedon
queenslandica, no Hox or ParaHox genes are present, but NK genes are linked in a 
tight cluster similar to the NK clusters of bilaterians. It has been proposed
that Hox and ParaHox genes originated from NK cluster genes after divergence of
sponges from the lineage leading to cnidarians and bilaterians. On the other
hand, synteny analysis lends support to the notion that the absence of Hox and
ParaHox genes in Amphimedon is a result of secondary loss (the ghost locus
hypothesis). Here we analysed complete suites of ANTP-class homeoboxes in two
calcareous sponges, Sycon ciliatum and Leucosolenia complicata. Our phylogenetic 
analyses demonstrate that these calcisponges possess orthologues of bilaterian NK
genes (Hex, Hmx and Msx), a varying number of additional NK genes and one ParaHox
gene, Cdx. Despite the generation of scaffolds spanning multiple genes, we find
no evidence of clustering of Sycon NK genes. All Sycon ANTP-class genes are
developmentally expressed, with patterns suggesting their involvement in cell
type specification in embryos and adults, metamorphosis and body plan patterning.
These results demonstrate that ParaHox genes predate the origin of sponges, thus 
confirming the ghost locus hypothesis, and highlight the need to analyse the
genomes of multiple sponge lineages to obtain a complete picture of the ancestral
composition of the first animal genome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13881 
PMID: 25355364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):616-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13799.

Centennial-scale changes in the global carbon cycle during the last deglaciation.

Marcott SA(1), Bauska TK(2), Buizert C(2), Steig EJ(3), Rosen JL(2), Cuffey
KM(4), Fudge TJ(3), Severinghaus JP(5), Ahn J(6), Kalk ML(2), McConnell JR(7),
Sowers T(8), Taylor KC(7), White JW(9), Brook EJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA [2] Department of Geoscience, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(2)College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(3)Department of Earth and Space Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(4)Department of Geography, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(5)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego,
California 92037, USA.
(6)School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul
151-742, South Korea.
(7)Desert Research Institute, Nevada System of Higher Education, Reno, Nevada
89512, USA.
(8)Earth and Environmental Systems Institute, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(9)INSTAAR, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.

Global climate and the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) are
correlated over recent glacial cycles. The combination of processes responsible
for a rise in atmospheric CO2 at the last glacial termination (23,000 to
9,000 years ago), however, remains uncertain. Establishing the timing and rate of
CO2 changes in the past provides critical insight into the mechanisms that
influence the carbon cycle and helps put present and future anthropogenic
emissions in context. Here we present CO2 and methane (CH4) records of the last
deglaciation from a new high-accumulation West Antarctic ice core with
unprecedented temporal resolution and precise chronology. We show that although
low-frequency CO2 variations parallel changes in Antarctic temperature, abrupt
CO2 changes occur that have a clear relationship with abrupt climate changes in
the Northern Hemisphere. A significant proportion of the direct radiative forcing
associated with the rise in atmospheric CO2 occurred in three sudden steps, each 
of 10 to 15 parts per million. Every step took place in less than two centuries
and was followed by no notable change in atmospheric CO2 for about 1,000 to
1,500 years. Slow, millennial-scale ventilation of Southern Ocean CO2-rich,
deep-ocean water masses is thought to have been fundamental to the rise in
atmospheric CO2 associated with the glacial termination, given the strong
covariance of CO2 levels and Antarctic temperatures. Our data establish a
contribution from an abrupt, centennial-scale mode of CO2 variability that is not
directly related to Antarctic temperature. We suggest that processes operating on
centennial timescales, probably involving the Atlantic meridional overturning
circulation, seem to be influencing global carbon-cycle dynamics and are at
present not widely considered in Earth system models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13799 
PMID: 25355363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):612-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13817.

Stochastic transport through carbon nanotubes in lipid bilayers and live cell
membranes.

Geng J(1), Kim K(2), Zhang J(3), Escalada A(4), Tunuguntla R(5), Comolli LR(6),
Allen FI(7), Shnyrova AV(4), Cho KR(8), Munoz D(8), Wang YM(9), Grigoropoulos
CP(10), Ajo-Franklin CM(11), Frolov VA(12), Noy A(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Biology and Biotechnology Division, Physical and Life Sciences Directorate,
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA [2]
School of Natural Sciences, University of California, Merced, California 95340,
USA [3] The Molecular Foundry, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(2)1] Biology and Biotechnology Division, Physical and Life Sciences Directorate,
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA [2] The 
Molecular Foundry, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [3] Mechanical Engineering Department, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(3)School of Natural Sciences, University of California, Merced, California
95340, USA.
(4)Biophysics Unit (CSIC, UPV/EHU) and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, University of the Basque Country, 48940 Leioa, Spain.
(5)1] Biology and Biotechnology Division, Physical and Life Sciences Directorate,
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA [2] The 
Molecular Foundry, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.
(6)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(7)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California, 
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Materials Sciences Division, Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] National Center
for Electron Microscopy, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(8)Biology and Biotechnology Division, Physical and Life Sciences Directorate,
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA.
(9)Materials Science Division, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore,
California 94550, USA.
(10)Mechanical Engineering Department, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(11)1] The Molecular Foundry, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Materials Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Physical Biosciences Division,
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(12)1] Biophysics Unit (CSIC, UPV/EHU) and Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, University of the Basque Country, 48940 Leioa, Spain [2]
Ikerbasque, Basque Foundation for Science, 48011 Bilbao, Spain.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2014 Dec;11(12):1194.

There is much interest in developing synthetic analogues of biological membrane
channels with high efficiency and exquisite selectivity for transporting ions and
molecules. Bottom-up and top-down methods can produce nanopores of a size
comparable to that of endogenous protein channels, but replicating their affinity
and transport properties remains challenging. In principle, carbon nanotubes
(CNTs) should be an ideal membrane channel platform: they exhibit excellent
transport properties and their narrow hydrophobic inner pores mimic structural
motifs typical of biological channels. Moreover, simulations predict that CNTs
with a length comparable to the thickness of a lipid bilayer membrane can
self-insert into the membrane. Functionalized CNTs have indeed been found to
penetrate lipid membranes and cell walls, and short tubes have been forced into
membranes to create sensors, yet membrane transport applications of short CNTs
remain underexplored. Here we show that short CNTs spontaneously insert into
lipid bilayers and live cell membranes to form channels that exhibit a unitary
conductance of 70-100 picosiemens under physiological conditions. Despite their
structural simplicity, these 'CNT porins' transport water, protons, small ions
and DNA, stochastically switch between metastable conductance substates, and
display characteristic macromolecule-induced ionic current blockades. We also
show that local channel and membrane charges can control the conductance and ion 
selectivity of the CNT porins, thereby establishing these nanopores as a
promising biomimetic platform for developing cell interfaces, studying transport 
in biological channels, and creating stochastic sensors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13817 
PMID: 25355362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13831.

Room-temperature magnetic order on zigzag edges of narrow graphene nanoribbons.

Magda GZ(1), Jin X(2), Hagymási I(3), Vancsó P(1), Osváth Z(1), Nemes-Incze P(1),
Hwang C(2), Biró LP(1), Tapasztó L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre for Natural Sciences, Institute of Technical Physics and
Materials Science, Nanotechnology Department, 2D Nanoelectronics "Lendület"
Research Group, Budapest 1121, Hungary.
(2)Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science, Center for Nanometrology,
Daejeon 305-340, South Korea.
(3)1] Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Institute of Solid State Physics and
Optics, Strongly Correlated Systems "Lendület" Research Group, Budapest 1121,
Hungary [2] Department of Theoretical Physics, University of Szeged, Szeged 6720,
Hungary.

The possibility that non-magnetic materials such as carbon could exhibit a novel 
type of s-p electron magnetism has attracted much attention over the years, not
least because such magnetic order is predicted to be stable at high temperatures.
It has been demonstrated that atomic-scale structural defects of graphene can
host unpaired spins, but it remains unclear under what conditions long-range
magnetic order can emerge from such defect-bound magnetic moments. Here we
propose that, in contrast to random defect distributions, atomic-scale
engineering of graphene edges with specific crystallographic
orientation--comprising edge atoms from only one sub-lattice of the bipartite
graphene lattice--can give rise to a robust magnetic order. We use a
nanofabrication technique based on scanning tunnelling microscopy to define
graphene nanoribbons with nanometre precision and well-defined crystallographic
edge orientations. Although so-called 'armchair' ribbons display quantum
confinement gaps, ribbons with the 'zigzag' edge structure that are narrower than
7 nanometres exhibit an electronic bandgap of about 0.2-0.3 electronvolts, which 
can be identified as a signature of interaction-induced spin ordering along their
edges. Moreover, upon increasing the ribbon width, a semiconductor-to-metal
transition is revealed, indicating the switching of the magnetic coupling between
opposite ribbon edges from the antiferromagnetic to the ferromagnetic
configuration. We found that the magnetic order on graphene edges of controlled
zigzag orientation can be stable even at room temperature, raising hopes of
graphene-based spintronic devices operating under ambient conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13831 
PMID: 25355361 


228. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):603-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13821.

Quantum tomography of an electron.

Jullien T(1), Roulleau P(1), Roche B(1), Cavanna A(2), Jin Y(2), Glattli DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Service de Physique de l'Etat Condensé, IRAMIS/DSM (CNRS URA 2464), CEA
Saclay, F-91191 Gif-sur-Yvette, France.
(2)CNRS, Laboratoire de Photonique et de Nanostructures, Route de Nozay, 91460
Marcoussis, France.

The complete knowledge of a quantum state allows the prediction of the
probability of all possible measurement outcomes, a crucial step in quantum
mechanics. It can be provided by tomographic methods which have been applied to
atomic, molecular, spin and photonic states. For optical or microwave photons,
standard tomography is obtained by mixing the unknown state with a
large-amplitude coherent photon field. However, for fermions such as electrons in
condensed matter, this approach is not applicable because fermionic fields are
limited to small amplitudes (at most one particle per state), and so far no
determination of an electron wavefunction has been made. Recent proposals
involving quantum conductors suggest that the wavefunction can be obtained by
measuring the time-dependent current of electronic wave interferometers or the
current noise of electronic Hanbury-Brown/Twiss interferometers. Here we show
that such measurements are possible despite the extreme noise sensitivity
required, and present the reconstructed wavefunction quasi-probability, or Wigner
distribution function, of single electrons injected into a ballistic conductor.
Many identical electrons are prepared in well-controlled quantum states called
levitons by repeatedly applying Lorentzian voltage pulses to a contact on the
conductor. After passing through an electron beam splitter, the levitons are
mixed with a weak-amplitude fermionic field formed by a coherent superposition of
electron-hole pairs generated by a small alternating current with a frequency
that is a multiple of the voltage pulse frequency. Antibunching of the electrons 
and holes with the levitons at the beam splitter changes the leviton partition
statistics, and the noise variations provide the energy density matrix elements
of the levitons. This demonstration of quantum tomography makes the developing
field of electron quantum optics with ballistic conductors a new test-bed for
quantum information with fermions. These results may find direct application in
probing the entanglement of electron flying quantum bits, electron decoherence
and electron interactions. They could also be applied to cold fermionic (or
spin-1/2) atoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13821 
PMID: 25355360 


229. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):600-2. doi: 10.1038/nature13822.

Possible planet formation in the young, low-mass, multiple stellar system GG Tau 
A.

Dutrey A(1), Di Folco E(1), Guilloteau S(1), Boehler Y(2), Bary J(3), Beck T(4), 
Beust H(5), Chapillon E(6), Gueth F(7), Huré JM(1), Pierens A(1), Piétu V(7),
Simon M(8), Tang YW(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Université de Bordeaux, LAB, UMR 5804, F-33270 Floirac, France [2] Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), LAB, UMR 5804, F-33270 Floirac,
France.
(2)Centro de Radioastronomia y Astrofisica (CRyA), University of Mexico, Apartado
Postal 3-72, 58089 Morelia, Michoacan, Mexico.
(3)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Colgate University, 13 Oak Drive,
Hamilton, New York 13346, USA.
(4)Space Telescope Science Institute, 3700 San Martin Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 
21218, USA.
(5)Institut de Planetologie et d'Astrophysique de Grenoble (IPAG), UMR 5274, BP
53, F-38041 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.
(6)1] Université de Bordeaux, LAB, UMR 5804, F-33270 Floirac, France [2] Institut
de RadioAstronomie Millimetrique (IRAM), 300 rue de la Piscine, F-38046 Saint
Martin d'Hères, France.
(7)Institut de RadioAstronomie Millimetrique (IRAM), 300 rue de la Piscine,
F-38046 Saint Martin d'Hères, France.
(8)Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York 11794-3800, USA.
(9)Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics, PO Box 23-141, Taipei
106, Taiwan.

The formation of planets around binary stars may be more difficult than around
single stars. In a close binary star (with a separation of less than a hundred
astronomical units), theory predicts the presence of circumstellar disks around
each star, and an outer circumbinary disk surrounding a gravitationally cleared
inner cavity around the stars. Given that the inner disks are depleted by
accretion onto the stars on timescales of a few thousand years, any replenishing 
material must be transferred from the outer reservoir to fuel planet formation
(which occurs on timescales of about one million years). Gas flowing through disk
cavities has been detected in single star systems. A circumbinary disk was
discovered around the young low-mass binary system GG Tau A (ref. 7), which has
recently been shown to be a hierarchical triple system. It has one large inner
disk around the single star, GG Tau Aa, and shows small amounts of shocked
hydrogen gas residing within the central cavity, but other than a single weak
detection, the distribution of cold gas in this cavity or in any other binary or 
multiple star system has not hitherto been determined. Here we report imaging of 
gas fragments emitting radiation characteristic of carbon monoxide within the GG 
Tau A cavity. From the kinematics we conclude that the flow appears capable of
sustaining the inner disk (around GG Tau Aa) beyond the accretion lifetime,
leaving time for planet formation to occur there. These results show the
complexity of planet formation around multiple stars and confirm the general
picture predicted by numerical simulations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13822 
PMID: 25355359 


230. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):591-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13890.

Crystal structure of the PRC1 ubiquitylation module bound to the nucleosome.

McGinty RK(1), Henrici RC(2), Tan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Eukaryotic Gene Regulation, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(2)1] Center for Eukaryotic Gene Regulation, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Schreyer Honors College, The Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):572-3.

The Polycomb group of epigenetic enzymes represses expression of developmentally 
regulated genes in many eukaryotes. This group includes the Polycomb repressive
complex 1 (PRC1), which ubiquitylates nucleosomal histone H2A Lys 119 using its
E3 ubiquitin ligase subunits, Ring1B and Bmi1, together with an E2
ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, UbcH5c. However, the molecular mechanism of
nucleosome substrate recognition by PRC1 or other chromatin enzymes is unclear.
Here we present the crystal structure of the human Ring1B-Bmi1-UbcH5c E3-E2
complex (the PRC1 ubiquitylation module) bound to its nucleosome core particle
substrate. The structure shows how a chromatin enzyme achieves substrate
specificity by interacting with several nucleosome surfaces spatially distinct
from the site of catalysis. Our structure further reveals an unexpected role for 
the ubiquitin E2 enzyme in substrate recognition, and provides insight into how
the related histone H2A E3 ligase, BRCA1, interacts with and ubiquitylates the
nucleosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13890 
PMCID: PMC4215650
PMID: 25355358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):597-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13850. Epub 2014 Oct 22.

Spatially resolved magnetic field structure in the disk of a T Tauri star.

Stephens IW(1), Looney LW(2), Kwon W(3), Fernández-López M(4), Hughes AM(5),
Mundy LG(6), Crutcher RM(2), Li ZY(7), Rao R(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Astrophysical Research, Boston University, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Astronomy, University of Illinois,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(2)Department of Astronomy, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(3)SRON Netherlands Institute for Space Research, Landleven 12, 9747 AD
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)1] Department of Astronomy, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 61801,
USA [2] Instituto Argentino de Radioastronomía, CCT-La Plata (CONICET), CC5, 1894
Villa Elisa, Argentina.
(5)Van Vleck Observatory, Astronomy Department, Wesleyan University, Middletown, 
Connecticut 06459, USA.
(6)Astronomy Department and Laboratory for Millimeter-wave Astronomy, University 
of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.
(7)Astronomy Department, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22904,
USA.
(8)Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Academia Sinica, Hilo, Hawaii 96720, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):571-2.

Magnetic fields in accretion disks play a dominant part during the star formation
process but have hitherto been observationally poorly constrained. Field
strengths have been inferred on T Tauri stars and possibly in the innermost part 
of their accretion disks, but the strength and morphology of the field in the
bulk of a disk have not been observed. Spatially unresolved measurements of
polarized emission (arising from elongated dust grains aligned perpendicularly to
the field) imply average fields aligned with the disks. Theoretically, the fields
are expected to be largely toroidal, poloidal or a mixture of the two, which
imply different mechanisms for transporting angular momentum in the disks of
actively accreting young stars such as HL Tau (ref. 11). Here we report resolved 
measurements of the polarized 1.25-millimetre continuum emission from the disk of
HL Tau. The magnetic field on a scale of 80 astronomical units is coincident with
the major axis (about 210 astronomical units long) of the disk. From this we
conclude that the magnetic field inside the disk at this scale cannot be
dominated by a vertical component, though a purely toroidal field also does not
fit the data well. The unexpected morphology suggests that the role of the
magnetic field in the accretion of a T Tauri star is more complex than our
current theoretical understanding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13850 
PMID: 25337883 


232. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):585-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13839. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Mesenchymal-endothelial transition contributes to cardiac neovascularization.

Ubil E(1), Duan J(2), Pillai IC(2), Rosa-Garrido M(3), Wu Y(4), Bargiacchi F(5), 
Lu Y(2), Stanbouly S(2), Huang J(2), Rojas M(6), Vondriska TM(7), Stefani E(8),
Deb A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology &Physiology, School of Medicine, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(2)1] Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2]
Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, David Geffen School of Medicine, University
of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [3] Eli and Edythe Broad
Institute of Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [4] Department of Molecular, Cell 
and Developmental Biology, College of Letters and Sciences, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [5] Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer
Center, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [6]
Molecular Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA.
(3)1] Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2]
Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, David Geffen School of Medicine, University
of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [3] Division of Molecular
Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, David Geffen School of Medicine,
University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [4] Department of
Physiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(4)Division of Molecular Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, David Geffen
School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, McAllister Heart Institute, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(7)1] Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2]
Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, David Geffen School of Medicine, University
of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [3] Molecular Biology
Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [4]
Division of Molecular Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, David Geffen School
of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [5]
Department of Physiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(8)1] Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, David Geffen School of Medicine,
University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] Division of
Molecular Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, David Geffen School of
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [3]
Department of Physiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):575-6.

Endothelial cells contribute to a subset of cardiac fibroblasts by undergoing
endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition, but whether cardiac fibroblasts can adopt 
an endothelial cell fate and directly contribute to neovascularization after
cardiac injury is not known. Here, using genetic fate map techniques, we
demonstrate that cardiac fibroblasts rapidly adopt an endothelial-cell-like
phenotype after acute ischaemic cardiac injury. Fibroblast-derived endothelial
cells exhibit anatomical and functional characteristics of native endothelial
cells. We show that the transcription factor p53 regulates such a switch in
cardiac fibroblast fate. Loss of p53 in cardiac fibroblasts severely decreases
the formation of fibroblast-derived endothelial cells, reduces post-infarct
vascular density and worsens cardiac function. Conversely, stimulation of the p53
pathway in cardiac fibroblasts augments mesenchymal-to-endothelial transition,
enhances vascularity and improves cardiac function. These observations
demonstrate that mesenchymal-to-endothelial transition contributes to
neovascularization of the injured heart and represents a potential therapeutic
target for enhancing cardiac repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13839 
PMCID: PMC4214889
PMID: 25317562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):638-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13823. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Rapid fucosylation of intestinal epithelium sustains host-commensal symbiosis in 
sickness.

Pickard JM(1), Maurice CF(2), Kinnebrew MA(3), Abt MC(3), Schenten D(4),
Golovkina TV(5), Bogatyrev SR(6), Ismagilov RF(6), Pamer EG(3), Turnbaugh PJ(2), 
Chervonsky AV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Committee on Immunology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(2)FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA.
(3)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)The University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA.
(6)California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):576-7.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Nov;14(11):715.

Systemic infection induces conserved physiological responses that include both
resistance and 'tolerance of infection' mechanisms. Temporary anorexia associated
with an infection is often beneficial, reallocating energy from food foraging
towards resistance to infection or depriving pathogens of nutrients. However, it 
imposes a stress on intestinal commensals, as they also experience reduced
substrate availability; this affects host fitness owing to the loss of caloric
intake and colonization resistance (protection from additional infections). We
hypothesized that the host might utilize internal resources to support the gut
microbiota during the acute phase of the disease. Here we show that systemic
exposure to Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands causes rapid α(1,2)-fucosylation of 
small intestine epithelial cells (IECs) in mice, which requires the sensing of
TLR agonists, as well as the production of interleukin (IL)-23 by dendritic
cells, activation of innate lymphoid cells and expression of fucosyltransferase 2
(Fut2) by IL-22-stimulated IECs. Fucosylated proteins are shed into the lumen and
fucose is liberated and metabolized by the gut microbiota, as shown by reporter
bacteria and community-wide analysis of microbial gene expression. Fucose affects
the expression of microbial metabolic pathways and reduces the expression of
bacterial virulence genes. It also improves host tolerance of the mild pathogen
Citrobacter rodentium. Thus, rapid IEC fucosylation appears to be a protective
mechanism that utilizes the host's resources to maintain host-microbial
interactions during pathogen-induced stress.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13823 
PMCID: PMC4214913
PMID: 25274297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):579-84. doi: 10.1038/nature13718. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Three new Jurassic euharamiyidan species reinforce early divergence of mammals.

Bi S(1), Wang Y(2), Guan J(3), Sheng X(4), Meng J(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins of Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100044, China [2] Department of Biology, Indiana
University of Pennsylvania, Indiana, Pennsylvania 15705, USA.
(2)Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100044, China.
(3)Beijing Natural History Museum, 126 Tianqiao Street, Dongcheng District,
Beijing 100050, China.
(4)Paleontological Museum of Liaoning, Shenyang Normal University, Shenyang,
Liaoning 110034, China.
(5)Division of Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park
West at 79th Street, New York, New York 10024, USA.

The phylogeny of Allotheria, including Multituberculata and Haramiyida, remains
unsolved and has generated contentious views on the origin and earliest evolution
of mammals. Here we report three new species of a new clade, Euharamiyida, based 
on six well-preserved fossils from the Jurassic period of China. These fossils
reveal many craniodental and postcranial features of euharamiyidans and clarify
several ambiguous structures that are currently the topic of debate. Our
phylogenetic analyses recognize Euharamiyida as the sister group of
Multituberculata, and place Allotheria within the Mammalia. The phylogeny
suggests that allotherian mammals evolved from a Late Triassic (approximately 208
million years ago) Haramiyavia-like ancestor and diversified into euharamiyidans 
and multituberculates with a cosmopolitan distribution, implying homologous
acquisition of many craniodental and postcranial features in the two groups. Our 
findings also favour a Late Triassic origin of mammals in Laurasia and two
independent detachment events of the middle ear bones during mammalian evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13718 
PMID: 25209669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):624-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13620. Epub 2014 Sep 7.

Non-equivalent contributions of maternal and paternal genomes to early plant
embryogenesis.

Del Toro-De León G(1), García-Aguilar M(1), Gillmor CS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio Nacional de Genómica para la Biodiversidad (Langebio), Unidad de
Genómica Avanzada, Centro de Investigación y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto 
Politécnico Nacional (CINVESTAV-IPN), Irapuato, Guanajuato 36821, México.

Zygotic genome activation in metazoans typically occurs several hours to a day
after fertilization, and thus maternal RNAs and proteins drive early animal
embryo development. In plants, despite several molecular studies of
post-fertilization transcriptional activation, the timing of zygotic genome
activation remains a matter of debate. For example, two recent reports that used 
different hybrid ecotype combinations for RNA sequence profiling of early
Arabidopsis embryo transcriptomes came to divergent conclusions. One identified
paternal contributions that varied by gene, but with overall maternal dominance, 
while the other found that the maternal and paternal genomes are
transcriptionally equivalent. Here we assess paternal gene activation
functionally in an isogenic background, by performing a large-scale genetic
analysis of 49 EMBRYO DEFECTIVE genes and testing the ability of wild-type
paternal alleles to complement phenotypes conditioned by mutant maternal alleles.
Our results demonstrate that wild-type paternal alleles for nine of these genes
are completely functional 2 days after pollination, with the remaining 40 genes
showing partial activity beginning at 2, 3 or 5 days after pollination. Using our
functional assay, we also demonstrate that different hybrid combinations exhibit 
significant variation in paternal allele activation, reconciling the apparently
contradictory results of previous transcriptional studies. The variation in
timing of gene function that we observe confirms that paternal genome activation 
does not occur in one early discrete step, provides large-scale functional
evidence that maternal and paternal genomes make non-equivalent contributions to 
early plant embryogenesis, and uncovers an unexpectedly profound effect of hybrid
genetic backgrounds on paternal gene activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13620 
PMID: 25209660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):633-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13637. Epub 2014 Aug 31.

Conditional tolerance of temperate phages via transcription-dependent CRISPR-Cas 
targeting.

Goldberg GW(1), Jiang W(1), Bikard D(2), Marraffini LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Bacteriology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York
10065, USA.
(2)1] Laboratory of Bacteriology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 
10065, USA [2] Synthetic Biology Group, Institut Pasteur, 28 Rue du Dr. Roux,
75015 Paris, France.

A fundamental feature of immune systems is the ability to distinguish pathogenic 
from self and commensal elements, and to attack the former but tolerate the
latter. Prokaryotic CRISPR-Cas immune systems defend against phage infection by
using Cas nucleases and small RNA guides that specify one or more target sites
for cleavage of the viral genome. Temperate phages include viruses that can
integrate into the bacterial chromosome, and they can carry genes that provide a 
fitness advantage to the lysogenic host. However, CRISPR-Cas targeting that
relies strictly on DNA sequence recognition provides indiscriminate immunity both
to lytic and lysogenic infection by temperate phages-compromising the genetic
stability of these potentially beneficial elements altogether. Here we show that 
the Staphylococcus epidermidis CRISPR-Cas system can prevent lytic infection but 
tolerate lysogenization by temperate phages. Conditional tolerance is achieved
through transcription-dependent DNA targeting, and ensures that targeting is
resumed upon induction of the prophage lytic cycle. Our results provide evidence 
for the functional divergence of CRISPR-Cas systems and highlight the importance 
of targeting mechanism diversity. In addition, they extend the concept of
'tolerance to non-self' to the prokaryotic branch of adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13637 
PMCID: PMC4214910
PMID: 25174707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):646-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13660. Epub 2014 Aug 24.

Synergistic blockade of mitotic exit by two chemical inhibitors of the APC/C.

Sackton KL(1), Dimova N(1), Zeng X(1), Tian W(2), Zhang M(3), Sackton TB(4),
Meaders J(3), Pfaff KL(5), Sigoillot F(5), Yu H(6), Luo X(7), King RW(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, 6001 Forest Park Road, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] Key Laboratory of
Molecular Biophysics of the Ministry of Education, College of Science and
Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China
(W.T.); Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, 7
Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA (K.L.P.); Novartis
Institutes for Biomedical Research, 250 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA (F.S.). [3].
(3)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 26
Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(5)1] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of
the Ministry of Education, College of Science and Technology, Huazhong University
of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China (W.T.); Department of Stem Cell
and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, 7 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA (K.L.P.); Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research,
250 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA (F.S.).
(6)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, 6001 Forest Park Road, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, 4000 Jones Bridge Road, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
6001 Forest Park Road, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Protein machines are multi-subunit protein complexes that orchestrate highly
regulated biochemical tasks. An example is the anaphase-promoting
complex/cyclosome (APC/C), a 13-subunit ubiquitin ligase that initiates the
metaphase-anaphase transition and mitotic exit by targeting proteins such as
securin and cyclin B1 for ubiquitin-dependent destruction by the proteasome.
Because blocking mitotic exit is an effective approach for inducing tumour cell
death, the APC/C represents a potential novel target for cancer therapy. APC/C
activation in mitosis requires binding of Cdc20 (ref. 5), which forms a
co-receptor with the APC/C to recognize substrates containing a destruction box
(D-box). Here we demonstrate that we can synergistically inhibit APC/C-dependent 
proteolysis and mitotic exit by simultaneously disrupting two protein-protein
interactions within the APC/C-Cdc20-substrate ternary complex. We identify a
small molecule, called apcin (APC inhibitor), which binds to Cdc20 and
competitively inhibits the ubiquitylation of D-box-containing substrates.
Analysis of the crystal structure of the apcin-Cdc20 complex suggests that apcin 
occupies the D-box-binding pocket on the side face of the WD40-domain. The
ability of apcin to block mitotic exit is synergistically amplified by
co-addition of tosyl-l-arginine methyl ester, a small molecule that blocks the
APC/C-Cdc20 interaction. This work suggests that simultaneous disruption of
multiple, weak protein-protein interactions is an effective approach for
inactivating a protein machine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13660 
PMCID: PMC4214887
PMID: 25156254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):650-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13671. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Transcriptional interference by antisense RNA is required for circadian clock
function.

Xue Z(1), Ye Q(1), Anson SR(2), Yang J(3), Xiao G(3), Kowbel D(4), Glass NL(4),
Crosthwaite SK(2), Liu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.
(3)Department of Clinical Sciences, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(4)Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

Eukaryotic circadian oscillators consist of negative feedback loops that generate
endogenous rhythmicities. Natural antisense RNAs are found in a wide range of
eukaryotic organisms. Nevertheless, the physiological importance and mode of
action of most antisense RNAs are not clear. frequency (frq) encodes a component 
of the Neurospora core circadian negative feedback loop, which was thought to
generate sustained rhythmicity. Transcription of qrf, the long non-coding frq
antisense RNA, is induced by light, and its level oscillates in antiphase to frq 
sense RNA. Here we show that qrf transcription is regulated by both
light-dependent and light-independent mechanisms. Light-dependent qrf
transcription represses frq expression and regulates clock resetting.
Light-independent qrf expression, on the other hand, is required for circadian
rhythmicity. frq transcription also inhibits qrf expression and drives the
antiphasic rhythm of qrf transcripts. The mutual inhibition of frq and qrf
transcription thus forms a double negative feedback loop that is interlocked with
the core feedback loop. Genetic and mathematical modelling analyses indicate that
such an arrangement is required for robust and sustained circadian rhythmicity.
Moreover, our results suggest that antisense transcription inhibits sense
expression by mediating chromatin modifications and premature termination of
transcription. Taken together, our results establish antisense transcription as
an essential feature in a circadian system and shed light on the importance and
mechanism of antisense action.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13671 
PMCID: PMC4214883
PMID: 25132551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):642-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13612. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Enhanced neonatal Fc receptor function improves protection against primate SHIV
infection.

Ko SY(1), Pegu A(1), Rudicell RS(2), Yang ZY(2), Joyce MG(1), Chen X(1), Wang
K(1), Bao S(1), Kraemer TD(3), Rath T(3), Zeng M(4), Schmidt SD(1), Todd JP(1),
Penzak SR(5), Saunders KO(1), Nason MC(6), Haase AT(7), Rao SS(1), Blumberg
RS(3), Mascola JR(1), Nabel GJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Building 40, Room 4502, MSC-3005, 40
Convent Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-3005, USA.
(2)1] Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Building 40, Room 4502, MSC-3005, 40
Convent Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-3005, USA [2] Sanofi, 640 Memorial Drive,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA (R.S.R., Z.-Y.Y. and G.J.N.); Center for
Genetics of Host Defense, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323
Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75235-8505, USA (M.Z.); University of North 
Texas System College of Pharmacy, 3500 Camp Bowie Boulevard, RES-340J, Fort
Worth, Texas 76107, USA (S.R.P.).
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Brigham &Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(4)1] Department of Microbiology, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 420
Delaware Street South East, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Sanofi, 640
Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA (R.S.R., Z.-Y.Y. and G.J.N.);
Center for Genetics of Host Defense, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas 75235-8505, USA (M.Z.);
University of North Texas System College of Pharmacy, 3500 Camp Bowie Boulevard, 
RES-340J, Fort Worth, Texas 76107, USA (S.R.P.).
(5)1] Clinical Pharmacokinetics Laboratory, Pharmacy Department, Clinical Center,
National Institutes of Health, Building 10, 10 Center Drive, Bethesda, Maryland
20814, USA [2] Sanofi, 640 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA
(R.S.R., Z.-Y.Y. and G.J.N.); Center for Genetics of Host Defense, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, Texas
75235-8505, USA (M.Z.); University of North Texas System College of Pharmacy,
3500 Camp Bowie Boulevard, RES-340J, Fort Worth, Texas 76107, USA (S.R.P.).
(6)Biostatistics Research Branch, Division of Clinical Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
6700A Rockledge Drive, Room 5235, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(7)Department of Microbiology, Medical School, University of Minnesota, 420
Delaware Street South East, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.

To protect against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection, broadly
neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) must be active at the portals of viral entry in
the gastrointestinal or cervicovaginal tracts. The localization and persistence
of antibodies at these sites is influenced by the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn),
whose role in protecting against infection in vivo has not been defined. Here, we
show that a bnAb with enhanced FcRn binding has increased gut mucosal tissue
localization, which improves protection against lentiviral infection in non-human
primates. A bnAb directed to the CD4-binding site of the HIV-1 envelope (Env)
protein (denoted VRC01) was modified by site-directed mutagenesis to increase its
binding affinity for FcRn. This enhanced FcRn-binding mutant bnAb, denoted
VRC01-LS, displayed increased transcytosis across human FcRn-expressing cellular 
monolayers in vitro while retaining FcγRIIIa binding and function, including
antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity, at levels similar 
to VRC01 (the wild type). VRC01-LS had a threefold longer serum half-life than
VRC01 in non-human primates and persisted in the rectal mucosa even when it was
no longer detectable in the serum. Notably, VRC01-LS mediated protection superior
to that afforded by VRC01 against intrarectal infection with simian-human
immunodeficiency virus (SHIV). These findings suggest that modification of FcRn
binding provides a mechanism not only to increase serum half-life but also to
enhance mucosal localization that confers immune protection. Mutations that
enhance FcRn function could therefore increase the potency and durability of
passive immunization strategies to prevent HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13612 
PMCID: PMC4433741
PMID: 25119033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):628-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13611. Epub 2014 Aug 10.

Oncogene ablation-resistant pancreatic cancer cells depend on mitochondrial
function.

Viale A(1), Pettazzoni P(1), Lyssiotis CA(2), Ying H(3), Sánchez N(4), Marchesini
M(4), Carugo A(5), Green T(4), Seth S(6), Giuliani V(6), Kost-Alimova M(6),
Muller F(3), Colla S(3), Nezi L(4), Genovese G(3), Deem AK(3), Kapoor A(3), Yao
W(4), Brunetto E(7), Kang Y(8), Yuan M(9), Asara JM(9), Wang YA(3), Heffernan
TP(6), Kimmelman AC(10), Wang H(11), Fleming JB(8), Cantley LC(2), DePinho
RA(12), Draetta GF(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genomic Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cellular
Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas
77030, USA [3].
(2)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York
10065, USA.
(3)Department of Genomic Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)1] Department of Genomic Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cellular
Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(5)1] Department of Genomic Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cellular
Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas
77030, USA [3] Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of
Oncology, Milan 20139, Italy.
(6)Institute for Applied Cancer Science, The University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(7)Pathology Unit, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan 20132, Italy.
(8)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, Division of Signal Transduction, Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(11)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(12)Department of Cancer Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Oct;11(10):562.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the deadliest cancers in
western countries, with a median survival of 6 months and an extremely low
percentage of long-term surviving patients. KRAS mutations are known to be a
driver event of PDAC, but targeting mutant KRAS has proved challenging. Targeting
oncogene-driven signalling pathways is a clinically validated approach for
several devastating diseases. Still, despite marked tumour shrinkage, the
frequency of relapse indicates that a fraction of tumour cells survives shut down
of oncogenic signalling. Here we explore the role of mutant KRAS in PDAC
maintenance using a recently developed inducible mouse model of mutated Kras
(Kras(G12D), herein KRas) in a p53(LoxP/WT) background. We demonstrate that a
subpopulation of dormant tumour cells surviving oncogene ablation (surviving
cells) and responsible for tumour relapse has features of cancer stem cells and
relies on oxidative phosphorylation for survival. Transcriptomic and metabolic
analyses of surviving cells reveal prominent expression of genes governing
mitochondrial function, autophagy and lysosome activity, as well as a strong
reliance on mitochondrial respiration and a decreased dependence on glycolysis
for cellular energetics. Accordingly, surviving cells show high sensitivity to
oxidative phosphorylation inhibitors, which can inhibit tumour recurrence. Our
integrated analyses illuminate a therapeutic strategy of combined targeting of
the KRAS pathway and mitochondrial respiration to manage pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13611 
PMCID: PMC4376130
PMID: 25119024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):498-502. doi: 10.1038/nature13814.

Dendritic cells control fibroblastic reticular network tension and lymph node
expansion.

Acton SE(1), Farrugia AJ(2), Astarita JL(3), Mourão-Sá D(4), Jenkins RP(5), Nye
E(6), Hooper S(5), van Blijswijk J(4), Rogers NC(4), Snelgrove KJ(4), Rosewell
I(7), Moita LF(8), Stamp G(6), Turley SJ(9), Sahai E(5), Reis e Sousa C(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Immunobiology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 44 
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK [2] Department of Cell and
Developmental Biology, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, 
UK.
(2)1] Immunobiology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 44 
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK [2] Tumour Cell Biology Laboratory,
Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London
WC2A 3LY, UK.
(3)Department of Cancer Immunology and AIDS, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(4)Immunobiology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 44
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(5)Tumour Cell Biology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 
44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(6)Experimental Histopathology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(7)Transgenics Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, Clare
Hall Laboratories, South Mimms, Potters Bar, Hertfordshire EN6 3LD, UK.
(8)1] Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência, Rua da Quinta Grande 6, 2780-156 Oeiras,
Portugal [2] Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade
de Lisboa, 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal.
(9)Department of Cancer Immunology, Genentech, One DNA Way, South San Francisco, 
California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):441-2.

After immunogenic challenge, infiltrating and dividing lymphocytes markedly
increase lymph node cellularity, leading to organ expansion. Here we report that 
the physical elasticity of lymph nodes is maintained in part by podoplanin (PDPN)
signalling in stromal fibroblastic reticular cells (FRCs) and its modulation by
CLEC-2 expressed on dendritic cells. We show in mouse cells that PDPN induces
actomyosin contractility in FRCs via activation of RhoA/C and downstream
Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK). Engagement by CLEC-2 causes PDPN clustering
and rapidly uncouples PDPN from RhoA/C activation, relaxing the actomyosin
cytoskeleton and permitting FRC stretching. Notably, administration of CLEC-2
protein to immunized mice augments lymph node expansion. In contrast, lymph node 
expansion is significantly constrained in mice selectively lacking CLEC-2
expression in dendritic cells. Thus, the same dendritic cells that initiate
immunity by presenting antigens to T lymphocytes also initiate remodelling of
lymph nodes by delivering CLEC-2 to FRCs. CLEC-2 modulation of PDPN signalling
permits FRC network stretching and allows for the rapid lymph node
expansion--driven by lymphocyte influx and proliferation--that is the critical
hallmark of adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13814 
PMCID: PMC4235005
PMID: 25341788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):478-81. doi: 10.1038/nature13798.

Methane dynamics regulated by microbial community response to permafrost thaw.

McCalley CK(1), Woodcroft BJ(2), Hodgkins SB(3), Wehr RA(1), Kim EH(4), Mondav
R(2), Crill PM(5), Chanton JP(3), Rich VI(4), Tyson GW(2), Saleska SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA.
(2)Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, School of Chemistry and Molecular
Biosciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane 4072, Queensland, Australia.
(3)Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Science, Florida State University, 
Tallahassee, Florida 32306, USA.
(4)Department of Soil, Water and Environmental Science, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(5)Department of Geological Sciences, Stockholm University, Stockholm 106 91,
Sweden.

Permafrost contains about 50% of the global soil carbon. It is thought that the
thawing of permafrost can lead to a loss of soil carbon in the form of methane
and carbon dioxide emissions. The magnitude of the resulting positive climate
feedback of such greenhouse gas emissions is still unknown and may to a large
extent depend on the poorly understood role of microbial community composition in
regulating the metabolic processes that drive such ecosystem-scale greenhouse gas
fluxes. Here we show that changes in vegetation and increasing methane emissions 
with permafrost thaw are associated with a switch from hydrogenotrophic to partly
acetoclastic methanogenesis, resulting in a large shift in the δ(13)C signature
(10-15‰) of emitted methane. We used a natural landscape gradient of permafrost
thaw in northern Sweden as a model to investigate the role of microbial
communities in regulating methane cycling, and to test whether a knowledge of
community dynamics could improve predictions of carbon emissions under loss of
permafrost. Abundance of the methanogen Candidatus 'Methanoflorens
stordalenmirensis' is a key predictor of the shifts in methane isotopes, which in
turn predicts the proportions of carbon emitted as methane and as carbon dioxide,
an important factor for simulating the climate feedback associated with
permafrost thaw in global models. By showing that the abundance of key microbial 
lineages can be used to predict atmospherically relevant patterns in methane
isotopes and the proportion of carbon metabolized to methane during permafrost
thaw, we establish a basis for scaling changing microbial communities to
ecosystem isotope dynamics. Our findings indicate that microbial ecology may be
important in ecosystem-scale responses to global change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13798 
PMID: 25341787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):475-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13795.

Identification of an iridium-containing compound with a formal oxidation state of
IX.

Wang G(1), Zhou M(1), Goettel JT(2), Schrobilgen GJ(2), Su J(3), Li J(3),
Schlöder T(4), Riedel S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials, Department 
of Chemistry, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Molecular Catalysts and Innovative
Materials, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, China.
(2)Department of Chemistry, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton,
Ontario L8S 4M1, Canada.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Key Laboratory of Organic Optoelectronics and
Molecular Engineering of Ministry of Education, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.
(4)Institut für Anorganische und Analytische Chemie, Albert-Ludwigs Universität
Freiburg, Albertstrasse 21, D-79104 Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany.
(5)1] Institut für Anorganische und Analytische Chemie, Albert-Ludwigs
Universität Freiburg, Albertstrasse 21, D-79104 Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany [2]
Institut für Chemie und Biochemie - Anorganische Chemie, Freie Universität
Berlin, Fabeckstrasse 34-36, D-14195 Berlin, Germany.

One of the most important classifications in chemistry and within the periodic
table is the concept of formal oxidation states. The preparation and
characterization of compounds containing elements with unusual oxidation states
is of great interest to chemists. The highest experimentally known formal
oxidation state of any chemical element is at present VIII, although higher
oxidation states have been postulated. Compounds with oxidation state VIII
include several xenon compounds (for example XeO4 and XeO3F2) and the
well-characterized species RuO4 and OsO4 (refs 2-4). Iridium, which has nine
valence electrons, is predicted to have the greatest chance of being oxidized
beyond the VIII oxidation state. In recent matrix-isolation experiments, the IrO4
molecule was characterized as an isolated molecule in rare-gas matrices. The
valence electron configuration of iridium in IrO4 is 5d(1), with a formal
oxidation state of VIII. Removal of the remaining d electron from IrO4 would lead
to the iridium tetroxide cation ([IrO4](+)), which was recently predicted to be
stable and in which iridium is in a formal oxidation state of IX. There has been 
some speculation about the formation of [IrO4](+) species, but these experimental
observations have not been structurally confirmed. Here we report the formation
of [IrO4](+) and its identification by infrared photodissociation spectroscopy.
Quantum-chemical calculations were carried out at the highest level of theory
that is available today, and predict that the iridium tetroxide cation, with a
Td-symmetrical structure and a d(0) electron configuration, is the most stable of
all possible [IrO4](+) isomers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13795 
PMID: 25341786 


244. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):465-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13815.

Characterizing and predicting the magnetic environment leading to solar
eruptions.

Amari T(1), Canou A(1), Aly JJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Physique Théorique, Ecole Polytechnique, CNRS, F-91128 Palaiseau
Cedex, France.
(2)AIM, Unité Mixte de Recherche CEA, CNRS, Université Paris VII, UMR 7158,
Centre d'Etudes de Saclay, F-91191 Gif sur Yvette Cedex, France.

The physical mechanism responsible for coronal mass ejections has been uncertain 
for many years, in large part because of the difficulty of knowing the
three-dimensional magnetic field in the low corona. Two possible models have
emerged. In the first, a twisted flux rope moves out of equilibrium or becomes
unstable, and the subsequent reconnection then powers the ejection. In the
second, a new flux rope forms as a result of the reconnection of the magnetic
lines of an arcade (a group of arches of field lines) during the eruption itself.
Observational support for both mechanisms has been claimed. Here we report
modelling which demonstrates that twisted flux ropes lead to the ejection, in
support of the first model. After seeing a coronal mass ejection, we use the
observed photospheric magnetic field in that region from four days earlier as a
boundary condition to determine the magnetic field configuration. The field
evolves slowly before the eruption, such that it can be treated effectively as a 
static solution. We find that on the fourth day a flux rope forms and grows
(increasing its free energy). This solution then becomes the initial condition as
we let the model evolve dynamically under conditions driven by photospheric
changes (such as flux cancellation). When the magnetic energy stored in the
configuration is too high, no equilibrium is possible and the flux rope is
'squeezed' upwards. The subsequent reconnection drives a mass ejection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13815 
PMID: 25341785 


245. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):462-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13849.

Two families of exocomets in the β Pictoris system.

Kiefer F(1), des Etangs AL(2), Boissier J(3), Vidal-Madjar A(2), Beust H(4),
Lagrange AM(4), Hébrard G(2), Ferlet R(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), Unité Mixte de
Recherche (UMR) 7095, Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris, 98 bis boulevard Arago, 
F-75014 Paris, France [2] Université Pierre et Marie Curie, UMR 7095, Institut
d'Astrophysique de Paris, 98 bis boulevard Arago, F-75014 Paris, France [3]
School of Physics and Astronomy, Raymond and Beverly Sackler Faculty of Exact
Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
(2)1] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), Unité Mixte de
Recherche (UMR) 7095, Institut d'Astrophysique de Paris, 98 bis boulevard Arago, 
F-75014 Paris, France [2] Université Pierre et Marie Curie, UMR 7095, Institut
d'Astrophysique de Paris, 98 bis boulevard Arago, F-75014 Paris, France.
(3)Institut de Radioastronomie Millimétrique, 300 rue de la Piscine, 38406 Saint 
Martin d'Hères, France.
(4)Université Joseph Fourier-Grenoble 1/CNRS- Institut National des Sciences de
l'Univers, Institut de Planétologie et d'Astrophysique de Grenoble, UMR 5274, 414
Rue de la Piscine, 38400 St-Martin d'Hères, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):440-1.

The young planetary system surrounding the star β Pictoris harbours active minor 
bodies. These asteroids and comets produce a large amount of dust and gas through
collisions and evaporation, as happened early in the history of our Solar System.
Spectroscopic observations of β Pictoris reveal a high rate of transits of small 
evaporating bodies, that is, exocomets. Here we report an analysis of more than
1,000 archival spectra gathered between 2003 and 2011, which provides a sample of
about 6,000 variable absorption signatures arising from exocomets transiting the 
disk of the parent star. Statistical analysis of the observed properties of these
exocomets allows us to identify two populations with different physical
properties. One family consists of exocomets producing shallow absorption lines, 
which can be attributed to old exhausted (that is, strongly depleted in
volatiles) comets trapped in a mean motion resonance with a massive planet.
Another family consists of exocomets producing deep absorption lines, which may
be related to the recent fragmentation of one or a few parent bodies. Our results
show that the evaporating bodies observed for decades in the β Pictoris system
are analogous to the comets in our own Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13849 
PMID: 25341784 


246. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):445-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13810.

Genome sequence of a 45,000-year-old modern human from western Siberia.

Fu Q(1), Li H(2), Moorjani P(3), Jay F(4), Slepchenko SM(5), Bondarev AA(6),
Johnson PL(7), Aximu-Petri A(8), Prüfer K(8), de Filippo C(8), Meyer M(8), Zwyns 
N(9), Salazar-García DC(10), Kuzmin YV(11), Keates SG(11), Kosintsev PA(12),
Razhev DI(5), Richards MP(13), Peristov NV(14), Lachmann M(15), Douka K(16),
Higham TF(16), Slatkin M(4), Hublin JJ(17), Reich D(18), Kelso J(8), Viola
TB(19), Pääbo S(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins of Chinese Academy
of Sciences, IVPP, CAS, Beijing 100044, China [2] Department of Evolutionary
Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig,
Germany.
(2)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027,
USA.
(4)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-3140, USA.
(5)Institute for Problems of the Development of the North, Siberian Branch of the
Russian Academy of Sciences, Tyumen 625026, Russia.
(6)Expert Criminalistics Center, Omsk Division of the Ministry of Internal
Affairs, Omsk 644007, Russia.
(7)Department of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(8)Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(9)1] Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Department of Anthropology, University
of California, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(10)1] Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Department of Archaeology, University 
of Cape Town, Cape Town 7701, South Africa [3] Departament de Prehistòria i
Arqueologia, Universitat de València, Valencia 46010, Spain [4] Research Group on
Plant Foods in Hominin Dietary Ecology, Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(11)Institute of Geology and Mineralogy, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy
of Sciences, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia.
(12)Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology, Urals Branch of the Russian Academy of
Sciences, Yekaterinburg 620144, Russia.
(13)1] Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Laboratory of Archaeology, Department 
of Anthropology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 
1Z1, Canada.
(14)Siberian Cultural Center, Omsk 644010, Russia.
(15)1] Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, New
Mexico 87501, USA.
(16)Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit, Research Laboratory for Archaeology and 
the History of Art, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK.
(17)Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(18)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA
[2] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(19)1] Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Department of Human Evolution, Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany.

We present the high-quality genome sequence of a ∼45,000-year-old modern human
male from Siberia. This individual derives from a population that lived before-or
simultaneously with-the separation of the populations in western and eastern
Eurasia and carries a similar amount of Neanderthal ancestry as present-day
Eurasians. However, the genomic segments of Neanderthal ancestry are
substantially longer than those observed in present-day individuals, indicating
that Neanderthal gene flow into the ancestors of this individual occurred
7,000-13,000 years before he lived. We estimate an autosomal mutation rate of
0.4 × 10(-9) to 0.6 × 10(-9) per site per year, a Y chromosomal mutation rate of 
0.7 × 10(-9) to 0.9 × 10(-9) per site per year based on the additional
substitutions that have occurred in present-day non-Africans compared to this
genome, and a mitochondrial mutation rate of 1.8 × 10(-8) to 3.2 × 10(-8) per
site per year based on the age of the bone.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13810 
PMCID: PMC4753769
PMID: 25341783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):470-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13792. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Piezoelectricity of single-atomic-layer MoS2 for energy conversion and
piezotronics.

Wu W(1), Wang L(2), Li Y(3), Zhang F(4), Lin L(1), Niu S(1), Chenet D(4), Zhang
X(4), Hao Y(4), Heinz TF(3), Hone J(4), Wang ZL(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0245, USA.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 
10027, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10027, USA.
(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Columbia University, New York, New York 
10027, USA.
(5)1] School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0245, USA [2] Beijing Institute of Nanoenergy 
and Nanosystems, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 100083 Beijing, China.

The piezoelectric characteristics of nanowires, thin films and bulk crystals have
been closely studied for potential applications in sensors, transducers, energy
conversion and electronics. With their high crystallinity and ability to
withstand enormous strain, two-dimensional materials are of great interest as
high-performance piezoelectric materials. Monolayer MoS2 is predicted to be
strongly piezoelectric, an effect that disappears in the bulk owing to the
opposite orientations of adjacent atomic layers. Here we report the first
experimental study of the piezoelectric properties of two-dimensional MoS2 and
show that cyclic stretching and releasing of thin MoS2 flakes with an odd number 
of atomic layers produces oscillating piezoelectric voltage and current outputs, 
whereas no output is observed for flakes with an even number of layers. A single 
monolayer flake strained by 0.53% generates a peak output of 15 mV and 20 pA,
corresponding to a power density of 2 mW m(-2) and a 5.08%
mechanical-to-electrical energy conversion efficiency. In agreement with
theoretical predictions, the output increases with decreasing thickness and
reverses sign when the strain direction is rotated by 90°. Transport measurements
show a strong piezotronic effect in single-layer MoS2, but not in bilayer and
bulk MoS2. The coupling between piezoelectricity and semiconducting properties in
two-dimensional nanomaterials may enable the development of applications in
powering nanodevices, adaptive bioprobes and tunable/stretchable
electronics/optoelectronics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13792 
PMID: 25317560 


248. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):482-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13837. Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Limited impact on decadal-scale climate change from increased use of natural gas.

McJeon H(1), Edmonds J(1), Bauer N(2), Clarke L(1), Fisher B(3), Flannery BP(4), 
Hilaire J(2), Krey V(5), Marangoni G(6), Mi R(3), Riahi K(5), Rogner H(5), Tavoni
M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, JGCRI, 5825 University Research Court, 
Suite 3500, College Park, Maryland 20740, USA.
(2)Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, PO Box 60 12 03, D-14412
Potsdam, Germany.
(3)BAEconomics, PO Box 5447, Kingston, Australian Capital Territory 2604,
Australia.
(4)Resources for the Future, 1616 P Street Northwest, Washington, DC 20036, USA.
(5)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, A-2361
Laxenburg, Austria.
(6)Centro Euromediterraneo sui Cambiamenti Climatici and Politecnico di Milano,
Via Lambruschini 4b, 20156 Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):436-7.
    Nature. 2014 Nov 13;515(7526):198.

The most important energy development of the past decade has been the wide
deployment of hydraulic fracturing technologies that enable the production of
previously uneconomic shale gas resources in North America. If these advanced gas
production technologies were to be deployed globally, the energy market could see
a large influx of economically competitive unconventional gas resources. The
climate implications of such abundant natural gas have been hotly debated. Some
researchers have observed that abundant natural gas substituting for coal could
reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Others have reported that the non-CO2
greenhouse gas emissions associated with shale gas production make its lifecycle 
emissions higher than those of coal. Assessment of the full impact of abundant
gas on climate change requires an integrated approach to the global
energy-economy-climate systems, but the literature has been limited in either its
geographic scope or its coverage of greenhouse gases. Here we show that
market-driven increases in global supplies of unconventional natural gas do not
discernibly reduce the trajectory of greenhouse gas emissions or climate forcing.
Our results, based on simulations from five state-of-the-art integrated
assessment models of energy-economy-climate systems independently forced by an
abundant gas scenario, project large additional natural gas consumption of up to 
+170 per cent by 2050. The impact on CO2 emissions, however, is found to be much 
smaller (from -2 per cent to +11 per cent), and a majority of the models reported
a small increase in climate forcing (from -0.3 per cent to +7 per cent)
associated with the increased use of abundant gas. Our results show that although
market penetration of globally abundant gas may substantially change the future
energy system, it is not necessarily an effective substitute for climate change
mitigation policy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13837 
PMID: 25317557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):455-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13808. Epub 2014 Oct 8.

Structure and immune recognition of trimeric pre-fusion HIV-1 Env.

Pancera M(1), Zhou T(1), Druz A(1), Georgiev IS(1), Soto C(1), Gorman J(1), Huang
J(2), Acharya P(1), Chuang GY(1), Ofek G(1), Stewart-Jones GB(1), Stuckey J(1),
Bailer RT(1), Joyce MG(1), Louder MK(1), Tumba N(3), Yang Y(1), Zhang B(1), Cohen
MS(4), Haynes BF(5), Mascola JR(1), Morris L(6), Munro JB(7), Blanchard SC(8),
Mothes W(7), Connors M(2), Kwong PD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)HIV-Specific Immunity Section, Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)Center for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases of the
National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), Sandringham, Johannesburg 2131, South 
Africa.
(4)Departments of Medicine, Epidemiology, Microbiology and Immunology, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(5)Duke University Human Vaccine Institute, Departments of Medicine, Surgery,
Pediatrics and Immunology, Duke University School of Medicine, and the Center for
HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology-Immunogen Discovery at Duke University, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.
(6)1] Center for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases of
the National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), Sandringham, Johannesburg 2131,
South Africa [2] University of the Witwatersrand, Braamfontein, Johannesburg
2000, South Africa [3] Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa 
(CAPRISA), University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban 4041, South Africa.
(7)Department of Microbial Pathogenesis, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.
(8)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College of
Cornell University, New York, New York 10021, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):437-8.

The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope (Env) spike, comprising 
three gp120 and three gp41 subunits, is a conformational machine that facilitates
HIV-1 entry by rearranging from a mature unliganded state, through receptor-bound
intermediates, to a post-fusion state. As the sole viral antigen on the HIV-1
virion surface, Env is both the target of neutralizing antibodies and a focus of 
vaccine efforts. Here we report the structure at 3.5 Å resolution for an HIV-1
Env trimer captured in a mature closed state by antibodies PGT122 and 35O22. This
structure reveals the pre-fusion conformation of gp41, indicates rearrangements
needed for fusion activation, and defines parameters of immune evasion and immune
recognition. Pre-fusion gp41 encircles amino- and carboxy-terminal strands of
gp120 with four helices that form a membrane-proximal collar, fastened by
insertion of a fusion peptide-proximal methionine into a gp41-tryptophan clasp.
Spike rearrangements required for entry involve opening the clasp and expelling
the termini. N-linked glycosylation and sequence-variable regions cover the
pre-fusion closed spike; we used chronic cohorts to map the prevalence and
location of effective HIV-1-neutralizing responses, which were distinguished by
their recognition of N-linked glycan and tolerance for epitope-sequence
variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13808 
PMCID: PMC4348022
PMID: 25296255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):450-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13807. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Pulmonary macrophage transplantation therapy.

Suzuki T(1), Arumugam P(2), Sakagami T(1), Lachmann N(3), Chalk C(1), Sallese
A(1), Abe S(1), Trapnell C(4), Carey B(1), Moritz T(3), Malik P(2), Lutzko C(2), 
Wood RE(5), Trapnell BC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary Biology, Perinatal Institute, Cincinnati Children's
Hospital Medical Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(2)Division of Experimental Hematology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(3)RG Reprograming and Gene Therapy, Institute of Experimental Hematology,
Hannover Medical School, Carl Neuberg-Str. 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany.
(4)1] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Broad Institute of Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.
(5)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(6)1] Division of Pulmonary Biology, Perinatal Institute, Cincinnati Children's
Hospital Medical Center, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2]
Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [3] Division of Pulmonary,
Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, 3333 
Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):438-40.

Bone-marrow transplantation is an effective cell therapy but requires
myeloablation, which increases infection risk and mortality. Recent
lineage-tracing studies documenting that resident macrophage populations
self-maintain independently of haematological progenitors prompted us to consider
organ-targeted, cell-specific therapy. Here, using granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) receptor-β-deficient (Csf2rb(-/-)) mice that
develop a myeloid cell disorder identical to hereditary pulmonary alveolar
proteinosis (hPAP) in children with CSF2RA or CSF2RB mutations, we show that
pulmonary macrophage transplantation (PMT) of either wild-type or
Csf2rb-gene-corrected macrophages without myeloablation was safe and
well-tolerated and that one administration corrected the lung disease, secondary 
systemic manifestations and normalized disease-related biomarkers, and prevented 
disease-specific mortality. PMT-derived alveolar macrophages persisted for at
least one year as did therapeutic effects. Our findings identify mechanisms
regulating alveolar macrophage population size in health and disease, indicate
that GM-CSF is required for phenotypic determination of alveolar macrophages, and
support translation of PMT as the first specific therapy for children with hPAP.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13807 
PMCID: PMC4236859
PMID: 25274301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):490-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13723. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

A Hox regulatory network of hindbrain segmentation is conserved to the base of
vertebrates.

Parker HJ(1), Bronner ME(2), Krumlauf R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA.
(2)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(3)1] Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Kansas City, Missouri 64110, USA
[2] Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Kansas University Medical Center,
Kansas City, Kansas 66160, USA.

A defining feature governing head patterning of jawed vertebrates is a highly
conserved gene regulatory network that integrates hindbrain segmentation with
segmentally restricted domains of Hox gene expression. Although non-vertebrate
chordates display nested domains of axial Hox expression, they lack hindbrain
segmentation. The sea lamprey, a jawless fish, can provide unique insights into
vertebrate origins owing to its phylogenetic position at the base of the
vertebrate tree. It has been suggested that lamprey may represent an intermediate
state where nested Hox expression has not been coupled to the process of
hindbrain segmentation. However, little is known about the regulatory network
underlying Hox expression in lamprey or its relationship to hindbrain
segmentation. Here, using a novel tool that allows cross-species comparisons of
regulatory elements between jawed and jawless vertebrates, we report deep
conservation of both upstream regulators and segmental activity of enhancer
elements across these distant species. Regulatory regions from diverse
gnathostomes drive segmental reporter expression in the lamprey hindbrain and
require the same transcriptional inputs (for example, Kreisler (also known as
Mafba), Krox20 (also known as Egr2a)) in both lamprey and zebrafish. We find that
lamprey hox genes display dynamic segmentally restricted domains of expression;
we also isolated a conserved exonic hox2 enhancer from lamprey that drives
segmental expression in rhombomeres 2 and 4. Our results show that coupling of
Hox gene expression to segmentation of the hindbrain is an ancient trait with
origin at the base of vertebrates that probably led to the formation of
rhombomeric compartments with an underlying Hox code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13723 
PMCID: PMC4209185
PMID: 25219855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):486-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13609. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Producing more grain with lower environmental costs.

Chen X(1), Cui Z(1), Fan M(2), Vitousek P(3), Zhao M(4), Ma W(5), Wang Z(6),
Zhang W(4), Yan X(7), Yang J(8), Deng X(9), Gao Q(10), Zhang Q(11), Guo S(12),
Ren J(13), Li S(9), Ye Y(14), Wang Z(15), Huang J(16), Tang Q(17), Sun Y(18),
Peng X(19), Zhang J(6), He M(6), Zhu Y(14), Xue J(15), Wang G(2), Wu L(2), An
N(2), Wu L(2), Ma L(2), Zhang W(2), Zhang F(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural
University, Beijing 100193, China [2].
(2)College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural University,
Beijing 100193, China.
(3)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)Institute of Crop Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing
100081, China.
(5)College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, Agricultural University of
Hebei, Baoding 071001, China.
(6)College of Agronomy, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an 271000, China.
(7)Institute of Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China.
(8)Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Physiology of Jiangsu Province, Yangzhou
University, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(9)State Key Laboratory of Soil Erosion and Dryland Farming on the Loess Plateau,
Northwest Agriculture and Forestry University, Yangling 712100, China.
(10)College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China.
(11)Institute of Agricultural Environment and Resource, Shanxi Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Taiyuan 030031, China.
(12)College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural
University, Nanjing 210095, China.
(13)Research Center of Agricultural Environment &Resources, Jilin Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Changchun 130033, China.
(14)College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, Henan Agricultural University, 
Zhengzhou 450000, China.
(15)Northwest Agriculture and Forestry University, Yangling 712100, China.
(16)College of Plant Science &Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan
430070, China.
(17)Crop Physiology, Ecology &Production Center, Hunan Agricultural University,
Changsha 410128, China.
(18)Soil &Fertilizer Research Institute, Anhui Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Hefei 230031, China.
(19)College of Resources &Environmental Sciences, Northeast Agricultural
University, Harbin 150030, China.

Agriculture faces great challenges to ensure global food security by increasing
yields while reducing environmental costs. Here we address this challenge by
conducting a total of 153 site-year field experiments covering the main
agro-ecological areas for rice, wheat and maize production in China. A set of
integrated soil-crop system management practices based on a modern understanding 
of crop ecophysiology and soil biogeochemistry increases average yields for rice,
wheat and maize from 7.2 million grams per hectare (Mg ha(-1)), 7.2 Mg ha(-1) and
10.5 Mg ha(-1) to 8.5 Mg ha(-1), 8.9 Mg ha(-1) and 14.2 Mg ha(-1), respectively, 
without any increase in nitrogen fertilizer. Model simulation and life-cycle
assessment show that reactive nitrogen losses and greenhouse gas emissions are
reduced substantially by integrated soil-crop system management. If farmers in
China could achieve average grain yields equivalent to 80% of this treatment by
2030, over the same planting area as in 2012, total production of rice, wheat and
maize in China would be more than enough to meet the demand for direct human
consumption and a substantially increased demand for animal feed, while
decreasing the environmental costs of intensive agriculture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13609 
PMID: 25186728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):508-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13398. Epub 2014 Aug 31.

High-fat-diet-mediated dysbiosis promotes intestinal carcinogenesis independently
of obesity.

Schulz MD(1), Atay C(1), Heringer J(1), Romrig FK(2), Schwitalla S(2), Aydin
B(3), Ziegler PK(4), Varga J(4), Reindl W(5), Pommerenke C(6), Salinas-Riester
G(6), Böck A(7), Alpert C(8), Blaut M(9), Polson SC(10), Brandl L(11), Kirchner
T(12), Greten FR(4), Polson SW(10), Arkan MC(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Molecular Immunology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical
University Munich, 81675 Munich, Germany [2].
(2)Institute of Molecular Immunology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical
University Munich, 81675 Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Bogazici University, 34342
Bebek, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)1] Georg-Speyer-Haus, Institute for Tumor Biology and Experimental Therapy,
60596 Frankfurt am Main, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), 69120
Heidelberg, Germany [3] German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine II, Universitätsmedizin Mannheim, Medical
Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 68167 Mannheim, Germany.
(6)Microarray and Deep-Sequencing Core Facility, University Medical Center
Göttingen, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(7)Institute for Mathematical Statistics, Technical University Munich, 81675
Munich, Germany.
(8)1] Department of Gastrointestinal Microbiology, German Institute of Human
Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbruecke, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany [2].
(9)Department of Gastrointestinal Microbiology, German Institute of Human
Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbruecke, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany.
(10)Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Delaware Biotechnology
Institute, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19711, USA.
(11)Institute of Pathology, Ludwig Maximilians University, 80337 Munich, Germany.
(12)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] German
Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [3] Institute of
Pathology, Ludwig Maximilians University, 80337 Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Dec 2;20(6):937-8.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Nov;10(11):638.

Several features common to a Western lifestyle, including obesity and low levels 
of physical activity, are known risk factors for gastrointestinal cancers. There 
is substantial evidence suggesting that diet markedly affects the composition of 
the intestinal microbiota. Moreover, there is now unequivocal evidence linking
dysbiosis to cancer development. However, the mechanisms by which high-fat diet
(HFD)-mediated changes in the microbial community affect the severity of
tumorigenesis in the gut remain to be determined. Here we demonstrate that an HFD
promotes tumour progression in the small intestine of genetically susceptible,
K-ras(G12Dint), mice independently of obesity. HFD consumption, in conjunction
with K-ras mutation, mediated a shift in the composition of the gut microbiota,
and this shift was associated with a decrease in Paneth-cell-mediated
antimicrobial host defence that compromised dendritic cell recruitment and MHC
class II molecule presentation in the gut-associated lymphoid tissues. When
butyrate was administered to HFD-fed K-ras(G12Dint) mice, dendritic cell
recruitment in the gut-associated lymphoid tissues was normalized, and tumour
progression was attenuated. Importantly, deficiency in MYD88, a signalling
adaptor for pattern recognition receptors and Toll-like receptors, blocked tumour
progression. The transfer of faecal samples from HFD-fed mice with intestinal
tumours to healthy adult K-ras(G12Dint) mice was sufficient to transmit disease
in the absence of an HFD. Furthermore, treatment with antibiotics completely
blocked HFD-induced tumour progression, suggesting that distinct shifts in the
microbiota have a pivotal role in aggravating disease. Collectively, these data
underscore the importance of the reciprocal interaction between host and
environmental factors in selecting a microbiota that favours carcinogenesis, and 
they suggest that tumorigenesis is transmissible among genetically predisposed
individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13398 
PMCID: PMC4233209
PMID: 25174708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):494-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13591. Epub 2014 Aug 20.

Pre-Columbian mycobacterial genomes reveal seals as a source of New World human
tuberculosis.

Bos KI(1), Harkins KM(2), Herbig A(3), Coscolla M(4), Weber N(5), Comas I(6),
Forrest SA(7), Bryant JM(8), Harris SR(8), Schuenemann VJ(7), Campbell TJ(9),
Majander K(7), Wilbur AK(10), Guichon RA(11), Wolfe Steadman DL(12), Cook DC(13),
Niemann S(14), Behr MA(15), Zumarraga M(16), Bastida R(17), Huson D(5), Nieselt
K(5), Young D(18), Parkhill J(8), Buikstra JE(10), Gagneux S(19), Stone AC(10),
Krause J(20).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Archaeological Sciences, University of Tübingen,
Ruemelinstraße 23, 72070 Tübingen, Germany [2].
(2)1] School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, PO
Box 872402, Tempe, Arizona 85287-2402, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Archaeological Sciences, University of Tübingen,
Ruemelinstraße 23, 72070 Tübingen, Germany [2] Center for Bioinformatics,
University of Tübingen, Sand 14, 72076 Tübingen, Germany [3].
(4)1] Department of Medical Parasitology and Infection Biology, Swiss Tropical
and Public Health Institute, Socinstrasse 57, 4002 Basel, Switzerland [2]
University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, CH-4003 Basel, Switzerland [3].
(5)Center for Bioinformatics, University of Tübingen, Sand 14, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany.
(6)1] Genomics and Health Unit, FISABIO-Public Health, Avenida Cataluña 21, 46020
Valencia, Spain [2] CIBER (Centros de Investigación Biomédica en Red) in
Epidemiology and Public Health, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, C/ Monforte de
Lemos 3-5, Pabellón 11, Planta 0, 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(7)Department of Archaeological Sciences, University of Tübingen, Ruemelinstraße 
23, 72070 Tübingen, Germany.
(8)Pathogen Genomics, The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome 
Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.
(9)Department of Archaeology, University of Cape Town, Private Bag X1,
Rondebosch, 7701, South Africa.
(10)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, PO Box
872402, Tempe, Arizona 85287-2402, USA.
(11)CONICET, Laboratorio de Ecología Evolutiva Humana (FACSO, UNCPBA),
Departamento de Biología (FCEyN, UNMDP), Calle 508 No. 881 (7631), Quequen,
Argentina.
(12)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, 250 South Stadium Hall, 
Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA.
(13)Department of Anthropology, Indiana University, 701 East Kirkwood Avenue,
Bloomington, Indiana 47405-7100, USA.
(14)1] Molecular Mycobacteriology, Forschungszentrum Borstel, Parkallee 1, 23845 
Borstel, Germany [2] German Center for Infection Research, Forschungszentrum
Borstel, Parkallee 1, 23845 Borstel, Germany.
(15)McGill International TB Centre, McGill University, 1650 Cedar Avenue,
Montreal H3G 1A4, Canada.
(16)Biotechnology Institute, CICVyA-INTA Castelar, Dr. Nicolás Repetto y De Los
Reseros S/N, (B1686IGC) Hurlingham, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(17)Instituto de Investigaciones Marinas y Costeras (CONICET-UNMdP), Facultad de 
Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, San Luis
1722, Mar del Plata 7600, Argentina.
(18)1] Department of Medicine, Imperial College, London W2 1PG, UK [2] Division
of Mycobacterial Research, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, Mill
Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.
(19)1] Department of Medical Parasitology and Infection Biology, Swiss Tropical
and Public Health Institute, Socinstrasse 57, 4002 Basel, Switzerland [2]
University of Basel, Petersplatz 1, CH-4003 Basel, Switzerland.
(20)1] Department of Archaeological Sciences, University of Tübingen,
Ruemelinstraße 23, 72070 Tübingen, Germany [2] Senckenberg Centre for Human
Evolution and Palaeoenvironment, University of Tübingen, Tübingen 72070, Germany 
[3] Max Planck Institute for Science and History, Khalaische Straße 10, 07745
Jena, Germany.

Modern strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis from the Americas are closely
related to those from Europe, supporting the assumption that human tuberculosis
was introduced post-contact. This notion, however, is incompatible with
archaeological evidence of pre-contact tuberculosis in the New World. Comparative
genomics of modern isolates suggests that M. tuberculosis attained its worldwide 
distribution following human dispersals out of Africa during the Pleistocene
epoch, although this has yet to be confirmed with ancient calibration points.
Here we present three 1,000-year-old mycobacterial genomes from Peruvian human
skeletons, revealing that a member of the M. tuberculosis complex caused human
disease before contact. The ancient strains are distinct from known human-adapted
forms and are most closely related to those adapted to seals and sea lions. Two
independent dating approaches suggest a most recent common ancestor for the M.
tuberculosis complex less than 6,000 years ago, which supports a Holocene
dispersal of the disease. Our results implicate sea mammals as having played a
role in transmitting the disease to humans across the ocean.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13591 
PMCID: PMC4550673
PMID: 25141181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):503-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13633. Epub 2014 Aug 20.

Diabetes recovery by age-dependent conversion of pancreatic δ-cells into insulin 
producers.

Chera S(1), Baronnier D(1), Ghila L(1), Cigliola V(1), Jensen JN(2), Gu G(3),
Furuyama K(1), Thorel F(1), Gribble FM(4), Reimann F(4), Herrera PL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetic Medicine &Development, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Geneva, 1 rue Michel-Servet, 1211 Geneva-4, Switzerland.
(2)Novo Nordisk A/S, Niels Steensens Vej 6, DK-2820 Gentofte, Denmark.
(3)Cell and Developmental Biology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 465 21st
Av. South, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(4)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Nov;10(11):638.

Total or near-total loss of insulin-producing β-cells occurs in type 1 diabetes. 
Restoration of insulin production in type 1 diabetes is thus a major medical
challenge. We previously observed in mice in which β-cells are completely ablated
that the pancreas reconstitutes new insulin-producing cells in the absence of
autoimmunity. The process involves the contribution of islet non-β-cells;
specifically, glucagon-producing α-cells begin producing insulin by a process of 
reprogramming (transdifferentiation) without proliferation. Here we show the
influence of age on β-cell reconstitution from heterologous islet cells after
near-total β-cell loss in mice. We found that senescence does not alter α-cell
plasticity: α-cells can reprogram to produce insulin from puberty through to
adulthood, and also in aged individuals, even a long time after β-cell loss. In
contrast, before puberty there is no detectable α-cell conversion, although
β-cell reconstitution after injury is more efficient, always leading to diabetes 
recovery. This process occurs through a newly discovered mechanism: the
spontaneous en masse reprogramming of somatostatin-producing δ-cells. The
juveniles display 'somatostatin-to-insulin' δ-cell conversion, involving
dedifferentiation, proliferation and re-expression of islet developmental
regulators. This juvenile adaptability relies, at least in part, upon the
combined action of FoxO1 and downstream effectors. Restoration of insulin
producing-cells from non-β-cell origins is thus enabled throughout life via δ- or
α-cell spontaneous reprogramming. A landscape with multiple intra-islet cell
interconversion events is emerging, offering new perspectives for therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13633 
PMCID: PMC4209186
PMID: 25141178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):513-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13605. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Contrasting roles of histone 3 lysine 27 demethylases in acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia.

Ntziachristos P(1), Tsirigos A(2), Welstead GG(3), Trimarchi T(4), Bakogianni
S(4), Xu L(5), Loizou E(4), Holmfeldt L(6), Strikoudis A(4), King B(4),
Mullenders J(4), Becksfort J(7), Nedjic J(4), Paietta E(8), Tallman MS(9), Rowe
JM(10), Tonon G(11), Satoh T(12), Kruidenier L(13), Prinjha R(13), Akira S(12),
Van Vlierberghe P(14), Ferrando AA(15), Jaenisch R(16), Mullighan CG(6), Aifantis
I(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Pathology, NYU School of 
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] NYU Cancer Institute and Helen L. and
Martin S. Kimmel Center for Stem Cell Biology, NYU School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA [3].
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Pathology, NYU School of 
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] Center for Health Informatics and
Bioinformatics, NYU School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [3].
(3)1] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA [2] Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [3].
(4)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Pathology, NYU School of 
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] NYU Cancer Institute and Helen L. and
Martin S. Kimmel Center for Stem Cell Biology, NYU School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA.
(5)Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York,
New York 10032, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(7)Department of Computational Biology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital,
Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(8)Montefiore Medical Center North, Bronx, New York, New York 10467, USA.
(9)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(10)1] Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 31096, Israel [2] Shaare
Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem 9103102, Israel.
(11)Functional Genomics of Cancer Unit, Division of Molecular Oncology, Istituto 
di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico (IRCCS) San Raffaele Scientific
Institute, 20132 Milan, Italy.
(12)1] Laboratory of Host Defense, WPI Immunology Frontier Research Center (WPI
IFReC), Osaka University, 3-1 Yamada-oka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan [2]
Department of Host Defense, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases (RIMD),
Osaka University, 3-1Yamada-oka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(13)Epinova DPU, Immuno-Inflammation Therapy Area, GlaxoSmithKline R&D, Medicines
Research Centre, GunnelsWood Road, Stevenage SG1 2NY, UK.
(14)1] Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University Medical Center, New
York, New York 10032, USA [2] Center for Medical Genetics, Ghent University
Hospital, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(15)1] Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University Medical Center, New
York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of Pathology, Columbia University
Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA [3] Department of Pediatrics,
Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(16)1] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA [2] Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL) is a haematological malignancy with 
a dismal overall prognosis, including a relapse rate of up to 25%, mainly because
of the lack of non-cytotoxic targeted therapy options. Drugs that target the
function of key epigenetic factors have been approved in the context of
haematopoietic disorders, and mutations that affect chromatin modulators in a
variety of leukaemias have recently been identified; however, 'epigenetic' drugs 
are not currently used for T-ALL treatment. Recently, we described that the
polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) has a tumour-suppressor role in T-ALL. Here 
we delineated the role of the histone 3 lysine 27 (H3K27) demethylases JMJD3 and 
UTX in T-ALL. We show that JMJD3 is essential for the initiation and maintenance 
of T-ALL, as it controls important oncogenic gene targets by modulating H3K27
methylation. By contrast, we found that UTX functions as a tumour suppressor and 
is frequently genetically inactivated in T-ALL. Moreover, we demonstrated that
the small molecule inhibitor GSKJ4 (ref. 5) affects T-ALL growth, by targeting
JMJD3 activity. These findings show that two proteins with a similar enzymatic
function can have opposing roles in the context of the same disease, paving the
way for treating haematopoietic malignancies with a new category of epigenetic
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13605 
PMCID: PMC4209203
PMID: 25132549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):518-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13618. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Structure and mechanism of Zn2+-transporting P-type ATPases.

Wang K(1), Sitsel O(2), Meloni G(3), Autzen HE(3), Andersson M(4), Klymchuk T(3),
Nielsen AM(3), Rees DC(5), Nissen P(3), Gourdon P(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease (PUMPkin), Danish National
Research Foundation, Aarhus University, Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics, Gustav Wieds Vej 10C, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark [2] Department of
Biomedical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B, DK-2200
Copenhagen, Denmark (K.W. and P.G.); Department of Experimental Medical Science, 
Lund University, Sölvegatan 19, SE-221 84 Lund, Sweden (P.G.). [3].
(2)1] Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease (PUMPkin), Danish National
Research Foundation, Aarhus University, Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics, Gustav Wieds Vej 10C, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark [2].
(3)Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease (PUMPkin), Danish National
Research Foundation, Aarhus University, Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics, Gustav Wieds Vej 10C, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.
(4)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Theoretical Physics, Swedish
e-Science Research Center, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, SE-171 21 Solna,
Sweden.
(5)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East California Boulevard,
Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(6)1] Centre for Membrane Pumps in Cells and Disease (PUMPkin), Danish National
Research Foundation, Aarhus University, Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics, Gustav Wieds Vej 10C, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark [2] Department of
Biomedical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B, DK-2200
Copenhagen, Denmark (K.W. and P.G.); Department of Experimental Medical Science, 
Lund University, Sölvegatan 19, SE-221 84 Lund, Sweden (P.G.).

Zinc is an essential micronutrient for all living organisms. It is required for
signalling and proper functioning of a range of proteins involved in, for
example, DNA binding and enzymatic catalysis. In prokaryotes and photosynthetic
eukaryotes, Zn(2+)-transporting P-type ATPases of class IB (ZntA) are crucial for
cellular redistribution and detoxification of Zn(2+) and related elements. Here
we present crystal structures representing the phosphoenzyme ground state (E2P)
and a dephosphorylation intermediate (E2·Pi) of ZntA from Shigella sonnei,
determined at 3.2 Å and 2.7 Å resolution, respectively. The structures reveal a
similar fold to Cu(+)-ATPases, with an amphipathic helix at the membrane
interface. A conserved electronegative funnel connects this region to the
intramembranous high-affinity ion-binding site and may promote specific uptake of
cellular Zn(2+) ions by the transporter. The E2P structure displays a wide
extracellular release pathway reaching the invariant residues at the
high-affinity site, including C392, C394 and D714. The pathway closes in the
E2·Pi state, in which D714 interacts with the conserved residue K693, which
possibly stimulates Zn(2+) release as a built-in counter ion, as has been
proposed for H(+)-ATPases. Indeed, transport studies in liposomes provide
experimental support for ZntA activity without counter transport. These findings 
suggest a mechanistic link between PIB-type Zn(2+)-ATPases and PIII-type
H(+)-ATPases and at the same time show structural features of the extracellular
release pathway that resemble PII-type ATPases such as the
sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) and Na(+), K(+)-ATPase. 
These findings considerably increase our understanding of zinc transport in cells
and represent new possibilities for biotechnology and biomedicine.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13618 
PMCID: PMC4259247
PMID: 25132545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13794.

Helium and lead isotopes reveal the geochemical geometry of the Samoan plume.

Jackson MG(1), Hart SR(2), Konter JG(3), Kurz MD(4), Blusztajn J(2), Farley
KA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Science, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa
Barbara, California 93106-9630, USA.
(2)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
(3)Department of Geology and Geophysics, School of Earth and Ocean Sciences and
Technology (SOEST), University of Hawaii, Manoa, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.
(4)Department of Marine Chemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods
Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
(5)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Hotspot lavas erupted at ocean islands exhibit tremendous isotopic variability,
indicating that there are numerous mantle components hosted in upwelling mantle
plumes that generate volcanism at hotspots like Hawaii and Samoa. However, it is 
not known how the surface expression of the various geochemical components
observed in hotspot volcanoes relates to their spatial distribution within the
plume. Here we present a relationship between He and Pb isotopes in Samoan lavas 
that places severe constraints on the distribution of geochemical species within 
the plume. The Pb-isotopic compositions of the Samoan lavas reveal several
distinct geochemical groups, each corresponding to a different geographic
lineament of volcanoes. Each group has a signature associated with one of four
mantle endmembers with low (3)He/(4)He: EMII (enriched mantle 2), EMI (enriched
mantle 1), HIMU (high µ = (238)U/(204)Pb) and DM (depleted mantle). Critically,
these four geochemical groups trend towards a common region of Pb-isotopic space 
with high (3)He/(4)He. This observation is consistent with several
low-(3)He/(4)He components in the plume mixing with a common high-(3)He/(4)He
component, but not mixing much with each other. The mixing relationships inferred
from the new He and Pb isotopic data provide the clearest picture yet of the
geochemical geometry of a mantle plume, and are best explained by a
high-(3)He/(4)He plume matrix that hosts, and mixes with, several distinct
low-(3)He/(4)He components.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13794 
PMID: 25318524 


259. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):343-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13832.

Giant Rydberg excitons in the copper oxide Cu2O.

Kazimierczuk T(1), Fröhlich D(1), Scheel S(2), Stolz H(2), Bayer M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Experimentelle Physik 2, Technische Universität Dortmund, D-44221 Dortmund,
Germany.
(2)Institut für Physik, Universität Rostock, D-18051 Rostock, Germany.
(3)1] Experimentelle Physik 2, Technische Universität Dortmund, D-44221 Dortmund,
Germany [2] Ioffe Physical-Technical Institute of the Russian Academy of
Sciences, St Petersburg 194021, Russia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):313-4.

A highly excited atom having an electron that has moved into a level with large
principal quantum number is a hydrogen-like object, termed a Rydberg atom. The
giant size of Rydberg atoms leads to huge interaction effects. Monitoring these
interactions has provided insights into atomic and molecular physics on the
single-quantum level. Excitons--the fundamental optical excitations in
semiconductors, consisting of an electron and a positively charged hole--are the 
condensed-matter analogues of hydrogen. Highly excited excitons with extensions
similar to those of Rydberg atoms are of interest because they can be placed and 
moved in a crystal with high precision using microscopic energy potential
landscapes. The interaction of such Rydberg excitons may allow the formation of
ordered exciton phases or the sensing of elementary excitations in their
surroundings on a quantum level. Here we demonstrate the existence of Rydberg
excitons in the copper oxide Cu2O, with principal quantum numbers as large as n =
25. These states have giant wavefunction extensions (that is, the average
distance between the electron and the hole) of more than two micrometres,
compared to about a nanometre for the ground state. The strong dipole-dipole
interaction between such excitons is indicated by a blockade effect in which the 
presence of one exciton prevents the excitation of another in its vicinity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13832 
PMID: 25318523 


260. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):335-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13820.

Inefficient star formation in extremely metal poor galaxies.

Shi Y(1), Armus L(2), Helou G(2), Stierwalt S(3), Gao Y(4), Wang J(5), Zhang
ZY(6), Gu Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] School of Astronomy and Space Science, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, 
China [2] Key Laboratory of Modern Astronomy and Astrophysics (Nanjing
University), Ministry of Education, Nanjing 210093, China.
(2)Infrared Processing and Analysis Center, California Institute of Technology,
1200 East California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(3)Department of Astronomy, University of Virginia, PO Box 400325,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22904, USA.
(4)1] Purple Mountain Observatory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 2 West Beijing
Road, Nanjing 210008, China [2] Key Laboratory for Radio Astronomy, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, 2 West Beijing Road, Nanjing 210008, China.
(5)Shanghai Astronomical Observatory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 80 Nandan
Road, Shanghai 200030, China.
(6)Institute for Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Royal Observatory, Blackford
Hill, Edinburgh EH9 3HJ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):310-1.

The first galaxies contain stars born out of gas with few or no 'metals' (that
is, elements heavier than helium). The lack of metals is expected to inhibit
efficient gas cooling and star formation, but this effect has yet to be observed 
in galaxies with an oxygen abundance (relative to hydrogen) below a tenth of that
of the Sun. Extremely metal poor nearby galaxies may be our best local
laboratories for studying in detail the conditions that prevailed in low
metallicity galaxies at early epochs. Carbon monoxide emission is unreliable as a
tracer of gas at low metallicities, and while dust has been used to trace gas in 
low-metallicity galaxies, low spatial resolution in the far-infrared has
typically led to large uncertainties. Here we report spatially resolved infrared 
observations of two galaxies with oxygen abundances below ten per cent of the
solar value, and show that stars formed very inefficiently in seven star-forming 
clumps in these galaxies. The efficiencies are less than a tenth of those found
in normal, metal rich galaxies today, suggesting that star formation may have
been very inefficient in the early Universe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13820 
PMID: 25318522 


261. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):322-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13824. Epub 2014 Oct 5.

Clonal dynamics of native haematopoiesis.

Sun J(1), Ramos A(2), Chapman B(3), Johnnidis JB(4), Le L(2), Ho YJ(5), Klein
A(6), Hofmann O(3), Camargo FD(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Stem Cell Program, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA
[2] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)Stem Cell Program, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Immunology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(5)Watson School of Biological Sciences, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold
Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(6)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Dec 4;15(6):677-8.

It is currently thought that life-long blood cell production is driven by the
action of a small number of multipotent haematopoietic stem cells. Evidence
supporting this view has been largely acquired through the use of functional
assays involving transplantation. However, whether these mechanisms also govern
native non-transplant haematopoiesis is entirely unclear. Here we have
established a novel experimental model in mice where cells can be uniquely and
genetically labelled in situ to address this question. Using this approach, we
have performed longitudinal analyses of clonal dynamics in adult mice that reveal
unprecedented features of native haematopoiesis. In contrast to what occurs
following transplantation, steady-state blood production is maintained by the
successive recruitment of thousands of clones, each with a minimal contribution
to mature progeny. Our results demonstrate that a large number of long-lived
progenitors, rather than classically defined haematopoietic stem cells, are the
main drivers of steady-state haematopoiesis during most of adulthood. Our results
also have implications for understanding the cellular origin of haematopoietic
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13824 
PMCID: PMC4408613
PMID: 25296256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):339-42. doi: 10.1038/nature13773. Epub 2014 Oct 8.

Binary orbits as the driver of γ-ray emission and mass ejection in classical
novae.

Chomiuk L(1), Linford JD(1), Yang J(2), O'Brien TJ(3), Paragi Z(4), Mioduszewski 
AJ(5), Beswick RJ(3), Cheung CC(6), Mukai K(7), Nelson T(8), Ribeiro VA(9), Rupen
MP(10), Sokoloski JL(11), Weston J(11), Zheng Y(11), Bode MF(12), Eyres S(13),
Roy N(14), Taylor GB(15).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
Michigan 48824, USA.
(2)1] Department of Earth and Space Sciences, Chalmers University of Technology, 
Onsala Space Observatory, SE-439 92 Onsala, Sweden [2] Joint Institute for VLBI
in Europe, Postbus 2, NL-7990 AA Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [3] Shanghai
Astronomical Observatory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 80 Nandan Road, 200030
Shanghai, China.
(3)Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics, Alan Turing Building, University of
Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(4)Joint Institute for VLBI in Europe, Postbus 2, NL-7990 AA Dwingeloo, The
Netherlands.
(5)National Radio Astronomy Observatory, PO Box O, Socorro, New Mexico 87801,
USA.
(6)Space Science Division, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC 20375-5352, 
USA.
(7)1] Department of Physics, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, 1000
Hilltop Circle, Baltimore, Maryland 21250, USA [2] CRESST and X-ray Astrophysics 
Laboratory, NASA/GSFC, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(8)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Minnesota, 115 Church Street
Southeast, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(9)Astrophysics, Cosmology and Gravity Centre, Department of Astronomy,
University of Cape Town, Private Bag X3, Rondebosch 7701, South Africa.
(10)1] National Radio Astronomy Observatory, PO Box O, Socorro, New Mexico 87801,
USA [2] National Research Council, Herzberg Astronomy and Astrophysics, 717 White
Lake Road, PO Box 248, Penticton, British Columbia V2A 6J9, Canada.
(11)Columbia Astrophysics Laboratory, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.
(12)Astrophysics Research Institute, Liverpool John Moores University, IC2,
Liverpool Science Park, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool L3 5RF, UK.
(13)Jeremiah Horrocks Institute for Mathematics, Physics and Astronomy,
University of Central Lancashire, Preston PR1 2HE, UK.
(14)Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie, Auf dem Hügel 69, D-53121 Bonn,
Germany.
(15)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, MSC07 4220,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA.

Classical novae are the most common astrophysical thermonuclear explosions,
occurring on the surfaces of white dwarf stars accreting gas from companions in
binary star systems. Novae typically expel about 10(-4) solar masses of material 
at velocities exceeding 1,000 kilometres per second. However, the mechanism of
mass ejection in novae is poorly understood, and could be dominated by the
impulsive flash of thermonuclear energy, prolonged optically thick winds or
binary interaction with the nova envelope. Classical novae are now routinely
detected at gigaelectronvolt γ-ray wavelengths, suggesting that relativistic
particles are accelerated by strong shocks in the ejecta. Here we report
high-resolution radio imaging of the γ-ray-emitting nova V959 Mon. We find that
its ejecta were shaped by the motion of the binary system: some gas was expelled 
rapidly along the poles as a wind from the white dwarf, while denser material
drifted out along the equatorial plane, propelled by orbital motion. At the
interface between the equatorial and polar regions, we observe synchrotron
emission indicative of shocks and relativistic particle acceleration, thereby
pinpointing the location of γ-ray production. Binary shaping of the nova ejecta
and associated internal shocks are expected to be widespread among novae,
explaining why many novae are γ-ray emitters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13773 
PMID: 25296250 


263. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):351-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13767. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

High winter ozone pollution from carbonyl photolysis in an oil and gas basin.

Edwards PM(1), Brown SS(2), Roberts JM(2), Ahmadov R(3), Banta RM(2), deGouw
JA(3), Dubé WP(3), Field RA(4), Flynn JH(5), Gilman JB(3), Graus M(1), Helmig
D(6), Koss A(3), Langford AO(2), Lefer BL(5), Lerner BM(3), Li R(3), Li SM(7),
McKeen SA(3), Murphy SM(4), Parrish DD(2), Senff CJ(3), Soltis J(4), Stutz J(8), 
Sweeney C(3), Thompson CR(6), Trainer MK(2), Tsai C(8), Veres PR(3), Washenfelder
RA(3), Warneke C(3), Wild RJ(3), Young CJ(9), Yuan B(3), Zamora R(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA [2]
Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [3] Department of Chemistry, University of
York, York YO10 5DD, UK (P.M.E.); Institute of Meteorology and Geophysics,
University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 6020 Austria (M.G.); Department of Chemistry,
Memorial University of Newfoundland, St John's, Newfoundland A1B 3X7, Canada
(C.J.Y.).
(2)NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.
(3)1] NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA [2]
Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(4)Department of Atmospheric Science, University of Wyoming, Larmie, Wyoming
82070, USA.
(5)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Houston, Houston, 
Texas 77204, USA.
(6)Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado 80309, USA.
(7)Air Quality Research Division, Environment Canada, Toronto, Ontario M3H 5T4,
Canada.
(8)Department of Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(9)1] NOAA Earth System Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA [2]
Department of Chemistry, University of York, York YO10 5DD, UK (P.M.E.);
Institute of Meteorology and Geophysics, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 6020
Austria (M.G.); Department of Chemistry, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St 
John's, Newfoundland A1B 3X7, Canada (C.J.Y.).

The United States is now experiencing the most rapid expansion in oil and gas
production in four decades, owing in large part to implementation of new
extraction technologies such as horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic
fracturing. The environmental impacts of this development, from its effect on
water quality to the influence of increased methane leakage on climate, have been
a matter of intense debate. Air quality impacts are associated with emissions of 
nitrogen oxides (NOx = NO + NO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), whose
photochemistry leads to production of ozone, a secondary pollutant with negative 
health effects. Recent observations in oil- and gas-producing basins in the
western United States have identified ozone mixing ratios well in excess of
present air quality standards, but only during winter. Understanding winter ozone
production in these regions is scientifically challenging. It occurs during cold 
periods of snow cover when meteorological inversions concentrate air pollutants
from oil and gas activities, but when solar irradiance and absolute humidity,
which are both required to initiate conventional photochemistry essential for
ozone production, are at a minimum. Here, using data from a remote location in
the oil and gas basin of northeastern Utah and a box model, we provide a
quantitative assessment of the photochemistry that leads to these extreme winter 
ozone pollution events, and identify key factors that control ozone production in
this unique environment. We find that ozone production occurs at lower NOx and
much larger VOC concentrations than does its summertime urban counterpart,
leading to carbonyl (oxygenated VOCs with a C = O moiety) photolysis as a
dominant oxidant source. Extreme VOC concentrations optimize the ozone production
efficiency of NOx. There is considerable potential for global growth in oil and
gas extraction from shale. This analysis could help inform strategies to monitor 
and mitigate air quality impacts and provide broader insight into the response of
winter ozone to primary pollutants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13767 
PMID: 25274311 


264. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):359-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13811. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Site-specific group selection drives locally adapted group compositions.

Pruitt JN(1), Goodnight CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15260, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05405, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):308-9.
    Nature. 2015 Aug 27;524(7566):E1-3.
    Nature. 2015 Aug 27;524(7566):E3-4.
    Nature. 2015 Aug 27;524(7566):E4-5.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Dec;15(12):778-9.

Group selection may be defined as selection caused by the differential extinction
or proliferation of groups. The socially polymorphic spider Anelosimus studiosus 
exhibits a behavioural polymorphism in which females exhibit either a 'docile' or
'aggressive' behavioural phenotype. Natural colonies are composed of a mixture of
related docile and aggressive individuals, and populations differ in colonies'
characteristic docile:aggressive ratios. Using experimentally constructed
colonies of known composition, here we demonstrate that population-level
divergence in docile:aggressive ratios is driven by site-specific selection at
the group level--certain ratios yield high survivorship at some sites but not
others. Our data also indicate that colonies responded to the risk of extinction:
perturbed colonies tended to adjust their composition over two generations to
match the ratio characteristic of their native site, thus promoting their
long-term survival in their natal habitat. However, colonies of displaced
individuals continued to shift their compositions towards mixtures that would
have promoted their survival had they remained at their home sites, regardless of
their contemporary environment. Thus, the regulatory mechanisms that colonies use
to adjust their composition appear to be locally adapted. Our data provide
experimental evidence of group selection driving collective traits in wild
populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13811 
PMID: 25274310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):317-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13812. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

The genetics of monarch butterfly migration and warning colouration.

Zhan S(1), Zhang W(2), Niitepõld K(3), Hsu J(4), Haeger JF(5), Zalucki MP(6),
Altizer S(7), de Roode JC(8), Reppert SM(9), Kronforst MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Key Laboratory of Insect Developmental and Evolutionary Biology, Institute 
of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200032, China [2] Department of Ecology
&Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA [3] Department of
Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts 01605, USA.
(2)Department of Ecology &Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA.
(3)1] Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA
[2] Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki, FI-00014 Helsinki,
Finland.
(4)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(5)Departamento de Botánica, Ecología y Fisiología Vegetal, Universidad de
Córdoba, 14071 Córdoba, Spain.
(6)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland 4072, Australia.
(7)Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602, USA.
(8)Department of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(9)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2015 Mar;28(2):126-7.
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):314-5.
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2015 Mar;28(2):127-30.

The monarch butterfly, Danaus plexippus, is famous for its spectacular annual
migration across North America, recent worldwide dispersal, and orange warning
colouration. Despite decades of study and broad public interest, we know little
about the genetic basis of these hallmark traits. Here we uncover the history of 
the monarch's evolutionary origin and global dispersal, characterize the genes
and pathways associated with migratory behaviour, and identify the discrete
genetic basis of warning colouration by sequencing 101 Danaus genomes from around
the globe. The results rewrite our understanding of this classic system, showing 
that D. plexippus was ancestrally migratory and dispersed out of North America to
occupy its broad distribution. We find the strongest signatures of selection
associated with migration centre on flight muscle function, resulting in greater 
flight efficiency among migratory monarchs, and that variation in monarch warning
colouration is controlled by a single myosin gene not previously implicated in
insect pigmentation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13812 
PMCID: PMC4331202
PMID: 25274300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):348-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13700. Epub 2014 Sep 21.

Lithium-antimony-lead liquid metal battery for grid-level energy storage.

Wang K(1), Jiang K(1), Chung B(1), Ouchi T(1), Burke PJ(1), Boysen DA(1),
Bradwell DJ(1), Kim H(1), Muecke U(1), Sadoway DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139-4307, USA.

The ability to store energy on the electric grid would greatly improve its
efficiency and reliability while enabling the integration of intermittent
renewable energy technologies (such as wind and solar) into baseload supply.
Batteries have long been considered strong candidate solutions owing to their
small spatial footprint, mechanical simplicity and flexibility in siting.
However, the barrier to widespread adoption of batteries is their high cost. Here
we describe a lithium-antimony-lead liquid metal battery that potentially meets
the performance specifications for stationary energy storage applications. This
Li||Sb-Pb battery comprises a liquid lithium negative electrode, a molten salt
electrolyte, and a liquid antimony-lead alloy positive electrode, which
self-segregate by density into three distinct layers owing to the immiscibility
of the contiguous salt and metal phases. The all-liquid construction confers the 
advantages of higher current density, longer cycle life and simpler manufacturing
of large-scale storage systems (because no membranes or separators are involved) 
relative to those of conventional batteries. At charge-discharge current
densities of 275 milliamperes per square centimetre, the cells cycled at 450
degrees Celsius with 98 per cent Coulombic efficiency and 73 per cent round-trip 
energy efficiency. To provide evidence of their high power capability, the cells 
were discharged and charged at current densities as high as 1,000 milliamperes
per square centimetre. Measured capacity loss after operation for 1,800 hours
(more than 450 charge-discharge cycles at 100 per cent depth of discharge)
projects retention of over 85 per cent of initial capacity after ten years of
daily cycling. Our results demonstrate that alloying a high-melting-point,
high-voltage metal (antimony) with a low-melting-point, low-cost metal (lead)
advantageously decreases the operating temperature while maintaining a high cell 
voltage. Apart from the fact that this finding puts us on a desirable cost
trajectory, this approach may well be more broadly applicable to other battery
chemistries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13700 
PMID: 25252975 


267. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):385-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13813. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Rb suppresses human cone-precursor-derived retinoblastoma tumours.

Xu XL(1), Singh HP(2), Wang L(3), Qi DL(2), Poulos BK(4), Abramson DH(5), Jhanwar
SC(6), Cobrinik D(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA [2] Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer
Research, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New
York 10021, USA.
(2)1] The Vision Center, Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Surgery,
Children's Hospital Los Angeles, 4650 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90027, USA [2] The Saban Research Institute, Children's Hospital Los Angeles,
4650 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90027, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park
Avenue, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.
(5)Ophthalmic Oncology Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.
(6)1] Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, USA.
(7)1] The Vision Center, Division of Ophthalmology, Department of Surgery,
Children's Hospital Los Angeles, 4650 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90027, USA [2] The Saban Research Institute, Children's Hospital Los Angeles,
4650 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90027, USA [3] USC Eye Institute, 
Department of Ophthalmology, Keck School of Medicine of the University of
Southern California, 1450 San Pablo Street, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA
[4] Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, Keck School of Medicine of the University
of Southern California, 1441 Eastlake Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):312-3.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Nov;14(11):706-7.

Retinoblastoma is a childhood retinal tumour that initiates in response to
biallelic RB1 inactivation and loss of functional retinoblastoma (Rb) protein.
Although Rb has diverse tumour-suppressor functions and is inactivated in many
cancers, germline RB1 mutations predispose to retinoblastoma far more strongly
than to other malignancies. This tropism suggests that retinal cell-type-specific
circuitry sensitizes to Rb loss, yet the nature of the circuitry and the cell
type in which it operates have been unclear. Here we show that post-mitotic human
cone precursors are uniquely sensitive to Rb depletion. Rb knockdown induced cone
precursor proliferation in prospectively isolated populations and in intact
retina. Proliferation followed the induction of E2F-regulated genes, and depended
on factors having strong expression in maturing cone precursors and crucial roles
in retinoblastoma cell proliferation, including MYCN and MDM2. Proliferation of
Rb-depleted cones and retinoblastoma cells also depended on the Rb-related
protein p107, SKP2, and a p27 downregulation associated with cone precursor
maturation. Moreover, Rb-depleted cone precursors formed tumours in orthotopic
xenografts with histological features and protein expression typical of human
retinoblastoma. These findings provide a compelling molecular rationale for a
cone precursor origin of retinoblastoma. More generally, they demonstrate that
cell-type-specific circuitry can collaborate with an initiating oncogenic
mutation to enable tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13813 
PMCID: PMC4232224
PMID: 25252974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):376-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13582. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

Stochasticity of metabolism and growth at the single-cell level.

Kiviet DJ(1), Nghe P(2), Walker N(3), Boulineau S(3), Sunderlikova V(3), Tans
SJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] FOM institute AMOLF, Science Park 104, 1098 XG Amsterdam, the Netherlands
[2] Department of Environmental Systems Science, ETH Zurich, Universitaetsstrasse
16, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland [3] Department of Environmental Microbiology, Eawag,
Ueberlandstrasse 133, 8600 Duebendorf, Switzerland [4].
(2)1] FOM institute AMOLF, Science Park 104, 1098 XG Amsterdam, the Netherlands
[2] Laboratoire de Biochimie, UMR 8231 CNRS/ESPCI, École Supérieure de Physique
et de Chimie industrielles, 10 rue Vauquelin, 75005 Paris, France. [3].
(3)FOM institute AMOLF, Science Park 104, 1098 XG Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Elucidating the role of molecular stochasticity in cellular growth is central to 
understanding phenotypic heterogeneity and the stability of cellular
proliferation. The inherent stochasticity of metabolic reaction events should
have negligible effect, because of averaging over the many reaction events
contributing to growth. Indeed, metabolism and growth are often considered to be 
constant for fixed conditions. Stochastic fluctuations in the expression level of
metabolic enzymes could produce variations in the reactions they catalyse.
However, whether such molecular fluctuations can affect growth is unclear, given 
the various stabilizing regulatory mechanisms, the slow adjustment of key
cellular components such as ribosomes, and the secretion and buffering of excess 
metabolites. Here we use time-lapse microscopy to measure fluctuations in the
instantaneous growth rate of single cells of Escherichia coli, and quantify
time-resolved cross-correlations with the expression of lac genes and enzymes in 
central metabolism. We show that expression fluctuations of catabolically active 
enzymes can propagate and cause growth fluctuations, with transmission depending 
on the limitation of the enzyme to growth. Conversely, growth fluctuations
propagate back to perturb expression. Accordingly, enzymes were found to transmit
noise to other unrelated genes via growth. Homeostasis is promoted by a
noise-cancelling mechanism that exploits fluctuations in the dilution of proteins
by cell-volume expansion. The results indicate that molecular noise is propagated
not only by regulatory proteins but also by metabolic reactions. They also
suggest that cellular metabolism is inherently stochastic, and a generic source
of phenotypic heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13582 
PMID: 25186725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):367-71. doi: 10.1038/nature13593. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

OSCA1 mediates osmotic-stress-evoked Ca2+ increases vital for osmosensing in
Arabidopsis.

Yuan F(1), Yang H(2), Xue Y(2), Kong D(3), Ye R(3), Li C(3), Zhang J(1),
Theprungsirikul L(3), Shrift T(3), Krichilsky B(3), Johnson DM(4), Swift GB(4),
He Y(3), Siedow JN(3), Pei ZM(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA
[2] Center on Plant Environmental Sensing, College of Life and Environmental
Sciences, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310036, China.
(2)1] Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA
[2].
(3)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.
(4)Department of Physics, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.

Water is crucial to plant growth and development. Environmental water deficiency 
triggers an osmotic stress signalling cascade, which induces short-term cellular 
responses to reduce water loss and long-term responses to remodel the
transcriptional network and physiological and developmental processes. Several
signalling components that have been identified by extensive genetic screens for 
altered sensitivities to osmotic stress seem to function downstream of the
perception of osmotic stress. It is known that hyperosmolality and various other 
stimuli trigger increases in cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)]i).
Considering that in bacteria and animals osmosensing Ca(2+) channels serve as
osmosensors, hyperosmolality-induced [Ca(2+)]i increases have been widely
speculated to be involved in osmosensing in plants. However, the molecular nature
of corresponding Ca(2+) channels remain unclear. Here we describe a
hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channel and its function in osmosensing
in plants. Using calcium-imaging-based unbiased forward genetic screens we
isolated Arabidopsis mutants that exhibit low hyperosmolality-induced [Ca(2+)]i
increases. These mutants were rescreened for their cellular, physiological and
developmental responses to osmotic stress, and those with clear combined
phenotypes were selected for further physical mapping. One of the mutants,
reduced hyperosmolality-induced [Ca(2+)]i increase 1 (osca1), displays impaired
osmotic Ca(2+) signalling in guard cells and root cells, and attenuated water
transpiration regulation and root growth in response to osmotic stress. OSCA1 is 
identified as a previously unknown plasma membrane protein and forms
hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channels, revealing that OSCA1 may be an 
osmosensor. OSCA1 represents a channel responsible for [Ca(2+)]i increases
induced by a stimulus in plants, opening up new avenues for studying Ca(2+)
machineries for other stimuli and providing potential molecular genetic targets
for engineering drought-resistant crops.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13593 
PMID: 25162526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):363-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13576. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

Hallucigenia's onychophoran-like claws and the case for Tactopoda.

Smith MR(1), Ortega-Hernández J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, Downing Site, University of Cambridge, Cambridge
CB2 3EQ, UK.

The Palaeozoic form-taxon Lobopodia encompasses a diverse range of soft-bodied
'legged worms' known from exceptional fossil deposits. Although lobopodians
occupy a deep phylogenetic position within Panarthropoda, a shortage of derived
characters obscures their evolutionary relationships with extant phyla
(Onychophora, Tardigrada and Euarthropoda). Here we describe a complex feature in
the terminal claws of the mid-Cambrian lobopodian Hallucigenia sparsa--their
construction from a stack of constituent elements--and demonstrate that
equivalent elements make up the jaws and claws of extant Onychophora. A cladistic
analysis, informed by developmental data on panarthropod head segmentation,
indicates that the stacked sclerite components in these two taxa are
homologous-resolving hallucigeniid lobopodians as stem-group onychophorans. The
results indicate a sister-group relationship between Tardigrada and Euarthropoda,
adding palaeontological support to the neurological and musculoskeletal evidence 
uniting these disparate clades. These findings elucidate the evolutionary
transformations that gave rise to the panarthropod phyla, and expound the
lobopodian-like morphology of the ancestral panarthropod.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13576 
PMID: 25132546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):380-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13589. Epub 2014 Aug 6.

CRISPR-mediated direct mutation of cancer genes in the mouse liver.

Xue W(1), Chen S(1), Yin H(1), Tammela T(2), Papagiannakopoulos T(2), Joshi
NS(2), Cai W(2), Yang G(2), Bronson R(3), Crowley DG(2), Zhang F(4), Anderson
DG(5), Sharp PA(6), Jacks T(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2].
(2)David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(3)Tufts University and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(5)1] David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of
Chemical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences &Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [4] Institute for Medical Engineering and
Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.
(6)1] David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.
(7)1] David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2015 Jan;61(1):393-5.

The study of cancer genes in mouse models has traditionally relied on
genetically-engineered strains made via transgenesis or gene targeting in
embryonic stem cells. Here we describe a new method of cancer model generation
using the CRISPR/Cas (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic
repeats/CRISPR-associated proteins) system in vivo in wild-type mice. We used
hydrodynamic injection to deliver a CRISPR plasmid DNA expressing Cas9 and single
guide RNAs (sgRNAs) to the liver that directly target the tumour suppressor genes
Pten (ref. 5) and p53 (also known as TP53 and Trp53) (ref. 6), alone and in
combination. CRISPR-mediated Pten mutation led to elevated Akt phosphorylation
and lipid accumulation in hepatocytes, phenocopying the effects of deletion of
the gene using Cre-LoxP technology. Simultaneous targeting of Pten and p53
induced liver tumours that mimicked those caused by Cre-loxP-mediated deletion of
Pten and p53. DNA sequencing of liver and tumour tissue revealed insertion or
deletion mutations of the tumour suppressor genes, including bi-allelic mutations
of both Pten and p53 in tumours. Furthermore, co-injection of Cas9 plasmids
harbouring sgRNAs targeting the β-catenin gene and a single-stranded DNA
oligonucleotide donor carrying activating point mutations led to the generation
of hepatocytes with nuclear localization of β-catenin. This study demonstrates
the feasibility of direct mutation of tumour suppressor genes and oncogenes in
the liver using the CRISPR/Cas system, which presents a new avenue for rapid
development of liver cancer models and functional genomics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13589 
PMCID: PMC4199937
PMID: 25119044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):328-34. doi: 10.1038/nature13603. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

Structural mechanism of glutamate receptor activation and desensitization.

Meyerson JR(1), Kumar J(2), Chittori S(2), Rao P(1), Pierson J(3), Bartesaghi
A(1), Mayer ML(2), Subramaniam S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, Center for Cancer Research, NCI, NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neurophysiology, Porter Neuroscience
Research Center, NICHD, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)FEI Company, Hillsboro, Oregon 97124, USA.

Ionotropic glutamate receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that mediate
excitatory synaptic transmission in the vertebrate brain. To gain a better
understanding of how structural changes gate ion flux across the membrane, we
trapped rat AMPA (α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) and
kainate receptor subtypes in their major functional states and analysed the
resulting structures using cryo-electron microscopy. We show that transition to
the active state involves a 'corkscrew' motion of the receptor assembly, driven
by closure of the ligand-binding domain. Desensitization is accompanied by
disruption of the amino-terminal domain tetramer in AMPA, but not kainate,
receptors with a two-fold to four-fold symmetry transition in the ligand-binding 
domains in both subtypes. The 7.6 Å structure of a desensitized kainate receptor 
shows how these changes accommodate channel closing. These findings integrate
previous physiological, biochemical and structural analyses of glutamate
receptors and provide a molecular explanation for key steps in receptor gating.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13603 
PMCID: PMC4199900
PMID: 25119039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):372-375. doi: 10.1038/nature13590. Epub 2014 Aug
10.

Antiviral immunity via RIG-I-mediated recognition of RNA bearing 5'-diphosphates.

Goubau D(#)(1), Schlee M(#)(2), Deddouche S(1), Pruijssers AJ(3)(4), Zillinger
T(2), Goldeck M(2), Schuberth C(2), Van der Veen AG(1), Fujimura T(5), Rehwinkel 
J(1), Iskarpatyoti JA(3)(4), Barchet W(2), Ludwig J(2), Dermody TS(3)(4)(6),
Hartmann G(2), Reis e Sousa C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Immunobiology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK, London Research Institute, 44
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(2)Institut für Klinische Chemie und Klinische Pharmakologie,
Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Strasse 25, D-53127 Bonn, Germany.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, D7235
Medical Center North, 1161 21st Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37232-2581, USA.
(4)Elizabeth B. Lamb Center for Pediatric Research, Vanderbilt University School 
of Medicine, D7235 Medical Center North, 1161 21st Avenue South, Nashville, TN
37232-2581, USA.
(5)Instituto de Biología Funcional y Genómica. Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas/Universidad de Salamanca, Zacarías González 2, 37007,
Salamanca, Spain.
(6)Department of Pathology, Microbiology, and Immunology, Vanderbilt University
School of Medicine, D7235 Medical Center North, 1161 21st Avenue South,
Nashville, TN 37232-2581, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Mammalian cells possess mechanisms to detect and defend themselves from invading 
viruses. In the cytosol, the RIG-I-like receptors (RLRs), RIG-I (retinoic
acid-inducible gene I; encoded by DDX58) and MDA5 (melanoma
differentiation-associated gene 5; encoded by IFIH1) sense atypical RNAs
associated with virus infection. Detection triggers a signalling cascade via the 
adaptor MAVS that culminates in the production of type I interferons (IFN-α and
β; hereafter IFN), which are key antiviral cytokines. RIG-I and MDA5 are
activated by distinct viral RNA structures and much evidence indicates that RIG-I
responds to RNAs bearing a triphosphate (ppp) moiety in conjunction with a
blunt-ended, base-paired region at the 5'-end (reviewed in refs 1, 2, 3). Here we
show that RIG-I also mediates antiviral responses to RNAs bearing 5'-diphosphates
(5'pp). Genomes from mammalian reoviruses with 5'pp termini, 5'pp-RNA isolated
from yeast L-A virus, and base-paired 5'pp-RNAs made by in vitro transcription or
chemical synthesis, all bind to RIG-I and serve as RIG-I agonists. Furthermore, a
RIG-I-dependent response to 5'pp-RNA is essential for controlling reovirus
infection in cultured cells and in mice. Thus, the minimal determinant for RIG-I 
recognition is a base-paired RNA with 5'pp. Such RNAs are found in some viruses
but not in uninfected cells, indicating that recognition of 5'pp-RNA, like that
of 5'ppp-RNA, acts as a powerful means of self/non-self discrimination by the
innate immune system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13590 
PMCID: PMC4201573
PMID: 25119032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):389-93. doi: 10.1038/nature13580. Epub 2014 Aug 6.

Noncoding RNA transcription targets AID to divergently transcribed loci in B
cells.

Pefanis E(1), Wang J(2), Rothschild G(3), Lim J(4), Chao J(4), Rabadan R(5),
Economides AN(6), Basu U(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals, Tarrytown, New York 10591, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of
Systems Biology and Department of Biomedical Informatics, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [3].
(3)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2].
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(5)Department of Systems Biology and Department of Biomedical Informatics,
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA.
(6)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Tarrytown, New York 10591, USA.

The vast majority of the mammalian genome has the potential to express noncoding 
RNA (ncRNA). The 11-subunit RNA exosome complex is the main source of cellular
3'-5' exoribonucleolytic activity and potentially regulates the mammalian
noncoding transcriptome. Here we generated a mouse model in which the essential
subunit Exosc3 of the RNA exosome complex can be conditionally deleted.
Exosc3-deficient B cells lack the ability to undergo normal levels of class
switch recombination and somatic hypermutation, two mutagenic DNA processes used 
to generate antibody diversity via the B-cell mutator protein activation-induced 
cytidine deaminase (AID). The transcriptome of Exosc3-deficient B cells has
revealed the presence of many novel RNA exosome substrate ncRNAs. RNA exosome
substrate RNAs include xTSS-RNAs, transcription start site (TSS)-associated
antisense transcripts that can exceed 500 base pairs in length and are
transcribed divergently from cognate coding gene transcripts. xTSS-RNAs are most 
strongly expressed at genes that accumulate AID-mediated somatic mutations and/or
are frequent translocation partners of DNA double-strand breaks generated at Igh 
in B cells. Strikingly, translocations near TSSs or within gene bodies occur over
regions of RNA exosome substrate ncRNA expression. These RNA exosome-regulated,
antisense-transcribed regions of the B-cell genome recruit AID and accumulate
single-strand DNA structures containing RNA-DNA hybrids. We propose that RNA
exosome regulation of ncRNA recruits AID to single-strand DNA-forming sites of
antisense and divergent transcription in the B-cell genome, thereby creating a
link between ncRNA transcription and overall maintenance of B-cell genomic
integrity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13580 
PMCID: PMC4372240
PMID: 25119026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):223-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13422.

Pleistocene cave art from Sulawesi, Indonesia.

Aubert M(1), Brumm A(2), Ramli M(3), Sutikna T(4), Saptomo EW(5), Hakim B(6),
Morwood MJ, van den Bergh GD(7), Kinsley L(8), Dosseto A(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre for Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong, Wollongong,
New South Wales 2522, Australia [2] Place, Evolution and Rock Art Heritage Unit
(PERAHU), Griffith University, Gold Coast, Queensland 4222, Australia [3].
(2)1] Centre for Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong, Wollongong,
New South Wales 2522, Australia [2] Environmental Futures Research Institute,
Griffith University, Brisbane, Queensland 4111, Australia. [3].
(3)Balai Pelestarian Peninggalan Purbakala, Makassar 90111, Indonesia.
(4)1] Centre for Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong, Wollongong,
New South Wales 2522, Australia [2] National Centre for Archaeology (ARKENAS),
Jakarta 12001, Indonesia.
(5)National Centre for Archaeology (ARKENAS), Jakarta 12001, Indonesia.
(6)Balai Arkeologi Makassar, Makassar 90242, Indonesia.
(7)Centre for Archaeological Science, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New
South Wales 2522, Australia.
(8)Research School of Earth Sciences, The Australian National University,
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia.
(9)1] Wollongong Isotope Geochronology Laboratory, University of Wollongong,
Wollongong, New South Wales 2522, Australia [2] GeoQuEST Research Centre,
University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New South Wales 2522, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):170-1.

Archaeologists have long been puzzled by the appearance in Europe ∼40-35 thousand
years (kyr) ago of a rich corpus of sophisticated artworks, including parietal
art (that is, paintings, drawings and engravings on immobile rock surfaces) and
portable art (for example, carved figurines), and the absence or scarcity of
equivalent, well-dated evidence elsewhere, especially along early human migration
routes in South Asia and the Far East, including Wallacea and Australia, where
modern humans (Homo sapiens) were established by 50 kyr ago. Here, using
uranium-series dating of coralloid speleothems directly associated with 12 human 
hand stencils and two figurative animal depictions from seven cave sites in the
Maros karsts of Sulawesi, we show that rock art traditions on this Indonesian
island are at least compatible in age with the oldest European art. The earliest 
dated image from Maros, with a minimum age of 39.9 kyr, is now the oldest known
hand stencil in the world. In addition, a painting of a babirusa ('pig-deer')
made at least 35.4 kyr ago is among the earliest dated figurative depictions
worldwide, if not the earliest one. Among the implications, it can now be
demonstrated that humans were producing rock art by ∼40 kyr ago at opposite ends 
of the Pleistocene Eurasian world.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13422 
PMID: 25297435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13870.

Vibrational spectroscopy in the electron microscope.

Krivanek OL(1), Lovejoy TC(2), Dellby N(2), Aoki T(3), Carpenter RW(4), Rez P(5),
Soignard E(6), Zhu J(7), Batson PE(8), Lagos MJ(8), Egerton RF(9), Crozier
PA(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Nion Company, 1102 Eighth Street, Kirkland, Washington 98033, USA [2]
Department of Physics, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.
(2)Nion Company, 1102 Eighth Street, Kirkland, Washington 98033, USA.
(3)LeRoy Eyring Center for Solid State Science, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona 85287, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University, Tempe,
Arizona 85287, USA.
(5)Department of Physics, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.
(6)1] LeRoy Eyring Center for Solid State Science, Arizona State University,
Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona
State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.
(7)1] LeRoy Eyring Center for Solid State Science, Arizona State University,
Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA [2] TDK Headway Technologies Incorporated, Milpitas,
California 95035, USA.
(8)1] Institute for Advanced Materials, Devices and Nanotechnology, Rutgers
University, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA [2] Departments of Physics and
Materials Science, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.
(9)Department of Physics, University of Alberta, Edmonton T6G 2E1, Canada.
(10)School for Engineering of Matter, Transport and Energy, Arizona State
University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):177-8.

Vibrational spectroscopies using infrared radiation, Raman scattering, neutrons, 
low-energy electrons and inelastic electron tunnelling are powerful techniques
that can analyse bonding arrangements, identify chemical compounds and probe many
other important properties of materials. The spatial resolution of these
spectroscopies is typically one micrometre or more, although it can reach a few
tens of nanometres or even a few ångströms when enhanced by the presence of a
sharp metallic tip. If vibrational spectroscopy could be combined with the
spatial resolution and flexibility of the transmission electron microscope, it
would open up the study of vibrational modes in many different types of
nanostructures. Unfortunately, the energy resolution of electron energy loss
spectroscopy performed in the electron microscope has until now been too poor to 
allow such a combination. Recent developments that have improved the attainable
energy resolution of electron energy loss spectroscopy in a scanning transmission
electron microscope to around ten millielectronvolts now allow vibrational
spectroscopy to be carried out in the electron microscope. Here we describe the
innovations responsible for the progress, and present examples of applications in
inorganic and organic materials, including the detection of hydrogen. We also
demonstrate that the vibrational signal has both high- and low-spatial-resolution
components, that the first component can be used to map vibrational features at
nanometre-level resolution, and that the second component can be used for
analysis carried out with the beam positioned just outside the sample--that is,
for 'aloof' spectroscopy that largely avoids radiation damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13870 
PMID: 25297434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):202-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13791.

An ultraluminous X-ray source powered by an accreting neutron star.

Bachetti M(1), Harrison FA(2), Walton DJ(2), Grefenstette BW(2), Chakrabarty
D(3), Fürst F(2), Barret D(1), Beloborodov A(4), Boggs SE(5), Christensen FE(6), 
Craig WW(7), Fabian AC(8), Hailey CJ(9), Hornschemeier A(10), Kaspi V(11),
Kulkarni SR(2), Maccarone T(12), Miller JM(13), Rana V(2), Stern D(14), Tendulkar
SP(2), Tomsick J(5), Webb NA(1), Zhang WW(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Université de Toulouse, UPS-OMP, Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique et 
Planétologie, 9, Avenue du Colonel Roche, BP 44346, 31028 Toulouse Cedex 4,
France [2] CNRS, Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique et Planétologie, 9,
Avenue du Colonel Roche, BP 44346, 31028 Toulouse Cedex 4, France.
(2)Cahill Center for Astrophysics, 1216 East California Boulevard, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(3)MIT Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)Physics Department, Columbia University, 538 West 120th Street, New York, New 
York 10027, USA.
(5)Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.
(6)DTU Space, National Space Institute, Technical University of Denmark,
Elektrovej 327, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark.
(7)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA.
(8)Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3
0HA, UK.
(9)Columbia Astrophysics Laboratory, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.
(10)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(11)Department of Physics, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3A 2T8, Canada.
(12)Department of Physics, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas 79409, USA.
(13)Department of Astronomy, University of Michigan, 500 Church Street, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109-1042, USA.
(14)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA.

The majority of ultraluminous X-ray sources are point sources that are spatially 
offset from the nuclei of nearby galaxies and whose X-ray luminosities exceed the
theoretical maximum for spherical infall (the Eddington limit) onto stellar-mass 
black holes. Their X-ray luminosities in the 0.5-10 kiloelectronvolt energy band 
range from 10(39) to 10(41) ergs per second. Because higher masses imply less
extreme ratios of the luminosity to the isotropic Eddington limit, theoretical
models have focused on black hole rather than neutron star systems. The most
challenging sources to explain are those at the luminous end of the range (more
than 10(40) ergs per second), which require black hole masses of 50-100 times the
solar value or significant departures from the standard thin disk accretion that 
powers bright Galactic X-ray binaries, or both. Here we report broadband X-ray
observations of the nuclear region of the galaxy M82 that reveal pulsations with 
an average period of 1.37 seconds and a 2.5-day sinusoidal modulation. The
pulsations result from the rotation of a magnetized neutron star, and the
modulation arises from its binary orbit. The pulsed flux alone corresponds to an 
X-ray luminosity in the 3-30 kiloelectronvolt range of 4.9 × 10(39) ergs per
second. The pulsating source is spatially coincident with a variable source that 
can reach an X-ray luminosity in the 0.3-10 kiloelectronvolt range of
1.8 × 10(40) ergs per second. This association implies a luminosity of about 100 
times the Eddington limit for a 1.4-solar-mass object, or more than ten times
brighter than any known accreting pulsar. This implies that neutron stars may not
be rare in the ultraluminous X-ray population, and it challenges physical models 
for the accretion of matter onto magnetized compact objects.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13791 
PMID: 25297433 


278. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):198-201. doi: 10.1038/nature13730.

A mass of less than 15 solar masses for the black hole in an ultraluminous X-ray 
source.

Motch C(1), Pakull MW(1), Soria R(2), Grisé F(3), Pietrzyński G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Observatoire astronomique de Strasbourg, Université de Strasbourg, CNRS, UMR
7550, 11 rue de l'Université, F-67000 Strasbourg, France.
(2)International Centre for Radio Astronomy Research, Curtin University, GPO Box 
U1987, Perth, Western Australia 6845, Australia.
(3)1] Observatoire astronomique de Strasbourg, Université de Strasbourg, CNRS,
UMR 7550, 11 rue de l'Université, F-67000 Strasbourg, France [2] Instituto de
Astrofísica de Canarias, Calle Vía Láctea, s/n, E-38205 La Laguna, Tenerife,
Spain [3] Universidad de La Laguna, Departamento de Astrofísica, E-38206 La
Laguna, Tenerife, Spain [4] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of
Iowa, Van Allen Hall, Iowa City, Iowa 52242, USA.
(4)1] Universidad de Concepción, Departamento de Astronomía, Casilla 160-C,
Concepción, Octava Region, Chile [2] Warsaw University Observatory, Aleje
Ujazdowskie 4, 00-478 Warszawa, Poland.

Most ultraluminous X-ray sources have a typical set of properties not seen in
Galactic stellar-mass black holes. They have luminosities of more than
3 × 10(39) ergs per second, unusually soft X-ray components (with a typical
temperature of less than about 0.3 kiloelectronvolts) and a characteristic
downturn in their spectra above about 5 kiloelectronvolts. Such puzzling
properties have been interpreted either as evidence of intermediate-mass black
holes or as emission from stellar-mass black holes accreting above their
Eddington limit, analogous to some Galactic black holes at peak luminosity.
Recently, a very soft X-ray spectrum was observed in a rare and transient
stellar-mass black hole. Here we report that the X-ray source P13 in the galaxy
NGC 7793 is in a binary system with a period of about 64 days and exhibits all
three canonical properties of ultraluminous sources. By modelling the strong
optical and ultraviolet modulations arising from X-ray heating of the B9Ia donor 
star, we constrain the black hole mass to be less than 15 solar masses. Our
results demonstrate that in P13, soft thermal emission and spectral curvature are
indeed signatures of supercritical accretion. By analogy, ultraluminous X-ray
sources with similar X-ray spectra and luminosities of up to a few times
10(40) ergs per second can be explained by supercritical accretion onto massive
stellar-mass black holes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13730 
PMID: 25297432 


279. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):193-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13790. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Crystal structure of a eukaryotic group II intron lariat.

Robart AR(1), Chan RT(1), Peters JK(1), Rajashankar KR(2), Toor N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(2)NE-CAT and Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University,
Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):173-4.

The formation of branched lariat RNA is an evolutionarily conserved feature of
splicing reactions for both group II and spliceosomal introns. The lariat is
important for the fidelity of 5' splice-site selection and consists of a 2'-5'
phosphodiester bond between a bulged adenosine and the 5' end of the intron. To
gain insight into this ubiquitous intramolecular linkage, we determined the
crystal structure of a eukaryotic group IIB intron in the lariat form at 3.7 Å.
This revealed that two tandem tetraloop-receptor interactions, η-η' and π-π',
place domain VI in the core to position the lariat bond in the post-catalytic
state. On the basis of structural and biochemical data, we propose that π-π' is a
dynamic interaction that mediates the transition between the two steps of
splicing, with η-η' serving an ancillary role. The structure also reveals a
four-magnesium-ion cluster involved in both catalysis and positioning of the 5'
end. Given the evolutionary relationship between group II and nuclear introns, it
is likely that this active site configuration exists in the spliceosome as well.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13790 
PMCID: PMC4197185
PMID: 25252982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13731. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Global covariation of carbon turnover times with climate in terrestrial
ecosystems.

Carvalhais N(1), Forkel M(2), Khomik M(3), Bellarby J(4), Jung M(2), Migliavacca 
M(5), Mu M(6), Saatchi S(7), Santoro M(8), Thurner M(2), Weber U(2), Ahrens B(2),
Beer C(9), Cescatti A(10), Randerson JT(6), Reichstein M(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, Hans Knöll Strasse 10, 07745
Jena, Germany [2] Departamento de Ciências e Engenharia do Ambiente, DCEA,
Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia, FCT, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, 2829-516
Caparica, Portugal.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, Hans Knöll Strasse 10, 07745 Jena,
Germany.
(3)1] Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, Hans Knöll Strasse 10, 07745
Jena, Germany [2] School of Geography and Earth Sciences, McMaster University,
Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada.
(4)1] Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, School of Biological
Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 3UU, UK [2] Lancaster Environment
Centre, Lancaster University, Bailrigg, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK.
(5)1] Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, Hans Knöll Strasse 10, 07745
Jena, Germany [2] Remote Sensing of Environmental Dynamics Lab, DISAT, University
of Milano-Bicocca, Piazza della Scienza 1, 20126 Milan, Italy.
(6)Department of Earth System Science, University of California Irvine, Irvine,
California 92697, USA.
(7)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA.
(8)Gamma Remote Sensing, Worbstrasse 225, 3073 Gümligen, Switzerland.
(9)1] Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, Hans Knöll Strasse 10, 07745
Jena, Germany [2] Department of Applied Environmental Science and Bolin Centre
for Climate Research, Stockholm University, Svante Arrhenius väg 8, 10691
Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and
Sustainability, Climate Risk Management Unit, Via E. Fermi, 2749, I-21027 Ispra, 
Italy.

The response of the terrestrial carbon cycle to climate change is among the
largest uncertainties affecting future climate change projections. The feedback
between the terrestrial carbon cycle and climate is partly determined by changes 
in the turnover time of carbon in land ecosystems, which in turn is an ecosystem 
property that emerges from the interplay between climate, soil and vegetation
type. Here we present a global, spatially explicit and observation-based
assessment of whole-ecosystem carbon turnover times that combines new estimates
of vegetation and soil organic carbon stocks and fluxes. We find that the overall
mean global carbon turnover time is 23(+7)(-4) years (95 per cent confidence
interval). On average, carbon resides in the vegetation and soil near the Equator
for a shorter time than at latitudes north of 75° north (mean turnover times of
15 and 255 years, respectively). We identify a clear dependence of the turnover
time on temperature, as expected from our present understanding of temperature
controls on ecosystem dynamics. Surprisingly, our analysis also reveals a
similarly strong association between turnover time and precipitation. Moreover,
we find that the ecosystem carbon turnover times simulated by state-of-the-art
coupled climate/carbon-cycle models vary widely and that numerical simulations,
on average, tend to underestimate the global carbon turnover time by 36 per cent.
The models show stronger spatial relationships with temperature than do
observation-based estimates, but generally do not reproduce the strong
relationships with precipitation and predict faster carbon turnover in many
semi-arid regions. Our findings suggest that future climate/carbon-cycle
feedbacks may depend more strongly on changes in the hydrological cycle than is
expected at present and is considered in Earth system models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13731 
PMID: 25252980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):218-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13774. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

High secondary aerosol contribution to particulate pollution during haze events
in China.

Huang RJ(1), Zhang Y(2), Bozzetti C(3), Ho KF(4), Cao JJ(5), Han Y(5),
Daellenbach KR(3), Slowik JG(3), Platt SM(3), Canonaco F(3), Zotter P(3), Wolf
R(3), Pieber SM(3), Bruns EA(3), Crippa M(6), Ciarelli G(3), Piazzalunga A(7),
Schwikowski M(2), Abbaszade G(8), Schnelle-Kreis J(8), Zimmermann R(9), An Z(5), 
Szidat S(10), Baltensperger U(3), El Haddad I(11), Prévôt AS(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry, Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), 5232
Villigen, Switzerland [2] State Key Laboratory of Loess and Quaternary Geology
(SKLLQG), and Key Laboratory of Aerosol Chemistry and Physics, Institute of Earth
Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xi'an 710075, China [3].
(2)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, and Oeschger Centre for Climate
Change Research, University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland [2] Laboratory of
Radiochemistry and Environmental Chemistry, Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), 5232
Villigen, Switzerland.
(3)Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry, Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), 5232
Villigen, Switzerland.
(4)The Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Loess and Quaternary Geology (SKLLQG), and Key
Laboratory of Aerosol Chemistry and Physics, Institute of Earth Environment,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xi'an 710075, China.
(6)1] Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry, Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), 5232
Villigen, Switzerland [2] European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Institute
for Environment and Sustainability, Air and Climate Unit, Via Fermi, 2749, 21027 
Ispra, Italy.
(7)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Milano Bicocca, 
Piazza della Scienza 1, Milan 20126, Italy.
(8)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health
(GmbH), Joint Mass Spectrometry Centre, Cooperation Group Comprehensive Molecular
Analytics and Helmholtz Virtual Institute of Complex Molecular Systems in
Environmental Health - Aerosol and Health (HICE), 85764 Neuherberg, Germany.
(9)1] Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health 
(GmbH), Joint Mass Spectrometry Centre, Cooperation Group Comprehensive Molecular
Analytics and Helmholtz Virtual Institute of Complex Molecular Systems in
Environmental Health - Aerosol and Health (HICE), 85764 Neuherberg, Germany [2]
University of Rostock, Joint Mass Spectrometry Centre, Institute of Chemistry,
Analytical Chemistry, 18015 Rostock, Germany.
(10)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, and Oeschger Centre for Climate
Change Research, University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(11)1] Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry, Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), 5232
Villigen, Switzerland [2].

Rapid industrialization and urbanization in developing countries has led to an
increase in air pollution, along a similar trajectory to that previously
experienced by the developed nations. In China, particulate pollution is a
serious environmental problem that is influencing air quality, regional and
global climates, and human health. In response to the extremely severe and
persistent haze pollution experienced by about 800 million people during the
first quarter of 2013 (refs 4, 5), the Chinese State Council announced its aim to
reduce concentrations of PM2.5 (particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter
less than 2.5 micrometres) by up to 25 per cent relative to 2012 levels by 2017
(ref. 6). Such efforts however require elucidation of the factors governing the
abundance and composition of PM2.5, which remain poorly constrained in China.
Here we combine a comprehensive set of novel and state-of-the-art offline
analytical approaches and statistical techniques to investigate the chemical
nature and sources of particulate matter at urban locations in Beijing, Shanghai,
Guangzhou and Xi'an during January 2013. We find that the severe haze pollution
event was driven to a large extent by secondary aerosol formation, which
contributed 30-77 per cent and 44-71 per cent (average for all four cities) of
PM2.5 and of organic aerosol, respectively. On average, the contribution of
secondary organic aerosol (SOA) and secondary inorganic aerosol (SIA) are found
to be of similar importance (SOA/SIA ratios range from 0.6 to 1.4). Our results
suggest that, in addition to mitigating primary particulate emissions, reducing
the emissions of secondary aerosol precursors from, for example, fossil fuel
combustion and biomass burning is likely to be important for controlling China's 
PM2.5 levels and for reducing the environmental, economic and health impacts
resulting from particulate pollution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13774 
PMID: 25231863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):181-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13793. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Artificial sweeteners induce glucose intolerance by altering the gut microbiota.

Suez J(1), Korem T(2), Zeevi D(2), Zilberman-Schapira G(3), Thaiss CA(1), Maza
O(1), Israeli D(4), Zmora N(5), Gilad S(6), Weinberger A(7), Kuperman Y(8),
Harmelin A(8), Kolodkin-Gal I(9), Shapiro H(1), Halpern Z(10), Segal E(7), Elinav
E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel.
(2)1] Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute 
of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel [2].
(3)1] Department of Immunology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel [2].
(4)Day Care Unit and the Laboratory of Imaging and Brain Stimulation, Kfar Shaul 
hospital, Jerusalem Center for Mental Health, Jerusalem 91060, Israel.
(5)1] Internal Medicine Department, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv
64239, Israel [2] Research Center for Digestive Tract and Liver Diseases, Tel
Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University,
Tel Aviv 69978, Israel [3] Digestive Center, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center,
Tel Aviv 64239, Israel.
(6)The Nancy and Stephen Grand Israel National Center for Personalized Medicine
(INCPM), Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(8)Department of Veterinary Resources, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.
(9)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.
(10)1] Research Center for Digestive Tract and Liver Diseases, Tel Aviv Sourasky 
Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978,
Israel [2] Digestive Center, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv 64239,
Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):176-7.
    Cell Metab. 2014 Nov 4;20(5):701-3.
    Z Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec;52(12):1493-4.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Nov;10(11):637.

Non-caloric artificial sweeteners (NAS) are among the most widely used food
additives worldwide, regularly consumed by lean and obese individuals alike. NAS 
consumption is considered safe and beneficial owing to their low caloric content,
yet supporting scientific data remain sparse and controversial. Here we
demonstrate that consumption of commonly used NAS formulations drives the
development of glucose intolerance through induction of compositional and
functional alterations to the intestinal microbiota. These NAS-mediated
deleterious metabolic effects are abrogated by antibiotic treatment, and are
fully transferrable to germ-free mice upon faecal transplantation of microbiota
configurations from NAS-consuming mice, or of microbiota anaerobically incubated 
in the presence of NAS. We identify NAS-altered microbial metabolic pathways that
are linked to host susceptibility to metabolic disease, and demonstrate similar
NAS-induced dysbiosis and glucose intolerance in healthy human subjects.
Collectively, our results link NAS consumption, dysbiosis and metabolic
abnormalities, thereby calling for a reassessment of massive NAS usage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13793 
PMID: 25231862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13763. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

Large, non-saturating magnetoresistance in WTe2.

Ali MN(1), Xiong J(2), Flynn S(1), Tao J(3), Gibson QD(1), Schoop LM(1), Liang
T(2), Haldolaarachchige N(1), Hirschberger M(2), Ong NP(2), Cava RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
USA.
(2)Joseph Henry Laboratories and Department of Physics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(3)Department of Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA.

Magnetoresistance is the change in a material's electrical resistance in response
to an applied magnetic field. Materials with large magnetoresistance have found
use as magnetic sensors, in magnetic memory, and in hard drives at room
temperature, and their rarity has motivated many fundamental studies in materials
physics at low temperatures. Here we report the observation of an extremely large
positive magnetoresistance at low temperatures in the non-magnetic layered
transition-metal dichalcogenide WTe2: 452,700 per cent at 4.5 kelvins in a
magnetic field of 14.7 teslas, and 13 million per cent at 0.53 kelvins in a
magnetic field of 60 teslas. In contrast with other materials, there is no
saturation of the magnetoresistance value even at very high applied fields.
Determination of the origin and consequences of this effect, and the fabrication 
of thin films, nanostructures and devices based on the extremely large positive
magnetoresistance of WTe2, will represent a significant new direction in the
study of magnetoresistivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13763 
PMID: 25219849 


284. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):242-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13614. Epub 2014 Aug 24.

HSP70 sequestration by free α-globin promotes ineffective erythropoiesis in
β-thalassaemia.

Arlet JB(1), Ribeil JA(2), Guillem F(3), Negre O(4), Hazoume A(5), Marcion G(5), 
Beuzard Y(4), Dussiot M(6), Moura IC(7), Demarest S(8), de Beauchêne IC(9),
Belaid-Choucair Z(3), Sevin M(5), Maciel TT(7), Auclair C(9), Leboulch P(10),
Chretien S(4), Tchertanov L(9), Baudin-Creuza V(11), Seigneuric R(12), Fontenay
M(13), Garrido C(14), Hermine O(15), Courtois G(16).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Service de Médecine Interne, Faculté de 
médecine Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris-Cité et Assistance publique - Hôpitaux
de Paris, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, 15 rue Leblanc 75908 Paris, France
[3] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité University, Imagine Institute, Assistance
publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015
Paris, France [4] Laboratory of Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [5].
(2)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité
University, Imagine Institute, Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [3] Laboratory of
Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [4] Département de Biothérapie, Faculté de 
médecine Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris-Cité et Assistance publique - Hôpitaux
de Paris, Hôpital Necker, 149 rue de Sèvres 75015 Paris, France [5].
(3)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité
University, Imagine Institute, Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [3] Laboratory of
Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France.
(4)Commissariat à l'énergie atomique (CEA), Institute of Emerging Diseases and
Innovative Therapies (iMETI), 18 Route du Panorama, 92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses,
France.
(5)1] INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 866, Equipe labellisée Ligue contre le
Cancer and Association pour la Recherche contre le Cancer, and Laboratoire
d'Excellence Lipoprotéines et santé (LipSTIC), 21033 Dijon, France [2] University
of Burgundy, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 7 boulevard Jeanne d'Arc, 21033
Dijon, France.
(6)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité
University, Imagine Institute, Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [3] Laboratory of
Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [4] INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 699,
Hôpital Bichat, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 75018 Paris, France.
(7)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité
University, Imagine Institute, Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [3] Laboratory of
Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [4] INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 699,
Hôpital Bichat, 46 rue Henri Huchard, 75018 Paris, France [5] Faculté de médecine
and Université Denis Diderot Paris VII, 5 Rue Thomas Mann, 75013 Paris, France.
(8)Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS), unité mixte de recherche 
8113, Ecole Normale Supérieure de Cachan, 61 avenue du président Wilson, 94230
Cachan, France.
(9)1] Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS), unité mixte de
recherche 8113, Ecole Normale Supérieure de Cachan, 61 avenue du président
Wilson, 94230 Cachan, France [2] Laboratoire d'Excellence en Recherche sur le
Médicament et l'Innovation Thérapeutique (LERMIT), Campus Paris Saclay, 5 rue
Jean-Baptiste Clément 92296 Châtenay-Malabry, France.
(10)1] Commissariat à l'énergie atomique (CEA), Institute of Emerging Diseases
and Innovative Therapies (iMETI), 18 Route du Panorama, 92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses,
France [2] Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck St, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(11)INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 779, Université Paris XI, Le
Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(12)University of Burgundy, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 7 boulevard Jeanne 
d'Arc, 21033 Dijon, France.
(13)1] Laboratory of Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [2] Institut Cochin,
INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1016, centre national de la recherche
scientifique (CNRS), unité mixte de recherche 8104, Université Paris Descartes,
and Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris
Centre, Hôpital Cochin, Service d'hématologie biologique, 27 rue du Faubourg
Saitn-Jacques, 75014 Paris, France.
(14)1] INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 866, Equipe labellisée Ligue contre le
Cancer and Association pour la Recherche contre le Cancer, and Laboratoire
d'Excellence Lipoprotéines et santé (LipSTIC), 21033 Dijon, France [2] University
of Burgundy, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 7 boulevard Jeanne d'Arc, 21033
Dijon, France [3] Centre anticancéreux George François Leclerc, 1 rue professeur 
Marion, 21079 Dijon, France [4].
(15)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité
University, Imagine Institute, Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [3] Laboratory of
Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [4] Service d'hématologie, Faculté de
médecine Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris-Cité et Assistance publique - Hôpitaux
de Paris Hôpital Necker, 149 rue de Sèvres, 75015 Paris, France [5].
(16)1] Laboratoire INSERM, unité mixte de recherche 1163, centre national de la
recherche scientifique (CNRS) équipe de recherche labellisée 8254, 24 Boulevard
de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [2] Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité
University, Imagine Institute, Assistance publique - Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital
Necker, 24 Boulevard de Montparnasse, 75015 Paris, France [3] Laboratory of
Excellence GR-Ex, 75015 Paris, France [4].

β-Thalassaemia major (β-TM) is an inherited haemoglobinopathy caused by a
quantitative defect in the synthesis of β-globin chains of haemoglobin, leading
to the accumulation of free α-globin chains that form toxic aggregates. Despite
extensive knowledge of the molecular defects causing β-TM, little is known of the
mechanisms responsible for the ineffective erythropoiesis observed in the
condition, which is characterized by accelerated erythroid differentiation,
maturation arrest and apoptosis at the polychromatophilic stage. We have
previously demonstrated that normal human erythroid maturation requires a
transient activation of caspase-3 at the later stages of maturation. Although
erythroid transcription factor GATA-1, the master transcriptional factor of
erythropoiesis, is a caspase-3 target, it is not cleaved during erythroid
differentiation. We have shown that, in human erythroblasts, the chaperone heat
shock protein70 (HSP70) is constitutively expressed and, at later stages of
maturation, translocates into the nucleus and protects GATA-1 from caspase-3
cleavage. The primary role of this ubiquitous chaperone is to participate in the 
refolding of proteins denatured by cytoplasmic stress, thus preventing their
aggregation. Here we show in vitro that during the maturation of human β-TM
erythroblasts, HSP70 interacts directly with free α-globin chains. As a
consequence, HSP70 is sequestrated in the cytoplasm and GATA-1 is no longer
protected, resulting in end-stage maturation arrest and apoptosis. Transduction
of a nuclear-targeted HSP70 mutant or a caspase-3-uncleavable GATA-1 mutant
restores terminal maturation of β-TM erythroblasts, which may provide a rationale
for new targeted therapies of β-TM.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13614 
PMID: 25156257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13562.

Protein competition switches the function of COP9 from self-renewal to
differentiation.

Pan L(1), Wang S(2), Lu T(3), Weng C(4), Song X(4), Park JK(5), Sun J(6), Yang
ZH(6), Yu J(7), Tang H(8), McKearin DM(5), Chamovitz DA(9), Ni J(6), Xie T(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA [2] Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Infection
and Immunity, Institute of Biophysics, 15 Da Tun Road, Beijing 100101, China [3].
(2)1] Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA [2] Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, University of
Kansas School of Medicine, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, Kansas 66160, USA
[3].
(3)1] Center for Life Sciences, School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 
100084, China [2].
(4)Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA.
(5)1] Department of Molecular Biology and Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390-9148, USA
[2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815-6789, USA.
(6)Center for Life Sciences, School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.
(7)1] Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas City,
Missouri 64110, USA [2] Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Infection
and Immunity, Institute of Biophysics, 15 Da Tun Road, Beijing 100101, China.
(8)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity,
Institute of Biophysics, 15 Da Tun Road, Beijing 100101, China.
(9)Department of Plant Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
(10)1] Stowers Institute for Medical Research, 1000 East 50th Street, Kansas
City, Missouri 64110, USA [2] Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, University 
of Kansas School of Medicine, 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, Kansas 66160, 
USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2014 Nov 10;31(3):261-2.

The balance between stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is controlled by
intrinsic factors and niche signals. In the Drosophila melanogaster ovary, some
intrinsic factors promote germline stem cell (GSC) self-renewal, whereas others
stimulate differentiation. However, it remains poorly understood how the balance 
between self-renewal and differentiation is controlled. Here we use D.
melanogaster ovarian GSCs to demonstrate that the differentiation factor Bam
controls the functional switch of the COP9 complex from self-renewal to
differentiation via protein competition. The COP9 complex is composed of eight
Csn subunits, Csn1-8, and removes Nedd8 modifications from target proteins.
Genetic results indicated that the COP9 complex is required intrinsically for GSC
self-renewal, whereas other Csn proteins, with the exception of Csn4, were also
required for GSC progeny differentiation. Bam-mediated Csn4 sequestration from
the COP9 complex via protein competition inactivated the self-renewing function
of COP9 and allowed other Csn proteins to promote GSC differentiation. Therefore,
this study reveals a protein-competition-based mechanism for controlling the
balance between stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. Because numerous
self-renewal factors are ubiquitously expressed throughout the stem cell lineage 
in various systems, protein competition may function as an important mechanism
for controlling the self-renewal-to-differentiation switch.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13562 
PMID: 25119050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):247-51. doi: 10.1038/nature13561. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

PRC2 loss amplifies Ras-driven transcription and confers sensitivity to
BRD4-based therapies.

De Raedt T(1), Beert E(2), Pasmant E(3), Luscan A(4), Brems H(5), Ortonne N(4),
Helin K(6), Hornick JL(7), Mautner V(8), Kehrer-Sawatzki H(9), Clapp W(10),
Bradner J(11), Vidaud M(4), Upadhyaya M(12), Legius E(13), Cichowski K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Genetics Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Ludwig Center at Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)1] Department of Human Genetics, Catholic University Leuven, 3000 Leuven,
Belgium [2] [3] Laboratory of Aquatic Biology, Interdisciplinary Research
Facility Life Sciences, Katholieke Universiteit, Leuven Afdeling Kortrijk, 8500
Kortrijk, Belgium.
(3)1] INSERM UMR_S745 et EA7331, Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité,
Faculté des Sciences Pharmaceutiques et Biologiques, 75006 Paris, France [2]
Service de Biochimie et Génétique Moléculaire, Hôpital Cochin, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 75014 Paris, France [3].
(4)1] INSERM UMR_S745 et EA7331, Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité,
Faculté des Sciences Pharmaceutiques et Biologiques, 75006 Paris, France [2]
Service de Biochimie et Génétique Moléculaire, Hôpital Cochin, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 75014 Paris, France.
(5)Department of Human Genetics, Catholic University Leuven, 3000 Leuven,
Belgium.
(6)1] Biotech Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC), University of Copenhagen,
2200 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Center for Epigenetics, University of Copenhagen,
2200 Copenhagen, Denmark [3] The Danish Stem Cell Center (Danstem), University of
Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(8)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Centre,
Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Ulm, 89081 Ulm, Germany.
(10)Herman Wells Center for Pediatric Research, Department of Pediatrics, Indiana
University School of Medicine, 46202 Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(11)1] Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of
Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(12)Institute of Medical Genetics, Cardiff University, Heath Park, Cardiff CF14
4XN, UK.
(13)1] Department of Human Genetics, Catholic University Leuven, 3000 Leuven,
Belgium [2] Center for Human Genetics, University Hospital Leuven, 3000 Leuven
Belgium.

The polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) exerts oncogenic effects in many tumour 
types. However, loss-of-function mutations in PRC2 components occur in a subset
of haematopoietic malignancies, suggesting that this complex plays a dichotomous 
and poorly understood role in cancer. Here we provide genomic, cellular, and
mouse modelling data demonstrating that the polycomb group gene SUZ12 functions
as tumour suppressor in PNS tumours, high-grade gliomas and melanomas by
cooperating with mutations in NF1. NF1 encodes a Ras GTPase-activating protein
(RasGAP) and its loss drives cancer by activating Ras. We show that SUZ12 loss
potentiates the effects of NF1 mutations by amplifying Ras-driven transcription
through effects on chromatin. Importantly, however, SUZ12 inactivation also
triggers an epigenetic switch that sensitizes these cancers to bromodomain
inhibitors. Collectively, these studies not only reveal an unexpected connection 
between the PRC2 complex, NF1 and Ras, but also identify a promising
epigenetic-based therapeutic strategy that may be exploited for a variety of
cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13561 
PMID: 25119042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):237-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13564. Epub 2014 Aug 6.

Interleukin-22 alleviates metabolic disorders and restores mucosal immunity in
diabetes.

Wang X(1), Ota N(1), Manzanillo P(2), Kates L(3), Zavala-Solorio J(3),
Eidenschenk C(2), Zhang J(2), Lesch J(2), Lee WP(2), Ross J(3), Diehl L(4), van
Bruggen N(3), Kolumam G(5), Ouyang W(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Immunology, Genentech, South San Francisco, California 94080,
USA [2].
(2)Department of Immunology, Genentech, South San Francisco, California 94080,
USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Imaging, Genentech, South San Francisco, California
94080, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Genentech, South San Francisco, California 94080,
USA.
(5)1] Department of Biomedical Imaging, Genentech, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA [2].

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Nov 4;20(5):708-9.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Nov;10(11):639.

The connection between an altered gut microbiota and metabolic disorders such as 
obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease is well established. Defects in
preserving the integrity of the mucosal barriers can result in systemic
endotoxaemia that contributes to chronic low-grade inflammation, which further
promotes the development of metabolic syndrome. Interleukin (IL)-22 exerts
essential roles in eliciting antimicrobial immunity and maintaining mucosal
barrier integrity within the intestine. Here we investigate the connection
between IL-22 and metabolic disorders. We find that the induction of IL-22 from
innate lymphoid cells and CD4(+) T cells is impaired in obese mice under various 
immune challenges, especially in the colon during infection with Citrobacter
rodentium. While innate lymphoid cell populations are largely intact in obese
mice, the upregulation of IL-23, a cytokine upstream of IL-22, is compromised
during the infection. Consequently, these mice are susceptible to C. rodentium
infection, and both exogenous IL-22 and IL-23 are able to restore the mucosal
host defence. Importantly, we further unveil unexpected functions of IL-22 in
regulating metabolism. Mice deficient in IL-22 receptor and fed with high-fat
diet are prone to developing metabolic disorders. Strikingly, administration of
exogenous IL-22 in genetically obese leptin-receptor-deficient (db/db) mice and
mice fed with high-fat diet reverses many of the metabolic symptoms, including
hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance. IL-22 shows diverse metabolic benefits, as
it improves insulin sensitivity, preserves gut mucosal barrier and endocrine
functions, decreases endotoxaemia and chronic inflammation, and regulates lipid
metabolism in liver and adipose tissues. In summary, we identify the IL-22
pathway as a novel target for therapeutic intervention in metabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13564 
PMID: 25119041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13585. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

Inappropriate p53 activation during development induces features of CHARGE
syndrome.

Van Nostrand JL(1), Brady CA(2), Jung H(1), Fuentes DR(3), Kozak MM(2), Johnson
TM(2), Lin CY(4), Lin CJ(5), Swiderski DL(6), Vogel H(4), Bernstein JA(7),
Attié-Bitach T(8), Chang CP(9), Wysocka J(10), Martin DM(11), Attardi LD(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Division of Radiation and Cancer Biology,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)1] Department of Radiation Oncology, Division of Radiation and Cancer Biology,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2]
Cardiovascular Research Center and Division of Cardiology, Department of
Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Charlestown,
Massachusetts 02129, USA (C.A.B.); Department of Medicine, University of Central 
Florida, Orlando, Florida 32827, USA (M.M.K.); Department of Emergency Medicine, 
Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA (T.M.J.).
(3)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(5)Department of Developmental Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology, The University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(8)1] Département de Génétique, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, APHP, 75015
Paris, France [2] Unite INSERM U1163, Université Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris
Cité, Institut Imagine, 75015 Paris, France.
(9)Krannert Institute of Cardiology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, USA.
(10)1] Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Department of Developmental
Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(11)1] Department of Pediatrics, The University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2] Department of Human Genetics, The University of
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(12)1] Department of Radiation Oncology, Division of Radiation and Cancer
Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA 
[2] Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

CHARGE syndrome is a multiple anomaly disorder in which patients present with a
variety of phenotypes, including ocular coloboma, heart defects, choanal atresia,
retarded growth and development, genitourinary hypoplasia and ear abnormalities. 
Despite 70-90% of CHARGE syndrome cases resulting from mutations in the gene
CHD7, which encodes an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeller, the pathways
underlying the diverse phenotypes remain poorly understood. Surprisingly, our
studies of a knock-in mutant mouse strain that expresses a stabilized and
transcriptionally dead variant of the tumour-suppressor protein p53
(p53(25,26,53,54)), along with a wild-type allele of p53 (also known as Trp53),
revealed late-gestational embryonic lethality associated with a host of
phenotypes that are characteristic of CHARGE syndrome, including coloboma, inner 
and outer ear malformations, heart outflow tract defects and craniofacial
defects. We found that the p53(25,26,53,54) mutant protein stabilized and
hyperactivated wild-type p53, which then inappropriately induced its target genes
and triggered cell-cycle arrest or apoptosis during development. Importantly,
these phenotypes were only observed with a wild-type p53 allele, as
p53(25,26,53,54)(/-) embryos were fully viable. Furthermore, we found that CHD7
can bind to the p53 promoter, thereby negatively regulating p53 expression, and
that CHD7 loss in mouse neural crest cells or samples from patients with CHARGE
syndrome results in p53 activation. Strikingly, we found that p53 heterozygosity 
partially rescued the phenotypes in Chd7-null mouse embryos, demonstrating that
p53 contributes to the phenotypes that result from CHD7 loss. Thus, inappropriate
p53 activation during development can promote CHARGE phenotypes, supporting the
idea that p53 has a critical role in developmental syndromes and providing
important insight into the mechanisms underlying CHARGE syndrome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13585 
PMCID: PMC4192026
PMID: 25119037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):257-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13573. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

Required enhancer-matrin-3 network interactions for a homeodomain transcription
program.

Skowronska-Krawczyk D(1), Ma Q(1), Schwartz M(2), Scully K(1), Li W(1), Liu Z(1),
Taylor H(1), Tollkuhn J(1), Ohgi KA(1), Notani D(1), Kohwi Y(3), Kohwi-Shigematsu
T(3), Rosenfeld MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Medicine, School of
Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA
[2] The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University,
Ramat-Gan, 5290002, Israel.
(3)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2015;14(10):1487-8.

Homeodomain proteins, described 30 years ago, exert essential roles in
development as regulators of target gene expression; however, the molecular
mechanisms underlying transcriptional activity of homeodomain factors remain
poorly understood. Here investigation of a developmentally required
POU-homeodomain transcription factor, Pit1 (also known as Pou1f1), has revealed
that, unexpectedly, binding of Pit1-occupied enhancers to a nuclear matrin-3-rich
network/architecture is a key event in effective activation of the Pit1-regulated
enhancer/coding gene transcriptional program. Pit1 association with Satb1 (ref.
8) and β-catenin is required for this tethering event. A naturally occurring,
dominant negative, point mutation in human PIT1(R271W), causing combined
pituitary hormone deficiency, results in loss of Pit1 association with β-catenin 
and Satb1 and therefore the matrin-3-rich network, blocking Pit1-dependent
enhancer/coding target gene activation. This defective activation can be rescued 
by artificial tethering of the mutant R271W Pit1 protein to the matrin-3 network,
bypassing the pre-requisite association with β-catenin and Satb1 otherwise
required. The matrin-3 network-tethered R271W Pit1 mutant, but not the untethered
protein, restores Pit1-dependent activation of the enhancers and recruitment of
co-activators, exemplified by p300, causing both enhancer RNA transcription and
target gene activation. These studies have thus revealed an unanticipated
homeodomain factor/β-catenin/Satb1-dependent localization of target gene
regulatory enhancer regions to a subnuclear architectural structure that serves
as an underlying mechanism by which an enhancer-bound homeodomain factor
effectively activates developmental gene transcriptional programs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13573 
PMCID: PMC4358797
PMID: 25119036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):187-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13683. Epub 2014 Aug 6.

Inflammatory caspases are innate immune receptors for intracellular LPS.

Shi J(1), Zhao Y(2), Wang Y(3), Gao W(3), Ding J(4), Li P(3), Hu L(3), Shao F(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Peking University-Tsinghua University-National Institute of Biological
Sciences Joint Graduate Program, National Institute of Biological Sciences,
Beijing 102206, China [2] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing
102206, China [3].
(2)1] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China [2].
(3)National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China.
(4)1] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China [2]
National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(5)1] Peking University-Tsinghua University-National Institute of Biological
Sciences Joint Graduate Program, National Institute of Biological Sciences,
Beijing 102206, China [2] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing
102206, China [3] National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of
Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China [4] National
Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing, Collaborative Innovation Center for
Cancer Medicine, Beijing 102206, China.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2015 Feb;25(2):149-50.
    Trends Immunol. 2015 Feb;36(2):59-61.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Oct;12(10):658.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Sep;14(9):582.

The murine caspase-11 non-canonical inflammasome responds to various bacterial
infections. Caspase-11 activation-induced pyroptosis, in response to cytoplasmic 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), is critical for endotoxic shock in mice. The mechanism 
underlying cytosolic LPS sensing and the responsible pattern recognition receptor
are unknown. Here we show that human monocytes, epithelial cells and
keratinocytes undergo necrosis upon cytoplasmic delivery of LPS. LPS-induced
cytotoxicity was mediated by human caspase-4 that could functionally complement
murine caspase-11. Human caspase-4 and the mouse homologue caspase-11 (hereafter 
referred to as caspase-4/11) and also human caspase-5, directly bound to LPS and 
lipid A with high specificity and affinity. LPS associated with endogenous
caspase-11 in pyroptotic cells. Insect-cell purified caspase-4/11 underwent
oligomerization upon LPS binding, resulting in activation of the caspases.
Underacylated lipid IVa and lipopolysaccharide from Rhodobacter sphaeroides
(LPS-RS) could bind to caspase-4/11 but failed to induce their oligomerization
and activation. LPS binding was mediated by the CARD domain of the caspase.
Binding-deficient CARD-domain point mutants did not respond to LPS with
oligomerization or activation and failed to induce pyroptosis upon LPS
electroporation or bacterial infections. The function of caspase-4/5/11
represents a new mode of pattern recognition in immunity and also an
unprecedented means of caspase activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13683 
PMID: 25119034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):252-256. doi: 10.1038/nature13553. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

Mechanism of Dis3l2 substrate recognition in the Lin28-let-7 pathway.

Faehnle CR(#)(1)(2), Walleshauser J(#)(1)(3)(2), Joshua-Tor L(1)(3)(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)W. M. Keck Structural Biology Laboratory 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, 
NY 11724, USA.
(2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724,
USA.
(3)Watson School of Biological Science 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, NY
11724, USA.
(4)Howard Hughes Medical Institute 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724,
USA.
(#)Contributed equally

The pluripotency factor Lin28 inhibits the biogenesis of the let-7 family of
mammalian microRNAs. Lin28 is highly expressed in embryonic stem cells and has a 
fundamental role in regulation of development, glucose metabolism and tissue
regeneration. Overexpression of Lin28 is correlated with the onset of numerous
cancers, whereas let-7, a tumour suppressor, silences several human oncogenes.
Lin28 binds to precursor let-7 (pre-let-7) hairpins, triggering the 3'
oligo-uridylation activity of TUT4 and TUT7 (refs 10-12). The oligoU tail added
to pre-let-7 serves as a decay signal, as it is rapidly degraded by Dis3l2 (refs 
13, 14), a homologue of the catalytic subunit of the RNA exosome. The molecular
basis of Lin28-mediated recruitment of TUT4 and TUT7 to pre-let-7 and its
subsequent degradation by Dis3l2 is largely unknown. To examine the mechanism of 
Dis3l2 substrate recognition we determined the structure of mouse Dis3l2 in
complex with an oligoU RNA to mimic the uridylated tail of pre-let-7. Three
RNA-binding domains form an open funnel on one face of the catalytic domain that 
allows RNA to navigate a path to the active site different from that of its
exosome counterpart. The resulting path reveals an extensive network of
uracil-specific interactions spanning the first 12 nucleotides of an
oligoU-tailed RNA. We identify three U-specificity zones that explain how Dis3l2 
recognizes, binds and processes uridylated pre-let-7 in the final step of the
Lin28-let-7 pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13553 
PMCID: PMC4192074
PMID: 25119025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13796.

Direct observations of evolving subglacial drainage beneath the Greenland Ice
Sheet.

Andrews LC(1), Catania GA(1), Hoffman MJ(2), Gulley JD(3), Lüthi MP(4), Ryser
C(5), Hawley RL(6), Neumann TA(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Geophysics, Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of 
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78758, USA [2] Department of Geological Sciences, 
Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712, USA.
(2)1] Fluid Dynamics and Solid Mechanics Group, Los Alamos National Laboratory,
Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA [2] NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(3)1] Institute for Geophysics, Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of 
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78758, USA [2] Department of Geological and Mining
Engineering and Sciences, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, Michigan
49931, USA.
(4)1] Glaciology and Geomorphodynamics Group, Physical Geography Division,
Department of Geography, University of Zürich, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland [2]
Laboratory of Hydraulics, Hydrology and Glaciology, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology (ETH) Zürich, 8093 Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Laboratory of Hydraulics, Hydrology and Glaciology, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology (ETH) Zürich, 8093 Zürich, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Earth Sciences, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire 03755,
USA.
(7)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):38-9.

Seasonal acceleration of the Greenland Ice Sheet is influenced by the dynamic
response of the subglacial hydrologic system to variability in meltwater delivery
to the bed via crevasses and moulins (vertical conduits connecting supraglacial
water to the bed of the ice sheet). As the melt season progresses, the subglacial
hydrologic system drains supraglacial meltwater more efficiently, decreasing
basal water pressure and moderating the ice velocity response to surface melting.
However, limited direct observations of subglacial water pressure mean that the
spatiotemporal evolution of the subglacial hydrologic system remains poorly
understood. Here we show that ice velocity is well correlated with moulin
hydraulic head but is out of phase with that of nearby (0.3-2 kilometres away)
boreholes, indicating that moulins connect to an efficient, channelized component
of the subglacial hydrologic system, which exerts the primary control on diurnal 
and multi-day changes in ice velocity. Our simultaneous measurements of moulin
and borehole hydraulic head and ice velocity in the Paakitsoq region of western
Greenland show that decreasing trends in ice velocity during the latter part of
the melt season cannot be explained by changes in the ability of moulin-connected
channels to convey supraglacial melt. Instead, these observations suggest that
decreasing late-season ice velocity may be caused by changes in connectivity in
unchannelized regions of the subglacial hydrologic system. Understanding this
spatiotemporal variability in subglacial pressures is increasingly important
because melt-season dynamics affect ice velocity beyond the conclusion of the
melt season.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13796 
PMID: 25279921 


293. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13729.

Experimental realization of universal geometric quantum gates with solid-state
spins.

Zu C(1), Wang WB(1), He L(1), Zhang WG(1), Dai CY(1), Wang F(1), Duan LM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Quantum Information, IIIS, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084,
China.
(2)1] Center for Quantum Information, IIIS, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, 
China [2] Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan
48109, USA.

Experimental realization of a universal set of quantum logic gates is the central
requirement for the implementation of a quantum computer. In an 'all-geometric'
approach to quantum computation, the quantum gates are implemented using Berry
phases and their non-Abelian extensions, holonomies, from geometric
transformation of quantum states in the Hilbert space. Apart from its fundamental
interest and rich mathematical structure, the geometric approach has some
built-in noise-resilience features. On the experimental side, geometric phases
and holonomies have been observed in thermal ensembles of liquid molecules using 
nuclear magnetic resonance; however, such systems are known to be non-scalable
for the purposes of quantum computing. There are proposals to implement geometric
quantum computation in scalable experimental platforms such as trapped ions,
superconducting quantum bits and quantum dots, and a recent experiment has
realized geometric single-bit gates in a superconducting system. Here we report
the experimental realization of a universal set of geometric quantum gates using 
the solid-state spins of diamond nitrogen-vacancy centres. These diamond defects 
provide a scalable experimental platform with the potential for room-temperature 
quantum computing, which has attracted strong interest in recent years. Our
experiment shows that all-geometric and potentially robust quantum computation
can be realized with solid-state spin quantum bits, making use of recent advances
in the coherent control of this system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13729 
PMID: 25279920 


294. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):68-71. doi: 10.1038/nature13697.

Structure and evolution of the lunar Procellarum region as revealed by GRAIL
gravity data.

Andrews-Hanna JC(1), Besserer J(2), Head JW 3rd(3), Howett CJ(4), Kiefer WS(5),
Lucey PJ(6), McGovern PJ(5), Melosh HJ(7), Neumann GA(8), Phillips RJ(4), Schenk 
PM(5), Smith DE(9), Solomon SC(10), Zuber MT(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geophysics and Center for Space Resources, Colorado School of
Mines, Golden, Colorado 80401, USA.
(2)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Santa
Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(3)Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences, Brown University,
Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA.
(4)Planetary Science Directorate, Southwest Research Institute, Boulder, Colorado
80302, USA.
(5)Lunar and Planetary Institute, Houston, Texas 77058, USA.
(6)Hawaii Institute of Geophysics and Planetology, University of Hawaii,
Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.
(7)Department of Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences, Purdue University,
West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA.
(8)Solar System Exploration Division, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(9)Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139-4307, USA.
(10)1] Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of Washington,
Washington DC 20015, USA [2] Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia
University, Palisades, New York 10964, USA.

The Procellarum region is a broad area on the nearside of the Moon that is
characterized by low elevations, thin crust, and high surface concentrations of
the heat-producing elements uranium, thorium, and potassium. The region has been 
interpreted as an ancient impact basin approximately 3,200 kilometres in
diameter, although supporting evidence at the surface would have been largely
obscured as a result of the great antiquity and poor preservation of any
diagnostic features. Here we use data from the Gravity Recovery and Interior
Laboratory (GRAIL) mission to examine the subsurface structure of Procellarum.
The Bouguer gravity anomalies and gravity gradients reveal a pattern of narrow
linear anomalies that border Procellarum and are interpreted to be the frozen
remnants of lava-filled rifts and the underlying feeder dykes that served as the 
magma plumbing system for much of the nearside mare volcanism. The discontinuous 
surface structures that were earlier interpreted as remnants of an impact basin
rim are shown in GRAIL data to be a part of this continuous set of border
structures in a quasi-rectangular pattern with angular intersections, contrary to
the expected circular or elliptical shape of an impact basin. The spatial pattern
of magmatic-tectonic structures bounding Procellarum is consistent with their
formation in response to thermal stresses produced by the differential cooling of
the province relative to its surroundings, coupled with magmatic activity driven 
by the greater-than-average heat flux in the region.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13697 
PMID: 25279919 


295. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):65-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13789.

HCN ice in Titan's high-altitude southern polar cloud.

de Kok RJ(1), Teanby NA(2), Maltagliati L(3), Irwin PG(4), Vinatier S(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300 RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands [2] SRON Netherlands Institute for Space Research, Sorbonnelaan 2,
3584 CA Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building,
Queen's Road, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK.
(3)LESIA-Observatoire de Paris, CNRS, UPMC Université Paris 06, Université
Paris-Diderot, 5 place Jules Janssen, F-92195 Meudon, France.
(4)Atmospheric, Oceanic and Planetary Physics, Department of Physics, University 
of Oxford, Clarendon Laboratory, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):40-1.

Titan's middle atmosphere is currently experiencing a rapid change of season
after northern spring arrived in 2009 (refs 1, 2). A large cloud was observed for
the first time above Titan's southern pole in May 2012, at an altitude of 300
kilometres. A temperature maximum was previously observed there, and condensation
was not expected for any of Titan's atmospheric gases. Here we report that this
cloud is composed of micrometre-sized particles of frozen hydrogen cyanide (HCN
ice). The presence of HCN particles at this altitude, together with temperature
determinations from mid-infrared observations, indicate a dramatic cooling of
Titan's atmosphere inside the winter polar vortex in early 2012. Such cooling is 
in contrast to previously measured high-altitude warming in the polar vortex, and
temperatures are a hundred degrees colder than predicted by circulation models.
These results show that post-equinox cooling at the winter pole of Titan is much 
more efficient than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13789 
PMID: 25279918 


296. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):59-64. doi: 10.1038/nature13786.

Biogeography and individuality shape function in the human skin metagenome.

Oh J(1), Byrd AL(1), Deming C(1), Conlan S(1); NISC Comparative Sequencing
Program, Kong HH(2), Segre JA(3).

Collaborators: Barnabas B, Blakesley R, Bouffard G, Brooks S, Coleman H, Dekhtyar
M, Gregory M, Guan X, Gupta J, Han J, Ho SL, Legaspi R, Maduro Q, Masiello C,
Maskeri B, McDowell J, Montemayor C, Mullikin J, Park M, Riebow N, Schandler K,
Schmidt B, Sison C, Stantripop M, Thomas J, Thomas P, Vemulapalli M, Young A.

Author information: 
(1)Translational and Functional Genomics Branch, National Human Genome Research
Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)1] Dermatology Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, 
NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2].
(3)1] Translational and Functional Genomics Branch, National Human Genome
Research Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):44-5.

The varied topography of human skin offers a unique opportunity to study how the 
body's microenvironments influence the functional and taxonomic composition of
microbial communities. Phylogenetic marker gene-based studies have identified
many bacteria and fungi that colonize distinct skin niches. Here metagenomic
analyses of diverse body sites in healthy humans demonstrate that local
biogeography and strong individuality define the skin microbiome. We developed a 
relational analysis of bacterial, fungal and viral communities, which showed not 
only site specificity but also individual signatures. We further identified
strain-level variation of dominant species as heterogeneous and multiphyletic.
Reference-free analyses captured the uncharacterized metagenome through the
development of a multi-kingdom gene catalogue, which was used to uncover genetic 
signatures of species lacking reference genomes. This work is foundational for
human disease studies investigating inter-kingdom interactions, metabolic changes
and strain tracking, and defines the dual influence of biogeography and
individuality on microbial composition and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13786 
PMCID: PMC4185404
PMID: 25279917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):92-97. doi: 10.1038/nature13545. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Parent-of-origin-specific allelic associations among 106 genomic loci for age at 
menarche.

Perry JR(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Day F(#)(1), Elks CE(#)(1), Sulem P(#)(5), Thompson
DJ(6), Ferreira T(3), He C(7)(8), Chasman DI(9)(10), Esko T(11)(12)(13)(14),
Thorleifsson G(5), Albrecht E(15), Ang WQ(16), Corre T(17)(18), Cousminer DL(19),
Feenstra B(20), Franceschini N(21), Ganna A(22), Johnson AD(23), Kjellqvist
S(24), Lunetta KL(23)(25), McMahon G(26)(27), Nolte IM(28), Paternoster L(26),
Porcu E(29)(30), Smith AV(31)(32), Stolk L(33)(34), Teumer A(35), Tšernikova
N(11)(36), Tikkanen E(19)(37), Ulivi S(38), Wagner EK(7)(8), Amin N(39), Bierut
LJ(40), Byrne EM(41)(42), Hottenga JJ(43), Koller DL(44), Mangino M(4), Pers
TH(12)(13)(45)(46), Yerges-Armstrong LM(47), Zhao JH(1), Andrulis IL(48)(49),
Anton-Culver H(50), Atsma F(51), Bandinelli S(52)(53), Beckmann MW(54), Benitez
J(55)(56), Blomqvist C(57), Bojesen SE(58)(59), Bolla MK(6), Bonanni B(60),
Brauch H(61)(62), Brenner H(63)(64), Buring JE(9)(10), Chang-Claude J(65),
Chanock S(66), Chen J(67)(68), Chenevix-Trench G(69), Collée JM(70), Couch
FJ(71), Couper D(72), Coveillo AD(73), Cox A(74), Czene K(22), D'adamo
AP(38)(75), Smith GD(26)(27), De Vivo I(76)(77), Demerath EW(78), Dennis J(6),
Devilee P(79), Dieffenbach AK(63)(64), Dunning AM(80), Eiriksdottir G(31),
Eriksson JG(81)(82)(83)(84), Fasching PA(54), Ferrucci L(85), Flesch-Janys D(86),
Flyger H(87), Foroud T(44), Franke L(88), Garcia ME(89), García-Closas M(90)(91),
Geller F(20), de Geus EE(43)(92), Giles GG(93)(94), Gudbjartsson DF(5)(95),
Gudnason V(31)(32), Guénel P(96)(97), Guo S(98), Hall P(22), Hamann U(99), Haring
R(100), Hartman CA(101), Heath AC(102), Hofman A(103), Hooning MJ(104), Hopper
JL(94), Hu FB(76)(77)(105), Hunter DJ(13)(76)(77), Karasik D(10)(106), Kiel
DP(106)(107), Knight JA(108)(109), Kosma VM(110)(111), Kutalik Z(17)(18), Lai
S(29), Lambrechts D(112)(113), Lindblom A(114), Mägi R(11), Magnusson PK(22),
Mannermaa A(110)(111), Martin NG(69), Masson G(5), McArdle PF(47), McArdle
WL(27), Melbye M(20)(115), Michailidou K(6), Mihailov E(11)(36), Milani L(11),
Milne RL(93)(94), Nevanlinna H(116), Neven P(117), Nohr EA(118), Oldehinkel
AJ(119), Oostra BA(39), Palotie A(19)(120)(121)(122), Peacock M(123), Pedersen
NL(22), Peterlongo P(124), Peto J(125), Pharoah PD(80), Postma DS(126), Pouta
A(81)(127), Pylkäs K(128), Radice P(129), Ring S(26)(27), Rivadeneira
F(33)(34)(103), Robino A(38)(75), Rose LM(9), Rudolph A(65), Salomaa V(81), Sanna
S(29), Schlessinger D(130), Schmidt MK(131), Southey MC(132), Sovio U(133)(134), 
Stampfer MJ(76)(77)(105), Stöckl D(135)(136), Storniolo AM(123), Timpson
NJ(26)(27), Tyrer J(80), Visser JA(33), Vollenweider P(137), Völzke H(138)(139), 
Waeber G(137), Waldenberger M(140), Wallaschofski H(100)(139), Wang Q(6),
Willemsen G(43), Winqvist R(128), Wolffenbuttel BH(141), Wright MJ(142);
Australian Ovarian Cancer Study; GENICA Network; kConFab; LifeLines Cohort Study;
InterAct Consortium; Early Growth Genetics (EGG) Consortium, Boomsma DI(43),
Econs MJ(44)(123), Khaw KT(143), Loos RJ(1)(144), McCarthy MI(3)(145)(146),
Montgomery GW(142), Rice JP(40), Streeten EA(47)(147), Thorsteinsdottir U(5)(95),
van Duijn CM(34)(39)(148), Alizadeh BZ(28), Bergmann S(17)(18), Boerwinkle
E(149), Boyd HA(20), Crisponi L(29), Gasparini P(38)(75), Gieger C(15), Harris
TB(89), Ingelsson E(150), Järvelin MR(133)(151)(152)(153)(154), Kraft P(76)(155),
Lawlor D(26)(27), Metspalu A(11)(36), Pennell CE(16), Ridker PM(9)(10), Snieder
H(28), Sørensen TI(156)(157), Spector TD(4), Strachan DP(158), Uitterlinden
AG(33)(34)(103), Wareham NJ(1), Widen E(19), Zygmunt M(159), Murray A(2), Easton 
DF(6), Stefansson K(#)(5)(95), Murabito JM(#)(23)(160), Ong KK(#)(1)(161).

Collaborators: Cousminer DL, Stergiakouli E, Berry DJ, Ang W, Groen-Blokhuis MM, 
Körner A, Siitonen N, Ntalla I, Marinelli M, Perry JR, Kettunen J, Jansen R,
Surakka I, Timpson NJ, Ring S, McMahon G, Power C, Wang C, Kähönen M, Viikari J, 
Lehtimäki T, Middeldorp CM, Hulshoff Pol HE, Neef M, Weise S, Pahkala K,
Niinikoski H, Zeggini E, Panoutsopoulou K, Bustamante M, Penninx BW, Murabito J, 
Torrent M, Dedoussis GV, Kiess W, Boomsma DI, Pennell CE, Raitakari OT, Hyppönen 
E, Davey Smith G, Ripatti S, McCarthy MI, Widén E, Alizadeh BZ, de Boer RA,
Boezen HM, Bruinenberg M, Franke L, van der Harst P, Hillege HL, van der Klauw
MM, Navis G, Ormel J, Postma D, Rosmalen JG, Slaets JP, Snieder H, Stolk RP,
Wolffenbuttel BH, Wijmenga C, Forouhi N, Kerrison ND, Langenberg C, Scott RA,
Sharp SJ, Sims M, Barroso I, Deloukas P, McCarthy MI, Arriola L, Balkau B,
Barricarte A, Boeing H, Franks PW, Gonzalez C, Grioni S, Kaaks R, Key TJ, Navarro
C, Nilsson PM, Overvad K, Palli D, Panico S, Quirós J, Rolandsson O, Sacerdote C,
Sánchez MJ, Slimani N, Tjonneland A, Tumino R, van der A DL, van der Schouw YT,
Riboli E, Wareham NJ, Bowtell DD, Green A, Chenevix-Trench G, deFazio A, Gertig
D, Webb PM, Brauch H, Justenhoven C, Hamann U, Ko YD, Baisch C, Fischer HP, Pesch
B, Rabstein S, Spickenheuer A, Harth V, Aghmesheh M, Amor D, Andrews L, Antill Y,
Armitage S, Arnold L, Balleine R, Bankier A, Bastick P, Beesley J, Beilby J,
Bennett I, Bennett B, Berry G, Blackburn A, Bogwitz M, Brennan M, Brown M,
Buckley M, Burgess M, Burke J, Butow P, Byron K, Callen D, Campbell I, Chauhan D,
Chenevix-Trench G, Christian A, Clarke C, Colley A, Cotton D, Crook A, Cui J,
Culling B, Cummings M, Dawson SJ, deFazio A, Delatycki M, Dickson R, Dixon J,
Dobrovic A, Dudding T, Edkins T, Edwards S, Eisenbruch M, Farshid G, Fawcett S,
Fellows A, Fenton G, Field M, Firgaira F, Flanagan J, Fleming J, Fong P, Forbes
J, Fox S, French J, Friedlander M, Gaff C, Gardner M, Gattas M, George P, Giles
G, Gill G, Goldblatt J, Greening S, Grist S, Eric H, Hardie K, Harris M, Hart S, 
Hayward N, Healey S, Heiniger L, Hopper J, Humphrey E, Hunt C, James P, Jenkins
M, Jones A, Kefford R, Kidd A, Kiely B, Kirk J, Koehler J, Kollias J, Kovalenko
S, Lakhani S, Leaming A, Leary J, Lim J, Lindeman G, Lipton L, Lobb L, Mann G,
Marsh D, McLachlan SA, Meiser B, Meldrum C, Milne R, Mitchell G, Newman B,
O'Connell S, O'Loughlin I, Osborne R, Pachter N, Patterson B, Peters L, Phillips 
K, Price M, Purser L, Reeve J, Reeve T, Richards R, Rickard E, Robinson B, Rudzki
B, Saleh M, Salisbury E, Sambrook J, Saunders C, Saunus J, Sayer R, Scott E,
Scott R, Scott C, Seshadri R, Sexton A, Sharma R, Shelling A, Simpson P, Southey 
M, Spurdle A, Suthers G, Sykes P, Taylor D, Taylor J, Thierry B, Thompson E,
Thorne H, Townshend S, Trainer A, Tran L, Tucker K, Tyler J, Visvader J, Walker
L, Walpole I, Waring P, Warner B, Warren G, Williams R, Wilson J, Winship I, Wu
K, Young MA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine,
Box 285 Institute of Metabolic Science, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge,
CB2 0QQ, UK.
(2)University of Exeter Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK EX1 2LU.
(3)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College London,
London, UK.
(5)deCODE Genetics, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(6)Centre for Cancer Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and
Primary Care, University of Cambridge, UK.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, Indiana University Richard M. Fairbanks School of 
Public Health, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(8)Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon Cancer Center, Indianapolis, IN
46202, USA.
(9)Division of Preventive Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA
02215.
(10)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115.
(11)Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Tartu, 51010, Estonia.
(12)Divisions of Endocrinology and Genetics and Center for Basic and
Translational Obesity Research, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115,
USA.
(13)Broad Institute of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard
University, 140 Cambridge 02142, MA, USA.
(14)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(15)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München - German
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(16)School of Women's and Infants' Health, The University of Western Australia.
(17)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Lausanne, Lausanne,
Switzerland.
(18)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(19)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki,
Finland.
(20)Department of Epidemiology Research, Statens Serum Institut, DK-2300
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(21)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.
(22)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm 17177, Sweden.
(23)NHLBI's and Boston University's Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA.
(24)Science for Life Laboratory, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(25)Boston University School of Public Health, Department of Biostatistics.
Boston, MA.
(26)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(27)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Oakfield
House, Oakfield Grove, Bristol BS8 2BN, UK.
(28)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, University Medical
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(29)Institute of Genetics and Biomedical Research, National Research Council,
Cagliari, Italy.
(30)University of Sassari, Dept. Of Biomedical Sciences, Sassari, Italy.
(31)Icelandic Heart Association, Kopavogur, Iceland.
(32)University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(33)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(34)Netherlands Consortium on Health Aging and National Genomics Initiative,
Leiden, the Netherlands.
(35)Interfaculty Institute for Genetics and Functional Genomics, University
Medicine Greifswald, 17475 Greifswald, Germany.
(36)Department of Biotechnology, University of Tartu, Tartu, 51010, Estonia.
(37)Hjelt Institute, University of Helsinki, Finland.
(38)Institute for Maternal and Child Health - IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo" - Trieste,
Italy.
(39)Genetic Epidemiology Unit Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(40)Dept. of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63110.
(41)The University of Queensland, Queensland Brain Institute, St.Lucia, QLD,
Australia.
(42)QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(43)Department of Biological Psychology, VU University Amsterdam, van der
Boechorststraat 1, 1081 BT, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(44)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana USA.
(45)Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA 02142, US.
(46)Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, Department of Systems Biology,
Technical 142 University of Denmark, Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(47)Program in Personalized and Genomic Medicine, and Department of Medicine,
Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Nutrition - University of Maryland School
of Medicine, USA. Baltimore, MD 21201.
(48)Ontario Cancer Genetics Network, Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute of
Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(49)Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.
(50)Department of Epidemiology, University of California Irvine, Irvine,
California, USA.
(51)Sanquin Research, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(52)Tuscany Regional Health Agency, Florence, Italy, I.O.T. and Department of
Medical and Surgical Critical Care, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(53)Geriatric Unit, Azienda Sanitaria di Firenze, Florence, Italy.
(54)University Breast Center Franconia, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 
University Hospital Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Erlangen, Germany.
(55)Human Genetics Group, Human Cancer Genetics Program, Spanish National Cancer 
Research Centre (CNIO), Madrid, Spain.
(56)Centro de Investigación en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), Valencia,
Spain.
(57)Department of Oncology, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University
Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(58)Copenhagen General Population Study, Herlev Hospital, Copenhagen University
Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(59)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Herlev Hospital, Copenhagen University
Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(60)Division of Cancer Prevention and Genetics, Istituto Europeo di Oncologia
(IEO), Milan, Italy.
(61)Dr. Margarete Fischer-Bosch-Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Stuttgart.
(62)University of Tübingen, Germany.
(63)Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, German Cancer Research 
Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(64)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg, Germany.
(65)Division of Cancer Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
Heidelberg, Germany.
(66)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(67)Departments of Anatomy and Neurological Surgery, Indiana University school of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(68)Stark Neuroscience Research Center, Indiana University school of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(69)Department of Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
Australia.
(70)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(71)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, 
USA.
(72)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.
(73)Boston University School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Sections of
Preventive Medicine and Endocrinology, Boston, MA.
(74)Sheffield Cancer Research Centre, Department of Oncology, University of
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(75)Department of Clinical Medical Sciences, Surgical and Health, University of
Trieste, Italy.
(76)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA
02115, USA.
(77)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(78)Division of Epidemiology and Community Health, School of Public Health,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn., USA.
(79)Department of Human Genetics & Department of Pathology, Leiden University
Medical Center, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands.
(80)Centre for Cancer Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Oncology, University of
Cambridge, UK.
(81)National Institute for Health and Welfare, Finland.
(82)Department of General Practice and Primary health Care, University of
Helsinki, Finland.
(83)Helsinki University Central Hospital, Unit of General Practice, Helsinki,
Finland.
(84)Folkhalsan Research Centre, Helsinki, Finland.
(85)Longitudinal Studies Section, Clinical Research Branch, Gerontology Research 
Center, National Institute on Aging, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America.
(86)Department of Cancer Epidemiology/Clinical Cancer Registry and Institute for 
Medical Biometrics and Epidemiology, University Clinic Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg, Germany.
(87)Department of Breast Surgery, Herlev Hospital, Copenhagen University
Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(88)Department of Genetics, University of Groningen, University Medical Centre
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(89)National Insitute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD
20892, USA.
(90)Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, 
Surrey, UK.
(91)Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, Division of Breast Cancer
Research, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK.
(92)EMGO + Institute for Health and Care Research, VU University Medical Centre, 
Van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081 Bt, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(93)Cancer Epidemiology Centre, Cancer Council Victoria, Melbourne, Australia.
(94)Centre for Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Melbourne School of Population and
Global Health, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(95)Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, Reykjavik, Iceland.
(96)Inserm (National Institute of Health and Medical Research), CESP (Center for 
Research in Epidemiology and Population Health), U1018, Environmental
Epidemiology of Cancer, Villejuif, France.
(97)University Paris-Sud, UMRS 1018, Villejuif, France.
(98)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(99)Molecular Genetics of Breast Cancer, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum (DKFZ),
Heidelberg, Germany.
(100)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, University Medicine
Greifswald, 17475 Greifswald, Germany.
(101)Department of Psychiatry, University of Groningen, University Medical Center
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(102)Washington University, Department of Psychiatry, St.Louis, Missouri, USA.
(103)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdan, the Netherlands.
(104)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(105)Department of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA.
(106)Hebrew SeniorLife Institute for Aging Research, Boston, MA.
(107)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115.
(108)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute of Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.
(109)Division of Epidemiology, Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(110)School of Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, Pathology and Forensic
Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(111)Imaging Center, Department of Clinical Pathology, Kuopio University
Hospital, Kuopio, Finland.
(112)Vesalius Research Center (VRC), VIB, Leuven, Belgium.
(113)Laboratory for Translational Genetics, Department of Oncology, University of
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(114)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet,
Stockholm, Sweden.
(115)Department of Medicine, Stanford School of Medicine, Stanford, USA.
(116)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Helsinki and Helsinki
University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(117)KULeuven (University of Leuven), Department of Oncology, Multidisciplinary
Breast Center, University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium.
(118)Research Unit of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Institute of Clinical Research,
University of Southern denmark, DK.
(119)Interdisciplinary Center Psychopathology and Emotion Regulation, University 
of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(120)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(121)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA, 
USA.
(122)Psychiatric & Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Department of Psychiatry,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(123)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis,
Indiana USA.
(124)IFOM, Fondazione Istituto FIRC di Oncologia Molecolare, Milan, Italy.
(125)Non-communicable Disease Epidemiology Department, London School of Hygiene
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(126)University Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department
Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis, GRIAC Research Institute, Groningen, The
Netherlands.
(127)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oulu University Hospital, Finland.
(128)Laboratory of Cancer Genetics and Tumor Biology, Department of Clinical
Chemistry and Biocenter Oulu, University of Oulu, Oulu University
Hospital/NordLab Oulu, Oulu, Finland.
(129)Unit of Molecular Bases of Genetic Risk and Genetic Testing, Department of
Preventive and Predictive Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei
Tumori (INT), Milan, Italy.
(130)National Institute on Aging, Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, MD,
USA.
(131)Netherlands Cancer Institute, Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands.
(132)Department of Pathology, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(133)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, MRC Health Protection Agency
(HPA) Centre for Environment and Health, School of Public Health, Imperial
College London, UK.
(134)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(135)Institute of Epidemiology II, Helmholtz Zentrum München - German Research
Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(136)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Campus Grosshadern,
Ludwig-Maximilians- University, Munich, Germany.
(137)Department of Internal Medicine, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne,
Switzerland.
(138)Institute for Community Medicine, University Medicine Greifswald, 17475
Greifswald, Germany.
(139)DZHK (German Centre for Cardiovascular Research), partner site Greifswald,
17475 Greifswald, Germany.
(140)Research Unit of Molecular Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München - German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(141)Department of Endocrinology, University of Groningen, University Medical
Centre Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(142)Queensland Insitute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(143)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 0QQ, UK.
(144)Genetics of Obesity and Related Metabolic Traits Program, The Charles
Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, The Mindich Child Health and
Development Institute, Department of Preventive Medicine, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1003, New York, NY 10029,
USA.
(145)NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, Churchill Hospital, OX3 7LE Oxford, 
UK.
(146)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology, & Metabolism, University of
Oxford, Churchill Hospital, OX37LJ Oxford, UK.
(147)Geriatric Research and Education Clinical Center (GRECC) - Veterans
Administration Medical Center, USA. Baltimore, MD 21201.
(148)Centre of Medical Systems Biology, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(149)Human Genetics Center and Div. of Epidemiology, University of Houston, TX.
(150)Department of Medical Sciences, Molecular Epidemiology and Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(151)Institute of Health Sciences, P.O.Box 5000, FI-90014 University of Oulu,
Finland.
(152)Biocenter Oulu, P.O.Box 5000, Aapistie 5A, FI-90014 University of Oulu,
Finland.
(153)Department of Children and Young People and Families, National Institute for
Health and Welfare, Aapistie 1, Box 310, FI-90101 Oulu, Finland.
(154)Unit of Primary Care, Oulu University Hospital, Kajaanintie 50, P.O.Box 20, 
FI-90220 Oulu, 90029 OYS, Finland.
(155)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA
02115, USA.
(156)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Faculty of
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(157)Institute of Preventive Medicine, Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg Hospitals,
The Capital Region, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(158)Division of Population Health Sciences and Education, St George's,
University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London SW17 0RE, UK.
(159)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Medicine Greifswald,
17475 Greifswald, Germany.
(160)Boston University School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Section of
General Internal Medicine, Boston, MA.
(161)Department of Paediatrics,University of Cambridge,Cambridge,UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Age at menarche is a marker of timing of puberty in females. It varies widely
between individuals, is a heritable trait and is associated with risks for
obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, breast cancer and all-cause
mortality. Studies of rare human disorders of puberty and animal models point to 
a complex hypothalamic-pituitary-hormonal regulation, but the mechanisms that
determine pubertal timing and underlie its links to disease risk remain unclear. 
Here, using genome-wide and custom-genotyping arrays in up to 182,416 women of
European descent from 57 studies, we found robust evidence (P < 5 × 10(-8)) for
123 signals at 106 genomic loci associated with age at menarche. Many loci were
associated with other pubertal traits in both sexes, and there was substantial
overlap with genes implicated in body mass index and various diseases, including 
rare disorders of puberty. Menarche signals were enriched in imprinted regions,
with three loci (DLK1-WDR25, MKRN3-MAGEL2 and KCNK9) demonstrating
parent-of-origin-specific associations concordant with known parental expression 
patterns. Pathway analyses implicated nuclear hormone receptors, particularly
retinoic acid and γ-aminobutyric acid-B2 receptor signalling, among novel
mechanisms that regulate pubertal timing in humans. Our findings suggest a
genetic architecture involving at least hundreds of common variants in the
coordinated timing of the pubertal transition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13545 
PMCID: PMC4185210
PMID: 25231870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):122-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13771. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Sae2 promotes dsDNA endonuclease activity within Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 to resect DNA
breaks.

Cannavo E(1), Cejka P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Cancer Research, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):39-40.

To repair double-strand DNA breaks by homologous recombination, the 5'-terminated
DNA strand must first be resected, which generates 3' single-stranded DNA
overhangs. Genetic evidence suggests that this process is initiated by the
Mre11-Rad50-Xrs2 (MRX) complex. However, its involvement was puzzling, as the
complex possesses exonuclease activity with the opposite (3' to 5') polarity from
that required for homologous recombination. Consequently, a bidirectional model
has been proposed whereby dsDNA is first incised endonucleolytically and MRX then
proceeds back to the dsDNA end using its 3' to 5' exonuclease. The endonuclease
creates entry sites for Sgs1-Dna2 and/or Exo1, which then carry out long-range
resection in the 5' to 3' direction. However, the identity of the endonuclease
remained unclear. Using purified Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins, we show that 
Sae2 promotes dsDNA-specific endonuclease activity by the Mre11 subunit within
the MRX complex. The endonuclease preferentially cleaves the 5'-terminated dsDNA 
strand, which explains the polarity paradox. The dsDNA end clipping is strongly
stimulated by protein blocks at the DNA end, and requires the ATPase activity of 
Rad50 and physical interactions between MRX and Sae2. Our results suggest that
MRX initiates dsDNA break processing by dsDNA endonuclease rather than
exonuclease activity, and that Sae2 is the key regulator of this process. These
findings demonstrate a probable mechanism for the initiation of dsDNA break
processing in both vegetative and meiotic cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13771 
PMID: 25231868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13778. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Prevalence of viscoelastic relaxation after the 2011 Tohoku-oki earthquake.

Sun T(1), Wang K(2), Iinuma T(3), Hino R(3), He J(4), Fujimoto H(3), Kido M(3),
Osada Y(3), Miura S(5), Ohta Y(5), Hu Y(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of Victoria, Victoria, British 
Columbia V8P 5C2, Canada.
(2)1] School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of Victoria, Victoria,
British Columbia V8P 5C2, Canada [2] Pacific Geoscience Centre, Geological Survey
of Canada, Natural Resources Canada, 9860 West Saanich Road, Sidney, British
Columbia V8L 4B2, Canada.
(3)International Research Institute of Disaster Science, Tohoku University,
Sendai 980-0845, Japan.
(4)Pacific Geoscience Centre, Geological Survey of Canada, Natural Resources
Canada, 9860 West Saanich Road, Sidney, British Columbia V8L 4B2, Canada.
(5)Research Center for Prediction of Earthquakes and Volcanic Eruptions, Graduate
School of Science, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8578, Japan.
(6)Berkeley Seismological Laboratory and Department of Earth and Planetary
Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, California, California 94720, USA.

After a large subduction earthquake, crustal deformation continues to occur, with
a complex pattern of evolution. This postseismic deformation is due primarily to 
viscoelastic relaxation of stresses induced by the earthquake rupture and
continuing slip (afterslip) or relocking of different parts of the fault. When
postseismic geodetic observations are used to study Earth's rheology and fault
behaviour, it is commonly assumed that short-term (a few years) deformation near 
the rupture zone is caused mainly by afterslip, and that viscoelasticity is
important only for longer-term deformation. However, it is difficult to test the 
validity of this assumption against conventional geodetic data. Here we show that
new seafloor GPS (Global Positioning System) observations immediately after the
great Tohoku-oki earthquake provide unambiguous evidence for the dominant role of
viscoelastic relaxation in short-term postseismic deformation. These data reveal 
fast landward motion of the trench area, opposing the seaward motion of GPS sites
on land. Using numerical models of transient viscoelastic mantle rheology, we
demonstrate that the landward motion is a consequence of relaxation of stresses
induced by the asymmetric rupture of the thrust earthquake, a process previously 
unknown because of the lack of near-field observations. Our findings indicate
that previous models assuming an elastic Earth will have substantially
overestimated afterslip downdip of the rupture zone, and underestimated afterslip
updip of the rupture zone; our knowledge of fault friction based on these
estimates therefore needs to be revised.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13778 
PMID: 25231864 


300. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13680. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Evanescent-wave and ambient chiral sensing by signal-reversing cavity ringdown
polarimetry.

Sofikitis D(1), Bougas L(1), Katsoprinakis GE(2), Spiliotis AK(2), Loppinet B(3),
Rakitzis TP(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Electronic Structure and Laser, Foundation for Research and
Technology - Hellas, 71110 Heraklion, Greece [2] Department of Physics,
University of Crete, 71003 Heraklion, Greece [3].
(2)1] Institute of Electronic Structure and Laser, Foundation for Research and
Technology - Hellas, 71110 Heraklion, Greece [2] Department of Physics,
University of Crete, 71003 Heraklion, Greece.
(3)Institute of Electronic Structure and Laser, Foundation for Research and
Technology - Hellas, 71110 Heraklion, Greece.

Detecting and quantifying chirality is important in fields ranging from
analytical and biological chemistry to pharmacology and fundamental physics: it
can aid drug design and synthesis, contribute to protein structure determination,
and help detect parity violation of the weak force. Recent developments employ
microwaves, femtosecond pulses, superchiral light or photoionization to determine
chirality, yet the most widely used methods remain the traditional methods of
measuring circular dichroism and optical rotation. However, these signals are
typically very weak against larger time-dependent backgrounds. Cavity-enhanced
optical methods can be used to amplify weak signals by passing them repeatedly
through an optical cavity, and two-mirror cavities achieving up to 10(5) cavity
passes have enabled absorption and birefringence measurements with record
sensitivities. But chiral signals cancel when passing back and forth through a
cavity, while the ubiquitous spurious linear birefringence background is
enhanced. Even when intracavity optics overcome these problems, absolute
chirality measurements remain difficult and sometimes impossible. Here we use a
pulsed-laser bowtie cavity ringdown polarimeter with counter-propagating beams to
enhance chiral signals by a factor equal to the number of cavity passes
(typically >10(3)); to suppress the effects of linear birefringence by means of a
large induced intracavity Faraday rotation; and to effect rapid signal reversals 
by reversing the Faraday rotation and subtracting signals from the
counter-propagating beams. These features allow absolute chiral signal
measurements in environments where background subtraction is not feasible: we
determine optical rotation from α-pinene vapour in open air, and from
maltodextrin and fructose solutions in the evanescent wave produced by total
internal reflection at a prism surface. The limits of the present polarimeter,
when using a continuous-wave laser locked to a stable, high-finesse cavity,
should match the sensitivity of linear birefringence measurements
(3 × 10(-13) radians), which is several orders of magnitude more sensitive than
current chiral detection limits and is expected to transform chiral sensing in
many fields.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13680 
PMID: 25209661 


301. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):47-53. doi: 10.1038/nature13777. Epub 2014 Aug 29.

Reversion of advanced Ebola virus disease in nonhuman primates with ZMapp.

Qiu X(1), Wong G(2), Audet J(2), Bello A(2), Fernando L(1), Alimonti JB(1),
Fausther-Bovendo H(2), Wei H(3), Aviles J(1), Hiatt E(4), Johnson A(4), Morton
J(4), Swope K(4), Bohorov O(5), Bohorova N(5), Goodman C(5), Kim D(5), Pauly
MH(5), Velasco J(5), Pettitt J(6), Olinger GG(6), Whaley K(5), Xu B(7), Strong
JE(8), Zeitlin L(5), Kobinger GP(9).

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory for Zoonotic Diseases and Special Pathogens, Public Health
Agency of Canada, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 3R2, Canada.
(2)1] National Laboratory for Zoonotic Diseases and Special Pathogens, Public
Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 3R2, Canada [2] Department of
Medical Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0J9, Canada.
(3)1] National Laboratory for Zoonotic Diseases and Special Pathogens, Public
Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 3R2, Canada [2] Institute of
Infectious Disease, Henan Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Zhengzhou,
450012 Henan, China.
(4)Kentucky BioProcessing, Owensboro, Kentucky 42301, USA.
(5)Mapp Biopharmaceutical Inc., San Diego, California 92121, USA.
(6)1] United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases
(USAMRIID), Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA [2] Integrated Research Facility,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(7)Institute of Infectious Disease, Henan Centre for Disease Control and
Prevention, Zhengzhou, 450012 Henan, China.
(8)1] National Laboratory for Zoonotic Diseases and Special Pathogens, Public
Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 3R2, Canada [2] Department of
Medical Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0J9, Canada 
[3] Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, 
Manitoba R3A 1S1, Canada.
(9)1] National Laboratory for Zoonotic Diseases and Special Pathogens, Public
Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 3R2, Canada [2] Department of
Medical Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0J9, Canada 
[3] Department of Immunology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3E 0T5,
Canada [4] Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):41-3.
    Immunity. 2014 Oct 16;41(4):515-7.
    Nature. 2017 Jan 18;541(7637):283-285.

Without an approved vaccine or treatments, Ebola outbreak management has been
limited to palliative care and barrier methods to prevent transmission. These
approaches, however, have yet to end the 2014 outbreak of Ebola after its
prolonged presence in West Africa. Here we show that a combination of monoclonal 
antibodies (ZMapp), optimized from two previous antibody cocktails, is able to
rescue 100% of rhesus macaques when treatment is initiated up to 5 days
post-challenge. High fever, viraemia and abnormalities in blood count and blood
chemistry were evident in many animals before ZMapp intervention. Advanced
disease, as indicated by elevated liver enzymes, mucosal haemorrhages and
generalized petechia could be reversed, leading to full recovery. ELISA and
neutralizing antibody assays indicate that ZMapp is cross-reactive with the
Guinean variant of Ebola. ZMapp exceeds the efficacy of any other therapeutics
described so far, and results warrant further development of this cocktail for
clinical use.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13777 
PMCID: PMC4214273
PMID: 25171469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):117-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13578. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

Promoter sequences direct cytoplasmic localization and translation of mRNAs
during starvation in yeast.

Zid BM(1), O'Shea EK(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Faculty of Arts and Sciences Center for
Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Faculty of Arts and Sciences Center for
Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3]
Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [4] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

A universal feature of the response to stress and nutrient limitation is
transcriptional upregulation of genes that encode proteins important for
survival. Under many such conditions, the overall protein synthesis level is
reduced, thereby dampening the stress response at the level of protein
expression. For example, during glucose starvation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
(yeast), translation is rapidly repressed, yet the transcription of many stress- 
and glucose-repressed genes is increased. Here we show, using ribosomal profiling
and microscopy, that this transcriptionally upregulated gene set consists of two 
classes: one class produces messenger RNAs that are translated during glucose
starvation and are diffusely localized in the cytoplasm, including many
heat-shock protein mRNAs; and the other class produces mRNAs that are not
efficiently translated during glucose starvation and are concentrated in foci
that co-localize with P bodies and stress granules, a class that is enriched for 
mRNAs involved in glucose metabolism. Surprisingly, the information specifying
the differential localization and protein production of these two classes of mRNA
is encoded in the promoter sequence: promoter responsiveness to heat-shock factor
1 (Hsf1) specifies diffuse cytoplasmic localization and higher protein production
on glucose starvation. Thus, promoter sequences can influence not only the levels
of mRNAs but also the subcellular localization of mRNAs and the efficiency with
which they are translated, enabling cells to tailor protein production to the
environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13578 
PMCID: PMC4184922
PMID: 25119046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):102-106. doi: 10.1038/nature13596. Epub 2014 Aug 10.

A long noncoding RNA protects the heart from pathological hypertrophy.

Han P(1)(2), Li W(#)(1), Lin CH(#)(1), Yang J(1)(2), Shang C(1), Nuernberg ST(1),
Jin KK(1), Xu W(3), Lin CY(1), Lin CJ(1), Xiong Y(1), Chien H(1), Zhou B(4),
Ashley E(1), Bernstein D(5), Chen PS(2), Chen HV(6), Quertermous T(1), Chang
CP(2)(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305.
(2)Krannert Institute of Cardiology and Division of Cardiology, Department of
Medicine.
(3)Stanford Genome Technology Center, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA 94305.
(4)Department of Genetics, Pediatrics, and Medicine (Cardiology), Albert Einstein
College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, 1301 Morris Park Avenue, Price Center 
420, Bronx, NY 10461.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA
94305.
(6)Del E. Webb Neuroscience, Aging & Stem Cell Research Center, Sanford/Burnham
Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037.
(7)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
(8)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2015 Jan 16;116(2):235-6.
    Cell Cycle. 2015;14(6):787-8.
    Cell Metab. 2014 Oct 7;20(4):555-7.

The role of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) in adult hearts is unknown; also unclear 
is how lncRNA modulates nucleosome remodelling. An estimated 70% of mouse genes
undergo antisense transcription, including myosin heavy chain 7 (Myh7), which
encodes molecular motor proteins for heart contraction. Here we identify a
cluster of lncRNA transcripts from Myh7 loci and demonstrate a new
lncRNA-chromatin mechanism for heart failure. In mice, these transcripts, which
we named myosin heavy-chain-associated RNA transcripts (Myheart, or Mhrt), are
cardiac-specific and abundant in adult hearts. Pathological stress activates the 
Brg1-Hdac-Parp chromatin repressor complex to inhibit Mhrt transcription in the
heart. Such stress-induced Mhrt repression is essential for cardiomyopathy to
develop: restoring Mhrt to the pre-stress level protects the heart from
hypertrophy and failure. Mhrt antagonizes the function of Brg1, a
chromatin-remodelling factor that is activated by stress to trigger aberrant gene
expression and cardiac myopathy. Mhrt prevents Brg1 from recognizing its genomic 
DNA targets, thus inhibiting chromatin targeting and gene regulation by Brg1. It 
does so by binding to the helicase domain of Brg1, a domain that is crucial for
tethering Brg1 to chromatinized DNA targets. Brg1 helicase has dual
nucleic-acid-binding specificities: it is capable of binding lncRNA (Mhrt) and
chromatinized--but not naked--DNA. This dual-binding feature of helicase enables 
a competitive inhibition mechanism by which Mhrt sequesters Brg1 from its genomic
DNA targets to prevent chromatin remodelling. A Mhrt-Brg1 feedback circuit is
thus crucial for heart function. Human MHRT also originates from MYH7 loci and is
repressed in various types of myopathic hearts, suggesting a conserved lncRNA
mechanism in human cardiomyopathy. Our studies identify a cardioprotective
lncRNA, define a new targeting mechanism for ATP-dependent chromatin-remodelling 
factors, and establish a new paradigm for lncRNA-chromatin interaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13596 
PMCID: PMC4184960
PMID: 25119045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):112-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13541. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

Endothelial-cell FAK targeting sensitizes tumours to DNA-damaging therapy.

Tavora B(1), Reynolds LE(2), Batista S(2), Demircioglu F(2), Fernandez I(2),
Lechertier T(2), Lees DM(2), Wong PP(2), Alexopoulou A(1), Elia G(3), Clear A(4),
Ledoux A(5), Hunter J(5), Perkins N(5), Gribben JG(4), Hodivala-Dilke KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Adhesion and Angiogenesis Laboratory, Centre for Tumour Biology, Barts Cancer 
Institute, CR-UK Centre of Excellence, Queen Mary University of London,
Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.
(2)1] Adhesion and Angiogenesis Laboratory, Centre for Tumour Biology, Barts
Cancer Institute, CR-UK Centre of Excellence, Queen Mary University of London,
Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK [2].
(3)Barts Cancer Institute, CR-UK Centre of Excellence, Queen Mary University of
London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.
(4)Centre for Haemato-Oncology, Barts Cancer Institute, CR-UK Centre of
Excellence, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M
6BQ, UK.
(5)Institute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences (ICaMB), Medical School,
Newcastle University, Catherine Cookson Building, Framlington Place, Newcastle
upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

Chemoresistance is a serious limitation of cancer treatment. Until recently,
almost all the work done to study this limitation has been restricted to tumour
cells. Here we identify a novel molecular mechanism by which endothelial cells
regulate chemosensitivity. We establish that specific targeting of focal adhesion
kinase (FAK; also known as PTK2) in endothelial cells is sufficient to induce
tumour-cell sensitization to DNA-damaging therapies and thus inhibit tumour
growth in mice. The clinical relevance of this work is supported by our
observations that low blood vessel FAK expression is associated with complete
remission in human lymphoma. Our study shows that deletion of FAK in endothelial 
cells has no apparent effect on blood vessel function per se, but induces
increased apoptosis and decreased proliferation within perivascular tumour-cell
compartments of doxorubicin- and radiotherapy-treated mice. Mechanistically, we
demonstrate that endothelial-cell FAK is required for DNA-damage-induced NF-κB
activation in vivo and in vitro, and the production of cytokines from endothelial
cells. Moreover, loss of endothelial-cell FAK reduces DNA-damage-induced cytokine
production, thus enhancing chemosensitization of tumour cells to DNA-damaging
therapies in vitro and in vivo. Overall, our data identify endothelial-cell FAK
as a regulator of tumour chemosensitivity. Furthermore, we anticipate that this
proof-of-principle data will be a starting point for the development of new
possible strategies to regulate chemosensitization by targeting endothelial-cell 
FAK specifically.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13541 
PMCID: PMC4533916
PMID: 25079333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):54-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13556. Epub 2014 Jul 30.

Non-cell-autonomous driving of tumour growth supports sub-clonal heterogeneity.

Marusyk A(1), Tabassum DP(2), Altrock PM(3), Almendro V(1), Michor F(4), Polyak
K(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Department of Medicine, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] BBS Program, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)1] Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Biostatistics,
Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Program for
Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(4)1] Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Biostatistics,
Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Department of Medicine, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4] BBS Program, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [5] Harvard Stem Cell Institute and the 
Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2014 Oct;4(10):1109-10.

Cancers arise through a process of somatic evolution that can result in
substantial sub-clonal heterogeneity within tumours. The mechanisms responsible
for the coexistence of distinct sub-clones and the biological consequences of
this coexistence remain poorly understood. Here we used a mouse xenograft model
to investigate the impact of sub-clonal heterogeneity on tumour phenotypes and
the competitive expansion of individual clones. We found that tumour growth can
be driven by a minor cell subpopulation, which enhances the proliferation of all 
cells within a tumour by overcoming environmental constraints and yet can be
outcompeted by faster proliferating competitors, resulting in tumour collapse. We
developed a mathematical modelling framework to identify the rules underlying the
generation of intra-tumour clonal heterogeneity. We found that
non-cell-autonomous driving of tumour growth, together with clonal interference, 
stabilizes sub-clonal heterogeneity, thereby enabling inter-clonal interactions
that can lead to new phenotypic traits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13556 
PMCID: PMC4184961
PMID: 25079331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):107-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13483. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

DNA-damage-induced differentiation of leukaemic cells as an anti-cancer barrier.

Santos MA(1), Faryabi RB(2), Ergen AV(2), Day AM(2), Malhowski A(2), Canela A(1),
Onozawa M(3), Lee JE(4), Callen E(1), Gutierrez-Martinez P(5), Chen HT(1), Wong
N(1), Finkel N(1), Deshpande A(6), Sharrow S(7), Rossi DJ(5), Ito K(8), Ge K(4), 
Aplan PD(3), Armstrong SA(6), Nussenzweig A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genome Integrity, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)1] Laboratory of Genome Integrity, National Cancer Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2].
(3)The Genetics Branch, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Endocrinology and Receptor Biology, National Institute of
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(5)1] Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative
Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(6)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program and Department of Pediatrics, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(7)Experimental Immunology Branch, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(8)Ruth L. and David S. Gottesman Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative
Medicine Research, Departments of Cell Biology and Medicine, Albert Einstein
Cancer Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(18):2807-8.

Self-renewal is the hallmark feature both of normal stem cells and cancer stem
cells. Since the regenerative capacity of normal haematopoietic stem cells is
limited by the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and DNA double-strand
breaks, we speculated that DNA damage might also constrain leukaemic self-renewal
and malignant haematopoiesis. Here we show that the histone methyl-transferase
MLL4, a suppressor of B-cell lymphoma, is required for stem-cell activity and an 
aggressive form of acute myeloid leukaemia harbouring the MLL-AF9 oncogene.
Deletion of MLL4 enhances myelopoiesis and myeloid differentiation of leukaemic
blasts, which protects mice from death related to acute myeloid leukaemia. MLL4
exerts its function by regulating transcriptional programs associated with the
antioxidant response. Addition of reactive oxygen species scavengers or ectopic
expression of FOXO3 protects MLL4(-/-) MLL-AF9 cells from DNA damage and inhibits
myeloid maturation. Similar to MLL4 deficiency, loss of ATM or BRCA1 sensitizes
transformed cells to differentiation, suggesting that myeloid differentiation is 
promoted by loss of genome integrity. Indeed, we show that
restriction-enzyme-induced double-strand breaks are sufficient to induce
differentiation of MLL-AF9 blasts, which requires cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor p21(Cip1) (Cdkn1a) activity. In summary, we have uncovered an
unexpected tumour-promoting role of genome guardians in enforcing the
oncogene-induced differentiation blockade in acute myeloid leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13483 
PMCID: PMC4410707
PMID: 25079327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):98-101. doi: 10.1038/nature13498. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

The neurotrophic factor receptor RET drives haematopoietic stem cell survival and
function.

Fonseca-Pereira D(1), Arroz-Madeira S(1), Rodrigues-Campos M(2), Barbosa IA(2),
Domingues RG(2), Bento T(2), Almeida AR(2), Ribeiro H(2), Potocnik AJ(3), Enomoto
H(4), Veiga-Fernandes H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Avenida
Professor Egas Moniz, Edifício Egas Moniz, 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal [2].
(2)Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Avenida
Professor Egas Moniz, Edifício Egas Moniz, 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal.
(3)1] Division of Molecular Immunology, MRC National Institute for Medical
Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK [2] Institute of Immunology
and Infection Research, University of Edinburgh, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9
3JT, UK.
(4)1] Laboratory for Neuronal Differentiation and Regeneration, RIKEN Center for 
Developmental Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan [2] Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe
University7-5-1 Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku, Kobe City, Hyogo 650-0017, Japan.

Haematopoiesis is a developmental cascade that generates all blood cell lineages 
in health and disease. This process relies on quiescent haematopoietic stem cells
capable of differentiating, self renewing and expanding upon physiological
demand. However, the mechanisms that regulate haematopoietic stem cell
homeostasis and function remain largely unknown. Here we show that the
neurotrophic factor receptor RET (rearranged during transfection) drives
haematopoietic stem cell survival, expansion and function. We find that
haematopoietic stem cells express RET and that its neurotrophic factor partners
are produced in the haematopoietic stem cell environment. Ablation of Ret leads
to impaired survival and reduced numbers of haematopoietic stem cells with normal
differentiation potential, but loss of cell-autonomous stress response and
reconstitution potential. Strikingly, RET signals provide haematopoietic stem
cells with critical Bcl2 and Bcl2l1 surviving cues, downstream of p38
mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and cyclic-AMP-response element binding
protein (CREB) activation. Accordingly, enforced expression of RET downstream
targets, Bcl2 or Bcl2l1, is sufficient to restore the activity of Ret null
progenitors in vivo. Activation of RET results in improved haematopoietic stem
cell survival, expansion and in vivo transplantation efficiency. Remarkably,
human cord-blood progenitor expansion and transplantation is also improved by
neurotrophic factors, opening the way for exploration of RET agonists in human
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Our work shows that neurotrophic
factors are novel components of the haematopoietic stem cell microenvironment,
revealing that haematopoietic stem cells and neurons are regulated by similar
signals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13498 
PMID: 25079320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):88-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13538. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Molecular basis of adaptation to high soil boron in wheat landraces and elite
cultivars.

Pallotta M(1), Schnurbusch T(2), Hayes J(3), Hay A(3), Baumann U(3), Paull J(4), 
Langridge P(3), Sutton T(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics, School of Agriculture,
Food and Wine, University of Adelaide, Waite Campus, Urrbrae, South
Australia 5064, Australia [2].
(2)1] Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics, School of Agriculture,
Food and Wine, University of Adelaide, Waite Campus, Urrbrae, South
Australia 5064, Australia [2] Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant 
Research (IPK), Genebank Department, Corrensstrasse 3, D-06466 Gatersleben,
Germany [3].
(3)Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics, School of Agriculture, Food
and Wine, University of Adelaide, Waite Campus, Urrbrae, South Australia 5064,
Australia.
(4)School of Agriculture, Food and Wine, University of Adelaide, Waite Campus,
Urrbrae, South Australia 5064, Australia.

Environmental constraints severely restrict crop yields in most production
environments, and expanding the use of variation will underpin future progress in
breeding. In semi-arid environments boron toxicity constrains productivity, and
genetic improvement is the only effective strategy for addressing the problem.
Wheat breeders have sought and used available genetic diversity from landraces to
maintain yield in these environments; however, the identity of the genes at the
major tolerance loci was unknown. Here we describe the identification of
near-identical, root-specific boron transporter genes underlying the two
major-effect quantitative trait loci for boron tolerance in wheat, Bo1 and Bo4
(ref. 2). We show that tolerance to a high concentration of boron is associated
with multiple genomic changes including tetraploid introgression, dispersed gene 
duplication, and variation in gene structure and transcript level. An allelic
series was identified from a panel of bread and durum wheat cultivars and
landraces originating from diverse agronomic zones. Our results demonstrate that,
during selection, breeders have matched functionally different boron tolerance
alleles to specific environments. The characterization of boron tolerance in
wheat illustrates the power of the new wheat genomic resources to define key
adaptive processes that have underpinned crop improvement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13538 
PMID: 25043042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):543-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13739.

Island biogeography of the Anthropocene.

Helmus MR(1), Mahler DL(2), Losos JB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Amsterdam Global Change Institute, Department of Animal Ecology, Vrije
Universiteit, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Center for Population Biology, University of California, Davis, California
95616, USA.
(3)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology and Museum of Comparative
Zoology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):492.

For centuries, biogeographers have examined the factors that produce patterns of 
biodiversity across regions. The study of islands has proved particularly
fruitful and has led to the theory that geographic area and isolation influence
species colonization, extinction and speciation such that larger islands have
more species and isolated islands have fewer species (that is, positive
species-area and negative species-isolation relationships). However, experimental
tests of this theory have been limited, owing to the difficulty in experimental
manipulation of islands at the scales at which speciation and long-distance
colonization are relevant. Here we have used the human-aided transport of exotic 
anole lizards among Caribbean islands as such a test at an appropriate scale. In 
accord with theory, as anole colonizations have increased, islands impoverished
in native species have gained the most exotic species, the past influence of
speciation on island biogeography has been obscured, and the species-area
relationship has strengthened while the species-isolation relationship has
weakened. Moreover, anole biogeography increasingly reflects anthropogenic rather
than geographic processes. Unlike the island biogeography of the past that was
determined by geographic area and isolation, in the Anthropocene--an epoch
proposed for the present time interval--island biogeography is dominated by the
economic isolation of human populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13739 
PMID: 25254475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):534-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13779.

Flow in bedrock canyons.

Venditti JG(1), Rennie CD(2), Bomhof J(2), Bradley RW(1), Little M(1), Church
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geography, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia
V5A 1S6, Canada.
(2)Department of Civil Engineering, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario K1N
6N5, Canada.
(3)Department of Geography, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T 1Z2, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):490-1.

Bedrock erosion in rivers sets the pace of landscape evolution, influences the
evolution of orogens and determines the size, shape and relief of mountains. A
variety of models link fluid flow and sediment transport processes to bedrock
incision in canyons. The model components that represent sediment transport
processes are increasingly well developed. In contrast, the model components
being used to represent fluid flow are largely untested because there are no
observations of the flow structure in bedrock canyons. Here we present a
524-kilometre, continuous centreline, acoustic Doppler current profiler survey of
the Fraser Canyon in western Canada, which includes 42 individual bedrock
canyons. Our observations of three-dimensional flow structure reveal that, as
water enters the canyons, a high-velocity core follows the bed surface, causing a
velocity inversion (high velocities near the bed and low velocities at the
surface). The plunging water then upwells along the canyon walls, resulting in
counter-rotating, along-stream coherent flow structures that diverge near the
bed. The resulting flow structure promotes deep scour in the bedrock channel
floor and undercutting of the canyon walls. This provides a mechanism for channel
widening and ensures that the base of the walls is swept clear of the debris that
is often deposited there, keeping the walls nearly vertical. These observations
reveal that the flow structure in bedrock canyons is more complex than assumed in
the models presently used. Fluid flow models that capture the essence of the
three-dimensional flow field, using simple phenomenological rules that are
computationally tractable, are required to capture the dynamic coupling between
flow, bedrock erosion and solid-Earth dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13779 
PMID: 25254474 


311. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):526-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13785.

Water vapour absorption in the clear atmosphere of a Neptune-sized exoplanet.

Fraine J(1), Deming D(2), Benneke B(3), Knutson H(3), Jordán A(4), Espinoza N(4),
Madhusudhan N(5), Wilkins A(6), Todorov K(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Astronomy, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742-2421, USA [2] Instituto de Astrofísica, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, 7820436 Macul, Santiago, Chile [3] Division of Geological and Planetary
Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(2)1] Department of Astronomy, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742-2421, USA [2] NASA Astrobiology Institute's Virtual Planetary Laboratory,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(3)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(4)Instituto de Astrofísica, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, 7820436
Macul, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3
0HA, UK.
(6)Department of Astronomy, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742-2421, USA.
(7)Department of Physics, ETH Zürich, 8049 Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):493-4.

Transmission spectroscopy has so far detected atomic and molecular absorption in 
Jupiter-sized exoplanets, but intense efforts to measure molecular absorption in 
the atmospheres of smaller (Neptune-sized) planets during transits have revealed 
only featureless spectra. From this it was concluded that the majority of small, 
warm planets evolve to sustain atmospheres with high mean molecular weights
(little hydrogen), opaque clouds or scattering hazes, reducing our ability to
observe the composition of these atmospheres. Here we report observations of the 
transmission spectrum of the exoplanet HAT-P-11b (which has a radius about four
times that of Earth) from the optical wavelength range to the infrared. We
detected water vapour absorption at a wavelength of 1.4 micrometres. The
amplitude of the water absorption (approximately 250 parts per million) indicates
that the planetary atmosphere is predominantly clear down to an altitude
corresponding to about 1 millibar, and sufficiently rich in hydrogen to have a
large scale height (over which the atmospheric pressure varies by a factor of e).
The spectrum is indicative of a planetary atmosphere in which the abundance of
heavy elements is no greater than about 700 times the solar value. This is in
good agreement with the core-accretion theory of planet formation, in which a gas
giant planet acquires its atmosphere by accreting hydrogen-rich gas directly from
the protoplanetary nebula onto a large rocky or icy core.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13785 
PMID: 25254473 


312. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):547-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13776. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

A faster Rubisco with potential to increase photosynthesis in crops.

Lin MT(1), Occhialini A(2), Andralojc PJ(3), Parry MA(3), Hanson MR(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA [2].
(2)1] Plant Biology and Crop Science, Rothamsted Research, Harpenden,
Hertfordshire AL5 2JQ, UK [2].
(3)Plant Biology and Crop Science, Rothamsted Research, Harpenden, Hertfordshire 
AL5 2JQ, UK.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):497-8.

In photosynthetic organisms, D-ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase
(Rubisco) is the major enzyme assimilating atmospheric CO2 into the biosphere.
Owing to the wasteful oxygenase activity and slow turnover of Rubisco, the enzyme
is among the most important targets for improving the photosynthetic efficiency
of vascular plants. It has been anticipated that introducing the
CO2-concentrating mechanism (CCM) from cyanobacteria into plants could enhance
crop yield. However, the complex nature of Rubisco's assembly has made
manipulation of the enzyme extremely challenging, and attempts to replace it in
plants with the enzymes from cyanobacteria and red algae have not been
successful. Here we report two transplastomic tobacco lines with functional
Rubisco from the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC7942 (Se7942). We
knocked out the native tobacco gene encoding the large subunit of Rubisco by
inserting the large and small subunit genes of the Se7942 enzyme, in combination 
with either the corresponding Se7942 assembly chaperone, RbcX, or an internal
carboxysomal protein, CcmM35, which incorporates three small subunit-like
domains. Se7942 Rubisco and CcmM35 formed macromolecular complexes within the
chloroplast stroma, mirroring an early step in the biogenesis of cyanobacterial
β-carboxysomes. Both transformed lines were photosynthetically competent,
supporting autotrophic growth, and their respective forms of Rubisco had higher
rates of CO2 fixation per unit of enzyme than the tobacco control. These
transplastomic tobacco lines represent an important step towards improved
photosynthesis in plants and will be valuable hosts for future addition of the
remaining components of the cyanobacterial CCM, such as inorganic carbon
transporters and the β-carboxysome shell proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13776 
PMCID: PMC4176977
PMID: 25231869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):507-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13775. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Statin treatment rescues FGFR3 skeletal dysplasia phenotypes.

Yamashita A(1), Morioka M(1), Kishi H(1), Kimura T(2), Yahara Y(1), Okada M(1),
Fujita K(1), Sawai H(3), Ikegawa S(4), Tsumaki N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Induction and Regulation Field, Department of Cell Growth and
Differentiation, Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, 
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(2)1] Cell Induction and Regulation Field, Department of Cell Growth and
Differentiation, Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, 
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan [2] Department of Pediatrics, Osaka University Graduate
School of Medicine, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hyogo College of Medicine, Hyogo
663-8501, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Bone and Joint Diseases, Center for Integrated Medical Sciences,
RIKEN, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.
(5)1] Cell Induction and Regulation Field, Department of Cell Growth and
Differentiation, Center for iPS Cell Research and Application, Kyoto University, 
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan [2] Japan Science and Technology Agency, CREST, Tokyo
102-0075, Japan.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(24):3791-2.
    Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2015 Apr;23(4):503-6.
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):494-5.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Dec;10(12):701.

Gain-of-function mutations in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene
(FGFR3) result in skeletal dysplasias, such as thanatophoric dysplasia and
achondroplasia (ACH). The lack of disease models using human cells has hampered
the identification of a clinically effective treatment for these diseases. Here
we show that statin treatment can rescue patient-specific induced pluripotent
stem cell (iPSC) models and a mouse model of FGFR3 skeletal dysplasia. We
converted fibroblasts from thanatophoric dysplasia type I (TD1) and ACH patients 
into iPSCs. The chondrogenic differentiation of TD1 iPSCs and ACH iPSCs resulted 
in the formation of degraded cartilage. We found that statins could correct the
degraded cartilage in both chondrogenically differentiated TD1 and ACH iPSCs.
Treatment of ACH model mice with statin led to a significant recovery of bone
growth. These results suggest that statins could represent a medical treatment
for infants and children with TD1 and ACH.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13775 
PMID: 25231866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):501-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13704. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

Asian monsoons in a late Eocene greenhouse world.

Licht A(1), van Cappelle M(2), Abels HA(3), Ladant JB(4), Trabucho-Alexandre
J(5), France-Lanord C(6), Donnadieu Y(4), Vandenberghe J(7), Rigaudier T(6),
Lécuyer C(8), Terry D Jr(9), Adriaens R(10), Boura A(11), Guo Z(12), Soe AN(13), 
Quade J(14), Dupont-Nivet G(15), Jaeger JJ(16).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut de Paléoprimatologie, Paléontologie Humaine: Evolution et
Paléoenvironnements, UMR CNRS 7262, Université de Poitiers, 86000 Poitiers,
France [2] Centre de Recherches Pétrographiques et Géochimiques, UMR CNRS 7358,
Université de Lorraine 54501 Vandoeuvre les Nancy, France [3] Department of
Geosciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(2)1] Department of Earth Sciences, Universiteit Utrecht, 3584CD, Utrecht, The
Netherlands [2] Department of Earth Science and Engineering, Imperial College
London, London SW7 2AZ, UK.
(3)1] Department of Earth Sciences, Universiteit Utrecht, 3584CD, Utrecht, The
Netherlands [2] Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Katholieke
Universiteit Leuven, 3001 Leuven, Belgium.
(4)Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l'Environnement, UMR CNRS 8212, 91198
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.
(5)Department of Earth Sciences, Durham University, Durham DH1 3LE, UK.
(6)Centre de Recherches Pétrographiques et Géochimiques, UMR CNRS 7358,
Université de Lorraine 54501 Vandoeuvre les Nancy, France.
(7)Department of Earth Sciences, Vrije Universiteit, 1081HV Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(8)Laboratoire de Géologie de Lyon, Terre, Planètes, Environnement, UMR CNRS
5276, Université de Lyon, Institut Universitaire de France, 69622 Lyon, France.
(9)Department of Earth and Environmental Science, Temple University,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19122, USA.
(10)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Katholieke Universiteit
Leuven, 3001 Leuven, Belgium.
(11)Centre de Recherche sur la Paléodiversité et les Paléoenvironnements - UPMC, 
MNHN, CNRS, 75005 Paris, France.
(12)Key Laboratory of Orogenic Belts and Crustal Evolution, Peking University,
100871 Beijing, China.
(13)Department of Geology, Defence Services Academy, Pyin Oo Lwin, Myanmar.
(14)Department of Geosciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(15)1] Department of Earth Sciences, Universiteit Utrecht, 3584CD, Utrecht, The
Netherlands [2] Key Laboratory of Orogenic Belts and Crustal Evolution, Peking
University, 100871 Beijing, China [3] Géosciences Rennes, UMR CNRS 6118,
Université de Rennes, 35042 Rennes Cedex, France [4] Universität Potsdam,
Institute of Earth and Environmental Science, 14476 Potsdam, Germany.
(16)Institut de Paléoprimatologie, Paléontologie Humaine: Evolution et
Paléoenvironnements, UMR CNRS 7262, Université de Poitiers, 86000 Poitiers,
France.

The strong present-day Asian monsoons are thought to have originated between 25
and 22 million years (Myr) ago, driven by Tibetan-Himalayan uplift. However, the 
existence of older Asian monsoons and their response to enhanced greenhouse
conditions such as those in the Eocene period (55-34 Myr ago) are unknown because
of the paucity of well-dated records. Here we show late Eocene climate records
revealing marked monsoon-like patterns in rainfall and wind south and north of
the Tibetan-Himalayan orogen. This is indicated by low oxygen isotope values with
strong seasonality in gastropod shells and mammal teeth from Myanmar, and by
aeolian dust deposition in northwest China. Our climate simulations support
modern-like Eocene monsoonal rainfall and show that a reinforced hydrological
cycle responding to enhanced greenhouse conditions counterbalanced the negative
effect of lower Tibetan relief on precipitation. These strong monsoons later
weakened with the global shift to icehouse conditions 34 Myr ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13704 
PMID: 25219854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):530-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13698. Epub 2014 Sep 7.

Placing an upper limit on cryptic marine sulphur cycling.

Johnston DT(1), Gill BC(2), Masterson A(1), Beirne E(1), Casciotti KL(3), Knapp
AN(4), Berelson W(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)Department of Geosciences, Virginia Tech University, Blacksburg, Virginia
24061, USA.
(3)Department of Environmental Earth System Science, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32306, USA.
(5)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089, USA.

A quantitative understanding of sources and sinks of fixed nitrogen in low-oxygen
waters is required to explain the role of oxygen-minimum zones (OMZs) in
controlling the fixed nitrogen inventory of the global ocean. Apparent imbalances
in geochemical nitrogen budgets have spurred numerous studies to measure the
contributions of heterotrophic and autotrophic N2-producing metabolisms
(denitrification and anaerobic ammonia oxidation, respectively). Recently,
'cryptic' sulphur cycling was proposed as a partial solution to the fundamental
biogeochemical problem of closing marine fixed-nitrogen budgets in intensely
oxygen-deficient regions. The degree to which the cryptic sulphur cycle can fuel 
a loss of fixed nitrogen in the modern ocean requires the quantification of
sulphur recycling in OMZ settings. Here we provide a new constraint for OMZ
sulphate reduction based on isotopic profiles of oxygen ((18)O/(16)O) and sulphur
((33)S/(32)S, (34)S/(32)S) in seawater sulphate through oxygenated open-ocean and
OMZ-bearing water columns. When coupled with observations and models of sulphate 
isotope dynamics and data-constrained model estimates of OMZ water-mass residence
time, we find that previous estimates for sulphur-driven remineralization and
loss of fixed nitrogen from the oceans are near the upper limit for what is
possible given in situ sulphate isotope data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13698 
PMID: 25209667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):517-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13737. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Structural basis for the inhibition of the eukaryotic ribosome.

Garreau de Loubresse N(1), Prokhorova I(1), Holtkamp W(2), Rodnina MV(2),
Yusupova G(1), Yusupov M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), INSERM
U964, CNRS UMR7104, Université de Strasbourg, 67404, Illkirch, France.
(2)Department of Physical Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):491-2.

The ribosome is a molecular machine responsible for protein synthesis and a major
target for small-molecule inhibitors. Compared to the wealth of structural
information available on ribosome-targeting antibiotics in bacteria, our
understanding of the binding mode of ribosome inhibitors in eukaryotes is
currently limited. Here we used X-ray crystallography to determine 16
high-resolution structures of 80S ribosomes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae in
complexes with 12 eukaryote-specific and 4 broad-spectrum inhibitors. All
inhibitors were found associated with messenger RNA and transfer RNA binding
sites. In combination with kinetic experiments, the structures suggest a model
for the action of cycloheximide and lactimidomycin, which explains why
lactimidomycin, the larger compound, specifically targets the first elongation
cycle. The study defines common principles of targeting and resistance, provides 
insights into translation inhibitor mode of action and reveals the structural
determinants responsible for species selectivity which could guide future drug
development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13737 
PMID: 25209664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):523-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13662. Epub 2014 Aug 31.

Early turbulent mixing as the origin of chemical homogeneity in open star
clusters.

Feng Y(1), Krumholz MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of California, Santa
Cruz, California 95064, USA.

The abundances of elements in stars are critical clues to stars' origins.
Observed star-to-star variations in logarithmic abundance within an open star
cluster--a gravitationally bound ensemble of stars in the Galactic plane--are
typically only about 0.01 to 0.05 over many elements, which is noticeably smaller
than the variation of about 0.06 to 0.3 seen in the interstellar medium from
which the stars form. It is unknown why star clusters are so homogenous, and
whether homogeneity should also prevail in regions of lower star formation
efficiency that do not produce bound clusters. Here we report simulations that
trace the mixing of chemical elements as star-forming clouds assemble and
collapse. We show that turbulent mixing during cloud assembly naturally produces 
a stellar abundance scatter at least five times smaller than that in the gas,
which is sufficient to explain the observed chemical homogeneity of stars.
Moreover, mixing occurs very early, so that regions with star formation
efficiencies of about 10 per cent are nearly as well mixed as those with
formation efficiencies of about 50 per cent. This implies that even regions that 
do not form bound clusters are likely to be well mixed, and improves the
prospects of using 'chemical tagging' to reconstruct (via their unique chemical
signatures, or tags) star clusters whose constituent stars have become unbound
from one another and spread across the Galactic disk.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13662 
PMID: 25174709 


318. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):555-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13575. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

Antifungal drug resistance evoked via RNAi-dependent epimutations.

Calo S(1), Shertz-Wall C(1), Lee SC(1), Bastidas RJ(1), Nicolás FE(2), Granek
JA(3), Mieczkowski P(4), Torres-Martínez S(5), Ruiz-Vázquez RM(5), Cardenas
ME(1), Heitman J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(2)1] Regional Campus of International Excellence "Campus Mare Nostrum", Murcia
30100, Spain [2] Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Faculty of Biology,
University of Murcia, Murcia 30100, Spain.
(3)1] Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA [2] Department of Biostatistics and
Bioinformatics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA
[3] Duke Center for the Genomics of Microbial Systems, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(4)High-Throughput Sequencing Facility, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(5)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Faculty of Biology, University of
Murcia, Murcia 30100, Spain.

Microorganisms evolve via a range of mechanisms that may include or involve
sexual/parasexual reproduction, mutators, aneuploidy, Hsp90 and even prions.
Mechanisms that may seem detrimental can be repurposed to generate diversity.
Here we show that the human fungal pathogen Mucor circinelloides develops
spontaneous resistance to the antifungal drug FK506 (tacrolimus) via two distinct
mechanisms. One involves Mendelian mutations that confer stable drug resistance; 
the other occurs via an epigenetic RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated pathway
resulting in unstable drug resistance. The peptidylprolyl isomerase FKBP12
interacts with FK506 forming a complex that inhibits the protein phosphatase
calcineurin. Calcineurin inhibition by FK506 blocks M. circinelloides transition 
to hyphae and enforces yeast growth. Mutations in the fkbA gene encoding FKBP12
or the calcineurin cnbR or cnaA genes confer FK506 resistance and restore hyphal 
growth. In parallel, RNAi is spontaneously triggered to silence the fkbA gene,
giving rise to drug-resistant epimutants. FK506-resistant epimutants readily
reverted to the drug-sensitive wild-type phenotype when grown without exposure to
the drug. The establishment of these epimutants is accompanied by generation of
abundant fkbA small RNAs and requires the RNAi pathway as well as other factors
that constrain or reverse the epimutant state. Silencing involves the generation 
of a double-stranded RNA trigger intermediate using the fkbA mature mRNA as a
template to produce antisense fkbA RNA. This study uncovers a novel epigenetic
RNAi-based epimutation mechanism controlling phenotypic plasticity, with possible
implications for antimicrobial drug resistance and RNAi-regulatory mechanisms in 
fungi and other eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13575 
PMCID: PMC4177005
PMID: 25079329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):569-73. doi: 10.1038/nature13579. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

Structural basis of PAM-dependent target DNA recognition by the Cas9
endonuclease.

Anders C(1), Niewoehner O(1), Duerst A(1), Jinek M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

The CRISPR-associated protein Cas9 is an RNA-guided endonuclease that cleaves
double-stranded DNA bearing sequences complementary to a 20-nucleotide segment in
the guide RNA. Cas9 has emerged as a versatile molecular tool for genome editing 
and gene expression control. RNA-guided DNA recognition and cleavage strictly
require the presence of a protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) in the target DNA.
Here we report a crystal structure of Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 in complex with
a single-molecule guide RNA and a target DNA containing a canonical 5'-NGG-3'
PAM. The structure reveals that the PAM motif resides in a base-paired DNA
duplex. The non-complementary strand GG dinucleotide is read out via major-groove
interactions with conserved arginine residues from the carboxy-terminal domain of
Cas9. Interactions with the minor groove of the PAM duplex and the phosphodiester
group at the +1 position in the target DNA strand contribute to local strand
separation immediately upstream of the PAM. These observations suggest a
mechanism for PAM-dependent target DNA melting and RNA-DNA hybrid formation.
Furthermore, this study establishes a framework for the rational engineering of
Cas9 enzymes with novel PAM specificities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13579 
PMCID: PMC4176945
PMID: 25079318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):551-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13536. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

Glial origin of mesenchymal stem cells in a tooth model system.

Kaukua N(1), Shahidi MK(2), Konstantinidou C(3), Dyachuk V(4), Kaucka M(5),
Furlan A(6), An Z(7), Wang L(7), Hultman I(8), Ahrlund-Richter L(8), Blom H(9),
Brismar H(9), Lopes NA(6), Pachnis V(3), Suter U(10), Clevers H(11), Thesleff
I(12), Sharpe P(7), Ernfors P(6), Fried K(13), Adameyko I(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 17177, Sweden 
[2].
(2)1] Department of Dental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 17177,
Sweden [2].
(3)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, MRC National Institute for Medical
Research, London NW7 1AA, UK.
(4)1] Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm
17177, Sweden [2] A.V. Zhirmunsky Institute of Marine Biology of the Far Eastern 
Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Vladivostok 690041, Russia.
(5)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm
17177, Sweden.
(6)Unit of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 17177, Sweden.
(7)Department of Craniofacial Development and Stem Cell Biology, King's College
London Dental Institute, Guy's Hospital, London SE1 3QD, UK.
(8)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 
17177, Sweden.
(9)Science for Life Laboratory, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm 17177,
Sweden.
(10)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Health Sciences, ETH Zurich
CH-8093, Switzerland.
(11)1] Hubrecht Institute, Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen
(KNAW), PO Box 85164, 3508 AD Utrecht, the Netherlands [2] Department of
Molecular Genetics, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht 3508 GA, the
Netherlands.
(12)Institute of Biotechnology, Developmental Biology Program, University of
Helsinki, Helsinki FI-00014, Finland.
(13)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm 17177, Sweden.

Mesenchymal stem cells occupy niches in stromal tissues where they provide
sources of cells for specialized mesenchymal derivatives during growth and
repair. The origins of mesenchymal stem cells have been the subject of
considerable discussion, and current consensus holds that perivascular cells form
mesenchymal stem cells in most tissues. The continuously growing mouse incisor
tooth offers an excellent model to address the origin of mesenchymal stem cells. 
These stem cells dwell in a niche at the tooth apex where they produce a variety 
of differentiated derivatives. Cells constituting the tooth are mostly derived
from two embryonic sources: neural crest ectomesenchyme and ectodermal
epithelium. It has been thought for decades that the dental mesenchymal stem
cells giving rise to pulp cells and odontoblasts derive from neural crest cells
after their migration in the early head and formation of ectomesenchymal tissue. 
Here we show that a significant population of mesenchymal stem cells during
development, self-renewal and repair of a tooth are derived from peripheral
nerve-associated glia. Glial cells generate multipotent mesenchymal stem cells
that produce pulp cells and odontoblasts. By combining a clonal colour-coding
technique with tracing of peripheral glia, we provide new insights into the
dynamics of tooth organogenesis and growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13536 
PMID: 25079316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):538-42. doi: 10.1038/nature13486. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Brain structure resolves the segmental affinity of anomalocaridid appendages.

Cong P(1), Ma X(2), Hou X(1), Edgecombe GD(3), Strausfeld NJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Yunnan Key Laboratory for Palaeobiology, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091,
China.
(2)1] Yunnan Key Laboratory for Palaeobiology, Yunnan University, Kunming 650091,
China [2] Department of Earth Sciences, The Natural History Museum, Cromwell
Road, London SW7 5BD, UK.
(3)Department of Earth Sciences, The Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road,
London SW7 5BD, UK.
(4)1] Department of Neuroscience, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721,
USA [2] Center for Insect Science, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):E1-2.
    Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):E3-4.

Despite being among the most celebrated taxa from Cambrian biotas,
anomalocaridids (order Radiodonta) have provoked intense debate about their
affinities within the moulting-animal clade that includes Arthropoda. Current
alternatives identify anomalocaridids as either stem-group euarthropods,
crown-group euarthropods near the ancestry of chelicerates, or a segmented
ecdysozoan lineage with convergent similarity to arthropods in appendage
construction. Determining unambiguous affinities has been impeded by
uncertainties about the segmental affiliation of anomalocaridid frontal
appendages. These structures are variably homologized with jointed appendages of 
the second (deutocerebral) head segment, including antennae and 'great
appendages' of Cambrian arthropods, or with the paired antenniform frontal
appendages of living Onychophora and some Cambrian lobopodians. Here we describe 
Lyrarapax unguispinus, a new anomalocaridid from the early Cambrian Chengjiang
biota, southwest China, nearly complete specimens of which preserve traces of
muscles, digestive tract and brain. The traces of brain provide the first direct 
evidence for the segmental composition of the anomalocaridid head and its
appendicular organization. Carbon-rich areas in the head resolve paired
pre-protocerebral ganglia at the origin of paired frontal appendages. The ganglia
connect to areas indicative of a bilateral pre-oral brain that receives
projections from the eyestalk neuropils and compound retina. The dorsal,
segmented brain of L. unguispinus reinforces an alliance between anomalocaridids 
and arthropods rather than cycloneuralians. Correspondences in brain organization
between anomalocaridids and Onychophora resolve pre-protocerebral ganglia,
associated with pre-ocular frontal appendages, as characters of the last common
ancestor of euarthropods and onychophorans. A position of Radiodonta on the
euarthropod stem-lineage implies the transformation of frontal appendages to
another structure in crown-group euarthropods, with gene expression and
neuroanatomy providing strong evidence that the paired, pre-oral labrum is the
remnant of paired frontal appendages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13486 
PMID: 25043032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):564-568. doi: 10.1038/nature13577. Epub 2014 Jul
16.

The alarmin IL-33 promotes regulatory T-cell function in the intestine.

Schiering C(#)(1), Krausgruber T(#)(1), Chomka A(1), Fröhlich A(2), Adelmann
K(1), Wohlfert EA(3), Pott J(4), Griseri T(1), Bollrath J(1), Hegazy AN(1),
Harrison OJ(4), Owens BMJ(1), Löhning M(2), Belkaid Y(3), Fallon PG(5), Powrie
F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Gastroenterology Unit, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine,
Experimental Medicine Division, John Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX3 9DU, UK.
(2)Experimental Immunology, Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology,
Charité - University Medicine Berlin, and German Rheumatism Research Center
(DRFZ), Berlin, Germany.
(3)Program in Barrier Immunity and Repair, Mucosal Immunology Section, Laboratory
of Parasitic Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
(NIAID), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(4)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, 
Oxford, OX1 3RE, United Kingdom.
(5)Trinity Biomedical Sciences Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Pearse Street, 
Dublin, Ireland.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Sep;14(9):579.

FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells (Treg cells) are abundant in the intestine, where
they prevent dysregulated inflammatory responses to self and environmental
stimuli. It is now appreciated that Treg cells acquire tissue-specific
adaptations that facilitate their survival and function; however, key host
factors controlling the Treg response in the intestine are poorly understood. The
interleukin (IL)-1 family member IL-33 is constitutively expressed in epithelial 
cells at barrier sites, where it functions as an endogenous danger signal, or
alarmin, in response to tissue damage. Recent studies in humans have described
high levels of IL-33 in inflamed lesions of inflammatory bowel disease patients, 
suggesting a role for this cytokine in disease pathogenesis. In the intestine,
both protective and pathological roles for IL-33 have been described in murine
models of acute colitis, but its contribution to chronic inflammation remains ill
defined. Here we show in mice that the IL-33 receptor ST2 is preferentially
expressed on colonic Treg cells, where it promotes Treg function and adaptation
to the inflammatory environment. IL-33 signalling in T cells stimulates Treg
responses in several ways. First, it enhances transforming growth factor
(TGF)-β1-mediated differentiation of Treg cells and, second, it provides a
necessary signal for Treg-cell accumulation and maintenance in inflamed tissues. 
Strikingly, IL-23, a key pro-inflammatory cytokine in the pathogenesis of
inflammatory bowel disease, restrained Treg responses through inhibition of IL-33
responsiveness. These results demonstrate a hitherto unrecognized link between an
endogenous mediator of tissue damage and a major anti-inflammatory pathway, and
suggest that the balance between IL-33 and IL-23 may be a key controller of
intestinal immune responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13577 
PMCID: PMC4339042
PMID: 25043027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):559-63. doi: 10.1038/nature13490. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Functional polarization of tumour-associated macrophages by tumour-derived lactic
acid.

Colegio OR(1), Chu NQ(2), Szabo AL(2), Chu T(2), Rhebergen AM(2), Jairam V(2),
Cyrus N(2), Brokowski CE(2), Eisenbarth SC(3), Phillips GM(4), Cline GW(5),
Phillips AJ(4), Medzhitov R(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06519-1612, USA [2] Department of Dermatology, Yale University School
of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8059, USA [3] Yale-New Haven
Transplantation Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06519-1369, USA [4] Yale Cancer Center, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8028, USA.
(2)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06519-1612, USA.
(3)1] Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06519-1612, USA [2] Department of Laboratory Medicine, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8035, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520-8107, USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8020, USA.
(6)1] Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06519-1612, USA [2] Yale Cancer Center, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8028, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815-6789, USA.

Comment in
    Immunol Cell Biol. 2014 Sep;92(8):647-9.

Macrophages have an important role in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis. To
perform this function, macrophages must have the capacity to monitor the
functional states of their 'client cells': namely, the parenchymal cells in the
various tissues in which macrophages reside. Tumours exhibit many features of
abnormally developed organs, including tissue architecture and cellular
composition. Similarly to macrophages in normal tissues and organs, macrophages
in tumours (tumour-associated macrophages) perform some key homeostatic functions
that allow tumour maintenance and growth. However, the signals involved in
communication between tumours and macrophages are poorly defined. Here we show
that lactic acid produced by tumour cells, as a by-product of aerobic or
anaerobic glycolysis, has a critical function in signalling, through inducing the
expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and the M2-like polarization of 
tumour-associated macrophages. Furthermore, we demonstrate that this effect of
lactic acid is mediated by hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF1α). Finally, we show 
that the lactate-induced expression of arginase 1 by macrophages has an important
role in tumour growth. Collectively, these findings identify a mechanism of
communication between macrophages and their client cells, including tumour cells.
This communication most probably evolved to promote homeostasis in normal tissues
but can also be engaged in tumours to promote their growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13490 
PMCID: PMC4301845
PMID: 25043024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):512-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13495. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

Loss of oncogenic Notch1 with resistance to a PI3K inhibitor in T-cell leukaemia.

Dail M(1), Wong J(1), Lawrence J(1), O'Connor D(1), Nakitandwe J(2), Chen SC(2), 
Xu J(1), Lee LB(3), Akagi K(4), Li Q(5), Aster JC(6), Pear WS(7), Downing JR(2), 
Sampath D(3), Shannon K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Benniof Children's Hospital, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(3)Department of Translational Oncology, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Virology, Immunology and Medical Genetics, Ohio State 
University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.
(5)Division of Haematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Brigham &Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(7)Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute and the Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2014 Sep;4(9):OF14.

Mutations that deregulate Notch1 and Ras/phosphoinositide 3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt
signalling are prevalent in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL), and
often coexist. Here we show that the PI3K inhibitor GDC-0941 is active against
primary T-ALLs from wild-type and Kras(G12D) mice, and addition of the MEK
inhibitor PD0325901 increases its efficacy. Mice invariably relapsed after
treatment with drug-resistant clones, most of which unexpectedly had reduced
levels of activated Notch1 protein, downregulated many Notch1 target genes, and
exhibited cross-resistance to γ-secretase inhibitors. Multiple resistant primary 
T-ALLs that emerged in vivo did not contain somatic Notch1 mutations present in
the parental leukaemia. Importantly, resistant clones upregulated PI3K
signalling. Consistent with these data, inhibiting Notch1 activated the PI3K
pathway, providing a likely mechanism for selection against oncogenic Notch1
signalling. These studies validate PI3K as a therapeutic target in T-ALL and
raise the unexpected possibility that dual inhibition of PI3K and Notch1
signalling could promote drug resistance in T-ALL.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13495 
PMCID: PMC4213126
PMID: 25043004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):414-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13727.

Lethal aggression in Pan is better explained by adaptive strategies than human
impacts.

Wilson ML(1), Boesch C(2), Fruth B(3), Furuichi T(4), Gilby IC(5), Hashimoto
C(4), Hobaiter CL(6), Hohmann G(2), Itoh N(7), Koops K(8), Lloyd JN(9), Matsuzawa
T(10), Mitani JC(11), Mjungu DC(12), Morgan D(13), Muller MN(14), Mundry R(15),
Nakamura M(7), Pruetz J(16), Pusey AE(17), Riedel J(2), Sanz C(18), Schel AM(19),
Simmons N(9), Waller M(20), Watts DP(21), White F(20), Wittig RM(2), Zuberbühler 
K(22), Wrangham RW(23).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Anthropology, University of Minnesota, 395 Humphrey Center,
301 19th Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Department of
Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, 1987 Upper Buford
Circle, St Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.
(2)Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(3)1] Division of Neurobiology, Ludwig-Maximilians Universitaet Muenchen, Germany
[2] Centre for Research and Conservation, Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp,
Belgium.
(4)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi
484-8506, Japan.
(5)1] Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, 104 Biological
Sciences Building, Box 90383, Durham, North Carolina 27708-0680, USA [2] School
of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, PO Box 872402,
Tempe, Arizona 85287-2402, USA.
(6)School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St Andrews, Westburn
Lane, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9JP, UK.
(7)Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University, 2-24 Tanaka-Sekiden-Cho, Sakyo,
Kyoto, Japan.
(8)Division of Biological Anthropology, Department of Archaeology &Anthropology, 
University of Cambridge, Henry Wellcome Building, Fitzwilliam Street, Cambridge
CB2 1QH, UK.
(9)Zoology Department, Makerere University, P.O. Box 7062, Kampala, Uganda.
(10)1] Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 
484-8506, Japan [2] Japan Monkey Center, 26 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-0081,
Japan.
(11)Department of Anthropology, University of Michigan, 101 West Hall, 1085 S.
University Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(12)Gombe Stream Research Centre, The Jane Goodall Institute - Tanzania, P.O. Box
1182, Kigoma, Tanzania.
(13)The Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln
Park Zoo, Chicago, Illinois 60614, USA.
(14)Department of Anthropology, MSC01-1040, Anthropology 1, University of New
Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131, USA.
(15)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 
Leipzig, Germany.
(16)Department of Anthropology, Iowa State University, 324 Curtiss, Ames, Iowa
50011, USA.
(17)Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, 104 Biological
Sciences Building, Box 90383, Durham, North Carolina 27708-0680, USA.
(18)Department of Anthropology, Washington University in St Louis, Campus Mailbox
1114, One Brookings Drive, St Louis, Missouri 63130, USA.
(19)University of York, Department of Psychology, Heslington, York, YO10 5DD, UK.
(20)Department of Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97403, USA.
(21)Department of Anthropology, Yale University, 10 Sachem Street, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA.
(22)1] School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St Andrews, Westburn 
Lane, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9JP, UK [2] Université de Neuchâtel, Institut de
Biologie, Rue Emile-Argand 11, 2000 Neuchâtel, Switzerland.
(23)Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 11 Divinity
Avenue Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):321-2.

Observations of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and bonobos (Pan paniscus) provide 
valuable comparative data for understanding the significance of conspecific
killing. Two kinds of hypothesis have been proposed. Lethal violence is sometimes
concluded to be the result of adaptive strategies, such that killers ultimately
gain fitness benefits by increasing their access to resources such as food or
mates. Alternatively, it could be a non-adaptive result of human impacts, such as
habitat change or food provisioning. To discriminate between these hypotheses we 
compiled information from 18 chimpanzee communities and 4 bonobo communities
studied over five decades. Our data include 152 killings (n = 58 observed, 41
inferred, and 53 suspected killings) by chimpanzees in 15 communities and one
suspected killing by bonobos. We found that males were the most frequent
attackers (92% of participants) and victims (73%); most killings (66%) involved
intercommunity attacks; and attackers greatly outnumbered their victims (median
8:1 ratio). Variation in killing rates was unrelated to measures of human
impacts. Our results are compatible with previously proposed adaptive
explanations for killing by chimpanzees, whereas the human impact hypothesis is
not supported.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13727 
PMID: 25230664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):409-13. doi: 10.1038/nature13673.

Ancient human genomes suggest three ancestral populations for present-day
Europeans.

Lazaridis I(1), Patterson N(2), Mittnik A(3), Renaud G(4), Mallick S(1), Kirsanow
K(5), Sudmant PH(6), Schraiber JG(7), Castellano S(4), Lipson M(8), Berger B(9), 
Economou C(10), Bollongino R(5), Fu Q(11), Bos KI(3), Nordenfelt S(1), Li H(1),
de Filippo C(4), Prüfer K(4), Sawyer S(4), Posth C(3), Haak W(12), Hallgren
F(13), Fornander E(13), Rohland N(1), Delsate D(14), Francken M(15), Guinet
JM(16), Wahl J(17), Ayodo G(18), Babiker HA(19), Bailliet G(20), Balanovska
E(21), Balanovsky O(22), Barrantes R(23), Bedoya G(24), Ben-Ami H(25), Bene
J(26), Berrada F(27), Bravi CM(20), Brisighelli F(28), Busby GB(29), Cali F(30), 
Churnosov M(31), Cole DE(32), Corach D(33), Damba L(34), van Driem G(35), Dryomov
S(36), Dugoujon JM(37), Fedorova SA(38), Gallego Romero I(39), Gubina M(34),
Hammer M(40), Henn BM(41), Hervig T(42), Hodoglugil U(43), Jha AR(39),
Karachanak-Yankova S(44), Khusainova R(45), Khusnutdinova E(45), Kittles R(46),
Kivisild T(47), Klitz W(48), Kučinskas V(49), Kushniarevich A(50), Laredj L(51), 
Litvinov S(52), Loukidis T(53), Mahley RW(54), Melegh B(26), Metspalu E(55),
Molina J(56), Mountain J(57), Näkkäläjärvi K(58), Nesheva D(44), Nyambo T(59),
Osipova L(34), Parik J(55), Platonov F(60), Posukh O(34), Romano V(61),
Rothhammer F(62), Rudan I(63), Ruizbakiev R(64), Sahakyan H(65), Sajantila A(66),
Salas A(67), Starikovskaya EB(36), Tarekegn A(68), Toncheva D(44), Turdikulova
S(69), Uktveryte I(49), Utevska O(70), Vasquez R(71), Villena M(71), Voevoda
M(72), Winkler CA(73), Yepiskoposyan L(74), Zalloua P(75), Zemunik T(76), Cooper 
A(12), Capelli C(77), Thomas MG(78), Ruiz-Linares A(78), Tishkoff SA(79), Singh
L(80), Thangaraj K(81), Villems R(82), Comas D(83), Sukernik R(36), Metspalu
M(50), Meyer M(4), Eichler EE(84), Burger J(5), Slatkin M(48), Pääbo S(4), Kelso 
J(4), Reich D(85), Krause J(86).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. [2] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.
(2)Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(3)Institute for Archaeological Sciences, University of Tübingen, Tübingen 72074,
Germany.
(4)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig 04103, Germany.
(5)Institute of Anthropology, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz D-55128,
Germany.
(6)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(7)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA. [2] Department of Integrative Biology, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720-3140, USA.
(8)Department of Mathematics and Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence
Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA.
(9)1] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
[2] Department of Mathematics and Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence
Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA.
(10)Archaeological Research Laboratory, Stockholm University, 114 18, Sweden.
(11)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. [2] Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig
04103, Germany. [3] Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins of
Chinese Academy of Sciences, IVPP, CAS, Beijing 100049, China.
(12)Australian Centre for Ancient DNA and Environment Institute, School of Earth 
and Environmental Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia
5005, Australia.
(13)The Cultural Heritage Foundation, Västerås 722 12, Sweden.
(14)1] National Museum of Natural History, L-2160, Luxembourg. [2] National
Center of Archaeological Research, National Museum of History and Art, L-2345,
Luxembourg.
(15)Department of Paleoanthropology, Senckenberg Center for Human Evolution and
Paleoenvironment, University of Tübingen, Tübingen D-72070, Germany.
(16)National Museum of Natural History, L-2160, Luxembourg.
(17)State Office for Cultural Heritage Management Baden-Württemberg, Osteology,
Konstanz D-78467, Germany.
(18)Center for Global Health and Child Development, Kisumu 40100, Kenya.
(19)1] Institutes of Evolution, Immunology and Infection Research, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3JT, UK. [2]
Biochemistry Department, Faculty of Medicine, Sultan Qaboos University, Alkhod,
Muscat 123, Oman.
(20)Laboratorio de Genética Molecular Poblacional, Instituto Multidisciplinario
de Biología Celular (IMBICE), CCT-CONICET &CICPBA, La Plata, B1906APO, Argentina.
(21)Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Moscow 115478, Russia.
(22)1] Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Moscow 115478, Russia. [2] Vavilov
Institute for General Genetics, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(23)Escuela de Biología, Universidad de Costa Rica, San José 2060, Costa Rica.
(24)Institute of Biology, Research group GENMOL, Universidad de Antioquia,
Medellín, Colombia.
(25)Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa 31096, Israel.
(26)Department of Medical Genetics and Szentagothai Research Center, University
of Pécs, Pécs H-7624, Hungary.
(27)Al Akhawayn University in Ifrane (AUI), School of Science and Engineering,
Ifrane 53000, Morocco.
(28)Forensic Genetics Laboratory, Institute of Legal Medicine, Università
Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome 00168, Italy.
(29)1] Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK. [2]
Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN,
UK.
(30)Laboratorio di Genetica Molecolare, IRCCS Associazione Oasi Maria SS, Troina 
94018, Italy.
(31)Belgorod State University, Belgorod 308015, Russia.
(32)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L5, Canada.
(33)Servicio de Huellas Digitales Genéticas, School of Pharmacy and Biochemistry,
Universidad de Buenos Aires, 1113 CABA, Argentina.
(34)Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of
Sciences, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia.
(35)Institute of Linguistics, University of Bern, Bern CH-3012, Switzerland.
(36)Laboratory of Human Molecular Genetics, Institute of Molecular and Cellular
Biology, Russian Academy of Science, Siberian Branch, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia.
(37)Anthropologie Moléculaire et Imagerie de Synthèse, CNRS UMR 5288, Université 
Paul Sabatier Toulouse III, Toulouse 31000, France.
(38)North-Eastern Federal University and Yakut Research Center of Complex Medical
Problems, Yakutsk 677013, Russia.
(39)Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA.
(40)ARL Division of Biotechnology, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, 
USA.
(41)Department of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New
York 11794, USA.
(42)Department of Clinical Science, University of Bergen, Bergen 5021, Norway.
(43)NextBio, Illumina, Santa Clara, California 95050, USA.
(44)Department of Medical Genetics, National Human Genome Center, Medical
University Sofia, Sofia 1431, Bulgaria.
(45)1] Institute of Biochemistry and Genetics, Ufa Research Centre, Russian
Academy of Sciences, Ufa 450054, Russia. [2] Department of Genetics and
Fundamental Medicine, Bashkir State University, Ufa 450074, Russia.
(46)College of Medicine, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85724, USA.
(47)Division of Biological Anthropology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2
1QH, UK.
(48)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-3140, USA.
(49)Department of Human and Medical Genetics, Vilnius University, Vilnius
LT-08661, Lithuania.
(50)Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu, 51010, Estonia.
(51)Translational Medicine and Neurogenetics, Institut de Génétique et de
Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Illkirch 67404, France.
(52)1] Institute of Biochemistry and Genetics, Ufa Research Centre, Russian
Academy of Sciences, Ufa 450054, Russia. [2] Department of Genetics and
Fundamental Medicine, Bashkir State University, Ufa 450074, Russia. [3] Estonian 
Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu, 51010, Estonia.
(53)1] Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University College
London, London WC1E 6BT, UK. [2] Amgen, 33 Kazantzaki Str, Ilioupolis 16342,
Athens, Greece (T.L.); Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi 221 005, India (L.S.).
(54)Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(55)Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010,
Estonia.
(56)Centro de Investigaciones Biomédicas de Guatemala, Ciudad de Guatemala,
Guatemala.
(57)Research Department, 23andMe, Mountain View, California 94043, USA.
(58)Cultural Anthropology Program, University of Oulu, Oulu 90014, Finland.
(59)Department of Biochemistry, Muhimbili University of Health and Allied
Sciences, Dar es Salaam 65001, Tanzania.
(60)Research Institute of Health, North-Eastern Federal University, Yakutsk
677000, Russia.
(61)Dipartimento di Fisica e Chimica, Università di Palermo, Palermo 90128,
Italy.
(62)1] Instituto de Alta Investigación, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica 1000000,
Chile. [2] Programa de Genética Humana ICBM Facultad de Medicina Universidad de
Chile, Santiago 8320000, Chile. [3] Centro de Investigaciones del Hombre en el
Desierto, Arica 1000000, Chile.
(63)Centre for Population Health Sciences, The University of Edinburgh Medical
School, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, UK.
(64)1] Institute of Immunology, Academy of Science, Tashkent 70000, Uzbekistan.
[2].
(65)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu, 51010, Estonia. [2]
Laboratory of Ethnogenomics, Institute of Molecular Biology, National Academy of 
Sciences of Armenia, Yerevan 0014, Armenia.
(66)1] Department of Forensic Medicine, Hjelt Institute, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki 00014, Finland. [2] Institute of Applied Genetics, Department of
Molecular and Medical Genetics, University of North Texas Health Science Center, 
Fort Worth, Texas 76107, USA.
(67)Unidade de Xenética, Departamento de Anatomía Patolóxica e Ciencias Forenses,
and Instituto de Ciencias Forenses, Grupo de Medicina Xenómica (GMX), Facultade
de Medicina, Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Galcia 15872, Spain.
(68)Research Fellow, Henry Stewart Group, Russell House, London WC1A 2HN, UK.
(69)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry Academy of Sciences Republic of Uzbekistan,
Tashkent 100125, Uzbekistan.
(70)Department of Genetics and Cytology, V. N. Karazin Kharkiv National
University, Kharkiv 61077, Ukraine.
(71)1] Instituto Boliviano de Biología de la Altura, Universidad Mayor de San
Andrés, 591 2 La Paz, Bolivia. [2] UniversidadAutonoma Tomás Frías, Potosí,
Bolivia.
(72)1] Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia. [2] Institute of Internal Medicine,
Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, Novosibirsk 630089,
Russia. [3] Novosibirsk State University, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia.
(73)Basic Research Laboratory, NCI, NIH, Frederick National Laboratory, Leidos
Biomedical, Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(74)Laboratory of Ethnogenomics, Institute of Molecular Biology, National Academy
of Sciences of Armenia, Yerevan 0014, Armenia.
(75)1] Lebanese American University, School of Medicine, Beirut 13-5053, Lebanon.
[2] Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(76)Department of Medical Biology, University of Split, School of Medicine, Split
21000, Croatia.
(77)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK.
(78)Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University College London,
London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(79)Department of Biology and Genetics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(80)1] CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad 500 007, India. 
[2] Amgen, 33 Kazantzaki Str, Ilioupolis 16342, Athens, Greece (T.L.); Banaras
Hindu University, Varanasi 221 005, India (L.S.).
(81)CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad 500 007, India.
(82)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu, 51010, Estonia. [2]
Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010, Estonia.
[3] Estonian Academy of Sciences, Tallinn 10130, Estonia.
(83)Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (CSIC-UPF), Departament de Ciències
Experimentals i de la Salut, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona 08003, Spain.
(84)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA. [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(85)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. [2] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA. [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(86)1] Institute for Archaeological Sciences, University of Tübingen, Tübingen
72074, Germany. [2] Senckenberg Centre for Human Evolution and Palaeoenvironment,
University of Tübingen, 72070 Tübingen, Germany. [3] Max Planck Institut für
Geschichte und Naturwissenschaften, Jena 07745, Germany.

We sequenced the genomes of a ∼7,000-year-old farmer from Germany and eight
∼8,000-year-old hunter-gatherers from Luxembourg and Sweden. We analysed these
and other ancient genomes with 2,345 contemporary humans to show that most
present-day Europeans derive from at least three highly differentiated
populations: west European hunter-gatherers, who contributed ancestry to all
Europeans but not to Near Easterners; ancient north Eurasians related to Upper
Palaeolithic Siberians, who contributed to both Europeans and Near Easterners;
and early European farmers, who were mainly of Near Eastern origin but also
harboured west European hunter-gatherer related ancestry. We model these
populations' deep relationships and show that early European farmers had ∼44%
ancestry from a 'basal Eurasian' population that split before the diversification
of other non-African lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13673 
PMCID: PMC4170574
PMID: 25230663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):405-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13728.

Spreading continents kick-started plate tectonics.

Rey PF(1), Coltice N(2), Flament N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Earthbyte Research Group, School of Geosciences, The University of Sydney,
Sydney NSW 2006, Australia.
(2)1] Laboratoire de Géologie de Lyon, UMR 5276 CNRS, Université Lyon 1, Ecole
Normale Supérieure de Lyon, 69622 Villeurbanne Cedex, France [2] Institut
Universitaire de France, 75005 Paris, France.

Stresses acting on cold, thick and negatively buoyant oceanic lithosphere are
thought to be crucial to the initiation of subduction and the operation of plate 
tectonics, which characterizes the present-day geodynamics of the Earth. Because 
the Earth's interior was hotter in the Archaean eon, the oceanic crust may have
been thicker, thereby making the oceanic lithosphere more buoyant than at
present, and whether subduction and plate tectonics occurred during this time is 
ambiguous, both in the geological record and in geodynamic models. Here we show
that because the oceanic crust was thick and buoyant, early continents may have
produced intra-lithospheric gravitational stresses large enough to drive their
gravitational spreading, to initiate subduction at their margins and to trigger
episodes of subduction. Our model predicts the co-occurrence of deep to
progressively shallower mafic volcanics and arc magmatism within continents in a 
self-consistent geodynamic framework, explaining the enigmatic multimodal
volcanism and tectonic record of Archaean cratons. Moreover, our model predicts a
petrological stratification and tectonic structure of the sub-continental
lithospheric mantle, two predictions that are consistent with xenolith and
seismic studies, respectively, and consistent with the existence of a
mid-lithospheric seismic discontinuity. The slow gravitational collapse of early 
continents could have kick-started transient episodes of plate tectonics until,
as the Earth's interior cooled and oceanic lithosphere became heavier, plate
tectonics became self-sustaining.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13728 
PMID: 25230662 


328. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):401-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13705.

Aridification of the Sahara desert caused by Tethys Sea shrinkage during the Late
Miocene.

Zhang Z(1), Ramstein G(2), Schuster M(3), Li C(4), Contoux C(5), Yan Q(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Bjerknes Centre for Climate Research, Uni Research Climate, Allégaten 70,
5007 Bergen, Norway [2] Nansen-Zhu International Research Centre, Institute of
Atmospheric Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 100029 Beijing, China.
(2)Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l'Environnement/IPSL, CEA-CNRS-UVSQ, 
UMR8212, Orme des Merisiers, CE Saclay, 91191 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France.
(3)Institut de Physique du Globe de Strasbourg (UMR 7516), École et Observatoire 
des Sciences de la Terre, CNRS and Université de Strasbourg, 1 rue Blessig, 67084
Strasbourg Cedex, France.
(4)Bjerknes Centre for Climate Research, Geophysical Institute, University of
Bergen, Allégaten 70, 5007 Bergen, Norway.
(5)Bjerknes Centre for Climate Research, Uni Research Climate, Allégaten 70, 5007
Bergen, Norway.
(6)Nansen-Zhu International Research Centre, Institute of Atmospheric Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 100029 Beijing, China.

It is widely believed that the Sahara desert is no more than ∼2-3 million years
(Myr) old, with geological evidence showing a remarkable aridification of north
Africa at the onset of the Quaternary ice ages. Before that time, north African
aridity was mainly controlled by the African summer monsoon (ASM), which
oscillated with Earth's orbital precession cycles. Afterwards, the Northern
Hemisphere glaciation added an ice volume forcing on the ASM, which additionally 
oscillated with glacial-interglacial cycles. These findings led to the idea that 
the Sahara desert came into existence when the Northern Hemisphere glaciated
∼2-3 Myr ago. The later discovery, however, of aeolian dune deposits ∼7 Myr old
suggested a much older age, although this interpretation is hotly challenged and 
there is no clear mechanism for aridification around this time. Here we use
climate model simulations to identify the Tortonian stage (∼7-11 Myr ago) of the 
Late Miocene epoch as the pivotal period for triggering north African aridity and
creating the Sahara desert. Through a set of experiments with the Norwegian Earth
System Model and the Community Atmosphere Model, we demonstrate that the African 
summer monsoon was drastically weakened by the Tethys Sea shrinkage during the
Tortonian, allowing arid, desert conditions to expand across north Africa. Not
only did the Tethys shrinkage alter the mean climate of the region, it also
enhanced the sensitivity of the African monsoon to orbital forcing, which
subsequently became the major driver of Sahara extent fluctuations. These
important climatic changes probably caused the shifts in Asian and African flora 
and fauna observed during the same period, with possible links to the emergence
of early hominins in north Africa.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13705 
PMID: 25230661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):398-400. doi: 10.1038/nature13762.

A supermassive black hole in an ultra-compact dwarf galaxy.

Seth AC(1), van den Bosch R(2), Mieske S(3), Baumgardt H(4), den Brok M(1),
Strader J(5), Neumayer N(6), Chilingarian I(7), Hilker M(8), McDermid R(9),
Spitler L(9), Brodie J(10), Frank MJ(11), Walsh JL(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Utah, 115 South 1400 East, 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.
(2)Max-Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(3)European Southern Observatory, Alonso de Cordova 3107, Vitacura, Santiago,
7630355, Chile.
(4)School of Mathematics and Physics, University of Queensland, St Lucia,
Queensland 4072, Australia.
(5)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
Michigan 48824, USA.
(6)1] Max-Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] European Southern Observatory, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 2, 85748
Garching bei München, Germany.
(7)1] Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 60 Garden Street MS09, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Sternberg Astronomical Institute, Moscow State
University, 13 Universitetski prospect, Moscow 119992, Russia.
(8)European Southern Observatory, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 2, 85748 Garching
bei München, Germany.
(9)1] Australian Astronomical Observatory, 105 Delhi Road, Sydney, New South
Wales 2113, Australia [2] Department of Physics and Astronomy, Macquarie
University, Sydney, New South Wales 2109, Australia.
(10)University of California Observatories and Department of Astronomy and
Astrophysics, University of California, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(11)Landessternwarte, Zentrum für Astronomie der Universität Heidelberg,
Königsstuhl 12, D-69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(12)Department of Astronomy, The University of Texas at Austin, 1 University
Station C1400, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):322-3.

Ultra-compact dwarf galaxies are among the densest stellar systems in the
Universe. These systems have masses of up to 2 × 10(8) solar masses, but
half-light radii of just 3-50 parsecs. Dynamical mass estimates show that many
such dwarfs are more massive than expected from their luminosity. It remains
unclear whether these high dynamical mass estimates arise because of the presence
of supermassive black holes or result from a non-standard stellar initial mass
function that causes the average stellar mass to be higher than expected. Here we
report adaptive optics kinematic data of the ultra-compact dwarf galaxy M60-UCD1 
that show a central velocity dispersion peak exceeding 100 kilometres per second 
and modest rotation. Dynamical modelling of these data reveals the presence of a 
supermassive black hole with a mass of 2.1 × 10(7) solar masses. This is 15 per
cent of the object's total mass. The high black hole mass and mass fraction
suggest that M60-UCD1 is the stripped nucleus of a galaxy. Our analysis also
shows that M60-UCD1's stellar mass is consistent with its luminosity, implying a 
large population of previously unrecognized supermassive black holes in other
ultra-compact dwarf galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13762 
PMID: 25230660 


330. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):367-74. doi: 10.1038/nature13735.

Multifunctional organoboron compounds for scalable natural product synthesis.

Meng F(1), McGrath KP(1), Hoveyda AH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Merkert Chemistry Center, Boston College, Chestnut
Hill, Massachusetts 02467, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):324-5.

Efficient catalytic reactions that can generate C-C bonds enantioselectively, and
ones that can produce trisubstituted alkenes diastereoselectively, are central to
research in organic chemistry. Transformations that accomplish these two tasks
simultaneously are in high demand, particularly if the catalysts, substrates and 
reagents are inexpensive and if the reaction conditions are mild. Here we report 
a facile multicomponent catalytic process that begins with a chemoselective,
site-selective and diastereoselective copper-boron addition to a monosubstituted 
allene; the resulting boron-substituted organocopper intermediates then
participate in a similarly selective allylic substitution. The products, which
contain a stereogenic carbon centre, a monosubstituted alkene and an easily
functionalizable Z-trisubstituted alkenylboron group, are obtained in up to 89
per cent yield, with more than 98 per cent branch-selectivity and
stereoselectivity and an enantiomeric ratio greater than 99:1. The copper-based
catalyst is derived from a robust heterocyclic salt that can be prepared in
multigram quantities from inexpensive starting materials and without costly
purification procedures. The utility of the approach is demonstrated through
enantioselective synthesis of gram quantities of two natural products, namely
rottnestol and herboxidiene (also known as GEX1A).

DOI: 10.1038/nature13735 
PMCID: PMC4267680
PMID: 25230659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):358-66. doi: 10.1038/nature13784.

Instrumentation for the detection and characterization of exoplanets.

Pepe F(1), Ehrenreich D(1), Meyer MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Observatoire Astronomique de l'Université de Genève, 51 Chemin des Maillettes,
1290 Versoix, Switzerland.
(2)Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Institute for Astronomy,
Wolfgang-Pauli-Strasse 27, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

In no other field of astrophysics has the impact of new instrumentation been as
substantial as in the domain of exoplanets. Before 1995 our knowledge of
exoplanets was mainly based on philosophical and theoretical considerations. The 
years that followed have been marked, instead, by surprising discoveries made
possible by high-precision instruments. Over the past decade, the availability of
new techniques has moved the focus of research from the detection to the
characterization of exoplanets. Next-generation facilities will produce even more
complementary data that will lead to a comprehensive view of exoplanet
characteristics and, by comparison with theoretical models, to a better
understanding of planet formation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13784 
PMID: 25230658 


332. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):353-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13783.

The role of space telescopes in the characterization of transiting exoplanets.

Hatzes AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Thüringer Landessternwarte Tautenburg, Sternwarte 5, D-07778, Germany.

Characterization studies now have a dominant role in the field of exoplanets.
Such studies include the measurement of an exoplanet's bulk density, its
brightness temperature and the chemical composition of its atmosphere. The use of
space telescopes has played a key part in the characterization of transiting
exoplanets. These facilities offer astronomers data of exquisite precision and
temporal sampling as well as access to wavelength regions of the electromagnetic 
spectrum that are inaccessible from the ground. Space missions such as the Hubble
Space Telescope, Microvariability and Oscillations of Stars (MOST), Spitzer Space
Telescope, Convection, Rotation and Planetary Transits (CoRoT), and Kepler have
rapidly advanced our knowledge of the physical properties of exoplanets and have 
blazed a trail for a series of future space missions that will help us to
understand the observed diversity of exoplanets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13783 
PMID: 25230657 


333. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):345-52. doi: 10.1038/nature13782.

Highlights in the study of exoplanet atmospheres.

Burrows AS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Astrophysical Sciences, Princeton University, 4 Ivy Lane, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA.

Exoplanets are now being discovered in profusion. To understand their character, 
however, we require spectral models and data. These elements of remote sensing
can yield temperatures, compositions and even weather patterns, but only if
significant improvements in both the parameter retrieval process and measurements
are made. Despite heroic efforts to garner constraining data on exoplanet
atmospheres and dynamics, reliable interpretation has frequently lagged behind
ambition. I summarize the most productive, and at times novel, methods used to
probe exoplanet atmospheres; highlight some of the most interesting results
obtained; and suggest various broad theoretical topics in which further work
could pay significant dividends.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13782 
PMID: 25230656 


334. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):336-44. doi: 10.1038/nature13781.

Advances in exoplanet science from Kepler.

Lissauer JJ(1), Dawson RI(2), Tremaine S(3).

Author information: 
(1)NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, California 94035, USA.
(2)Department of Astronomy, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(3)Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.

Numerous telescopes and techniques have been used to find and study extrasolar
planets, but none has been more successful than NASA's Kepler space telescope.
Kepler has discovered most of the known exoplanets, the smallest planets to orbit
normal stars and the planets most likely to be similar to Earth. Most
importantly, Kepler has provided us with our first look at the typical
characteristics of planets and planetary systems for planets with sizes as small 
as, and orbits as large as, those of Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13781 
PMID: 25230655 


335. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):328-35. doi: 10.1038/nature13780.

Doppler spectroscopy as a path to the detection of Earth-like planets.

Mayor M(1), Lovis C(1), Santos NC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Geneva Observatory, University of Geneva, 51 Chemin des Maillettes, 1290
Versoix, Switzerland.
(2)1] Centro de Astrofisica e Departamento de Física e Astronomia, Faculdade de
Ciências, Universidade do Porto, Rua das Estrelas, 4150-762 Porto, Portugal. [2] 
Instituto de Astrofísica e Ciências do Espaço, Centro de Astrofísica da
Universidade do Porto, Rua das Estrelas, 4150-762 Porto, Portugal.

Doppler spectroscopy was the first technique used to reveal the existence of
extrasolar planetary systems hosted by solar-type stars. Radial-velocity surveys 
led to the detection of a rich population of super-Earths and Neptune-type
planets. The numerous detected systems revealed a remarkable diversity. Combining
Doppler measurements with photometric observations of planets transiting their
host stars further provides access to the planet bulk density, a first step
towards comparative exoplanetology. The development of new high-precision
spectrographs and space-based facilities will ultimately lead us to characterize 
rocky planets in the habitable zone of our close stellar neighbours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13780 
PMID: 25230654 


336. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):375-381. doi: 10.1038/nature13726. Epub 2014 Sep 3.

The genomic substrate for adaptive radiation in African cichlid fish.

Brawand D(#)(1)(2), Wagner CE(#)(3)(4), Li YI(#)(2), Malinsky M(5)(6), Keller
I(4), Fan S(7), Simakov O(7)(8), Ng AY(9), Lim ZW(9), Bezault E(10), Turner-Maier
J(1), Johnson J(1), Alcazar R(11), Noh HJ(1), Russell P(12), Aken B(6), Alföldi
J(1), Amemiya C(13), Azzouzi N(14), Baroiller JF(15), Barloy-Hubler F(14), Berlin
A(1), Bloomquist R(16), Carleton KL(17), Conte MA(17), D'Cotta H(15), Eshel
O(18), Gaffney L(1), Galibert F(14), Gante HF(19), Gnerre S(1), Greuter L(3)(4), 
Guyon R(14), Haddad NS(16), Haerty W(2), Harris RM(20), Hofmann HA(20), Hourlier 
T(6), Hulata G(18), Jaffe DB(1), Lara M(1), Lee AP(9), MacCallum I(1), Mwaiko
S(3), Nikaido M(21), Nishihara H(21), Ozouf-Costaz C(22), Penman DJ(23),
Przybylski D(1), Rakotomanga M(14), Renn SCP(10), Ribeiro FJ(1), Ron M(18),
Salzburger W(19), Sanchez-Pulido L(2), Santos ME(19), Searle S(6), Sharpe T(1),
Swofford R(1), Tan FJ(24), Williams L(1), Young S(1), Yin S(1), Okada N(21)(25), 
Kocher TD(17), Miska EA(5), Lander ES(1), Venkatesh B(9), Fernald RD(11), Meyer
A(7), Ponting CP(2), Streelman JT(16), Lindblad-Toh K(1)(26), Seehausen O(3)(4), 
Di Palma F(1)(27).

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)MRC Functional Genomics Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK.
(3)Department of Fish Ecology and Evolution, Eawag Swiss Federal Institute of
Aquatic Science and Technology, Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry, 
CH-6047 Kastanienbaum, Switzerland.
(4)Division of Aquatic Ecology, Institute of Ecology & Evolution, University of
Bern, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(5)Gurdon Institute, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(6)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK.
(7)Department of Biology, University of Konstanz, D-78457 Konstanz, Germany.
(8)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(9)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, ASTAR, 138673 Singapore.
(10)Department of Biology, Reed College, Portland, Oregon 97202, USA.
(11)Biology Department, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-5020,
USA.
(12)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(13)Benaroya Research Institute at Virginia Mason, Seattle, Washington 98101,
USA.
(14)Institut Génétique et Développement, CNRS/University of Rennes, 35043 Rennes,
France.
(15)CIRAD, Campus International de Baillarguet, TA B-110/A, 34398 Montpellier
cedex 5, France.
(16)School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
30332-0230, USA.
(17)Department of Biology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, 
USA.
(18)Animal Genetics, Institute of Animal Science, ARO, The Volcani Center,
Bet-Dagan, 50250 Israel.
(19)Zoological Institute, University of Basel, CH-4051 Basel, Switzerland.
(20)Department of Integrative Biology, Center for Computational Biology and
Bioinformatics; The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(21)Department of Biological Sciences, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo,
226-8501 Yokohama, Japan.
(22)Systématique, Adaptation, Evolution, National Museum of Natural History,
75005 Paris, France.
(23)Institute of Aquaculture, University of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, UK.
(24)Carnegie Institution of Washington, Department of Embryology, 3520 San Martin
Drive Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.
(25)National Cheng Kung University, Tainan City, 704 Taiwan.
(26)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Medical Biochemistry and
Microbiology, Uppsala University, 751 23 Uppsala, Sweden.
(27)Vertebrate and Health Genomics, The Genome Analysis Centre, Norwich NR18 7UH,
UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):318-9.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Nov;15(11):704.

Cichlid fishes are famous for large, diverse and replicated adaptive radiations
in the Great Lakes of East Africa. To understand the molecular mechanisms
underlying cichlid phenotypic diversity, we sequenced the genomes and
transcriptomes of five lineages of African cichlids: the Nile tilapia
(Oreochromis niloticus), an ancestral lineage with low diversity; and four
members of the East African lineage: Neolamprologus brichardi/pulcher (older
radiation, Lake Tanganyika), Metriaclima zebra (recent radiation, Lake Malawi),
Pundamilia nyererei (very recent radiation, Lake Victoria), and Astatotilapia
burtoni (riverine species around Lake Tanganyika). We found an excess of gene
duplications in the East African lineage compared to tilapia and other teleosts, 
an abundance of non-coding element divergence, accelerated coding sequence
evolution, expression divergence associated with transposable element insertions,
and regulation by novel microRNAs. In addition, we analysed sequence data from
sixty individuals representing six closely related species from Lake Victoria,
and show genome-wide diversifying selection on coding and regulatory variants,
some of which were recruited from ancient polymorphisms. We conclude that a
number of molecular mechanisms shaped East African cichlid genomes, and that
amassing of standing variation during periods of relaxed purifying selection may 
have been important in facilitating subsequent evolutionary diversification.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13726 
PMCID: PMC4353498
PMID: 25186727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):394-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13616. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

A massive galaxy in its core formation phase three billion years after the Big
Bang.

Nelson E(1), van Dokkum P(1), Franx M(2), Brammer G(3), Momcheva I(1), Schreiber 
NF(4), da Cunha E(5), Tacconi L(4), Bezanson R(6), Kirkpatrick A(7), Leja J(1),
Rix HW(5), Skelton R(8), van der Wel A(5), Whitaker K(9), Wuyts S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Astronomy Department, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(2)Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, NL-2300 RA Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Space Telescope Science Institute, 3700 San Martin Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 
21218, USA.
(4)Max-Planck-Institut für Extraterrestrische Physik, Giessenbackstrasse 1, 85748
Garching, Germany.
(5)Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(6)Steward Observatory, University of Arizona, 933 North Cherry Avenue, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA.
(7)Department of Astronomy, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts
01002, USA.
(8)South African Astronomical Observatory, PO Box 9, Observatory, Cape Town 7935,
South Africa.
(9)Astrophysics Science Division, Goddard Space Center, Greenbelt, Maryland
20771, USA.

Most massive galaxies are thought to have formed their dense stellar cores in
early cosmic epochs. Previous studies have found galaxies with high gas velocity 
dispersions or small apparent sizes, but so far no objects have been identified
with both the stellar structure and the gas dynamics of a forming core. Here we
report a candidate core in the process of formation 11 billion years ago, at
redshift z = 2.3. This galaxy, GOODS-N-774, has a stellar mass of 100 billion
solar masses, a half-light radius of 1.0 kiloparsecs and a star formation rate of
solar masses per year. The star-forming gas has a velocity dispersion of 317 ± 30
kilometres per second. This is similar to the stellar velocity dispersions of the
putative descendants of GOODS-N-774, which are compact quiescent galaxies at z ≈ 
2 (refs 8-11) and giant elliptical galaxies in the nearby Universe. Galaxies such
as GOODS-N-774 seem to be rare; however, from the star formation rate and size of
this galaxy we infer that many star-forming cores may be heavily obscured, and
could be missed in optical and near-infrared surveys.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13616 
PMID: 25162527 


338. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):426-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13725. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Bidirectional switch of the valence associated with a hippocampal contextual
memory engram.

Redondo RL(1), Kim J(2), Arons AL(3), Ramirez S(4), Liu X(3), Tonegawa S(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics at the Picower Institute for
Learning and Memory, Department of Biology and Department of Brain and Cognitive 
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [3].
(2)1] RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics at the Picower Institute for
Learning and Memory, Department of Biology and Department of Brain and Cognitive 
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA [2].
(3)1] RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics at the Picower Institute for
Learning and Memory, Department of Biology and Department of Brain and Cognitive 
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics at the Picower Institute for
Learning and Memory, Department of Biology and Department of Brain and Cognitive 
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Oct;15(10):629.
    Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):323-4.

The valence of memories is malleable because of their intrinsic reconstructive
property. This property of memory has been used clinically to treat maladaptive
behaviours. However, the neuronal mechanisms and brain circuits that enable the
switching of the valence of memories remain largely unknown. Here we investigated
these mechanisms by applying the recently developed memory engram cell-
manipulation technique. We labelled with channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) a population
of cells in either the dorsal dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus or the
basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) that were specifically activated during
contextual fear or reward conditioning. Both groups of fear-conditioned mice
displayed aversive light-dependent responses in an optogenetic place avoidance
test, whereas both DG- and BLA-labelled mice that underwent reward conditioning
exhibited an appetitive response in an optogenetic place preference test. Next,
in an attempt to reverse the valence of memory within a subject, mice whose DG or
BLA engram had initially been labelled by contextual fear or reward conditioning 
were subjected to a second conditioning of the opposite valence while their
original DG or BLA engram was reactivated by blue light. Subsequent optogenetic
place avoidance and preference tests revealed that although the DG-engram group
displayed a response indicating a switch of the memory valence, the BLA-engram
group did not. This switch was also evident at the cellular level by a change in 
functional connectivity between DG engram-bearing cells and BLA engram-bearing
cells. Thus, we found that in the DG, the neurons carrying the memory engram of a
given neutral context have plasticity such that the valence of a conditioned
response evoked by their reactivation can be reversed by re-associating this
contextual memory engram with a new unconditioned stimulus of an opposite
valence. Our present work provides new insight into the functional neural
circuits underlying the malleability of emotional memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13725 
PMCID: PMC4169316
PMID: 25162525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):431-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13468. Epub 2014 Jun 29.

Exonuclease-mediated degradation of nascent RNA silences genes linked to severe
malaria.

Zhang Q(1), Siegel TN(2), Martins RM(3), Wang F(4), Cao J(5), Gao Q(5), Cheng
X(6), Jiang L(6), Hon CC(7), Scheidig-Benatar C(3), Sakamoto H(3), Turner L(8),
Jensen AT(8), Claes A(3), Guizetti J(3), Malmquist NA(3), Scherf A(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Research Center for Translational Medicine, Shanghai East Hospital and
Institute of Infectious Diseases and Vaccine Development, Tongji University
School of Medicine, Shanghai 200120, China [2] Unité de Biologie des Interactions
Hôte-Parasite, Institut Pasteur, F-75724 Paris, France [3] CNRS, URA 2581,
F-75724 Paris, France.
(2)1] Unité de Biologie des Interactions Hôte-Parasite, Institut Pasteur, F-75724
Paris, France [2] CNRS, URA 2581, F-75724 Paris, France [3] Research Center for
Infectious Diseases, University of Würzburg, 97080 Würzburg, Germany.
(3)1] Unité de Biologie des Interactions Hôte-Parasite, Institut Pasteur, F-75724
Paris, France [2] CNRS, URA 2581, F-75724 Paris, France.
(4)Research Center for Translational Medicine, Shanghai East Hospital and
Institute of Infectious Diseases and Vaccine Development, Tongji University
School of Medicine, Shanghai 200120, China.
(5)Jiangsu Institute of Parasitic Diseases, Key Laboratory of Parasitic Disease
Control and Prevention (Ministry of Health), and Jiangsu Provincial Key
Laboratory of Parasite Molecular Biology, Wuxi 214064, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Molecular Virology and Immunology, Institut Pasteur of
Shanghai, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.
(7)Cell Biology of Parasitism Unit, Institut Pasteur, and INSERM U786, F-75724
Paris, France.
(8)Centre for Medical Parasitology, Department of International Health,
Immunology &Microbiology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen and Department of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital 
(Rigshospitalet), Copenhagen, Denmark.

Antigenic variation of the Plasmodium falciparum multicopy var gene family
enables parasite evasion of immune destruction by host antibodies. Expression of 
a particular var subgroup, termed upsA, is linked to the obstruction of blood
vessels in the brain and to the pathogenesis of human cerebral malaria. The
mechanism determining upsA activation remains unknown. Here we show that an
entirely new type of gene silencing mechanism involving an exonuclease-mediated
degradation of nascent RNA controls the silencing of genes linked to severe
malaria. We identify a novel chromatin-associated exoribonuclease, termed
PfRNase II, that controls the silencing of upsA var genes by marking their
transcription start site and intron-promoter regions leading to short-lived
cryptic RNA. Parasites carrying a deficient PfRNase II gene produce full-length
upsA var transcripts and intron-derived antisense long non-coding RNA. The
presence of stable upsA var transcripts overcomes monoallelic expression,
resulting in the simultaneous expression of both upsA and upsC type PfEMP1
proteins on the surface of individual infected red blood cells. In addition, we
observe an inverse relationship between transcript levels of PfRNase II and
upsA-type var genes in parasites from severe malaria patients, implying a crucial
role of PfRNase II in severe malaria. Our results uncover a previously unknown
type of post-transcriptional gene silencing mechanism in malaria parasites with
repercussions for other organisms. Additionally, the identification of RNase II
as a parasite protein controlling the expression of virulence genes involved in
pathogenesis in patients with severe malaria may provide new strategies for
reducing malaria mortality.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13468 
PMID: 25043062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):436-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13540. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Endocrinization of FGF1 produces a neomorphic and potent insulin sensitizer.

Suh JM(1), Jonker JW(2), Ahmadian M(3), Goetz R(4), Lackey D(5), Osborn O(5),
Huang Z(6), Liu W(7), Yoshihara E(3), van Dijk TH(7), Havinga R(7), Fan W(3), Yin
YQ(3), Yu RT(3), Liddle C(8), Atkins AR(3), Olefsky JM(5), Mohammadi M(4), Downes
M(3), Evans RM(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA [2].
(2)1] Center for Liver, Digestive and Metabolic Diseases, Departments of
Pediatrics and Laboratory Medicine, University of Groningen, University Medical
Center Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands [2].
(3)Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University
of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(6)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University 
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] School of Pharmacy, Wenzhou
Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325035, China.
(7)Center for Liver, Digestive and Metabolic Diseases, Departments of Pediatrics 
and Laboratory Medicine, University of Groningen, University Medical Center
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9713 GZ Groningen, The Netherlands.
(8)The Storr Liver Unit, Westmead Millennium Institute and University of Sydney, 
Westmead Hospital, Westmead, New South Wales 2145, Australia.
(9)1] Gene Expression Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Salk Institute 
for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Apr 16;520(7547):388.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Oct 7;20(4):554-5.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Oct;10(10):576.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Sep;13(9):652-3.

Fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) is an autocrine/paracrine regulator whose
binding to heparan sulphate proteoglycans effectively precludes its circulation. 
Although FGF1 is known as a mitogenic factor, FGF1 knockout mice develop insulin 
resistance when stressed by a high-fat diet, suggesting a potential role in
nutrient homeostasis. Here we show that parenteral delivery of a single dose of
recombinant FGF1 (rFGF1) results in potent, insulin-dependent lowering of glucose
levels in diabetic mice that is dose-dependent but does not lead to
hypoglycaemia. Chronic pharmacological treatment with rFGF1 increases
insulin-dependent glucose uptake in skeletal muscle and suppresses the hepatic
production of glucose to achieve whole-body insulin sensitization. The sustained 
glucose lowering and insulin sensitization attributed to rFGF1 are not
accompanied by the side effects of weight gain, liver steatosis and bone loss
associated with current insulin-sensitizing therapies. We also show that the
glucose-lowering activity of FGF1 can be dissociated from its mitogenic activity 
and is mediated predominantly via FGF receptor 1 signalling. Thus we have
uncovered an unexpected, neomorphic insulin-sensitizing action for exogenous
non-mitogenic human FGF1 with therapeutic potential for the treatment of insulin 
resistance and type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13540 
PMCID: PMC4184286
PMID: 25043058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):382-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13438. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

Proteogenomic characterization of human colon and rectal cancer.

Zhang B(1), Wang J(2), Wang X(2), Zhu J(2), Liu Q(2), Shi Z(3), Chambers MC(2),
Zimmerman LJ(4), Shaddox KF(5), Kim S(6), Davies SR(7), Wang S(8), Wang P(9),
Kinsinger CR(10), Rivers RC(10), Rodriguez H(10), Townsend RR(7), Ellis MJ(7),
Carr SA(11), Tabb DL(2), Coffey RJ(12), Slebos RJ(13), Liebler DC(4); NCI CPTAC.

Collaborators: Carr SA, Gillette MA, Klauser KR, Kuhn E, Mani DR, Mertins P,
Ketchum KA, Paulovich AG, Whiteaker JR, Edwards NJ, McGarvey PB, Madhavan S, Wang
P, Chan D, Pandey A, Shih IeM, Zhang H, Zhang Z, Zhu H, Whiteley GA, Skates SJ,
White FM, Levine DA, Boja ES, Kinsinger CR, Hiltke T, Mesri M, Rivers RC,
Rodriguez H, Shaw KM, Stein SE, Fenyo D, Liu T, McDermott JE, Payne SH, Rodland
KD, Smith RD, Rudnick P, Snyder M, Zhao Y, Chen X, Ransohoff DF, Hoofnagle AN,
Liebler DC, Sanders ME, Shi Z, Slebos RJ, Tabb DL, Zhang B, Zimmerman LJ, Wang Y,
Davies SR, Ding L, Ellis MJ, Townsend RR.

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA [2] Department of Cancer Biology,
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(3)1] Advanced Computing Center for Research and Education, Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA [2] Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, Vanderbilt University, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(4)1] Department of Biochemistry, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,
Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA [2] Jim Ayers Institute for Precancer Detection
and Diagnosis, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(5)Jim Ayers Institute for Precancer Detection and Diagnosis, Vanderbilt-Ingram
Cancer Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(6)Directorate of Fundamental and Computational Sciences, Pacific Northwest
National Laboratory, Richland, Washington 99352, USA.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(8)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
1100 Fairview Avenue North, M2-B500, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(9)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn Institute of Genomics and
Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, One Gustave L. Levy 
Place, Box 1498, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(10)Office of Cancer Clinical Proteomics Research, National Cancer Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(11)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Maryland 02142, USA.
(12)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37232, USA.
(13)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,
Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA [2] Jim Ayers Institute for Precancer Detection
and Diagnosis, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2014 Oct;4(10):1108.

Extensive genomic characterization of human cancers presents the problem of
inference from genomic abnormalities to cancer phenotypes. To address this
problem, we analysed proteomes of colon and rectal tumours characterized
previously by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and perform integrated proteogenomic
analyses. Somatic variants displayed reduced protein abundance compared to
germline variants. Messenger RNA transcript abundance did not reliably predict
protein abundance differences between tumours. Proteomics identified five
proteomic subtypes in the TCGA cohort, two of which overlapped with the TCGA
'microsatellite instability/CpG island methylation phenotype' transcriptomic
subtype, but had distinct mutation, methylation and protein expression patterns
associated with different clinical outcomes. Although copy number alterations
showed strong cis- and trans-effects on mRNA abundance, relatively few of these
extend to the protein level. Thus, proteomics data enabled prioritization of
candidate driver genes. The chromosome 20q amplicon was associated with the
largest global changes at both mRNA and protein levels; proteomics data
highlighted potential 20q candidates, including HNF4A (hepatocyte nuclear factor 
4, alpha), TOMM34 (translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 34) and SRC (SRC
proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase). Integrated proteogenomic analysis 
provides functional context to interpret genomic abnormalities and affords a new 
paradigm for understanding cancer biology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13438 
PMCID: PMC4249766
PMID: 25043054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):440-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13492. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Coordinated regulation of protein synthesis and degradation by mTORC1.

Zhang Y(1), Nicholatos J(1), Dreier JR(2), Ricoult SJ(1), Widenmaier SB(1),
Hotamisligil GS(1), Kwiatkowski DJ(2), Manning BD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Translational Medicine Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2016 Jan 21;529(7586):E2-3.
    Nature. 2016 Jan 21;529(7586):E1-2.

Eukaryotic cells coordinately control anabolic and catabolic processes to
maintain cell and tissue homeostasis. Mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1
(mTORC1) promotes nutrient-consuming anabolic processes, such as protein
synthesis. Here we show that as well as increasing protein synthesis, mTORC1
activation in mouse and human cells also promotes an increased capacity for
protein degradation. Cells with activated mTORC1 exhibited elevated levels of
intact and active proteasomes through a global increase in the expression of
genes encoding proteasome subunits. The increase in proteasome gene expression,
cellular proteasome content, and rates of protein turnover downstream of mTORC1
were all dependent on induction of the transcription factor nuclear factor
erythroid-derived 2-related factor 1 (NRF1; also known as NFE2L1). Genetic
activation of mTORC1 through loss of the tuberous sclerosis complex tumour
suppressors, TSC1 or TSC2, or physiological activation of mTORC1 in response to
growth factors or feeding resulted in increased NRF1 expression in cells and
tissues. We find that this NRF1-dependent elevation in proteasome levels serves
to increase the intracellular pool of amino acids, which thereby influences rates
of new protein synthesis. Therefore, mTORC1 signalling increases the efficiency
of proteasome-mediated protein degradation for both quality control and as a
mechanism to supply substrate for sustained protein synthesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13492 
PMCID: PMC4402229
PMID: 25043031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):388-393. doi: 10.1038/nature13543. Epub 2014 Jul
20.

Molecular architecture and mechanism of the anaphase-promoting complex.

Chang LF(#)(1)(2), Zhang Z(#)(1)(2), Yang J(1)(2), McLaughlin SH(2), Barford
D(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, 237 Fulham Road,
London, SW3 6JB, UK.
(2)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, CB2 0QH, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

The ubiquitination of cell cycle regulatory proteins by the anaphase-promoting
complex/cyclosome (APC/C) controls sister chromatid segregation, cytokinesis and 
the establishment of the G1 phase of the cell cycle. The APC/C is an unusually
large multimeric cullin-RING ligase. Its activity is strictly dependent on
regulatory coactivator subunits that promote APC/C-substrate interactions and
stimulate its catalytic reaction. Because the structures of many APC/C subunits
and their organization within the assembly are unknown, the molecular basis for
these processes is poorly understood. Here, from a cryo-electron microscopy
reconstruction of a human APC/C-coactivator-substrate complex at 7.4 Å
resolution, we have determined the complete secondary structural architecture of 
the complex. With this information we identified protein folds for structurally
uncharacterized subunits, and the definitive location of all 20 APC/C subunits
within the 1.2 MDa assembly. Comparison with apo APC/C shows that the coactivator
promotes a profound allosteric transition involving displacement of the
cullin-RING catalytic subunits relative to the degron-recognition module of
coactivator and APC10. This transition is accompanied by increased flexibility of
the cullin-RING subunits and enhanced affinity for UBCH10-ubiquitin, changes
which may contribute to coactivator-mediated stimulation of APC/C E3 ligase
activity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13543 
PMCID: PMC4456660
PMID: 25043029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):422-425. doi: 10.1038/nature13448. Epub 2014 Jun
29.

Genome sequencing of normal cells reveals developmental lineages and mutational
processes.

Behjati S(1)(2), Huch M(#)(3)(4), van Boxtel R(#)(3), Karthaus W(#)(3), Wedge
DC(1), Tamuri AU(5), Martincorena I(1), Petljak M(1), Alexandrov LB(1), Gundem
G(1), Tarpey PS(1), Roerink S(1), Blokker J(3), Maddison M(1), Mudie L(1),
Robinson B(1), Nik-Zainal S(1)(6), Campbell P(1), Goldman N(5), van de Wetering
M(3), Cuppen E(3), Clevers H(3), Stratton MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome 
Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SA, UK.
(2)Department of Paediatrics, University of Cambridge, Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2
2XY, UK.
(3)Hubrecht Institute, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences,
CancerGenomiCs.nl & University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CT, Utrecht, The
Netherlands.
(4)Present address: Wellcome Trust / Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute, Tennis 
Court Road, CB2 1QN, Cambridge, UK.
(5)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute,
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, CB10 1SA, UK.
(6)East Anglian Medical Genetics Service, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

The somatic mutations present in the genome of a cell accumulate over the
lifetime of a multicellular organism. These mutations can provide insights into
the developmental lineage tree, the number of divisions that each cell has
undergone and the mutational processes that have been operative. Here we describe
whole genomes of clonal lines derived from multiple tissues of healthy mice.
Using somatic base substitutions, we reconstructed the early cell divisions of
each animal, demonstrating the contributions of embryonic cells to adult tissues.
Differences were observed between tissues in the numbers and types of mutations
accumulated by each cell, which likely reflect differences in the number of cell 
divisions they have undergone and varying contributions of different mutational
processes. If somatic mutation rates are similar to those in mice, the results
indicate that precise insights into development and mutagenesis of normal human
cells will be possible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13448 
PMCID: PMC4227286
PMID: 25043003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Nature. 2014 Sep 18;513(7518):418-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13469. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

Optimization of lag time underlies antibiotic tolerance in evolved bacterial
populations.

Fridman O(1), Goldberg A(1), Ronin I(1), Shoresh N(2), Balaban NQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Racah Institute of Physics, The Sudarsky Center for Computational Biology and 
the Center for NanoScience, Edmond J. Safra Campus, The Hebrew University,
Jerusalem 91904, Israel.
(2)Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

The great therapeutic achievements of antibiotics have been dramatically undercut
by the evolution of bacterial strategies that overcome antibiotic stress. These
strategies fall into two classes. 'Resistance' makes it possible for a
microorganism to grow in the constant presence of the antibiotic, provided that
the concentration of the antibiotic is not too high. 'Tolerance' allows a
microorganism to survive antibiotic treatment, even at high antibiotic
concentrations, as long as the duration of the treatment is limited. Although
both resistance and tolerance are important reasons for the failure of antibiotic
treatments, the evolution of resistance is much better understood than that of
tolerance. Here we followed the evolution of bacterial populations under
intermittent exposure to the high concentrations of antibiotics used in the
clinic and characterized the evolved strains in terms of both resistance and
tolerance. We found that all strains adapted by specific genetic mutations, which
became fixed in the evolved populations. By monitoring the phenotypic changes at 
the population and single-cell levels, we found that the first adaptive change to
antibiotic stress was the development of tolerance through a major adjustment in 
the single-cell lag-time distribution, without a change in resistance.
Strikingly, we found that the lag time of bacteria before regrowth was optimized 
to match the duration of the antibiotic-exposure interval. Whole genome
sequencing of the evolved strains and restoration of the wild-type alleles
allowed us to identify target genes involved in this antibiotic-driven phenotype:
'tolerance by lag' (tbl). Better understanding of lag-time evolution as a key
determinant of the survival of bacterial populations under high antibiotic
concentrations could lead to new approaches to impeding the evolution of
antibiotic resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13469 
PMID: 25043002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):219-23. doi: 10.1038/nature13721.

Observational evidence for interhemispheric hydroxyl-radical parity.

Patra PK(1), Krol MC(2), Montzka SA(3), Arnold T(4), Atlas EL(5), Lintner BR(6), 
Stephens BB(7), Xiang B(8), Elkins JW(3), Fraser PJ(9), Ghosh A(10), Hintsa
EJ(11), Hurst DF(11), Ishijima K(12), Krummel PB(9), Miller BR(11), Miyazaki
K(12), Moore FL(11), Mühle J(4), O'Doherty S(13), Prinn RG(14), Steele LP(9),
Takigawa M(12), Wang HJ(15), Weiss RF(4), Wofsy SC(8), Young D(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Environmental Geochemical Cycle Research, JAMSTEC, Yokohama
236 0001, Japan [2] CAOS, Graduate School of Studies, Tohoku University, Sendai
980 8578, Japan.
(2)Wageningen University, Droevendaalsesteeg 3a, 6708 PB, The Netherlands.
(3)National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Earth System Research
Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.
(4)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(5)The Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami, 
Miami, Florida 33149, USA.
(6)Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901, 
USA.
(7)National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR), Boulder, Colorado 80301, USA.
(8)School of Engineering and Applied Science, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(9)Centre for Australian Weather and Climate Research, Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) Oceans and Atmosphere Flagship,
Aspendale, Victoria 3195, Australia.
(10)1] Department of Environmental Geochemical Cycle Research, JAMSTEC, Yokohama 
236 0001, Japan [2] National Institute of Polar Research, 10-3, Midoricho,
Tachikawa, Tokyo 190-8518, Japan.
(11)1] National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Earth System
Research Laboratory, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA [2] CIRES, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(12)Department of Environmental Geochemical Cycle Research, JAMSTEC, Yokohama 236
0001, Japan.
(13)School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock's Close, BS8 1TS, UK.
(14)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(15)School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology,
Atlanta, Georgia 30332, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):176-8.

The hydroxyl radical (OH) is a key oxidant involved in the removal of air
pollutants and greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. The ratio of Northern
Hemispheric to Southern Hemispheric (NH/SH) OH concentration is important for our
understanding of emission estimates of atmospheric species such as nitrogen
oxides and methane. It remains poorly constrained, however, with a range of
estimates from 0.85 to 1.4 (refs 4, 7-10). Here we determine the NH/SH ratio of
OH with the help of methyl chloroform data (a proxy for OH concentrations) and an
atmospheric transport model that accurately describes interhemispheric transport 
and modelled emissions. We find that for the years 2004-2011 the model predicts
an annual mean NH-SH gradient of methyl chloroform that is a tight linear
function of the modelled NH/SH ratio in annual mean OH. We estimate a NH/SH OH
ratio of 0.97 ± 0.12 during this time period by optimizing global total emissions
and mean OH abundance to fit methyl chloroform data from two surface-measurement 
networks and aircraft campaigns. Our findings suggest that top-down emission
estimates of reactive species such as nitrogen oxides in key emitting countries
in the NH that are based on a NH/SH OH ratio larger than 1 may be overestimated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13721 
PMID: 25209800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):210-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13712.

The diversity of quasars unified by accretion and orientation.

Shen Y(1), Ho LC(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Carnegie Observatories, 813 Santa Barbara Street, Pasadena, California
91101, USA [2] Kavli Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Peking University,
Beijing 100871, China.
(2)1] Kavli Institute for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Peking University, Beijing 
100871, China [2] Department of Astronomy, School of Physics, Peking University, 
Beijing 100871, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):181-2.

Quasars are rapidly accreting supermassive black holes at the centres of massive 
galaxies. They display a broad range of properties across all wavelengths,
reflecting the diversity in the physical conditions of the regions close to the
central engine. These properties, however, are not random, but form well-defined 
trends. The dominant trend is known as 'Eigenvector 1', in which many properties 
correlate with the strength of optical iron and [O III] emission. The main
physical driver of Eigenvector 1 has long been suspected to be the quasar
luminosity normalized by the mass of the hole (the 'Eddington ratio'), which is
an important parameter of the black hole accretion process. But a definitive
proof has been missing. Here we report an analysis of archival data that reveals 
that the Eddington ratio indeed drives Eigenvector 1. We also find that
orientation plays a significant role in determining the observed kinematics of
the gas in the broad-line region, implying a flattened, disk-like geometry for
the fast-moving clouds close to the black hole. Our results show that most of the
diversity of quasar phenomenology can be unified using two simple quantities:
Eddington ratio and orientation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13712 
PMID: 25209799 


348. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):195-201. doi: 10.1038/nature13679.

Gibbon genome and the fast karyotype evolution of small apes.

Carbone L(1), Harris RA(2), Gnerre S(3), Veeramah KR(4), Lorente-Galdos B(5),
Huddleston J(6), Meyer TJ(7), Herrero J(8), Roos C(9), Aken B(10), Anaclerio
F(11), Archidiacono N(11), Baker C(12), Barrell D(10), Batzer MA(13), Beal K(14),
Blancher A(15), Bohrson CL(16), Brameier M(9), Campbell MS(17), Capozzi O(11),
Casola C(18), Chiatante G(11), Cree A(19), Damert A(20), de Jong PJ(21), Dumas
L(22), Fernandez-Callejo M(5), Flicek P(14), Fuchs NV(23), Gut I(24), Gut M(24), 
Hahn MW(25), Hernandez-Rodriguez J(5), Hillier LW(26), Hubley R(27), Ianc B(20), 
Izsvák Z(23), Jablonski NG(28), Johnstone LM(29), Karimpour-Fard A(22), Konkel
MK(13), Kostka D(30), Lazar NH(31), Lee SL(19), Lewis LR(19), Liu Y(19), Locke
DP(32), Mallick S(33), Mendez FL(34), Muffato M(14), Nazareth LV(19), Nevonen
KA(35), O'Bleness M(22), Ochis C(20), Odom DT(36), Pollard KS(37), Quilez J(5),
Reich D(33), Rocchi M(11), Schumann GG(38), Searle S(39), Sikela JM(22), Skollar 
G(40), Smit A(26), Sonmez K(41), ten Hallers B(42), Terhune E(35), Thomas GW(25),
Ullmer B(43), Ventura M(11), Walker JA(13), Wall JD(44), Walter L(9), Ward
MC(45), Wheelan SJ(16), Whelan CW(46), White S(39), Wilhelm LJ(35), Woerner
AE(29), Yandell M(17), Zhu B(42), Hammer MF(29), Marques-Bonet T(47), Eichler
EE(6), Fulton L(26), Fronick C(26), Muzny DM(19), Warren WC(26), Worley KC(19),
Rogers J(19), Wilson RK(26), Gibbs RA(19).

Author information: 
(1)1] Oregon Health &Science University, Department of Behavioral Neuroscience,
3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road Portland, Oregon 97239, USA. [2] Oregon National
Primate Research Center, Division of Neuroscience, 505 NW 185th Avenue,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA. [3] Oregon Health &Science University, Department
of Molecular &Medical Genetics, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon
97239, USA. [4] Oregon Health &Science University, Bioinformatics and
Computational Biology Division, Department of Medical Informatics &Clinical
Epidemiology, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(2)Baylor College of Medicine, Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, One
Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(3)Nabsys, 60 Clifford Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA.
(4)1] University of Arizona, ARL Division of Biotechnology, Tucson, Arizona
85721, USA. [2] Stony Brook University, Department of Ecology and Evolution,
Stony Brook, New York 11790, USA.
(5)IBE, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC), Universitat Pompeu Fabra,
PRBB, Doctor Aiguader, 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(6)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 1705 NE
Pacific Street, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(7)Oregon Health &Science University, Department of Behavioral Neuroscience, 3181
SW Sam Jackson Park Road Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(8)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute,
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. [2] The Genome
Analysis Centre, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK. [3] Bill Lyons
Informatics Center, UCL Cancer Institute, University College London, London WC1E 
6DD, UK (J.He); Seven Bridges Genomics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA
(D.P.L.); Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA (F.L.M.); BioNano Genomics, San Diego, California
92121, USA (B.t.H.); University of Chicago, Department of Human Genetics,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA (M.C.W.); Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research,
Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA (C.W.W.); The CAS Key
Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of Microbiology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China (B.Z.).
(9)Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Gene Bank of Primates, German Primate 
Center, Göttingen 37077, Germany.
(10)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute, 
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. [2] European
Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10
1SD, UK.
(11)University of Bari, Department of Biology, Via Orabona 4, 70125, Bari, Italy.
(12)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(13)Louisiana State University, Department of Biological Sciences, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA.
(14)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute,
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK.
(15)University of Paul Sabatier, Toulouse 31062, France.
(16)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Department of Oncology,
Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(17)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.
(18)Texas A&M University, Department of Ecosystem Science and Management, College
Station, Texas 77843, USA.
(19)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Department of Molecular and Human Genetics,
Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(20)Babes-Bolyai-University, Institute for Interdisciplinary Research in
Bio-Nano-Sciences, Molecular Biology Center, Cluj-Napoca 400084, Romania.
(21)Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute, BACPAC Resources, Oakland,
California 94609, USA.
(22)University of Colorado School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Genetics, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.
(23)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Berlin 13125, Germany.
(24)Centro Nacional de Análisis Genómico (CNAG), Parc Científic de Barcelona,
Barcelona 08028, Spain.
(25)Indiana University, School of Informatics and Computing, Bloomington, Indiana
47408, USA.
(26)The Genome Center at Washington University, Washington University School of
Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, Saint Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(27)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington 98109-5234, USA.
(28)The Pennsylvania State University, Department of Anthropology, University
Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(29)University of Arizona, ARL Division of Biotechnology, Tucson, Arizona 85721, 
USA.
(30)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Department of Developmental
Biology, Department of Computational and Systems Biology, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania
15261, USA.
(31)Oregon Health &Science University, Bioinformatics and Computational Biology
Division, Department of Medical Informatics &Clinical Epidemiology, 3181 SW Sam
Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(32)1] The Genome Center at Washington University, Washington University School
of Medicine, 4444 Forest Park Avenue, Saint Louis, Missouri 63108, USA. [2] Bill 
Lyons Informatics Center, UCL Cancer Institute, University College London, London
WC1E 6DD, UK (J.He); Seven Bridges Genomics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA 
(D.P.L.); Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA (F.L.M.); BioNano Genomics, San Diego, California
92121, USA (B.t.H.); University of Chicago, Department of Human Genetics,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA (M.C.W.); Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research,
Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA (C.W.W.); The CAS Key
Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of Microbiology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China (B.Z.).
(33)Harvard Medical School, Department of Genetics, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.
(34)1] University of Arizona, ARL Division of Biotechnology, Tucson, Arizona
85721, USA. [2] Bill Lyons Informatics Center, UCL Cancer Institute, University
College London, London WC1E 6DD, UK (J.He); Seven Bridges Genomics, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA (D.P.L.); Department of Genetics, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA (F.L.M.); BioNano Genomics,
San Diego, California 92121, USA (B.t.H.); University of Chicago, Department of
Human Genetics, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA (M.C.W.); Stanley Center for
Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA
(C.W.W.); The CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology,
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China
(B.Z.).
(35)Oregon National Primate Research Center, Division of Neuroscience, 505 NW
185th Avenue, Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA.
(36)1] European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, 
Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. [2] University of Cambridge, Cancer Research UK-Cambridge
Institute, Cambridge CB2 0RE, UK.
(37)1] University of California, Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, California 
94158-226, USA. [2] Institute for Human Genetics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94143-0794, USA. [3] Division of Biostatistics, University 
of California, San Francisco, California 94143-0794, USA.
(38)Paul Ehrlich Institute, Division of Medical Biotechnology, 63225 Langen,
Germany.
(39)European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK.
(40)Gibbon Conservation Center, 19100 Esguerra Rd, Santa Clarita, California
91350, USA.
(41)1] Oregon Health &Science University, Bioinformatics and Computational
Biology Division, Department of Medical Informatics &Clinical Epidemiology, 3181 
SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA. [2] Oregon Health &Science
University, Center for Spoken Language Understanding, Institute on Development
and Disability, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(42)1] Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute, BACPAC Resources, Oakland,
California 94609, USA. [2] Bill Lyons Informatics Center, UCL Cancer Institute,
University College London, London WC1E 6DD, UK (J.He); Seven Bridges Genomics,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA (D.P.L.); Department of Genetics, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA (F.L.M.); BioNano 
Genomics, San Diego, California 92121, USA (B.t.H.); University of Chicago,
Department of Human Genetics, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA (M.C.W.); Stanley
Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA (C.W.W.); The CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology,
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China
(B.Z.).
(43)Louisiana State University, School of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA.
(44)1] Institute for Human Genetics, University of California, San Francisco,
California 94143-0794, USA. [2] Division of Biostatistics, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143-0794, USA.
(45)1] University of Cambridge, Cancer Research UK-Cambridge Institute, Cambridge
CB2 0RE, UK. [2] Bill Lyons Informatics Center, UCL Cancer Institute, University 
College London, London WC1E 6DD, UK (J.He); Seven Bridges Genomics, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA (D.P.L.); Department of Genetics, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA (F.L.M.); BioNano Genomics,
San Diego, California 92121, USA (B.t.H.); University of Chicago, Department of
Human Genetics, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA (M.C.W.); Stanley Center for
Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA
(C.W.W.); The CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology,
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China
(B.Z.).
(46)1] Oregon Health &Science University, Center for Spoken Language
Understanding, Institute on Development and Disability, Portland, Oregon 97239,
USA. [2] Bill Lyons Informatics Center, UCL Cancer Institute, University College 
London, London WC1E 6DD, UK (J.He); Seven Bridges Genomics, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA (D.P.L.); Department of Genetics, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA (F.L.M.); BioNano Genomics,
San Diego, California 92121, USA (B.t.H.); University of Chicago, Department of
Human Genetics, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA (M.C.W.); Stanley Center for
Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA
(C.W.W.); The CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology,
Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China
(B.Z.).
(47)1] IBE, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC), Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 
PRBB, Doctor Aiguader, 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain. [2] Centro Nacional de
Análisis Genómico (CNAG), Parc Científic de Barcelona, Barcelona 08028, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):174-5.

Gibbons are small arboreal apes that display an accelerated rate of evolutionary 
chromosomal rearrangement and occupy a key node in the primate phylogeny between 
Old World monkeys and great apes. Here we present the assembly and analysis of a 
northern white-cheeked gibbon (Nomascus leucogenys) genome. We describe the
propensity for a gibbon-specific retrotransposon (LAVA) to insert into chromosome
segregation genes and alter transcription by providing a premature termination
site, suggesting a possible molecular mechanism for the genome plasticity of the 
gibbon lineage. We further show that the gibbon genera (Nomascus, Hylobates,
Hoolock and Symphalangus) experienced a near-instantaneous radiation ∼5 million
years ago, coincident with major geographical changes in southeast Asia that
caused cycles of habitat compression and expansion. Finally, we identify
signatures of positive selection in genes important for forelimb development
(TBX5) and connective tissues (COL1A1) that may have been involved in the
adaptation of gibbons to their arboreal habitat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13679 
PMCID: PMC4249732
PMID: 25209798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):183-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13711.

Assembly-line synthesis of organic molecules with tailored shapes.

Burns M(1), Essafi S(1), Bame JR(1), Bull SP(1), Webster MP(1), Balieu S(1), Dale
JW(2), Butts CP(1), Harvey JN(1), Aggarwal VK(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Cantock's Close, Bristol BS8 1TS, 
UK.
(2)Novartis Horsham Research Centre, Wimblehurst Road, Horsham, West Sussex RH13 
5AB, UK.

Molecular 'assembly lines', in which organic molecules undergo iterative
processes such as chain elongation and functional group manipulation, are found
in many natural systems, including polyketide biosynthesis. Here we report the
creation of such an assembly line using the iterative, reagent-controlled
homologation of a boronic ester. This process relies on the reactivity of
α-lithioethyl tri-isopropylbenzoate, which inserts into carbon-boron bonds with
exceptionally high fidelity and stereocontrol; each chain-extension step
generates a new boronic ester, which is immediately ready for further
homologation. We used this method to generate organic molecules that contain ten 
contiguous, stereochemically defined methyl groups. Several stereoisomers were
synthesized and shown to adopt different shapes-helical or linear-depending on
the stereochemistry of the methyl groups. This work should facilitate the
rational design of molecules with predictable shapes, which could have an impact 
in areas of molecular sciences in which bespoke molecules are required.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13711 
PMCID: PMC4167605
PMID: 25209797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):229-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13717. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

A global strategy for road building.

Laurance WF(1), Clements GR(2), Sloan S(1), O'Connell CS(3), Mueller ND(4),
Goosem M(1), Venter O(1), Edwards DP(5), Phalan B(6), Balmford A(6), Van Der Ree 
R(7), Arrea IB(8).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Tropical Environmental and Sustainability Science, and College of
Marine and Environmental Sciences, James Cook University, Cairns, Queensland
4878, Australia.
(2)1] Centre for Tropical Environmental and Sustainability Science, and College
of Marine and Environmental Sciences, James Cook University, Cairns, Queensland
4878, Australia [2] Kenyir Research Institute, Universiti Malaya Terengganu,
21030 Kuala Terengganu, Malaysia.
(3)Institute on the Environment, and Department of Ecology, Evolution, and
Behavior, University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.
(4)Center for the Environment, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA.
(5)Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, University of Sheffield, Sheffield
S10 2TN, UK.
(6)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EJ, UK.
(7)Australian Research Centre for Urban Ecology, and School of Botany, University
of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia.
(8)Conservation Strategy Fund, 663-2300 Curridabat, San José, Costa Rica.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):262.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):178-9.

The number and extent of roads will expand dramatically this century. Globally,
at least 25 million kilometres of new roads are anticipated by 2050; a 60%
increase in the total length of roads over that in 2010. Nine-tenths of all road 
construction is expected to occur in developing nations, including many regions
that sustain exceptional biodiversity and vital ecosystem services. Roads
penetrating into wilderness or frontier areas are a major proximate driver of
habitat loss and fragmentation, wildfires, overhunting and other environmental
degradation, often with irreversible impacts on ecosystems. Unfortunately, much
road proliferation is chaotic or poorly planned, and the rate of expansion is so 
great that it often overwhelms the capacity of environmental planners and
managers. Here we present a global scheme for prioritizing road building. This
large-scale zoning plan seeks to limit the environmental costs of road expansion 
while maximizing its benefits for human development, by helping to increase
agricultural production, which is an urgent priority given that global food
demand could double by mid-century. Our analysis identifies areas with high
environmental values where future road building should be avoided if possible,
areas where strategic road improvements could promote agricultural development
with relatively modest environmental costs, and 'conflict areas' where road
building could have sizeable benefits for agriculture but with serious
environmental damage. Our plan provides a template for proactively zoning and
prioritizing roads during the most explosive era of road expansion in human
history.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13717 
PMID: 25162528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):189-94. doi: 10.1038/nature13724. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

A synaptic and circuit basis for corollary discharge in the auditory cortex.

Schneider DM(1), Nelson A(1), Mooney R(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurobiology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham,
North Carolina 27710, USA [2].
(2)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):180-1.

Sensory regions of the brain integrate environmental cues with copies of
motor-related signals important for imminent and ongoing movements. In mammals,
signals propagating from the motor cortex to the auditory cortex are thought to
have a critical role in normal hearing and behaviour, yet the synaptic and
circuit mechanisms by which these motor-related signals influence auditory
cortical activity remain poorly understood. Using in vivo intracellular
recordings in behaving mice, we find that excitatory neurons in the auditory
cortex are suppressed before and during movement, owing in part to increased
activity of local parvalbumin-positive interneurons. Electrophysiology and
optogenetic gain- and loss-of-function experiments reveal that motor-related
changes in auditory cortical dynamics are driven by a subset of neurons in the
secondary motor cortex that innervate the auditory cortex and are active during
movement. These findings provide a synaptic and circuit basis for the
motor-related corollary discharge hypothesized to facilitate hearing and
auditory-guided behaviours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13724 
PMCID: PMC4248668
PMID: 25162524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):214-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13734. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Probing excitonic dark states in single-layer tungsten disulphide.

Ye Z(1), Cao T(2), O'Brien K(3), Zhu H(3), Yin X(3), Wang Y(3), Louie SG(4),
Zhang X(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] NSF Nano-scale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC), 3112 Etcheverry Hall,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] Material Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3].
(3)NSF Nano-scale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC), 3112 Etcheverry Hall,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(4)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] Material Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(5)1] NSF Nano-scale Science and Engineering Center (NSEC), 3112 Etcheverry Hall,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Material Sciences
Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [3] Department of Physics, King Abdulaziz University,
Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia [4] Kavli Energy NanoSciences Institute at the
University of California, Berkeley, and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94704, USA.

Transition metal dichalcogenide (TMDC) monolayers have recently emerged as an
important class of two-dimensional semiconductors with potential for electronic
and optoelectronic devices. Unlike semi-metallic graphene, layered TMDCs have a
sizeable bandgap. More interestingly, when thinned down to a monolayer, TMDCs
transform from indirect-bandgap to direct-bandgap semiconductors, exhibiting a
number of intriguing optical phenomena such as valley-selective circular
dichroism, doping-dependent charged excitons and strong photocurrent responses.
However, the fundamental mechanism underlying such a strong light-matter
interaction is still under intensive investigation. First-principles calculations
have predicted a quasiparticle bandgap much larger than the measured optical gap,
and an optical response dominated by excitonic effects. In particular, a recent
study based on a GW plus Bethe-Salpeter equation (GW-BSE) approach, which
employed many-body Green's-function methodology to address electron-electron and 
electron-hole interactions, theoretically predicted a diversity of strongly bound
excitons. Here we report experimental evidence of a series of excitonic dark
states in single-layer WS2 using two-photon excitation spectroscopy. In
combination with GW-BSE theory, we prove that the excitons are of Wannier type,
meaning that each exciton wavefunction extends over multiple unit cells, but with
extraordinarily large binding energy (∼0.7 electronvolts), leading to a
quasiparticle bandgap of 2.7 electronvolts. These strongly bound exciton states
are observed to be stable even at room temperature. We reveal an exciton series
that deviates substantially from hydrogen models, with a novel energy dependence 
on the orbital angular momentum. These excitonic energy levels are experimentally
found to be robust against environmental perturbations. The discovery of
excitonic dark states and exceptionally large binding energy not only sheds light
on the importance of many-electron effects in this two-dimensional gapped system,
but also holds potential for the device application of TMDC monolayers and their 
heterostructures in computing, communication and bio-sensing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13734 
PMID: 25162523 


353. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):224-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13546. Epub 2014 Aug 24.

A major advance of tropical Andean glaciers during the Antarctic cold reversal.

Jomelli V(1), Favier V(2), Vuille M(3), Braucher R(4), Martin L(5), Blard PH(5), 
Colose C(3), Brunstein D(1), He F(6), Khodri M(7), Bourlès DL(4), Leanni L(4),
Rinterknecht V(8), Grancher D(1), Francou B(9), Ceballos JL(10), Fonseca H(11),
Liu Z(12), Otto-Bliesner BL(13).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne, CNRS Laboratoire de Géographie Physique,
92195 Meudon, France.
(2)Université Grenoble Alpes, LGGE, UMR 5183, F-38041 Grenoble, France.
(3)Department of Atmospheric and Environmental Sciences, University at Albany,
Albany, New York 12222, USA.
(4)Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS-IRD-Collège de France, CEREGE UM34, 13545
Aix-en-Provence, France.
(5)CNRS, Centre de Recherches Pétrographiques et Géochimiques, UMR 7358,
Université de Lorraine, BP 20, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy 54501, France.
(6)Center for Climatic Research, Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(7)IRD-Laboratoire d'Océanographie et du Climat: Expérimentation et Approche
numérique, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, F-75252 Paris Cedex 05, France.
(8)School of Geography and Geosciences Irvine Building, University of St Andrews,
St Andrews KY16 9AL, UK.
(9)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, CP 9214, La Paz, Bolivia.
(10)Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies, Bogota,
07603, Colombia.
(11)Escuela de Ingeniería Geológica, UPTC Sede Seccional Sogamoso, Sogamoso,
152211, Colombia.
(12)Center for Climatic Research and Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic
Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(13)Climate and Global Dynamics Division, National Center for Atmospheric
Research, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.

The Younger Dryas stadial, a cold event spanning 12,800 to 11,500 years ago,
during the last deglaciation, is thought to coincide with the last major glacial 
re-advance in the tropical Andes. This interpretation relies mainly on cosmic-ray
exposure dating of glacial deposits. Recent studies, however, have established
new production rates for cosmogenic (10)Be and (3)He, which make it necessary to 
update all chronologies in this region and revise our understanding of
cryospheric responses to climate variability. Here we present a new (10)Be
moraine chronology in Colombia showing that glaciers in the northern tropical
Andes expanded to a larger extent during the Antarctic cold reversal (14,500 to
12,900 years ago) than during the Younger Dryas. On the basis of a homogenized
chronology of all (10)Be and (3)He moraine ages across the tropical Andes, we
show that this behaviour was common to the northern and southern tropical Andes. 
Transient simulations with a coupled global climate model suggest that the common
glacier behaviour was the result of Atlantic meridional overturning circulation
variability superimposed on a deglacial increase in the atmospheric carbon
dioxide concentration. During the Antarctic cold reversal, glaciers advanced
primarily in response to cold sea surface temperatures over much of the Southern 
Hemisphere. During the Younger Dryas, however, northern tropical Andes glaciers
retreated owing to abrupt regional warming in response to reduced precipitation
and land-surface feedbacks triggered by a weakened Atlantic meridional
overturning circulation. Conversely, glacier retreat during the Younger Dryas in 
the southern tropical Andes occurred as a result of progressive warming, probably
influenced by an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide. Considered with evidence
from mid-latitude Andean glaciers, our results argue for a common glacier
response to cold conditions in the Antarctic cold reversal exceeding that of the 
Younger Dryas.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13546 
PMID: 25156258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):202-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13480. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Comprehensive molecular characterization of gastric adenocarcinoma.

Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network.

Collaborators: Bass AJ, Thorsson V, Shmulevich I, Reynolds SM, Miller M, Bernard 
B, Hinoue T, Laird PW, Curtis C, Shen H, Weisenberger DJ, Schultz N, Shen R,
Weinhold N, Kelsen DP, Bowlby R, Chu A, Kasaian K, Mungall AJ, Robertson AG,
Sipahimalani P, Cherniack AD, Getz G, Liu Y, Noble MS, Pedamallu C, Sougnez C,
Taylor-Weiner A, Akbani R, Lee JS, Liu W, Mills GB, Yang D, Zhang W, Pantazi A,
Parfenov M, Gulley M, Piazuelo MB, Schneider BG, Kim J, Boussioutas A, Sheth M,
Demchok JA, Rabkin CS, Willis JE, Ng S, Garman K, Beer DG, Pennathur A, Raphael
BJ, Wu HT, Odze R, Kim HK, Bowen J, Leraas KM, Lichtenberg TM, Weaver S, McLellan
M, Wiznerowicz M, Sakai R, Getz G, Sougnez C, Lawrence MS, Cibulskis K,
Lichtenstein L, Fisher S, Gabriel SB, Lander ES, Ding L, Niu B, Ally A,
Balasundaram M, Birol I, Bowlby R, Brooks D, Butterfield YS, Carlsen R, Chu A,
Chu J, Chuah E, Chun HJ, Clarke A, Dhalla N, Guin R, Holt RA, Jones SJ, Kasaian
K, Lee D, Li HA, Lim E, Ma Y, Marra MA, Mayo M, Moore RA, Mungall AJ, Mungall KL,
Ming Nip K, Robertson AG, Schein JE, Sipahimalani P, Tam A, Thiessen N, Beroukhim
R, Carter SL, Cherniack AD, Cho J, Cibulskis K, DiCara D, Frazer S, Fisher S,
Gabriel SB, Gehlenborg N, Heiman DI, Jung J, Kim J, Lander ES, Lawrence MS,
Lichtenstein L, Lin P, Meyerson M, Ojesina AI, Sekhar Pedamallu C, Saksena G,
Schumacher SE, Sougnez C, Stojanov P, Tabak B, Taylor-Weiner A, Voet D, Rosenberg
M, Zack TI, Zhang H, Zou L, Protopopov A, Santoso N, Parfenov M, Lee S, Zhang J, 
Mahadeshwar HS, Tang J, Ren X, Seth S, Yang L, Xu AW, Song X, Pantazi A, Xi R,
Bristow CA, Hadjipanayis A, Seidman J, Chin L, Park PJ, Kucherlapati R, Akbani R,
Ling S, Liu W, Rao A, Weinstein JN, Kim SB, Lee JS, Lu Y, Mills G, Laird PW,
Hinoue T, Weisenberger DJ, Bootwalla MS, Lai PH, Shen H, Triche T Jr, Van Den
Berg DJ, Baylin SB, Herman JG, Getz G, Chin L, Liu Y, Murray BA, Noble MS, Askoy 
BA, Ciriello G, Dresdner G, Gao J, Gross B, Jacobsen A, Lee W, Ramirez R, Sander 
C, Schultz N, Senbabaoglu Y, Sinha R, Sumer SO, Sun Y, Weinhold N, Thorsson V,
Bernard B, Iype L, Kramer RW, Kreisberg R, Miller M, Reynolds SM, Rovira H,
Tasman N, Shmulevich I, Ng S, Haussler D, Stuart JM, Akbani R, Ling S, Liu W, Rao
A, Weinstein JN, Verhaak RG, Mills GB, Leiserson MD, Raphael BJ, Wu HT, Taylor
BS, Black AD, Bowen J, Carney JA, Gastier-Foster JM, Helsel C, Leraas KM,
Lichtenberg TM, McAllister C, Ramirez NC, Tabler TR, Wise L, Zmuda E, Penny R,
Crain D, Gardner J, Lau K, Curely E, Mallery D, Morris S, Paulauskis J, Shelton
T, Shelton C, Sherman M, Benz C, Lee JH, Fedosenko K, Manikhas G, Potapova O,
Voronina O, Belyaev D, Dolzhansky O, Rathmell WK, Brzezinski J, Ibbs M, Korski K,
Kycler W, Laźniak R, Leporowska E, Mackiewicz A, Murawa D, Murawa P, Spychała A, 
Suchorska WM, Tatka H, Teresiak M, Wiznerowicz M, Abdel-Misih R, Bennett J, Brown
J, Iacocca M, Rabeno B, Kwon SY, Penny R, Gardner J, Kemkes A, Mallery D, Morris 
S, Shelton T, Shelton C, Curley E, Alexopoulou I, Engel J, Bartlett J, Albert M, 
Park DY, Dhir R, Luketich J, Landreneau R, Janjigian YY, Kelsen DP, Cho E,
Ladanyi M, Tang L, McCall SJ, Park YS, Cheong JH, Ajani J, Camargo MC, Alonso S, 
Ayala B, Jensen MA, Pihl T, Raman R, Walton J, Wan Y, Demchok JA, Eley G, Mills
Shaw KR, Sheth M, Tarnuzzer R, Wang Z, Yang L, Zenklusen JC, Davidsen T, Hutter
CM, Sofia HJ, Burton R, Chudamani S, Liu J.

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2014 Oct;4(10):1108-9.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Sep;11(9):499.

Gastric cancer is a leading cause of cancer deaths, but analysis of its molecular
and clinical characteristics has been complicated by histological and
aetiological heterogeneity. Here we describe a comprehensive molecular evaluation
of 295 primary gastric adenocarcinomas as part of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) 
project. We propose a molecular classification dividing gastric cancer into four 
subtypes: tumours positive for Epstein-Barr virus, which display recurrent PIK3CA
mutations, extreme DNA hypermethylation, and amplification of JAK2, CD274 (also
known as PD-L1) and PDCD1LG2 (also known as PD-L2); microsatellite unstable
tumours, which show elevated mutation rates, including mutations of genes
encoding targetable oncogenic signalling proteins; genomically stable tumours,
which are enriched for the diffuse histological variant and mutations of RHOA or 
fusions involving RHO-family GTPase-activating proteins; and tumours with
chromosomal instability, which show marked aneuploidy and focal amplification of 
receptor tyrosine kinases. Identification of these subtypes provides a roadmap
for patient stratification and trials of targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13480 
PMCID: PMC4170219
PMID: 25079317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):242-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13459. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Viral tagging reveals discrete populations in Synechococcus viral genome sequence
space.

Deng L(1), Ignacio-Espinoza JC(2), Gregory AC(3), Poulos BT(3), Weitz JS(4),
Hugenholtz P(5), Sullivan MB(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85719, USA [2] Helmholtz Zentrum München-German Research Center
for Environmental Health, Institute of Groundwater Ecology, Neuherberg 85764,
Germany. [3].
(2)1] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85719, USA [2].
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson,
Arizona 85719, USA.
(4)1] School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332,
USA [2] School of Physics, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
30332, USA.
(5)Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, School of Chemistry and Molecular
Biosciences &Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, St
Lucia QLB 4072, Australia.
(6)1] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85719, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85719, USA.

Microbes and their viruses drive myriad processes across ecosystems ranging from 
oceans and soils to bioreactors and humans. Despite this importance, microbial
diversity is only now being mapped at scales relevant to nature, while the viral 
diversity associated with any particular host remains little researched. Here we 
quantify host-associated viral diversity using viral-tagged metagenomics, which
links viruses to specific host cells for high-throughput screening and
sequencing. In a single experiment, we screened 10(7) Pacific Ocean viruses
against a single strain of Synechococcus and found that naturally occurring
cyanophage genome sequence space is statistically clustered into discrete
populations. These population-based, host-linked viral ecological data suggest
that, for this single host and seawater sample alone, there are at least 26
double-stranded DNA viral populations with estimated relative abundances ranging 
from 0.06 to 18.2%. These populations include previously cultivated cyanophage
and new viral types missed by decades of isolate-based studies. Nucleotide
identities of homologous genes mostly varied by less than 1% within populations, 
even in hypervariable genome regions, and by 42-71% between populations, which
provides benchmarks for viral metagenomics and genome-based viral species
definitions. Together these findings showcase a new approach to viral ecology
that quantitatively links objectively defined environmental viral populations,
and their genomes, to their hosts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13459 
PMID: 25043051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):256-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13466. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Metastasis-suppressor transcript destabilization through TARBP2 binding of mRNA
hairpins.

Goodarzi H(1), Zhang S(1), Buss CG(1), Fish L(1), Tavazoie S(2), Tavazoie SF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systems Cancer Biology, Rockefeller University, 1230 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, and Department of Systems
Biology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(18):2799-800.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Sep;14(9):578.

Aberrant regulation of RNA stability has an important role in many disease
states. Deregulated post-transcriptional modulation, such as that governed by
microRNAs targeting linear sequence elements in messenger RNAs, has been
implicated in the progression of many cancer types. A defining feature of RNA is 
its ability to fold into structures. However, the roles of structural mRNA
elements in cancer progression remain unexplored. Here we performed an unbiased
search for post-transcriptional modulators of mRNA stability in breast cancer by 
conducting whole-genome transcript stability measurements in poorly and highly
metastatic isogenic human breast cancer lines. Using a computational framework
that searches RNA sequence and structure space, we discovered a family of GC-rich
structural cis-regulatory RNA elements, termed sRSEs for structural RNA stability
elements, which are significantly overrepresented in transcripts displaying
reduced stability in highly metastatic cells. By integrating computational and
biochemical approaches, we identified TARBP2, a double-stranded RNA-binding
protein implicated in microRNA processing, as the trans factor that binds the
sRSE family and similar structural elements--collectively termed TARBP2-binding
structural elements (TBSEs)--in transcripts. TARBP2 is overexpressed in
metastatic cells and metastatic human breast tumours and destabilizes transcripts
containing TBSEs. Endogenous TARBP2 promotes metastatic cell invasion and
colonization by destabilizing amyloid precursor protein (APP) and ZNF395
transcripts, two genes previously associated with Alzheimer's and Huntington's
disease, respectively. We reveal these genes to be novel metastasis suppressor
genes in breast cancer. The cleavage product of APP, extracellular amyloid-α
peptide, directly suppresses invasion while ZNF395 transcriptionally represses a 
pro-metastatic gene expression program. The expression levels of TARBP2, APP and 
ZNF395 in human breast carcinomas support their experimentally uncovered roles in
metastasis. Our findings establish a non-canonical and direct role for TARBP2 in 
mammalian gene expression regulation and reveal that regulated RNA
destabilization through protein-mediated binding of mRNA structural elements can 
govern cancer progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13466 
PMCID: PMC4440807
PMID: 25043050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):251-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13557. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase opposes renal carcinoma progression.

Li B(1), Qiu B(1), Lee DS(2), Walton ZE(3), Ochocki JD(1), Mathew LK(2), Mancuso 
A(4), Gade TP(5), Keith B(3), Nissim I(6), Simon MC(7).

Author information: 
(1)Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(2)1] Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(3)1] Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [2] Department of Cancer Biology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(4)1] Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [2] Department of Cancer Biology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [3] Department 
of Radiology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(6)1] Department of Pediatrics, Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [2] Division of Child
Development and Metabolic Disease, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(7)1] Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA [3] Department of Cell and Developmental
Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 May;193(5):1725-6.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Sep;14(9):575.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2014 Sep;11(9):482.

Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), the most common form of kidney cancer,
is characterized by elevated glycogen levels and fat deposition. These consistent
metabolic alterations are associated with normoxic stabilization of
hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) secondary to von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) mutations
that occur in over 90% of ccRCC tumours. However, kidney-specific VHL deletion in
mice fails to elicit ccRCC-specific metabolic phenotypes and tumour formation,
suggesting that additional mechanisms are essential. Recent large-scale
sequencing analyses revealed the loss of several chromatin remodelling enzymes in
a subset of ccRCC (these included polybromo-1, SET domain containing 2 and
BRCA1-associated protein-1, among others), indicating that epigenetic
perturbations are probably important contributors to the natural history of this 
disease. Here we used an integrative approach comprising pan-metabolomic
profiling and metabolic gene set analysis and determined that the gluconeogenic
enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1) is uniformly depleted in over six
hundred ccRCC tumours examined. Notably, the human FBP1 locus resides on
chromosome 9q22, the loss of which is associated with poor prognosis for ccRCC
patients. Our data further indicate that FBP1 inhibits ccRCC progression through 
two distinct mechanisms. First, FBP1 antagonizes glycolytic flux in renal tubular
epithelial cells, the presumptive ccRCC cell of origin, thereby inhibiting a
potential Warburg effect. Second, in pVHL (the protein encoded by the VHL
gene)-deficient ccRCC cells, FBP1 restrains cell proliferation, glycolysis and
the pentose phosphate pathway in a catalytic-activity-independent manner, by
inhibiting nuclear HIF function via direct interaction with the HIF inhibitory
domain. This unique dual function of the FBP1 protein explains its ubiquitous
loss in ccRCC, distinguishing FBP1 from previously identified tumour suppressors 
that are not consistently mutated in all tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13557 
PMCID: PMC4162811
PMID: 25043030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13452. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

Carbonic anhydrases, EPF2 and a novel protease mediate CO2 control of stomatal
development.

Engineer CB(1), Ghassemian M(2), Anderson JC(3), Peck SC(3), Hu H(4), Schroeder
JI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California San Diego, 
La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia,
Missouri 65211, USA.
(4)1] Division of Biological Sciences, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong
Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Oct 15;526(7573):458.

Environmental stimuli, including elevated carbon dioxide levels, regulate
stomatal development; however, the key mechanisms mediating the perception and
relay of the CO2 signal to the stomatal development machinery remain elusive. To 
adapt CO2 intake to water loss, plants regulate the development of stomatal gas
exchange pores in the aerial epidermis. A diverse range of plant species show a
decrease in stomatal density in response to the continuing rise in atmospheric
CO2 (ref. 4). To date, one mutant that exhibits deregulation of this
CO2-controlled stomatal development response, hic (which is defective in
cell-wall wax biosynthesis, ref. 5), has been identified. Here we show that
recently isolated Arabidopsis thaliana β-carbonic anhydrase double mutants
(ca1 ca4) exhibit an inversion in their response to elevated CO2, showing
increased stomatal development at elevated CO2 levels. We characterized the
mechanisms mediating this response and identified an extracellular signalling
pathway involved in the regulation of CO2-controlled stomatal development by
carbonic anhydrases. RNA-seq analyses of transcripts show that the extracellular 
pro-peptide-encoding gene EPIDERMAL PATTERNING FACTOR 2 (EPF2), but not EPF1
(ref. 9), is induced in wild-type leaves but not in ca1 ca4 mutant leaves at
elevated CO2 levels. Moreover, EPF2 is essential for CO2 control of stomatal
development. Using cell-wall proteomic analyses and CO2-dependent transcriptomic 
analyses, we identified a novel CO2-induced extracellular protease, CRSP (CO2
RESPONSE SECRETED PROTEASE), as a mediator of CO2-controlled stomatal
development. Our results identify mechanisms and genes that function in the
repression of stomatal development in leaves during atmospheric CO2 elevation,
including the carbonic-anhydrase-encoding genes CA1 and CA4 and the secreted
protease CRSP, which cleaves the pro-peptide EPF2, in turn repressing stomatal
development. Elucidation of these mechanisms advances the understanding of how
plants perceive and relay the elevated CO2 signal and provides a framework to
guide future research into how environmental challenges can modulate gas exchange
in plants.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13452 
PMCID: PMC4274335
PMID: 25043023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13451. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

The evolution of the placenta drives a shift in sexual selection in livebearing
fish.

Pollux BJ(1), Meredith RW(2), Springer MS(3), Garland T(3), Reznick DN(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, California
92521, USA [2] Experimental Zoology Group, Wageningen University, 6708 WD
Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(2)1] Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, California
92521, USA [2] Department of Biology and Molecular Biology, Montclair State
University, Montclair, New Jersey 07043, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, California 92521, 
USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Sep 8;24(17):R805-8.

The evolution of the placenta from a non-placental ancestor causes a shift of
maternal investment from pre- to post-fertilization, creating a venue for
parent-offspring conflicts during pregnancy. Theory predicts that the rise of
these conflicts should drive a shift from a reliance on pre-copulatory female
mate choice to polyandry in conjunction with post-zygotic mechanisms of sexual
selection. This hypothesis has not yet been empirically tested. Here we apply
comparative methods to test a key prediction of this hypothesis, which is that
the evolution of placentation is associated with reduced pre-copulatory female
mate choice. We exploit a unique quality of the livebearing fish family
Poeciliidae: placentas have repeatedly evolved or been lost, creating diversity
among closely related lineages in the presence or absence of placentation. We
show that post-zygotic maternal provisioning by means of a placenta is associated
with the absence of bright coloration, courtship behaviour and exaggerated
ornamental display traits in males. Furthermore, we found that males of placental
species have smaller bodies and longer genitalia, which facilitate sneak or
coercive mating and, hence, circumvents female choice. Moreover, we demonstrate
that post-zygotic maternal provisioning correlates with superfetation, a female
reproductive adaptation that may result in polyandry through the formation of
temporally overlapping, mixed-paternity litters. Our results suggest that the
emergence of prenatal conflict during the evolution of the placenta correlates
with a suite of phenotypic and behavioural male traits that is associated with a 
reduced reliance on pre-copulatory female mate choice.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13451 
PMID: 25043015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):261-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13453. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Serial time-resolved crystallography of photosystem II using a femtosecond X-ray 
laser.

Kupitz C(1), Basu S(1), Grotjohann I(2), Fromme R(2), Zatsepin NA(3), Rendek
KN(2), Hunter MS(4), Shoeman RL(5), White TA(6), Wang D(3), James D(3), Yang
JH(2), Cobb DE(2), Reeder B(2), Sierra RG(7), Liu H(3), Barty A(6), Aquila AL(8),
Deponte D(9), Kirian RA(10), Bari S(11), Bergkamp JJ(2), Beyerlein KR(6), Bogan
MJ(7), Caleman C(12), Chao TC(13), Conrad CE(2), Davis KM(14), Fleckenstein H(6),
Galli L(15), Hau-Riege SP(16), Kassemeyer S(17), Laksmono H(7), Liang M(6), Lomb 
L(5), Marchesini S(18), Martin AV(19), Messerschmidt M(20), Milathianaki D(20),
Nass K(21), Ros A(2), Roy-Chowdhury S(2), Schmidt K(3), Seibert M(22),
Steinbrener J(5), Stellato F(6), Yan L(14), Yoon C(8), Moore TA(2), Moore AL(2), 
Pushkar Y(14), Williams GJ(20), Boutet S(20), Doak RB(3), Weierstall U(3), Frank 
M(16), Chapman HN(23), Spence JC(3), Fromme P(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona 85287-1604, USA [2].
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University, Tempe,
Arizona 85287-1604, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.
(4)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona 85287-1604, USA [2] Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore,
California 94550, USA.
(5)Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung, Jahnstrasse 29, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, 
Germany.
(7)Stanford PULSE Institute, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill
Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(8)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] European XFEL GmbH, Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, Germany.
(9)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] Linac Coherent Light Source, Stanford Linear Accelerator
Center (SLAC) National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park,
California 94025, USA.
(10)1] Department of Physics, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA
[2] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg,
Germany.
(11)1] Max Planck Advanced Study Group, Center for Free-Electron Laser Science
(CFEL), Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, Germany [2] Max-Planck-Institut für
Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(12)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] Department of Physics and Astronomy, Uppsala University,
Regementsvägen 1, SE-752 37 Uppsala, Sweden.
(13)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University, Tempe,
Arizona 85287-1604, USA [2] University of Regina, 3737 Wascana Pkwy Regina,
Saskatchewan S4S 0A2, Canada.
(14)Department of Physics, Purdue University, 525 Northwestern Avenue, West
Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA.
(15)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] University of Hamburg, Luruper Chaussee 149, 22761 Hamburg, 
Germany.
(16)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA.
(17)1] Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung, Jahnstrasse 29, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany [2] Max Planck Advanced Study Group, Center for Free-Electron
Laser Science (CFEL), Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, Germany.
(18)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(19)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] Department ARC Centre of Excellence for Coherent X-ray
Science, Department of Physics, University of Melbourne, Parkville VIC 3010,
Australia.
(20)Linac Coherent Light Source, Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC)
National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California
94025, USA.
(21)1] Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung, Jahnstrasse 29, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany [2] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY,
Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, Germany [3] University of Hamburg, Luruper
Chaussee 149, 22761 Hamburg, Germany.
(22)1] Linac Coherent Light Source, Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC)
National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California
94025, USA [2] Uppsala University, Sankt Olofsgatan 10B, 753 12 Uppsala, Sweden.
(23)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] University of Hamburg, Luruper Chaussee 149, 22761 Hamburg, 
Germany [3] Center for Ultrafast Imaging, Luruper Chaussee 149, 22761 Hamburg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Cell. 2014 Aug 14;158(4):701-3.
    Nature. 2016 May 19;533(7603):E1-2.

Photosynthesis, a process catalysed by plants, algae and cyanobacteria converts
sunlight to energy thus sustaining all higher life on Earth. Two large membrane
protein complexes, photosystem I and II (PSI and PSII), act in series to catalyse
the light-driven reactions in photosynthesis. PSII catalyses the light-driven
water splitting process, which maintains the Earth's oxygenic atmosphere. In this
process, the oxygen-evolving complex (OEC) of PSII cycles through five states, S0
to S4, in which four electrons are sequentially extracted from the OEC in four
light-driven charge-separation events. Here we describe time resolved experiments
on PSII nano/microcrystals from Thermosynechococcus elongatus performed with the 
recently developed technique of serial femtosecond crystallography. Structures
have been determined from PSII in the dark S1 state and after double laser
excitation (putative S3 state) at 5 and 5.5 Å resolution, respectively. The
results provide evidence that PSII undergoes significant conformational changes
at the electron acceptor side and at the Mn4CaO5 core of the OEC. These include
an elongation of the metal cluster, accompanied by changes in the protein
environment, which could allow for binding of the second substrate water molecule
between the more distant protruding Mn (referred to as the 'dangler' Mn) and the 
Mn3CaOx cubane in the S2 to S3 transition, as predicted by spectroscopic and
computational studies. This work shows the great potential for time-resolved
serial femtosecond crystallography for investigation of catalytic processes in
biomolecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13453 
PMCID: PMC4821544
PMID: 25043005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Nature. 2014 Sep 11;513(7517):237-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13449. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

Innate immune sensing of bacterial modifications of Rho GTPases by the Pyrin
inflammasome.

Xu H(1), Yang J(2), Gao W(3), Li L(3), Li P(3), Zhang L(3), Gong YN(3), Peng
X(3), Xi JJ(4), Chen S(3), Wang F(3), Shao F(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China [2].
(2)1] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China [2]
National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China [3].
(3)National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, China.
(5)1] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing 102206, China [2]
National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China [3] National Institute of Biological
Sciences, Beijing, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Beijing
102206, China.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Nov;24(11):1286-7.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Jul;14(7):429.

Cytosolic inflammasome complexes mediated by a pattern recognition receptor (PRR)
defend against pathogen infection by activating caspase 1. Pyrin, a candidate
PRR, can bind to the inflammasome adaptor ASC to form a caspase 1-activating
complex. Mutations in the Pyrin-encoding gene, MEFV, cause a human
autoinflammatory disease known as familial Mediterranean fever. Despite important
roles in immunity and disease, the physiological function of Pyrin remains
unknown. Here we show that Pyrin mediates caspase 1 inflammasome activation in
response to Rho-glucosylation activity of cytotoxin TcdB, a major virulence
factor of Clostridium difficile, which causes most cases of nosocomial diarrhoea.
The glucosyltransferase-inactive TcdB mutant loses the inflammasome-stimulating
activity. Other Rho-inactivating toxins, including FIC-domain
adenylyltransferases (Vibrio parahaemolyticus VopS and Histophilus somni IbpA)
and Clostridium botulinum ADP-ribosylating C3 toxin, can also biochemically
activate the Pyrin inflammasome in their enzymatic activity-dependent manner.
These toxins all target the Rho subfamily and modify a switch-I residue. We
further demonstrate that Burkholderia cenocepacia inactivates RHOA by deamidating
Asn 41, also in the switch-I region, and thereby triggers Pyrin inflammasome
activation, both of which require the bacterial type VI secretion system (T6SS). 
Loss of the Pyrin inflammasome causes elevated intra-macrophage growth of B.
cenocepacia and diminished lung inflammation in mice. Thus, Pyrin functions to
sense pathogen modification and inactivation of Rho GTPases, representing a new
paradigm in mammalian innate immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13449 
PMID: 24919149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):95-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13706.

RIPK1 ensures intestinal homeostasis by protecting the epithelium against
apoptosis.

Takahashi N(1), Vereecke L(1), Bertrand MJ(1), Duprez L(1), Berger SB(2), Divert 
T(1), Gonçalves A(3), Sze M(1), Gilbert B(1), Kourula S(1), Goossens V(1),
Lefebvre S(1), Günther C(4), Becker C(4), Bertin J(2), Gough PJ(2), Declercq
W(1), van Loo G(1), Vandenabeele P(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] VIB Inflammation Research Center, Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent,
Belgium [2] Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent University,
Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Pattern Recognition Receptor Discovery Performance Unit, Immuno-inflammation
Therapeutic Area, GlaxoSmithKline, Collegeville, Pennsylvania 19426, USA.
(3)1] VIB Inflammation Research Center, Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent,
Belgium [2] Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent University,
Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium [3] VIB Bio Imaging Core Gent,
Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Department of Medicine 1, Friedrich-Alexander-University, D-91054 Erlangen,
Germany.
(5)1] VIB Inflammation Research Center, Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent,
Belgium [2] Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent University,
Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium [3] Methusalem program, Ghent
University, Technologiepark 927, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):38-40.

Receptor interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1) has an essential role in the
signalling triggered by death receptors and pattern recognition receptors. RIPK1 
is believed to function as a node driving NF-κB-mediated cell survival and
inflammation as well as caspase-8 (CASP8)-dependent apoptotic or
RIPK3/MLKL-dependent necroptotic cell death. The physiological relevance of this 
dual function has remained elusive because of the perinatal death of RIPK1 full
knockout mice. To circumvent this problem, we generated RIPK1 conditional
knockout mice, and show that mice lacking RIPK1 in intestinal epithelial cells
(IECs) spontaneously develop severe intestinal inflammation associated with IEC
apoptosis leading to early death. This early lethality was rescued by antibiotic 
treatment, MYD88 deficiency or tumour-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor 1
deficiency, demonstrating the importance of commensal bacteria and TNF in the IEC
Ripk1 knockout phenotype. CASP8 deficiency, but not RIPK3 deficiency, rescued the
inflammatory phenotype completely, indicating the indispensable role of RIPK1 in 
suppressing CASP8-dependent apoptosis but not RIPK3-dependent necroptosis in the 
intestine. RIPK1 kinase-dead knock-in mice did not exhibit any sign of
inflammation, suggesting that RIPK1-mediated protection resides in its
kinase-independent platform function. Depletion of RIPK1 in intestinal organoid
cultures sensitized them to TNF-induced apoptosis, confirming the in vivo
observations. Unexpectedly, TNF-mediated NF-κB activation remained intact in
these organoids. Our results demonstrate that RIPK1 is essential for survival of 
IECs, ensuring epithelial homeostasis by protecting the epithelium from
CASP8-mediated IEC apoptosis independently of its kinase activity and NF-κB
activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13706 
PMID: 25186904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):85-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13703.

Asymmetric three-dimensional topography over mantle plumes.

Burov E(1), Gerya T(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Université Paris 06, UMR 7193, Institut des
Sciences de la Terre Paris (iSTeP), F-75005 Paris, France [2] CNRS, UMR 7193,
Institut des Sciences de la Terre Paris (iSTeP), F-75005 Paris, France.
(2)ETH, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):36-7.

The role of mantle-lithosphere interactions in shaping surface topography has
long been debated. In general, it is supposed that mantle plumes and vertical
mantle flows result in axisymmetric, long-wavelength topography, which strongly
differs from the generally asymmetric short-wavelength topography created by
intraplate tectonic forces. However, identification of mantle-induced topography 
is difficult, especially in the continents. It can be argued therefore that
complex brittle-ductile rheology and stratification of the continental
lithosphere result in short-wavelength modulation and localization of deformation
induced by mantle flow. This deformation should also be affected by far-field
stresses and, hence, interplay with the 'tectonic' topography (for example, in
the 'active/passive' rifting scenario). Testing these ideas requires fully
coupled three-dimensional numerical modelling of mantle-lithosphere interactions,
which so far has not been possible owing to the conceptual and technical
limitations of earlier approaches. Here we present new, ultra-high-resolution,
three-dimensional numerical experiments on topography over mantle plumes,
incorporating a weakly pre-stressed (ultra-slow spreading), rheologically
realistic lithosphere. The results show complex surface evolution, which is very 
different from the smooth, radially symmetric patterns usually assumed as the
canonical surface signature of mantle upwellings. In particular, the topography
exhibits strongly asymmetric, small-scale, three-dimensional features, which
include narrow and wide rifts, flexural flank uplifts and fault structures. This 
suggests a dominant role for continental rheological structure and intra-plate
stresses in controlling dynamic topography, mantle-lithosphere interactions, and 
continental break-up processes above mantle plumes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13703 
PMID: 25186903 


364. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13604.

Temperature sensitivity of soil respiration rates enhanced by microbial community
response.

Karhu K(1), Auffret MD(2), Dungait JA(3), Hopkins DW(4), Prosser JI(2), Singh
BK(5), Subke JA(6), Wookey PA(7), Agren GI(8), Sebastià MT(9), Gouriveau F(10),
Bergkvist G(11), Meir P(12), Nottingham AT(13), Salinas N(14), Hartley IP(15).

Author information: 
(1)1] Geography, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of
Exeter, Exeter EX4 4RJ, UK [2] Department of Forest Sciences, University of
Helsinki, 00014 Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen,
Aberdeen AB24 3UU, UK.
(3)Rothamsted Research-North Wyke, Okehampton, Devon EX20 2SB, UK.
(4)School of Agriculture, Food &Environment, The Royal Agricultural University,
Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 6JS, UK.
(5)Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, University of Western Sydney,
Penrith 2751, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)School of Natural Sciences, Biological and Environmental Sciences, University 
of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4LA, UK.
(7)School of Life Sciences, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh EH14 4AS, UK.
(8)Department of Ecology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), 750 
07 Uppsala, Sweden.
(9)1] Laboratory of Functional Ecology and Global Change, Forest Sciences Centre 
of Catalonia (CTFC), 25280 Solsona, Spain [2] Department of Horticulture, Botany 
and Landscaping, School of Agrifood and Forestry Science and Engineering,
University of Lleida, 25198 Lleida, Spain.
(10)Laboratory of Functional Ecology and Global Change, Forest Sciences Centre of
Catalonia (CTFC), 25280 Solsona, Spain.
(11)Department of Crop Production Ecology, Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences (SLU), 750 07 Uppsala, Sweden.
(12)1] School of Geosciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9XP, UK [2] 
Research School of Biology, The Australian National University, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory 0200, Australia.
(13)School of Geosciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9XP, UK.
(14)Seccion Quimica, Pontificia Universidad Catolica del Peru, Lima 32, Peru.
(15)Geography, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter, 
Exeter EX4 4RJ, UK.

Soils store about four times as much carbon as plant biomass, and soil microbial 
respiration releases about 60 petagrams of carbon per year to the atmosphere as
carbon dioxide. Short-term experiments have shown that soil microbial respiration
increases exponentially with temperature. This information has been incorporated 
into soil carbon and Earth-system models, which suggest that warming-induced
increases in carbon dioxide release from soils represent an important positive
feedback loop that could influence twenty-first-century climate change. The
magnitude of this feedback remains uncertain, however, not least because the
response of soil microbial communities to changing temperatures has the potential
to either decrease or increase warming-induced carbon losses substantially. Here 
we collect soils from different ecosystems along a climate gradient from the
Arctic to the Amazon and investigate how microbial community-level responses
control the temperature sensitivity of soil respiration. We find that the
microbial community-level response more often enhances than reduces the mid- to
long-term (90 days) temperature sensitivity of respiration. Furthermore, the
strongest enhancing responses were observed in soils with high carbon-to-nitrogen
ratios and in soils from cold climatic regions. After 90 days, microbial
community responses increased the temperature sensitivity of respiration in
high-latitude soils by a factor of 1.4 compared to the instantaneous temperature 
response. This suggests that the substantial carbon stores in Arctic and boreal
soils could be more vulnerable to climate warming than currently predicted.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13604 
PMID: 25186902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):77-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13694.

Hierarchical organization of chiral rafts in colloidal membranes.

Sharma P(1), Ward A(1), Gibaud T(2), Hagan MF(3), Dogic Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, Brandeis University, 415 South Street, Waltham,
Massachusetts 02454, USA [2].
(2)Laboratoire de Physique, École Normale Supérieure de Lyon, Université de Lyon 
I, CNRS/UMR 5672, 46 allée d'Italie, 69007 Lyon, France.
(3)Department of Physics, Brandeis University, 415 South Street, Waltham,
Massachusetts 02454, USA.

Liquid-liquid phase separation is ubiquitous in suspensions of nanoparticles,
proteins and colloids. It has an important role in gel formation, protein
crystallization and perhaps even as an organizing principle in cellular biology. 
With a few notable exceptions, liquid-liquid phase separation in bulk proceeds
through the continuous coalescence of droplets until the system undergoes
complete phase separation. But when colloids, nanoparticles or proteins are
confined to interfaces, surfaces or membranes, their interactions differ
fundamentally from those mediated by isotropic solvents, and this results in
significantly more complex phase behaviour. Here we show that liquid-liquid phase
separation in monolayer membranes composed of two dissimilar chiral colloidal
rods gives rise to thermodynamically stable rafts that constantly exchange
monomeric rods with the background reservoir to maintain a self-limited size. We 
visualize and manipulate rafts to quantify their assembly kinetics and to show
that membrane distortions arising from the rods' chirality lead to long-range
repulsive raft-raft interactions. Rafts assemble into cluster crystals at high
densities, but they can also form bonds to yield higher-order structures. Taken
together, our observations demonstrate a robust membrane-based pathway for the
assembly of monodisperse membrane clusters that is complementary to existing
methods for colloid assembly in bulk suspensions. They also reveal that chiral
inclusions in membranes can acquire long-range repulsive interactions, which
might more generally have a role in stabilizing assemblages of finite size.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13694 
PMID: 25186901 


366. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):71-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13674.

The Laniakea supercluster of galaxies.

Tully RB(1), Courtois H(2), Hoffman Y(3), Pomarède D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii 96822, USA.
(2)Université Claude Bernard Lyon I, Institut de Physique Nucléaire, Université
Lyon I, CNRS/IN2P3, Lyon 69622, France.
(3)Racah Institute of Physics, Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.
(4)Institut de Recherche sur les Lois Fondamentales de l'Univers, CEA/Saclay,
91191 Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):41-2.

Galaxies congregate in clusters and along filaments, and are missing from large
regions referred to as voids. These structures are seen in maps derived from
spectroscopic surveys that reveal networks of structure that are interconnected
with no clear boundaries. Extended regions with a high concentration of galaxies 
are called 'superclusters', although this term is not precise. There is, however,
another way to analyse the structure. If the distance to each galaxy from Earth
is directly measured, then the peculiar velocity can be derived from the
subtraction of the mean cosmic expansion, the product of distance times the
Hubble constant, from observed velocity. The peculiar velocity is the
line-of-sight departure from the cosmic expansion and arises from gravitational
perturbations; a map of peculiar velocities can be translated into a map of the
distribution of matter. Here we report a map of structure made using a catalogue 
of peculiar velocities. We find locations where peculiar velocity flows diverge, 
as water does at watershed divides, and we trace the surface of divergent points 
that surrounds us. Within the volume enclosed by this surface, the motions of
galaxies are inward after removal of the mean cosmic expansion and long range
flows. We define a supercluster to be the volume within such a surface, and so we
are defining the extent of our home supercluster, which we call Laniakea.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13674 
PMID: 25186900 


367. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):45-53. doi: 10.1038/nature13636.

Migrations and dynamics of the intertropical convergence zone.

Schneider T(1), Bischoff T(1), Haug GH(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [2]
Department of Earth Sciences, ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Earth Sciences, ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.

Rainfall on Earth is most intense in the intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ), a
narrow belt of clouds centred on average around six degrees north of the Equator.
The mean position of the ITCZ north of the Equator arises primarily because the
Atlantic Ocean transports energy northward across the Equator, rendering the
Northern Hemisphere warmer than the Southern Hemisphere. On seasonal and longer
timescales, the ITCZ migrates, typically towards a warming hemisphere but with
exceptions, such as during El Niño events. An emerging framework links the ITCZ
to the atmospheric energy balance and may account for ITCZ variations on
timescales from years to geological epochs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13636 
PMID: 25186899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):54-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13708. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Developmental plasticity and the origin of tetrapods.

Standen EM(1), Du TY(2), Larsson HC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of Ottawa, Gendron Hall, 30 Marie Curie
Private, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5, Canada.
(2)Redpath Museum, McGill University, 859 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal,
Quebec H3A 0C4, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):37-8.

The origin of tetrapods from their fish antecedents, approximately 400 million
years ago, was coupled with the origin of terrestrial locomotion and the
evolution of supporting limbs. Polypterus is a member of the basal-most group of 
ray-finned fish (actinopterygians) and has many plesiomorphic morphologies that
are comparable to elpistostegid fishes, which are stem tetrapods. Polypterus
therefore serves as an extant analogue of stem tetrapods, allowing us to examine 
how developmental plasticity affects the 'terrestrialization' of fish. We
measured the developmental plasticity of anatomical and biomechanical responses
in Polypterus reared on land. Here we show the remarkable correspondence between 
the environmentally induced phenotypes of terrestrialized Polypterus and the
ancient anatomical changes in stem tetrapods, and we provide insight into stem
tetrapod behavioural evolution. Our results raise the possibility that
environmentally induced developmental plasticity facilitated the origin of the
terrestrial traits that led to tetrapods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13708 
PMID: 25162530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):120-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13695.

Saturation editing of genomic regions by multiplex homology-directed repair.

Findlay GM(1), Boyle EA(1), Hause RJ(2), Klein JC(2), Shendure J(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [2].
(2)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):40-1.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Oct;15(10):646.
    Nat Methods. 2014 Oct;11(10):994.

Saturation mutagenesis--coupled to an appropriate biological assay--represents a 
fundamental means of achieving a high-resolution understanding of regulatory and 
protein-coding nucleic acid sequences of interest. However, mutagenized sequences
introduced in trans on episomes or via random or "safe-harbour" integration fail 
to capture the native context of the endogenous chromosomal locus. This
shortcoming markedly limits the interpretability of the resulting measurements of
mutational impact. Here, we couple CRISPR/Cas9 RNA-guided cleavage with multiplex
homology-directed repair using a complex library of donor templates to
demonstrate saturation editing of genomic regions. In exon 18 of BRCA1, we
replace a six-base-pair (bp) genomic region with all possible hexamers, or the
full exon with all possible single nucleotide variants (SNVs), and measure strong
effects on transcript abundance attributable to nonsense-mediated decay and
exonic splicing elements. We similarly perform saturation genome editing of a
well-conserved coding region of an essential gene, DBR1, and measure relative
effects on growth that correlate with functional impact. Measurement of the
functional consequences of large numbers of mutations with saturation genome
editing will potentially facilitate high-resolution functional dissection of both
cis-regulatory elements and trans-acting factors, as well as the interpretation
of variants of uncertain significance observed in clinical sequencing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13695 
PMCID: PMC4156553
PMID: 25141179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):74-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13710. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

A 400-solar-mass black hole in the galaxy M82.

Pasham DR(1), Strohmayer TE(2), Mushotzky RF(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Astronomy Department, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA [2] Astrophysics Science Division and Joint Space-Science Institute, NASA
Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(2)Astrophysics Science Division and Joint Space-Science Institute, NASA Goddard 
Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(3)Astronomy Department, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA.

M82 X-1, the brightest X-ray source in the galaxy M82, has been thought to be an 
intermediate-mass black hole (100 to 10,000 solar masses) because of its
extremely high luminosity and variability characteristics, although some models
suggest that its mass may be only about 20 solar masses. The previous mass
estimates were based on scaling relations that use low-frequency characteristic
timescales which have large intrinsic uncertainties. For stellar-mass black
holes, we know that the high-frequency quasi-periodic oscillations
(100-450 hertz) in the X-ray emission that occur in a 3:2 frequency ratio are
stable and scale in frequency inversely with black hole mass with a reasonably
small dispersion. The discovery of such stable oscillations thus potentially
offers an alternative and less ambiguous means of mass determination for
intermediate-mass black holes, but has hitherto not been realized. Here we report
stable, twin-peak (3:2 frequency ratio) X-ray quasi-periodic oscillations from
M82 X-1 at frequencies of 3.32 ± 0.06 hertz and 5.07 ± 0.06 hertz. Assuming that 
we can extrapolate the inverse-mass scaling that holds for stellar-mass black
holes, we estimate the black hole mass of M82 X-1 to be 428 ± 105 solar masses.
In addition, we can estimate the mass using the relativistic precession model,
from which we get a value of 415 ± 63 solar masses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13710 
PMID: 25132552 


371. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):90-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13608. Epub 2014 Aug 17.

RIPK1 maintains epithelial homeostasis by inhibiting apoptosis and necroptosis.

Dannappel M(1), Vlantis K(1), Kumari S(1), Polykratis A(1), Kim C(2), Wachsmuth
L(2), Eftychi C(2), Lin J(2), Corona T(2), Hermance N(3), Zelic M(3), Kirsch
P(4), Basic M(5), Bleich A(5), Kelliher M(6), Pasparakis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Genetics, Centre for Molecular Medicine (CMMC), and Cologne
Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases
(CECAD), University of Cologne, 50931 Cologne, Germany [2].
(2)Institute for Genetics, Centre for Molecular Medicine (CMMC), and Cologne
Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases
(CECAD), University of Cologne, 50931 Cologne, Germany.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.
(4)Tierforschungszentrum, University of Ulm, Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, D-89081
Ulm, Germany.
(5)Institute for Laboratory Animal Science, Hannover Medical School, D-30625
Hannover, Germany.
(6)1] Department of Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):38-40.

Necroptosis has emerged as an important pathway of programmed cell death in
embryonic development, tissue homeostasis, immunity and inflammation. RIPK1 is
implicated in inflammatory and cell death signalling and its kinase activity is
believed to drive RIPK3-mediated necroptosis. Here we show that
kinase-independent scaffolding RIPK1 functions regulate homeostasis and prevent
inflammation in barrier tissues by inhibiting epithelial cell apoptosis and
necroptosis. Intestinal epithelial cell (IEC)-specific RIPK1 knockout caused IEC 
apoptosis, villus atrophy, loss of goblet and Paneth cells and premature death in
mice. This pathology developed independently of the microbiota and of MyD88
signalling but was partly rescued by TNFR1 (also known as TNFRSF1A) deficiency.
Epithelial FADD ablation inhibited IEC apoptosis and prevented the premature
death of mice with IEC-specific RIPK1 knockout. However, mice lacking both RIPK1 
and FADD in IECs displayed RIPK3-dependent IEC necroptosis, Paneth cell loss and 
focal erosive inflammatory lesions in the colon. Moreover, a RIPK1 kinase
inactive knock-in delayed but did not prevent inflammation caused by FADD
deficiency in IECs or keratinocytes, showing that RIPK3-dependent necroptosis of 
FADD-deficient epithelial cells only partly requires RIPK1 kinase activity.
Epidermis-specific RIPK1 knockout triggered keratinocyte apoptosis and
necroptosis and caused severe skin inflammation that was prevented by RIPK3 but
not FADD deficiency. These findings revealed that RIPK1 inhibits RIPK3-mediated
necroptosis in keratinocytes in vivo and identified necroptosis as a more potent 
trigger of inflammation compared with apoptosis. Therefore, RIPK1 is a master
regulator of epithelial cell survival, homeostasis and inflammation in the
intestine and the skin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13608 
PMCID: PMC4206266
PMID: 25132550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13572. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

eIF4F is a nexus of resistance to anti-BRAF and anti-MEK cancer therapies.

Boussemart L(1), Malka-Mahieu H(2), Girault I(3), Allard D(4), Hemmingsson O(5), 
Tomasic G(6), Thomas M(7), Basmadjian C(8), Ribeiro N(8), Thuaud F(8), Mateus
C(7), Routier E(7), Kamsu-Kom N(4), Agoussi S(4), Eggermont AM(9), Désaubry L(8),
Robert C(10), Vagner S(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France [2] Université Paris-Sud XI,
Kremlin-Bicêtre F-94276, France [3] Gustave Roussy, Dermato-Oncology, Villejuif
F-94805, France [4].
(2)1] Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France [2] Université Paris-Sud XI,
Kremlin-Bicêtre F-94276, France [3].
(3)1] Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France [2].
(4)Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France.
(5)1] Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France [2] Department of Surgical and
Perioperative Sciences, Umeå University, Umeå SE-90187, Sweden (O.H.); CNRS
UMR3348, Institut Curie, Orsay F-91405, France (S.V.).
(6)Gustave Roussy, Pathology Department, Villejuif F-94805, France.
(7)Gustave Roussy, Dermato-Oncology, Villejuif F-94805, France.
(8)CNRS-Strasbourg University, UMR7200, Illkirch F-67400, France.
(9)1] Université Paris-Sud XI, Kremlin-Bicêtre F-94276, France [2] Gustave
Roussy, Dermato-Oncology, Villejuif F-94805, France.
(10)1] Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France [2] Université Paris-Sud XI,
Kremlin-Bicêtre F-94276, France [3] Gustave Roussy, Dermato-Oncology, Villejuif
F-94805, France.
(11)1] Inserm UMR981, Villejuif F-94805, France [2] Université Paris-Sud XI,
Kremlin-Bicêtre F-94276, France [3] Gustave Roussy, Dermato-Oncology, Villejuif
F-94805, France [4] Department of Surgical and Perioperative Sciences, Umeå
University, Umeå SE-90187, Sweden (O.H.); CNRS UMR3348, Institut Curie, Orsay
F-91405, France (S.V.).

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2015 Jan;28(1):4-5.

In BRAF(V600)-mutant tumours, most mechanisms of resistance to drugs that target 
the BRAF and/or MEK kinases rely on reactivation of the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction pathway, on
activation of the alternative, PI(3)K-AKT-mTOR, pathway (which is ERK
independent) or on modulation of the caspase-dependent apoptotic cascade. All
three pathways converge to regulate the formation of the eIF4F eukaryotic
translation initiation complex, which binds to the 7-methylguanylate cap (m(7)G) 
at the 5' end of messenger RNA, thereby modulating the translation of specific
mRNAs. Here we show that the persistent formation of the eIF4F complex,
comprising the eIF4E cap-binding protein, the eIF4G scaffolding protein and the
eIF4A RNA helicase, is associated with resistance to anti-BRAF, anti-MEK and
anti-BRAF plus anti-MEK drug combinations in BRAF(V600)-mutant melanoma, colon
and thyroid cancer cell lines. Resistance to treatment and maintenance of eIF4F
complex formation is associated with one of three mechanisms: reactivation of
MAPK signalling, persistent ERK-independent phosphorylation of the inhibitory
eIF4E-binding protein 4EBP1 or increased pro-apoptotic BCL-2-modifying factor
(BMF)-dependent degradation of eIF4G. The development of an in situ method to
detect the eIF4E-eIF4G interactions shows that eIF4F complex formation is
decreased in tumours that respond to anti-BRAF therapy and increased in resistant
metastases compared to tumours before treatment. Strikingly, inhibiting the eIF4F
complex, either by blocking the eIF4E-eIF4G interaction or by targeting eIF4A,
synergizes with inhibiting BRAF(V600) to kill the cancer cells. eIF4F not only
appears to be an indicator of both innate and acquired resistance but also is a
promising therapeutic target. Combinations of drugs targeting BRAF (and/or MEK)
and eIF4F may overcome most of the resistance mechanisms arising in
BRAF(V600)-mutant cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13572 
PMID: 25079330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):59-64. doi: 10.1038/nature13568. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Alterations of the human gut microbiome in liver cirrhosis.

Qin N(1), Yang F(2), Li A(2), Prifti E(3), Chen Y(2), Shao L(1), Guo J(4), Le
Chatelier E(5), Yao J(6), Wu L(4), Zhou J(4), Ni S(4), Liu L(4), Pons N(5), Batto
JM(5), Kennedy SP(5), Leonard P(5), Yuan C(4), Ding W(4), Chen Y(4), Hu X(4),
Zheng B(6), Qian G(4), Xu W(4), Ehrlich SD(7), Zheng S(8), Li L(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Disease, The
First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, 310003
Hangzhou, China [2] Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment
of Infectious Diseases, Zhejiang University, 310003 Hangzhou, China [3].
(2)1] State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Disease, The
First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, 310003
Hangzhou, China [2].
(3)1] Metagenopolis, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, 78350 Jouy en
Josas, France [2].
(4)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Disease, The
First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, 310003
Hangzhou, China.
(5)Metagenopolis, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, 78350 Jouy en
Josas, France.
(6)1] State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Disease, The
First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, 310003
Hangzhou, China [2] Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment
of Infectious Diseases, Zhejiang University, 310003 Hangzhou, China.
(7)1] Metagenopolis, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, 78350 Jouy en
Josas, France [2] King's College London, Centre for Host-Microbiome Interactions,
Dental Institute Central Office, Guy's Hospital, London Bridge, London SE1 9RT,
UK.
(8)1] Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, Zhejiang University, 310003 Hangzhou, China [2] Key Laboratory of
Combined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, the First
Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University, 310003 Hangzhou, China.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2016 Jan;63(1):336-8.
    Nature. 2015 Sep 17;525(7569):E1-2.
    Nature. 2015 Sep 17;525(7569):E2-3.

Liver cirrhosis occurs as a consequence of many chronic liver diseases that are
prevalent worldwide. Here we characterize the gut microbiome in liver cirrhosis
by comparing 98 patients and 83 healthy control individuals. We build a reference
gene set for the cohort containing 2.69 million genes, 36.1% of which are novel. 
Quantitative metagenomics reveals 75,245 genes that differ in abundance between
the patients and healthy individuals (false discovery rate < 0.0001) and can be
grouped into 66 clusters representing cognate bacterial species; 28 are enriched 
in patients and 38 in control individuals. Most (54%) of the patient-enriched,
taxonomically assigned species are of buccal origin, suggesting an invasion of
the gut from the mouth in liver cirrhosis. Biomarkers specific to liver cirrhosis
at gene and function levels are revealed by a comparison with those for type 2
diabetes and inflammatory bowel disease. On the basis of only 15 biomarkers, a
highly accurate patient discrimination index is created and validated on an
independent cohort. Thus microbiota-targeted biomarkers may be a powerful tool
for diagnosis of different diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13568 
PMID: 25079328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):65-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13485. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

RNA G-quadruplexes cause eIF4A-dependent oncogene translation in cancer.

Wolfe AL(1), Singh K(2), Zhong Y(3), Drewe P(3), Rajasekhar VK(4), Sanghvi VR(5),
Mavrakis KJ(6), Jiang M(5), Roderick JE(7), Van der Meulen J(8), Schatz JH(9),
Rodrigo CM(10), Zhao C(5), Rondou P(11), de Stanchina E(12), Teruya-Feldstein
J(13), Kelliher MA(7), Speleman F(11), Porco JA Jr(10), Pelletier J(14), Rätsch
G(3), Wendel HG(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
New York, New York 10065, USA [3].
(2)1] Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2].
(3)Computational Biology Department, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)Stem Cell Center and Developmental Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(5)Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York,
New York 10065, USA.
(6)1] Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Novartis, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA
(K.J.M.); The University of Arizona Cancer Center, Tucson, Arizona 85719, USA
(J.H.S.).
(7)Department of Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, Massachusetts 01605 USA.
(8)1] Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Center for Medical Genetics, Ghent University
Hospital, De Pintelaan 185, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(9)1] Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [3] Novartis, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA (K.J.M.); The University of Arizona Cancer Center,
Tucson, Arizona 85719, USA (J.H.S.).
(10)Department of Chemistry, Center for Chemical Methodology and Library
Development, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(11)Center for Medical Genetics, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 185,
B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(12)Molecular Pharmacology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA.
(13)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York,
New York 10065, USA.
(14)1] Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3G 1Y6,
Canada [2] Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3G 1Y6,
Canada [3] The Rosalind and Morris Goodman Cancer Research Center, McGill
University, Montreal, Quebec H3G 1Y6, Canada.

The translational control of oncoprotein expression is implicated in many
cancers. Here we report an eIF4A RNA helicase-dependent mechanism of
translational control that contributes to oncogenesis and underlies the
anticancer effects of silvestrol and related compounds. For example, eIF4A
promotes T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia development in vivo and is required
for leukaemia maintenance. Accordingly, inhibition of eIF4A with silvestrol has
powerful therapeutic effects against murine and human leukaemic cells in vitro
and in vivo. We use transcriptome-scale ribosome footprinting to identify the
hallmarks of eIF4A-dependent transcripts. These include 5' untranslated region
(UTR) sequences such as the 12-nucleotide guanine quartet (CGG)4 motif that can
form RNA G-quadruplex structures. Notably, among the most eIF4A-dependent and
silvestrol-sensitive transcripts are a number of oncogenes,
superenhancer-associated transcription factors, and epigenetic regulators. Hence,
the 5' UTRs of select cancer genes harbour a targetable requirement for the eIF4A
RNA helicase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13485 
PMCID: PMC4492470
PMID: 25079319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):124-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13494. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

High-resolution structure of the human GPR40 receptor bound to allosteric agonist
TAK-875.

Srivastava A(1), Yano J(1), Hirozane Y(2), Kefala G(3), Gruswitz F(4), Snell
G(3), Lane W(3), Ivetac A(3), Aertgeerts K(4), Nguyen J(4), Jennings A(3), Okada 
K(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Structural Biology and Core Sciences &Technology, Takeda
California, 10410 Science Center Drive, San Diego, California 92121, USA [2].
(2)Biomolecular Research Laboratories, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Takeda
Pharmaceutical Company Ltd, 26-1, Muraoka-Higashi 2-chome, Fujisawa, Kanagawa
251-8555, Japan.
(3)Department of Structural Biology and Core Sciences &Technology, Takeda
California, 10410 Science Center Drive, San Diego, California 92121, USA.
(4)1] Department of Structural Biology and Core Sciences &Technology, Takeda
California, 10410 Science Center Drive, San Diego, California 92121, USA [2]
Beryllium, Membrane Protein Sciences, 7869 NE Day Road West, Bainbridge Island,
Washington 98110, USA (F.G.); Dart Neuroscience, 12278 Scripps Summit Drive, San 
Diego, California 92131, USA (K.A. and J.N.).

Human GPR40 receptor (hGPR40), also known as free fatty-acid receptor 1 (FFAR1), 
is a G-protein-coupled receptor that binds long-chain free fatty acids to enhance
glucose-dependent insulin secretion. Novel treatments for type-2 diabetes
mellitus are therefore possible by targeting hGPR40 with partial or full
agonists. TAK-875, or fasiglifam, is an orally available, potent and selective
partial agonist of hGPR40 receptor, which reached phase III clinical trials for
the potential treatment of type-2 diabetes mellitus. Data from clinical studies
indicate that TAK-875, which is an ago-allosteric modulator of hGPR40 (ref. 3),
demonstrates improved glycaemic control and low hypoglycaemic risk in diabetic
patients. Here we report the crystal structure of hGPR40 receptor bound to
TAK-875 at 2.3 Å resolution. The co-complex structure reveals a unique binding
mode of TAK-875 and suggests that entry to the non-canonical binding pocket most 
probably occurs via the lipid bilayer. The atomic details of the extensive charge
network in the ligand binding pocket reveal additional interactions not
identified in previous studies and contribute to a clear understanding of TAK-875
binding to the receptor. The hGPR40-TAK-875 structure also provides insights into
the plausible binding of multiple ligands to the receptor, which has been
observed in radioligand binding and Ca(2+) influx assay studies. Comparison of
the transmembrane helix architecture with other G-protein-coupled receptors
suggests that the crystallized TAK-875-bound hGPR40 complex is in an
inactive-like state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13494 
PMID: 25043059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):100-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13528. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Tumour-derived PTH-related protein triggers adipose tissue browning and cancer
cachexia.

Kir S(1), White JP(1), Kleiner S(1), Kazak L(1), Cohen P(1), Baracos VE(2),
Spiegelman BM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)Department of Oncology, Division of Palliative Care Medicine, University of
Alberta, Edmonton T6G 1Z2, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Sep;14(9):576.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Oct;10(10):578.

Cachexia is a wasting disorder of adipose and skeletal muscle tissues that leads 
to profound weight loss and frailty. About half of all cancer patients suffer
from cachexia, which impairs quality of life, limits cancer therapy and decreases
survival. One key characteristic of cachexia is higher resting energy expenditure
levels than in healthy individuals, which has been linked to greater
thermogenesis by brown fat. How tumours induce brown fat activity is unknown.
Here, using a Lewis lung carcinoma model of cancer cachexia, we show that
tumour-derived parathyroid-hormone-related protein (PTHrP) has an important role 
in wasting, through driving the expression of genes involved in thermogenesis in 
adipose tissues. Neutralization of PTHrP in tumour-bearing mice blocked adipose
tissue browning and the loss of muscle mass and strength. Our results demonstrate
that PTHrP mediates energy wasting in fat tissues and contributes to the broader 
aspects of cancer cachexia. Thus, neutralization of PTHrP might hold promise for 
ameliorating cancer cachexia and improving patient survival.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13528 
PMCID: PMC4224962
PMID: 25043053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13441. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Mutant IDH inhibits HNF-4α to block hepatocyte differentiation and promote
biliary cancer.

Saha SK(1), Parachoniak CA(1), Ghanta KS(2), Fitamant J(2), Ross KN(2), Najem
MS(2), Gurumurthy S(2), Akbay EA(3), Sia D(4), Cornella H(5), Miltiadous O(6),
Walesky C(7), Deshpande V(2), Zhu AX(2), Hezel AF(8), Yen KE(9), Straley KS(9),
Travins J(9), Popovici-Muller J(9), Gliser C(9), Ferrone CR(2), Apte U(7), Llovet
JM(10), Wong KK(3), Ramaswamy S(11), Bardeesy N(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2].
(2)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Department of
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)1] HCC Translational Research Laboratory, Barcelona-Clínic Liver Cancer Group,
Liver Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS),
Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Catalonia 08036, Spain [2] Mount Sinai 
Liver Cancer Program, Division of Liver Diseases, Dept of Medicine. Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 10029, USA [3] Gastrointestinal Surgery and 
Liver Transplantation Unit, National Cancer Institute, and Department of
Experimental Oncology, Milan 20133, Italy.
(5)HCC Translational Research Laboratory, Barcelona-Clínic Liver Cancer Group,
Liver Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS),
Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Catalonia 08036, Spain.
(6)Mount Sinai Liver Cancer Program, Division of Liver Diseases, Dept of
Medicine. Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 10029, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutics, University of Kansas 
Medical Center, Kansas City, Kansas 66160, USA.
(8)University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New York 14642, USA.
(9)Agios Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(10)1] HCC Translational Research Laboratory, Barcelona-Clínic Liver Cancer
Group, Liver Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer
(IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Catalonia 08036, Spain [2]
Mount Sinai Liver Cancer Program, Division of Liver Diseases, Dept of Medicine.
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 10029, USA [3] Institució
Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats, Barcelona, Catalonia 08010, Spain [4]
University of Barcelona, Catalonia 08036, Spain.
(11)1] Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Dec 3;528(7580):152.

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2014 Sep;4(9):OF9.

Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) and IDH2 are among the most common
genetic alterations in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (IHCC), a deadly liver
cancer. Mutant IDH proteins in IHCC and other malignancies acquire an abnormal
enzymatic activity allowing them to convert α-ketoglutarate (αKG) to
2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG), which inhibits the activity of multiple αKG-dependent
dioxygenases, and results in alterations in cell differentiation, survival, and
extracellular matrix maturation. However, the molecular pathways by which IDH
mutations lead to tumour formation remain unclear. Here we show that mutant IDH
blocks liver progenitor cells from undergoing hepatocyte differentiation through 
the production of 2HG and suppression of HNF-4α, a master regulator of hepatocyte
identity and quiescence. Correspondingly, genetically engineered mouse models
expressing mutant IDH in the adult liver show an aberrant response to hepatic
injury, characterized by HNF-4α silencing, impaired hepatocyte differentiation,
and markedly elevated levels of cell proliferation. Moreover, IDH and Kras
mutations, genetic alterations that co-exist in a subset of human IHCCs,
cooperate to drive the expansion of liver progenitor cells, development of
premalignant biliary lesions, and progression to metastatic IHCC. These studies
provide a functional link between IDH mutations, hepatic cell fate, and IHCC
pathogenesis, and present a novel genetically engineered mouse model of
IDH-driven malignancy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13441 
PMCID: PMC4499230
PMID: 25043045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Nature. 2014 Sep 4;513(7516):115-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13458. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Dynamic and static maintenance of epigenetic memory in pluripotent and somatic
cells.

Shipony Z(1), Mukamel Z(1), Cohen NM(2), Landan G(2), Chomsky E(3), Zeliger
SR(4), Fried YC(5), Ainbinder E(5), Friedman N(4), Tanay A(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, and Department of
Biological Regulation, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel [2].
(2)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, and Department of
Biological Regulation, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(3)1] Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, and Department of
Biological Regulation, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel [2]
Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel.
(4)Department of Immunology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel.
(5)Department of Biological Services, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.

Stable maintenance of gene regulatory programs is essential for normal function
in multicellular organisms. Epigenetic mechanisms, and DNA methylation in
particular, are hypothesized to facilitate such maintenance by creating cellular 
memory that can be written during embryonic development and then guide
cell-type-specific gene expression. Here we develop new methods for quantitative 
inference of DNA methylation turnover rates, and show that human embryonic stem
cells preserve their epigenetic state by balancing antagonistic processes that
add and remove methylation marks rather than by copying epigenetic information
from mother to daughter cells. In contrast, somatic cells transmit considerable
epigenetic information to progenies. Paradoxically, the persistence of the
somatic epigenome makes it more vulnerable to noise, since random epimutations
can accumulate to massively perturb the epigenomic ground state. The rate of
epigenetic perturbation depends on the genomic context, and, in particular, DNA
methylation loss is coupled to late DNA replication dynamics. Epigenetic
perturbation is not observed in the pluripotent state, because the rapid
turnover-based equilibrium continuously reinforces the canonical state. This
dynamic epigenetic equilibrium also explains how the epigenome can be
reprogrammed quickly and to near perfection after induced pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13458 
PMID: 25043040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):453-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13668.

Comparative analysis of regulatory information and circuits across distant
species.

Boyle AP(1), Araya CL(1), Brdlik C(2), Cayting P(2), Cheng C(3), Cheng Y(2),
Gardner K(4), Hillier LW(5), Janette J(4), Jiang L(2), Kasper D(4), Kawli T(2),
Kheradpour P(6), Kundaje A(7), Li JJ(8), Ma L(5), Niu W(4), Rehm EJ(9), Rozowsky 
J(3), Slattery M(9), Spokony R(9), Terrell R(5), Vafeados D(5), Wang D(3),
Weisdepp P(5), Wu YC(6), Xie D(2), Yan KK(3), Feingold EA(10), Good PJ(10), Pazin
MJ(10), Huang H(11), Bickel PJ(11), Brenner SE(12), Reinke V(4), Waterston RH(5),
Gerstein M(3), White KP(9), Kellis M(6), Snyder M(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA [2].
(2)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(3)Program of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(5)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(6)Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(7)1] Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA [2] Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(8)1] Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] Department of Statistics, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.
(9)Institute for Genomics and Systems Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Ilinois 60637, USA.
(10)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland, 20892, USA.
(11)Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.
(12)1] Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Plant and Microbial Biology,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):374-5.

Despite the large evolutionary distances between metazoan species, they can show 
remarkable commonalities in their biology, and this has helped to establish fly
and worm as model organisms for human biology. Although studies of individual
elements and factors have explored similarities in gene regulation, a large-scale
comparative analysis of basic principles of transcriptional regulatory features
is lacking. Here we map the genome-wide binding locations of 165 human, 93 worm
and 52 fly transcription regulatory factors, generating a total of 1,019 data
sets from diverse cell types, developmental stages, or conditions in the three
species, of which 498 (48.9%) are presented here for the first time. We find that
structural properties of regulatory networks are remarkably conserved and that
orthologous regulatory factor families recognize similar binding motifs in vivo
and show some similar co-associations. Our results suggest that gene-regulatory
properties previously observed for individual factors are general principles of
metazoan regulation that are remarkably well-preserved despite extensive
functional divergence of individual network connections. The comparative maps of 
regulatory circuitry provided here will drive an improved understanding of the
regulatory underpinnings of model organism biology and how these relate to human 
biology, development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13668 
PMCID: PMC4336544
PMID: 25164757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):449-52. doi: 10.1038/nature13415.

Comparative analysis of metazoan chromatin organization.

Ho JW(1), Jung YL(2), Liu T(3), Alver BH(4), Lee S(4), Ikegami K(5), Sohn KA(6), 
Minoda A(7), Tolstorukov MY(8), Appert A(9), Parker SC(10), Gu T(11), Kundaje
A(12), Riddle NC(13), Bishop E(14), Egelhofer TA(15), Hu SS(16), Alekseyenko
AA(17), Rechtsteiner A(15), Asker D(18), Belsky JA(19), Bowman SK(20), Chen
QB(21), Chen RA(9), Day DS(22), Dong Y(9), Dose AC(23), Duan X(16), Epstein
CB(24), Ercan S(25), Feingold EA(26), Ferrari F(4), Garrigues JM(15), Gehlenborg 
N(27), Good PJ(26), Haseley P(28), He D(29), Herrmann M(9), Hoffman MM(30),
Jeffers TE(5), Kharchenko PV(4), Kolasinska-Zwierz P(9), Kotwaliwale CV(31),
Kumar N(32), Langley SA(33), Larschan EN(34), Latorre I(9), Libbrecht MW(35), Lin
X(16), Park R(14), Pazin MJ(26), Pham HN(36), Plachetka A(17), Qin B(16),
Schwartz YB(37), Shoresh N(24), Stempor P(9), Vielle A(9), Wang C(16), Whittle
CM(31), Xue H(28), Kingston RE(20), Kim JH(38), Bernstein BE(39), Dernburg
AF(36), Pirrotta V(40), Kuroda MI(17), Noble WS(41), Tullius TD(42), Kellis
M(32), MacAlpine DM(19), Strome S(15), Elgin SC(11), Liu XS(43), Lieb JD(5),
Ahringer J(9), Karpen GH(33), Park PJ(44).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [3] [4] Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute and The University of 
New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia (J.W.K.H.); Department
of Biochemistry, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 14203, USA (T.L.);
Department of Molecular Biology and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative
Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA (K.I., T.E.J.); 
Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 06037, USA
(J.D.L.); Division of Genomic Technologies, Center for Life Science Technologies,
RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan (A.M.); Department of Genetics, Department of
Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA (A.K.);
Department of Biology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 35294, USA (N.C.R.).
(2)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [3].
(3)1] Center for Functional Cancer Epigenetics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Biostatistics and
Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard School of Public 
Health, 450 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [3] [4] Victor
Chang Cardiac Research Institute and The University of New South Wales, Sydney,
New South Wales 2052, Australia (J.W.K.H.); Department of Biochemistry,
University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 14203, USA (T.L.); Department of
Molecular Biology and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton 
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA (K.I., T.E.J.); Department of Human 
Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 06037, USA (J.D.L.); Division 
of Genomic Technologies, Center for Life Science Technologies, RIKEN, Yokohama
230-0045, Japan (A.M.); Department of Genetics, Department of Computer Science,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA (A.K.); Department of
Biology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA 
(N.C.R.).
(4)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Department of Biology and Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA [2]
Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute and The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia (J.W.K.H.); Department of Biochemistry,
University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 14203, USA (T.L.); Department of
Molecular Biology and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton 
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA (K.I., T.E.J.); Department of Human 
Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 06037, USA (J.D.L.); Division 
of Genomic Technologies, Center for Life Science Technologies, RIKEN, Yokohama
230-0045, Japan (A.M.); Department of Genetics, Department of Computer Science,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA (A.K.); Department of
Biology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA 
(N.C.R.).
(6)1] Department of Information and Computer Engineering, Ajou University, Suwon 
443-749, Korea [2] Systems Biomedical Informatics Research Center, College of
Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul 110-799, Korea.
(7)1] Department of Genome Dynamics, Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley
National Lab, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Molecular and
Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA
[3] Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute and The University of New South
Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia (J.W.K.H.); Department of
Biochemistry, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 14203, USA (T.L.);
Department of Molecular Biology and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative
Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA (K.I., T.E.J.); 
Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 06037, USA
(J.D.L.); Division of Genomic Technologies, Center for Life Science Technologies,
RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan (A.M.); Department of Genetics, Department of
Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA (A.K.);
Department of Biology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama 35294, USA (N.C.R.).
(8)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [3] Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(9)The Gurdon Institute and Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge,
Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(10)1] National Institute of General Medical Sciences, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2] National Human Genome Research
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(11)Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis,
Missouri 63130, USA.
(12)1] Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Broad Institute,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA [3] Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute
and The University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia
(J.W.K.H.); Department of Biochemistry, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 
14203, USA (T.L.); Department of Molecular Biology and Lewis Sigler Institute for
Integrative Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA
(K.I., T.E.J.); Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 06037, USA (J.D.L.); Division of Genomic Technologies, Center for Life
Science Technologies, RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan (A.M.); Department of
Genetics, Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA (A.K.); Department of Biology, The University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA (N.C.R.).
(13)1] Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis,
Missouri 63130, USA [2] Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute and The
University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia
(J.W.K.H.); Department of Biochemistry, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York 
14203, USA (T.L.); Department of Molecular Biology and Lewis Sigler Institute for
Integrative Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA
(K.I., T.E.J.); Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 06037, USA (J.D.L.); Division of Genomic Technologies, Center for Life
Science Technologies, RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan (A.M.); Department of
Genetics, Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA (A.K.); Department of Biology, The University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA (N.C.R.).
(14)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Program in Bioinformatics, Boston University,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(15)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(16)Department of Bioinformatics, School of Life Science and Technology, Tongji
University, Shanghai 200092, China.
(17)1] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department
of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(18)1] Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers University,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA [2] Food Science and Technology Department,
Faculty of Agriculture, Alexandria University, 21545 El-Shatby, Alexandria,
Egypt.
(19)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(20)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(21)Department of Biology and Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(22)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Harvard/MIT Division of Health Sciences and
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(23)Department of Anatomy Physiology and Cell Biology, University of California
Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(24)Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA.
(25)1] Department of Biology and Carolina Center for Genome Sciences, University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA [2]
Department of Biology, Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York
University, New York, New York 10003, USA.
(26)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(27)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141,
USA.
(28)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(29)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(30)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario M6G 1L7, Canada.
(31)1] Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.
(32)1] Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Broad Institute,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA.
(33)1] Department of Genome Dynamics, Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley
National Lab, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Molecular and
Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(34)Department of Molecular Biology, Cellular Biology and Biochemistry, Brown
University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA.
(35)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(36)1] Department of Genome Dynamics, Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley
National Lab, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Molecular and
Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA
[3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.
(37)1] Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers University,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA [2] Department of Molecular Biology, Umea
University, 901 87 Umea, Sweden.
(38)1] Systems Biomedical Informatics Research Center, College of Medicine, Seoul
National University, Seoul 110-799, Korea [2] Seoul National University
Biomedical Informatics, Division of Biomedical Informatics, College of Medicine, 
Seoul National University, Seoul 110-799, Korea.
(39)1] Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA [2] Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA [3] Department of Pathology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, USA.
(40)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers University,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.
(41)1] Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [2] Department of Genome Sciences, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(42)1] Program in Bioinformatics, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215,
USA [2] Department of Chemistry, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, 
USA.
(43)1] Center for Functional Cancer Epigenetics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Biostatistics and
Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard School of Public 
Health, 450 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [3] Broad
Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA.
(44)1] Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [3] Informatics Program, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):374-5.

Genome function is dynamically regulated in part by chromatin, which consists of 
the histones, non-histone proteins and RNA molecules that package DNA. Studies in
Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster have contributed substantially
to our understanding of molecular mechanisms of genome function in humans, and
have revealed conservation of chromatin components and mechanisms. Nevertheless, 
the three organisms have markedly different genome sizes, chromosome architecture
and gene organization. On human and fly chromosomes, for example, pericentric
heterochromatin flanks single centromeres, whereas worm chromosomes have
dispersed heterochromatin-like regions enriched in the distal chromosomal 'arms',
and centromeres distributed along their lengths. To systematically investigate
chromatin organization and associated gene regulation across species, we
generated and analysed a large collection of genome-wide chromatin data sets from
cell lines and developmental stages in worm, fly and human. Here we present over 
800 new data sets from our ENCODE and modENCODE consortia, bringing the total to 
over 1,400. Comparison of combinatorial patterns of histone modifications,
nuclear lamina-associated domains, organization of large-scale topological
domains, chromatin environment at promoters and enhancers, nucleosome
positioning, and DNA replication patterns reveals many conserved features of
chromatin organization among the three organisms. We also find notable
differences in the composition and locations of repressive chromatin. These data 
sets and analyses provide a rich resource for comparative and species-specific
investigations of chromatin composition, organization and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13415 
PMCID: PMC4227084
PMID: 25164756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):445-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13424.

Comparative analysis of the transcriptome across distant species.

Gerstein MB(1), Rozowsky J(2), Yan KK(2), Wang D(2), Cheng C(3), Brown JB(4),
Davis CA(5), Hillier L(6), Sisu C(2), Li JJ(7), Pei B(2), Harmanci AO(2), Duff
MO(8), Djebali S(9), Alexander RP(10), Alver BH(11), Auerbach R(10), Bell K(12), 
Bickel PJ(13), Boeck ME(14), Boley NP(15), Booth BW(16), Cherbas L(17), Cherbas
P(17), Di C(18), Dobin A(12), Drenkow J(12), Ewing B(14), Fang G(10), Fastuca
M(12), Feingold EA(19), Frankish A(20), Gao G(18), Good PJ(19), Guigó R(21),
Hammonds A(16), Harrow J(20), Hoskins RA(16), Howald C(22), Hu L(18), Huang
H(13), Hubbard TJ(23), Huynh C(14), Jha S(12), Kasper D(24), Kato M(25), Kaufman 
TC(26), Kitchen RR(10), Ladewig E(27), Lagarde J(21), Lai E(27), Leng J(10), Lu
Z(18), MacCoss M(14), May G(28), McWhirter R(29), Merrihew G(14), Miller DM(29), 
Mortazavi A(30), Murad R(30), Oliver B(31), Olson S(32), Park PJ(11), Pazin
MJ(19), Perrimon N(33), Pervouchine D(21), Reinke V(24), Reymond A(34), Robinson 
G(13), Samsonova A(33), Saunders GI(35), Schlesinger F(12), Sethi A(10), Slack
FJ(25), Spencer WC(29), Stoiber MH(15), Strasbourger P(14), Tanzer A(36),
Thompson OA(14), Wan KH(16), Wang G(24), Wang H(12), Watkins KL(29), Wen J(27),
Wen K(18), Xue C(12), Yang L(37), Yip K(38), Zaleski C(12), Zhang Y(10), Zheng
H(10), Brenner SE(39), Graveley BR(8), Celniker SE(40), Gingeras TR(5), Waterston
R(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University, Bass 
432, 266 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Department of
Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, Bass 432, 266 Whitney
Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [3] Department of Computer Science,
Yale University, 51 Prospect Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA [4] [5].
(2)1] Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University, Bass 
432, 266 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Department of
Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, Bass 432, 266 Whitney
Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [3].
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover,
New Hampshire 03755, USA [2] Institute for Quantitative Biomedical Sciences,
Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, New
Hampshire 03766, USA [3].
(4)1] Department of Genome Dynamics, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Statistics, University of
California, Berkeley, 367 Evans Hall, Berkeley, California 94720-3860, USA [3].
(5)1] Functional Genomics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New
York 11724, USA [2].
(6)1] Department of Genome Sciences and University of Washington School of
Medicine, William H. Foege Building S350D, 1705 Northeast Pacific Street, Box
355065 Seattle, Washington 98195-5065, USA [2].
(7)1] Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, 367 Evans
Hall, Berkeley, California 94720-3860, USA [2] Department of Statistics,
University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095-1554, USA [3] Department 
of Human Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095-7088, 
USA [4].
(8)1] Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Institute for Systems
Genomics, University of Connecticut Health Center, 400 Farmington Avenue,
Farmington, Connecticut 06030, USA [2].
(9)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation, Doctor Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain [2] Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de la Salut,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 08003 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain [3].
(10)1] Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University, Bass
432, 266 Whitney Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Department of
Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, Bass 432, 266 Whitney
Avenue, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(11)Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, 10 Shattuck
Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(12)Functional Genomics, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New
York 11724, USA.
(13)Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, 367 Evans Hall,
Berkeley, California 94720-3860, USA.
(14)Department of Genome Sciences and University of Washington School of
Medicine, William H. Foege Building S350D, 1705 Northeast Pacific Street, Box
355065 Seattle, Washington 98195-5065, USA.
(15)1] Department of Genome Dynamics, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Biostatistics, University of
California, Berkeley, 367 Evans Hall, Berkeley, California 94720-3860, USA.
(16)Department of Genome Dynamics, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(17)1] Department of Biology, Indiana University, 1001 East 3rd Street,
Bloomington, Indiana 47405-7005, USA [2] Center for Genomics and Bioinformatics, 
Indiana University, 1001 East 3rd Street, Bloomington, Indiana 47405-7005, USA.
(18)MOE Key Lab of Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China.
(19)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, 5635
Fishers Lane, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-9307, USA.
(20)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.
(21)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation, Doctor Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain [2] Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de la Salut,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra, 08003 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(22)1] Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, Genopode
building, Lausanne 1015, Switzerland [2] Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics,
Genopode building, Lausanne 1015, Switzerland.
(23)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK [2] Medical and Molecular Genetics, King's College London,
London WC2R 2LS, UK.
(24)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520-8005, USA.
(25)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, PO Box 208103,
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(26)Department of Biology, Indiana University, 1001 East 3rd Street, Bloomington,
Indiana 47405-7005, USA.
(27)Sloan-Kettering Institute, 1275 York Avenue, Box 252, New York, New York
10065, USA.
(28)1] Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Institute for Systems
Genomics, University of Connecticut Health Center, 400 Farmington Avenue,
Farmington, Connecticut 06030, USA [2] Department of Biological Sciences,
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 USA.
(29)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Vanderbilt University, 465 21st
Avenue South, Nashville, Tennessee 37232-8240, USA.
(30)1] Developmental and Cell Biology, University of California, Irvine,
California 92697, USA [2] Center for Complex Biological Systems, University of
California, Irvine, California 92697, USA.
(31)Section of Developmental Genomics, Laboratory of Cellular and Developmental
Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(32)Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Institute for Systems
Genomics, University of Connecticut Health Center, 400 Farmington Avenue,
Farmington, Connecticut 06030, USA.
(33)1] Department of Genetics and Drosophila RNAi Screening Center, Harvard
Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2]
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, 77 Avenue Louis Pasteur,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(34)Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, Genopode building,
Lausanne 1015, Switzerland.
(35)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK [2] European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust
Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10 1SD, UK.
(36)1] Bioinformatics and Genomics Programme, Center for Genomic Regulation,
Universitat Pompeu Fabra (CRG-UPF), 08003 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain [2]
Institute for Theoretical Chemistry, Theoretical Biochemistry Group (TBI),
University of Vienna, Währingerstrasse 17/3/303, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
(37)1] Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Institute for Systems
Genomics, University of Connecticut Health Center, 400 Farmington Avenue,
Farmington, Connecticut 06030, USA [2] Key Laboratory of Computational Biology,
CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biology, Shanghai Institutes for
Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.
(38)1] Hong Kong Bioinformatics Centre, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong [2] 5 CUHK-BGI Innovation Institute of
Trans-omics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong
Kong.
(39)1] Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Department of Plant and Microbial Biology,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3].
(40)1] Department of Genome Dynamics, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):374-5.

The transcriptome is the readout of the genome. Identifying common features in it
across distant species can reveal fundamental principles. To this end, the ENCODE
and modENCODE consortia have generated large amounts of matched RNA-sequencing
data for human, worm and fly. Uniform processing and comprehensive annotation of 
these data allow comparison across metazoan phyla, extending beyond earlier
within-phylum transcriptome comparisons and revealing ancient, conserved
features. Specifically, we discover co-expression modules shared across animals, 
many of which are enriched in developmental genes. Moreover, we use expression
patterns to align the stages in worm and fly development and find a novel pairing
between worm embryo and fly pupae, in addition to the embryo-to-embryo and
larvae-to-larvae pairings. Furthermore, we find that the extent of non-canonical,
non-coding transcription is similar in each organism, per base pair. Finally, we 
find in all three organisms that the gene-expression levels, both coding and
non-coding, can be quantitatively predicted from chromatin features at the
promoter using a 'universal model' based on a single set of organism-independent 
parameters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13424 
PMCID: PMC4155737
PMID: 25164755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):423-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13665.

Neural constraints on learning.

Sadtler PT(1), Quick KM(1), Golub MD(2), Chase SM(3), Ryu SI(4), Tyler-Kabara
EC(5), Yu BM(6), Batista AP(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15261, USA [2] Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15213, USA [3] Systems Neuroscience Institute, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania 15261, USA.
(2)1] Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213,
USA [2] Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.
(3)1] Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213,
USA [2] Department of Biomedical Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.
(4)1] Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA [2] Department of Neurosurgery, Palo Alto Medical
Foundation, Palo Alto, California 94301, USA.
(5)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15261, USA [2] Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA [3] Department of
Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213,
USA.
(6)1] Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213,
USA [2] Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA [3] Department of Biomedical
Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA [4].
(7)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15261, USA [2] Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15213, USA [3] Systems Neuroscience Institute, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania 15261, USA [4].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Oct;15(10):631.
    J Neurophysiol. 2015 Nov;114(5):2555-7.

Learning, whether motor, sensory or cognitive, requires networks of neurons to
generate new activity patterns. As some behaviours are easier to learn than
others, we asked if some neural activity patterns are easier to generate than
others. Here we investigate whether an existing network constrains the patterns
that a subset of its neurons is capable of exhibiting, and if so, what principles
define this constraint. We employed a closed-loop intracortical brain-computer
interface learning paradigm in which Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) controlled 
a computer cursor by modulating neural activity patterns in the primary motor
cortex. Using the brain-computer interface paradigm, we could specify and alter
how neural activity mapped to cursor velocity. At the start of each session, we
observed the characteristic activity patterns of the recorded neural population. 
The activity of a neural population can be represented in a high-dimensional
space (termed the neural space), wherein each dimension corresponds to the
activity of one neuron. These characteristic activity patterns comprise a
low-dimensional subspace (termed the intrinsic manifold) within the neural space.
The intrinsic manifold presumably reflects constraints imposed by the underlying 
neural circuitry. Here we show that the animals could readily learn to
proficiently control the cursor using neural activity patterns that were within
the intrinsic manifold. However, animals were less able to learn to proficiently 
control the cursor using activity patterns that were outside of the intrinsic
manifold. These results suggest that the existing structure of a network can
shape learning. On a timescale of hours, it seems to be difficult to learn to
generate neural activity patterns that are not consistent with the existing
network structure. These findings offer a network-level explanation for the
observation that we are more readily able to learn new skills when they are
related to the skills that we already possess.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13665 
PMCID: PMC4393644
PMID: 25164754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):416-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13625.

Contrasting responses of mean and extreme snowfall to climate change.

O'Gorman PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Snowfall is an important element of the climate system, and one that is expected 
to change in a warming climate. Both mean snowfall and the intensity distribution
of snowfall are important, with heavy snowfall events having particularly large
economic and human impacts. Simulations with climate models indicate that annual 
mean snowfall declines with warming in most regions but increases in regions with
very low surface temperatures. The response of heavy snowfall events to a
changing climate, however, is unclear. Here I show that in simulations with
climate models under a scenario of high emissions of greenhouse gases, by the
late twenty-first century there are smaller fractional changes in the intensities
of daily snowfall extremes than in mean snowfall over many Northern Hemisphere
land regions. For example, for monthly climatological temperatures just below
freezing and surface elevations below 1,000 metres, the 99.99th percentile of
daily snowfall decreases by 8% in the multimodel median, compared to a 65%
reduction in mean snowfall. Both mean and extreme snowfall must decrease for a
sufficiently large warming, but the climatological temperature above which
snowfall extremes decrease with warming in the simulations is as high as -9 °C,
compared to -14 °C for mean snowfall. These results are supported by a physically
based theory that is consistent with the observed rain-snow transition. According
to the theory, snowfall extremes occur near an optimal temperature that is
insensitive to climate warming, and this results in smaller fractional changes
for higher percentiles of daily snowfall. The simulated changes in snowfall that 
I find would influence surface snow and its hazards; these changes also suggest
that it may be difficult to detect a regional climate-change signal in snowfall
extremes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13625 
PMID: 25164753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):413-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13624.

Carbon-carbon bond cleavage and rearrangement of benzene by a trinuclear titanium
hydride.

Hu S(1), Shima T(2), Hou Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Catalysis Research Group, RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource
Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)1] Advanced Catalysis Research Group, RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource
Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan [2] Organometallic Chemistry
Laboratory, RIKEN, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

The cleavage of carbon-carbon (C-C) bonds by transition metals is of great
interest, especially as this transformation can be used to produce fuels and
other industrially important chemicals from natural resources such as petroleum
and biomass. Carbon-carbon bonds are quite stable and are consequently unreactive
under many reaction conditions. In the industrial naphtha hydrocracking process, 
the aromatic carbon skeleton of benzene can be transformed to methylcyclopentane 
and acyclic saturated hydrocarbons through C-C bond cleavage and rearrangement on
the surfaces of solid catalysts. However, these chemical transformations usually 
require high temperatures and are fairly non-selective. Microorganisms can
degrade aromatic compounds under ambient conditions, but the mechanistic details 
are not known and are difficult to mimic. Several transition metal complexes have
been reported to cleave C-C bonds in a selective fashion in special
circumstances, such as relief of ring strain, formation of an aromatic system,
chelation-assisted cyclometallation and β-carbon elimination. However, the
cleavage of benzene by a transition metal complex has not been reported. Here we 
report the C-C bond cleavage and rearrangement of benzene by a trinuclear
titanium polyhydride complex. The benzene ring is transformed sequentially to a
methylcyclopentenyl and a 2-methylpentenyl species through the cleavage of the
aromatic carbon skeleton at the multi-titanium sites. Our results suggest that
multinuclear titanium hydrides could serve as a unique platform for the
activation of aromatic molecules, and may facilitate the design of new catalysts 
for the transformation of inactive aromatics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13624 
PMID: 25164752 


385. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):409-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13586.

Quantum imaging with undetected photons.

Lemos GB(1), Borish V(2), Cole GD(3), Ramelow S(4), Lapkiewicz R(2), Zeilinger
A(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Austrian Academy of
Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, Vienna A-1090, Austria [2] Vienna Center for Quantum 
Science and Technology (VCQ), Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna, A-1090
Vienna, Austria.
(2)1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Austrian Academy of
Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, Vienna A-1090, Austria [2] Quantum Optics, Quantum
Nanophysics, Quantum Information, University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, Vienna 
A-1090, Austria.
(3)1] Vienna Center for Quantum Science and Technology (VCQ), Faculty of Physics,
University of Vienna, A-1090 Vienna, Austria [2] Quantum Optics, Quantum
Nanophysics, Quantum Information, University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, Vienna 
A-1090, Austria.
(4)1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Austrian Academy of
Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, Vienna A-1090, Austria [2] Quantum Optics, Quantum
Nanophysics, Quantum Information, University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, Vienna 
A-1090, Austria [3] Cornell University, 159 Clark Hall, 142 Science Drive,
Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(5)1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information, Austrian Academy of
Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, Vienna A-1090, Austria [2] Vienna Center for Quantum 
Science and Technology (VCQ), Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna, A-1090
Vienna, Austria [3] Quantum Optics, Quantum Nanophysics, Quantum Information,
University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, Vienna A-1090, Austria.

Information is central to quantum mechanics. In particular, quantum interference 
occurs only if there exists no information to distinguish between the superposed 
states. The mere possibility of obtaining information that could distinguish
between overlapping states inhibits quantum interference. Here we introduce and
experimentally demonstrate a quantum imaging concept based on induced coherence
without induced emission. Our experiment uses two separate down-conversion
nonlinear crystals (numbered NL1 and NL2), each illuminated by the same pump
laser, creating one pair of photons (denoted idler and signal). If the photon
pair is created in NL1, one photon (the idler) passes through the object to be
imaged and is overlapped with the idler amplitude created in NL2, its source thus
being undefined. Interference of the signal amplitudes coming from the two
crystals then reveals the image of the object. The photons that pass through the 
imaged object (idler photons from NL1) are never detected, while we obtain images
exclusively with the signal photons (from NL1 and NL2), which do not interact
with the object. Our experiment is fundamentally different from previous quantum 
imaging techniques, such as interaction-free imaging or ghost imaging, because
now the photons used to illuminate the object do not have to be detected at all
and no coincidence detection is necessary. This enables the probe wavelength to
be chosen in a range for which suitable detectors are not available. To
illustrate this, we show images of objects that are either opaque or invisible to
the detected photons. Our experiment is a prototype in quantum
information--knowledge can be extracted by, and about, a photon that is never
detected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13586 
PMID: 25164751 


386. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):406-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13672.

Cobalt-56 γ-ray emission lines from the type Ia supernova 2014J.

Churazov E(1), Sunyaev R(1), Isern J(2), Knödlseder J(3), Jean P(3), Lebrun F(4),
Chugai N(5), Grebenev S(6), Bravo E(7), Sazonov S(8), Renaud M(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Space Research Institute (IKI), Profsouznaya 84/32, Moscow 117997, Russia
[2] Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 1, 85741
Garching, Germany.
(2)Institute for Space Sciences (ICE-CSIC/IEEC), 08193 Bellaterra, Spain.
(3)1] Université de Toulouse, UPS-OMP, IRAP, Toulouse, France [2] CNRS, IRAP, 9
Avenue colonel Roche, BP 44346, F-31028 Toulouse Cedex 4, France.
(4)APC, Université Paris Diderot, CNRS/IN2P3, CEA/Irfu, Observatoire de Paris,
Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75205 Paris Cedex 13, France.
(5)Institute of Astronomy of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 48 Pyatnitskaya
Street, 119017 Moscow, Russia.
(6)Space Research Institute (IKI), Profsouznaya 84/32, Moscow 117997, Russia.
(7)ETSAV, Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya, Carrer Pere Serra 1-15, 08173
Sant Cugat del Valles, Spain.
(8)1] Space Research Institute (IKI), Profsouznaya 84/32, Moscow 117997, Russia
[2] Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Institutsky pereulok 9, 141700
Dolgoprudny, Russia.
(9)LUPM, Université Montpellier 2, CNRS/IN2P3, CC 72, Place Eugène Bataillon,
F-34095 Montpellier Cedex 5, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):375-6.

A type Ia supernova is thought to be a thermonuclear explosion of either a single
carbon-oxygen white dwarf or a pair of merging white dwarfs. The explosion fuses 
a large amount of radioactive (56)Ni (refs 1-3). After the explosion, the decay
chain from (56)Ni to (56)Co to (56)Fe generates γ-ray photons, which are
reprocessed in the expanding ejecta and give rise to powerful optical emission.
Here we report the detection of (56)Co lines at energies of 847 and
1,238 kiloelectronvolts and a γ-ray continuum in the 200-400 kiloelectronvolt
band from the type Ia supernova 2014J in the nearby galaxy M82. The line fluxes
suggest that about 0.6 ± 0.1 solar masses of radioactive (56)Ni were synthesized 
during the explosion. The line broadening gives a characteristic mass-weighted
ejecta expansion velocity of 10,000 ± 3,000 kilometres per second. The observed
γ-ray properties are in broad agreement with the canonical model of an explosion 
of a white dwarf just massive enough to be unstable to gravitational collapse,
but do not exclude merger scenarios that fuse comparable amounts of (56)Ni.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13672 
PMID: 25164750 


387. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):400-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13497.

Regulatory analysis of the C. elegans genome with spatiotemporal resolution.

Araya CL(1), Kawli T(1), Kundaje A(2), Jiang L(1), Wu B(1), Vafeados D(3),
Terrell R(3), Weissdepp P(3), Gevirtzman L(3), Mace D(3), Niu W(4), Boyle AP(1), 
Xie D(1), Ma L(5), Murray JI(6), Reinke V(4), Waterston RH(3), Snyder M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(2)Department of Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(3)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(5)Institute for Genomics and Systems Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA.
(6)Department of Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Dec 3;528(7580):152.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):374-5.

Discovering the structure and dynamics of transcriptional regulatory events in
the genome with cellular and temporal resolution is crucial to understanding the 
regulatory underpinnings of development and disease. We determined the genomic
distribution of binding sites for 92 transcription factors and regulatory
proteins across multiple stages of Caenorhabditis elegans development by
performing 241 ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing)
experiments. Integration of regulatory binding and cellular-resolution expression
data produced a spatiotemporally resolved metazoan transcription factor binding
map. Using this map, we explore developmental regulatory circuits that encode
combinatorial logic at the levels of co-binding and co-expression of
transcription factors, characterizing the genomic coverage and clustering of
regulatory binding, the binding preferences of, and biological processes
regulated by, transcription factors, the global transcription factor
co-associations and genomic subdomains that suggest shared patterns of
regulation, and identifying key transcription factors and transcription factor
co-associations for fate specification of individual lineages and cell types.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13497 
PMCID: PMC4530805
PMID: 25164749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):383-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13702.

Neutrinos from the primary proton-proton fusion process in the Sun.

Borexino Collaboration.

Collaborators: Bellini G, Benziger J, Bick D, Bonfini G, Bravo D, Caccianiga B,
Cadonati L, Calaprice F, Caminata A, Cavalcante P, Chavarria A, Chepurnov A,
D'Angelo D, Davini S, Derbin A, Empl A, Etenko A, Fomenko K, Franco D, Gabriele
F, Galbiati C, Gazzana S, Ghiano C, Giammarchi M, Göger-Neff M, Goretti A, Gromov
M, Hagner C, Hungerford E, Ianni A, Ianni A, Kobychev V, Korablev D, Korga G,
Kryn D, Laubenstein M, Lehnert B, Lewke T, Litvinovich E, Lombardi F, Lombardi P,
Ludhova L, Lukyanchenko G, Machulin I, Manecki S, Maneschg W, Marcocci S, Meindl 
Q, Meroni E, Meyer M, Miramonti L, Misiaszek M, Montuschi M, Mosteiro P, Muratova
V, Oberauer L, Obolensky M, Ortica F, Otis K, Pallavicini M, Papp L, Perasso L,
Pocar A, Ranucci G, Razeto A, Re A, Romani A, Rossi N, Saldanha R, Salvo C,
Schönert S, Simgen H, Skorokhvatov M, Smirnov O, Sotnikov A, Sukhotin S, Suvorov 
Y, Tartaglia R, Testera G, Vignaud D, Vogelaar RB, von Feilitzsch F, Wang H,
Winter J, Wojcik M, Wright A, Wurm M, Zaimidoroga O, Zavatarelli S, Zuber K,
Zuzel G.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):378-80.

In the core of the Sun, energy is released through sequences of nuclear reactions
that convert hydrogen into helium. The primary reaction is thought to be the
fusion of two protons with the emission of a low-energy neutrino. These so-called
pp neutrinos constitute nearly the entirety of the solar neutrino flux, vastly
outnumbering those emitted in the reactions that follow. Although solar neutrinos
from secondary processes have been observed, proving the nuclear origin of the
Sun's energy and contributing to the discovery of neutrino oscillations, those
from proton-proton fusion have hitherto eluded direct detection. Here we report
spectral observations of pp neutrinos, demonstrating that about 99 per cent of
the power of the Sun, 3.84 × 10(33) ergs per second, is generated by the
proton-proton fusion process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13702 
PMID: 25164748 


389. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):387-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13684. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

AhR sensing of bacterial pigments regulates antibacterial defence.

Moura-Alves P(1), Faé K(1), Houthuys E(1), Dorhoi A(1), Kreuchwig A(2), Furkert
J(2), Barison N(3), Diehl A(2), Munder A(4), Constant P(5), Skrahina T(6),
Guhlich-Bornhof U(6), Klemm M(6), Koehler AB(6), Bandermann S(6), Goosmann C(7), 
Mollenkopf HJ(8), Hurwitz R(9), Brinkmann V(7), Fillatreau S(10), Daffe M(5),
Tümmler B(4), Kolbe M(3), Oschkinat H(2), Krause G(2), Kaufmann SH(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, Department of Immunology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany [2].
(2)Leibniz Institute for Molecular Pharmacology (FMP), Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 
13125 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, Structural Systems Biology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Clinical Research Group, Clinic for Pediatric Pneumology, Allergology and
Neonatology, OE 6710, Hannover Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Str. 1, 30625
Hannover, Germany.
(5)Institute of Pharmacology and Structural Biology (IPBS), CNRS and University
of Toulouse (Toulouse III), 205 Route de Narbonne, 31077, Toulouse cedex 04,
Toulouse, France.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology, Department of Immunology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(7)Microscopy Core Facility, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology,
Department of Immunology, Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(8)Microarray Core Facility, Max Planck Institute for Infection Biology,
Department of Immunology, Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(9)Protein Purification Core Facility, Max Planck Institute for Infection
Biology, Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(10)German Rheumatism Research Centre Berlin (DRFZ), a Leibniz Institute,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):377-8.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a highly conserved ligand-dependent
transcription factor that senses environmental toxins and endogenous ligands,
thereby inducing detoxifying enzymes and modulating immune cell differentiation
and responses. We hypothesized that AhR evolved to sense not only environmental
pollutants but also microbial insults. We characterized bacterial pigmented
virulence factors, namely the phenazines from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the
naphthoquinone phthiocol from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, as ligands of AhR. Upon
ligand binding, AhR activation leads to virulence factor degradation and
regulated cytokine and chemokine production. The relevance of AhR to host defence
is underlined by heightened susceptibility of AhR-deficient mice to both P.
aeruginosa and M. tuberculosis. Thus, we demonstrate that AhR senses distinct
bacterial virulence factors and controls antibacterial responses, supporting a
previously unidentified role for AhR as an intracellular pattern recognition
receptor, and identify bacterial pigments as a new class of pathogen-associated
molecular patterns.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13684 
PMID: 25119038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):436-440. doi: 10.1038/nature13439. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

The long-term maintenance of a resistance polymorphism through diffuse
interactions.

Karasov TL(#)(1)(2), Kniskern JM(#)(1), Gao L(1), DeYoung BJ(3), Ding J(1),
Dubiella U(3), Lastra RO(1), Nallu S(1), Roux F(4)(5)(6), Innes RW(3), Barrett
LG(1), Hudson RR(1), Bergelson J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 
60637, USA.
(2)Committee on Genetics Genomics and Systems Biology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.
(4)INRA, Laboratoire des Interactions Plantes-Microorganismes (LIPM), UMR441,
F-31326 Castanet-Tolosan, France.
(5)CNRS, Laboratoire des Interactions Plantes-Microorganismes (LIPM), UMR2594,
F-31326 Castanet-Tolosan, France.
(6)Laboratoire Génétique et Evolution des Populations Végétales, UMR CNRS 8198,
Université des Sciences et Technologies de Lille - Lille 1, F-59655 Villeneuve
d'Ascq Cedex, France.
(#)Contributed equally

Plant resistance (R) genes are a crucial component in plant defence against
pathogens. Although R genes often fail to provide durable resistance in an
agricultural context, they frequently persist as long-lived balanced
polymorphisms in nature. Standard theory explains the maintenance of such
polymorphisms through a balance of the costs and benefits of resistance and
virulence in a tightly coevolving host-pathogen pair. However, many
plant-pathogen interactions lack such specificity. Whether, and how, balanced
polymorphisms are maintained in diffusely interacting species is unknown. Here we
identify a naturally interacting R gene and effector pair in Arabidopsis thaliana
and its facultative plant pathogen, Pseudomonas syringae. The protein encoded by 
the R gene RPS5 recognizes an AvrPphB homologue (AvrPphB2) and exhibits a
balanced polymorphism that has been maintained for over 2 million years (ref. 3).
Consistent with the presence of an ancient balanced polymorphism, the R gene
confers a benefit when plants are infected with P. syringae carrying avrPphB2 but
also incurs a large cost in the absence of infection. RPS5 alleles are maintained
at intermediate frequencies in populations globally, suggesting ubiquitous
selection for resistance. However, the presence of P. syringae carrying avrPphB
is probably insufficient to explain the RPS5 polymorphism. First, avrPphB
homologues occur at very low frequencies in P. syringae populations on A.
thaliana. Second, AvrPphB only rarely confers a virulence benefit to P. syringae 
on A. thaliana. Instead, we find evidence that selection for RPS5 involves
multiple non-homologous effectors and multiple pathogen species. These results
and an associated model suggest that the R gene polymorphism in A. thaliana may
not be maintained through a tightly coupled interaction involving a single
coevolved R gene and effector pair. More likely, the stable polymorphism is
maintained through complex and diffuse community-wide interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13439 
PMCID: PMC4696508
PMID: 25043057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):431-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13375. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

miR-34a blocks osteoporosis and bone metastasis by inhibiting osteoclastogenesis 
and Tgif2.

Krzeszinski JY(1), Wei W(1), Huynh H(1), Jin Z(1), Wang X(1), Chang TC(2), Xie
XJ(3), He L(4), Mangala LS(5), Lopez-Berestein G(6), Sood AK(7), Mendell JT(8),
Wan Y(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(3)1] Simmons Cancer Center, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] Department of Clinical Sciences, The University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(4)Division of Cellular and Developmental Biology, Molecular and Cell Biology
Department, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94705,
USA.
(5)1] Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2]
Center for RNA Interference and Non-coding RNA, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(6)1] Center for RNA Interference and Non-coding RNA, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Department of Experimental 
Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(7)1] Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2]
Center for RNA Interference and Non-coding RNA, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3] Department of Cancer
Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030,
USA.
(8)1] Department of Molecular Biology, The University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] Simmons Cancer Center, The
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(9)1] Department of Pharmacology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] Simmons Cancer Center, The University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2014 Aug;10(8):445.

Bone-resorbing osteoclasts significantly contribute to osteoporosis and bone
metastases of cancer. MicroRNAs play important roles in physiology and disease,
and present tremendous therapeutic potential. Nonetheless, how microRNAs regulate
skeletal biology is underexplored. Here we identify miR-34a as a novel and
critical suppressor of osteoclastogenesis, bone resorption and the bone
metastatic niche. miR-34a is downregulated during osteoclast differentiation.
Osteoclastic miR-34a-overexpressing transgenic mice exhibit lower bone resorption
and higher bone mass. Conversely, miR-34a knockout and heterozygous mice exhibit 
elevated bone resorption and reduced bone mass. Consequently, ovariectomy-induced
osteoporosis, as well as bone metastasis of breast and skin cancers, are
diminished in osteoclastic miR-34a transgenic mice, and can be effectively
attenuated by miR-34a nanoparticle treatment. Mechanistically, we identify
transforming growth factor-β-induced factor 2 (Tgif2) as an essential direct
miR-34a target that is pro-osteoclastogenic. Tgif2 deletion reduces bone
resorption and abolishes miR-34a regulation. Together, using mouse genetic,
pharmacological and disease models, we reveal miR-34a as a key osteoclast
suppressor and a potential therapeutic strategy to confer skeletal protection and
ameliorate bone metastasis of cancers.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13375 
PMCID: PMC4149606
PMID: 25043055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):427-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13427. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

Processing properties of ON and OFF pathways for Drosophila motion detection.

Behnia R(1), Clark DA(2), Carter AG(3), Clandinin TR(4), Desplan C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Developmental Genetics, Department of Biology, New York University,
New York, New York 10003-6688, USA.
(2)1] Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA [2] Department of Neurobiology,
Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(3)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.
(5)1] Center for Developmental Genetics, Department of Biology, New York
University, New York, New York 10003-6688, USA [2] Center for Genomics &Systems
Biology, New York University Abu Dhabi Institute, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates.

The algorithms and neural circuits that process spatio-temporal changes in
luminance to extract visual motion cues have been the focus of intense research. 
An influential model, the Hassenstein-Reichardt correlator, relies on
differential temporal filtering of two spatially separated input channels,
delaying one input signal with respect to the other. Motion in a particular
direction causes these delayed and non-delayed luminance signals to arrive
simultaneously at a subsequent processing step in the brain; these signals are
then nonlinearly amplified to produce a direction-selective response. Recent work
in Drosophila has identified two parallel pathways that selectively respond to
either moving light or dark edges. Each of these pathways requires two critical
processing steps to be applied to incoming signals: differential delay between
the spatial input channels, and distinct processing of brightness increment and
decrement signals. Here we demonstrate, using in vivo patch-clamp recordings,
that four medulla neurons implement these two processing steps. The neurons Mi1
and Tm3 respond selectively to brightness increments, with the response of Mi1
delayed relative to Tm3. Conversely, Tm1 and Tm2 respond selectively to
brightness decrements, with the response of Tm1 delayed compared with Tm2.
Remarkably, constraining Hassenstein-Reichardt correlator models using these
measurements produces outputs consistent with previously measured properties of
motion detectors, including temporal frequency tuning and specificity for light
versus dark edges. We propose that Mi1 and Tm3 perform critical processing of the
delayed and non-delayed input channels of the correlator responsible for the
detection of light edges, while Tm1 and Tm2 play analogous roles in the detection
of moving dark edges. Our data show that specific medulla neurons possess
response properties that allow them to implement the algorithmic steps that
precede the correlative operation in the Hassenstein-Reichardt correlator,
revealing elements of the long-sought neural substrates of motion detection in
the fly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13427 
PMCID: PMC4243710
PMID: 25043016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):441-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13471. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

The Get1/2 transmembrane complex is an endoplasmic-reticulum membrane protein
insertase.

Wang F(1), Chan C(1), Weir NR(1), Denic V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Northwest
Labs, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Hundreds of tail-anchored proteins, including soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive 
factor attachment receptors (SNAREs) involved in vesicle fusion, are inserted
post-translationally into the endoplasmic reticulum membrane by a dedicated
protein-targeting pathway. Before insertion, the carboxy-terminal transmembrane
domains of tail-anchored proteins are shielded in the cytosol by the conserved
targeting factor Get3 (in yeast; TRC40 in mammals). The Get3
endoplasmic-reticulum receptor comprises the cytosolic domains of the Get1/2
(WRB/CAML) transmembrane complex, which interact individually with the targeting 
factor to drive a conformational change that enables substrate release and, as a 
consequence, insertion. Because tail-anchored protein insertion is not associated
with significant translocation of hydrophilic protein sequences across the
membrane, it remains possible that Get1/2 cytosolic domains are sufficient to
place Get3 in proximity with the endoplasmic-reticulum lipid bilayer and permit
spontaneous insertion to occur. Here we use cell reporters and biochemical
reconstitution to define mutations in the Get1/2 transmembrane domain that
disrupt tail-anchored protein insertion without interfering with Get1/2 cytosolic
domain function. These mutations reveal a novel Get1/2 insertase function, in the
absence of which substrates stay bound to Get3 despite their proximity to the
lipid bilayer; as a consequence, the notion of spontaneous transmembrane domain
insertion is a non sequitur. Instead, the Get1/2 transmembrane domain helps to
release substrates from Get3 by capturing their transmembrane domains, and these 
transmembrane interactions define a bona fide pre-integrated intermediate along a
facilitated route for tail-anchor entry into the lipid bilayer. Our work sheds
light on the fundamental point of convergence between co-translational and
post-translational endoplasmic-reticulum membrane protein targeting and
insertion: a mechanism for reducing the ability of a targeting factor to shield
its substrates enables substrate handover to a transmembrane-domain-docking site 
embedded in the endoplasmic-reticulum membrane.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13471 
PMCID: PMC4342754
PMID: 25043001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):419-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13414. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

A primitive fish from the Cambrian of North America.

Morris SC(1), Caron JB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Cambridge, Downing Street,
Cambridge CB2 3EQ, UK.
(2)1] Department of Natural History (Palaeobiology), Royal Ontario Museum, 100
Queen's Park, Toronto, Ontario M5S 2C6, Canada [2] University of Toronto,
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, 25 Willcocks Street, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 3B2, Canada.

Knowledge of the early evolution of fish largely depends on soft-bodied material 
from the Lower (Series 2) Cambrian period of South China. Owing to the rarity of 
some of these forms and a general lack of comparative material from other
deposits, interpretations of various features remain controversial, as do their
wider relationships amongst post-Cambrian early un-skeletonized jawless
vertebrates. Here we redescribe Metaspriggina on the basis of new material from
the Burgess Shale and exceptionally preserved material collected near Marble
Canyon, British Columbia, and three other Cambrian Burgess Shale-type deposits
from Laurentia. This primitive fish displays unambiguous vertebrate features: a
notochord, a pair of prominent camera-type eyes, paired nasal sacs, possible
cranium and arcualia, W-shaped myomeres, and a post-anal tail. A striking feature
is the branchial area with an array of bipartite bars. Apart from the
anterior-most bar, which appears to be slightly thicker, each is associated with 
externally located gills, possibly housed in pouches. Phylogenetic analysis
places Metaspriggina as a basal vertebrate, apparently close to the Chengjiang
taxa Haikouichthys and Myllokunmingia, demonstrating also that this primitive
group of fish was cosmopolitan during Lower-Middle Cambrian times (Series 2-3).
However, the arrangement of the branchial region in Metaspriggina has wider
implications for reconstructing the morphology of the primitive vertebrate. Each 
bipartite bar is identified as being respectively equivalent to an epibranchial
and ceratobranchial. This configuration suggests that a bipartite arrangement is 
primitive and reinforces the view that the branchial basket of lampreys is
probably derived. Other features of Metaspriggina, including the external
position of the gills and possible absence of a gill opposite the more robust
anterior-most bar, are characteristic of gnathostomes and so may be primitive
within vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13414 
PMID: 24919146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):393-9.

Diversity and dynamics of the Drosophila transcriptome.

Brown JB, Boley N, Eisman R, May GE, Stoiber MH, Duff MO, Booth BW, Wen J, Park
S, Suzuki AM, Wan KH, Yu C, Zhang D, Carlson JW, Cherbas L, Eads BD, Miller D,
Mockaitis K, Roberts J, Davis CA, Frise E, Hammonds AS, Olson S, Shenker S,
Sturgill D, Samsonova AA, Weiszmann R, Robinson G, Hernandez J, Andrews J, Bickel
PJ, Carninci P, Cherbas P, Gingeras TR, Hoskins RA, Kaufman TC, Lai EC, Oliver B,
Perrimon N, Graveley BR, Celniker SE.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2014;15(4):112.
    Nature. 2014 Aug 28;512(7515):374-5.

Animal transcriptomes are dynamic, with each cell type, tissue and organ system
expressing an ensemble of transcript isoforms that give rise to substantial
diversity. Here we have identified new genes, transcripts and proteins using
poly(A)+ RNA sequencing from Drosophila melanogaster in cultured cell lines,
dissected organ systems and under environmental perturbations. We found that a
small set of mostly neural-specific genes has the potential to encode thousands
of transcripts each through extensive alternative promoter usage and RNA
splicing. The magnitudes of splicing changes are larger between tissues than
between developmental stages, and most sex-specific splicing is gonad-specific.
Gonads express hundreds of previously unknown coding and long non-coding RNAs
(lncRNAs), some of which are antisense to protein-coding genes and produce short 
regulatory RNAs. Furthermore, previously identified pervasive intergenic
transcription occurs primarily within newly identified introns. The fly
transcriptome is substantially more complex than previously recognized, with this
complexity arising from combinatorial usage of promoters, splice sites and
polyadenylation sites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12962 
PMCID: PMC4152413
PMID: 24670639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):333-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13669.

X-ray structures of GluCl in apo states reveal a gating mechanism of Cys-loop
receptors.

Althoff T(1), Hibbs RE(1), Banerjee S(2), Gouaux E(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Vollum Institute, Oregon Health &Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2] Department of Physiology, David Geffen
School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, 10833 Le Conte Avenue, 
Los Angeles, California 90095-1751, USA (T.A.); Department of Neuroscience,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 Harry Hines Blvd, Dallas,
Texas 75390-9111, USA (R.E.H.). [3].
(2)NE-CAT/Cornell University, 9700 South Cass Avenue, Building 436 E001, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA.
(3)1] Vollum Institute, Oregon Health &Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Oregon Health &Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland,
Oregon 97239, USA.

Cys-loop receptors are neurotransmitter-gated ion channels that are essential
mediators of fast chemical neurotransmission and are associated with a large
number of neurological diseases and disorders, as well as parasitic infections.
Members of this ion channel superfamily mediate excitatory or inhibitory
neurotransmission depending on their ligand and ion selectivity. Structural
information for Cys-loop receptors comes from several sources including electron 
microscopic studies of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, high-resolution
X-ray structures of extracellular domains and X-ray structures of bacterial
orthologues. In 2011 our group published structures of the Caenorhabditis elegans
glutamate-gated chloride channel (GluCl) in complex with the allosteric partial
agonist ivermectin, which provided insights into the structure of a possibly open
state of a eukaryotic Cys-loop receptor, the basis for anion selectivity and
channel block, and the mechanism by which ivermectin and related molecules
stabilize the open state and potentiate neurotransmitter binding. However, there 
remain unanswered questions about the mechanism of channel opening and closing,
the location and nature of the shut ion channel gate, the transitions between the
closed/resting, open/activated and closed/desensitized states, and the mechanism 
by which conformational changes are coupled between the extracellular,
orthosteric agonist binding domain and the transmembrane, ion channel domain.
Here we present two conformationally distinct structures of C. elegans GluCl in
the absence of ivermectin. Structural comparisons reveal a quaternary activation 
mechanism arising from rigid-body movements between the extracellular and
transmembrane domains and a mechanism for modulation of the receptor by
phospholipids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13669 
PMCID: PMC4255919
PMID: 25143115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):310-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13667.

A microbial ecosystem beneath the West Antarctic ice sheet.

Christner BC(1), Priscu JC(2), Achberger AM(1), Barbante C(3), Carter SP(4),
Christianson K(5), Michaud AB(2), Mikucki JA(6), Mitchell AC(7), Skidmore ML(8), 
Vick-Majors TJ(2); WISSARD Science Team.

Collaborators: Adkins WP, Anandakrishnan S, Barcheck G, Beem L, Behar A, Beitch
M, Bolsey R, Branecky C, Edwards R, Fisher A, Fricker HA, Foley N, Guthrie B,
Hodson T, Horgan H, Jacobel R, Kelley S, Mankoff KD, McBryan E, Powell R, Purcell
A, Sampson D, Scherer R, Sherve J, Siegfried M, Tulaczyk S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA.
(2)Department of Land Resources and Environmental Science, Montana State
University, Bozeman, Montana 59717, USA.
(3)Institute for the Dynamics of Environmental Processes - CNR, Venice, and
Department of Environmental Sciences, Informatics and Statistics, Ca'Foscari
University of Venice, Venice 30123, Italy.
(4)Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics, Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093,
USA.
(5)1] Physics Department, St Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota 55057, USA [2]
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University, New York, New
York 10012, USA (K.C.).
(6)Department of Microbiology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee
37996, USA.
(7)Department of Geography and Earth Sciences, Aberystwyth University,
Aberystwyth SY23 3DB, UK.
(8)Department of Earth Science, Montana State University, Bozeman, Montana 59717,
USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):394. Horgan, H [added].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):256-7.

Liquid water has been known to occur beneath the Antarctic ice sheet for more
than 40 years, but only recently have these subglacial aqueous environments been 
recognized as microbial ecosystems that may influence biogeochemical
transformations on a global scale. Here we present the first geomicrobiological
description of water and surficial sediments obtained from direct sampling of a
subglacial Antarctic lake. Subglacial Lake Whillans (SLW) lies beneath
approximately 800 m of ice on the lower portion of the Whillans Ice Stream (WIS) 
in West Antarctica and is part of an extensive and evolving subglacial drainage
network. The water column of SLW contained metabolically active microorganisms
and was derived primarily from glacial ice melt with solute sources from
lithogenic weathering and a minor seawater component. Heterotrophic and
autotrophic production data together with small subunit ribosomal RNA gene
sequencing and biogeochemical data indicate that SLW is a chemosynthetically
driven ecosystem inhabited by a diverse assemblage of bacteria and archaea. Our
results confirm that aquatic environments beneath the Antarctic ice sheet support
viable microbial ecosystems, corroborating previous reports suggesting that they 
contain globally relevant pools of carbon and microbes that can mobilize elements
from the lithosphere and influence Southern Ocean geochemical and biological
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13667 
PMID: 25143114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):306-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13621.

The timing and spatiotemporal patterning of Neanderthal disappearance.

Higham T(1), Douka K(1), Wood R(2), Ramsey CB(1), Brock F(1), Basell L(3), Camps 
M(4), Arrizabalaga A(5), Baena J(6), Barroso-Ruíz C(7), Bergman C(8), Boitard
C(9), Boscato P(10), Caparrós M(11), Conard NJ(12), Draily C(13), Froment A(14), 
Galván B(15), Gambassini P(10), Garcia-Moreno A(16), Grimaldi S(17), Haesaerts
P(18), Holt B(19), Iriarte-Chiapusso MJ(5), Jelinek A(20), Jordá Pardo JF(21),
Maíllo-Fernández JM(21), Marom A(22), Maroto J(23), Menéndez M(21), Metz L(24),
Morin E(25), Moroni A(10), Negrino F(26), Panagopoulou E(27), Peresani M(28),
Pirson S(29), de la Rasilla M(30), Riel-Salvatore J(31), Ronchitelli A(10),
Santamaria D(30), Semal P(32), Slimak L(24), Soler J(23), Soler N(23),
Villaluenga A(33), Pinhasi R(34), Jacobi R(35).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit, Research Laboratory for Archaeology &the 
History of Art, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK.
(2)1] Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit, Research Laboratory for Archaeology
&the History of Art, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK [2] Research School
for Earth Sciences, Australian National University, Canberra 0200, Australia.
(3)School of Geography, Archaeology and Palaeoecology (GAP), Queen's University
Belfast, Belfast BT7 1NN, UK.
(4)School of Languages, Literatures and Cultures, College Park, 4102 Jiménez
Hall, University of Maryland, Maryland 20742-4821, USA.
(5)Research Team on Prehistory (IT-622-13), IKERBASQUE, University of the Basque 
Country (UPV-EHU), Tomás y Valiente Street, 01006 Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.
(6)Departimento Prehistoria y Arqueología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Campus
Cantoblanco, 28049 Madrid, Spain.
(7)Fundación Instituto de Investigación de Prehistoria y Evolución Humana, Plaza 
del Coso 1, 14900 Lucena, Córdoba, Spain.
(8)URS, 525 Vine Street, Suite 1800, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, USA.
(9)8 rue des Sapins, 67100 Strasbourg, France.
(10)Dipartimento di Scienze Fisiche, della Terra e dell'Ambiente, U.R. Preistoria
e Antropologia, Università degli Studi di Siena, Via Laterina 8, 53100 Siena,
Italy.
(11)Département de Préhistoire, Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, 75013
París, France.
(12)1] Abt. Ältere Urgeschichte und Quartärökologie, Universität Tübingen,
Schloss Hohentübingen, 72070 Tübingen, Germany [2] Tübingen Senckenberg Center
for Human Evolution and Paleoecology, Schloss Hohentübingen, 72070 Tübingen,
Germany.
(13)Service public de Wallonie, DGO4, Service de l'Archéologie, rue des Martyrs, 
22, B-6700 Arlon, Belgium.
(14)Laboratoire d'Éco-antropologie et Ethnobiologie, Musée de l'Homme, 17 place
du Trocadéro, 75116 Paris, France.
(15)Departamento de Prehistoria, Arqueología, Antropología e Historia Antigua,
Universidad de La Laguna, Campus de Guajara, 38071 Tenerife, Spain.
(16)1] Monrepos Archaeological Research Centre and Museum for Human Behavioural
Evolution, Schloss Monrepos, D-56567 Neuwied, Germany [2] The Cantabria
International Institute for Prehistoric Research (IIIPC), University of
Cantabria, Avda. Los Castros, s/n. 39005 Santander, Spain.
(17)Laboratorio di Preistoria 'B. Bagolini', Dipartimento di Lettere e Filosofia,
Università degli Studi di Trento, via Tommaso Gar, 14 I-38122 Trento, Italy.
(18)Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelles de Belgique, rue Vautier 29, B-1000
Brussels, Belgium.
(19)Department of Anthropology, University of Massachusetts, 103 Machmer Hall,
Amherst, Massachusetts 01003, USA.
(20)School of Anthropology, Emil W. Haury Building, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85721-0030, USA.
(21)Departamento de Prehistoria y Arqueología, UNED. Paseo Senda del Rey 7,
20840, Madrid, Spain.
(22)1] Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit, Research Laboratory for Archaeology
&the History of Art, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK [2] The Kimmel
Center for Archaeological Science, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, 
Israel.
(23)rea de Prehistòria, Universitat de Girona, pl. Ferrater Mora 1, 17071 Girona,
Spain.
(24)CNRS, UMR 5608, TRACES, Toulouse Jean Jaurès University, Maison de la
Recherche, 5 Allées Antonio Machado, 31058 Toulouse, Cedex 9, France.
(25)Department of Anthropology, Trent University, Life and Health Sciences
Building Block C, 2140 East Bank Drive, Peterborough, Ontario K9J 7B8, Canada.
(26)Dipartimento di Antichità, Filosofia e Storia, Università di Genova, Via
Balbi 2, Genova I-16126, Italy.
(27)Ephoreia of Paleoanthropology of Southern Greece, Ardittou 34B, Athens 11636,
Greece.
(28)Università di Ferrara, Dipartimento di Studi Umanistici, Sezione di Scienze
Preistoriche e Antropologiche, Corso Ercole I d'Este 32, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy.
(29)Service public de Wallonie, DGO4, Direction de l'Archéologie, rue des
Brigades d'Irlande, 1, B-5100 Jambes, Belgium.
(30)Departamento de Historia, Universidad de Oviedo, c/Teniente Alfonso Martínez,
s/n, 33011 Oviedo, Spain.
(31)Département d'Anthropologie, Université de Montréal, C. P. 6128, Succursale
Centre-ville, Montréal, Quebec H3T 1N8, Canada.
(32)Service of Scientific Heritage, Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, 
1000 Brussels, Belgium.
(33)Monrepos Archaeological Research Centre and Museum for Human Behavioural
Evolution, Schloss Monrepos, D-56567 Neuwied, Germany.
(34)UCD Earth Institute and School of Archaeology, University College Dublin,
Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland.
(35)1] Department of Prehistory and Europe, Franks House, The British Museum,
London N1 5QJ, UK [2] The Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD, 
UK [3].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):260-1.

The timing of Neanderthal disappearance and the extent to which they overlapped
with the earliest incoming anatomically modern humans (AMHs) in Eurasia are key
questions in palaeoanthropology. Determining the spatiotemporal relationship
between the two populations is crucial if we are to understand the processes,
timing and reasons leading to the disappearance of Neanderthals and the
likelihood of cultural and genetic exchange. Serious technical challenges,
however, have hindered reliable dating of the period, as the radiocarbon method
reaches its limit at ∼50,000 years ago. Here we apply improved accelerator mass
spectrometry (14)C techniques to construct robust chronologies from 40 key
Mousterian and Neanderthal archaeological sites, ranging from Russia to Spain.
Bayesian age modelling was used to generate probability distribution functions to
determine the latest appearance date. We show that the Mousterian ended by
41,030-39,260 calibrated years bp (at 95.4% probability) across Europe. We also
demonstrate that succeeding 'transitional' archaeological industries, one of
which has been linked with Neanderthals (Châtelperronian), end at a similar time.
Our data indicate that the disappearance of Neanderthals occurred at different
times in different regions. Comparing the data with results obtained from the
earliest dated AMH sites in Europe, associated with the Uluzzian technocomplex,
allows us to quantify the temporal overlap between the two human groups. The
results reveal a significant overlap of 2,600-5,400 years (at 95.4% probability).
This has important implications for models seeking to explain the cultural,
technological and biological elements involved in the replacement of Neanderthals
by AMHs. A mosaic of populations in Europe during the Middle to Upper
Palaeolithic transition suggests that there was ample time for the transmission
of cultural and symbolic behaviours, as well as possible genetic exchanges,
between the two groups.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13621 
PMID: 25143113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):303-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13622.

Dietary specializations and diversity in feeding ecology of the earliest stem
mammals.

Gill PG(1), Purnell MA(2), Crumpton N(3), Brown KR(4), Gostling NJ(3), Stampanoni
M(5), Rayfield EJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building,
Queens Road, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK.
(2)Department of Geology, University of Leicester, University Road, Leicester LE1
7RH, UK.
(3)1] School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Wills Memorial Building,
Queens Road, Bristol BS8 1RJ, UK [2] Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road,
London SW7 5BD, UK (N.C.); Ocean and Earth Science, National Oceanography Centre,
University of Southampton, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK (N.J.G.).
(4)Department of Archaeology and Anthropology, University of Bristol, Woodland
Road, Bristol BS8 1UU, UK.
(5)1] Swiss Light Source, Paul Scherrer Institute, CH-5232 Villigen, Switzerland 
[2] Institute for Biomedical Engineering, University and ETH Zürich,
Gloriastrasse 35, CH-8092 Zürich, Switzerland.
(6)School of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol, Life Sciences Building, 24
Tyndall Avenue, Bristol BS8 1TQ, UK.

The origin and radiation of mammals are key events in the history of life, with
fossils placing the origin at 220 million years ago, in the Late Triassic period.
The earliest mammals, representing the first 50 million years of their evolution 
and including the most basal taxa, are widely considered to be generalized
insectivores. This implies that the first phase of the mammalian
radiation--associated with the appearance in the fossil record of important
innovations such as heterodont dentition, diphyodonty and the dentary-squamosal
jaw joint--was decoupled from ecomorphological diversification. Finds of
exceptionally complete specimens of later Mesozoic mammals have revealed greater 
ecomorphological diversity than previously suspected, including adaptations for
swimming, burrowing, digging and even gliding, but such well-preserved fossils of
earlier mammals do not exist, and robust analysis of their ecomorphological
diversity has previously been lacking. Here we present the results of an
integrated analysis, using synchrotron X-ray tomography and analyses of
biomechanics, finite element models and tooth microwear textures. We find
significant differences in function and dietary ecology between two of the
earliest mammaliaform taxa, Morganucodon and Kuehneotherium--taxa that are
central to the debate on mammalian evolution. Morganucodon possessed
comparatively more forceful and robust jaws and consumed 'harder' prey,
comparable to extant small-bodied mammals that eat considerable amounts of
coleopterans. Kuehneotherium ingested a diet comparable to extant mixed feeders
and specialists on 'soft' prey such as lepidopterans. Our results reveal
previously hidden trophic specialization at the base of the mammalian radiation; 
hence even the earliest mammaliaforms were beginning to
diversify--morphologically, functionally and ecologically. In contrast to the
prevailing view, this pattern suggests that lineage splitting during the earliest
stages of mammalian evolution was associated with ecomorphological specialization
and niche partitioning.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13622 
PMID: 25143112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):286-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13634.

Magneto-optical trapping of a diatomic molecule.

Barry JF(1), McCarron DJ(2), Norrgard EB(2), Steinecker MH(2), DeMille D(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, Yale University, PO Box 208120, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, Yale University, PO Box 208120, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):261-2.

Laser cooling and trapping are central to modern atomic physics. The most used
technique in cold-atom physics is the magneto-optical trap (MOT), which combines 
laser cooling with a restoring force from radiation pressure. For a variety of
atomic species, MOTs can capture and cool large numbers of particles to ultracold
temperatures (less than ∼1 millikelvin); this has enabled advances in areas that 
range from optical clocks to the study of ultracold collisions, while also
serving as the ubiquitous starting point for further cooling into the regime of
quantum degeneracy. Magneto-optical trapping of molecules could provide a
similarly powerful starting point for the study and manipulation of ultracold
molecular gases. The additional degrees of freedom associated with the vibration 
and rotation of molecules, particularly their permanent electric dipole moments, 
allow a broad array of applications not possible with ultracold atoms. Spurred by
these ideas, a variety of methods has been developed to create ultracold
molecules. Temperatures below 1 microkelvin have been demonstrated for diatomic
molecules assembled from pre-cooled alkali atoms, but for the wider range of
species amenable to direct cooling and trapping, only recently have temperatures 
below 100 millikelvin been achieved. The complex internal structure of molecules 
complicates magneto-optical trapping. However, ideas and methods necessary for
creating a molecular MOT have been developed recently. Here we demonstrate
three-dimensional magneto-optical trapping of a diatomic molecule, strontium
monofluoride (SrF), at a temperature of approximately 2.5 millikelvin, the lowest
yet achieved by direct cooling of a molecule. This method is a straightforward
extension of atomic techniques and is expected to be viable for a significant
number of diatomic species. With further development, we anticipate that this
technique may be employed in any number of existing and proposed molecular
experiments, in applications ranging from precision measurement to quantum
simulation and quantum information to ultracold chemistry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13634 
PMID: 25143111 


401. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):299-302. doi: 10.1038/nature13681. Epub 2014 Aug
13.

Gradual unlocking of plate boundary controlled initiation of the 2014 Iquique
earthquake.

Schurr B(1), Asch G(1), Hainzl S(1), Bedford J(1), Hoechner A(1), Palo M(1), Wang
R(1), Moreno M(1), Bartsch M(1), Zhang Y(2), Oncken O(1), Tilmann F(1), Dahm
T(1), Victor P(1), Barrientos S(3), Vilotte JP(4).

Author information: 
(1)GFZ Helmholtz Centre Potsdam, German Research Centre for Geosciences,
Telegrafenberg, 14473 Potsdam, Germany.
(2)School of Earth and Space Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(3)Centro Sismológico National, Universidad de Chile, Facultad de Ciencias
Físicas y Matemáticas, Blanco Encalada 2002, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, 1, rue Jussieu, 75238 Paris cedex 05, 
France.

On 1 April 2014, Northern Chile was struck by a magnitude 8.1 earthquake
following a protracted series of foreshocks. The Integrated Plate Boundary
Observatory Chile monitored the entire sequence of events, providing
unprecedented resolution of the build-up to the main event and its rupture
evolution. Here we show that the Iquique earthquake broke a central fraction of
the so-called northern Chile seismic gap, the last major segment of the South
American plate boundary that had not ruptured in the past century. Since July
2013 three seismic clusters, each lasting a few weeks, hit this part of the plate
boundary with earthquakes of increasing peak magnitudes. Starting with the second
cluster, geodetic observations show surface displacements that can be associated 
with slip on the plate interface. These seismic clusters and their slip
transients occupied a part of the plate interface that was transitional between a
fully locked and a creeping portion. Leading up to this earthquake, the b value
of the foreshocks gradually decreased during the years before the earthquake,
reversing its trend a few days before the Iquique earthquake. The mainshock
finally nucleated at the northern end of the foreshock area, which skirted a
locked patch, and ruptured mainly downdip towards higher locking. Peak slip was
attained immediately downdip of the foreshock region and at the margin of the
locked patch. We conclude that gradual weakening of the central part of the
seismic gap accentuated by the foreshock activity in a zone of intermediate
seismic coupling was instrumental in causing final failure, distinguishing the
Iquique earthquake from most great earthquakes. Finally, only one-third of the
gap was broken and the remaining locked segments now pose a significant,
increased seismic hazard with the potential to host an earthquake with a
magnitude of >8.5.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13681 
PMID: 25119049 


402. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):276-81. doi: 10.1038/nature13552. Epub 2014 Aug 3.

X-ray structure of the mouse serotonin 5-HT3 receptor.

Hassaine G(1), Deluz C(2), Grasso L(3), Wyss R(3), Tol MB(3), Hovius R(3), Graff 
A(4), Stahlberg H(4), Tomizaki T(5), Desmyter A(6), Moreau C(7), Li XD(8),
Poitevin F(9), Vogel H(3), Nury H(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Polymers and Membranes, Ecole
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland [2] [3]
Theranyx, 163 Avenue de Luminy, 13288 Marseille, France.
(2)1] Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Polymers and Membranes, Ecole
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland [2].
(3)Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Polymers and Membranes, Ecole
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Center for Cellular Imaging and NanoAnalytics, Biozentrum, University of
Basel, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Swiss Light Source, Paul Scherrer Institute, CH-5234 Villigen, Switzerland.
(6)Architecture et Fonction des Macromolécules Biologiques, CNRS UMR 7257 and
Université Aix-Marseille, F-13288 Marseille, France.
(7)1] Université Grenoble Alpes, IBS, F-38000 Grenoble, France [2] CNRS, IBS,
F-38000 Grenoble, France [3] CEA, DSV, IBS, F-38000 Grenoble, France.
(8)Laboratory of Biomolecular Research, Paul Scherrer Institute, CH-5232
Villigen, Switzerland.
(9)Unité de Dynamique Structurale des Macromolécules, Institut Pasteur, CNRS
UMR3528, F-75015 Paris, France.
(10)1] Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Polymers and Membranes, Ecole
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland [2] Université 
Grenoble Alpes, IBS, F-38000 Grenoble, France [3] CNRS, IBS, F-38000 Grenoble,
France [4] CEA, DSV, IBS, F-38000 Grenoble, France.

Neurotransmitter-gated ion channels of the Cys-loop receptor family mediate fast 
neurotransmission throughout the nervous system. The molecular processes of
neurotransmitter binding, subsequent opening of the ion channel and ion
permeation remain poorly understood. Here we present the X-ray structure of a
mammalian Cys-loop receptor, the mouse serotonin 5-HT3 receptor, at 3.5 Å
resolution. The structure of the proteolysed receptor, made up of two fragments
and comprising part of the intracellular domain, was determined in complex with
stabilizing nanobodies. The extracellular domain reveals the detailed anatomy of 
the neurotransmitter binding site capped by a nanobody. The membrane domain
delimits an aqueous pore with a 4.6 Å constriction. In the intracellular domain, 
a bundle of five intracellular helices creates a closed vestibule where lateral
portals are obstructed by loops. This 5-HT3 receptor structure, revealing part of
the intracellular domain, expands the structural basis for understanding the
operating mechanism of mammalian Cys-loop receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13552 
PMID: 25119048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):319-23. doi: 10.1038/nature13623. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Jam1a-Jam2a interactions regulate haematopoietic stem cell fate through Notch
signalling.

Kobayashi I(1), Kobayashi-Sun J(1), Kim AD(1), Pouget C(1), Fujita N(2), Suda
T(3), Traver D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0380, USA.
(2)Section of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0380, USA.
(3)Department of Cell Differentiation, The Sakaguchi Laboratory, School of
Medicine, Keio University, Shinjukuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(4)1] Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0380, USA [2] Section of Cell and
Developmental Biology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 
92093-0380, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):257-8.

Notch signalling plays a key role in the generation of haematopoietic stem cells 
(HSCs) during vertebrate development and requires intimate contact between
signal-emitting and signal-receiving cells, although little is known regarding
when, where and how these intercellular events occur. We previously reported that
the somitic Notch ligands, Dlc and Dld, are essential for HSC specification. It
has remained unclear, however, how these somitic requirements are connected to
the later emergence of HSCs from the dorsal aorta. Here we show in zebrafish that
Notch signalling establishes HSC fate as their shared vascular precursors migrate
across the ventral face of the somite and that junctional adhesion molecules
(JAMs) mediate this required Notch signal transduction. HSC precursors express
jam1a (also known as f11r) and migrate axially across the ventral somite, where
Jam2a and the Notch ligands Dlc and Dld are expressed. Despite no alteration in
the expression of Notch ligand or receptor genes, loss of function of jam1a led
to loss of Notch signalling and loss of HSCs. Enforced activation of Notch in
shared vascular precursors rescued HSCs in jam1a or jam2a deficient embryos.
Together, these results indicate that Jam1a-Jam2a interactions facilitate the
transduction of requisite Notch signals from the somite to the precursors of
HSCs, and that these events occur well before formation of the dorsal aorta.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13623 
PMCID: PMC4237229
PMID: 25119047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):314-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13678. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Haematopoietic stem cell induction by somite-derived endothelial cells controlled
by meox1.

Nguyen PD(1), Hollway GE(2), Sonntag C(3), Miles LB(3), Hall TE(3), Berger S(3), 
Fernandez KJ(4), Gurevich DB(3), Cole NJ(5), Alaei S(6), Ramialison M(3),
Sutherland RL(2), Polo JM(6), Lieschke GJ(3), Currie PD(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Level 1, Building 75, Monash
University, Wellington Road, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia [2].
(2)1] The Kinghorn Cancer Centre &Cancer Research Program, Garvan Institute of
Medical Research, Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, New South Wales 2010, Australia 
[2] St Vincent's Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, University of New South
Wales, Kensington, New South Wales 2052, Australia [3].
(3)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Level 1, Building 75, Monash
University, Wellington Road, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(4)The Kinghorn Cancer Centre &Cancer Research Program, Garvan Institute of
Medical Research, Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, New South Wales 2010, Australia.
(5)1] Anatomy Department, University of Sydney Medical School Anderson Stuart
Building University of Sydney, Camperdown, New South Wales 2006, Australia [2]
MND Research Program, Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie
University, New South Wales 2109, Australia.
(6)1] Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Level 1, Building 75, Monash
University, Wellington Road, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia [2] Department of 
Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University, Wellington Road, Clayton
Victoria 3800, Australia.
(7)1] Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Level 1, Building 75, Monash
University, Wellington Road, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia [2] EMBL
Australia, Level 1, Building 75, Monash University, Wellington Road, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia [3].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):257-8.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are self-renewing stem cells capable of
replenishing all blood lineages. In all vertebrate embryos that have been
studied, definitive HSCs are generated initially within the dorsal aorta (DA) of 
the embryonic vasculature by a series of poorly understood inductive events.
Previous studies have identified that signalling relayed from adjacent somites
coordinates HSC induction, but the nature of this signal has remained elusive.
Here we reveal that somite specification of HSCs occurs via the deployment of a
specific endothelial precursor population, which arises within a sub-compartment 
of the zebrafish somite that we have defined as the endotome. Endothelial cells
of the endotome are specified within the nascent somite by the activity of the
homeobox gene meox1. Specified endotomal cells consequently migrate and colonize 
the DA, where they induce HSC formation through the deployment of chemokine
signalling activated in these cells during endotome formation. Loss of meox1
activity expands the endotome at the expense of a second somitic cell type, the
muscle precursors of the dermomyotomal equivalent in zebrafish, the external cell
layer. The resulting increase in endotome-derived cells that migrate to colonize 
the DA generates a dramatic increase in chemokine-dependent HSC induction. This
study reveals the molecular basis for a novel somite lineage restriction
mechanism and defines a new paradigm in induction of definitive HSCs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13678 
PMID: 25119043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):282-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13522. Epub 2014 Aug 10.

Interacting supernovae from photoionization-confined shells around red supergiant
stars.

Mackey J(1), Mohamed S(2), Gvaramadze VV(3), Kotak R(4), Langer N(1), Meyer
DM(1), Moriya TJ(1), Neilson HR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Argelander-Institut für Astronomie, Auf dem Hügel 71, 53121 Bonn, Germany.
(2)South African Astronomical Observatory, PO Box 9, 7935 Observatory, South
Africa.
(3)1] Sternberg Astronomical Institute, Lomonosov Moscow State University,
Universitetskij Prospect 13, Moscow 119992, Russia [2] Isaac Newton Institute of 
Chile, Moscow Branch, Universitetskij Prospect 13, Moscow 119992, Russia [3]
Space Research Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Profsoyuznaya 84/32,
Moscow 117997, Russia.
(4)Astrophysics Research Centre, School of Mathematics and Physics, Queen's
University Belfast, Belfast BT7 1NN, UK.
(5)Department of Physics and Astronomy, East Tennessee State University, Box
70652, Johnson City, Tennessee 37614, USA.

Betelgeuse, a nearby red supergiant, is a fast-moving star with a powerful
stellar wind that drives a bow shock into its surroundings. This picture has been
challenged by the discovery of a dense and almost static shell that is three
times closer to the star than the bow shock and has been decelerated by some
external force. The two physically distinct structures cannot both be formed by
the hydrodynamic interaction of the wind with the interstellar medium. Here we
report that a model in which Betelgeuse's wind is photoionized by radiation from 
external sources can explain the static shell without requiring a new
understanding of the bow shock. Pressure from the photoionized wind generates a
standing shock in the neutral part of the wind and forms an almost static,
photoionization-confined shell. Other red supergiants should have much more
massive shells than Betelgeuse, because the photoionization-confined shell traps 
up to 35 per cent of all mass lost during the red supergiant phase, confining
this gas close to the star until it explodes. After the supernova explosion,
massive shells dramatically affect the supernova light curve, providing a natural
explanation for the many supernovae that have signatures of circumstellar
interaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13522 
PMID: 25119040 


406. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):295-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13677. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Continuing megathrust earthquake potential in Chile after the 2014 Iquique
earthquake.

Hayes GP(1), Herman MW(2), Barnhart WD(1), Furlong KP(2), Riquelme S(3), Benz
HM(1), Bergman E(4), Barrientos S(3), Earle PS(1), Samsonov S(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Earthquake Information Center, United States Geological Survey,
Golden, Colorado 80401, USA.
(2)Department of Geosciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(3)Centro Sismológico Nacional, Universidad de Chile, Blanco Encalada 2002,
Santiago 8370449, Chile.
(4)Global Seismological Services, Golden, Colorado 80401, USA.
(5)Canada Centre for Mapping and Earth Observation, Natural Resources Canada,
Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0E4, Canada.

The seismic gap theory identifies regions of elevated hazard based on a lack of
recent seismicity in comparison with other portions of a fault. It has
successfully explained past earthquakes (see, for example, ref. 2) and is useful 
for qualitatively describing where large earthquakes might occur. A large
earthquake had been expected in the subduction zone adjacent to northern Chile,
which had not ruptured in a megathrust earthquake since a M ∼8.8 event in 1877.
On 1 April 2014 a M 8.2 earthquake occurred within this seismic gap. Here we
present an assessment of the seismotectonics of the March-April 2014 Iquique
sequence, including analyses of earthquake relocations, moment tensors, finite
fault models, moment deficit calculations and cumulative Coulomb stress transfer.
This ensemble of information allows us to place the sequence within the context
of regional seismicity and to identify areas of remaining and/or elevated hazard.
Our results constrain the size and spatial extent of rupture, and indicate that
this was not the earthquake that had been anticipated. Significant sections of
the northern Chile subduction zone have not ruptured in almost 150 years, so it
is likely that future megathrust earthquakes will occur to the south and
potentially to the north of the 2014 Iquique sequence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13677 
PMID: 25119028 


407. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):290-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13592. Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Abrupt glacial climate shifts controlled by ice sheet changes.

Zhang X(1), Lohmann G(2), Knorr G(3), Purcell C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research,
Bussestrasse 24, D-27570 Bremerhaven, Germany.
(2)1] Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research,
Bussestrasse 24, D-27570 Bremerhaven, Germany [2] MARUM-Center for Marine
Environmental Sciences, University Bremen, Leobener Strasse, D-28359 Bremen,
Germany.
(3)1] Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research,
Bussestrasse 24, D-27570 Bremerhaven, Germany [2] School of Earth and Ocean
Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF10 3AT, UK.

During glacial periods of the Late Pleistocene, an abundance of proxy data
demonstrates the existence of large and repeated millennial-scale warming
episodes, known as Dansgaard-Oeschger (DO) events. This ubiquitous feature of
rapid glacial climate change can be extended back as far as 800,000 years before 
present (BP) in the ice core record, and has drawn broad attention within the
science and policy-making communities alike. Many studies have been dedicated to 
investigating the underlying causes of these changes, but no coherent mechanism
has yet been identified. Here we show, by using a comprehensive fully coupled
model, that gradual changes in the height of the Northern Hemisphere ice sheets
(NHISs) can alter the coupled atmosphere-ocean system and cause rapid glacial
climate shifts closely resembling DO events. The simulated global climate
responses--including abrupt warming in the North Atlantic, a northward shift of
the tropical rainbelts, and Southern Hemisphere cooling related to the bipolar
seesaw--are generally consistent with empirical evidence. As a result of the
coexistence of two glacial ocean circulation states at intermediate heights of
the ice sheets, minor changes in the height of the NHISs and the amount of
atmospheric CO2 can trigger the rapid climate transitions via a local positive
atmosphere-ocean-sea-ice feedback in the North Atlantic. Our results, although
based on a single model, thus provide a coherent concept for understanding the
recorded millennial-scale variability and abrupt climate changes in the coupled
atmosphere-ocean system, as well as their linkages to the volume of the
intermediate ice sheets during glacials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13592 
PMID: 25119027 


408. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):324-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13387. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

A vaccine targeting mutant IDH1 induces antitumour immunity.

Schumacher T(1), Bunse L(1), Pusch S(2), Sahm F(2), Wiestler B(3), Quandt J(4),
Menn O(5), Osswald M(3), Oezen I(6), Ott M(6), Keil M(6), Balß J(7), Rauschenbach
K(6), Grabowska AK(8), Vogler I(9), Diekmann J(10), Trautwein N(11), Eichmüller
SB(4), Okun J(12), Stevanović S(11), Riemer AB(8), Sahin U(10), Friese MA(13),
Beckhove P(4), von Deimling A(2), Wick W(3), Platten M(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurooncology, University Hospital Heidelberg and National
Center for Tumor Diseases, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium
(DKTK) Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuroimmunology and Brain Tumor Immunology,
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [3].
(2)1] Department of Neuropathology, University Hospital Heidelberg and National
Center for Tumor Diseases, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium
(DKTK) Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuropathology, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)1] Department of Neurooncology, University Hospital Heidelberg and National
Center for Tumor Diseases, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium
(DKTK) Clinical Cooperation Unit Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Department of Translational Immunology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurooncology, University Hospital Heidelberg and National
Center for Tumor Diseases, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)1] Department of Neurooncology, University Hospital Heidelberg and National
Center for Tumor Diseases, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium
(DKTK) Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuroimmunology and Brain Tumor Immunology,
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(7)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuroimmunology
and Brain Tumor Immunology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120
Heidelberg, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) Clinical Cooperation Unit
Neuropathology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(8)Department of Immunotherapy and -prevention Group, German Cancer Research
Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(9)Ribological GmbH, 55131 Mainz, Germany.
(10)Translational Oncology, 55131 Mainz, Germany.
(11)Department of Immunology, University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(12)Metabolic Centre Heidelberg, University Children's Hospital, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(13)Center for Molecular Neurobiology, University Medical Center,
Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20251 Hamburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2014 Sep;4(9):OF13.
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Dec;82(6):933-5.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2014 Aug;10(8):428.

Monoallelic point mutations of isocitrate dehydrogenase type 1 (IDH1) are an
early and defining event in the development of a subgroup of gliomas and other
types of tumour. They almost uniformly occur in the critical arginine residue
(Arg 132) in the catalytic pocket, resulting in a neomorphic enzymatic function, 
production of the oncometabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG), genomic
hypermethylation, genetic instability and malignant transformation. More than 70%
of diffuse grade II and grade III gliomas carry the most frequent mutation,
IDH1(R132H) (ref. 3). From an immunological perspective, IDH1(R132H) represents a
potential target for immunotherapy as it is a tumour-specific potential
neoantigen with high uniformity and penetrance expressed in all tumour cells.
Here we demonstrate that IDH1(R132H) contains an immunogenic epitope suitable for
mutation-specific vaccination. Peptides encompassing the mutated region are
presented on major histocompatibility complexes (MHC) class II and induce
mutation-specific CD4(+) T-helper-1 (TH1) responses. CD4(+) TH1 cells and
antibodies spontaneously occurring in patients with IDH1(R132H)-mutated gliomas
specifically recognize IDH1(R132H). Peptide vaccination of mice devoid of mouse
MHC and transgenic for human MHC class I and II with IDH1(R132H) p123-142 results
in an effective MHC class II-restricted mutation-specific antitumour immune
response and control of pre-established syngeneic IDH1(R132H)-expressing tumours 
in a CD4(+) T-cell-dependent manner. As IDH1(R132H) is present in all tumour
cells of these slow-growing gliomas, a mutation-specific anti-IDH1(R132H) vaccine
may represent a viable novel therapeutic strategy for IDH1(R132H)-mutated
tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13387 
PMID: 25043048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):265-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13429. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Ribosomal frameshifting in the CCR5 mRNA is regulated by miRNAs and the NMD
pathway.

Belew AT(1), Meskauskas A(2), Musalgaonkar S(3), Advani VM(3), Sulima SO(4),
Kasprzak WK(5), Shapiro BA(6), Dinman JD(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland, 
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland, 
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA [2] Department of Biotechnology and
Microbiology, Vilnius University, Vilnius, LT 03101, Lithuania [3].
(3)Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland,
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.
(4)1] Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland, 
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA [2] VIB Center for the Biology of Disease, KU
Leuven, Campus Gasthuisberg, Herestraat 49, bus 602, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
(5)Basic Science Program, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick National
Laboratory for Cancer Research, Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(6)Basic Research Laboratory, National Cancer Institute, Frederick, Maryland
21702, USA.

Programmed -1 ribosomal frameshift (-1 PRF) signals redirect translating
ribosomes to slip back one base on messenger RNAs. Although well characterized in
viruses, how these elements may regulate cellular gene expression is not
understood. Here we describe a -1 PRF signal in the human mRNA encoding CCR5, the
HIV-1 co-receptor. CCR5 mRNA-mediated -1 PRF is directed by an mRNA pseudoknot,
and is stimulated by at least two microRNAs. Mapping the mRNA-miRNA interaction
suggests that formation of a triplex RNA structure stimulates -1 PRF. A -1 PRF
event on the CCR5 mRNA directs translating ribosomes to a premature termination
codon, destabilizing it through the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay pathway. At
least one additional mRNA decay pathway is also involved. Functional -1 PRF
signals that seem to be regulated by miRNAs are also demonstrated in mRNAs
encoding six other cytokine receptors, suggesting a novel mode through which
immune responses may be fine-tuned in mammalian cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13429 
PMCID: PMC4369343
PMID: 25043019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):328-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13428. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

Dynamic pathways of -1 translational frameshifting.

Chen J(1), Petrov A(2), Johansson M(2), Tsai A(1), O'Leary SE(2), Puglisi JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305-4090, USA [2] Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5126, USA.
(2)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305-5126, USA.

Spontaneous changes in the reading frame of translation are rare (frequency of
10(-3) to 10(-4) per codon), but can be induced by specific features in the
messenger RNA (mRNA). In the presence of mRNA secondary structures, a
heptanucleotide 'slippery sequence' usually defined by the motif X XXY YYZ, and
(in some prokaryotic cases) mRNA sequences that base pair with the 3' end of the 
16S ribosomal rRNA (internal Shine-Dalgarno sequences), there is an increased
probability that a specific programmed change of frame occurs, wherein the
ribosome shifts one nucleotide backwards into an overlapping reading frame (-1
frame) and continues by translating a new sequence of amino acids. Despite
extensive biochemical and genetic studies, there is no clear mechanistic
description for frameshifting. Here we apply single-molecule fluorescence to
track the compositional and conformational dynamics of individual ribosomes at
each codon during translation of a frameshift-inducing mRNA from the dnaX gene in
Escherichia coli. Ribosomes that frameshift into the -1 frame are characterized
by a tenfold longer pause in elongation compared to non-frameshifted ribosomes,
which translate through unperturbed. During the pause, interactions of the
ribosome with the mRNA stimulatory elements uncouple EF-G catalysed translocation
from normal ribosomal subunit reverse-rotation, leaving the ribosome in a
non-canonical intersubunit rotated state with an exposed codon in the
aminoacyl-tRNA site (A site). tRNA(Lys) sampling and accommodation to the empty A
site and EF-G action either leads to the slippage of the tRNAs into the -1 frame 
or maintains the ribosome into the 0 frame. Our results provide a general
mechanistic and conformational framework for -1 frameshifting, highlighting
multiple kinetic branchpoints during elongation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13428 
PMCID: PMC4472451
PMID: 24919156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):270-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13293. Epub 2014 Jun 8.

Crystal structure of a human GABAA receptor.

Miller PS(1), Aricescu AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics,
University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.

Type-A γ-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABAARs) are the principal mediators of
rapid inhibitory synaptic transmission in the human brain. A decline in GABAAR
signalling triggers hyperactive neurological disorders such as insomnia, anxiety 
and epilepsy. Here we present the first three-dimensional structure of a GABAAR, 
the human β3 homopentamer, at 3 Å resolution. This structure reveals
architectural elements unique to eukaryotic Cys-loop receptors, explains the
mechanistic consequences of multiple human disease mutations and shows an
unexpected structural role for a conserved N-linked glycan. The receptor was
crystallized bound to a previously unknown agonist, benzamidine, opening a new
avenue for the rational design of GABAAR modulators. The channel region forms a
closed gate at the base of the pore, representative of a desensitized state.
These results offer new insights into the signalling mechanisms of pentameric
ligand-gated ion channels and enhance current understanding of GABAergic
neurotransmission.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13293 
PMCID: PMC4167603
PMID: 24909990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):177-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13617. Epub 2014 Aug 6.

Formation of monatomic metallic glasses through ultrafast liquid quenching.

Zhong L(1), Wang J(1), Sheng H(2), Zhang Z(3), Mao SX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA.
(2)1] School of Physics, Astronomy and Computational Sciences, George Mason
University, Fairfax, Virginia 22030, USA [2] Center for High Pressure Science and
Technology Advanced Research, Shanghai 201203, China.
(3)Department of Materials Science and Engineering and State Key Laboratory of
Silicon Materials, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):142-3.

It has long been conjectured that any metallic liquid can be vitrified into a
glassy state provided that the cooling rate is sufficiently high. Experimentally,
however, vitrification of single-element metallic liquids is notoriously
difficult. True laboratory demonstration of the formation of monatomic metallic
glass has been lacking. Here we report an experimental approach to the
vitrification of monatomic metallic liquids by achieving an unprecedentedly high 
liquid-quenching rate of 10(14) K s(-1). Under such a high cooling rate, melts of
pure refractory body-centred cubic (bcc) metals, such as liquid tantalum and
vanadium, are successfully vitrified to form metallic glasses suitable for
property interrogations. Combining in situ transmission electron microscopy
observation and atoms-to-continuum modelling, we investigated the formation
condition and thermal stability of the monatomic metallic glasses as obtained.
The availability of monatomic metallic glasses, being the simplest glass formers,
offers unique possibilities for studying the structure and property relationships
of glasses. Our technique also shows great control over the reversible
vitrification-crystallization processes, suggesting its potential in
micro-electromechanical applications. The ultrahigh cooling rate, approaching the
highest liquid-quenching rate attainable in the experiment, makes it possible to 
explore the fast kinetics and structural behaviour of supercooled metallic
liquids within the nanosecond to picosecond regimes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13617 
PMID: 25119235 


413. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):174-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13632.

Cohesive forces prevent the rotational breakup of rubble-pile asteroid
(29075) 1950 DA.

Rozitis B(1), MacLennan E(1), Emery JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):139-40.

Space missions and ground-based observations have shown that some asteroids are
loose collections of rubble rather than solid bodies. The physical behaviour of
such 'rubble-pile' asteroids has been traditionally described using only
gravitational and frictional forces within a granular material. Cohesive forces
in the form of small van der Waals forces between constituent grains have
recently been predicted to be important for small rubble piles (ten kilometres
across or less), and could potentially explain fast rotation rates in the
small-asteroid population. The strongest evidence so far has come from an
analysis of the rotational breakup of the main-belt comet P/2013 R3 (ref. 7),
although that was indirect and poorly constrained by observations. Here we report
that the kilometre-sized asteroid (29075) 1950 DA (ref. 8) is a rubble pile that 
is rotating faster than is allowed by gravity and friction. We find that cohesive
forces are required to prevent surface mass shedding and structural failure, and 
that the strengths of the forces are comparable to, though somewhat less than,
the forces found between the grains of lunar regolith.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13632 
PMID: 25119234 


414. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):147-54. doi: 10.1038/nature13570.

Limits on fundamental limits to computation.

Markov IL(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] EECS Department, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan
48109-2121, USA [2] Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View,
California 94043, USA.

An indispensable part of our personal and working lives, computing has also
become essential to industries and governments. Steady improvements in computer
hardware have been supported by periodic doubling of transistor densities in
integrated circuits over the past fifty years. Such Moore scaling now requires
ever-increasing efforts, stimulating research in alternative hardware and
stirring controversy. To help evaluate emerging technologies and increase our
understanding of integrated-circuit scaling, here I review fundamental limits to 
computation in the areas of manufacturing, energy, physical space, design and
verification effort, and algorithms. To outline what is achievable in principle
and in practice, I recapitulate how some limits were circumvented, and compare
loose and tight limits. Engineering difficulties encountered by emerging
technologies may indicate yet unknown limits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13570 
PMID: 25119233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):155-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13600. Epub 2014 Jul 30.

Clonal evolution in breast cancer revealed by single nucleus genome sequencing.

Wang Y(1), Waters J(1), Leung ML(2), Unruh A(1), Roh W(1), Shi X(1), Chen K(3),
Scheet P(4), Vattathil S(4), Liang H(3), Multani A(1), Zhang H(5), Zhao R(6),
Michor F(6), Meric-Bernstam F(7), Navin NE(8).

Author information: 
(1)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Genetics,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(2)1] The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Genetics, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] The University of Texas Graduate School of
Biomedical Sciences, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(3)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)1] The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Houston,
Texas 77030, USA [2] The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Department of Epidemiology, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(5)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Pathology,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, and Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(7)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center Department of
Investigational Cancer Therapeutics, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(8)1] The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Genetics, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] The University of Texas Graduate School of
Biomedical Sciences, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3] The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):143-4.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Oct;11(10):560.

Sequencing studies of breast tumour cohorts have identified many prevalent
mutations, but provide limited insight into the genomic diversity within tumours.
Here we developed a whole-genome and exome single cell sequencing approach called
nuc-seq that uses G2/M nuclei to achieve 91% mean coverage breadth. We applied
this method to sequence single normal and tumour nuclei from an
oestrogen-receptor-positive (ER(+)) breast cancer and a triple-negative ductal
carcinoma. In parallel, we performed single nuclei copy number profiling. Our
data show that aneuploid rearrangements occurred early in tumour evolution and
remained highly stable as the tumour masses clonally expanded. In contrast, point
mutations evolved gradually, generating extensive clonal diversity. Using
targeted single-molecule sequencing, many of the diverse mutations were shown to 
occur at low frequencies (<10%) in the tumour mass. Using mathematical modelling 
we found that the triple-negative tumour cells had an increased mutation rate
(13.3×), whereas the ER(+) tumour cells did not. These findings have important
implications for the diagnosis, therapeutic treatment and evolution of
chemoresistance in breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13600 
PMCID: PMC4158312
PMID: 25079324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):181-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13639. Epub 2014 Jul 30.

The tidal-rotational shape of the Moon and evidence for polar wander.

Garrick-Bethell I(1), Perera V(2), Nimmo F(3), Zuber MT(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Santa
Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] School of Space
Research, Kyung Hee University, 1 Seocheon-dong, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si,
Gyeonggi-do 446-701, Korea.
(2)1] Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Santa
Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] School of Earth and
Space Exploration, Arizona State University, PO Box 876004, Tempe, Arizona
85287-6004, USA.
(3)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Santa
Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(4)Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.

The origin of the Moon's large-scale topography is important for understanding
lunar geology, lunar orbital evolution and the Moon's orientation in the sky.
Previous hypotheses for its origin have included late accretion events, large
impacts, tidal effects and convection processes. However, testing these
hypotheses and quantifying the Moon's topography is complicated by the large
basins that have formed since the crust crystallized. Here we estimate the
large-scale lunar topography and gravity spherical harmonics outside these basins
and show that the bulk of the spherical harmonic degree-2 topography is
consistent with a crust-building process controlled by early tidal heating
throughout the Moon. The remainder of the degree-2 topography is consistent with 
a frozen tidal-rotational bulge that formed later, at a semi-major axis of about 
32 Earth radii. The probability of the degree-2 shape having both tidal-heating
and frozen shape characteristics by chance is less than 1%. We also infer that
internal density contrasts eventually reoriented the Moon's polar axis by
36 ± 4°, to the configuration we observe today. Together, these results link the 
geology of the near and far sides, and resolve long-standing questions about the 
Moon's large-scale shape, gravity and history of polar wander.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13639 
PMID: 25079322 


417. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):171-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13525. Epub 2014 Jul 27.

The origin of the local 1/4-keV X-ray flux in both charge exchange and a hot
bubble.

Galeazzi M(1), Chiao M(2), Collier MR(2), Cravens T(3), Koutroumpa D(4), Kuntz
KD(5), Lallement R(6), Lepri ST(7), McCammon D(8), Morgan K(8), Porter FS(2),
Robertson IP(3), Snowden SL(2), Thomas NE(2), Uprety Y(1), Ursino E(1), Walsh
BM(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida 33124, USA.
(2)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(3)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas
66045, USA.
(4)Université Versailles St Quentin; Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Université Paris 
06; CNRS/INSU, LATMOS-IPSL, Guyancourt 78280, France.
(5)The Henry A. Rowland Department of Physics and Astronomy, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.
(6)GEPI Observatoire de Paris, CNRS UMR 8111, Université Paris Diderot, 92190,
Meudon, France.
(7)Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(8)Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(9)1] NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA [2] Space 
Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

The solar neighbourhood is the closest and most easily studied sample of the
Galactic interstellar medium, an understanding of which is essential for models
of star formation and galaxy evolution. Observations of an unexpectedly intense
diffuse flux of easily absorbed 1/4-kiloelectronvolt X-rays, coupled with the
discovery that interstellar space within about a hundred parsecs of the Sun is
almost completely devoid of cool absorbing gas, led to a picture of a 'local
cavity' filled with X-ray-emitting hot gas, dubbed the local hot bubble. This
model was recently challenged by suggestions that the emission could instead be
readily produced within the Solar System by heavy solar-wind ions exchanging
electrons with neutral H and He in interplanetary space, potentially removing the
major piece of evidence for the local existence of million-degree gas within the 
Galactic disk. Here we report observations showing that the total solar-wind
charge-exchange contribution is approximately 40 per cent of the 1/4-keV flux in 
the Galactic plane. The fact that the measured flux is not dominated by charge
exchange supports the notion of a million-degree hot bubble extending about a
hundred parsecs from the Sun.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13525 
PMID: 25079321 


418. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):198-202. doi: 10.1038/nature13619. Epub 2014 Jul
30.

Replication stress is a potent driver of functional decline in ageing
haematopoietic stem cells.

Flach J(1), Bakker ST(2), Mohrin M(2), Conroy PC(3), Pietras EM(2), Reynaud D(2),
Alvarez S(4), Diolaiti ME(5), Ugarte F(6), Forsberg EC(6), Le Beau MM(7), Stohr
BA(5), Méndez J(4), Morrison CG(3), Passegué E(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] The Eli and Edythe Broad Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, Department of Medicine, Hem/Onc Division, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Institute of Experimental
Cancer Research, Comprehensive Cancer Center, 89081 Ulm, Germany.
(2)The Eli and Edythe Broad Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, Department of Medicine, Hem/Onc Division, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(3)Center for Chromosome Biology, School of Natural Sciences, National University
of Ireland Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(4)Spanish National Cancer Research Centre (CNIO), E-28049 Madrid, Spain.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(6)Institute for the Biology of Stem Cells, Department of Biomolecular
Engineering, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064,
USA.
(7)Section of Hematology/Oncology and the Comprehensive Cancer Center, University
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):140-1.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Sep;15(9):560-1.

Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) self-renew for life, thereby making them one of 
the few blood cells that truly age. Paradoxically, although HSCs numerically
expand with age, their functional activity declines over time, resulting in
degraded blood production and impaired engraftment following transplantation.
While many drivers of HSC ageing have been proposed, the reason why HSC function 
degrades with age remains unknown. Here we show that cycling old HSCs in mice
have heightened levels of replication stress associated with cell cycle defects
and chromosome gaps or breaks, which are due to decreased expression of
mini-chromosome maintenance (MCM) helicase components and altered dynamics of DNA
replication forks. Nonetheless, old HSCs survive replication unless confronted
with a strong replication challenge, such as transplantation. Moreover, once old 
HSCs re-establish quiescence, residual replication stress on ribosomal DNA (rDNA)
genes leads to the formation of nucleolar-associated γH2AX signals, which persist
owing to ineffective H2AX dephosphorylation by mislocalized PP4c phosphatase
rather than ongoing DNA damage. Persistent nucleolar γH2AX also acts as a histone
modification marking the transcriptional silencing of rDNA genes and decreased
ribosome biogenesis in quiescent old HSCs. Our results identify replication
stress as a potent driver of functional decline in old HSCs, and highlight the
MCM DNA helicase as a potential molecular target for rejuvenation therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13619 
PMCID: PMC4456040
PMID: 25079315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):185-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13402. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Neuropsychosocial profiles of current and future adolescent alcohol misusers.

Whelan R(1), Watts R(2), Orr CA(3), Althoff RR(4), Artiges E(5), Banaschewski
T(6), Barker GJ(7), Bokde AL(8), Büchel C(9), Carvalho FM(7), Conrod PJ(10), Flor
H(6), Fauth-Bühler M(11), Frouin V(12), Gallinat J(13), Gan G(14), Gowland P(15),
Heinz A(16), Ittermann B(17), Lawrence C(18), Mann K(6), Martinot JL(19), Nees
F(6), Ortiz N(20), Paillère-Martinot ML(21), Paus T(22), Pausova Z(23), Rietschel
M(6), Robbins TW(24), Smolka MN(14), Ströhle A(16), Schumann G(25), Garavan
H(26); IMAGEN Consortium.

Collaborators: Albrecht L, Arroyo M, Aydin S, Bach C, Barbot A, Bricaud Z,
Bromberg U, Bruehl R, Cattrell A, Czech K, Dalley J, Desrivieres S, Fadai T,
Fuchs B, Gollier Briand F, Head K, Heinrichs B, Heym N, Hübner T, Ihlenfeld A,
Ireland J, Ivanov N, Jia T, Jones J, Kepa A, Lanzerath D, Lathrop M, Lemaitre H, 
Lüdemann K, Martinez-Medina L, Mignon X, Miranda R, Müller K, Nymberg C, Pentilla
J, Poline JB, Poustka L, Rapp M, Ripke S, Rodehacke S, Rogers J, Romanowski A,
Ruggeri B, Schmäl C, Schmidt D, Schneider S, Schroeder M, Schubert F, Sommer W,
Spanagel R, Stacey D, Steiner S, Stephens D, Strache N, Struve M, Tahmasebi A,
Topper L, Vulser H, Walaszek B, Werts H, Williams S, Wong CP, Yacubian J, Ziesch 
V.

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05401,
USA [2] Department of Psychology, University College Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05401,
USA.
(3)Vermont Center for Children, Youth, and Families, University of Vermont,
Burlington, Vermont 05401, USA.
(4)1] Department of Pediatrics, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont 05401,
USA [2] Department of Psychology, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont
05401, USA.
(5)1] Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, INSERM CEA Unit 
1000 "Imaging &Psychiatry", University Paris Sud, 91400 Orsay, France [2]
Department of Psychiatry, Orsay Hospital, 4 place du General Leclerc, 91400
Orsay, France.
(6)Department of Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience, Central Institute of Mental
Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 68159 Mannheim, Germany.
(7)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London SE5 8AF, UK.
(8)Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(9)1] Department of Systems Neuroscience, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg Eppendorf,
20246 Hamburg, Germany [2] Department of Psychology, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(10)1] Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London SE5 8AF, UK [2]
Department of Psychiatry, Université de Montreal, CHU Ste Justine Hospital,
Montreal H3T 1C5, Canada.
(11)1] Department of Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience, Central Institute of
Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 68159 Mannheim,
Germany [2] Department of Addictive Behaviour and Addiction Medicine, Heidelberg 
University, 68159 Mannheim, Germany.
(12)14 CEA, DSV, I2BM, Neurospin bat 145, 91191 Gif-Sur-Yvette, France.
(13)1] Department of Systems Neuroscience, Universitätsklinikum Hamburg
Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany [2] Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy,
Campus Charité Mitte, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin 10117, Germany.
(14)Department of Psychiatry and Neuroimaging Center, Technische Universität
Dresden, 01062 Dresden, Germany.
(15)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7
2RD, UK.
(16)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Campus Charité Mitte,
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin 10117, Germany.
(17)Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB), 10587 Berlin, Germany.
(18)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.
(19)1] Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, INSERM CEA Unit
1000 "Imaging &Psychiatry", University Paris Sud, 91400 Orsay, France [2] AP-HP
Department of Adolescent Psychopathology and Medicine, Maison de Solenn,
University Paris Descartes, 75006 Paris, France.
(20)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont
05401, USA [2] Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of Vermont, Burlington, 
Vermont 05401, USA.
(21)1] Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Campus Charité Mitte,
Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin 10117, Germany [2] AP-HP Department of
Adolescent Psychopathology and Medicine, Maison de Solenn, University Paris
Descartes, 75006 Paris, France.
(22)1] Rotman Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5R
0A3, Canada [2] Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, H3A 2B4,
Canada.
(23)The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5G
0A4, Canada.
(24)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1TN, UK.
(25)1] Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London SE5 8AF, UK [2] MRC
Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry (SGDP) Centre, London, London WC2R
2LS, UK.
(26)1] Department of Psychiatry, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont
05401, USA [2] Department of Psychology, University of Vermont, Burlington,
Vermont 05401, USA [3] Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 
2, Ireland.

A comprehensive account of the causes of alcohol misuse must accommodate
individual differences in biology, psychology and environment, and must
disentangle cause and effect. Animal models can demonstrate the effects of
neurotoxic substances; however, they provide limited insight into the
psycho-social and higher cognitive factors involved in the initiation of
substance use and progression to misuse. One can search for pre-existing risk
factors by testing for endophenotypic biomarkers in non-using relatives; however,
these relatives may have personality or neural resilience factors that protect
them from developing dependence. A longitudinal study has potential to identify
predictors of adolescent substance misuse, particularly if it can incorporate a
wide range of potential causal factors, both proximal and distal, and their
influence on numerous social, psychological and biological mechanisms. Here we
apply machine learning to a wide range of data from a large sample of adolescents
(n = 692) to generate models of current and future adolescent alcohol misuse that
incorporate brain structure and function, individual personality and cognitive
differences, environmental factors (including gestational cigarette and alcohol
exposure), life experiences, and candidate genes. These models were accurate and 
generalized to novel data, and point to life experiences, neurobiological
differences and personality as important antecedents of binge drinking. By
identifying the vulnerability factors underlying individual differences in
alcohol misuse, these models shed light on the aetiology of alcohol misuse and
suggest targets for prevention.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13402 
PMCID: PMC4486207
PMID: 25043041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):166-170. doi: 10.1038/nature13567. Epub 2014 Jun
29.

Three-dimensional structure of human γ-secretase.

Lu P(#)(1)(2), Bai XC(#)(3), Ma D(#)(1)(2), Xie T(1)(2), Yan C(4)(2), Sun
L(1)(2), Yang G(4)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2), Zhou R(1)(2), Scheres SHW(3), Shi Y(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, School of Life
Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(2)Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences, Center for Structural Biology,
School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.
(3)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge
CB2 0QH, UK.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, School of
Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Cell. 2014 Jul 17;158(2):247-9.

The γ-secretase complex, comprising presenilin 1 (PS1), PEN-2, APH-1 and
nicastrin, is a membrane-embedded protease that controls a number of important
cellular functions through substrate cleavage. Aberrant cleavage of the amyloid
precursor protein (APP) results in aggregation of amyloid-β, which accumulates in
the brain and consequently causes Alzheimer's disease. Here we report the
three-dimensional structure of an intact human γ-secretase complex at 4.5 Å
resolution, determined by cryo-electron-microscopy single-particle analysis. The 
γ-secretase complex comprises a horseshoe-shaped transmembrane domain, which
contains 19 transmembrane segments (TMs), and a large extracellular domain (ECD) 
from nicastrin, which sits immediately above the hollow space formed by the TM
horseshoe. Intriguingly, nicastrin ECD is structurally similar to a large family 
of peptidases exemplified by the glutamate carboxypeptidase PSMA. This structure 
serves as an important basis for understanding the functional mechanisms of the
γ-secretase complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13567 
PMCID: PMC4134323
PMID: 25043039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13380. Epub 2014 Jun 29.

Histone H4 tail mediates allosteric regulation of nucleosome remodelling by
linker DNA.

Hwang WL(1), Deindl S(2), Harada BT(3), Zhuang X(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Graduate Program in Biophysics, Harvard University, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Harvard/MIT MD-PhD Program, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4].
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3].
(3)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Graduate Program in Biophysics, Harvard University, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(4)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Department of
Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2014 Aug 7;55(3):345-6.

Imitation switch (ISWI)-family remodelling enzymes regulate access to genomic DNA
by mobilizing nucleosomes. These ATP-dependent chromatin remodellers promote
heterochromatin formation and transcriptional silencing by generating regularly
spaced nucleosome arrays. The nucleosome-spacing activity arises from the
dependence of nucleosome translocation on the length of extranucleosomal linker
DNA, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here we study nucleosome
remodelling by human ATP-dependent chromatin assembly and remodelling factor
(ACF), an ISWI enzyme comprising a catalytic subunit, Snf2h, and an accessory
subunit, Acf1 (refs 2, 11 - 13). We find that ACF senses linker DNA length
through an interplay between its accessory and catalytic subunits mediated by the
histone H4 tail of the nucleosome. Mutation of AutoN, an auto-inhibitory domain
within Snf2h that bears sequence homology to the H4 tail, abolishes the
linker-length sensitivity in remodelling. Addition of exogenous H4-tail peptide
or deletion of the nucleosomal H4 tail also diminishes the linker-length
sensitivity. Moreover, Acf1 binds both the H4-tail peptide and DNA in an amino
(N)-terminal domain dependent manner, and in the ACF-bound nucleosome,
lengthening the linker DNA reduces the Acf1-H4 tail proximity. Deletion of the
N-terminal portion of Acf1 (or its homologue in yeast) abolishes linker-length
sensitivity in remodelling and leads to severe growth defects in vivo. Taken
together, our results suggest a mechanism for nucleosome spacing where linker DNA
sensing by Acf1 is allosterically transmitted to Snf2h through the H4 tail of the
nucleosome. For nucleosomes with short linker DNA, Acf1 preferentially binds to
the H4 tail, allowing AutoN to inhibit the ATPase activity of Snf2h. As the
linker DNA lengthens, Acf1 shifts its binding preference to the linker DNA,
freeing the H4 tail to compete AutoN off the ATPase and thereby activating ACF.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13380 
PMCID: PMC4134374
PMID: 25043036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):194-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13408. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Altitude adaptation in Tibetans caused by introgression of Denisovan-like DNA.

Huerta-Sánchez E(1), Jin X(2), Asan(3), Bianba Z(4), Peter BM(5), Vinckenbosch
N(5), Liang Y(6), Yi X(6), He M(7), Somel M(8), Ni P(9), Wang B(9), Ou X(9),
Huasang(9), Luosang J(9), Cuo ZX(10), Li K(11), Gao G(12), Yin Y(9), Wang W(9),
Zhang X(13), Xu X(9), Yang H(14), Li Y(9), Wang J(15), Wang J(16), Nielsen R(17).

Author information: 
(1)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Department of Integrative Biology,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720 USA [3] School of Natural
Sciences, University of California, Merced, California 95343 USA [4].
(2)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] School of Bioscience and
Bioengineering, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China
[3].
(3)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Binhai Genomics Institute,
BGI-Tianjin, Tianjin 300308, China [3] Tianjin Translational Genomics Center,
BGI-Tianjin, Tianjin 300308, China [4].
(4)1] The People's Hospital of Lhasa, Lhasa 850000, China [2].
(5)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720 USA.
(6)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Binhai Genomics Institute,
BGI-Tianjin, Tianjin 300308, China [3] Tianjin Translational Genomics Center,
BGI-Tianjin, Tianjin 300308, China.
(7)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Bioinformatics and Computational
Biology Program, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA.
(8)Department of Biological Sciences, Middle East Technical University, 06800
Ankara, Turkey.
(9)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.
(10)The Second People's Hospital of Tibet Autonomous Region, Lhasa 850000, China.
(11)The People's Hospital of the Tibet Autonomous Region, Lhasa 850000, China.
(12)The hospital of XiShuangBanNa Dai Nationalities, Autonomous Jinghong, 666100 
Yunnan, China.
(13)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] The Guangdong Enterprise Key
Laboratory of Human Disease Genomics, BGI-Shenzhen, 518083 Shenzhen, China [3]
Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Transomics Biotechnologies, BGI-Shenzhen, 518083
Shenzhen, China.
(14)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Princess Al Jawhara Center of
Excellence in the Research of Hereditary Disorders, King Abdulaziz University,
Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia [3] James D. Watson Institute of Genome Science,
310008 Hangzhou, China.
(15)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] James D. Watson Institute of
Genome Science, 310008 Hangzhou, China.
(16)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Princess Al Jawhara Center of
Excellence in the Research of Hereditary Disorders, King Abdulaziz University,
Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia [3] Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
Ole MaaløesVej 5, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark [4] Macau University of Science and
Technology, AvenidaWai long, Taipa, Macau 999078, China [5] Department of
Medicine, University of Hong Kong 999077, Hong Kong.
(17)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] Department of Integrative
Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720 USA [3] Department 
of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [4]
Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Sep 22;24(18):R845-8.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Sep;15(9):573.

As modern humans migrated out of Africa, they encountered many new environmental 
conditions, including greater temperature extremes, different pathogens and
higher altitudes. These diverse environments are likely to have acted as agents
of natural selection and to have led to local adaptations. One of the most
celebrated examples in humans is the adaptation of Tibetans to the hypoxic
environment of the high-altitude Tibetan plateau. A hypoxia pathway gene, EPAS1, 
was previously identified as having the most extreme signature of positive
selection in Tibetans, and was shown to be associated with differences in
haemoglobin concentration at high altitude. Re-sequencing the region around EPAS1
in 40 Tibetan and 40 Han individuals, we find that this gene has a highly unusual
haplotype structure that can only be convincingly explained by introgression of
DNA from Denisovan or Denisovan-related individuals into humans. Scanning a
larger set of worldwide populations, we find that the selected haplotype is only 
found in Denisovans and in Tibetans, and at very low frequency among Han Chinese.
Furthermore, the length of the haplotype, and the fact that it is not found in
any other populations, makes it unlikely that the haplotype sharing between
Tibetans and Denisovans was caused by incomplete ancestral lineage sorting rather
than introgression. Our findings illustrate that admixture with other hominin
species has provided genetic variation that helped humans to adapt to new
environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13408 
PMCID: PMC4134395
PMID: 25043035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):218-222. doi: 10.1038/nature13430. Epub 2014 Jun
22.

Visualization of arrestin recruitment by a G-protein-coupled receptor.

Shukla AK(#)(1), Westfield GH(#)(2), Xiao K(#)(1), Reis RI(1), Huang LY(1),
Tripathi-Shukla P(1), Qian J(1), Li S(3), Blanc A(1), Oleskie AN(2), Dosey AM(2),
Su M(2), Liang CR(4), Gu LL(4), Shan JM(4), Chen X(4), Hanna R(5), Choi M(6), Yao
XJ(1), Klink BU(1), Kahsai AW(1), Sidhu SS(5), Koide S(7), Penczek PA(8),
Kossiakoff AA(7), Woods VL Jr(3), Kobilka BK(9), Skiniotis G(2), Lefkowitz
RJ(1)(6)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina
27710, USA.
(2)Life Sciences Institute and Department of Biological Chemistry, University of 
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA
92093, USA.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical & Life Sciences, Changzhou University, Changzhou,
Jiangsu 213164, China.
(5)Terrence Donnelly Centre for Cellular and Biomolecular Research, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.
(7)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, Houston, TX 77054, USA.
(9)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University School of
Medicine, 279 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(10)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham,
North Carolina 27710, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are critically regulated by β-arrestins,
which not only desensitize G-protein signalling but also initiate a
G-protein-independent wave of signalling. A recent surge of structural data on a 
number of GPCRs, including the β2 adrenergic receptor (β2AR)-G-protein complex,
has provided novel insights into the structural basis of receptor activation.
However, complementary information has been lacking on the recruitment of
β-arrestins to activated GPCRs, primarily owing to challenges in obtaining stable
receptor-β-arrestin complexes for structural studies. Here we devised a strategy 
for forming and purifying a functional human β2AR-β-arrestin-1 complex that
allowed us to visualize its architecture by single-particle negative-stain
electron microscopy and to characterize the interactions between β2AR and
β-arrestin 1 using hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and
chemical crosslinking. Electron microscopy two-dimensional averages and
three-dimensional reconstructions reveal bimodal binding of β-arrestin 1 to the
β2AR, involving two separate sets of interactions, one with the phosphorylated
carboxy terminus of the receptor and the other with its seven-transmembrane core.
Areas of reduced HDX together with identification of crosslinked residues suggest
engagement of the finger loop of β-arrestin 1 with the seven-transmembrane core
of the receptor. In contrast, focal areas of raised HDX levels indicate regions
of increased dynamics in both the N and C domains of β-arrestin 1 when coupled to
the β2AR. A molecular model of the β2AR-β-arrestin signalling complex was made by
docking activated β-arrestin 1 and β2AR crystal structures into the electron
microscopy map densities with constraints provided by HDX-MS and crosslinking,
allowing us to obtain valuable insights into the overall architecture of a
receptor-arrestin complex. The dynamic and structural information presented here 
provides a framework for better understanding the basis of GPCR regulation by
arrestins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13430 
PMCID: PMC4134437
PMID: 25043026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):190-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13425. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

A common Greenlandic TBC1D4 variant confers muscle insulin resistance and type 2 
diabetes.

Moltke I(1), Grarup N(2), Jørgensen ME(3), Bjerregaard P(4), Treebak JT(5),
Fumagalli M(6), Korneliussen TS(7), Andersen MA(5), Nielsen TS(5), Krarup NT(8), 
Gjesing AP(8), Zierath JR(9), Linneberg A(10), Wu X(11), Sun G(11), Jin X(11),
Al-Aama J(12), Wang J(13), Borch-Johnsen K(14), Pedersen O(8), Nielsen R(15),
Albrechtsen A(16), Hansen T(17).

Author information: 
(1)1] The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
2200 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA [3].
(2)1] The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Section of
Metabolic Genetics, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark [2].
(3)Steno Diabetes Center, 2820 Gentofte, Denmark.
(4)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 1353
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Section of
Integrative Physiology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(7)Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, 1350 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Section of
Metabolic Genetics, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(9)1] The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Section of
Integrative Physiology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Department of Molecular Medicine and
Surgery, Karolinska Institute, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)Research Centre for Prevention and Health, Glostrup University Hospital, 2600
Glostrup, Denmark.
(11)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China.
(12)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [2] The Department of Genetic
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Princess Al Jawhara Albrahim Center of
Excellence in the Research of Hereditary Disorders, King Abdulaziz University,
Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(13)1] The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Section
of Metabolic Genetics, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, China [3]
The Department of Genetic Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Princess Al Jawhara
Albrahim Center of Excellence in the Research of Hereditary Disorders, King
Abdulaziz University, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia [4] Department of Biology,
University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen, Denmark [5] Macau University of
Science and Technology, Macau 999078, China.
(14)Holbaek Hospital, 4300 Holbaek, Denmark.
(15)1] Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Department of Statistics, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(16)The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(17)1] The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, Section
of Metabolic Genetics, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of
Copenhagen, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Faculty of Health Sciences, University
of Southern Denmark, 5000 Odense, Denmark.

The Greenlandic population, a small and historically isolated founder population 
comprising about 57,000 inhabitants, has experienced a dramatic increase in type 
2 diabetes (T2D) prevalence during the past 25 years. Motivated by this, we
performed association mapping of T2D-related quantitative traits in up to 2,575
Greenlandic individuals without known diabetes. Using array-based genotyping and 
exome sequencing, we discovered a nonsense p.Arg684Ter variant (in which arginine
is replaced by a termination codon) in the gene TBC1D4 with an allele frequency
of 17%. Here we show that homozygous carriers of this variant have markedly
higher concentrations of plasma glucose (β = 3.8 mmol l(-1), P = 2.5 × 10(-35))
and serum insulin (β = 165 pmol l(-1), P = 1.5 × 10(-20)) 2 hours after an oral
glucose load compared with individuals with other genotypes (both non-carriers
and heterozygous carriers). Furthermore, homozygous carriers have marginally
lower concentrations of fasting plasma glucose (β = -0.18 mmol l(-1), P =
1.1 × 10(-6)) and fasting serum insulin (β = -8.3 pmol l(-1), P = 0.0014), and
their T2D risk is markedly increased (odds ratio (OR) = 10.3, P = 1.6 × 10(-24)).
Heterozygous carriers have a moderately higher plasma glucose concentration 2
hours after an oral glucose load than non-carriers (β = 0.43 mmol l(-1), P =
5.3 × 10(-5)). Analyses of skeletal muscle biopsies showed lower messenger RNA
and protein levels of the long isoform of TBC1D4, and lower muscle protein levels
of the glucose transporter GLUT4, with increasing number of p.Arg684Ter alleles. 
These findings are concomitant with a severely decreased insulin-stimulated
glucose uptake in muscle, leading to postprandial hyperglycaemia, impaired
glucose tolerance and T2D. The observed effect sizes are several times larger
than any previous findings in large-scale genome-wide association studies of
these traits and constitute further proof of the value of conducting genetic
association studies outside the traditional setting of large homogeneous
populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13425 
PMID: 25043022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):208-212. doi: 10.1038/nature13401. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

DENR-MCT-1 promotes translation re-initiation downstream of uORFs to control
tissue growth.

Schleich S(1)(2), Strassburger K(#)(1), Janiesch PC(#)(2), Koledachkina T(2),
Miller KK(2), Haneke K(1)(3), Cheng YS(1), Kuechler K(2), Stoecklin G(1)(3),
Duncan KE(2), Teleman AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Center for Molecular Neurobiology (ZMNH), University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Falkenried 94, 20251 Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Zentrum für Molekulare Biologie der Universität Heidelberg (ZMBH), DKFZ-ZMBH
Alliance, Heidelberg, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Dec;24(12):1383-4.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Aug;15(8):498.

During cap-dependent eukaryotic translation initiation, ribosomes scan messenger 
RNA from the 5' end to the first AUG start codon with favourable sequence
context. For many mRNAs this AUG belongs to a short upstream open reading frame
(uORF), and translation of the main downstream ORF requires re-initiation, an
incompletely understood process. Re-initiation is thought to involve the same
factors as standard initiation. It is unknown whether any factors specifically
affect translation re-initiation without affecting standard cap-dependent
translation. Here we uncover the non-canonical initiation factors density
regulated protein (DENR) and multiple copies in T-cell lymphoma-1 (MCT-1; also
called MCTS1 in humans) as the first selective regulators of eukaryotic
re-initiation. mRNAs containing upstream ORFs with strong Kozak sequences
selectively require DENR-MCT-1 for their proper translation, yielding a novel
class of mRNAs that can be co-regulated and that is enriched for regulatory
proteins such as oncogenic kinases. Collectively, our data reveal that cells have
a previously unappreciated translational control system with a key role in
supporting proliferation and tissue growth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13401 
PMCID: PMC4134322
PMID: 25043021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):161-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13566. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Crystal structure of the human COP9 signalosome.

Lingaraju GM(1), Bunker RD(1), Cavadini S(2), Hess D(3), Hassiepen U(4), Renatus 
M(4), Fischer ES(2), Thomä NH(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] University of Basel, Petersplatz 10, 4003 Basel,
Switzerland [3].
(2)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] University of Basel, Petersplatz 10, 4003 Basel,
Switzerland.
(3)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66, 4058
Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Novartis Pharma AG, Institutes for Biomedical Research, Novartis Campus, 4056 
Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):145-6.

Ubiquitination is a crucial cellular signalling process, and is controlled on
multiple levels. Cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases (CRLs) are regulated by the
eight-subunit COP9 signalosome (CSN). CSN inactivates CRLs by removing their
covalently attached activator, NEDD8. NEDD8 cleavage by CSN is catalysed by CSN5,
a Zn(2+)-dependent isopeptidase that is inactive in isolation. Here we present
the crystal structure of the entire ∼350-kDa human CSN holoenzyme at 3.8 Å
resolution, detailing the molecular architecture of the complex. CSN has two
organizational centres: a horseshoe-shaped ring created by its six proteasome
lid-CSN-initiation factor 3 (PCI) domain proteins, and a large bundle formed by
the carboxy-terminal α-helices of every subunit. CSN5 and its dimerization
partner, CSN6, are intricately embedded at the core of the helical bundle. In the
substrate-free holoenzyme, CSN5 is autoinhibited, which precludes access to the
active site. We find that neddylated CRL binding to CSN is sensed by CSN4, and
communicated to CSN5 with the assistance of CSN6, resulting in activation of the 
deneddylase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13566 
PMID: 25043011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Nature. 2014 Aug 14;512(7513):203-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13410. Epub 2014 Jun 15.

Historical contingency and its biophysical basis in glucocorticoid receptor
evolution.

Harms MJ(1), Thornton JW(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Molecular Biology and Department of Chemistry &Biochemistry,
University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97403, USA [2] Departments of Human Genetics
and Ecology &Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(2)1] Departments of Human Genetics and Ecology &Evolution, University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA [2] Institute of Ecology and Evolution,
University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97403, USA.

Understanding how chance historical events shape evolutionary processes is a
central goal of evolutionary biology. Direct insights into the extent and causes 
of evolutionary contingency have been limited to experimental systems, because it
is difficult to know what happened in the deep past and to characterize other
paths that evolution could have followed. Here we combine ancestral protein
reconstruction, directed evolution and biophysical analysis to explore
alternative 'might-have-been' trajectories during the ancient evolution of a
novel protein function. We previously found that the evolution of cortisol
specificity in the ancestral glucocorticoid receptor (GR) was contingent on
permissive substitutions, which had no apparent effect on receptor function but
were necessary for GR to tolerate the large-effect mutations that caused the
shift in specificity. Here we show that alternative mutations that could have
permitted the historical function-switching substitutions are extremely rare in
the ensemble of genotypes accessible to the ancestral GR. In a library of
thousands of variants of the ancestral protein, we recovered historical
permissive substitutions but no alternative permissive genotypes. Using
biophysical analysis, we found that permissive mutations must satisfy at least
three physical requirements--they must stabilize specific local elements of the
protein structure, maintain the correct energetic balance between functional
conformations, and be compatible with the ancestral and derived structures--thus 
revealing why permissive mutations are rare. These findings demonstrate that GR
evolution depended strongly on improbable, non-deterministic events, and this
contingency arose from intrinsic biophysical properties of the protein.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13410 
PMCID: PMC4447330
PMID: 24930765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):65-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13563.

A global ocean inventory of anthropogenic mercury based on water column
measurements.

Lamborg CH(1), Hammerschmidt CR(2), Bowman KL(2), Swarr GJ(1), Munson KM(1),
Ohnemus DC(1), Lam PJ(1), Heimbürger LE(3), Rijkenberg MJ(4), Saito MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
(2)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Wright State University,
Dayton, Ohio 45435, USA.
(3)Observatoire Midi-Pyrénées, Laboratoire Géosciences Environnement Toulouse,
CNRS/IRD/Université Paul-Sabatier, 14, avenue Édouard Belin, 31400 Toulouse,
France.
(4)Department of Biological Oceanography, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea
Research, Den Burg, 1790 AB, The Netherlands.

Mercury is a toxic, bioaccumulating trace metal whose emissions to the
environment have increased significantly as a result of anthropogenic activities 
such as mining and fossil fuel combustion. Several recent models have estimated
that these emissions have increased the oceanic mercury inventory by
36-1,313 million moles since the 1500s. Such predictions have remained largely
untested owing to a lack of appropriate historical data and natural archives.
Here we report oceanographic measurements of total dissolved mercury and related 
parameters from several recent expeditions to the Atlantic, Pacific, Southern and
Arctic oceans. We find that deep North Atlantic waters and most intermediate
waters are anomalously enriched in mercury relative to the deep waters of the
South Atlantic, Southern and Pacific oceans, probably as a result of the
incorporation of anthropogenic mercury. We estimate the total amount of
anthropogenic mercury present in the global ocean to be 290 ± 80 million moles,
with almost two-thirds residing in water shallower than a thousand metres. Our
findings suggest that anthropogenic perturbations to the global mercury cycle
have led to an approximately 150 per cent increase in the amount of mercury in
thermocline waters and have tripled the mercury content of surface waters
compared to pre-anthropogenic conditions. This information may aid our
understanding of the processes and the depths at which inorganic mercury species 
are converted into toxic methyl mercury and subsequently bioaccumulated in marine
food webs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13563 
PMID: 25100482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):61-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13607.

Controlled synthesis of single-chirality carbon nanotubes.

Sanchez-Valencia JR(1), Dienel T(2), Gröning O(2), Shorubalko I(3), Mueller A(4),
Jansen M(5), Amsharov K(4), Ruffieux P(2), Fasel R(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] nanotech@surfaces Laboratory, Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for
Materials Science and Technology, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland [2] Nanotechnology 
on Surfaces Laboratory, Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales de Sevilla (CSIC-US), 
Avenida Américo Vespucio 49, E-41092 Sevilla, Spain (J.R.S.-V.); BASF SE, GVM/I-L
544, 67056 Ludwigshafen, Germany (A.M.); University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Institut 
für Organische Chemie II, Henkestrasse 42, 91054 Erlangen, Germany (K.A.).
(2)nanotech@surfaces Laboratory, Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials
Science and Technology, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland.
(3)Laboratory for Reliability Science and Technology, Empa, Swiss Federal
Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland.
(4)1] Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research, Heisenbergstrasse 1, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany [2] Nanotechnology on Surfaces Laboratory, Instituto de
Ciencia de Materiales de Sevilla (CSIC-US), Avenida Américo Vespucio 49, E-41092 
Sevilla, Spain (J.R.S.-V.); BASF SE, GVM/I-L 544, 67056 Ludwigshafen, Germany
(A.M.); University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Institut für Organische Chemie II,
Henkestrasse 42, 91054 Erlangen, Germany (K.A.).
(5)Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research, Heisenbergstrasse 1, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany.
(6)1] nanotech@surfaces Laboratory, Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for
Materials Science and Technology, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland [2] Department of
Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bern, Freiestrasse 3, 3012 Bern,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):30-1.

Over the past two decades, single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) have received 
much attention because their extraordinary properties are promising for numerous 
applications. Many of these properties depend sensitively on SWCNT structure,
which is characterized by the chiral index (n,m) that denotes the length and
orientation of the circumferential vector in the hexagonal carbon lattice.
Electronic properties are particularly strongly affected, with subtle structural 
changes switching tubes from metallic to semiconducting with various bandgaps.
Monodisperse 'single-chirality' (that is, with a single (n,m) index) SWCNTs are
thus needed to fully exploit their technological potential. Controlled synthesis 
through catalyst engineering, end-cap engineering or cloning strategies, and also
tube sorting based on chromatography, density-gradient centrifugation,
electrophoresis and other techniques, have delivered SWCNT samples with narrow
distributions of tube diameter and a large fraction of a predetermined tube type.
But an effective pathway to truly monodisperse SWCNTs remains elusive. The use of
template molecules to unambiguously dictate the diameter and chirality of the
resulting nanotube holds great promise in this regard, but has hitherto had only 
limited practical success. Here we show that this bottom-up strategy can produce 
targeted nanotubes: we convert molecular precursors into ultrashort singly capped
(6,6) 'armchair' nanotube seeds using surface-catalysed cyclodehydrogenation on a
platinum (111) surface, and then elongate these during a subsequent growth phase 
to produce single-chirality and essentially defect-free SWCNTs with lengths up to
a few hundred nanometres. We expect that our on-surface synthesis approach will
provide a route to nanotube-based materials with highly optimized properties for 
applications such as light detectors, photovoltaics, field-effect transistors and
sensors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13607 
PMID: 25100481 


430. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):57-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13565.

Tunable spin-spin interactions and entanglement of ions in separate potential
wells.

Wilson AC(1), Colombe Y(1), Brown KR(2), Knill E(1), Leibfried D(1), Wineland
DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Standards and Technology, 325 Broadway, Boulder,
Colorado 80305, USA.
(2)Georgia Tech Research Institute, 400 10th Street Northwest, Atlanta, Georgia
30332, USA.

Quantum simulation--the use of one quantum system to simulate a less controllable
one--may provide an understanding of the many quantum systems which cannot be
modelled using classical computers. Considerable progress in control and
manipulation has been achieved for various quantum systems, but one of the
remaining challenges is the implementation of scalable devices. In this regard,
individual ions trapped in separate tunable potential wells are promising. Here
we implement the basic features of this approach and demonstrate deterministic
tuning of the Coulomb interaction between two ions, independently controlling
their local wells. The scheme is suitable for emulating a range of spin-spin
interactions, but to characterize the performance of our set-up we select one
that entangles the internal states of the two ions with a fidelity of 0.82(1)
(the digit in parentheses shows the standard error of the mean). Extension of
this building block to a two-dimensional network, which is possible using
ion-trap microfabrication processes, may provide a new quantum simulator
architecture with broad flexibility in designing and scaling the arrangement of
ions and their mutual interactions. To perform useful quantum simulations,
including those of condensed-matter phenomena such as the fractional quantum Hall
effect, an array of tens of ions might be sufficient.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13565 
PMID: 25100480 


431. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):54-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13615.

A luminous, blue progenitor system for the type Iax supernova 2012Z.

McCully C(1), Jha SW(1), Foley RJ(2), Bildsten L(3), Fong WF(4), Kirshner RP(4), 
Marion GH(5), Riess AG(6), Stritzinger MD(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rutgers, the State University of New
Jersey, 136 Frelinghuysen Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.
(2)1] Astronomy Department, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1002 West
Green Street, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2] Department of Physics, University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1110 West Green Street, Urbana, Illinois 61801, 
USA.
(3)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 
93106, USA [2] Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of California,
Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.
(4)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(5)1] Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Astronomy, University of Texas at
Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(6)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 North
Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA [2] Space Telescope Science
Institute, 3700 San Martin Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.
(7)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 120,
DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):34-5.

Type Iax supernovae are stellar explosions that are spectroscopically similar to 
some type Ia supernovae at the time of maximum light emission, except with lower 
ejecta velocities. They are also distinguished by lower luminosities. At late
times, their spectroscopic properties diverge from those of other supernovae, but
their composition (dominated by iron-group and intermediate-mass elements)
suggests a physical connection to normal type Ia supernovae. Supernovae of type
Iax are not rare; they occur at a rate between 5 and 30 per cent of the normal
type Ia rate. The leading models for type Iax supernovae are thermonuclear
explosions of accreting carbon-oxygen white dwarfs that do not completely unbind 
the star, implying that they are 'less successful' versions of normal type Ia
supernovae, where complete stellar disruption is observed. Here we report the
detection of the luminous, blue progenitor system of the type Iax SN 2012Z in
deep pre-explosion imaging. The progenitor system's luminosity, colours,
environment and similarity to the progenitor of the Galactic helium nova V445
Puppis suggest that SN 2012Z was the explosion of a white dwarf accreting
material from a helium-star companion. Observations over the next few years,
after SN 2012Z has faded, will either confirm this hypothesis or perhaps show
that this supernova was actually the explosive death of a massive star.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13615 
PMID: 25100479 


432. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):44-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13613. Epub 2014 Jul 30.

Replaying evolutionary transitions from the dental fossil record.

Harjunmaa E(1), Seidel K(2), Häkkinen T(1), Renvoisé E(1), Corfe IJ(1), Kallonen 
A(3), Zhang ZQ(4), Evans AR(5), Mikkola ML(1), Salazar-Ciudad I(6), Klein OD(7), 
Jernvall J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Biology Program, Institute of Biotechnology, University of
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.
(2)1] Program in Craniofacial and Mesenchymal Biology, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94114, USA [2] Department of Orofacial
Sciences, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California
94114, USA.
(3)Division of Materials Physics, Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, 
P.O. Box 64, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Key Laboratory of Evolutionary Systematics of Vertebrates, Institute of
Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100044, China.
(5)1] School of Biological Sciences, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia 
[2] Geosciences, Museum Victoria, GPO Box 666, Melbourne, Victoria 3001,
Australia.
(6)1] Developmental Biology Program, Institute of Biotechnology, University of
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland [2] Genomics, Bioinformatics
and Evolution Group. Department de Genètica i Microbiologia, Universitat Autònoma
de Barcelona, Cerdanyola del Vallès 08193, Spain.
(7)1] Program in Craniofacial and Mesenchymal Biology, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94114, USA [2] Department of Orofacial
Sciences, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California
94114, USA [3] Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco,
San Francisco, California 94114, USA [4] Institute for Human Genetics, University
of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94114, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):36-7.

The evolutionary relationships of extinct species are ascertained primarily
through the analysis of morphological characters. Character inter-dependencies
can have a substantial effect on evolutionary interpretations, but the
developmental underpinnings of character inter-dependence remain obscure because 
experiments frequently do not provide detailed resolution of morphological
characters. Here we show experimentally and computationally how gradual
modification of development differentially affects characters in the mouse
dentition. We found that intermediate phenotypes could be produced by gradually
adding ectodysplasin A (EDA) protein in culture to tooth explants carrying a null
mutation in the tooth-patterning gene Eda. By identifying development-based
character inter-dependencies, we show how to predict morphological patterns of
teeth among mammalian species. Finally, in vivo inhibition of sonic hedgehog
signalling in Eda null teeth enabled us to reproduce characters deep in the
rodent ancestry. Taken together, evolutionarily informative transitions can be
experimentally reproduced, thereby providing development-based expectations for
character-state transitions used in evolutionary studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13613 
PMCID: PMC4252015
PMID: 25079326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):87-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13602. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Putative cis-regulatory drivers in colorectal cancer.

Ongen H(1), Andersen CL(2), Bramsen JB(2), Oster B(2), Rasmussen MH(2), Ferreira 
PG(1), Sandoval J(3), Vidal E(3), Whiffin N(4), Planchon A(1), Padioleau I(1),
Bielser D(1), Romano L(1), Tomlinson I(5), Houlston RS(4), Esteller M(6), Orntoft
TF(2), Dermitzakis ET(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva
Medical School, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] Institute for Genetics and Genomics 
in Geneva (iGE3), University of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [3] Swiss
Institute of Bioinformatics, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, 8000 Aarhus,
Denmark.
(3)Cancer Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC), Bellvitge Biomedical Research
Institute (IDIBELL), 08908 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(4)Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, The Institute of Cancer Research,
Sutton, Surrey SM2 5NG, UK.
(5)Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine and Oxford NIHR Comprehensive
Biomedical Research Centre, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt
Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.
(6)1] Cancer Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC), Bellvitge Biomedical
Research Institute (IDIBELL), 08908 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain [2] Department of
Physiological Sciences II, School of Medicine, University of Barcelona, 08007
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain [3] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats
(ICREA), 08010 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Sep;15(9):574-5.
    Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):31-2.

The cis-regulatory effects responsible for cancer development have not been as
extensively studied as the perturbations of the protein coding genome in
tumorigenesis. To better characterize colorectal cancer (CRC) development we
conducted an RNA-sequencing experiment of 103 matched tumour and normal colon
mucosa samples from Danish CRC patients, 90 of which were germline-genotyped. By 
investigating allele-specific expression (ASE) we show that the germline
genotypes remain important determinants of allelic gene expression in tumours.
Using the changes in ASE in matched pairs of samples we discover 71 genes with
excess of somatic cis-regulatory effects in CRC, suggesting a cancer driver role.
We correlate genotypes and gene expression to identify expression quantitative
trait loci (eQTLs) and find 1,693 and 948 eQTLs in normal samples and tumours,
respectively. We estimate that 36% of the tumour eQTLs are exclusive to CRC and
show that this specificity is partially driven by increased expression of
specific transcription factors and changes in methylation patterns. We show that 
tumour-specific eQTLs are more enriched for low CRC genome-wide association study
(GWAS) P values than shared eQTLs, which suggests that some of the GWAS variants 
are tumour specific regulatory variants. Importantly, tumour-specific eQTL genes 
also accumulate more somatic mutations when compared to the shared eQTL genes,
raising the possibility that they constitute germline-derived cancer regulatory
drivers. Collectively the integration of genome and the transcriptome reveals a
substantial number of putative somatic and germline cis-regulatory cancer changes
that may have a role in tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13602 
PMID: 25079323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature13417. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Enhancer loops appear stable during development and are associated with paused
polymerase.

Ghavi-Helm Y(1), Klein FA(2), Pakozdi T(2), Ciglar L(1), Noordermeer D(3), Huber 
W(1), Furlong EE(1).

Author information: 
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Genome Biology Unit, D-69117
Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Genome Biology Unit, D-69117
Heidelberg, Germany [2].
(3)Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, School of Life Sciences, CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland.

Developmental enhancers initiate transcription and are fundamental to our
understanding of developmental networks, evolution and disease. Despite their
importance, the properties governing enhancer-promoter interactions and their
dynamics during embryogenesis remain unclear. At the β-globin locus,
enhancer-promoter interactions appear dynamic and cell-type specific, whereas at 
the HoxD locus they are stable and ubiquitous, being present in tissues where the
target genes are not expressed. The extent to which preformed enhancer-promoter
conformations exist at other, more typical, loci and how transcription is
eventually triggered is unclear. Here we generated a high-resolution map of
enhancer three-dimensional contacts during Drosophila embryogenesis, covering two
developmental stages and tissue contexts, at unprecedented resolution. Although
local regulatory interactions are common, long-range interactions are highly
prevalent within the compact Drosophila genome. Each enhancer contacts multiple
enhancers, and promoters with similar expression, suggesting a role in their
co-regulation. Notably, most interactions appear unchanged between tissue context
and across development, arising before gene activation, and are frequently
associated with paused RNA polymerase. Our results indicate that the general
topology governing enhancer contacts is conserved from flies to humans and
suggest that transcription initiates from preformed enhancer-promoter loops
through release of paused polymerase.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13417 
PMID: 25043061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):39-43. doi: 10.1038/nature13470. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

Convergence of terrestrial plant production across global climate gradients.

Michaletz ST(1), Cheng D(2), Kerkhoff AJ(3), Enquist BJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA.
(2)Key Laboratory of Humid Subtropical Eco-geographical Process, Fujian Normal
University, Ministry of Education, Fuzhou, Fujian Province 350007, China.
(3)Department of Biology, Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio 43022, USA.
(4)1] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA [2] The Santa Fe Institute, USA, 1399 Hyde Park Road, 
Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501, USA [3] The iPlant Collaborative, Thomas W. Keating
Bioresearch Building, 1657 East Helen Street, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA [4]
Aspen Center for Environmental Studies, 100 Puppy Smith Street, Aspen, Colorado
81611, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016;537(7620):293.

Variation in terrestrial net primary production (NPP) with climate is thought to 
originate from a direct influence of temperature and precipitation on plant
metabolism. However, variation in NPP may also result from an indirect influence 
of climate by means of plant age, stand biomass, growing season length and local 
adaptation. To identify the relative importance of direct and indirect climate
effects, we extend metabolic scaling theory to link hypothesized climate
influences with NPP, and assess hypothesized relationships using a global
compilation of ecosystem woody plant biomass and production data. Notably, age
and biomass explained most of the variation in production whereas temperature and
precipitation explained almost none, suggesting that climate indirectly (not
directly) influences production. Furthermore, our theory shows that variation in 
NPP is characterized by a common scaling relationship, suggesting that global
change models can incorporate the mechanisms governing this relationship to
improve predictions of future ecosystem function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13470 
PMID: 25043056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):82-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13311. Epub 2014 Jun 22.

PVT1 dependence in cancer with MYC copy-number increase.

Tseng YY(1), Moriarity BS(2), Gong W(3), Akiyama R(4), Tiwari A(5), Kawakami
H(4), Ronning P(1), Reuland B(1), Guenther K(1), Beadnell TC(6), Essig J(1), Otto
GM(7), O'Sullivan MG(7), Largaespada DA(8), Schwertfeger KL(9), Marahrens Y(10), 
Kawakami Y(11), Bagchi A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University of Minnesota,
Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(2)1] Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University of
Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Masonic Cancer
Center, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA
[3].
(4)1] Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University of
Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Stem Cell
Institute, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455,
USA.
(5)1] Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Center for Bio-Design, Translational Health Science and 
Technology Institute, Gurgaon 122016, India.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, Twin
Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(7)Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA.
(8)1] Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University of
Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Masonic Cancer
Center, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(9)1] Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology,
University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [3].
(10)1] Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University of
Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2].
(11)1] Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University of
Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Stem Cell
Institute, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455,
USA [3].

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Nov;24(11):1284-5.

'Gain' of supernumerary copies of the 8q24.21 chromosomal region has been shown
to be common in many human cancers and is associated with poor prognosis. The
well-characterized myelocytomatosis (MYC) oncogene resides in the 8q24.21 region 
and is consistently co-gained with an adjacent 'gene desert' of approximately
2 megabases that contains the long non-coding RNA gene PVT1, the CCDC26 gene
candidate and the GSDMC gene. Whether low copy-number gain of one or more of
these genes drives neoplasia is not known. Here we use chromosome engineering in 
mice to show that a single extra copy of either the Myc gene or the region
encompassing Pvt1, Ccdc26 and Gsdmc fails to advance cancer measurably, whereas a
single supernumerary segment encompassing all four genes successfully promotes
cancer. Gain of PVT1 long non-coding RNA expression was required for high MYC
protein levels in 8q24-amplified human cancer cells. PVT1 RNA and MYC protein
expression correlated in primary human tumours, and copy number of PVT1 was
co-increased in more than 98% of MYC-copy-increase cancers. Ablation of PVT1 from
MYC-driven colon cancer line HCT116 diminished its tumorigenic potency. As MYC
protein has been refractory to small-molecule inhibition, the dependence of high 
MYC protein levels on PVT1 long non-coding RNA provides a much needed therapeutic
target.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13311 
PMCID: PMC4767149
PMID: 25043044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13382. Epub 2014 Jun 22.

Visualizing the kinetic power stroke that drives proton-coupled zinc(II)
transport.

Gupta S(1), Chai J(2), Cheng J(3), D'Mello R(4), Chance MR(4), Fu D(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Synchrotron Biosciences and Center for Proteomics and
Bioinformatics, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, USA [2]
Berkeley Center for Structural Biology, Physical Biosciences Division, Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(2)Biology Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973,
USA.
(3)Department of Physiology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.
(4)Center for Synchrotron Biosciences and Center for Proteomics and
Bioinformatics, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, USA.
(5)1] Biology Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, 
USA [2] Department of Physiology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.

The proton gradient is a principal energy source for respiration-dependent active
transport, but the structural mechanisms of proton-coupled transport processes
are poorly understood. YiiP is a proton-coupled zinc transporter found in the
cytoplasmic membrane of Escherichia coli. Its transport site receives protons
from water molecules that gain access to its hydrophobic environment and
transduces the energy of an inward proton gradient to drive Zn(II) efflux. This
membrane protein is a well-characterized member of the family of cation diffusion
facilitators that occurs at all phylogenetic levels. Here we show, using
X-ray-mediated hydroxyl radical labelling of YiiP and mass spectrometry, that
Zn(II) binding triggers a highly localized, all-or-nothing change of water
accessibility to the transport site and an adjacent hydrophobic gate. Millisecond
time-resolved dynamics reveal a concerted and reciprocal pattern of accessibility
changes along a transmembrane helix, suggesting a rigid-body helical
re-orientation linked to Zn(II) binding that triggers the closing of the
hydrophobic gate. The gated water access to the transport site enables a
stationary proton gradient to facilitate the conversion of zinc-binding energy to
the kinetic power stroke of a vectorial zinc transport. The kinetic details
provide energetic insights into a proton-coupled active-transport reaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13382 
PMCID: PMC4144069
PMID: 25043033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature13383. Epub 2014 Jun 22.

Neuropathy of haematopoietic stem cell niche is essential for myeloproliferative 
neoplasms.

Arranz L(1), Sánchez-Aguilera A(1), Martín-Pérez D(1), Isern J(1), Langa X(1),
Tzankov A(2), Lundberg P(2), Muntión S(3), Tzeng YS(4), Lai DM(4), Schwaller
J(2), Skoda RC(2), Méndez-Ferrer S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Niche Pathophysiology Group, Centro Nacional de Investigaciones
Cardiovasculares (CNIC), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(2)University Hospital Basel, CH-4031 Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Haematology, IBSAL-Hospital Universitario de Salamanca, 37007
Salamanca, Spain.
(4)National Taiwan University, Taipei 10002, Taiwan.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Oct;24(10):1151-2.

Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are diseases caused by mutations in the
haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) compartment. Most MPN patients have a common
acquired mutation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) gene in HSCs that renders this kinase 
constitutively active, leading to uncontrolled cell expansion. The bone marrow
microenvironment might contribute to the clinical outcomes of this common event. 
We previously showed that bone marrow nestin(+) mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)
innervated by sympathetic nerve fibres regulate normal HSCs. Here we demonstrate 
that abrogation of this regulatory circuit is essential for MPN pathogenesis.
Sympathetic nerve fibres, supporting Schwann cells and nestin(+) MSCs are
consistently reduced in the bone marrow of MPN patients and mice expressing the
human JAK2(V617F) mutation in HSCs. Unexpectedly, MSC reduction is not due to
differentiation but is caused by bone marrow neural damage and Schwann cell death
triggered by interleukin-1β produced by mutant HSCs. In turn, in vivo depletion
of nestin(+) cells or their production of CXCL12 expanded mutant HSC number and
accelerated MPN progression. In contrast, administration of neuroprotective or
sympathomimetic drugs prevented mutant HSC expansion. Treatment with
β3-adrenergic agonists that restored the sympathetic regulation of nestin(+) MSCs
prevented the loss of these cells and blocked MPN progression by indirectly
reducing the number of leukaemic stem cells. Our results demonstrate that
mutant-HSC-driven niche damage critically contributes to disease manifestation in
MPN and identify niche-forming MSCs and their neural regulation as promising
therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13383 
PMID: 25043017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):49-53. doi: 10.1038/nature13527. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Structure of the DDB1-CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase in complex with thalidomide.

Fischer ES(1), Böhm K(1), Lydeard JR(2), Yang H(3), Stadler MB(4), Cavadini S(1),
Nagel J(3), Serluca F(3), Acker V(5), Lingaraju GM(1), Tichkule RB(3), Schebesta 
M(3), Forrester WC(3), Schirle M(3), Hassiepen U(5), Ottl J(5), Hild M(3),
Beckwith RE(3), Harper JW(2), Jenkins JL(3), Thomä NH(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] University of Basel, Petersplatz 10, CH-4003
Basel, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, 250 Massachusetts Avenue,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] University of Basel, Petersplatz 10, CH-4003
Basel, Switzerland [3] Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.
(5)Novartis Pharma AG, Institutes for Biomedical Research, Novartis Campus,
CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland.

In the 1950s, the drug thalidomide, administered as a sedative to pregnant women,
led to the birth of thousands of children with multiple defects. Despite the
teratogenicity of thalidomide and its derivatives lenalidomide and pomalidomide, 
these immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) recently emerged as effective treatments for
multiple myeloma and 5q-deletion-associated dysplasia. IMiDs target the E3
ubiquitin ligase CUL4-RBX1-DDB1-CRBN (known as CRL4(CRBN)) and promote the
ubiquitination of the IKAROS family transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 by
CRL4(CRBN). Here we present crystal structures of the DDB1-CRBN complex bound to 
thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide. The structure establishes that CRBN
is a substrate receptor within CRL4(CRBN) and enantioselectively binds IMiDs.
Using an unbiased screen, we identified the homeobox transcription factor MEIS2
as an endogenous substrate of CRL4(CRBN). Our studies suggest that IMiDs block
endogenous substrates (MEIS2) from binding to CRL4(CRBN) while the ligase complex
is recruiting IKZF1 or IKZF3 for degradation. This dual activity implies that
small molecules can modulate an E3 ubiquitin ligase and thereby upregulate or
downregulate the ubiquitination of proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13527 
PMCID: PMC4423819
PMID: 25043012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):69-73. doi: 10.1038/nature13322. Epub 2014 Jun 29.

Negative regulation of the NLRP3 inflammasome by A20 protects against arthritis.

Vande Walle L(1)(2), Van Opdenbosch N(1)(2), Jacques P(3), Fossoul A(1)(2),
Verheugen E(3), Vogel P(4), Beyaert R(5)(6), Elewaut D(3), Kanneganti TD(4), van 
Loo G(#)(5)(6), Lamkanfi M(#)(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Protein Research, VIB, Ghent, B-9000, Belgium.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Ghent University, Ghent, B-9000, Belgium.
(3)Department of Rheumatology, Ghent University, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(4)Department of Immunology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN
38105, USA.
(5)Inflammation Research Center, VIB, Ghent, B-9052, Belgium.
(6)Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent University, B-9052 Ghent,
Belgium.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2014 Aug;10(8):445.

Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic autoinflammatory disease that affects 1-2% of
the world's population and is characterized by widespread joint inflammation.
Interleukin-1 is an important mediator of cartilage destruction in rheumatic
diseases, but our understanding of the upstream mechanisms leading to production 
of interleukin-1β in rheumatoid arthritis is limited by the absence of suitable
mouse models of the disease in which inflammasomes contribute to pathology.
Myeloid-cell-specific deletion of the rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility gene
A20/Tnfaip3 in mice (A20(myel-KO) mice) triggers a spontaneous erosive
polyarthritis that resembles rheumatoid arthritis in patients. Rheumatoid
arthritis in A20(myel-KO) mice is not rescued by deletion of tumour necrosis
factor receptor 1 (ref. 2). Here we show, however, that it crucially relies on
the Nlrp3 inflammasome and interleukin-1 receptor signalling. Macrophages lacking
A20 have increased basal and lipopolysaccharide-induced expression levels of the 
inflammasome adaptor Nlrp3 and proIL-1β. As a result, A20-deficiency in
macrophages significantly enhances Nlrp3 inflammasome-mediated caspase-1
activation, pyroptosis and interleukin-1β secretion by soluble and crystalline
Nlrp3 stimuli. In contrast, activation of the Nlrc4 and AIM2 inflammasomes is not
altered. Importantly, increased Nlrp3 inflammasome activation contributes to the 
pathology of rheumatoid arthritis in vivo, because deletion of Nlrp3, caspase-1
and the interleukin-1 receptor markedly protects against
rheumatoid-arthritis-associated inflammation and cartilage destruction in
A20(myel-KO) mice. These results reveal A20 as a novel negative regulator of
Nlrp3 inflammasome activation, and describe A20(myel-KO) mice as the first
experimental model to study the role of inflammasomes in the pathology of
rheumatoid arthritis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13322 
PMCID: PMC4126806
PMID: 25043000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):74-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13594. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

Rapid seeding of the viral reservoir prior to SIV viraemia in rhesus monkeys.

Whitney JB(1), Hill AL(2), Sanisetty S(3), Penaloza-MacMaster P(3), Liu J(3),
Shetty M(3), Parenteau L(3), Cabral C(3), Shields J(3), Blackmore S(3), Smith
JY(3), Brinkman AL(3), Peter LE(3), Mathew SI(3), Smith KM(3), Borducchi EN(3),
Rosenbloom DI(2), Lewis MG(4), Hattersley J(5), Li B(5), Hesselgesser J(5),
Geleziunas R(5), Robb ML(6), Kim JH(6), Michael NL(6), Barouch DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Ragon
Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138 USA.
(3)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(4)Bioqual, Rockville, Maryland 20852, USA.
(5)Gilead Sciences, Foster City, California 94404, USA.
(6)US Military HIV Research Program, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research,
Silver Spring, Maryland 20910, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):35-6.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Sep;12(9):594.

The viral reservoir represents a critical challenge for human immunodeficiency
virus type 1 (HIV-1) eradication strategies. However, it remains unclear when and
where the viral reservoir is seeded during acute infection and the extent to
which it is susceptible to early antiretroviral therapy (ART). Here we show that 
the viral reservoir is seeded rapidly after mucosal simian immunodeficiency virus
(SIV) infection of rhesus monkeys and before systemic viraemia. We initiated
suppressive ART in groups of monkeys on days 3, 7, 10 and 14 after intrarectal
SIVMAC251 infection. Treatment with ART on day 3 blocked the emergence of viral
RNA and proviral DNA in peripheral blood and also substantially reduced levels of
proviral DNA in lymph nodes and gastrointestinal mucosa as compared with
treatment at later time points. In addition, treatment on day 3 abrogated the
induction of SIV-specific humoral and cellular immune responses. Nevertheless,
after discontinuation of ART following 24 weeks of fully suppressive therapy,
virus rebounded in all animals, although the monkeys that were treated on day 3
exhibited a delayed viral rebound as compared with those treated on days 7, 10
and 14. The time to viral rebound correlated with total viraemia during acute
infection and with proviral DNA at the time of ART discontinuation. These data
demonstrate that the viral reservoir is seeded rapidly after intrarectal SIV
infection of rhesus monkeys, during the 'eclipse' phase, and before detectable
viraemia. This strikingly early seeding of the refractory viral reservoir raises 
important new challenges for HIV-1 eradication strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13594 
PMCID: PMC4126858
PMID: 25042999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Nature. 2014 Aug 7;512(7512):91-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13395. Epub 2014 Jun 1.

Genome-scale functional characterization of Drosophila developmental enhancers in
vivo.

Kvon EZ(1), Kazmar T(2), Stampfel G(3), Yáñez-Cuna JO(3), Pagani M(2),
Schernhuber K(2), Dickson BJ(1), Stark A(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP), Vienna Biocenter VBC, Dr
Bohr-Gasse 7, 1030 Vienna, Austria [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia
Farm Research Campus, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA (B.J.D.); Genomics Division,
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA (E.Z.K.).
(2)Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP), Vienna Biocenter VBC, Dr
Bohr-Gasse 7, 1030 Vienna, Austria.
(3)1] Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP), Vienna Biocenter VBC, Dr
Bohr-Gasse 7, 1030 Vienna, Austria [2].

Transcriptional enhancers are crucial regulators of gene expression and animal
development and the characterization of their genomic organization,
spatiotemporal activities and sequence properties is a key goal in modern
biology. Here we characterize the in vivo activity of 7,705 Drosophila
melanogaster enhancer candidates covering 13.5% of the non-coding non-repetitive 
genome throughout embryogenesis. 3,557 (46%) candidates are active, suggesting a 
high density with 50,000 to 100,000 developmental enhancers genome-wide. The vast
majority of enhancers display specific spatial patterns that are highly dynamic
during development. Most appear to regulate their neighbouring genes, suggesting 
that the cis-regulatory genome is organized locally into domains, which are
supported by chromosomal domains, insulator binding and genome evolution.
However, 12 to 21 per cent of enhancers appear to skip non-expressed neighbours
and regulate a more distal gene. Finally, we computationally identify
cis-regulatory motifs that are predictive and required for enhancer activity, as 
we validate experimentally. This work provides global insights into the
organization of an animal regulatory genome and the make-up of enhancer sequences
and confirms and generalizes principles from previous studies. All enhancer
patterns are annotated manually with a controlled vocabulary and all results are 
available through a web interface (http://enhancers.starklab.org), including the 
raw images of all microscopy slides for manual inspection at arbitrary zoom
levels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13395 
PMID: 24896182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):611-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13581. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

DNA methylation dynamics of the human preimplantation embryo.

Smith ZD(1), Chan MM(2), Humm KC(3), Karnik R(4), Mekhoubad S(5), Regev A(6),
Eggan K(7), Meissner A(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Department
of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [4] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [5].
(2)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Computational and Systems Biology Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3].
(3)1] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Division of Reproductive Endocrinology
&Infertility, Department of Obstetrics &Gynecology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [3] Obstetrics, Gynecology, and
Reproductive Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA
[4] Boston IVF, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, USA [5] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA [6].
(4)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Department
of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(5)1] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Cellular
Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(6)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(7)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Department
of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [4] Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [5] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Sep;15(9):571.
    Nature. 2016 Dec 8;540(7632):211-212.

In mammals, cytosine methylation is predominantly restricted to CpG dinucleotides
and stably distributed across the genome, with local, cell-type-specific
regulation directed by DNA binding factors. This comparatively static landscape
is in marked contrast with the events of fertilization, during which the paternal
genome is globally reprogrammed. Paternal genome demethylation includes the
majority of CpGs, although methylation remains detectable at several notable
features. These dynamics have been extensively characterized in the mouse, with
only limited observations available in other mammals, and direct measurements are
required to understand the extent to which early embryonic landscapes are
conserved. We present genome-scale DNA methylation maps of human preimplantation 
development and embryonic stem cell derivation, confirming a transient state of
global hypomethylation that includes most CpGs, while sites of residual
maintenance are primarily restricted to gene bodies. Although most features share
similar dynamics to those in mouse, maternally contributed methylation is
divergently targeted to species-specific sets of CpG island promoters that extend
beyond known imprint control regions. Retrotransposon regulation is also highly
diverse, and transitions from maternally to embryonically expressed elements.
Together, our data confirm that paternal genome demethylation is a general
attribute of early mammalian development that is characterized by distinct modes 
of epigenetic regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13581 
PMCID: PMC4178976
PMID: 25079558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):606-10. doi: 10.1038/nature13544. Epub 2014 Jul 23.

The DNA methylation landscape of human early embryos.

Guo H(1), Zhu P(2), Yan L(3), Li R(3), Hu B(4), Lian Y(5), Yan J(5), Ren X(5),
Lin S(5), Li J(5), Jin X(5), Shi X(5), Liu P(5), Wang X(6), Wang W(6), Wei Y(6), 
Li X(4), Guo F(4), Wu X(4), Fan X(4), Yong J(7), Wen L(4), Xie SX(7), Tang F(8), 
Qiao J(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine,
College of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China [2].
(2)1] Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine,
College of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China [2] Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing
100871, China [3].
(3)1] Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine,
College of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China [2] Key Laboratory of Assisted Reproduction, Ministry of Education, Beijing
100191, China [3].
(4)Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine, College
of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(5)1] Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine,
College of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China [2] Key Laboratory of Assisted Reproduction, Ministry of Education, Beijing
100191, China.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking University Third Hospital,
Beijing 100191, China.
(7)1] Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine,
College of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(8)1] Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center &Center for Reproductive Medicine,
College of Life Sciences, Third Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100871,
China [2] Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and
Differentiation, Beijing 100871, China.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Sep;15(9):571.

DNA methylation is a crucial element in the epigenetic regulation of mammalian
embryonic development. However, its dynamic patterns have not been analysed at
the genome scale in human pre-implantation embryos due to technical difficulties 
and the scarcity of required materials. Here we systematically profile the
methylome of human early embryos from the zygotic stage through to
post-implantation by reduced representation bisulphite sequencing and
whole-genome bisulphite sequencing. We show that the major wave of genome-wide
demethylation is complete at the 2-cell stage, contrary to previous observations 
in mice. Moreover, the demethylation of the paternal genome is much faster than
that of the maternal genome, and by the end of the zygotic stage the genome-wide 
methylation level in male pronuclei is already lower than that in female
pronuclei. The inverse correlation between promoter methylation and gene
expression gradually strengthens during early embryonic development, reaching its
peak at the post-implantation stage. Furthermore, we show that active genes, with
the trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4me3) mark at the promoter
regions in pluripotent human embryonic stem cells, are essentially devoid of DNA 
methylation in both mature gametes and throughout pre-implantation development.
Finally, we also show that long interspersed nuclear elements or short
interspersed nuclear elements that are evolutionarily young are demethylated to a
milder extent compared to older elements in the same family and have higher
abundance of transcripts, indicating that early embryos tend to retain higher
residual methylation at the evolutionarily younger and more active transposable
elements. Our work provides insights into the critical features of the methylome 
of human early embryos, as well as its functional relation to the regulation of
gene expression and the repression of transposable elements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13544 
PMID: 25079557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):578-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13539.

Widespread mixing and burial of Earth's Hadean crust by asteroid impacts.

Marchi S(1), Bottke WF(1), Elkins-Tanton LT(2), Bierhaus M(3), Wuennemann K(3),
Morbidelli A(4), Kring DA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Southwest Research Institute, Boulder, Colorado 80302, USA.
(2)1] Carnegie Institution for Science, Washington DC 20015, USA [2] School of
Earth and Space Exploration, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.
(3)Museum für Naturkunde, Berlin 10115, Germany.
(4)Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, Nice 06304, France.
(5)Universities Space Research Association, Lunar and Planetary Institute,
Houston, Texas 77058, USA.

The history of the Hadean Earth (∼4.0-4.5 billion years ago) is poorly understood
because few known rocks are older than ∼3.8 billion years old. The main
constraints from this era come from ancient submillimetre zircon grains. Some of 
these zircons date back to ∼4.4 billion years ago when the Moon, and presumably
the Earth, was being pummelled by an enormous flux of extraterrestrial bodies.
The magnitude and exact timing of these early terrestrial impacts, and their
effects on crustal growth and evolution, are unknown. Here we provide a new
bombardment model of the Hadean Earth that has been calibrated using existing
lunar and terrestrial data. We find that the surface of the Hadean Earth was
widely reprocessed by impacts through mixing and burial by impact-generated melt.
This model may explain the age distribution of Hadean zircons and the absence of 
early terrestrial rocks. Existing oceans would have repeatedly boiled away into
steam atmospheres as a result of large collisions as late as about 4 billion
years ago.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13539 
PMID: 25079556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):574-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13597.

Antarctic glaciation caused ocean circulation changes at the Eocene-Oligocene
transition.

Goldner A(1), Herold N(2), Huber M(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA [2] American Geophysical Union,
Washington DC 20009, USA.
(2)Department of Earth Sciences, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New
Hampshire 03824, USA.
(3)1] Department of Earth Sciences, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New
Hampshire 03824, USA [2] Earth Systems Research Center, Institute for Earth,
Ocean and Space Sciences, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire
03824, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):536-7.

Two main hypotheses compete to explain global cooling and the abrupt growth of
the Antarctic ice sheet across the Eocene-Oligocene transition about 34 million
years ago: thermal isolation of Antarctica due to southern ocean gateway opening,
and declining atmospheric CO2 (refs 5, 6). Increases in ocean thermal
stratification and circulation in proxies across the Eocene-Oligocene transition 
have been interpreted as a unique signature of gateway opening, but at present
both mechanisms remain possible. Here, using a coupled ocean-atmosphere model, we
show that the rise of Antarctic glaciation, rather than altered palaeogeography, 
is best able to explain the observed oceanographic changes. We find that growth
of the Antarctic ice sheet caused enhanced northward transport of Antarctic
intermediate water and invigorated the formation of Antarctic bottom water,
fundamentally reorganizing ocean circulation. Conversely, gateway openings had
much less impact on ocean thermal stratification and circulation. Our results
support available evidence that CO2 drawdown--not gateway opening--caused
Antarctic ice sheet growth, and further show that these feedbacks in turn altered
ocean circulation. The precise timing and rate of glaciation, and thus its
impacts on ocean circulation, reflect the balance between potentially positive
feedbacks (increases in sea ice extent and enhanced primary productivity) and
negative feedbacks (stronger southward heat transport and localized high-latitude
warming). The Antarctic ice sheet had a complex, dynamic role in ocean
circulation and heat fluxes during its initiation, and these processes are likely
to operate in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13597 
PMID: 25079555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):570-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13559.

Mapping the optimal route between two quantum states.

Weber SJ(1), Chantasri A(2), Dressel J(3), Jordan AN(4), Murch KW(5), Siddiqi
I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Quantum Nanoelectronics Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of
California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy and Center for Coherence and Quantum
Optics, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627, USA.
(3)Department of Electrical Engineering, University of California, Riverside,
California 92521, USA.
(4)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy and Center for Coherence and Quantum
Optics, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627, USA [2] Institute for
Quantum Studies, Chapman University, University Drive, Orange, California 92866, 
USA.
(5)Department of Physics, Washington University, St Louis, Missouri 63130, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):538-9.

A central feature of quantum mechanics is that a measurement result is
intrinsically probabilistic. Consequently, continuously monitoring a quantum
system will randomly perturb its natural unitary evolution. The ability to
control a quantum system in the presence of these fluctuations is of increasing
importance in quantum information processing and finds application in fields
ranging from nuclear magnetic resonance to chemical synthesis. A detailed
understanding of this stochastic evolution is essential for the development of
optimized control methods. Here we reconstruct the individual quantum
trajectories of a superconducting circuit that evolves under the competing
influences of continuous weak measurement and Rabi drive. By tracking individual 
trajectories that evolve between any chosen initial and final states, we can
deduce the most probable path through quantum state space. These pre- and
post-selected quantum trajectories also reveal the optimal detector signal in the
form of a smooth, time-continuous function that connects the desired boundary
conditions. Our investigation reveals the rich interplay between measurement
dynamics, typically associated with wavefunction collapse, and unitary evolution 
of the quantum state as described by the Schrödinger equation. These results and 
the underlying theory, based on a principle of least action, reveal the optimal
route from initial to final states, and may inform new quantum control methods
for state steering and information processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13559 
PMID: 25079554 


448. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):567-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13521.

Misaligned protoplanetary disks in a young binary star system.

Jensen EL(1), Akeson R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Swarthmore College, 500 College Avenue,
Swarthmore, Pennsylvania 19081, USA.
(2)NASA Exoplanet Science Institute, IPAC/Caltech, Pasadena, California 91125,
USA.

Many extrasolar planets follow orbits that differ from the nearly coplanar and
circular orbits found in our Solar System; their orbits may be eccentric or
inclined with respect to the host star's equator, and the population of giant
planets orbiting close to their host stars suggests appreciable orbital
migration. There is at present no consensus on what produces such orbits.
Theoretical explanations often invoke interactions with a binary companion star
in an orbit that is inclined relative to the planet's orbital plane. Such
mechanisms require significant mutual inclinations between the planetary and
binary star orbital planes. The protoplanetary disks in a few young binaries are 
misaligned, but often the measurements of these misalignments are sensitive only 
to a small portion of the inner disk, and the three-dimensional misalignment of
the bulk of the planet-forming disk mass has hitherto not been determined. Here
we report that the protoplanetary disks in the young binary system HK Tauri are
misaligned by 60 to 68 degrees, such that one or both of the disks are
significantly inclined to the binary orbital plane. Our results demonstrate that 
the necessary conditions exist for misalignment-driven mechanisms to modify
planetary orbits, and that these conditions are present at the time of planet
formation, apparently because of the binary formation process.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13521 
PMID: 25079553 


449. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):543-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13385. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Comprehensive molecular profiling of lung adenocarcinoma.

Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network.

Collaborators: Collisson EA, Campbell JD, Brooks AN, Berger AH, Lee W, Chmielecki
J, Beer DG, Cope L, Creighton CJ, Danilova L, Ding L, Getz G, Hammerman PS, Hayes
DN, Hernandez B, Herman JG, Heymach JV, Jurisica I, Kucherlapati R, Kwiatkowski
D, Ladanyi M, Robertson G, Schultz N, Shen R, Sinha R, Sougnez C, Tsao MS, Travis
WD, Weinstein JN, Wigle DA, Wilkerson MD, Chu A, Cherniack AD, Hadjipanayis A,
Rosenberg M, Weisenberger DJ, Laird PW, Radenbaugh A, Ma S, Stuart JM, Averett
Byers L, Baylin SB, Govindan R, Meyerson M, Rosenberg M, Gabriel SB, Cibulskis K,
Sougnez C, Kim J, Stewart C, Lichtenstein L, Lander ES, Lawrence MS, Getz,
Kandoth C, Fulton R, Fulton LL, McLellan MD, Wilson RK, Ye K, Fronick CC, Maher
CA, Miller CA, Wendl MC, Cabanski C, Ding L, Mardis E, Govindan R, Creighton CJ, 
Wheeler D, Balasundaram M, Butterfield YS, Carlsen R, Chu A, Chuah E, Dhalla N,
Guin R, Hirst C, Lee D, Li HI, Mayo M, Moore RA, Mungall AJ, Schein JE,
Sipahimalani P, Tam A, Varhol R, Robertson A, Wye N, Thiessen N, Holt RA, Jones
SJ, Marra MA, Campbell JD, Brooks AN, Chmielecki J, Imielinski M, Onofrio RC,
Hodis E, Zack T, Sougnez C, Helman E, Sekhar Pedamallu C, Mesirov J, Cherniack
AD, Saksena G, Schumacher SE, Carter SL, Hernandez B, Garraway L, Beroukhim R,
Gabriel SB, Getz G, Meyerson M, Hadjipanayis A, Lee S, Mahadeshwar HS, Pantazi A,
Protopopov A, Ren X, Seth S, Song X, Tang J, Yang L, Zhang J, Chen PC, Parfenov
M, Wei Xu A, Santoso N, Chin L, Park PJ, Kucherlapati R, Hoadley KA, Auman JT,
Meng S, Shi Y, Buda E, Waring S, Veluvolu U, Tan D, Mieczkowski PA, Jones CD,
Simons JV, Soloway MG, Bodenheimer T, Jefferys SR, Roach J, Hoyle AP, Wu J, Balu 
S, Singh D, Prins JF, Marron JS, Parker JS, Hayes DN, Perou CM, Liu J, Cope L,
Danilova L, Weisenberger DJ, Maglinte DT, Lai PH, Bootwalla MS, Van Den Berg DJ, 
Triche T Jr, Baylin SB, Laird PW, Rosenberg M, Chin L, Zhang J, Cho J, DiCara D, 
Heiman D, Lin P, Mallard W, Voet D, Zhang H, Zou L, Noble MS, Lawrence MS,
Saksena G, Gehlenborg N, Thorvaldsdottir H, Mesirov J, Nazaire MD, Robinson J,
Getz G, Lee W, Aksoy BA, Ciriello G, Taylor BS, Dresdner G, Gao J, Gross B,
Seshan VE, Ladanyi M, Reva B, Sinha R, Sumer SO, Weinhold N, Schultz N, Shen R,
Sander C, Ng S, Ma S, Zhu J, Radenbaugh A, Stuart JM, Benz CC, Yau C, Haussler D,
Spellman PT, Wilkerson MD, Parker JS, Hoadley KA, Kimes PK, Hayes DN, Perou CM,
Broom BM, Wang J, Lu Y, Kwok Shing Ng P, Diao L, Averett Byers L, Liu W, Heymach 
JV, Amos CI, Weinstein JN, Akbani R, Mills GB, Curley E, Paulauskis J, Lau K,
Morris S, Shelton T, Mallery D, Gardner J, Penny R, Saller C, Tarvin K, Richards 
WG, Cerfolio R, Bryant A, Raymond DP, Pennell NA, Farver C, Czerwinski C,
Huelsenbeck-Dill L, Iacocca M, Petrelli N, Rabeno B, Brown J, Bauer T,
Dolzhanskiy O, Potapova O, Rotin D, Voronina O, Nemirovich-Danchenko E, Fedosenko
KV, Gal A, Behera M, Ramalingam SS, Sica G, Flieder D, Boyd J, Weaver J, Kohl B, 
Huy Quoc Thinh D, Sandusky G, Juhl H, Duhig E, Illei P, Gabrielson E, Shin J, Lee
B, Rodgers K, Trusty D, Brock MV, Williamson C, Burks E, Rieger-Christ K, Holway 
A, Sullivan T, Wigle DA, Asiedu MK, Kosari F, Travis WD, Rekhtman N, Zakowski M, 
Rusch VW, Zippile P, Suh J, Pass H, Goparaju C, Owusu-Sarpong Y, Bartlett JM,
Kodeeswaran S, Parfitt J, Sekhon H, Albert M, Eckman J, Myers JB, Cheney R,
Morrison C, Gaudioso C, Borgia JA, Bonomi P, Pool M, Liptay MJ, Moiseenko F,
Zaytseva I, Dienemann H, Meister M, Schnabel PA, Muley TR, Peifer M,
Gomez-Fernandez C, Herbert L, Egea S, Huang M, Thorne LB, Boice L, Hill Salazar
A, Funkhouser WK, Rathmell WK, Dhir R, Yousem SA, Dacic S, Schneider F, Siegfried
JM, Hajek R, Watson MA, McDonald S, Meyers B, Clarke B, Yang IA, Fong KM, Hunter 
L, Windsor M, Bowman RV, Peters S, Letovanec I, Khan KZ, Jensen MA, Snyder EE,
Srinivasan D, Kahn AB, Baboud J, Pot DA, Mills Shaw KR, Sheth M, Davidsen T,
Demchok JA, Yang L, Wang Z, Tarnuzzer R, Zenklusen JC, Ozenberger BA, Sofia HJ,
Travis WD, Cheney R, Clarke B, Dacic S, Duhig E, Funkhouser WK, Illei P, Farver
C, Rekhtman N, Sica G, Suh J, Tsao MS, Travis WD, Cheney R, Clarke B, Dacic S,
Duhig E, Funkhouser WK, Illei P, Farver C, Rekhtman N, Sica G, Suh J, Tsao MS.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 9;514(7521):262. Rogers, K [corrected to Rodgers, K].
    Nature. 2018 Jul;559(7715):E12.

Adenocarcinoma of the lung is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Here
we report molecular profiling of 230 resected lung adenocarcinomas using
messenger RNA, microRNA and DNA sequencing integrated with copy number,
methylation and proteomic analyses. High rates of somatic mutation were seen
(mean 8.9 mutations per megabase). Eighteen genes were statistically
significantly mutated, including RIT1 activating mutations and newly described
loss-of-function MGA mutations which are mutually exclusive with focal MYC
amplification. EGFR mutations were more frequent in female patients, whereas
mutations in RBM10 were more common in males. Aberrations in NF1, MET, ERBB2 and 
RIT1 occurred in 13% of cases and were enriched in samples otherwise lacking an
activated oncogene, suggesting a driver role for these events in certain tumours.
DNA and mRNA sequence from the same tumour highlighted splicing alterations
driven by somatic genomic changes, including exon 14 skipping in MET mRNA in 4%
of cases. MAPK and PI(3)K pathway activity, when measured at the protein level,
was explained by known mutations in only a fraction of cases, suggesting
additional, unexplained mechanisms of pathway activation. These data establish a 
foundation for classification and further investigations of lung adenocarcinoma
molecular pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13385 
PMCID: PMC4231481
PMID: 25079552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):596-600. doi: 10.1038/nature13321. Epub 2014 Jun
22.

Equalizing excitation-inhibition ratios across visual cortical neurons.

Xue M(1), Atallah BV(2), Scanziani M(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Neurobiology Section, Division of Biological Sciences, Center for Neural
Circuits and Behavior, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 
92093-0634, USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA [3] Department of Neuroscience,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA, and Jan and Dan Duncan
Neurological Research Institute at Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(2)Champalimaud Neuroscience Programme, Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown,
Lisbon 1400-038, Portugal.
(3)1] Neurobiology Section, Division of Biological Sciences, Center for Neural
Circuits and Behavior, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 
92093-0634, USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0634, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):528-30.

The relationship between synaptic excitation and inhibition (E/I ratio), two
opposing forces in the mammalian cerebral cortex, affects many cortical functions
such as feature selectivity and gain. Individual pyramidal cells show stable E/I 
ratios in time despite fluctuating cortical activity levels. This is because when
excitation increases, inhibition increases proportionally through the increased
recruitment of inhibitory neurons, a phenomenon referred to as
excitation-inhibition balance. However, little is known about the distribution of
E/I ratios across pyramidal cells. Through their highly divergent axons,
inhibitory neurons indiscriminately contact most neighbouring pyramidal cells. Is
inhibition homogeneously distributed or is it individually matched to the
different amounts of excitation received by distinct pyramidal cells? Here we
discover that pyramidal cells in layer 2/3 of mouse primary visual cortex each
receive inhibition in a similar proportion to their excitation. As a consequence,
E/I ratios are equalized across pyramidal cells. This matched inhibition is
mediated by parvalbumin-expressing but not somatostatin-expressing inhibitory
cells and results from the independent adjustment of synapses originating from
individual parvalbumin-expressing cells targeting different pyramidal cells.
Furthermore, this match is activity-dependent as it is disrupted by perturbing
pyramidal cell activity. Thus, the equalization of E/I ratios across pyramidal
cells reveals an unexpected degree of order in the spatial distribution of
synaptic strengths and indicates that the relationship between the cortex's two
opposing forces is stabilized not only in time but also in space.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13321 
PMCID: PMC4117808
PMID: 25043046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):587-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13555. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

PTEX is an essential nexus for protein export in malaria parasites.

Elsworth B(1), Matthews K(2), Nie CQ(3), Kalanon M(4), Charnaud SC(5), Sanders
PR(3), Chisholm SA(4), Counihan NA(4), Shaw PJ(6), Pino P(7), Chan JA(3), Azevedo
MF(3), Rogerson SJ(8), Beeson JG(9), Crabb BS(10), Gilson PR(1), de Koning-Ward
TF(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health,
Melbourne, 3004, Australia [2] Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia [3].
(2)1] Deakin University, Waurn Ponds, 3216, Australia [2].
(3)Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health, Melbourne,
3004, Australia.
(4)Deakin University, Waurn Ponds, 3216, Australia.
(5)1] Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health,
Melbourne, 3004, Australia [2] Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.
(6)National Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (BIOTEC), Pathum
Thani 12120, Thailand.
(7)The University of Geneva, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland.
(8)The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 3010 Australia.
(9)1] Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health,
Melbourne, 3004, Australia [2] Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia [3] The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 3010 Australia.
(10)1] Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health,
Melbourne, 3004, Australia [2] Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia [3] The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, 3010 Australia
[4].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Sep;12(9):594.

During the blood stages of malaria, several hundred parasite-encoded proteins are
exported beyond the double-membrane barrier that separates the parasite from the 
host cell cytosol. These proteins have a variety of roles that are essential to
virulence or parasite growth. There is keen interest in understanding how
proteins are exported and whether common machineries are involved in trafficking 
the different classes of exported proteins. One potential trafficking machine is 
a protein complex known as the Plasmodium translocon of exported proteins (PTEX).
Although PTEX has been linked to the export of one class of exported proteins,
there has been no direct evidence for its role and scope in protein
translocation. Here we show, through the generation of two parasite lines
defective for essential PTEX components (HSP101 or PTEX150), and analysis of a
line lacking the non-essential component TRX2 (ref. 12), greatly reduced
trafficking of all classes of exported proteins beyond the double membrane
barrier enveloping the parasite. This includes proteins containing the PEXEL
motif (RxLxE/Q/D) and PEXEL-negative exported proteins (PNEPs). Moreover, the
export of proteins destined for expression on the infected erythrocyte surface,
including the major virulence factor PfEMP1 in Plasmodium falciparum, was
significantly reduced in PTEX knockdown parasites. PTEX function was also
essential for blood-stage growth, because even a modest knockdown of PTEX
components had a strong effect on the parasite's capacity to complete the
erythrocytic cycle both in vitro and in vivo. Hence, as the only known nexus for 
protein export in Plasmodium parasites, and an essential enzymic machine, PTEX is
a prime drug target.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13555 
PMID: 25043043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):616-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13393. Epub 2014 Jun 22.

Targeting transcription regulation in cancer with a covalent CDK7 inhibitor.

Kwiatkowski N(1), Zhang T(2), Rahl PB(3), Abraham BJ(3), Reddy J(4), Ficarro
SB(5), Dastur A(6), Amzallag A(7), Ramaswamy S(7), Tesar B(8), Jenkins CE(9),
Hannett NM(3), McMillin D(8), Sanda T(10), Sim T(11), Kim ND(12), Look T(13),
Mitsiades CS(8), Weng AP(9), Brown JR(8), Benes CH(6), Marto JA(5), Young RA(4), 
Gray NS(14).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular
Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3]
Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [4].
(2)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular
Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3].
(3)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(4)1] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(5)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular
Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Blais 
Proteomics Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(6)Department of Medicine Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and
Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA.
(7)1] Department of Medicine Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and
Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129, USA [2] Broad Institute
of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(8)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(9)Terry Fox Laboratory, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British
Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.
(10)1] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Cancer Science Institute of 
Singapore, National University of Singapore, 117599 Singapore.
(11)Chemical Kinomics Research Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology,
39-1, Hawolgok-dong, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Korea, and KU-KIST Graduate
School of Converging Science and Technology, 145, Anam-ro, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul
136-713, Korea.
(12)Daegu-Gyeongbuk Medical Innovation Foundation, 2387 dalgubeol-daero,
Suseong-gu, Daegu 706-010, Korea.
(13)1] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Division of
Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 USA.
(14)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular
Pharmacology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2014 Aug 11;26(2):158-9.

Tumour oncogenes include transcription factors that co-opt the general
transcriptional machinery to sustain the oncogenic state, but direct
pharmacological inhibition of transcription factors has so far proven difficult. 
However, the transcriptional machinery contains various enzymatic cofactors that 
can be targeted for the development of new therapeutic candidates, including
cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs). Here we present the discovery and
characterization of a covalent CDK7 inhibitor, THZ1, which has the unprecedented 
ability to target a remote cysteine residue located outside of the canonical
kinase domain, providing an unanticipated means of achieving selectivity for
CDK7. Cancer cell-line profiling indicates that a subset of cancer cell lines,
including human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL), have exceptional
sensitivity to THZ1. Genome-wide analysis in Jurkat T-ALL cells shows that THZ1
disproportionally affects transcription of RUNX1 and suggests that sensitivity to
THZ1 may be due to vulnerability conferred by the RUNX1 super-enhancer and the
key role of RUNX1 in the core transcriptional regulatory circuitry of these
tumour cells. Pharmacological modulation of CDK7 kinase activity may thus provide
an approach to identify and treat tumour types that are dependent on
transcription for maintenance of the oncogenic state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13393 
PMCID: PMC4244910
PMID: 25043025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):551-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13442. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Topoisomerase II mediates meiotic crossover interference.

Zhang L(1), Wang S(1), Yin S(1), Hong S(2), Kim KP(2), Kleckner N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, Seoul 156-756, South Korea.

Spatial patterning is a ubiquitous feature of biological systems. Meiotic
crossovers provide an interesting example, defined by the classic phenomenon of
crossover interference. Here we identify a molecular pathway for interference by 
analysing crossover patterns in budding yeast. Topoisomerase II plays a central
role, thus identifying a new function for this critical molecule. SUMOylation (of
topoisomerase II and axis component Red1) and ubiquitin-mediated removal of
SUMOylated proteins are also required. The findings support the hypothesis that
crossover interference involves accumulation, relief and redistribution of
mechanical stress along the protein/DNA meshwork of meiotic chromosome axes, with
topoisomerase II required to adjust spatial relationships among DNA segments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13442 
PMCID: PMC4128387
PMID: 25043020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):592-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13574. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

PTEX component HSP101 mediates export of diverse malaria effectors into host
erythrocytes.

Beck JR(1), Muralidharan V(2), Oksman A(3), Goldberg DE(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis,
Missouri 63110, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [3] [4] Center for Tropical and
Emerging Global Diseases and Department of Cellular Biology, University of
Georgia, Athens, Georgia 30602, USA.
(3)1] Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [3] Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri
63110, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Sep;12(9):594.

To mediate its survival and virulence, the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum
exports hundreds of proteins into the host erythrocyte. To enter the host cell,
exported proteins must cross the parasitophorous vacuolar membrane (PVM) within
which the parasite resides, but the mechanism remains unclear. A putative
Plasmodium translocon of exported proteins (PTEX) has been suggested to be
involved for at least one class of exported proteins; however, direct functional 
evidence for this has been elusive. Here we show that export across the PVM
requires heat shock protein 101 (HSP101), a ClpB-like AAA+ ATPase component of
PTEX. Using a chaperone auto-inhibition strategy, we achieved rapid, reversible
ablation of HSP101 function, resulting in a nearly complete block in export with 
substrates accumulating in the vacuole in both asexual and sexual parasites.
Surprisingly, this block extended to all classes of exported proteins, revealing 
HSP101-dependent translocation across the PVM as a convergent step in the
multi-pathway export process. Under export-blocked conditions, association
between HSP101 and other components of the PTEX complex was lost, indicating that
the integrity of the complex is required for efficient protein export. Our
results demonstrate an essential and universal role for HSP101 in protein export 
and provide strong evidence for PTEX function in protein translocation into the
host cell.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13574 
PMCID: PMC4130291
PMID: 25043010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):563-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13481. Epub 2014 Jul 20.

Velocity anti-correlation of diametrically opposed galaxy satellites in the
low-redshift Universe.

Ibata NG(1), Ibata RA(2), Famaey B(2), Lewis GF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Lycée international des Pontonniers, 1 rue des Pontonniers, F-67000
Strasbourg, France.
(2)Observatoire astronomique de Strasbourg, Université de Strasbourg, CNRS, UMR
7550, 11 rue de l'Université, F-67000 Strasbourg, France.
(3)Sydney Institute for Astronomy, School of Physics, A28, The University of
Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Recent work has shown that the Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxies both possess 
the unexpected property that their dwarf satellite galaxies are aligned in thin
and kinematically coherent planar structures. It is interesting to evaluate the
incidence of such planar structures in the larger galactic population, because
the Local Group may not be a representative environment. Here we report
measurements of the velocities of pairs of diametrically opposed satellite
galaxies. In the local Universe (redshift z < 0.05), we find that satellite pairs
out to a distance of 150 kiloparsecs from the galactic centre are preferentially 
anti-correlated in their velocities (99.994 per cent confidence level), and that 
the distribution of galaxies in the larger-scale environment (out to distances of
about 2 megaparsecs) is strongly clumped along the axis joining the inner
satellite pair (>7σ confidence). This may indicate that planes of co-rotating
satellites, similar to those seen around the Andromeda galaxy, are ubiquitous,
and their coherent motion suggests that they represent a substantial repository
of angular momentum on scales of about 100 kiloparsecs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13481 
PMID: 25043008 


456. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):601-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13554. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Type I interferon responses in rhesus macaques prevent SIV infection and slow
disease progression.

Sandler NG(1), Bosinger SE(2), Estes JD(3), Zhu RT(4), Tharp GK(2), Boritz E(4), 
Levin D(5), Wijeyesinghe S(4), Makamdop KN(4), del Prete GQ(3), Hill BJ(4),
Timmer JK(4), Reiss E(4), Yarden G(5), Darko S(4), Contijoch E(4), Todd JP(6),
Silvestri G(7), Nason M(8), Norgren RB Jr(9), Keele BF(3), Rao S(6), Langer
JA(10), Lifson JD(3), Schreiber G(5), Douek DC(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Human Immunology Section, Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA [2] Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, Galveston, Texas 77555, USA.
(2)1] Division of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, Yerkes
National Primate Research Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA [2] Non-Human
Primate Genomics Core, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Robert W.
Woodruff Health Sciences Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(3)AIDS and Cancer Virus Program, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick
National Laboratory, Frederick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(4)Human Immunology Section, Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA.
(5)Department of Biological Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel.
(6)Laboratory of Animal Medicine, Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of 
Allergy and Infectious Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA.
(7)Division of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, Yerkes National
Primate Research Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(8)Biostatistics Research Branch, Division of Clinical Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(9)Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Anatomy, University of Nebraska
Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska 68198, USA.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Rutgers - Robert Wood Johnson Medical School,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):537-8.

Inflammation in HIV infection is predictive of non-AIDS morbidity and death,
higher set point plasma virus load and virus acquisition; thus, therapeutic
agents are in development to reduce its causes and consequences. However,
inflammation may simultaneously confer both detrimental and beneficial effects.
This dichotomy is particularly applicable to type I interferons (IFN-I) which,
while contributing to innate control of infection, also provide target cells for 
the virus during acute infection, impair CD4 T-cell recovery, and are associated 
with disease progression. Here we manipulated IFN-I signalling in rhesus macaques
(Macaca mulatta) during simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) transmission and
acute infection with two complementary in vivo interventions. We show that
blockade of the IFN-I receptor caused reduced antiviral gene expression,
increased SIV reservoir size and accelerated CD4 T-cell depletion with
progression to AIDS despite decreased T-cell activation. In contrast, IFN-α2a
administration initially upregulated expression of antiviral genes and prevented 
systemic infection. However, continued IFN-α2a treatment induced IFN-I
desensitization and decreased antiviral gene expression, enabling infection with 
increased SIV reservoir size and accelerated CD4 T-cell loss. Thus, the timing of
IFN-induced innate responses in acute SIV infection profoundly affects overall
disease course and outweighs the detrimental consequences of increased immune
activation. Yet, the clinical consequences of manipulation of IFN signalling are 
difficult to predict in vivo and therapeutic interventions in human studies
should be approached with caution.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13554 
PMCID: PMC4418221
PMID: 25043006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):557-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13396. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

Structure of class C GPCR metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 transmembrane domain.

Doré AS(1), Okrasa K(1), Patel JC(1), Serrano-Vega M(1), Bennett K(2), Cooke
RM(2), Errey JC(2), Jazayeri A(2), Khan S(2), Tehan B(2), Weir M(2), Wiggin
GR(2), Marshall FH(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Heptares Therapeutics Ltd, BioPark, Broadwater Road, Welwyn Garden City,
Hertfordshire AL7 3AX, UK [2].
(2)Heptares Therapeutics Ltd, BioPark, Broadwater Road, Welwyn Garden City,
Hertfordshire AL7 3AX, UK.

Metabotropic glutamate receptors are class C G-protein-coupled receptors which
respond to the neurotransmitter glutamate. Structural studies have been
restricted to the amino-terminal extracellular domain, providing little
understanding of the membrane-spanning signal transduction domain. Metabotropic
glutamate receptor 5 is of considerable interest as a drug target in the
treatment of fragile X syndrome, autism, depression, anxiety, addiction and
movement disorders. Here we report the crystal structure of the transmembrane
domain of the human receptor in complex with the negative allosteric modulator,
mavoglurant. The structure provides detailed insight into the architecture of the
transmembrane domain of class C receptors including the precise location of the
allosteric binding site within the transmembrane domain and key micro-switches
which regulate receptor signalling. This structure also provides a model for all 
class C G-protein-coupled receptors and may aid in the design of new
small-molecule drugs for the treatment of brain disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13396 
PMID: 25042998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):583-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13281. Epub 2014 May 28.

Seasonal not annual rainfall determines grassland biomass response to carbon
dioxide.

Hovenden MJ(1), Newton PC(2), Wills KE(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, 
Australia.
(2)Land &Environmental Management, AgResearch, Palmerston North 4474, New
Zealand.

The rising atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) should stimulate
ecosystem productivity, but to what extent is highly uncertain, particularly when
combined with changing temperature and precipitation. Ecosystem response to CO2
is complicated by biogeochemical feedbacks but must be understood if carbon
storage and associated dampening of climate warming are to be predicted.
Feedbacks through the hydrological cycle are particularly important and the
physiology is well known; elevated CO2 reduces stomatal conductance and increases
plant water use efficiency (the amount of water required to produce a unit of
plant dry matter). The CO2 response should consequently be strongest when water
is limiting; although this has been shown in some experiments, it is absent from 
many. Here we show that large annual variation in the stimulation of above-ground
biomass by elevated CO2 in a mixed C3/C4 temperate grassland can be predicted
accurately using seasonal rainfall totals; summer rainfall had a positive effect 
but autumn and spring rainfall had negative effects on the CO2 response. Thus,
the elevated CO2 effect mainly depended upon the balance between summer and
autumn/spring rainfall. This is partly because high rainfall during cool, moist
seasons leads to nitrogen limitation, reducing or even preventing biomass
stimulation by elevated CO2. Importantly, the prediction held whether plots were 
warmed by 2 °C or left unwarmed, and was similar for C3 plants and total biomass,
allowing us to make a powerful generalization about ecosystem responses to
elevated CO2. This new insight is particularly valuable because climate
projections predict large changes in the timing of rainfall, even where annual
totals remain static. Our findings will help resolve apparent differences in the 
outcomes of CO2 experiments and improve the formulation and interpretation of
models that are insensitive to differences in the seasonal effects of rainfall on
the CO2 response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13281 
PMID: 24870242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):462-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13542.

Climate change selects for heterozygosity in a declining fur seal population.

Forcada J(1), Hoffman JI(2).

Author information: 
(1)British Antarctic Survey, Natural Environment Research Council, High Cross,
Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0ET, UK.
(2)Department of Animal Behaviour, University of Bielefeld, Postfach 100131,
33501 Bielefeld, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):384.
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):414-5.

Global environmental change is expected to alter selection pressures in many
biological systems, but the long-term molecular and life history data required to
quantify changes in selection are rare. An unusual opportunity is afforded by
three decades of individual-based data collected from a declining population of
Antarctic fur seals in the South Atlantic. Here, climate change has reduced prey 
availability and caused a significant decline in seal birth weight. However, the 
mean age and size of females recruiting into the breeding population are
increasing. We show that such females have significantly higher heterozygosity (a
measure of within-individual genetic variation) than their non-recruiting
siblings and their own mothers. Thus, breeding female heterozygosity has
increased by 8.5% per generation over the last two decades. Nonetheless, as
heterozygosity is not inherited from mothers to daughters, substantial
heterozygote advantage is not transmitted from one generation to the next and the
decreasing viability of homozygous individuals causes the population to decline. 
Our results provide compelling evidence that selection due to climate change is
intensifying, with far-reaching consequences for demography as well as phenotypic
and genetic variation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13542 
PMID: 25056064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):457-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13532.

Zircons reveal magma fluxes in the Earth's crust.

Caricchi L(1), Simpson G(1), Schaltegger U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Geneva, rue des
Maraîchers 13, CH-1205 Geneva, Switzerland.

Magma fluxes regulate the planetary thermal budget, the growth of continents and 
the frequency and magnitude of volcanic eruptions, and play a part in the genesis
and size of magmatic ore deposits. However, because a large fraction of the magma
produced on the Earth does not erupt at the surface, determinations of magma
fluxes are rare and this compromises our ability to establish a link between
global heat transfer and large-scale geological processes. Here we show that age 
distributions of zircons, a mineral often present in crustal magmatic rocks, in
combination with thermal modelling, provide an accurate means of retrieving magma
fluxes. The characteristics of zircon age populations vary significantly and
systematically as a function of the flux and total volume of magma accumulated in
the Earth's crust. Our approach produces results that are consistent with
independent determinations of magma fluxes and volumes of magmatic systems.
Analysis of existing age population data sets using our method suggests that
porphyry-type deposits, plutons and large eruptions each require magma input over
different timescales at different characteristic average fluxes. We anticipate
that more extensive and complete magma flux data sets will serve to clarify the
control that the global heat flux exerts on the frequency of geological events
such as volcanic eruptions, and to determine the main factors controlling the
distribution of resources on our planet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13532 
PMID: 25056063 


461. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):449-51. doi: 10.1038/nature13534.

Spin-transfer torque generated by a topological insulator.

Mellnik AR(1), Lee JS(2), Richardella A(2), Grab JL(1), Mintun PJ(1), Fischer
MH(3), Vaezi A(1), Manchon A(4), Kim EA(1), Samarth N(2), Ralph DC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(3)1] Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA [2] Weizmann Institute of
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(4)King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Physical Sciences and
Engineering Division, Thuwal 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.
(5)1] Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA [2] Kavli Institute at
Cornell, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):418-9.

Magnetic devices are a leading contender for the implementation of memory and
logic technologies that are non-volatile, that can scale to high density and high
speed, and that do not wear out. However, widespread application of magnetic
memory and logic devices will require the development of efficient mechanisms for
reorienting their magnetization using the least possible current and power. There
has been considerable recent progress in this effort; in particular, it has been 
discovered that spin-orbit interactions in heavy-metal/ferromagnet bilayers can
produce strong current-driven torques on the magnetic layer, via the spin Hall
effect in the heavy metal or the Rashba-Edelstein effect in the ferromagnet. In
the search for materials to provide even more efficient spin-orbit-induced
torques, some proposals have suggested topological insulators, which possess a
surface state in which the effects of spin-orbit coupling are maximal in the
sense that an electron's spin orientation is fixed relative to its propagation
direction. Here we report experiments showing that charge current flowing
in-plane in a thin film of the topological insulator bismuth selenide (Bi2Se3) at
room temperature can indeed exert a strong spin-transfer torque on an adjacent
ferromagnetic permalloy (Ni81Fe19) thin film, with a direction consistent with
that expected from the topological surface state. We find that the strength of
the torque per unit charge current density in Bi2Se3 is greater than for any
source of spin-transfer torque measured so far, even for non-ideal topological
insulator films in which the surface states coexist with bulk conduction. Our
data suggest that topological insulators could enable very efficient electrical
manipulation of magnetic materials at room temperature, for memory and logic
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13534 
PMID: 25056062 


462. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):421-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13595. Epub 2014 Jul 22.

Biological insights from 108 schizophrenia-associated genetic loci.

Schizophrenia Working Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.

Collaborators: Ripke S, Neale BM, Corvin A, Walters JT, Farh KH, Holmans PA, Lee 
P, Bulik-Sullivan B, Collier DA, Huang H, Pers TH, Agartz I, Agerbo E, Albus M,
Alexander M, Amin F, Bacanu SA, Begemann M, Belliveau RA Jr, Bene J, Bergen SE,
Bevilacqua E, Bigdeli TB, Black DW, Bruggeman R, Buccola NG, Buckner RL, Byerley 
W, Cahn W, Cai G, Campion D, Cantor RM, Carr VJ, Carrera N, Catts SV, Chambert
KD, Chan RC, Chen RY, Chen EY, Cheng W, Cheung EF, Chong SA, Cloninger CR, Cohen 
D, Cohen N, Cormican P, Craddock N, Crowley JJ, Curtis D, Davidson M, Davis KL,
Degenhardt F, Del Favero J, Demontis D, Dikeos D, Dinan T, Djurovic S, Donohoe G,
Drapeau E, Duan J, Dudbridge F, Durmishi N, Eichhammer P, Eriksson J,
Escott-Price V, Essioux L, Fanous AH, Farrell MS, Frank J, Franke L, Freedman R, 
Freimer NB, Friedl M, Friedman JI, Fromer M, Genovese G, Georgieva L, Giegling I,
Giusti-Rodríguez P, Godard S, Goldstein JI, Golimbet V, Gopal S, Gratten J, de
Haan L, Hammer C, Hamshere ML, Hansen M, Hansen T, Haroutunian V, Hartmann AM,
Henskens FA, Herms S, Hirschhorn JN, Hoffmann P, Hofman A, Hollegaard MV,
Hougaard DM, Ikeda M, Joa I, Julià A, Kahn RS, Kalaydjieva L, Karachanak-Yankova 
S, Karjalainen J, Kavanagh D, Keller MC, Kennedy JL, Khrunin A, Kim Y, Klovins J,
Knowles JA, Konte B, Kucinskas V, Ausrele Kucinskiene Z, Kuzelova-Ptackova H,
Kähler AK, Laurent C, Keong JL, Lee SH, Legge SE, Lerer B, Li M, Li T, Liang KY, 
Lieberman J, Limborska S, Loughland CM, Lubinski J, Lönnqvist J, Macek M Jr,
Magnusson PK, Maher BS, Maier W, Mallet J, Marsal S, Mattheisen M, Mattingsdal M,
McCarley RW, McDonald C, McIntosh AM, Meier S, Meijer CJ, Melegh B, Melle I,
Mesholam-Gately RI, Metspalu A, Michie PT, Milani L, Milanova V, Mokrab Y, Morris
DW, Mors O, Murphy KC, Murray RM, Myin-Germeys I, Müller-Myhsok B, Nelis M,
Nenadic I, Nertney DA, Nestadt G, Nicodemus KK, Nikitina-Zake L, Nisenbaum L,
Nordin A, O'Callaghan E, O'Dushlaine C, O'Neill FA, Oh SY, Olincy A, Olsen L, Van
Os J, Pantelis C, Papadimitriou GN, Papiol S, Parkhomenko E, Pato MT, Paunio T,
Pejovic-Milovancevic M, Perkins DO, Pietiläinen O, Pimm J, Pocklington AJ, Powell
J, Price A, Pulver AE, Purcell SM, Quested D, Rasmussen HB, Reichenberg A,
Reimers MA, Richards AL, Roffman JL, Roussos P, Ruderfer DM, Salomaa V, Sanders
AR, Schall U, Schubert CR, Schulze TG, Schwab SG, Scolnick EM, Scott RJ, Seidman 
LJ, Shi J, Sigurdsson E, Silagadze T, Silverman JM, Sim K, Slominsky P, Smoller
JW, So HC, Spencer CA, Stahl EA, Stefansson H, Steinberg S, Stogmann E, Straub
RE, Strengman E, Strohmaier J, Stroup TS, Subramaniam M, Suvisaari J, Svrakic DM,
Szatkiewicz JP, Söderman E, Thirumalai S, Toncheva D, Tosato S, Veijola J,
Waddington J, Walsh D, Wang D, Wang Q, Webb BT, Weiser M, Wildenauer DB, Williams
NM, Williams S, Witt SH, Wolen AR, Wong EH, Wormley BK, Xi HS, Zai CC, Zheng X,
Zimprich F, Wray NR, Stefansson K, Visscher PM, Adolfsson R, Andreassen OA,
Blackwood DH, Bramon E, Buxbaum JD, Børglum AD, Cichon S, Darvasi A, Domenici E, 
Ehrenreich H, Esko T, Gejman PV, Gill M, Gurling H, Hultman CM, Iwata N,
Jablensky AV, Jönsson EG, Kendler KS, Kirov G, Knight J, Lencz T, Levinson DF, Li
QS, Liu J, Malhotra AK, McCarroll SA, McQuillin A, Moran JL, Mortensen PB, Mowry 
BJ, Nöthen MM, Ophoff RA, Owen MJ, Palotie A, Pato CN, Petryshen TL, Posthuma D, 
Rietschel M, Riley BP, Rujescu D, Sham PC, Sklar P, St Clair D, Weinberger DR,
Wendland JR, Werge T, Daly MJ, Sullivan PF, O'Donovan MC.

Comment in
    Neuron. 2014 Aug 20;83(4):760-3.
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):412-3.
    Curr Biol. 2014 Aug 18;24(16):R755-7.
    Nature. 2018 Feb 1;554(7690):32.

Schizophrenia is a highly heritable disorder. Genetic risk is conferred by a
large number of alleles, including common alleles of small effect that might be
detected by genome-wide association studies. Here we report a multi-stage
schizophrenia genome-wide association study of up to 36,989 cases and 113,075
controls. We identify 128 independent associations spanning 108 conservatively
defined loci that meet genome-wide significance, 83 of which have not been
previously reported. Associations were enriched among genes expressed in brain,
providing biological plausibility for the findings. Many findings have the
potential to provide entirely new insights into aetiology, but associations at
DRD2 and several genes involved in glutamatergic neurotransmission highlight
molecules of known and potential therapeutic relevance to schizophrenia, and are 
consistent with leading pathophysiological hypotheses. Independent of genes
expressed in brain, associations were enriched among genes expressed in tissues
that have important roles in immunity, providing support for the speculated link 
between the immune system and schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13595 
PMCID: PMC4112379
PMID: 25056061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):435-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13406. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

Structure of an Rrp6-RNA exosome complex bound to poly(A) RNA.

Wasmuth EV(1), Januszyk K(2), Lima CD(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Structural Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, 1275 York Avenue,
New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Graduate School of
Biomedical Sciences, Sloan-Kettering Institute, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)Structural Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, 1275 York Avenue, New
York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)1] Structural Biology Program, Sloan-Kettering Institute, 1275 York Avenue,
New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 1275 York
Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.

The eukaryotic RNA exosome processes and degrades RNA by directing substrates to 
the distributive or processive 3' to 5' exoribonuclease activities of Rrp6 or
Rrp44, respectively. The non-catalytic nine-subunit exosome core (Exo9) features 
a prominent central channel. Although RNA can pass through the channel to engage 
Rrp44, it is not clear how RNA is directed to Rrp6 or whether Rrp6 uses the
central channel. Here we report a 3.3 Å crystal structure of a ten-subunit RNA
exosome complex from Saccharomyces cerevisiae composed of the Exo9 core and Rrp6 
bound to single-stranded poly(A) RNA. The Rrp6 catalytic domain rests on top of
the Exo9 S1/KH ring above the central channel, the RNA 3' end is anchored in the 
Rrp6 active site, and the remaining RNA traverses the S1/KH ring in an opposite
orientation to that observed in a structure of a Rrp44-containing exosome
complex. Solution studies with human and yeast RNA exosome complexes suggest that
the RNA path to Rrp6 is conserved and dependent on the integrity of the S1/KH
ring. Although path selection to Rrp6 or Rrp44 is stochastic in vitro, the fate
of a particular RNA may be determined in vivo by the manner in which cofactors
present RNA to the RNA exosome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13406 
PMCID: PMC4310248
PMID: 25043052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):440-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13520. Epub 2014 Jul 6.

Jet acceleration of the fast molecular outflows in the Seyfert galaxy IC 5063.

Tadhunter C(1), Morganti R(2), Rose M(3), Oonk JB(4), Oosterloo T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S3
7RH, UK.
(2)1] ASTRON, The Netherlands Institute of Radio Astronomy, PO Box 2, 7990 AA,
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Kapteyn Astronomical Institute, University of
Groningen, PO Box 800, 9700 AV Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(4)ASTRON, The Netherlands Institute of Radio Astronomy, PO Box 2, 7990 AA,
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands.

Massive outflows driven by active galactic nuclei are widely recognized to have a
key role in the evolution of galaxies, by heating the ambient gas, expelling it
from the nuclear regions, and thereby affecting the star-formation histories of
the galaxy bulges. It has been proposed that the powerful jets of relativistic
particles (such as electrons) launched by some active nuclei can both accelerate 
and heat the molecular gas, which often dominates the mass budgets of the
outflows. Clear evidence for this mechanism, in the form of detailed associations
between the molecular gas kinematics and features in the radio-emitting jets, has
however been lacking. Here we report that the warm molecular hydrogen gas in the 
western radio lobe of the Seyfert galaxy IC 5063 is moving at high velocities-up 
to about 600 kilometres per second-relative to the galaxy disk. This suggests
that the molecules have been accelerated by fast shocks driven into the
interstellar medium by the expanding radio jets. These results demonstrate the
general feasibility of accelerating molecular outflows in fast shocks driven by
active nuclei.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13520 
PMID: 25043049 


465. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):428-34. doi: 10.1038/nature13379. Epub 2014 Jun 22.

Enhancer hijacking activates GFI1 family oncogenes in medulloblastoma.

Northcott PA(1), Lee C(2), Zichner T(3), Stütz AM(4), Erkek S(5), Kawauchi D(6), 
Shih DJ(7), Hovestadt V(8), Zapatka M(8), Sturm D(6), Jones DT(6), Kool M(6),
Remke M(7), Cavalli FM(7), Zuyderduyn S(9), Bader GD(9), VandenBerg S(10),
Esparza LA(11), Ryzhova M(12), Wang W(8), Wittmann A(6), Stark S(6), Sieber L(6),
Seker-Cin H(6), Linke L(6), Kratochwil F(6), Jäger N(13), Buchhalter I(13),
Imbusch CD(14), Zipprich G(14), Raeder B(4), Schmidt S(15), Diessl N(15), Wolf
S(15), Wiemann S(15), Brors B(13), Lawerenz C(14), Eils J(14), Warnatz HJ(16),
Risch T(16), Yaspo ML(16), Weber UD(8), Bartholomae CC(17), von Kalle C(18),
Turányi E(19), Hauser P(20), Sanden E(21), Darabi A(21), Siesjö P(21), Sterba
J(22), Zitterbart K(22), Sumerauer D(23), van Sluis P(24), Versteeg R(24),
Volckmann R(24), Koster J(24), Schuhmann MU(25), Ebinger M(25), Grimes HL(26),
Robinson GW(27), Gajjar A(28), Mynarek M(29), von Hoff K(29), Rutkowski S(29),
Pietsch T(30), Scheurlen W(31), Felsberg J(32), Reifenberger G(32), Kulozik
AE(33), von Deimling A(34), Witt O(33), Eils R(35), Gilbertson RJ(27), Korshunov 
A(34), Taylor MD(36), Lichter P(37), Korbel JO(38), Wechsler-Reya RJ(11), Pfister
SM(39).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2].
(2)1] Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program, University of California San Diego,
9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, California 92093-0685, USA [2] Tumor Initiation and 
Maintenance Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, 10901 North
Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [3].
(3)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), Genome Biology Unit,
Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg 69117, Germany [2].
(4)European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), Genome Biology Unit,
Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg 69117, Germany.
(5)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] European Molecular Biology
Laboratory (EMBL), Genome Biology Unit, Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg 69117,
Germany.
(6)Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(7)The Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain Tumor Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick
Children, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.
(8)Division of Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(9)The Donnelly Centre, University of Toronto, 160 College Street, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 3E1, Canada.
(10)Department of Pathology, University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman
Drive, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(11)Tumor Initiation and Maintenance Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research
Institute, 10901 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(12)Department of Neuropathology, NN Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute, 4th
Tverskaya-Yamskaya 16, Moscow 125047, Russia.
(13)Division of Theoretical Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(14)Data Management Facility, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(15)Genomics and Proteomics Core Facility, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(16)Department of Vertebrate Genomics, Max Planck Institute for Molecular
Genetics, Ihnestrasse 63-73, Berlin 14195, Germany.
(17)Division of Translational Oncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) and 
National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Im Neuenheimer Feld 460, Heidelberg
69120, Germany.
(18)1] Division of Translational Oncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ)
and National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Im Neuenheimer Feld 460, Heidelberg
69120, Germany [2] Heidelberg Center for Personalised Oncology (DKFZ-HIPO), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(19)1st Department of Pathology and Experimental Cancer Research, Semmelweis
University SE, II.sz. Gyermekklinika, Budapest 1094, Hungary.
(20)2nd Department of Pediatrics, Semmelweis University, SE, II.sz.
Gyermekklinika, Budapest 1094, Hungary.
(21)1] Glioma Immunotherapy Group, Division of Neurosurgery, Lund University,
Paradisgatan 2, Lund 221 00, Sweden [2] Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund
University, Paradisgatan 2, Lund 221 00, Sweden.
(22)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Masaryk University and University Hospital,
Brno, Cernopolni 9 Brno 613 00, Czech Republic.
(23)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, 2nd Faculty of Medicine,
Charles University and University Hospital Motol, V Úvalu 84, Prague 150 06,
Czech Republic.
(24)Department of Oncogenomics, AMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9,
Amsterdam 1105, AZ Netherlands.
(25)Department of Neurosurgery, Tübingen University Hospital, Hoppe-Seyler
Strasse 3, Tübingen 72076, Germany.
(26)Division of Immunobiology, Program in Cancer Pathology of the Divisions of
Experimental Hematology and Pathology, Program in Hematologic Malignancies of the
Cancer and Blood Disease Insitute, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, Ohio 452229, USA.
(27)1] Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St Jude Children's Research
Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Department of
Oncology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 262 Danny Thomas Place, Memphis, 
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(28)Department of Oncology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 262 Danny
Thomas Place, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(29)Department of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistrasse 52, Hamburg 20246, Germany.
(30)Department of Neuropathology, University of Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Str. 25, Bonn
53105, Germany.
(31)Cnopf'sche Kinderklinik, Nürnberg Children's Hospital, St-Johannis-Mühlgasse 
19, Nürnberg 90419, Germany.
(32)Department of Neuropathology, Heinrich-Heine-University Düsseldorf,
Moorenstrasse 5, Düsseldorf 40225, Germany.
(33)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology & Immunology, Heidelberg
University Hospital, Im Neuenheimer Feld 430, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(34)Department of Neuropathology, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
220, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(35)1] Division of Theoretical Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Heidelberg Center 
for Personalised Oncology (DKFZ-HIPO), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120,
Germany.
(36)1] The Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain Tumor Research Centre, The Hospital for 
Sick Children, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada [2]
Division of Neurosurgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, 555 University Avenue, 
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.
(37)1] Division of Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Heidelberg Center for
Personalised Oncology (DKFZ-HIPO), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120,
Germany.
(38)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), Genome Biology Unit,
Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg 69117, Germany [2] EMBL, European Bioinformatics
Institute (EMBL-EBI), Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Saffron Walden CB10 
1SD, UK.
(39)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Department of Pediatric
Oncology, Hematology & Immunology, Heidelberg University Hospital, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 430, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2014 Aug 11;26(2):160-1.

Medulloblastoma is a highly malignant paediatric brain tumour currently treated
with a combination of surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, posing a considerable 
burden of toxicity to the developing child. Genomics has illuminated the
extensive intertumoral heterogeneity of medulloblastoma, identifying four
distinct molecular subgroups. Group 3 and group 4 subgroup medulloblastomas
account for most paediatric cases; yet, oncogenic drivers for these subtypes
remain largely unidentified. Here we describe a series of prevalent, highly
disparate genomic structural variants, restricted to groups 3 and 4, resulting in
specific and mutually exclusive activation of the growth factor independent 1
family proto-oncogenes, GFI1 and GFI1B. Somatic structural variants juxtapose
GFI1 or GFI1B coding sequences proximal to active enhancer elements, including
super-enhancers, instigating oncogenic activity. Our results, supported by
evidence from mouse models, identify GFI1 and GFI1B as prominent medulloblastoma 
oncogenes and implicate 'enhancer hijacking' as an efficient mechanism driving
oncogene activation in a childhood cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13379 
PMCID: PMC4201514
PMID: 25043047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):488-492. doi: 10.1038/nature13537. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Selective transcriptional regulation by Myc in cellular growth control and
lymphomagenesis.

Sabò A(#)(1)(2), Kress TR(#)(1)(2), Pelizzola M(#)(1), de Pretis S(1), Gorski
MM(2), Tesi A(1), Morelli MJ(1), Bora P(1), Doni M(2), Verrecchia A(2), Tonelli
C(2), Fagà G(2), Bianchi V(1), Ronchi A(1), Low D(3), Müller H(1), Guccione E(3),
Campaner S(1), Amati B(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genomic Science of IIT@SEMM, Fondazione Istituto Italiano di
Tecnologia (IIT), Via Adamello 16, 20139 Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of Oncology (IEO), Via
Adamello 16, 20139 Milan, Italy.
(3)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, Singapore.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):417-8.

The c-myc proto-oncogene product, Myc, is a transcription factor that binds
thousands of genomic loci. Recent work suggested that rather than up- and
downregulating selected groups of genes, Myc targets all active promoters and
enhancers in the genome (a phenomenon termed 'invasion') and acts as a general
amplifier of transcription. However, the available data did not readily
discriminate between direct and indirect effects of Myc on RNA biogenesis. We
addressed this issue with genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation and RNA
expression profiles during B-cell lymphomagenesis in mice, in cultured B cells
and fibroblasts. Consistent with long-standing observations, we detected general 
increases in total RNA or messenger RNA copies per cell (hereby termed
'amplification') when comparing actively proliferating cells with control
quiescent cells: this was true whether cells were stimulated by mitogens
(requiring endogenous Myc for a proliferative response) or by deregulated,
oncogenic Myc activity. RNA amplification and promoter/enhancer invasion by Myc
were separable phenomena that could occur without one another. Moreover, whether 
or not associated with RNA amplification, Myc drove the differential expression
of distinct subsets of target genes. Hence, although having the potential to
interact with all active or poised regulatory elements in the genome, Myc does
not directly act as a global transcriptional amplifier. Instead, our results
indicate that Myc activates and represses transcription of discrete gene sets,
leading to changes in cellular state that can in turn feed back on global RNA
production and turnover.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13537 
PMCID: PMC4110711
PMID: 25043028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):483-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13473. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Activation and repression by oncogenic MYC shape tumour-specific gene expression 
profiles.

Walz S(1), Lorenzin F(1), Morton J(2), Wiese KE(3), von Eyss B(3), Herold S(3),
Rycak L(4), Dumay-Odelot H(5), Karim S(2), Bartkuhn M(6), Roels F(7), Wüstefeld
T(8), Fischer M(7), Teichmann M(5), Zender L(9), Wei CL(10), Sansom O(2), Wolf
E(11), Eilers M(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] Theodor Boveri Institute, Biocenter, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland,
97074 Würzburg, Germany [2].
(2)CRUK Beatson Institute, Garscube Estate, Switchback Road, Glasgow G61 1BD, UK.
(3)Theodor Boveri Institute, Biocenter, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland, 97074
Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Institute for Molecular Biology and Tumor Research (IMT),
Emil-Mannkopff-Str.2, 35033 Marburg, Germany.
(5)University of Bordeaux, IECB, ARNA laboratory, Equipe Labellisée Contre le
Cancer, 33600 Pessac, France.
(6)Institute for Genetics, Justus-Liebig-University, Heinrich-Buff-Ring 58, 35390
Giessen, Germany.
(7)University Children's Hospital of Cologne, and Cologne Center for Molecular
Medicine (CMMC), University of Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50924 Cologne, Germany.
(8)University Hospital Tübingen, Division of Translational Gastrointestinal
Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine I, Otfried-Mueller-Strasse 10, 72076
Tübingen, Germany.
(9)1] University Hospital Tübingen, Division of Translational Gastrointestinal
Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine I, Otfried-Mueller-Strasse 10, 72076
Tübingen, Germany [2] Translational Gastrointestinal Oncology Group within the
German Center for Translational Cancer Research (DKTK), German Cancer Research
Center (DKFZ), 69121 Heidelberg, Germany.
(10)DOE Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive, Walnut Creek, California
94598, USA.
(11)1] Theodor Boveri Institute, Biocenter, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland,
97074 Würzburg, Germany [2] Rudolf Virchow Center/DFG Research Center for
Experimental Biomedicine, University of Würzburg, Josef-Schneider-Str.2, 97080
Würzburg, Germany [3].
(12)1] Theodor Boveri Institute, Biocenter, University of Würzburg, Am Hubland,
97074 Würzburg, Germany [2] Comprehensive Cancer Center Mainfranken, University
of Würzburg, Josef-Schneider-Str. 6, 97080 Würzburg, Germany [3].

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Dec 18;516(7531):440.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):417-8.

In mammalian cells, the MYC oncoprotein binds to thousands of promoters. During
mitogenic stimulation of primary lymphocytes, MYC promotes an increase in the
expression of virtually all genes. In contrast, MYC-driven tumour cells differ
from normal cells in the expression of specific sets of up- and downregulated
genes that have considerable prognostic value. To understand this discrepancy, we
studied the consequences of inducible expression and depletion of MYC in human
cells and murine tumour models. Changes in MYC levels activate and repress
specific sets of direct target genes that are characteristic of MYC-transformed
tumour cells. Three factors account for this specificity. First, the magnitude of
response parallels the change in occupancy by MYC at each promoter. Functionally 
distinct classes of target genes differ in the E-box sequence bound by MYC,
suggesting that different cellular responses to physiological and oncogenic MYC
levels are controlled by promoter affinity. Second, MYC both positively and
negatively affects transcription initiation independent of its effect on
transcriptional elongation. Third, complex formation with MIZ1 (also known as
ZBTB17) mediates repression of multiple target genes by MYC and the ratio of MYC 
and MIZ1 bound to each promoter correlates with the direction of response.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13473 
PMID: 25043018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):452-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13560. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

A shift of thermokarst lakes from carbon sources to sinks during the Holocene
epoch.

Anthony KM(1), Zimov SA(2), Grosse G(3), Jones MC(4), Anthony PM(1), Chapin FS
3rd(5), Finlay JC(6), Mack MC(7), Davydov S(2), Frenzel P(8), Frolking S(9).

Author information: 
(1)Water and Environmental Research Center, University of Alaska, Fairbanks,
Alaska 99775-5860, USA.
(2)Northeast Scientific Station, Pacific Institute for Geography, Far-East
Branch, Russian Academy of Sciences, Cherskii 678830, Russia.
(3)1] Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska, Fairbanks, Alaska 99775-7320, 
USA [2] Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research, 
Potsdam 14473, Germany.
(4)1] Water and Environmental Research Center, University of Alaska, Fairbanks,
Alaska 99775-5860, USA [2] US Geological Survey, Reston, Virginia 20192, USA.
(5)Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska, Fairbanks, Alaska
99775-7000, USA.
(6)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, Saint 
Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.
(7)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
(8)Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Marburg 35043, Germany.
(9)Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and Space, University of New
Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire 03824-3525, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):415-7.

Thermokarst lakes formed across vast regions of Siberia and Alaska during the
last deglaciation and are thought to be a net source of atmospheric methane and
carbon dioxide during the Holocene epoch. However, the same thermokarst lakes can
also sequester carbon, and it remains uncertain whether carbon uptake by
thermokarst lakes can offset their greenhouse gas emissions. Here we use field
observations of Siberian permafrost exposures, radiocarbon dating and spatial
analyses to quantify Holocene carbon stocks and fluxes in lake sediments
overlying thawed Pleistocene-aged permafrost. We find that carbon accumulation in
deep thermokarst-lake sediments since the last deglaciation is about 1.6 times
larger than the mass of Pleistocene-aged permafrost carbon released as greenhouse
gases when the lakes first formed. Although methane and carbon dioxide emissions 
following thaw lead to immediate radiative warming, carbon uptake in peat-rich
sediments occurs over millennial timescales. We assess thermokarst-lake carbon
feedbacks to climate with an atmospheric perturbation model and find that
thermokarst basins switched from a net radiative warming to a net cooling climate
effect about 5,000 years ago. High rates of Holocene carbon accumulation in 20
lake sediments (47 ± 10 grams of carbon per square metre per year;
mean ± standard error) were driven by thermokarst erosion and deposition of
terrestrial organic matter, by nutrient release from thawing permafrost that
stimulated lake productivity and by slow decomposition in cold, anoxic lake
bottoms. When lakes eventually drained, permafrost formation rapidly sequestered 
sediment carbon. Our estimate of about 160 petagrams of Holocene organic carbon
in deep lake basins of Siberia and Alaska increases the circumpolar peat carbon
pool estimate for permafrost regions by over 50 per cent (ref. 6). The carbon in 
perennially frozen drained lake sediments may become vulnerable to mineralization
as permafrost disappears, potentially negating the climate stabilization provided
by thermokarst lakes during the late Holocene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13560 
PMID: 25043014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):444-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13436. Epub 2014 Jul 13.

Tracking photon jumps with repeated quantum non-demolition parity measurements.

Sun L(1), Petrenko A(2), Leghtas Z(2), Vlastakis B(2), Kirchmair G(1), Sliwa
KM(2), Narla A(2), Hatridge M(2), Shankar S(2), Blumoff J(2), Frunzio L(2),
Mirrahimi M(3), Devoret MH(2), Schoelkopf RJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Departments of Applied Physics and Physics, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA [2] Center for Quantum Information, Institute for
Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084,
China (L.S.); Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck,
Technikerstraße 25, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria and Institut für Quantenoptik und
Quanteninformation, Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften,
Otto-Hittmair-Platz 1, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria (G.K.).
(2)Departments of Applied Physics and Physics, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA.
(3)1] Departments of Applied Physics and Physics, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA [2] INRIA Paris-Rocquencourt, Domaine de Voluceau, BP 105,
78153 Le Chesnay Cedex, France.

Quantum error correction is required for a practical quantum computer because of 
the fragile nature of quantum information. In quantum error correction,
information is redundantly stored in a large quantum state space and one or more 
observables must be monitored to reveal the occurrence of an error, without
disturbing the information encoded in an unknown quantum state. Such observables,
typically multi-quantum-bit parities, must correspond to a special symmetry
property inherent in the encoding scheme. Measurements of these observables, or
error syndromes, must also be performed in a quantum non-demolition way
(projecting without further perturbing the state) and more quickly than errors
occur. Previously, quantum non-demolition measurements of quantum jumps between
states of well-defined energy have been performed in systems such as trapped
ions, electrons, cavity quantum electrodynamics, nitrogen-vacancy centres and
superconducting quantum bits. So far, however, no fast and repeated monitoring of
an error syndrome has been achieved. Here we track the quantum jumps of a
possible error syndrome, namely the photon number parity of a microwave cavity,
by mapping this property onto an ancilla quantum bit, whose only role is to
facilitate quantum state manipulation and measurement. This quantity is just the 
error syndrome required in a recently proposed scheme for a hardware-efficient
protected quantum memory using Schrödinger cat states (quantum superpositions of 
different coherent states of light) in a harmonic oscillator. We demonstrate the 
projective nature of this measurement onto a region of state space with
well-defined parity by observing the collapse of a coherent state onto even or
odd cat states. The measurement is fast compared with the cavity lifetime, has a 
high single-shot fidelity and has a 99.8 per cent probability per single
measurement of leaving the parity unchanged. In combination with the
deterministic encoding of quantum information in cat states realized earlier, the
quantum non-demolition parity tracking that we demonstrate represents an
important step towards implementing an active system that extends the lifetime of
a quantum bit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13436 
PMID: 25043007 


470. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):478-482. doi: 10.1038/nature13298. Epub 2014 Jun
11.

Ultraviolet radiation accelerates BRAF-driven melanomagenesis by targeting TP53.

Viros A(#)(1), Sanchez-Laorden B(#)(1), Pedersen M(#)(2), Furney SJ(#)(1), Rae
J(2), Hogan K(1), Ejiama S(1), Girotti MR(1), Cook M(1)(3), Dhomen N(2), Marais
R(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Oncology Group, Cancer Research UK Manchester Institute, The
University of Manchester, Wilmslow Road, Manchester, M20 4BX, UK.
(2)Signal Transduction Team, The Institute of Cancer Research, 237 Fulham Road,
London, SW3 6JB, UK.
(3)Histopathology, Royal Surrey County Hospital, Egerton Road, Guildford, GU2 7XX
UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Oct;24(10):1157-8.
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2014 Nov;27(6):1010-1.

Cutaneous melanoma is epidemiologically linked to ultraviolet radiation (UVR),
but the molecular mechanisms by which UVR drives melanomagenesis remain unclear. 
The most common somatic mutation in melanoma is a V600E substitution in BRAF,
which is an early event. To investigate how UVR accelerates oncogenic BRAF-driven
melanomagenesis, we used a BRAF(V600E) mouse model. In mice expressing
BRAF(V600E) in their melanocytes, a single dose of UVR that mimicked mild sunburn
in humans induced clonal expansion of the melanocytes, and repeated doses of UVR 
increased melanoma burden. Here we show that sunscreen (UVA superior, UVB sun
protection factor (SPF) 50) delayed the onset of UVR-driven melanoma, but only
provided partial protection. The UVR-exposed tumours showed increased numbers of 
single nucleotide variants and we observed mutations (H39Y, S124F, R245C, R270C, 
C272G) in the Trp53 tumour suppressor in approximately 40% of cases. TP53 is an
accepted UVR target in human non-melanoma skin cancer, but is not thought to have
a major role in melanoma. However, we show that, in mice, mutant Trp53
accelerated BRAF(V600E)-driven melanomagenesis, and that TP53 mutations are
linked to evidence of UVR-induced DNA damage in human melanoma. Thus, we provide 
mechanistic insight into epidemiological data linking UVR to acquired naevi in
humans. Furthermore, we identify TP53/Trp53 as a UVR-target gene that cooperates 
with BRAF(V600E) to induce melanoma, providing molecular insight into how UVR
accelerates melanomagenesis. Our study validates public health campaigns that
promote sunscreen protection for individuals at risk of melanoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13298 
PMCID: PMC4112218
PMID: 24919155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):466-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13313. Epub 2014 Jun 1.

C. elegans Punctin specifies cholinergic versus GABAergic identity of
postsynaptic domains.

Pinan-Lucarré B(1), Tu H(1), Pierron M(2), Cruceyra PI(3), Zhan H(2), Stigloher
C(4), Richmond JE(5), Bessereau JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Biology, École Normale Supérieure, 75005 Paris, France [2]
University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, CGphiMC UMR CNRS 5534, 69622 Villeurbanne,
France [3].
(2)1] Institute of Biology, École Normale Supérieure, 75005 Paris, France [2]
University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, CGphiMC UMR CNRS 5534, 69622 Villeurbanne,
France.
(3)Institute of Biology, École Normale Supérieure, 75005 Paris, France.
(4)1] Institute of Biology, École Normale Supérieure, 75005 Paris, France [2]
University of Würzburg, Biocenter, Division of Electron Microscopy, Am Hubland,
97074 Würzburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60607, USA.

Because most neurons receive thousands of synaptic inputs, the neuronal membrane 
is a mosaic of specialized microdomains where neurotransmitter receptors cluster 
in register with the corresponding presynaptic neurotransmitter release sites. In
many cases the coordinated differentiation of presynaptic and postsynaptic
domains implicates trans-synaptic interactions between membrane-associated
proteins such as neurexins and neuroligins. The Caenorhabditis elegans
neuromuscular junction (NMJ) provides a genetically tractable system in which to 
analyse the segregation of neurotransmitter receptors, because muscle cells
receive excitatory innervation from cholinergic neurons and inhibitory
innervation from GABAergic neurons. Here we show that Ce-Punctin/madd-4 (ref. 5),
the C. elegans orthologue of mammalian punctin-1 and punctin-2, encodes neurally 
secreted isoforms that specify the excitatory or inhibitory identity of
postsynaptic NMJ domains. These proteins belong to the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and 
metalloprotease with thrombospondin repeats)-like family, a class of
extracellular matrix proteins related to the ADAM proteases but devoid of
proteolytic activity. Ce-Punctin deletion causes the redistribution of synaptic
acetylcholine and GABAA (γ-aminobutyric acid type A) receptors into extrasynaptic
clusters, whereas neuronal presynaptic boutons remain unaltered. Alternative
promoters generate different Ce-Punctin isoforms with distinct functions. A short
isoform is expressed by cholinergic and GABAergic motoneurons and localizes to
excitatory and inhibitory NMJs, whereas long isoforms are expressed exclusively
by cholinergic motoneurons and are confined to cholinergic NMJs. The differential
expression of these isoforms controls the congruence between presynaptic and
postsynaptic domains: specific disruption of the short isoform relocalizes GABAA 
receptors from GABAergic to cholinergic synapses, whereas expression of a long
isoform in GABAergic neurons recruits acetylcholine receptors to GABAergic NMJs. 
These results identify Ce-Punctin as a previously unknown synaptic organizer and 
show that presynaptic and postsynaptic domain identities can be genetically
uncoupled in vivo. Because human punctin-2 was identified as a candidate gene for
schizophrenia, ADAMTS-like proteins may also control synapse organization in the 
mammalian central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13313 
PMID: 24896188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):475-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13443.

Receptor binding by H10 influenza viruses.

Vachieri SG(1), Xiong X(1), Collins PJ(2), Walker PA(2), Martin SR(2), Haire
LF(2), Zhang Y(2), McCauley JW(2), Gamblin SJ(2), Skehel JJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill,
London NW7 1AA, UK [2].
(2)MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London
NW7 1AA, UK.

H10N8 follows H7N9 and H5N1 as the latest in a line of avian influenza viruses
that cause serious disease in humans and have become a threat to public health.
Since December 2013, three human cases of H10N8 infection have been reported, two
of whom are known to have died. To gather evidence relating to the epidemic
potential of H10 we have determined the structure of the haemagglutinin of a
previously isolated avian H10 virus and we present here results relating
especially to its receptor-binding properties, as these are likely to be major
determinants of virus transmissibility. Our results show, first, that the H10
virus possesses high avidity for human receptors and second, from the crystal
structure of the complex formed by avian H10 haemagglutinin with human receptor, 
it is clear that the conformation of the bound receptor has characteristics of
both the 1918 H1N1 pandemic virus and the human H7 viruses isolated from patients
in 2013 (ref. 3). We conclude that avian H10N8 virus has sufficient avidity for
human receptors to account for its infection of humans but that its preference
for avian receptors should make avian-receptor-rich human airway mucins an
effective block to widespread infection. In terms of surveillance, particular
attention will be paid to the detection of mutations in the receptor-binding site
of the H10 haemagglutinin that decrease its avidity for avian receptor, and could
enable it to be more readily transmitted between humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13443 
PMID: 24870229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nature. 2014 Jul 24;511(7510):471-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13390. Epub 2014 May 14.

Modality-specific thalamocortical inputs instruct the identity of postsynaptic L4
neurons.

Pouchelon G(1), Gambino F(2), Bellone C(1), Telley L(1), Vitali I(1), Lüscher
C(3), Holtmaat A(1), Jabaudon D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Geneva, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] Interdisciplinary Institute for
NeuroScience, CNRS UMR 5297, 33077 Bordeaux, France.
(3)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Geneva, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] Clinic of Neurology, Department of
Clinical Neurosciences, Geneva University Hospital, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland
[3] Institute of Genetics & Genomics in Geneva (iGE3), University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

During development, thalamocortical (TC) input has a critical role in the spatial
delineation and patterning of cortical areas, yet the underlying cellular and
molecular mechanisms that drive cortical neuron differentiation are poorly
understood. In the primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory cortex, layer 4 
(L4) neurons receive mutually exclusive input originating from two thalamic
nuclei: the ventrobasalis (VB), which conveys tactile input, and the posterior
nucleus (Po), which conveys modulatory and nociceptive input. Recently, we have
shown that L4 neuron identity is not fully committed postnatally, implying a
capacity for TC input to influence differentiation during cortical circuit
assembly. Here we investigate whether the cell-type-specific molecular and
functional identity of L4 neurons is instructed by the origin of their TC input. 
Genetic ablation of the VB at birth resulted in an anatomical and functional
rewiring of Po projections onto L4 neurons in S1. This induced acquisition of Po 
input led to a respecification of postsynaptic L4 neurons, which developed
functional molecular features of Po-target neurons while repressing VB-target
traits. Respecified L4 neurons were able to respond both to touch and to noxious 
stimuli, in sharp contrast to the normal segregation of these sensory modalities 
in distinct cortical circuits. These findings reveal a behaviourally relevant
TC-input-type-specific control over the molecular and functional differentiation 
of postsynaptic L4 neurons and cognate intracortical circuits, which instructs
the development of modality-specific neuronal and circuit properties during
corticogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13390 
PMID: 24828045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):358-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13465. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

WNT7A and PAX6 define corneal epithelium homeostasis and pathogenesis.

Ouyang H(1), Xue Y(2), Lin Y(1), Zhang X(3), Xi L(1), Patel S(4), Cai H(5), Luo
J(4), Zhang M(6), Zhang M(6), Yang Y(3), Li G(6), Li H(2), Jiang W(6), Yeh E(4), 
Lin J(4), Pei M(4), Zhu J(4), Cao G(6), Zhang L(7), Yu B(8), Chen S(7), Fu XD(9),
Liu Y(10), Zhang K(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, China [2] Department of Ophthalmology, and 
Biomaterial and Tissue Engineering Center of Institute of Engineering in
Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(3)1] Department of Ophthalmology, and Biomaterial and Tissue Engineering Center 
of Institute of Engineering in Medicine, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing
Tongren Eye Center, Beijing 100730, China (X.Z.); Department of Ophthalmology,
Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang 110004, China (Y.Y.).
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, and Biomaterial and Tissue Engineering Center of 
Institute of Engineering in Medicine, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(5)1] Molecular Medicine Research Center, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy,
West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Sichuan 610041, China [2] Guangzhou
KangRui Biological Pharmaceutical Technology Company Ltd., Guangzhou 510005,
China.
(6)Molecular Medicine Research Center, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Sichuan 610041, China.
(7)1] Department of Ophthalmology, and Biomaterial and Tissue Engineering Center 
of Institute of Engineering in Medicine, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] Department of Nanoengineering, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(8)1] Department of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA [2] Institute for Genomic Medicine, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(9)1] Department of Ophthalmology, and Biomaterial and Tissue Engineering Center 
of Institute of Engineering in Medicine, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [3] Institute
for Genomic Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA.
(10)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, China.
(11)1] State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510060, China [2] Department of Ophthalmology, and 
Biomaterial and Tissue Engineering Center of Institute of Engineering in
Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [3]
Molecular Medicine Research Center, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Sichuan 610041, China [4] Institute for
Genomic Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093,
USA [5] Veterans Administration Healthcare System, San Diego, California 92093,
USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Aug 7;15(2):121-2.

The surface of the cornea consists of a unique type of non-keratinized epithelial
cells arranged in an orderly fashion, and this is essential for vision by
maintaining transparency for light transmission. Cornea epithelial cells (CECs)
undergo continuous renewal from limbal stem or progenitor cells (LSCs), and
deficiency in LSCs or corneal epithelium--which turns cornea into a
non-transparent, keratinized skin-like epithelium--causes corneal surface disease
that leads to blindness in millions of people worldwide. How LSCs are maintained 
and differentiated into corneal epithelium in healthy individuals and which key
molecular events are defective in patients have been largely unknown. Here we
report establishment of an in vitro feeder-cell-free LSC expansion and
three-dimensional corneal differentiation protocol in which we found that the
transcription factors p63 (tumour protein 63) and PAX6 (paired box protein PAX6) 
act together to specify LSCs, and WNT7A controls corneal epithelium
differentiation through PAX6. Loss of WNT7A or PAX6 induces LSCs into skin-like
epithelium, a critical defect tightly linked to common human corneal diseases.
Notably, transduction of PAX6 in skin epithelial stem cells is sufficient to
convert them to LSC-like cells, and upon transplantation onto eyes in a rabbit
corneal injury model, these reprogrammed cells are able to replenish CECs and
repair damaged corneal surface. These findings suggest a central role of the
WNT7A-PAX6 axis in corneal epithelial cell fate determination, and point to a new
strategy for treating corneal surface diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13465 
PMCID: PMC4610745
PMID: 25030175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):353-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13426. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

ABCB5 is a limbal stem cell gene required for corneal development and repair.

Ksander BR(1), Kolovou PE(1), Wilson BJ(2), Saab KR(3), Guo Q(4), Ma J(3),
McGuire SP(5), Gregory MS(5), Vincent WJ(5), Perez VL(6), Cruz-Guilloty F(6), Kao
WW(7), Call MK(7), Tucker BA(8), Zhan Q(9), Murphy GF(9), Lathrop KL(10), Alt
C(11), Mortensen LJ(11), Lin CP(11), Zieske JD(5), Frank MH(12), Frank NY(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Ophthalmology, Schepens Eye Research Institute, Massachusetts
Eye & Ear Infirmary and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA 
[2].
(2)1] Transplant Research Program, Division of Nephrology, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Dermatology, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Department of
Medicine, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts 02130, USA.
(3)1] Transplant Research Program, Division of Nephrology, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Dermatology, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)1] Department of Medicine, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts 
02130, USA [2] Transplant Research Program, Division of Nephrology, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Department of
Dermatology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Schepens Eye Research Institute, Massachusetts
Eye & Ear Infirmary and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(6)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and the Department of Ophthalmology, University of
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida 33136, USA.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Cincinnati Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(8)Stephen A Wynn Institute for Vision Research, Carver College of Medicine,
Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Iowa, Iowa City,
Iowa 52242, USA.
(9)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(10)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine &
Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh Swanson School of
Engineering, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.
(11)Center for Systems Biology and Wellman Center for Photomedicine,
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, USA.
(12)1] Transplant Research Program, Division of Nephrology, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Dermatology, Brigham
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Harvard Stem Cell
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02138, USA [4].
(13)1] Department of Medicine, VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston, Massachusetts
02130, USA [2] Transplant Research Program, Division of Nephrology, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Harvard Stem Cell
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02138, USA [4] Division 
of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [5].

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Aug 7;15(2):121-2.

Corneal epithelial homeostasis and regeneration are sustained by limbal stem
cells (LSCs), and LSC deficiency is a major cause of blindness worldwide.
Transplantation is often the only therapeutic option available to patients with
LSC deficiency. However, while transplant success depends foremost on LSC
frequency within grafts, a gene allowing for prospective LSC enrichment has not
been identified so far. Here we show that ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B,
member 5 (ABCB5) marks LSCs and is required for LSC maintenance, corneal
development and repair. Furthermore, we demonstrate that prospectively isolated
human or murine ABCB5-positive LSCs possess the exclusive capacity to fully
restore the cornea upon grafting to LSC-deficient mice in xenogeneic or syngeneic
transplantation models. ABCB5 is preferentially expressed on label-retaining LSCs
in mice and p63α-positive LSCs in humans. Consistent with these findings,
ABCB5-positive LSC frequency is reduced in LSC-deficient patients. Abcb5 loss of 
function in Abcb5 knockout mice causes depletion of quiescent LSCs due to
enhanced proliferation and apoptosis, and results in defective corneal
differentiation and wound healing. Our results from gene knockout studies, LSC
tracing and transplantation models, as well as phenotypic and functional analyses
of human biopsy specimens, provide converging lines of evidence that ABCB5
identifies mammalian LSCs. Identification and prospective isolation of
molecularly defined LSCs with essential functions in corneal development and
repair has important implications for the treatment of corneal disease,
particularly corneal blindness due to LSC deficiency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13426 
PMCID: PMC4246512
PMID: 25030174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):341-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13531. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Declines in insectivorous birds are associated with high neonicotinoid
concentrations.

Hallmann CA(1), Foppen RP(2), van Turnhout CA(3), de Kroon H(4), Jongejans E(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Radboud University, Institute of Water and Wetland Research, Departments of
Experimental Plant Ecology & Animal Ecology and Ecophysiology, PO Box 9100 (Mail 
Box 31), 6500 GL Nijmegen, The Netherlands [2] Sovon, Dutch Centre for Field
Ornithology, PO Box 6521, 6503 GA Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)1] Sovon, Dutch Centre for Field Ornithology, PO Box 6521, 6503 GA Nijmegen,
The Netherlands [2] Birdlife Netherlands, PO Box 925, 3700 AX Zeist, The
Netherlands.
(3)Sovon, Dutch Centre for Field Ornithology, PO Box 6521, 6503 GA Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Radboud University, Institute of Water and Wetland Research, Departments of
Experimental Plant Ecology & Animal Ecology and Ecophysiology, PO Box 9100 (Mail 
Box 31), 6500 GL Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):295-6.

Recent studies have shown that neonicotinoid insecticides have adverse effects on
non-target invertebrate species. Invertebrates constitute a substantial part of
the diet of many bird species during the breeding season and are indispensable
for raising offspring. We investigated the hypothesis that the most widely used
neonicotinoid insecticide, imidacloprid, has a negative impact on insectivorous
bird populations. Here we show that, in the Netherlands, local population trends 
were significantly more negative in areas with higher surface-water
concentrations of imidacloprid. At imidacloprid concentrations of more than 20
nanograms per litre, bird populations tended to decline by 3.5 per cent on
average annually. Additional analyses revealed that this spatial pattern of
decline appeared only after the introduction of imidacloprid to the Netherlands, 
in the mid-1990s. We further show that the recent negative relationship remains
after correcting for spatial differences in land-use changes that are known to
affect bird populations in farmland. Our results suggest that the impact of
neonicotinoids on the natural environment is even more substantial than has
recently been reported and is reminiscent of the effects of persistent
insecticides in the past. Future legislation should take into account the
potential cascading effects of neonicotinoids on ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13531 
PMID: 25030173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):338-40. doi: 10.1038/nature13493.

Pathway from subducting slab to surface for melt and fluids beneath Mount
Rainier.

McGary RS(1), Evans RL(1), Wannamaker PE(2), Elsenbeck J(1), Rondenay S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, MS#22, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, 360 Woods Hole Road, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA.
(2)Energy and Geoscience Institute, University of Utah, 423 Wakara Way, Suite
300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108, USA.
(3)Department of Earth Science, University of Bergen, Allegaten 41, 5007 Bergen, 
Norway.

Convergent margin volcanism originates with partial melting, primarily of the
upper mantle, into which the subducting slab descends. Melting of this material
can occur in one of two ways. The flow induced in the mantle by the slab can
result in upwelling and melting through adiabatic decompression. Alternatively,
fluids released from the descending slab through dehydration reactions can
migrate into the hot mantle wedge, inducing melting by lowering the solidus
temperature. The two mechanisms are not mutually exclusive. In either case, the
buoyant melts make their way towards the surface to reside in the crust or to be 
extruded as lava. Here we use magnetotelluric data collected across the central
state of Washington, USA, to image the complete pathway for the fluid-melt phase.
By incorporating constraints from a collocated seismic study into the
magnetotelluric inversion process, we obtain superior constraints on the fluids
and melt in a subduction setting. Specifically, we are able to identify and
connect fluid release at or near the top of the slab, migration of fluids into
the overlying mantle wedge, melting in the wedge, and transport of the melt/fluid
phase to a reservoir in the crust beneath Mt Rainier.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13493 
PMID: 25030172 


478. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):334-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13435. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

A low-cost non-toxic post-growth activation step for CdTe solar cells.

Major JD(1), Treharne RE(1), Phillips LJ(1), Durose K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stephenson Institute for Renewable Energy and Department of Physics, School of
Physical Sciences, Chadwick Building, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZF,
UK.

Cadmium telluride, CdTe, is now firmly established as the basis for the
market-leading thin-film solar-cell technology. With laboratory efficiencies
approaching 20 per cent, the research and development targets for CdTe are to
reduce the cost of power generation further to less than half a US dollar per
watt (ref. 2) and to minimize the environmental impact. A central part of the
manufacturing process involves doping the polycrystalline thin-film CdTe with
CdCl2. This acts to form the photovoltaic junction at the CdTe/CdS interface and 
to passivate the grain boundaries, making it essential in achieving high device
efficiencies. However, although such doping has been almost ubiquitous since the 
development of this processing route over 25 years ago, CdCl2 has two severe
disadvantages; it is both expensive (about 30 cents per gram) and a water-soluble
source of toxic cadmium ions, presenting a risk to both operators and the
environment during manufacture. Here we demonstrate that solar cells prepared
using MgCl2, which is non-toxic and costs less than a cent per gram, have
efficiencies (around 13%) identical to those of a CdCl2-processed control group. 
They have similar hole densities in the active layer (9 × 10(14) cm(-3)) and
comparable impurity profiles for Cl and O, these elements being important p-type 
dopants for CdTe thin films. Contrary to expectation, CdCl2-processed and
MgCl2-processed solar cells contain similar concentrations of Mg; this is because
of Mg out-diffusion from the soda-lime glass substrates and is not
disadvantageous to device performance. However, treatment with other low-cost
chlorides such as NaCl, KCl and MnCl2 leads to the introduction of electrically
active impurities that do compromise device performance. Our results demonstrate 
that CdCl2 may simply be replaced directly with MgCl2 in the existing fabrication
process, thus both minimizing the environmental risk and reducing the cost of
CdTe solar-cell production.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13435 
PMID: 25030171 


479. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):330-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13526.

Ramp compression of diamond to five terapascals.

Smith RF(1), Eggert JH(1), Jeanloz R(2), Duffy TS(3), Braun DG(1), Patterson
JR(1), Rudd RE(1), Biener J(1), Lazicki AE(1), Hamza AV(1), Wang J(2), Braun
T(1), Benedict LX(1), Celliers PM(1), Collins GW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, PO Box 808, Livermore, California
94550, USA.
(2)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, Department of Astronomy and Miller 
Institute for Basic Research in Science, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(3)Department of Geosciences, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, 
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):294-5.

The recent discovery of more than a thousand planets outside our Solar System,
together with the significant push to achieve inertially confined fusion in the
laboratory, has prompted a renewed interest in how dense matter behaves at
millions to billions of atmospheres of pressure. The theoretical description of
such electron-degenerate matter has matured since the early quantum statistical
model of Thomas and Fermi, and now suggests that new complexities can emerge at
pressures where core electrons (not only valence electrons) influence the
structure and bonding of matter. Recent developments in shock-free dynamic (ramp)
compression now allow laboratory access to this dense matter regime. Here we
describe ramp-compression measurements for diamond, achieving 3.7-fold
compression at a peak pressure of 5 terapascals (equivalent to 50 million
atmospheres). These equation-of-state data can now be compared to
first-principles density functional calculations and theories long used to
describe matter present in the interiors of giant planets, in stars, and in
inertial-confinement fusion experiments. Our data also provide new constraints on
mass-radius relationships for carbon-rich planets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13526 
PMID: 25030170 


480. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):326-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13558. Epub 2014 Jul 9.

Rapid formation of large dust grains in the luminous supernova 2010jl.

Gall C(1), Hjorth J(2), Watson D(2), Dwek E(3), Maund JR(4), Fox O(5), Leloudas
G(6), Malesani D(2), Day-Jones AC(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 120,
DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark [2] Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute,
University of Copenhagen, Juliane Maries Vej 30, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark
[3] Observational Cosmology Lab, Code 665, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(2)Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane
Maries Vej 30, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
(3)Observational Cosmology Lab, Code 665, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center,
Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(4)1] Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen,
Juliane Maries Vej 30, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark [2] Astrophysics Research
Centre School of Mathematics and Physics, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast BT7
1NN, UK.
(5)Department of Astronomy, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720-3411, USA.
(6)1] Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen,
Juliane Maries Vej 30, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark [2] The Oskar Klein Centre, 
Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Albanova University Centre, 10691
Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Departamento de Astronomía, Universidad de Chile, Camino del Observatorio
1515, Santiago, Chile.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):296-7.

The origin of dust in galaxies is still a mystery. The majority of the refractory
elements are produced in supernova explosions, but it is unclear how and where
dust grains condense and grow, and how they avoid destruction in the harsh
environments of star-forming galaxies. The recent detection of 0.1 to 0.5 solar
masses of dust in nearby supernova remnants suggests in situ dust formation,
while other observations reveal very little dust in supernovae in the first few
years after explosion. Observations of the spectral evolution of the bright
SN 2010jl have been interpreted as pre-existing dust, dust formation or no dust
at all. Here we report the rapid (40 to 240 days) formation of dust in its dense 
circumstellar medium. The wavelength-dependent extinction of this dust reveals
the presence of very large (exceeding one micrometre) grains, which resist
destruction. At later times (500 to 900 days), the near-infrared thermal emission
shows an accelerated growth in dust mass, marking the transition of the dust
source from the circumstellar medium to the ejecta. This provides the link
between the early and late dust mass evolution in supernovae with dense
circumstellar media.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13558 
PMID: 25030169 


481. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):319-25. doi: 10.1038/nature13535. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

The cancer glycocalyx mechanically primes integrin-mediated growth and survival.

Paszek MJ(1), DuFort CC(2), Rossier O(3), Bainer R(2), Mouw JK(4), Godula K(5),
Hudak JE(6), Lakins JN(4), Wijekoon AC(2), Cassereau L(2), Rubashkin MG(2),
Magbanua MJ(7), Thorn KS(8), Davidson MW(9), Rugo HS(7), Park JW(7), Hammer
DA(10), Giannone G(3), Bertozzi CR(11), Weaver VM(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Surgery and Center for Bioengineering and Tissue
Regeneration, University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] 
Bay Area Physical Sciences-Oncology Program, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA [3] School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering,
Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA [4] Laboratory for Atomic and
Solid State Physics and Kavli Institute at Cornell for Nanoscale Science, Cornell
University, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(2)1] Department of Surgery and Center for Bioengineering and Tissue
Regeneration, University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] 
Bay Area Physical Sciences-Oncology Program, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA.
(3)1] Interdisciplinary Institute for Neuroscience, University of Bordeaux, UMR
5297, F-33000 Bordeaux, France [2] CNRS, Interdisciplinary Institute for
Neuroscience, University of Bordeaux, UMR 5297, F-33000 Bordeaux, France.
(4)Department of Surgery and Center for Bioengineering and Tissue Regeneration,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(5)1] Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] The Molecular Foundry, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of California, San Diego, California 92093, USA.
(6)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.
(7)1] Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, 
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Division of Hematology/Oncology,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(9)National High Magnetic Field Laboratory and Department of Biological Science, 
The Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida 32310, USA.
(10)Departments of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and Bioengineering,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(11)1] Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] Department of Molecular Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University
of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(12)1] Department of Surgery and Center for Bioengineering and Tissue
Regeneration, University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] 
Bay Area Physical Sciences-Oncology Program, University of California, Berkeley, 
California 94720, USA [3] Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [4] Departments of
Anatomy and Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences and Eli and Edythe Broad
Center for Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):298-9.

Malignancy is associated with altered expression of glycans and glycoproteins
that contribute to the cellular glycocalyx. We constructed a glycoprotein
expression signature, which revealed that metastatic tumours upregulate
expression of bulky glycoproteins. A computational model predicted that these
glycoproteins would influence transmembrane receptor spatial organization and
function. We tested this prediction by investigating whether bulky glycoproteins 
in the glycocalyx promote a tumour phenotype in human cells by increasing
integrin adhesion and signalling. Our data revealed that a bulky glycocalyx
facilitates integrin clustering by funnelling active integrins into adhesions and
altering integrin state by applying tension to matrix-bound integrins,
independent of actomyosin contractility. Expression of large tumour-associated
glycoproteins in non-transformed mammary cells promoted focal adhesion assembly
and facilitated integrin-dependent growth factor signalling to support cell
growth and survival. Clinical studies revealed that large glycoproteins are
abundantly expressed on circulating tumour cells from patients with advanced
disease. Thus, a bulky glycocalyx is a feature of tumour cells that could foster 
metastasis by mechanically enhancing cell-surface receptor function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13535 
PMCID: PMC4487551
PMID: 25030168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):312-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13547. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Reprogramming human endothelial cells to haematopoietic cells requires vascular
induction.

Sandler VM(1), Lis R(2), Liu Y(1), Kedem A(2), James D(2), Elemento O(3), Butler 
JM(1), Scandura JM(4), Rafii S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ansary Stem Cell Institute, Department of Genetic Medicine, and Howard Hughes 
Medical Institute, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)1] Ansary Stem Cell Institute, Department of Genetic Medicine, and Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York
10065, USA [2] Ronald O. Perelman and Claudia Cohen Center for Reproductive
Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz Alsaud Institute for Computational
Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Hematology-Oncology, Weill Cornell Medical College and
the New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):301-2.

Generating engraftable human haematopoietic cells from autologous tissues is a
potential route to new therapies for blood diseases. However, directed
differentiation of pluripotent stem cells yields haematopoietic cells that
engraft poorly. Here, we have devised a method to phenocopy the vascular-niche
microenvironment of haemogenic cells, thereby enabling reprogramming of human
endothelial cells into engraftable haematopoietic cells without transition
through a pluripotent intermediate. Highly purified non-haemogenic human
umbilical vein endothelial cells or adult dermal microvascular endothelial cells 
were transduced with the transcription factors FOSB, GFI1, RUNX1 and SPI1
(hereafter referred to as FGRS), and then propagated on serum-free instructive
vascular niche monolayers to induce outgrowth of haematopoietic colonies
containing cells with functional and immunophenotypic features of multipotent
progenitor cells (MPPs). These endothelial cells that have been reprogrammed into
human MPPs (rEC-hMPPs) acquire colony-forming-cell potential and durably engraft 
into immune-deficient mice after primary and secondary transplantation, producing
long-term rEC-hMPP-derived myeloid (granulocytic/monocytic, erythroid,
megakaryocytic) and lymphoid (natural killer and B cell) progenies. Conditional
expression of FGRS transgenes, combined with vascular induction, activates
endogenous FGRS genes, endowing rEC-hMPPs with a transcriptional and functional
profile similar to that of self-renewing MPPs. Our approach underscores the role 
of inductive cues from the vascular niche in coordinating and sustaining
haematopoietic specification and may prove useful for engineering autologous
haematopoietic grafts to treat inherited and acquired blood disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13547 
PMCID: PMC4159670
PMID: 25030167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):303-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13499.

A deep crust-mantle boundary in the asteroid 4 Vesta.

Clenet H(1), Jutzi M(2), Barrat JA(3), Asphaug EI(4), Benz W(2), Gillet P(1).

Author information: 
(1)EPSL, Institute of Condensed Matter Physics, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de
Lausanne (EPFL), Station 3, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Physics Institute, Space Research and Planetary Sciences, Center for Space and
Habitability, University of Bern, Sidlerstrasse 5, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(3)Université de Bretagne Occidentale, Institut Universitaire Européen de la Mer,
CNRS UMR 6538, Place Nicolas Copernic, 29280 Plouzané, France.
(4)School of Earth and Space Exploration, Arizona State University, PO Box
876004, Tempe, Arizona 85287, USA.

The asteroid 4 Vesta was recently found to have two large impact craters near its
south pole, exposing subsurface material. Modelling suggested that surface
material in the northern hemisphere of Vesta came from a depth of about
20 kilometres, whereas the exposed southern material comes from a depth of 60 to 
100 kilometres. Large amounts of olivine from the mantle were not seen,
suggesting that the outer 100 kilometres or so is mainly igneous crust. Here we
analyse the data on Vesta and conclude that the crust-mantle boundary (or Moho)
is deeper than 80 kilometres.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13499 
PMID: 25030166 


484. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):366-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13378. Epub 2014 Jun 8.

The structural basis of transfer RNA mimicry and conformational plasticity by a
viral RNA.

Colussi TM(1), Costantino DA(2), Hammond JA(3), Ruehle GM(4), Nix JC(5), Kieft
JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado
Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado
80045, USA [3] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Northeastern
University, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA (T.M.C.); Department of Integrative 
Structural and Computational Biology, Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA (J.A.H.).
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado
Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado
80045, USA.
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado
Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA [2] Department of
Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA (T.M.C.); Department of Integrative Structural and Computational
Biology, Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA (J.A.H.).
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado
Denver School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.
(5)Molecular Biology Consortium, Advanced Light Source, Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

RNA is arguably the most functionally diverse biological macromolecule. In some
cases a single discrete RNA sequence performs multiple roles, and this can be
conferred by a complex three-dimensional structure. Such multifunctionality can
also be driven or enhanced by the ability of a given RNA to assume different
conformational (and therefore functional) states. Despite its biological
importance, a detailed structural understanding of the paradigm of RNA
structure-driven multifunctionality is lacking. To address this gap it is useful 
to study examples from single-stranded positive-sense RNA viruses, a prototype
being the tRNA-like structure (TLS) found at the 3' end of the turnip yellow
mosaic virus (TYMV). This TLS not only acts like a tRNA to drive aminoacylation
of the viral genomic (g)RNA, but also interacts with other structures in the 3'
untranslated region of the gRNA, contains the promoter for negative-strand
synthesis, and influences several infection-critical processes. TLS RNA can
provide a glimpse into the structural basis of RNA multifunctionality and
plasticity, but for decades its high-resolution structure has remained elusive.
Here we present the crystal structure of the complete TYMV TLS to 2.0 Å
resolution. Globally, the RNA adopts a shape that mimics tRNA, but it uses a very
different set of intramolecular interactions to achieve this shape. These
interactions also allow the TLS to readily switch conformations. In addition, the
TLS structure is 'two faced': one face closely mimics tRNA and drives
aminoacylation, the other face diverges from tRNA and enables additional
functionality. The TLS is thus structured to perform several functions and
interact with diverse binding partners, and we demonstrate its ability to
specifically bind to ribosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13378 
PMCID: PMC4136544
PMID: 24909993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):307-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13301. Epub 2014 Jun 8.

Genetics of ecological divergence during speciation.

Arnegard ME(1), McGee MD(2), Matthews B(3), Marchinko KB(4), Conte GL(4), Kabir
S(4), Bedford N(4), Bergek S(5), Chan YF(6), Jones FC(6), Kingsley DM(6), Peichel
CL(7), Schluter D(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Human Biology and Basic Sciences
Divisions, 1100 Fairview Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [2]
University of British Columbia, Biodiversity Research Centre and Zoology
Department, 6270 University Boulevard, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4,
Canada.
(2)University of California at Davis, Department of Evolution and Ecology, One
Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(3)EAWAG, Department of Aquatic Ecology, Center for Ecology, Evolution, and
Biogeochemistry, Seestrasse 79, 6047 Kastanienbaum, Switzerland.
(4)University of British Columbia, Biodiversity Research Centre and Zoology
Department, 6270 University Boulevard, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4,
Canada.
(5)1] Uppsala University, Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology
Centre (EBC), Norbyvägen 18D, SE-75236 Uppsala, Sweden [2] Swedish University of 
Agricultural Sciences, Department of Aquatic Resources, Stångholmsvägen 2,
SE-17893 Drottningholm, Sweden.
(6)Stanford University School of Medicine, Department of Developmental Biology
and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 279 Campus Drive, Stanford, California
94305, USA.
(7)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Human Biology and Basic Sciences
Divisions, 1100 Fairview Avenue North, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Oct 6;24(19):R959-62.

Ecological differences often evolve early in speciation as divergent natural
selection drives adaptation to distinct ecological niches, leading ultimately to 
reproductive isolation. Although this process is a major generator of
biodiversity, its genetic basis is still poorly understood. Here we investigate
the genetic architecture of niche differentiation in a sympatric species pair of 
threespine stickleback fish by mapping the environment-dependent effects of
phenotypic traits on hybrid feeding and performance under semi-natural
conditions. We show that multiple, unlinked loci act largely additively to
determine position along the major niche axis separating these recently diverged 
species. We also find that functional mismatch between phenotypic traits reduces 
the growth of some stickleback hybrids beyond that expected from an intermediate 
phenotype, suggesting a role for epistasis between the underlying genes. This
functional mismatch might lead to hybrid incompatibilities that are analogous to 
those underlying intrinsic reproductive isolation but depend on the ecological
context.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13301 
PMCID: PMC4149549
PMID: 24909991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):348-52. doi: 10.1038/nature13294. Epub 2014 Jun 1.

Engineering a memory with LTD and LTP.

Nabavi S(1), Fox R(1), Proulx CD(2), Lin JY(3), Tsien RY(4), Malinow R(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior, Department of Neuroscience and
Section of Neurobiology, University of California at San Diego, California 92093,
USA [2].
(2)Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior, Department of Neuroscience and
Section of Neurobiology, University of California at San Diego, California 92093,
USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, University of California at San Diego, California 
92093, USA.
(4)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of California at San Diego,
California 92093, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
California at San Diego, California 92093, USA.

It has been proposed that memories are encoded by modification of synaptic
strengths through cellular mechanisms such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and
long-term depression (LTD). However, the causal link between these synaptic
processes and memory has been difficult to demonstrate. Here we show that fear
conditioning, a type of associative memory, can be inactivated and reactivated by
LTD and LTP, respectively. We began by conditioning an animal to associate a foot
shock with optogenetic stimulation of auditory inputs targeting the amygdala, a
brain region known to be essential for fear conditioning. Subsequent optogenetic 
delivery of LTD conditioning to the auditory input inactivates memory of the
shock. Then subsequent optogenetic delivery of LTP conditioning to the auditory
input reactivates memory of the shock. Thus, we have engineered inactivation and 
reactivation of a memory using LTD and LTP, supporting a causal link between
these synaptic processes and memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13294 
PMCID: PMC4210354
PMID: 24896183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):362-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13374. Epub 2014 Jun 1.

BRCA2 prevents R-loop accumulation and associates with TREX-2 mRNA export factor 
PCID2.

Bhatia V(1), Barroso SI(1), García-Rubio ML(1), Tumini E(1), Herrera-Moyano E(1),
Aguilera A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro Andaluz de Biología Molecular y Medicina Regenerativa CABIMER,
Universidad de Sevilla, Avenida Américo Vespucio s/n, 41092 Seville, Spain.

Genome instability is central to ageing, cancer and other diseases. It is not
only proteins involved in DNA replication or the DNA damage response (DDR) that
are important for maintaining genome integrity: from yeast to higher eukaryotes, 
mutations in genes involved in pre-mRNA splicing and in the biogenesis and export
of messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) also induce DNA damage and genome
instability. This instability is frequently mediated by R-loops formed by DNA-RNA
hybrids and a displaced single-stranded DNA. Here we show that the human TREX-2
complex, which is involved in mRNP biogenesis and export, prevents genome
instability as determined by the accumulation of γ-H2AX (Ser-139 phosphorylated
histone H2AX) and 53BP1 foci and single-cell electrophoresis in cells depleted of
the TREX-2 subunits PCID2, GANP and DSS1. We show that the BRCA2 repair factor,
which binds to DSS1, also associates with PCID2 in the cell. The use of an
enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged hybrid-binding domain of RNase H1 and
the S9.6 antibody did not detect R-loops in TREX-2-depleted cells, but did detect
the accumulation of R-loops in BRCA2-depleted cells. The results indicate that
R-loops are frequently formed in cells and that BRCA2 is required for their
processing. This link between BRCA2 and RNA-mediated genome instability indicates
that R-loops may be a chief source of replication stress and cancer-associated
instability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13374 
PMID: 24896180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):344-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13394. Epub 2014 Jun 4.

Genome sequencing identifies major causes of severe intellectual disability.

Gilissen C(1), Hehir-Kwa JY(1), Thung DT(2), van de Vorst M(2), van Bon BW(2),
Willemsen MH(2), Kwint M(2), Janssen IM(2), Hoischen A(2), Schenck A(2), Leach
R(3), Klein R(3), Tearle R(3), Bo T(4), Pfundt R(2), Yntema HG(2), de Vries
BB(2), Kleefstra T(2), Brunner HG(5), Vissers LE(1), Veltman JA(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Human Genetics, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences
and Donders Centre for Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, Geert
Grooteplein 10, 6525 GA Nijmegen, the Netherlands [2].
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences
and Donders Centre for Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, Geert
Grooteplein 10, 6525 GA Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(3)Complete Genomics Inc. 2071 Stierlin Court, Mountain View, California 94043,
USA.
(4)1] Department of Human Genetics, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences
and Donders Centre for Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, Geert
Grooteplein 10, 6525 GA Nijmegen, the Netherlands [2] State Key Laboratory of
Medical Genetics, Central South University. 110 Xiangya Road, Changsha, Hunan
410078, China.
(5)1] Department of Human Genetics, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences
and Donders Centre for Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, Geert
Grooteplein 10, 6525 GA Nijmegen, the Netherlands [2] Department of Clinical
Genetics, Maastricht University Medical Centre. Universiteitssingel 50, 6229 ER
Maastricht, the Netherlands [3].

Severe intellectual disability (ID) occurs in 0.5% of newborns and is thought to 
be largely genetic in origin. The extensive genetic heterogeneity of this
disorder requires a genome-wide detection of all types of genetic variation.
Microarray studies and, more recently, exome sequencing have demonstrated the
importance of de novo copy number variations (CNVs) and single-nucleotide
variations (SNVs) in ID, but the majority of cases remain undiagnosed. Here we
applied whole-genome sequencing to 50 patients with severe ID and their
unaffected parents. All patients included had not received a molecular diagnosis 
after extensive genetic prescreening, including microarray-based CNV studies and 
exome sequencing. Notwithstanding this prescreening, 84 de novo SNVs affecting
the coding region were identified, which showed a statistically significant
enrichment of loss-of-function mutations as well as an enrichment for genes
previously implicated in ID-related disorders. In addition, we identified eight
de novo CNVs, including single-exon and intra-exonic deletions, as well as
interchromosomal duplications. These CNVs affected known ID genes more frequently
than expected. On the basis of diagnostic interpretation of all de novo variants,
a conclusive genetic diagnosis was reached in 20 patients. Together with one
compound heterozygous CNV causing disease in a recessive mode, this results in a 
diagnostic yield of 42% in this extensively studied cohort, and 62% as a
cumulative estimate in an unselected cohort. These results suggest that de novo
SNVs and CNVs affecting the coding region are a major cause of severe ID. Genome 
sequencing can be applied as a single genetic test to reliably identify and
characterize the comprehensive spectrum of genetic variation, providing a genetic
diagnosis in the majority of patients with severe ID.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13394 
PMID: 24896178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):228-31. doi: 10.1038/nature13529. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

A dynamic model of bovine tuberculosis spread and control in Great Britain.

Brooks-Pollock E(1), Roberts GO(2), Keeling MJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Disease Dynamics Unit, Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0ES, UK [2] WIDER Centre, Mathematics
Institute and School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Road,
Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.
(2)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry
CV4 7AL, UK.
(3)WIDER Centre, Mathematics Institute and School of Life Sciences, University of
Warwick, Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):158-9.

Bovine tuberculosis (TB) is one of the most complex, persistent and controversial
problems facing the British cattle industry, costing the country an estimated
£100 million per year. The low sensitivity of the standard diagnostic test leads 
to considerable ambiguity in determining the main transmission routes of
infection, which exacerbates the continuing scientific debate. In turn this
uncertainty fuels the fierce public and political disputes on the necessity of
controlling badgers to limit the spread of infection. Here we present a dynamic
stochastic spatial model for bovine TB in Great Britain that combines within-farm
and between-farm transmission. At the farm scale the model incorporates
stochastic transmission of infection, maintenance of infection in the environment
and a testing protocol that mimics historical government policy. Between-farm
transmission has a short-range environmental component and is explicitly driven
by movements of individual cattle between farms, as recorded in the Cattle
Tracing System. The resultant model replicates the observed annual increase of
infection over time as well as the spread of infection into new areas. Given that
our model is mechanistic, it can ascribe transmission pathways to each new case; 
the majority of newly detected cases involve several transmission routes with
moving infected cattle, reinfection from an environmental reservoir and poor
sensitivity of the diagnostic test all having substantive roles. This underpins
our findings on the implications of control measures. Very few of the control
options tested have the potential to reverse the observed annual increase, with
only intensive strategies such as whole-herd culling or additional national
testing proving highly effective, whereas controls focused on a single
transmission route are unlikely to be highly effective.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13529 
PMID: 25008532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):224-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13491.

Amphibians acquire resistance to live and dead fungus overcoming fungal
immunosuppression.

McMahon TA(1), Sears BF(2), Venesky MD(3), Bessler SM(2), Brown JM(2), Deutsch
K(2), Halstead NT(2), Lentz G(2), Tenouri N(2), Young S(2), Civitello DJ(2),
Ortega N(2), Fites JS(4), Reinert LK(5), Rollins-Smith LA(6), Raffel TR(7), Rohr 
JR(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] University of South Florida, Department of Integrative Biology, Tampa,
Florida 33620, USA [2] University of Tampa, Department of Biology, Tampa, Florida
33606, USA [3].
(2)University of South Florida, Department of Integrative Biology, Tampa, Florida
33620, USA.
(3)Allegheny College, Department of Biology, Meadville, Pennsylvania 16335, USA.
(4)Vanderbilt University, Biological Sciences Department, Nashville, Tennessee
37232, USA.
(5)Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine, Departments of Pathology,
Microbiology and Immunology and Pediatrics, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(6)1] Vanderbilt University, Biological Sciences Department, Nashville, Tennessee
37232, USA [2] Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine, Departments of
Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology and Pediatrics, Nashville, Tennessee
37232, USA.
(7)Oakland University, Department of Biology, Rochester, Michigan 48309, USA.
(8)1] University of South Florida, Department of Integrative Biology, Tampa,
Florida 33620, USA [2].

Emerging fungal pathogens pose a greater threat to biodiversity than any other
parasitic group, causing declines of many taxa, including bats, corals, bees,
snakes and amphibians. Currently, there is little evidence that wild animals can 
acquire resistance to these pathogens. Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis is a
pathogenic fungus implicated in the recent global decline of amphibians. Here we 
demonstrate that three species of amphibians can acquire behavioural or
immunological resistance to B. dendrobatidis. Frogs learned to avoid the fungus
after just one B. dendrobatidis exposure and temperature-induced clearance. In
subsequent experiments in which B. dendrobatidis avoidance was prevented, the
number of previous exposures was a negative predictor of B. dendrobatidis burden 
on frogs and B. dendrobatidis-induced mortality, and was a positive predictor of 
lymphocyte abundance and proliferation. These results suggest that amphibians can
acquire immunity to B. dendrobatidis that overcomes pathogen-induced
immunosuppression and increases their survival. Importantly, exposure to dead
fungus induced a similar magnitude of acquired resistance as exposure to live
fungus. Exposure of frogs to B. dendrobatidis antigens might offer a practical
way to protect pathogen-naive amphibians and facilitate the reintroduction of
amphibians to locations in the wild where B. dendrobatidis persists. Moreover,
given the conserved nature of vertebrate immune responses to fungi and the fact
that many animals are capable of learning to avoid natural enemies, these results
offer hope that other wild animal taxa threatened by invasive fungi might be
rescued by management approaches based on herd immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13491 
PMCID: PMC4464781
PMID: 25008531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):220-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13530. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

Cooperating with the future.

Hauser OP(1), Rand DG(2), Peysakhovich A(3), Nowak MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511,
USA [2] Department of Economics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511,
USA [3].
(3)1] Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Psychology, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(4)1] Program for Evolutionary Dynamics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Department of
Mathematics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):165-6.

Overexploitation of renewable resources today has a high cost on the welfare of
future generations. Unlike in other public goods games, however, future
generations cannot reciprocate actions made today. What mechanisms can maintain
cooperation with the future? To answer this question, we devise a new
experimental paradigm, the 'Intergenerational Goods Game'. A line-up of
successive groups (generations) can each either extract a resource to exhaustion 
or leave something for the next group. Exhausting the resource maximizes the
payoff for the present generation, but leaves all future generations
empty-handed. Here we show that the resource is almost always destroyed if
extraction decisions are made individually. This failure to cooperate with the
future is driven primarily by a minority of individuals who extract far more than
what is sustainable. In contrast, when extractions are democratically decided by 
vote, the resource is consistently sustained. Voting is effective for two
reasons. First, it allows a majority of cooperators to restrain defectors.
Second, it reassures conditional cooperators that their efforts are not futile.
Voting, however, only promotes sustainability if it is binding for all involved. 
Our results have implications for policy interventions designed to sustain
intergenerational public goods.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13530 
PMID: 25008530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):216-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13462.

Strong contributions of local background climate to urban heat islands.

Zhao L(1), Lee X(1), Smith RB(2), Oleson K(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Yale-NUIST Center on Atmospheric Environment, Nanjing University of
Information Science and Technology, Nanjing 210044, China [2] School of Forestry 
and Environmental Studies, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.
(2)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06511, USA.
(3)National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):163.

The urban heat island (UHI), a common phenomenon in which surface temperatures
are higher in urban areas than in surrounding rural areas, represents one of the 
most significant human-induced changes to Earth's surface climate. Even though
they are localized hotspots in the landscape, UHIs have a profound impact on the 
lives of urban residents, who comprise more than half of the world's population. 
A barrier to UHI mitigation is the lack of quantitative attribution of the
various contributions to UHI intensity (expressed as the temperature difference
between urban and rural areas, ΔT). A common perception is that reduction in
evaporative cooling in urban land is the dominant driver of ΔT (ref. 5). Here we 
use a climate model to show that, for cities across North America, geographic
variations in daytime ΔT are largely explained by variations in the efficiency
with which urban and rural areas convect heat to the lower atmosphere. If urban
areas are aerodynamically smoother than surrounding rural areas, urban heat
dissipation is relatively less efficient and urban warming occurs (and vice
versa). This convection effect depends on the local background climate,
increasing daytime ΔT by 3.0 ± 0.3 kelvin (mean and standard error) in humid
climates but decreasing ΔT by 1.5 ± 0.2 kelvin in dry climates. In the humid
eastern United States, there is evidence of higher ΔT in drier years. These
relationships imply that UHIs will exacerbate heatwave stress on human health in 
wet climates where high temperature effects are already compounded by high air
humidity and in drier years when positive temperature anomalies may be reinforced
by a precipitation-temperature feedback. Our results support albedo management as
a viable means of reducing ΔT on large scales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13462 
PMID: 25008529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13482. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Quantification of dissolved iron sources to the North Atlantic Ocean.

Conway TM(1), John SG(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of South Carolina,
Columbia, South Carolina 29208, USA [2] Institute of Geochemistry and Petrology, 
Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich, NW D81.4, Clausiusstrasse 25, 8092
Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of South Carolina,
Columbia, South Carolina 29208, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):164-5.

Dissolved iron is an essential micronutrient for marine phytoplankton, and its
availability controls patterns of primary productivity and carbon cycling
throughout the oceans. The relative importance of different sources of iron to
the oceans is not well known, however, and flux estimates from atmospheric dust, 
hydrothermal vents and oceanic sediments vary by orders of magnitude. Here we
present a high-resolution transect of dissolved stable iron isotope ratios
(δ(56)Fe) and iron concentrations ([Fe]) along a section of the North Atlantic
Ocean. The different iron sources can be identified by their unique δ(56)Fe
signatures, which persist throughout the water column. This allows us to
calculate the relative contribution from dust, hydrothermal venting and reductive
and non-reductive sedimentary release to the dissolved phase. We find that
Saharan dust aerosol is the dominant source of dissolved iron along the section, 
contributing 71-87 per cent of dissolved iron. Additional sources of iron are
non-reductive release from oxygenated sediments on the North American margin
(10-19 per cent), reductive sedimentary dissolution on the African margin
(1-4 per cent) and hydrothermal venting at the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (2-6 per cent).
Our data also indicate that hydrothermal vents in the North Atlantic are a source
of isotopically light iron, which travels thousands of kilometres from vent
sites, potentially influencing surface productivity. Changes in the relative
importance of the different iron sources through time may affect interactions
between the carbon cycle and climate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13482 
PMID: 25008528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):206-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13487.

An optoelectronic framework enabled by low-dimensional phase-change films.

Hosseini P(1), Wright CD(2), Bhaskaran H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PH, UK.
(2)College of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences, University of
Exeter, Harrison Building, North Park Road, Exeter EX4 4QF, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):159-60.

The development of materials whose refractive index can be optically transformed 
as desired, such as chalcogenide-based phase-change materials, has revolutionized
the media and data storage industries by providing inexpensive, high-speed,
portable and reliable platforms able to store vast quantities of data.
Phase-change materials switch between two solid states--amorphous and
crystalline--in response to a stimulus, such as heat, with an associated change
in the physical properties of the material, including optical absorption,
electrical conductance and Young's modulus. The initial applications of these
materials (particularly the germanium antimony tellurium alloy Ge2Sb2Te5)
exploited the reversible change in their optical properties in rewritable optical
data storage technologies. More recently, the change in their electrical
conductivity has also been extensively studied in the development of non-volatile
phase-change memories. Here we show that by combining the optical and electronic 
property modulation of such materials, display and data visualization
applications that go beyond data storage can be created. Using extremely thin
phase-change materials and transparent conductors, we demonstrate electrically
induced stable colour changes in both reflective and semi-transparent modes.
Further, we show how a pixelated approach can be used in displays on both rigid
and flexible films. This optoelectronic framework using low-dimensional
phase-change materials has many likely applications, such as ultrafast, entirely 
solid-state displays with nanometre-scale pixels, semi-transparent 'smart'
glasses, 'smart' contact lenses and artificial retina devices.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13487 
PMID: 25008527 


495. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):202-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13461.

Quasiparticle engineering and entanglement propagation in a quantum many-body
system.

Jurcevic P(1), Lanyon BP(1), Hauke P(2), Hempel C(3), Zoller P(2), Blatt R(3),
Roos CF(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut für Quantenoptik und Quanteninformation, Österreichische Akademie 
der Wissenschaften, Technikerstraße 21a, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria [2] Institut für
Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstraße 25, 6020 Innsbruck,
Austria [3].
(2)1] Institut für Quantenoptik und Quanteninformation, Österreichische Akademie 
der Wissenschaften, Technikerstraße 21a, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria [2] Institut für
Theoretische Physik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstraße 25, 6020 Innsbruck,
Austria.
(3)1] Institut für Quantenoptik und Quanteninformation, Österreichische Akademie 
der Wissenschaften, Technikerstraße 21a, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria [2] Institut für
Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, Technikerstraße 25, 6020 Innsbruck,
Austria.

The key to explaining and controlling a range of quantum phenomena is to study
how information propagates around many-body systems. Quantum dynamics can be
described by particle-like carriers of information that emerge in the collective 
behaviour of the underlying system, the so-called quasiparticles. These
elementary excitations are predicted to distribute quantum information in a
fashion determined by the system's interactions. Here we report quasiparticle
dynamics observed in a quantum many-body system of trapped atomic ions. First, we
observe the entanglement distributed by quasiparticles as they trace out
light-cone-like wavefronts. Second, using the ability to tune the interaction
range in our system, we observe information propagation in an experimental regime
where the effective-light-cone picture does not apply. Our results will enable
experimental studies of a range of quantum phenomena, including transport,
thermalization, localization and entanglement growth, and represent a first step 
towards a new quantum-optic regime of engineered quasiparticles with tunable
nonlinear interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13461 
PMID: 25008526 


496. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):198-201. doi: 10.1038/nature13450.

Non-local propagation of correlations in quantum systems with long-range
interactions.

Richerme P(1), Gong ZX(1), Lee A(1), Senko C(1), Smith J(1), Foss-Feig M(1),
Michalakis S(2), Gorshkov AV(1), Monroe C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Quantum Institute, University of Maryland Department of Physics and
National Institute of Standards and Technology, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA.
(2)Institute for Quantum Information and Matter, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

The maximum speed with which information can propagate in a quantum many-body
system directly affects how quickly disparate parts of the system can become
correlated and how difficult the system will be to describe numerically. For
systems with only short-range interactions, Lieb and Robinson derived a
constant-velocity bound that limits correlations to within a linear effective
'light cone'. However, little is known about the propagation speed in systems
with long-range interactions, because analytic solutions rarely exist and because
the best long-range bound is too loose to accurately describe the relevant
dynamical timescales for any known spin model. Here we apply a variable-range
Ising spin chain Hamiltonian and a variable-range XY spin chain Hamiltonian to a 
far-from-equilibrium quantum many-body system and observe its time evolution. For
several different interaction ranges, we determine the spatial and time-dependent
correlations, extract the shape of the light cone and measure the velocity with
which correlations propagate through the system. This work opens the possibility 
for studying a wide range of many-body dynamics in quantum systems that are
otherwise intractable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13450 
PMID: 25008525 


497. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):191-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13548. Epub 2014 Jun 22.

NMDA receptor structures reveal subunit arrangement and pore architecture.

Lee CH(1), Lü W(1), Michel JC(2), Goehring A(2), Du J(3), Song X(3), Gouaux E(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Vollum Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2].
(2)1] Vollum Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson
Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland,
Oregon 97239, USA.
(3)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park
Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are Hebbian-like coincidence detectors,
requiring binding of glycine and glutamate in combination with the relief of
voltage-dependent magnesium block to open an ion conductive pore across the
membrane bilayer. Despite the importance of the NMDA receptor in the development 
and function of the brain, a molecular structure of an intact receptor has
remained elusive. Here we present X-ray crystal structures of the Xenopus laevis 
GluN1-GluN2B NMDA receptor with the allosteric inhibitor, Ro25-6981, partial
agonists and the ion channel blocker, MK-801. Receptor subunits are arranged in a
1-2-1-2 fashion, demonstrating extensive interactions between the amino-terminal 
and ligand-binding domains. The transmembrane domains harbour a closed-blocked
ion channel, a pyramidal central vestibule lined by residues implicated in
binding ion channel blockers and magnesium, and a ∼twofold symmetric arrangement 
of ion channel pore loops. These structures provide new insights into the
architecture, allosteric coupling and ion channel function of NMDA receptors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13548 
PMCID: PMC4263351
PMID: 25008524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):177-83. doi: 10.1038/nature13551. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Abnormalities in human pluripotent cells due to reprogramming mechanisms.

Ma H(1), Morey R(2), O'Neil RC(3), He Y(3), Daughtry B(4), Schultz MD(5),
Hariharan M(5), Nery JR(5), Castanon R(5), Sabatini K(6), Thiagarajan RD(6),
Tachibana M(7), Kang E(4), Tippner-Hedges R(4), Ahmed R(4), Gutierrez NM(4), Van 
Dyken C(4), Polat A(7), Sugawara A(8), Sparman M(8), Gokhale S(9), Amato P(10),
Wolf DP(8), Ecker JR(11), Laurent LC(6), Mitalipov S(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Embryonic Cell and Gene Therapy, Oregon Health & Science
University, 3303 Southwest Bond Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2] Division 
of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate Research
Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 Northwest 185th Avenue,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Reproductive Medicine, University of California, San Diego,
Sanford Consortium for Regenerative Medicine, 2880 Torrey Pines Scenic Drive, La 
Jolla, California 92037, USA [2].
(3)1] Genomic Analysis Laboratory, the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La 
Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Bioinformatics Program, University of California
at San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(4)1] Center for Embryonic Cell and Gene Therapy, Oregon Health & Science
University, 3303 Southwest Bond Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2] Division 
of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate Research
Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 Northwest 185th Avenue,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA.
(5)Genomic Analysis Laboratory, the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(6)Department of Reproductive Medicine, University of California, San Diego,
Sanford Consortium for Regenerative Medicine, 2880 Torrey Pines Scenic Drive, La 
Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(7)1] Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National
Primate Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 Northwest 185th 
Avenue, Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA [2] Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
South Miyagi Medical Center, Shibata-gun, Miyagi 989-1253, Japan (M.T.);
Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Karolinska Institutet, SE-17177
Stockholm, Sweden (A.P.).
(8)Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate
Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 Northwest 185th Avenue, 
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA.
(9)University Pathologists LLC, Boston University School of Medicine, Roger
Williams Medical Center, Providence, Rhode Island 02118, USA.
(10)Division of Reproductive Endocrinology, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 Southwest Sam Jackson Park
Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(11)1] Genomic Analysis Laboratory, the Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, the Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(12)1] Center for Embryonic Cell and Gene Therapy, Oregon Health & Science
University, 3303 Southwest Bond Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA [2] Division 
of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate Research
Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 Northwest 185th Avenue,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA [3] Division of Reproductive Endocrinology,
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health & Science University, 3181
Southwest Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):160-2.

Human pluripotent stem cells hold potential for regenerative medicine, but
available cell types have significant limitations. Although embryonic stem cells 
(ES cells) from in vitro fertilized embryos (IVF ES cells) represent the 'gold
standard', they are allogeneic to patients. Autologous induced pluripotent stem
cells (iPS cells) are prone to epigenetic and transcriptional aberrations. To
determine whether such abnormalities are intrinsic to somatic cell reprogramming 
or secondary to the reprogramming method, genetically matched sets of human IVF
ES cells, iPS cells and nuclear transfer ES cells (NT ES cells) derived by
somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) were subjected to genome-wide analyses. Both
NT ES cells and iPS cells derived from the same somatic cells contained
comparable numbers of de novo copy number variations. In contrast, DNA
methylation and transcriptome profiles of NT ES cells corresponded closely to
those of IVF ES cells, whereas iPS cells differed and retained residual DNA
methylation patterns typical of parental somatic cells. Thus, human somatic cells
can be faithfully reprogrammed to pluripotency by SCNT and are therefore ideal
for cell replacement therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13551 
PMCID: PMC4898064
PMID: 25008523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):167-76. doi: 10.1038/nature13312.

Metabolism of stromal and immune cells in health and disease.

Ghesquière B(1), Wong BW(1), Kuchnio A(1), Carmeliet P(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Angiogenesis and Neurovascular Link, Vesalius Research
Center, Department of Oncology, University of Leuven, Leuven B-3000, Belgium [2] 
Laboratory of Angiogenesis and Neurovascular Link, Vesalius Research Center, VIB,
Leuven B-3000, Belgium.

Cancer cells have been at the centre of cell metabolism research, but the
metabolism of stromal and immune cells has received less attention. Nonetheless, 
these cells influence the progression of malignant, inflammatory and metabolic
disorders. Here we discuss the metabolic adaptations of stromal and immune cells 
in health and disease, and highlight how metabolism determines their
differentiation and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13312 
PMID: 25008522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):184-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13323.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor control of a disease tolerance defence pathway.

Bessede A(1), Gargaro M(2), Pallotta MT(3), Matino D(3), Servillo G(3), Brunacci 
C(3), Bicciato S(4), Mazza EM(4), Macchiarulo A(5), Vacca C(3), Iannitti R(3),
Tissi L(3), Volpi C(3), Belladonna ML(3), Orabona C(3), Bianchi R(3), Lanz TV(6),
Platten M(6), Della Fazia MA(3), Piobbico D(3), Zelante T(3), Funakoshi H(7),
Nakamura T(8), Gilot D(9), Denison MS(10), Guillemin GJ(11), DuHadaway JB(12),
Prendergast GC(12), Metz R(13), Geffard M(14), Boon L(15), Pirro M(16), Iorio
A(17), Veyret B(14), Romani L(3), Grohmann U(3), Fallarino F(3), Puccetti P(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, 06132 Perugia, 
Italy [2] IMS Laboratory, University of Bordeaux, 33607 Pessac, France [3].
(2)1] Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, 06132 Perugia, 
Italy [2].
(3)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, 06132 Perugia,
Italy.
(4)Center for Genome Research, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 41125
Modena, Italy.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Technology of Drugs, University of Perugia, 06123 
Perugia, Italy.
(6)1] Experimental Neuroimmunology Unit, German Cancer Research Center, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany [2] Department of Neurooncology, University Hospital, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(7)Center for Advanced Research and Education, Asahikawa Medical University,
078-8510 Asahikawa, Japan.
(8)Kringle Pharma Joint Research Division for Regenerative Drug Discovery, Center
for Advanced Science and Innovation, Osaka University, 565-0871 Osaka, Japan.
(9)CNRS UMR6290, Institut de Génétique et Développement de Rennes, Université de 
Rennes 1, 35043 Rennes, France.
(10)Department of Environmental Toxicology, University of California, Davis,
95616 California, USA.
(11)Australian School of Advanced Medicine (ASAM), Macquarie University, 2109 New
South Wales, Australia.
(12)Lankenau Institute for Medical Research, Wynnewood, 19096 Pennsylvania, USA.
(13)New Link Genetics Corporation, Ames, 50010 Iowa, USA.
(14)IMS Laboratory, University of Bordeaux, 33607 Pessac, France.
(15)Bioceros, 3584 Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(16)Department of Medicine, University of Perugia, 06132 Perugia, Italy.
(17)Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster University,
Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada.

Comment in
    Immunity. 2014 Aug 21;41(2):176-8.
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(17):2645-6.
    Sci Transl Med. 2014 Aug 20;6(250):.

Disease tolerance is the ability of the host to reduce the effect of infection on
host fitness. Analysis of disease tolerance pathways could provide new approaches
for treating infections and other inflammatory diseases. Typically, an initial
exposure to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces a state of refractoriness 
to further LPS challenge (endotoxin tolerance). We found that a first exposure of
mice to LPS activated the ligand-operated transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon
receptor (AhR) and the hepatic enzyme tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase, which provided 
an activating ligand to the former, to downregulate early inflammatory gene
expression. However, on LPS rechallenge, AhR engaged in long-term regulation of
systemic inflammation only in the presence of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1
(IDO1). AhR-complex-associated Src kinase activity promoted IDO1 phosphorylation 
and signalling ability. The resulting endotoxin-tolerant state was found to
protect mice against immunopathology in Gram-negative and Gram-positive
infections, pointing to a role for AhR in contributing to host fitness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13323 
PMCID: PMC4098076
PMID: 24930766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):246-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13305. Epub 2014 Jun 8.

SOX2 controls tumour initiation and cancer stem-cell functions in squamous-cell
carcinoma.

Boumahdi S(1), Driessens G(2), Lapouge G(2), Rorive S(3), Nassar D(1), Le Mercier
M(4), Delatte B(5), Caauwe A(1), Lenglez S(1), Nkusi E(1), Brohée S(6), Salmon
I(3), Dubois C(1), del Marmol V(7), Fuks F(5), Beck B(1), Blanpain C(8).

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles, IRIBHM, Brussels B-1070, Belgium.
(2)1] Université Libre de Bruxelles, IRIBHM, Brussels B-1070, Belgium [2].
(3)1] Department of Pathology, Erasme Hospital, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
Brussels B-1070, Belgium [2] DIAPATH-Center for Microscopy and Molecular Imaging 
(CMMI), Gosselies B-6041, Belgium.
(4)Department of Pathology, Erasme Hospital, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
Brussels B-1070, Belgium.
(5)Laboratory of Cancer Epigenetics, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels
B-1070, Belgium.
(6)Machine Learning Group, Computer Science Department, Faculté des Sciences,
Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels B-1050, Belgium.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Erasme Hospital, Université Libre de Bruxelles,
Brussels B-1070, Belgium.
(8)1] Université Libre de Bruxelles, IRIBHM, Brussels B-1070, Belgium [2] WELBIO,
Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels B-1070, Belgium.

Comment in
    EMBO J. 2014 Sep 17;33(18):1984-6.

Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been reported in various cancers, including in skin
squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC). The molecular mechanisms regulating tumour
initiation and stemness are still poorly characterized. Here we find that Sox2, a
transcription factor expressed in various types of embryonic and adult stem
cells, was the most upregulated transcription factor in the CSCs of squamous skin
tumours in mice. SOX2 is absent in normal epidermis but begins to be expressed in
the vast majority of mouse and human pre-neoplastic skin tumours, and continues
to be expressed in a heterogeneous manner in invasive mouse and human SCCs. In
contrast to other SCCs, in which SOX2 is frequently genetically amplified, the
expression of SOX2 in mouse and human skin SCCs is transcriptionally regulated.
Conditional deletion of Sox2 in the mouse epidermis markedly decreases skin
tumour formation after chemical-induced carcinogenesis. Using green fluorescent
protein (GFP) as a reporter of Sox2 transcriptional expression (SOX2-GFP knock-in
mice), we showed that SOX2-expressing cells in invasive SCC are greatly enriched 
in tumour-propagating cells, which further increase upon serial transplantations.
Lineage ablation of SOX2-expressing cells within primary benign and malignant
SCCs leads to tumour regression, consistent with the critical role of
SOX2-expressing cells in tumour maintenance. Conditional Sox2 deletion in
pre-existing skin papilloma and SCC leads to tumour regression and decreases the 
ability of cancer cells to be propagated upon transplantation into
immunodeficient mice, supporting the essential role of SOX2 in regulating CSC
functions. Transcriptional profiling of SOX2-GFP-expressing CSCs and of tumour
epithelial cells upon Sox2 deletion uncovered a gene network regulated by SOX2 in
primary tumour cells in vivo. Chromatin immunoprecipitation identified several
direct SOX2 target genes controlling tumour stemness, survival, proliferation,
adhesion, invasion and paraneoplastic syndrome. We demonstrate that SOX2, by
marking and regulating the functions of skin tumour-initiating cells and CSCs,
establishes a continuum between tumour initiation and progression in primary skin
tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13305 
PMID: 24909994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):232-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13291. Epub 2014 Jun 8.

Horizontal genome transfer as an asexual path to the formation of new species.

Fuentes I(1), Stegemann S(1), Golczyk H(2), Karcher D(3), Bock R(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Pflanzenphysiologie, Am Mühlenberg 1,
D-14476 Potsdam-Golm, Germany [2].
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biotechnology, John Paul II
Catholic University of Lublin, Konstantynow 1I, 20-708 Lublin, Poland.
(3)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Pflanzenphysiologie, Am Mühlenberg 1,
D-14476 Potsdam-Golm, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Aug;15(8):515.

Allopolyploidization, the combination of the genomes from two different species, 
has been a major source of evolutionary innovation and a driver of speciation and
environmental adaptation. In plants, it has also contributed greatly to crop
domestication, as the superior properties of many modern crop plants were
conferred by ancient allopolyploidization events. It is generally thought that
allopolyploidization occurred through hybridization events between species,
accompanied or followed by genome duplication. Although many allopolyploids arose
from closely related species (congeners), there are also allopolyploid species
that were formed from more distantly related progenitor species belonging to
different genera or even different tribes. Here we have examined the possibility 
that allopolyploidization can also occur by asexual mechanisms. We show that upon
grafting--a mechanism of plant-plant interaction that is widespread in
nature--entire nuclear genomes can be transferred between plant cells. We provide
direct evidence for this process resulting in speciation by creating a new
allopolyploid plant species from a herbaceous species and a woody species in the 
nightshade family. The new species is fertile and produces fertile progeny. Our
data highlight natural grafting as a potential asexual mechanism of speciation
and also provide a method for the generation of novel allopolyploid crop species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13291 
PMID: 24909992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):241-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13296. Epub 2014 Jun 4.

Novel somatic and germline mutations in intracranial germ cell tumours.

Wang L(1), Yamaguchi S(2), Burstein MD(3), Terashima K(4), Chang K(1), Ng HK(5), 
Nakamura H(6), He Z(7), Doddapaneni H(1), Lewis L(1), Wang M(1), Suzuki T(8),
Nishikawa R(8), Natsume A(9), Terasaka S(10), Dauser R(11), Whitehead W(11),
Adekunle A(12), Sun J(13), Qiao Y(14), Marth G(14), Muzny DM(1), Gibbs RA(1),
Leal SM(7), Wheeler DA(1), Lau CC(15).

Author information: 
(1)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(2)Texas Children's Cancer and Hematology Centers, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(3)1] Structural and Computational Biology and Molecular Biophysics Program,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Medical Scientist
Training Program, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)1] Texas Children's Cancer and Hematology Centers, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] National Center for Child Health and Development,
Tokyo, 157-8535, Japan.
(5)Department of Anatomical and Cellular Pathology, Prince of Wales Hospital, The
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-0862, Japan.
(7)Center for Statistical Genetics, Department of Molecular and Human Genetics,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, 350-0495,
Japan.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, Nagoya University, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.
(10)Department of Neurosurgery, Hokkaido University, Hokkaido Prefecture,
060-0808, Japan.
(11)Department of Neurosurgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030,
USA.
(12)Department of Pathology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030,
USA.
(13)Medical Scientist Training Program, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
Texas 77030, USA.
(14)Department of Biology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Maryland 02467, USA.
(15)1] Texas Children's Cancer and Hematology Centers, Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Medical Scientist Training Program,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3] Dan L. Duncan Cancer
Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Intracranial germ cell tumours (IGCTs) are a group of rare heterogeneous brain
tumours that are clinically and histologically similar to the more common gonadal
GCTs. IGCTs show great variation in their geographical and gender distribution,
histological composition and treatment outcomes. The incidence of IGCTs is
historically five- to eightfold greater in Japan and other East Asian countries
than in Western countries, with peak incidence near the time of puberty. About
half of the tumours are located in the pineal region. The male-to-female
incidence ratio is approximately 3-4:1 overall, but is even higher for tumours
located in the pineal region. Owing to the scarcity of tumour specimens available
for research, little is currently known about this rare disease. Here we report
the analysis of 62 cases by next-generation sequencing, single nucleotide
polymorphism array and expression array. We find the KIT/RAS signalling pathway
frequently mutated in more than 50% of IGCTs, including novel recurrent somatic
mutations in KIT, its downstream mediators KRAS and NRAS, and its negative
regulator CBL. Novel somatic alterations in the AKT/mTOR pathway included copy
number gains of the AKT1 locus at 14q32.33 in 19% of patients, with corresponding
upregulation of AKT1 expression. We identified loss-of-function mutations in
BCORL1, a transcriptional co-repressor and tumour suppressor. We report
significant enrichment of novel and rare germline variants in JMJD1C, which codes
for a histone demethylase and is a coactivator of the androgen receptor, among
Japanese IGCT patients. This study establishes a molecular foundation for
understanding the biology of IGCTs and suggests potentially promising therapeutic
strategies focusing on the inhibition of KIT/RAS activation and the AKT1/mTOR
pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13296 
PMCID: PMC4532372
PMID: 24896186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):251-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13292. Epub 2014 Jun 1.

Avoidance of ribonucleotide-induced mutations by RNase H2 and Srs2-Exo1
mechanisms.

Potenski CJ(1), Niu H(2), Sung P(3), Klein HL(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University 
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2].
(2)1] Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of Medicine, 
333 Cedar Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2].
(3)Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of Medicine, 333
Cedar Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Srs2 helicase is known to dismantle nucleofilaments of Rad51 recombinase to
prevent spurious recombination events and unwind trinucleotide sequences that are
prone to hairpin formation. Here we document a new, unexpected genome maintenance
role of Srs2 in the suppression of mutations arising from mis-insertion of
ribonucleoside monophosphates during DNA replication. In cells lacking RNase H2, 
Srs2 unwinds DNA from the 5' side of a nick generated by DNA topoisomerase I at a
ribonucleoside monophosphate residue. In addition, Srs2 interacts with and
enhances the activity of the nuclease Exo1, to generate a DNA gap in preparation 
for repair. Srs2-Exo1 thus functions in a new pathway of nick processing-gap
filling that mediates tolerance of ribonucleoside monophosphates in the genome.
Our results have implications for understanding the basis of Aicardi-Goutières
syndrome, which stems from inactivation of the human RNase H2 complex.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13292 
PMCID: PMC4140095
PMID: 24896181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):236-40.

Cntnap4 differentially contributes to GABAergic and dopaminergic synaptic
transmission.

Karayannis T, Au E, Patel JC, Kruglikov I, Markx S, Delorme R, Héron D, Salomon
D, Glessner J, Restituito S, Gordon A, Rodriguez-Murillo L, Roy NC, Gogos JA,
Rudy B, Rice ME, Karayiorgou M, Hakonarson H, Keren B, Huguet G, Bourgeron T,
Hoeffer C, Tsien RW, Peles E, Fishell G.

Although considerable evidence suggests that the chemical synapse is a lynchpin
underlying affective disorders, how molecular insults differentially affect
specific synaptic connections remains poorly understood. For instance, Neurexin
1a and 2 (NRXN1 and NRXN2) and CNTNAP2 (also known as CASPR2), all members of the
neurexin superfamily of transmembrane molecules, have been implicated in
neuropsychiatric disorders. However, their loss leads to deficits that have been 
best characterized with regard to their effect on excitatory cells. Notably,
other disease-associated genes such as BDNF and ERBB4 implicate specific
interneuron synapses in psychiatric disorders. Consistent with this, cortical
interneuron dysfunction has been linked to epilepsy, schizophrenia and autism.
Using a microarray screen that focused upon synapse-associated molecules, we
identified Cntnap4 (contactin associated protein-like 4, also known as Caspr4) as
highly enriched in developing murine interneurons. In this study we show that
Cntnap4 is localized presynaptically and its loss leads to a reduction in the
output of cortical parvalbumin (PV)-positive GABAergic (γ-aminobutyric acid
producing) basket cells. Paradoxically, the loss of Cntnap4 augments midbrain
dopaminergic release in the nucleus accumbens. In Cntnap4 mutant mice, synaptic
defects in these disease-relevant neuronal populations are mirrored by
sensory-motor gating and grooming endophenotypes; these symptoms could be
pharmacologically reversed, providing promise for therapeutic intervention in
psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13248 
PMCID: PMC4281262
PMID: 24870235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13484. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Structural basis for lipopolysaccharide insertion in the bacterial outer
membrane.

Qiao S(1), Luo Q(1), Zhao Y(2), Zhang XC(3), Huang Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, National Center of Protein
Science-Beijing, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100101, China [2] University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101,
China.
(2)1] National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, National Center of Protein
Science-Beijing, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100101, China [2] School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology
of China, Hefei 230027, Anhui, China.
(3)National Laboratory of Biomacromolecules, National Center of Protein
Science-Beijing, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100101, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):37-8.

One of the fundamental properties of biological membranes is the asymmetric
distribution of membrane lipids. In Gram-negative bacteria, the outer leaflet of 
the outer membrane is composed predominantly of lipopolysaccharides (LPS). The
export of LPS requires seven essential lipopolysaccharide transport (Lpt)
proteins to move LPS from the inner membrane, through the periplasm to the
surface. Of the seven Lpt proteins, the LptD-LptE complex is responsible for
inserting LPS into the external leaflet of the outer membrane. Here we report the
crystal structure of the ∼110-kilodalton membrane protein complex LptD-LptE from 
Shigella flexneri at 2.4 Å resolution. The structure reveals an unprecedented
two-protein plug-and-barrel architecture with LptE embedded into a 26-stranded
β-barrel formed by LptD. Importantly, the secondary structures of the first two
β-strands are distorted by two proline residues, weakening their interactions
with neighbouring β-strands and creating a potential portal on the barrel wall
that could allow lateral diffusion of LPS into the outer membrane. The crystal
structure of the LptD-LptE complex opens the door to new antibiotic strategies
targeting the bacterial outer membrane.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13484 
PMID: 24990751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature13489. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

Host-directed therapy of tuberculosis based on interleukin-1 and type I
interferon crosstalk.

Mayer-Barber KD(1), Andrade BB(1), Oland SD(1), Amaral EP(2), Barber DL(3),
Gonzales J(4), Derrick SC(5), Shi R(6), Kumar NP(7), Wei W(6), Yuan X(6), Zhang
G(8), Cai Y(4), Babu S(9), Catalfamo M(10), Salazar AM(11), Via LE(4), Barry CE
3rd(4), Sher A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Immunobiology Section, Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases (LPD), National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Institutes of
Health (NIH), Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)1] Immunobiology Section, Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases (LPD), National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), National Institutes of
Health (NIH), Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2] Department of Immunology,
Biomedical Sciences Institutes, University of Sao Paulo, 05508-900 Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
(3)T Lymphocyte Biology Unit, LPD, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(4)Tuberculosis Research Section, Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Disease,
NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(5)Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(6)Henan Chest Hospital, 450003 Zhengzhou, China.
(7)1] NIH, International Center for Excellence in Research, 600 031 Chennai,
India [2] National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), 600 031
Chennai, India.
(8)Sino-US International Research Center for Tuberculosis, and Henan Public
Health Center, 450003 Zhengzhou, China.
(9)1] NIH, International Center for Excellence in Research, 600 031 Chennai,
India [2] Helminth Immunology Section, LPD, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA.
(10)Clinical and Molecular Retrovirology Section, Laboratory of Immunoregulation,
NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(11)Oncovir Inc., Washington, Washington DC 20008, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):39-40.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Aug;14(8):516.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Aug;13(8):576.

Tuberculosis remains second only to HIV/AIDS as the leading cause of mortality
worldwide due to a single infectious agent. Despite chemotherapy, the global
tuberculosis epidemic has intensified because of HIV co-infection, the lack of an
effective vaccine and the emergence of multi-drug-resistant bacteria. Alternative
host-directed strategies could be exploited to improve treatment efficacy and
outcome, contain drug-resistant strains and reduce disease severity and
mortality. The innate inflammatory response elicited by Mycobacterium
tuberculosis (Mtb) represents a logical host target. Here we demonstrate that
interleukin-1 (IL-1) confers host resistance through the induction of eicosanoids
that limit excessive type I interferon (IFN) production and foster bacterial
containment. We further show that, in infected mice and patients, reduced IL-1
responses and/or excessive type I IFN induction are linked to an eicosanoid
imbalance associated with disease exacerbation. Host-directed immunotherapy with 
clinically approved drugs that augment prostaglandin E2 levels in these settings 
prevented acute mortality of Mtb-infected mice. Thus, IL-1 and type I IFNs
represent two major counter-regulatory classes of inflammatory cytokines that
control the outcome of Mtb infection and are functionally linked via eicosanoids.
Our findings establish proof of concept for host-directed treatment strategies
that manipulate the host eicosanoid network and represent feasible alternatives
to conventional chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13489 
PMCID: PMC4809146
PMID: 24990750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):79-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13467.

New specimen of Archaeopteryx provides insights into the evolution of pennaceous 
feathers.

Foth C(1), Tischlinger H(2), Rauhut OW(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Staatliche Naturwissenschaftliche Sammlungen Bayerns, Bayerische
Staatssammlung für Paläontologie und Geologie, Richard-Wagner-Straße 10, 80333
Munich, Germany [2] Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences and
GeoBioCenter, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Richard-Wagner-Straße 10,
80333 Munich, Germany.
(2)Tannenweg 16, 85134 Stammham, Germany.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Aug 18;24(16):R751-3.

Discoveries of bird-like theropod dinosaurs and basal avialans in recent decades 
have helped to put the iconic 'Urvogel' Archaeopteryx into context and have
yielded important new data on the origin and early evolution of feathers.
However, the biological context under which pennaceous feathers evolved is still 
debated. Here we describe a new specimen of Archaeopteryx with extensive feather 
preservation, not only on the wings and tail, but also on the body and legs. The 
new specimen shows that the entire body was covered in pennaceous feathers, and
that the hindlimbs had long, symmetrical feathers along the tibiotarsus but short
feathers on the tarsometatarsus. Furthermore, the wing plumage demonstrates that 
several recent interpretations are problematic. An analysis of the phylogenetic
distribution of pennaceous feathers on the tail, hindlimb and arms of advanced
maniraptorans and basal avialans strongly indicates that these structures evolved
in a functional context other than flight, most probably in relation to display, 
as suggested by some previous studies. Pennaceous feathers thus represented an
exaptation and were later, in several lineages and following different patterns, 
recruited for aerodynamic functions. This indicates that the origin of flight in 
avialans was more complex than previously thought and might have involved several
convergent achievements of aerial abilities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13467 
PMID: 24990749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):75-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13472.

Abrupt pre-Bølling-Allerød warming and circulation changes in the deep ocean.

Thiagarajan N(1), Subhas AV(1), Southon JR(2), Eiler JM(1), Adkins JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(2)Earth System Science Department, 3200 Croul Hall, University of California,
Irvine, California 92697-3100, USA.

Several large and rapid changes in atmospheric temperature and the partial
pressure of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere--probably linked to changes in deep 
ocean circulation--occurred during the last deglaciation. The abrupt temperature 
rise in the Northern Hemisphere and the restart of the Atlantic meridional
overturning circulation at the start of the Bølling-Allerød interstadial, 14,700 
years ago, are among the most dramatic deglacial events, but their underlying
physical causes are not known. Here we show that the release of heat from warm
waters in the deep North Atlantic Ocean probably triggered the Bølling-Allerød
warming and reinvigoration of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation.
Our results are based on coupled radiocarbon and uranium-series dates, along with
clumped isotope temperature estimates, from water column profiles of fossil
deep-sea corals in a limited area of the western North Atlantic. We find that
during Heinrich stadial 1 (the cool period immediately before the Bølling-Allerød
interstadial), the deep ocean was about three degrees Celsius warmer than
shallower waters above. This reversal of the ocean's usual thermal stratification
pre-dates the Bølling-Allerød warming and must have been associated with
increased salinity at depth to preserve the static stability of the water column.
The depleted radiocarbon content of the warm and salty water mass implies a
long-term disconnect from rapid surface exchanges, and, although uncertainties
remain, is most consistent with a Southern Ocean source. The Heinrich stadial 1
ocean profile is distinct from the modern water column, that for the Last Glacial
Maximum and that for the Younger Dryas, suggesting that the patterns we observe
are a unique feature of the deglacial climate system. Our observations indicate
that the deep ocean influenced dramatic Northern Hemisphere warming by storing
heat at depth that preconditioned the system for a subsequent abrupt overturning 
event during the Bølling-Allerød interstadial.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13472 
PMID: 24990748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):70-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13407.

Quantum control and process tomography of a semiconductor quantum dot hybrid
qubit.

Kim D(1), Shi Z(1), Simmons CB(1), Ward DR(1), Prance JR(1), Koh TS(1), Gamble
JK(2), Savage DE(3), Lagally MG(3), Friesen M(1), Coppersmith SN(1), Eriksson
MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin
53706, USA.
(2)Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87185, USA.
(3)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

The similarities between gated quantum dots and the transistors in modern
microelectronics--in fabrication methods, physical structure and voltage scales
for manipulation--have led to great interest in the development of quantum bits
(qubits) in semiconductor quantum dots. Although quantum dot spin qubits have
demonstrated long coherence times, their manipulation is often slower than
desired for important future applications, such as factoring. Furthermore,
scalability and manufacturability are enhanced when qubits are as simple as
possible. Previous work has increased the speed of spin qubit rotations by making
use of integrated micromagnets, dynamic pumping of nuclear spins or the addition 
of a third quantum dot. Here we demonstrate a qubit that is a hybrid of spin and 
charge. It is simple, requiring neither nuclear-state preparation nor
micromagnets. Unlike previous double-dot qubits, the hybrid qubit enables fast
rotations about two axes of the Bloch sphere. We demonstrate full control on the 
Bloch sphere with π-rotation times of less than 100 picoseconds in two orthogonal
directions, which is more than an order of magnitude faster than any other
double-dot qubit. The speed arises from the qubit's charge-like characteristics, 
and its spin-like features result in resistance to decoherence over a wide range 
of gate voltages. We achieve full process tomography in our electrically
controlled semiconductor quantum dot qubit, extracting high fidelities of 85 per 
cent for X rotations (transitions between qubit states) and 94 per cent for Z
rotations (phase accumulation between qubit states).

DOI: 10.1038/nature13407 
PMID: 24990747 


511. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):65-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13455.

Giant nonlinear response from plasmonic metasurfaces coupled to intersubband
transitions.

Lee J(1), Tymchenko M(1), Argyropoulos C(1), Chen PY(1), Lu F(1), Demmerle F(2), 
Boehm G(2), Amann MC(2), Alù A(1), Belkin MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, The University of Texas at 
Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(2)Walter Schottky Institut, Technische Universität München, Am Coulombwall 4,
Garching 85748, Germany.

Intersubband transitions in n-doped multi-quantum-well semiconductor
heterostructures make it possible to engineer one of the largest known nonlinear 
optical responses in condensed matter systems--but this nonlinear response is
limited to light with electric field polarized normal to the semiconductor
layers. In a different context, plasmonic metasurfaces (thin conductor-dielectric
composite materials) have been proposed as a way of strongly enhancing
light-matter interaction and realizing ultrathin planarized devices with exotic
wave properties. Here we propose and experimentally realize metasurfaces with a
record-high nonlinear response based on the coupling of electromagnetic modes in 
plasmonic metasurfaces with quantum-engineered electronic intersubband
transitions in semiconductor heterostructures. We show that it is possible to
engineer almost any element of the nonlinear susceptibility tensor of these
structures, and we experimentally verify this concept by realizing a 400-nm-thick
metasurface with nonlinear susceptibility of greater than 5 × 10(4) picometres
per volt for second harmonic generation at a wavelength of about 8 micrometres
under normal incidence. This susceptibility is many orders of magnitude larger
than any second-order nonlinear response in optical metasurfaces measured so far.
The proposed structures can act as ultrathin highly nonlinear optical elements
that enable efficient frequency mixing with relaxed phase-matching conditions,
ideal for realizing broadband frequency up- and down-conversions, phase
conjugation and all-optical control and tunability over a surface.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13455 
PMID: 24990746 


512. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):57-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13454. Epub 2014 Jun 25.

A close-pair binary in a distant triple supermassive black hole system.

Deane RP(1), Paragi Z(2), Jarvis MJ(3), Coriat M(1), Bernardi G(4), Fender RP(5),
Frey S(6), Heywood I(7), Klöckner HR(8), Grainge K(9), Rumsey C(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Astrophysics, Cosmology and Gravity Centre, Department of Astronomy,
University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, 7701, Cape Town, South Africa [2] Square
Kilometre Array South Africa, Pinelands, 7405, Cape Town, South Africa.
(2)Joint Institute for VLBI in Europe, 7990 AA, Dwingeloo, The Netherlands.
(3)1] Astrophysics, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RH, 
UK [2] Physics Department, University of the Western Cape, Belville, 7535, South 
Africa.
(4)1] Square Kilometre Array South Africa, Pinelands, 7405, Cape Town, South
Africa [2] Centre for Radio Astronomy Techniques and Technologies, Department of 
Physics and Electronics, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa [3]
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(5)Astrophysics, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RH, UK.
(6)Satellite Geodetic Observatory, Institute of Geodesy, Cartography and Remote
Sensing, H-1592, Budapest, Hungary.
(7)1] Centre for Radio Astronomy Techniques and Technologies, Department of
Physics and Electronics, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa [2]
Australia Telescope National Facility, CSIRO Astronomy and Space Science, Epping,
New South Wales 1710, Australia.
(8)Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie, D-53121 Bonn, Germany.
(9)Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics, School of Physics and Astronomy, The
University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(10)Astrophysics Group, Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):35-7.

Galaxies are believed to evolve through merging, which should lead to some
hosting multiple supermassive black holes. There are four known triple black hole
systems, with the closest black hole pair being 2.4 kiloparsecs apart (the third 
component in this system is at 3 kiloparsecs), which is far from the
gravitational sphere of influence (about 100 parsecs for a black hole with mass
one billion times that of the Sun). Previous searches for compact black hole
systems concluded that they were rare, with the tightest binary system having a
separation of 7 parsecs (ref. 10). Here we report observations of a triple black 
hole system at redshift z = 0.39, with the closest pair separated by about 140
parsecs and significantly more distant from Earth than any other known binary of 
comparable orbital separation. The effect of the tight pair is to introduce a
rotationally symmetric helical modulation on the structure of the large-scale
radio jets, which provides a useful way to search for other tight pairs without
needing extremely high resolution observations. As we found this tight pair after
searching only six galaxies, we conclude that tight pairs are more common than
hitherto believed, which is an important observational constraint for
low-frequency gravitational wave experiments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13454 
PMID: 24990745 


513. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):52-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13464. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Structural basis for outer membrane lipopolysaccharide insertion.

Dong H(1), Xiang Q(2), Gu Y(3), Wang Z(4), Paterson NG(5), Stansfeld PJ(6), He
C(7), Zhang Y(8), Wang W(9), Dong C(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Biomedical Research Centre, Norwich Medical School, University of East
Anglia, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK [2] Biomedical Sciences
Research Complex, School of Chemistry, University of St Andrews, North Haugh, St 
Andrews KY16 9ST, UK.
(2)1] Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, School of Chemistry, University of St
Andrews, North Haugh, St Andrews KY16 9ST, UK [2] Department of Microbiology,
College of Resource and Environment Science, Sichuan Agriculture University, Yaan
625000, China.
(3)Biomedical Research Centre, Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia,
Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK.
(4)1] Biomedical Research Centre, Norwich Medical School, University of East
Anglia, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK [2] Biomedical Sciences
Research Complex, School of Chemistry, University of St Andrews, North Haugh, St 
Andrews KY16 9ST, UK [3] College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu
610065, China.
(5)Diamond Light Source, Harwell Science and Innovation Campus, Didcot OX11 0DE, 
UK.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3QU, UK.
(7)1] Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, School of Chemistry, University of St
Andrews, North Haugh, St Andrews KY16 9ST, UK [2] School of Electronics and
Information, Wuhan Technical College of Communications, No.6 Huangjiahu West
Road, Hongshan District, Wuhan, Hubei 430065, China.
(8)College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China.
(9)Laboratory of Department of Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, 58 Zhongshan Road II, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510080, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):37-8.

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is essential for most Gram-negative bacteria and has
crucial roles in protection of the bacteria from harsh environments and toxic
compounds, including antibiotics. Seven LPS transport proteins (that is,
LptA-LptG) form a trans-envelope protein complex responsible for the transport of
LPS from the inner membrane to the outer membrane, the mechanism for which is
poorly understood. Here we report the first crystal structure of the unique
integral membrane LPS translocon LptD-LptE complex. LptD forms a novel
26-stranded β-barrel, which is to our knowledge the largest β-barrel reported so 
far. LptE adopts a roll-like structure located inside the barrel of LptD to form 
an unprecedented two-protein 'barrel and plug' architecture. The structure,
molecular dynamics simulations and functional assays suggest that the hydrophilic
O-antigen and the core oligosaccharide of the LPS may pass through the barrel and
the lipid A of the LPS may be inserted into the outer leaflet of the outer
membrane through a lateral opening between strands β1 and β26 of LptD. These
findings not only help us to understand important aspects of bacterial outer
membrane biogenesis, but also have significant potential for the development of
novel drugs against multi-drug resistant pathogenic bacteria.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13464 
PMID: 24990744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):46-51. doi: 10.1038/nature13289. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Attenuated sensing of SHH by Ptch1 underlies evolution of bovine limbs.

Lopez-Rios J(1), Duchesne A(2), Speziale D(3), Andrey G(4), Peterson KA(5),
Germann P(6), Unal E(7), Liu J(5), Floriot S(8), Barbey S(9), Gallard Y(9),
Müller-Gerbl M(10), Courtney AD(11), Klopp C(12), Rodriguez S(13), Ivanek R(14), 
Beisel C(6), Wicking C(11), Iber D(6), Robert B(15), McMahon AP(5), Duboule
D(16), Zeller R(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Developmental Genetics, Department Biomedicine, University of Basel,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2].
(2)1] Developmental Genetics, Department Biomedicine, University of Basel,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique,
Génétique Animale et Biologie Intégrative, F-78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France [3].
(3)Developmental Genetics, Department Biomedicine, University of Basel, CH-4058
Basel, Switzerland.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne, CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Eli and Edythe
Broad Center for Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research, Keck School of
Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90089, USA.
(6)Department for Biosystems Science and Engineering, Federal Institute of
Technology Zurich and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, CH-4058 Basel,
Switzerland.
(7)1] Developmental Genetics, Department Biomedicine, University of Basel,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] Department for Biosystems Science and Engineering,
Federal Institute of Technology Zurich and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.
(8)Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Génétique Animale et Biologie
Intégrative, F-78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(9)Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Domaine Expérimental du Pin au 
Haras, F-61310 Exmes, France.
(10)Institute of Anatomy, Department Biomedicine, University of Basel, CH-4056
Basel, Switzerland.
(11)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, St Lucia,
Queensland 4072, Australia.
(12)Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Biométrie et Intelligence
Artificielle, F-31326 Castanet-Tolosan, France.
(13)1] Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, Génétique Animale et
Biologie Intégrative, F-78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France [2] Institut National de la
Recherche Agronomique, Laboratoire d'Ingénierie des Systèmes Biologiques et des
Procédés, F-31077 Toulouse, France.
(14)1] Developmental Genetics, Department Biomedicine, University of Basel,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, CH-4058 Basel, 
Switzerland.
(15)Institut Pasteur, Génétique Moléculaire de la Morphogenèse and Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique URA-2578, F-75015 Paris, France.
(16)1] School of Life Sciences, Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne, CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland [2] Department of Genetics and Evolution, University of
Geneva, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):34-5.

The large spectrum of limb morphologies reflects the wide evolutionary
diversification of the basic pentadactyl pattern in tetrapods. In even-toed
ungulates (artiodactyls, including cattle), limbs are adapted for running as a
consequence of progressive reduction of their distal skeleton to symmetrical and 
elongated middle digits with hoofed phalanges. Here we analyse bovine embryos to 
establish that polarized gene expression is progressively lost during limb
development in comparison to the mouse. Notably, the transcriptional upregulation
of the Ptch1 gene, which encodes a Sonic hedgehog (SHH) receptor, is disrupted
specifically in the bovine limb bud mesenchyme. This is due to evolutionary
alteration of a Ptch1 cis-regulatory module, which no longer responds to graded
SHH signalling during bovine handplate development. Our study provides a
molecular explanation for the loss of digit asymmetry in bovine limb buds and
suggests that modifications affecting the Ptch1 cis-regulatory landscape have
contributed to evolutionary diversification of artiodactyl limbs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13289 
PMID: 24990743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):41-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13496. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Patterning and post-patterning modes of evolutionary digit loss in mammals.

Cooper KL(1), Sears KE(2), Uygur A(3), Maier J(4), Baczkowski KS(5), Brosnahan
M(6), Antczak D(6), Skidmore JA(7), Tabin CJ(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA. [3].
(2)1] Department of Animal Biology, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2].
(4)Department of Animal Biology, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA.
(5)cole Normale Supérieure de Lyon, 69007 Lyon, France.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.
(7)The Camel Reproduction Centre, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(8)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):34-5.

A reduction in the number of digits has evolved many times in tetrapods,
particularly in cursorial mammals that travel over deserts and plains, yet the
underlying developmental mechanisms have remained elusive. Here we show that
digit loss can occur both during early limb patterning and at later
post-patterning stages of chondrogenesis. In the 'odd-toed' jerboa (Dipus
sagitta) and horse and the 'even-toed' camel, extensive cell death sculpts the
tissue around the remaining toes. In contrast, digit loss in the pig is
orchestrated by earlier limb patterning mechanisms including downregulation of
Ptch1 expression but no increase in cell death. Together these data demonstrate
remarkable plasticity in the mechanisms of vertebrate limb evolution and shed
light on the complexity of morphological convergence, particularly within the
artiodactyl lineage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13496 
PMCID: PMC4228958
PMID: 24990742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):61-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13326. Epub 2014 Jun 15.

Normal-state nodal electronic structure in underdoped high-Tc copper oxides.

Sebastian SE(1), Harrison N(2), Balakirev FF(2), Altarawneh MM(3), Goddard PA(4),
Liang R(5), Bonn DA(5), Hardy WN(5), Lonzarich GG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge University, JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge CB3
OHE, UK.
(2)National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory
(LANL), Los Alamos, New Mexico 87504, USA.
(3)1] National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Los Alamos National Laboratory
(LANL), Los Alamos, New Mexico 87504, USA [2] Department of Physics, Mu'tah
University, Mu'tah, Karak 61710, Jordan.
(4)Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry CV4
7AL, UK.
(5)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver V6T 1Z4, Canada [2] Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Quantum
Materials Program, Toronto M5G 1Z8, Canada.

An outstanding problem in the field of high-transition-temperature (high-Tc)
superconductivity is the identification of the normal state out of which
superconductivity emerges in the mysterious underdoped regime. The normal state
uncomplicated by thermal fluctuations can be studied using applied magnetic
fields that are sufficiently strong to suppress long-range superconductivity at
low temperatures. Proposals in which the normal ground state is characterized by 
small Fermi surface pockets that exist in the absence of symmetry breaking have
been superseded by models based on the existence of a superlattice that breaks
the translational symmetry of the underlying lattice. Recently, a charge
superlattice model that positions a small electron-like Fermi pocket in the
vicinity of the nodes (where the superconducting gap is minimum) has been
proposed as a replacement for the prevalent superlattice models that position the
Fermi pocket in the vicinity of the pseudogap at the antinodes (where the
superconducting gap is maximum). Although some ingredients of symmetry breaking
have been recently revealed by crystallographic studies, their relevance to the
electronic structure remains unresolved. Here we report angle-resolved quantum
oscillation measurements in the underdoped copper oxide YBa2Cu3O6 + x. These
measurements reveal a normal ground state comprising electron-like Fermi surface 
pockets located in the vicinity of the nodes, and also point to an underlying
superlattice structure of low frequency and long wavelength with features in
common with the charge order identified recently by complementary spectroscopic
techniques.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13326 
PMID: 24930767 


517. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):83-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13285. Epub 2014 May 25.

Genomic divergence in a ring species complex.

Alcaide M(1), Scordato ES(2), Price TD(3), Irwin DE(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Zoology and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of
British Columbia, 6270 University Boulevard, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4,
Canada [2] Department of Evolutionary Ecology, Estación Biológica de Doñana -
CSIC, Americo Vespucio s/n, 41092 Sevilla, Spain.
(2)1] Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA [2] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, The
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 
60637, USA.
(4)Department of Zoology and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British 
Columbia, 6270 University Boulevard, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada.

Ring species provide particularly clear demonstrations of how one species can
gradually evolve into two, but are rare in nature. In the greenish warbler
(Phylloscopus trochiloides) species complex, a ring of populations wraps around
Tibet. Two reproductively isolated forms co-exist in central Siberia, with a
gradient of genetic and phenotypic characteristics through the southern chain of 
populations connecting them. Previous genetic evidence has proven inconclusive,
however, regarding whether species divergence took place in the face of
continuous gene flow and whether hybridization between the terminal forms of the 
ring ever occurred. Here we use genome-wide analyses to show that, although
spatial patterns of genetic variation are currently mostly as expected of a ring 
species, historical breaks in gene flow have existed at more than one location
around the ring, and the two Siberian forms have occasionally interbred.
Substantial periods of geographical isolation occurred not only in the north but 
also in the western Himalayas, where there is now an extensive hybrid zone
between genetically divergent forms. Limited asymmetric introgression has
occurred directly between the Siberian forms, although it has not caused a
blending of those forms, suggesting selection against introgressed genes in the
novel genetic background. Levels of reproductive isolation and genetic
introgression are consistent with levels of phenotypic divergence around the
ring, with phenotypic similarity and extensive interbreeding across the
southwestern contact zone and strong phenotypic divergence and nearly complete
reproductive isolation across the northern contact zone. These results cast doubt
on the hypothesis that the greenish warbler should be viewed as a rare example of
speciation by distance, but demonstrate that the greenish warbler displays a
continuum from slightly divergent neighbouring populations to almost fully
reproductively isolated species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13285 
PMID: 24870239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13286. Epub 2014 May 25.

RLIM is dispensable for X-chromosome inactivation in the mouse embryonic
epiblast.

Shin J(1), Wallingford MC(2), Gallant J(3), Marcho C(2), Jiao B(4), Byron M(3),
Bossenz M(5), Lawrence JB(3), Jones SN(3), Mager J(2), Bach I(6).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Gene Function and Expression, University of Massachusetts Medical
School (UMMS), Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.
(2)Veterinary & Animal Sciences, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst,
Massachusetts 01003, USA.
(3)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, UMMS, Worcester, Massachusetts
01605, USA.
(4)1] Program in Gene Function and Expression, University of Massachusetts
Medical School (UMMS), Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA [2] Kunming Institute 
of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Science, Kunming 650223, China.
(5)Ortenau Klinikum Lahr-Ettenheim, Institut für Pathologie, 77933 Lahr, Germany.
(6)1] Program in Gene Function and Expression, University of Massachusetts
Medical School (UMMS), Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA [2] Program in
Molecular Medicine, UMMS, Worcester, Massachusetts 01605, USA.

In female mice, two forms of X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) ensure the selective
silencing of female sex chromosomes during mouse embryogenesis. Beginning at the 
four-cell stage, imprinted XCI (iXCI) exclusively silences the paternal X
chromosome. Later, around implantation, epiblast cells of the inner cell mass
that give rise to the embryo reactivate the paternal X chromosome and undergo a
random form of XCI (rXCI). Xist, a long non-coding RNA crucial for both forms of 
XCI, is activated by the ubiquitin ligase RLIM (also known as Rnf12). Although
RLIM is required for triggering iXCI in mice, its importance for rXCI has been
controversial. Here we show that RLIM levels are downregulated in embryonic cells
undergoing rXCI. Using mouse genetics we demonstrate that female cells lacking
RLIM from pre-implantation stages onwards show hallmarks of XCI, including Xist
clouds and H3K27me3 foci, and have full embryogenic potential. These results
provide evidence that RLIM is dispensable for rXCI, indicating that in mice an
RLIM-independent mechanism activates Xist in the embryo proper.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13286 
PMCID: PMC4105192
PMID: 24870238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13283. Epub 2014 May 28.

The sonic hedgehog factor GLI1 imparts drug resistance through inducible
glucuronidation.

Zahreddine HA(1), Culjkovic-Kraljacic B(1), Assouline S(2), Gendron P(1), Romeo
AA(3), Morris SJ(3), Cormack G(1), Jaquith JB(4), Cerchietti L(5), Cocolakis
E(2), Amri A(1), Bergeron J(6), Leber B(7), Becker MW(8), Pei S(9), Jordan CT(9),
Miller WH(2), Borden KL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer and Department of Pathology
and Cell Biology, Université de Montréal, P.O. Box 6128, Downtown Station,
Montréal, Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.
(2)Segal Cancer Centre, Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, McGill
University, 3755 Côte-Ste-Catherine Road, Montréal, Québec H3T 1E2, Canada.
(3)Pharmascience Inc., 6111 Royalmount Avenue, Montreal, Quebec H4P 2T4, Canada.
(4)1] Pharmascience Inc., 6111 Royalmount Avenue, Montreal, Quebec H4P 2T4,
Canada [2] JAQJAM Consulting, Montreal J7V 9B6, Canada.
(5)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell
Medical College, Cornell University, 1305 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, 
USA.
(6)Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont, 5415 Boulevard de l'Assomption, Montréal, Québec
H1T 2M4, Canada.
(7)McMaster University/Hamilton Health Sciences, 237 Barton Street East,
Hamilton, Ontario L8L 2X2, Canada.
(8)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, 601 Elmwood Avenue,
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627, USA.
(9)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, University of Colorado Denver,
13123 East 16th Avenue, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Jul;14(7):452-3.

Drug resistance is a major hurdle in oncology. Responses of acute myeloid
leukaemia (AML) patients to cytarabine (Ara-C)-based therapies are often short
lived with a median overall survival of months. Therapies are under development
to improve outcomes and include targeting the eukaryotic translation initiation
factor (eIF4E) with its inhibitor ribavirin. In a Phase II clinical trial in poor
prognosis AML, ribavirin monotherapy yielded promising responses including
remissions; however, all patients relapsed. Here we identify a novel form of drug
resistance to ribavirin and Ara-C. We observe that the sonic hedgehog
transcription factor glioma-associated protein 1 (GLI1) and the UDP
glucuronosyltransferase (UGT1A) family of enzymes are elevated in resistant
cells. UGT1As add glucuronic acid to many drugs, modifying their activity in
diverse tissues. GLI1 alone is sufficient to drive UGT1A-dependent
glucuronidation of ribavirin and Ara-C, and thus drug resistance. Resistance is
overcome by genetic or pharmacological inhibition of GLI1, revealing a potential 
strategy to overcome drug resistance in some patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13283 
PMCID: PMC4138053
PMID: 24870236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):104-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13284. Epub 2014 May 25.

Analysis of orthologous groups reveals archease and DDX1 as tRNA splicing
factors.

Popow J(1), Jurkin J(2), Schleiffer A(3), Martinez J(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
(IMBA), A-1030 Vienna, Austria [2] European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), 
69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of Sciences
(IMBA), A-1030 Vienna, Austria.
(3)IMP/IMBA Bioinformatics Core Facility, Research Institute of Molecular
Pathology (IMP), A-1030 Vienna, Austria.

RNA ligases have essential roles in many cellular processes in eukaryotes,
archaea and bacteria, including in RNA repair and stress-induced splicing of
messenger RNA. In archaea and eukaryotes, RNA ligases also have a role in
transfer RNA splicing to generate functional tRNAs required for protein
synthesis. We recently identified the human tRNA splicing ligase, a multimeric
protein complex with RTCB (also known as HSPC117, C22orf28, FAAP and D10Wsu52e)
as the essential subunit. The functions of the additional complex components ASW 
(also known as C2orf49), CGI-99 (also known as C14orf166), FAM98B and the
DEAD-box helicase DDX1 in the context of RNA ligation have remained unclear.
Taking advantage of clusters of eukaryotic orthologous groups, here we find that 
archease (ARCH; also known as ZBTB8OS), a protein of unknown function, is
required for full activity of the human tRNA ligase complex and, in cooperation
with DDX1, facilitates the formation of an RTCB-guanylate intermediate central to
mammalian RNA ligation. Our findings define a role for DDX1 in the context of the
human tRNA ligase complex and suggest that the widespread co-occurrence of
archease and RtcB proteins implies evolutionary conservation of their functional 
interplay.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13284 
PMCID: PMC4417724
PMID: 24870230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):94-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13297. Epub 2014 May 21.

Anti-diabetic activity of insulin-degrading enzyme inhibitors mediated by
multiple hormones.

Maianti JP(1), McFedries A(1), Foda ZH(2), Kleiner RE(1), Du XQ(3), Leissring
MA(4), Tang WJ(5), Charron MJ(3), Seeliger MA(2), Saghatelian A(1), Liu DR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacological Sciences, Stony Brook University, 1 Circle Road,
Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris
Park Avenue, Bronx, New York 10461, USA.
(4)Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological Disorders, University of
California, Irvine, 3204 Biological Sciences III, Irvine, California 92697, USA.
(5)Ben-May Department for Cancer Research, University of Chicago, 929 East 57th
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(6)1] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 
Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Aug 5;20(2):201-3.

Despite decades of speculation that inhibiting endogenous insulin degradation
might treat type-2 diabetes, and the identification of IDE (insulin-degrading
enzyme) as a diabetes susceptibility gene, the relationship between the activity 
of the zinc metalloprotein IDE and glucose homeostasis remains unclear. Although 
Ide(-/-) mice have elevated insulin levels, they exhibit impaired, rather than
improved, glucose tolerance that may arise from compensatory insulin signalling
dysfunction. IDE inhibitors that are active in vivo are therefore needed to
elucidate IDE's physiological roles and to determine its potential to serve as a 
target for the treatment of diabetes. Here we report the discovery of a
physiologically active IDE inhibitor identified from a DNA-templated macrocycle
library. An X-ray structure of the macrocycle bound to IDE reveals that it
engages a binding pocket away from the catalytic site, which explains its
remarkable selectivity. Treatment of lean and obese mice with this inhibitor
shows that IDE regulates the abundance and signalling of glucagon and amylin, in 
addition to that of insulin. Under physiological conditions that augment insulin 
and amylin levels, such as oral glucose administration, acute IDE inhibition
leads to substantially improved glucose tolerance and slower gastric emptying.
These findings demonstrate the feasibility of modulating IDE activity as a new
therapeutic strategy to treat type-2 diabetes and expand our understanding of the
roles of IDE in glucose and hormone regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13297 
PMCID: PMC4142213
PMID: 24847884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):560-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13409. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Structural rearrangements of a polyketide synthase module during its catalytic
cycle.

Whicher JR(1), Dutta S(2), Hansen DA(3), Hale WA(4), Chemler JA(5), Dosey AM(5), 
Narayan AR(5), Håkansson K(4), Sherman DH(6), Smith JL(7), Skiniotis G(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Chemical Biology Graduate Program, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA [3].
(2)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2].
(3)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA.
(5)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA.
(6)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA [3] Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [4] Department of Microbiology & Immunology,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(7)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Department of Biological Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):482-3.

The polyketide synthase (PKS) mega-enzyme assembly line uses a modular
architecture to synthesize diverse and bioactive natural products that often
constitute the core structures or complete chemical entities for many clinically 
approved therapeutic agents. The architecture of a full-length PKS module from
the pikromycin pathway of Streptomyces venezuelae creates a reaction chamber for 
the intramodule acyl carrier protein (ACP) domain that carries building blocks
and intermediates between acyltransferase, ketosynthase and ketoreductase active 
sites (see accompanying paper). Here we determine electron cryo-microscopy
structures of a full-length pikromycin PKS module in three key biochemical states
of its catalytic cycle. Each biochemical state was confirmed by bottom-up liquid 
chromatography/Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry. The
ACP domain is differentially and precisely positioned after polyketide chain
substrate loading on the active site of the ketosynthase, after extension to the 
β-keto intermediate, and after β-hydroxy product generation. The structures
reveal the ACP dynamics for sequential interactions with catalytic domains within
the reaction chamber, and for transferring the elongated and processed polyketide
substrate to the next module in the PKS pathway. During the enzymatic cycle the
ketoreductase domain undergoes dramatic conformational rearrangements that enable
optimal positioning for reductive processing of the ACP-bound polyketide chain
elongation intermediate. These findings have crucial implications for the design 
of functional PKS modules, and for the engineering of pathways to generate
pharmacologically relevant molecules.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13409 
PMCID: PMC4074775
PMID: 24965656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):525-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13456.

South Greenland ice-sheet collapse during Marine Isotope Stage 11.

Reyes AV(1), Carlson AE(2), Beard BL(3), Hatfield RG(4), Stoner JS(4), Winsor
K(3), Welke B(5), Ullman DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Geoscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1215 West Dayton
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA [2] School of Geography, Archaeology and
Palaeoecology, Queen's University Belfast, Elmwood Avenue, Belfast BT7 1NN, UK
[3] Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E3, Canada (A.V.R); Department of Geosciences, University 
of Arizona, 1040 East 4th Street, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA (B.W.).
(2)1] Department of Geoscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1215 West Dayton
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA [2] College of Earth, Ocean, and
Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University, 104 CEOAS Administration Building,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(3)Department of Geoscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1215 West Dayton
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(4)College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
104 CEOAS Administration Building, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(5)1] Department of Geoscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1215 West Dayton
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA [2] Department of Earth and Atmospheric
Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E3, Canada (A.V.R);
Department of Geosciences, University of Arizona, 1040 East 4th Street, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA (B.W.).

Varying levels of boreal summer insolation and associated Earth system feedbacks 
led to differing climate and ice-sheet states during late-Quaternary
interglaciations. In particular, Marine Isotope Stage (MIS) 11 was an
exceptionally long interglaciation and potentially had a global mean sea level 6 
to 13 metres above the present level around 410,000 to 400,000 years ago,
implying substantial mass loss from the Greenland ice sheet (GIS). There are,
however, no model simulations and only limited proxy data to constrain the
magnitude of the GIS response to climate change during this 'super interglacial',
thus confounding efforts to assess climate/ice-sheet threshold behaviour and
associated sea-level rise. Here we show that the south GIS was drastically
smaller during MIS 11 than it is now, with only a small residual ice dome over
southernmost Greenland. We use the strontium-neodymium-lead isotopic composition 
of proglacial sediment discharged from south Greenland to constrain the
provenance of terrigenous silt deposited on the Eirik Drift, a sedimentary
deposit off the south Greenland margin. We identify a major reduction in sediment
input derived from south Greenland's Precambrian bedrock terranes, probably
reflecting the cessation of subglacial erosion and sediment transport as a result
of near-complete deglaciation of south Greenland. Comparison with ice-sheet
configurations from numerical models suggests that the GIS lost about 4.5 to
6 metres of sea-level-equivalent volume during MIS 11. This is evidence for
late-Quaternary GIS collapse after it crossed a climate/ice-sheet stability
threshold that may have been no more than several degrees above pre-industrial
temperatures.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13456 
PMID: 24965655 


524. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):522-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13434.

Chirality-specific growth of single-walled carbon nanotubes on solid alloy
catalysts.

Yang F(1), Wang X(1), Zhang D(1), Yang J(1), Luo D(1), Xu Z(2), Wei J(3), Wang
JQ(4), Xu Z(3), Peng F(1), Li X(5), Li R(1), Li Y(1), Li M(1), Bai X(3), Ding
F(2), Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Science, Key Laboratory for the
Physics and Chemistry of Nanodevices, State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth
Materials Chemistry and Applications, College of Chemistry and Molecular
Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(2)Institute of Textiles and Clothing, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon,
Hong Kong, China.
(3)Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China.
(4)Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Shanghai Institute of Applied
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 201204, China.
(5)Electron Microscopy Laboratory, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

Carbon nanotubes have many material properties that make them attractive for
applications. In the context of nanoelectronics, interest has focused on
single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs) because slight changes in tube diameter
and wrapping angle, defined by the chirality indices (n, m), will shift their
electrical conductivity from one characteristic of a metallic state to one
characteristic of a semiconducting state, and will also change the bandgap.
However, this structure-function relationship can be fully exploited only with
structurally pure SWNTs. Solution-based separation methods yield tubes within a
narrow structure range, but the ultimate goal of producing just one type of SWNT 
by controlling its structure during growth has proved to be a considerable
challenge over the last two decades. Such efforts aim to optimize the composition
or shape of the catalyst particles that are used in the chemical vapour
deposition synthesis process to decompose the carbon feedstock and influence SWNT
nucleation and growth. This approach resulted in the highest reported proportion,
55 per cent, of single-chirality SWNTs in an as-grown sample. Here we show that
SWNTs of a single chirality, (12, 6), can be produced directly with an abundance 
higher than 92 per cent when using tungsten-based bimetallic alloy nanocrystals
as catalysts. These, unlike other catalysts used so far, have such high melting
points that they maintain their crystalline structure during the chemical vapour 
deposition process. This feature seems crucial because experiment and simulation 
both suggest that the highly selective growth of (12, 6) SWNTs is the result of a
good structural match between the carbon atom arrangement around the nanotube
circumference and the arrangement of the catalytically active atoms in one of the
planes of the nanocrystal catalyst. We anticipate that using high-melting-point
alloy nanocrystals with optimized structures as catalysts paves the way for total
chirality control in SWNT growth and will thus promote the development of SWNT
applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13434 
PMID: 24965654 


525. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):518-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13433. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Precision measurement of the Newtonian gravitational constant using cold atoms.

Rosi G(1), Sorrentino F(1), Cacciapuoti L(2), Prevedelli M(3), Tino GM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia and LENS, Università di Firenze - INFN
Sezione di Firenze, Via Sansone 1, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Italy.
(2)European Space Agency, Keplerlaan 1, PO Box 299, 2200 AG Noordwijk ZH, The
Netherlands.
(3)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Bologna, Via Irnerio 46, 40126, Bologna,
Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):478-80.

About 300 experiments have tried to determine the value of the Newtonian
gravitational constant, G, so far, but large discrepancies in the results have
made it impossible to know its value precisely. The weakness of the gravitational
interaction and the impossibility of shielding the effects of gravity make it
very difficult to measure G while keeping systematic effects under control. Most 
previous experiments performed were based on the torsion pendulum or torsion
balance scheme as in the experiment by Cavendish in 1798, and in all cases
macroscopic masses were used. Here we report the precise determination of G using
laser-cooled atoms and quantum interferometry. We obtain the value G =
6.67191(99) × 10(-11) m(3) kg(-1) s(-2) with a relative uncertainty of 150 parts 
per million (the combined standard uncertainty is given in parentheses). Our
value differs by 1.5 combined standard deviations from the current recommended
value of the Committee on Data for Science and Technology. A conceptually
different experiment such as ours helps to identify the systematic errors that
have proved elusive in previous experiments, thus improving the confidence in the
value of G. There is no definitive relationship between G and the other
fundamental constants, and there is no theoretical prediction for its value,
against which to test experimental results. Improving the precision with which we
know G has not only a pure metrological interest, but is also important because
of the key role that G has in theories of gravitation, cosmology, particle
physics and astrophysics and in geophysical models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13433 
PMID: 24965653 


526. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):512-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13423. Epub 2014 Jun 18.

Structure of a modular polyketide synthase.

Dutta S(1), Whicher JR(2), Hansen DA(3), Hale WA(4), Chemler JA(5), Congdon
GR(5), Narayan AR(5), Håkansson K(4), Sherman DH(6), Smith JL(7), Skiniotis G(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2].
(2)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Chemical Biology Graduate Program, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA [3].
(3)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA.
(5)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA.
(6)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA [3] Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [4] Department of Microbiology & Immunology,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(7)1] Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA [2] Department of Biological Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):482-3.

Polyketide natural products constitute a broad class of compounds with diverse
structural features and biological activities. Their biosynthetic machinery,
represented by type I polyketide synthases (PKSs), has an architecture in which
successive modules catalyse two-carbon linear extensions and keto-group
processing reactions on intermediates covalently tethered to carrier domains.
Here we used electron cryo-microscopy to determine sub-nanometre-resolution
three-dimensional reconstructions of a full-length PKS module from the bacterium 
Streptomyces venezuelae that revealed an unexpectedly different architecture
compared to the homologous dimeric mammalian fatty acid synthase. A single
reaction chamber provides access to all catalytic sites for the intramodule
carrier domain. In contrast, the carrier from the preceding module uses a
separate entrance outside the reaction chamber to deliver the upstream polyketide
intermediate for subsequent extension and modification. This study reveals for
the first time, to our knowledge, the structural basis for both intramodule and
intermodule substrate transfer in polyketide synthases, and establishes a new
model for molecular dissection of these multifunctional enzyme systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13423 
PMCID: PMC4278352
PMID: 24965652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):503-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13445.

Aspergillomarasmine A overcomes metallo-β-lactamase antibiotic resistance.

King AM(1), Reid-Yu SA(2), Wang W(3), King DT(4), De Pascale G(3), Strynadka
NC(4), Walsh TR(5), Coombes BK(2), Wright GD(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, McMaster
University, Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada [2] Department of Chemistry and
Chemical Biology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University,
Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada.
(3)M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3, Canada.
(5)Cardiff Institute of Infection & Immunity, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF14
4XN, UK.
(6)1] M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, McMaster
University, Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada [2] Department of Chemistry and
Chemical Biology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada [3]
Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University,
Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada.

Comment in
    Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2014 Oct 27;53(44):11696-8.
    Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):477-8.

The emergence and spread of carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative pathogens is a
global public health problem. The acquisition of metallo-β-lactamases (MBLs) such
as NDM-1 is a principle contributor to the emergence of carbapenem-resistant
Gram-negative pathogens that threatens the use of penicillin, cephalosporin and
carbapenem antibiotics to treat infections. To date, a clinical inhibitor of MBLs
that could reverse resistance and re-sensitize resistant Gram-negative pathogens 
to carbapenems has not been found. Here we have identified a fungal natural
product, aspergillomarasmine A (AMA), that is a rapid and potent inhibitor of the
NDM-1 enzyme and another clinically relevant MBL, VIM-2. AMA also fully restored 
the activity of meropenem against Enterobacteriaceae, Acinetobacter spp. and
Pseudomonas spp. possessing either VIM or NDM-type alleles. In mice infected with
NDM-1-expressing Klebsiella pneumoniae, AMA efficiently restored meropenem
activity, demonstrating that a combination of AMA and a carbapenem antibiotic has
therapeutic potential to address the clinical challenge of MBL-positive
carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13445 
PMCID: PMC4981499
PMID: 24965651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):497-502. doi: 10.1038/nature13457.

A zero-knowledge protocol for nuclear warhead verification.

Glaser A(1), Barak B(2), Goldston RJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University,
E-Quad, Olden Street, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(2)Microsoft Research, 1 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(3)Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, Princeton University, PO Box 451, MS 41, 
Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):476-7.

The verification of nuclear warheads for arms control involves a paradox:
international inspectors will have to gain high confidence in the authenticity of
submitted items while learning nothing about them. Proposed inspection systems
featuring 'information barriers', designed to hide measurements stored in
electronic systems, are at risk of tampering and snooping. Here we show the
viability of a fundamentally new approach to nuclear warhead verification that
incorporates a zero-knowledge protocol, which is designed in such a way that
sensitive information is never measured and so does not need to be hidden. We
interrogate submitted items with energetic neutrons, making, in effect,
differential measurements of both neutron transmission and emission. Calculations
for scenarios in which material is diverted from a test object show that a high
degree of discrimination can be achieved while revealing zero information. Our
ideas for a physical zero-knowledge system could have applications beyond the
context of nuclear disarmament. The proposed technique suggests a way to perform 
comparisons or computations on personal or confidential data without measuring
the data in the first place.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13457 
PMID: 24965650 


529. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):485-96. doi: 10.1038/nature13384.

An overview of N-heterocyclic carbenes.

Hopkinson MN(1), Richter C(1), Schedler M(1), Glorius F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Organisch-Chemisches Institut, Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster,
Corrensstrasse 40, 48149 Münster, Germany.

The successful isolation and characterization of an N-heterocyclic carbene in
1991 opened up a new class of organic compounds for investigation. From these
beginnings as academic curiosities, N-heterocyclic carbenes today rank among the 
most powerful tools in organic chemistry, with numerous applications in
commercially important processes. Here we provide a concise overview of
N-heterocyclic carbenes in modern chemistry, summarizing their general properties
and uses and highlighting how these features are being exploited in a selection
of pioneering recent studies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13384 
PMID: 24965649 


530. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):507-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13440. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

The selective tRNA aminoacylation mechanism based on a single G•U pair.

Naganuma M(1), Sekine S(2), Chong YE(3), Guo M(3), Yang XL(4), Gamper H(5), Hou
YM(5), Schimmel P(6), Yokoyama S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] RIKEN Systems and Structural Biology Center, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho,
Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan [2] Department of Biophysics and
Biochemistry and Laboratory of Structural Biology, Graduate School of Science,
The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan [3] RIKEN 
Structural Biology Laboratory, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045,
Japan.
(2)1] RIKEN Systems and Structural Biology Center, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho,
Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan [2] Department of Biophysics and
Biochemistry and Laboratory of Structural Biology, Graduate School of Science,
The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan [3]
Division of Structural and Synthetic Biology, RIKEN Center for Life Science
Technologies, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.
(3)1] The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology and the Department of Cell and
Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, BCC-379, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] aTyr Pharma, 3545 John Hopkins
Court, San Diego, California 92121, USA (Y.E.C.); Department of Cancer Biology,
The Scripps Research Institute, 130 Scripps Way, Jupiter, Florida 33458, USA
(M.G.).
(4)The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology and the Department of Cell and
Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, BCC-379, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, USA.
(6)1] The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology and the Department of Cell and
Molecular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, BCC-379, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] The Scripps Florida Research
Institute, 130 Scripps Way, 3B3 Jupiter, Florida 33458-5284, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):480-1.

Ligation of tRNAs with their cognate amino acids, by aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases, 
establishes the genetic code. Throughout evolution, tRNA(Ala) selection by
alanyl-tRNA synthetase (AlaRS) has depended predominantly on a single wobble base
pair in the acceptor stem, G3•U70, mainly on the kcat level. Here we report the
crystal structures of an archaeal AlaRS in complex with tRNA(Ala) with G3•U70 and
its A3•U70 variant. AlaRS interacts with both the minor- and the major-groove
sides of G3•U70, widening the major groove. The geometry difference between
G3•U70 and A3•U70 is transmitted along the acceptor stem to the 3'-CCA region.
Thus, the 3'-CCA region of tRNA(Ala) with G3•U70 is oriented to the reactive
route that reaches the active site, whereas that of the A3•U70 variant is folded 
back into the non-reactive route. This novel mechanism enables the single wobble 
pair to dominantly determine the specificity of tRNA selection, by an approximate
100-fold difference in kcat.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13440 
PMCID: PMC4323281
PMID: 24919148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):547-51. doi: 10.1038/nature13267. Epub 2014 May 25.

Cyclin D1-Cdk4 controls glucose metabolism independently of cell cycle
progression.

Lee Y(1), Dominy JE(2), Choi YJ(3), Jurczak M(4), Tolliday N(5), Camporez JP(4), 
Chim H(2), Lim JH(2), Ruan HB(4), Yang X(4), Vazquez F(2), Sicinski P(3), Shulman
GI(4), Puigserver P(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Department of Chemistry and Chemical
Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)1] Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Yale's Mouse Metabolic Phenotyping Center and Departments of Internal Medicine
and Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.
(5)Chemical Biology Platform, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, 7 Cambridge
Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02141, USA.

Insulin constitutes a principal evolutionarily conserved hormonal axis for
maintaining glucose homeostasis; dysregulation of this axis causes diabetes.
PGC-1α (peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α) links
insulin signalling to the expression of glucose and lipid metabolic genes. The
histone acetyltransferase GCN5 (general control non-repressed protein 5)
acetylates PGC-1α and suppresses its transcriptional activity, whereas sirtuin 1 
deacetylates and activates PGC-1α. Although insulin is a mitogenic signal in
proliferative cells, whether components of the cell cycle machinery contribute to
its metabolic action is poorly understood. Here we report that in mice insulin
activates cyclin D1-cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (Cdk4), which, in turn, increases
GCN5 acetyltransferase activity and suppresses hepatic glucose production
independently of cell cycle progression. Through a cell-based high-throughput
chemical screen, we identify a Cdk4 inhibitor that potently decreases PGC-1α
acetylation. Insulin/GSK-3β (glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta) signalling induces 
cyclin D1 protein stability by sequestering cyclin D1 in the nucleus. In
parallel, dietary amino acids increase hepatic cyclin D1 messenger RNA
transcripts. Activated cyclin D1-Cdk4 kinase phosphorylates and activates GCN5,
which then acetylates and inhibits PGC-1α activity on gluconeogenic genes. Loss
of hepatic cyclin D1 results in increased gluconeogenesis and hyperglycaemia. In 
diabetic models, cyclin D1-Cdk4 is chronically elevated and refractory to
fasting/feeding transitions; nevertheless further activation of this kinase
normalizes glycaemia. Our findings show that insulin uses components of the cell 
cycle machinery in post-mitotic cells to control glucose homeostasis
independently of cell division.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13267 
PMCID: PMC4076706
PMID: 24870244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):542-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13270. Epub 2014 May 21.

Metformin suppresses gluconeogenesis by inhibiting mitochondrial glycerophosphate
dehydrogenase.

Madiraju AK(1), Erion DM(1), Rahimi Y(2), Zhang XM(2), Braddock DT(3), Albright
RA(3), Prigaro BJ(4), Wood JL(5), Bhanot S(6), MacDonald MJ(7), Jurczak MJ(2),
Camporez JP(2), Lee HY(2), Cline GW(2), Samuel VT(2), Kibbey RG(8), Shulman
GI(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Department of Cellular & Molecular Physiology, 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [3] Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado
80523, USA.
(5)Cancer Prevention Research Institute of Texas Scholar, Department of Chemistry
and Biochemistry, Baylor University, Waco, Texas 76798, USA.
(6)Isis Pharmaceuticals, 2855 Gazelle Court, Carlsbad, California 92010, USA.
(7)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA, 53706.
(8)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Department of Cellular & Molecular Physiology, 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(9)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Department of Cellular & Molecular Physiology, 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [3] Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA [4] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic
Research, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark, DK-2200.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Aug 5;20(2):197-9.

Metformin is considered to be one of the most effective therapeutics for treating
type 2 diabetes because it specifically reduces hepatic gluconeogenesis without
increasing insulin secretion, inducing weight gain or posing a risk of
hypoglycaemia. For over half a century, this agent has been prescribed to
patients with type 2 diabetes worldwide, yet the underlying mechanism by which
metformin inhibits hepatic gluconeogenesis remains unknown. Here we show that
metformin non-competitively inhibits the redox shuttle enzyme mitochondrial
glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, resulting in an altered hepatocellular redox
state, reduced conversion of lactate and glycerol to glucose, and decreased
hepatic gluconeogenesis. Acute and chronic low-dose metformin treatment
effectively reduced endogenous glucose production, while increasing cytosolic
redox and decreasing mitochondrial redox states. Antisense oligonucleotide
knockdown of hepatic mitochondrial glycerophosphate dehydrogenase in rats
resulted in a phenotype akin to chronic metformin treatment, and abrogated
metformin-mediated increases in cytosolic redox state, decreases in plasma
glucose concentrations, and inhibition of endogenous glucose production. These
findings were replicated in whole-body mitochondrial glycerophosphate
dehydrogenase knockout mice. These results have significant implications for
understanding the mechanism of metformin's blood glucose lowering effects and
provide a new therapeutic target for type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13270 
PMCID: PMC4074244
PMID: 24847880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):552-5.

Structure of a lipid-bound extended synaptotagmin indicates a role in lipid
transfer.

Schauder CM, Wu X, Saheki Y, Narayanaswamy P, Torta F, Wenk MR, De Camilli P,
Reinisch KM.

Growing evidence suggests that close appositions between the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) and other membranes, including appositions with the plasma
membrane (PM), mediate exchange of lipids between these bilayers. The mechanisms 
of such exchange, which allows lipid transfer independently of vesicular
transport, remain poorly understood. The presence of a synaptotagmin-like
mitochondrial-lipid-binding protein (SMP) domain, a proposed lipid-binding
module, in several proteins localized at membrane contact sites has raised the
possibility that such domains may be implicated in lipid transport.
SMP-containing proteins include components of the ERMES complex, an
ER–mitochondrial tether, and the extended synaptotagmins (known as tricalbins in 
yeast), which are ER–PM tethers. Here we present at 2.44 Å resolution the crystal
structure of a fragment of human extended synaptotagmin 2 (E-SYT2), including an 
SMP domain and two adjacent C2 domains. The SMP domain has a β-barrel structure
like protein modules in the tubular-lipid-binding (TULIP) superfamily. It
dimerizes to form an approximately 90-Å-long cylinder traversed by a channel
lined entirely with hydrophobic residues, with the two C2A–C2B fragments forming 
arched structures flexibly linked to the SMP domain. Importantly, structural
analysis complemented by mass spectrometry revealed the presence of
glycerophospholipids in the E-SYT2 SMP channel, indicating a direct role for
E-SYTs in lipid transport. These findings provide strong evidence for a role of
SMP-domain-containing proteins in the control of lipid transfer at membrane
contact sites and have broad implications beyond the field of ER-to-PM
appositions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13269 
PMCID: PMC4135724
PMID: 24847877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):537-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13268. Epub 2014 May 18.

Decoding the regulatory landscape of medulloblastoma using DNA methylation
sequencing.

Hovestadt V(1), Jones DT(2), Picelli S(3), Wang W(3), Kool M(4), Northcott PA(4),
Sultan M(5), Stachurski K(6), Ryzhova M(7), Warnatz HJ(5), Ralser M(5), Brun
S(8), Bunt J(9), Jäger N(10), Kleinheinz K(11), Erkek S(12), Weber UD(3),
Bartholomae CC(13), von Kalle C(13), Lawerenz C(14), Eils J(14), Koster J(15),
Versteeg R(15), Milde T(16), Witt O(16), Schmidt S(17), Wolf S(17), Pietsch
T(18), Rutkowski S(19), Scheurlen W(20), Taylor MD(21), Brors B(10), Felsberg
J(22), Reifenberger G(22), Borkhardt A(6), Lehrach H(5), Wechsler-Reya RJ(8),
Eils R(23), Yaspo ML(5), Landgraf P(6), Korshunov A(24), Zapatka M(3), Radlwimmer
B(3), Pfister SM(25), Lichter P(26).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2].
(2)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2].
(3)Division of Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(4)Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(5)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Ihnestrasse 63-73, Berlin 14195, 
Germany.
(6)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and Clinical Immunology, Heinrich
Heine University Düsseldorf, Moorenstrasse 5, Düsseldorf 40225, Germany.
(7)Department of Neuropathology, NN Burdenko Neurosurgical Institute, 4th
Tverskaya-Yamskaya 16, Moscow 125047, Russia.
(8)Tumor Initiation and Maintenance Program, National Cancer Institute
(NCI)-Designated Cancer Center, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, 2880 
Torrey Pines Scenic Drive, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(9)1] Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, QBI Building, St
Lucia, Queensland 4072, Australia [2] Department of Oncogenomics, AMC, University
of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam 1105 AZ, the Netherlands.
(10)Division of Theoretical Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(11)1] Division of Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Division of Theoretical
Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280,
Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(12)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] European Molecular Biology
Laboratory (EMBL), Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg 69117, Germany.
(13)1] Division of Translational Oncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] National Center for Tumor 
Diseases (NCT), Im Neuenheimer Feld 460, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(14)Data Management Facility, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(15)Department of Oncogenomics, AMC, University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9,
Amsterdam 1105 AZ, the Netherlands.
(16)1] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology & Immunology, Heidelberg
University Hospital, Im Neuenheimer Feld 430, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2]
Clinical Cooperation Unit Pediatric Oncology, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(17)Genomics and Proteomics Core Facility, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(18)Department of Neuropathology, University of Bonn Medical Center,
Sigmund-Freud-Strasse 25, Bonn 53105, Germany.
(19)Department of Paediatric Haematology and Oncology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistrasse 52, Hamburg 20246, Germany.
(20)Cnopf'sche Kinderklinik, Nürnberg Children's Hospital, St.-Johannis-Mühlgasse
19, Nürnberg 90419, Germany.
(21)1] Program in Developmental and Stem Cell Biology, The Arthur and Sonia
Labatt Brain Tumour Research Centre, Hospital for Sick Children, 555 University
Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada [2] Division of Neurosurgery, Hospital
for Sick Children, 555 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada [3]
Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(22)1] Department of Neuropathology, Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf,
Moorenstrasse 5, Düsseldorf 40225, Germany [2] German Consortium for
Translational Cancer Research (DKTK), German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(23)1] Division of Theoretical Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Institute of
Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology (IPMB), University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg
69120, Germany [3] Bioquant Center, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
267, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [4] Heidelberg Center for Personalised Oncology
(DKFZ-HIPO), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(24)1] Department of Neuropathology, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 220, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Clinical Cooperation Unit Neuropathology,
German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im Neuenheimer Feld 220-221, Heidelberg,
69120 Germany.
(25)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Department of Pediatric
Oncology, Hematology & Immunology, Heidelberg University Hospital, Im Neuenheimer
Feld 430, Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(26)1] Division of Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Heidelberg Center for
Personalised Oncology (DKFZ-HIPO), Im Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg 69120,
Germany.

Epigenetic alterations, that is, disruption of DNA methylation and chromatin
architecture, are now acknowledged as a universal feature of tumorigenesis.
Medulloblastoma, a clinically challenging, malignant childhood brain tumour, is
no exception. Despite much progress from recent genomics studies, with recurrent 
changes identified in each of the four distinct tumour subgroups
(WNT-pathway-activated, SHH-pathway-activated, and the less-well-characterized
Group 3 and Group 4), many cases still lack an obvious genetic driver. Here we
present whole-genome bisulphite-sequencing data from thirty-four human and five
murine tumours plus eight human and three murine normal controls, augmented with 
matched whole-genome, RNA and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing data. This
comprehensive data set allowed us to decipher several features underlying the
interplay between the genome, epigenome and transcriptome, and its effects on
medulloblastoma pathophysiology. Most notable were highly prevalent regions of
hypomethylation correlating with increased gene expression, extending tens of
kilobases downstream of transcription start sites. Focal regions of low
methylation linked to transcription-factor-binding sites shed light on
differential transcriptional networks between subgroups, whereas increased
methylation due to re-normalization of repressed chromatin in DNA methylation
valleys was positively correlated with gene expression. Large, partially
methylated domains affecting up to one-third of the genome showed increased
mutation rates and gene silencing in a subgroup-specific fashion. Epigenetic
alterations also affected novel medulloblastoma candidate genes (for example,
LIN28B), resulting in alternative promoter usage and/or differential messenger
RNA/microRNA expression. Analysis of mouse medulloblastoma and precursor-cell
methylation demonstrated a somatic origin for many alterations. Our data provide 
insights into the epigenetic regulation of transcription and genome organization 
in medulloblastoma pathogenesis, which are probably also of importance in a wider
developmental and disease context.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13268 
PMID: 24847876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):529-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13282. Epub 2014 May 11.

Purkinje-cell plasticity and cerebellar motor learning are graded by
complex-spike duration.

Yang Y(1), Lisberger SG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27710,
USA.
(2)1] Department of Neurobiology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27710, 
USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
27710, USA.

Behavioural learning is mediated by cellular plasticity, such as changes in the
strength of synapses at specific sites in neural circuits. The theory of
cerebellar motor learning relies on movement errors signalled by climbing-fibre
inputs to cause long-term depression of synapses from parallel fibres to Purkinje
cells. However, a recent review has called into question the widely held view
that the climbing-fibre input is an 'all-or-none' event. In anaesthetized
animals, there is wide variation in the duration of the complex spike (CS) caused
in Purkinje cells by a climbing-fibre input. Furthermore, the amount of
plasticity in Purkinje cells is graded according to the duration of electrically 
controlled bursts in climbing fibres. The duration of bursts depends on the
'state' of the inferior olive and therefore may be correlated across climbing
fibres. Here we provide a potential functional context for these mechanisms
during motor learning in behaving monkeys. The magnitudes of both plasticity and 
motor learning depend on the duration of the CS responses. Furthermore, the
duration of CS responses seems to be a meaningful signal that is correlated
across the Purkinje-cell population during motor learning. We suggest that during
learning, longer bursts in climbing fibres lead to longer-duration CS responses
in Purkinje cells, more calcium entry into Purkinje cells, larger synaptic
depression, and stronger learning. The same graded impact of instructive signals 
for plasticity and learning might occur throughout the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13282 
PMCID: PMC4132823
PMID: 24814344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):533-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13287. Epub 2014 Apr 28.

Human oocytes reprogram adult somatic nuclei of a type 1 diabetic to diploid
pluripotent stem cells.

Yamada M(1), Johannesson B(1), Sagi I(2), Burnett LC(3), Kort DH(4), Prosser
RW(4), Paull D(5), Nestor MW(5), Freeby M(3), Greenberg E(3), Goland RS(3),
Leibel RL(3), Solomon SL(5), Benvenisty N(2), Sauer MV(4), Egli D(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] The New York Stem Cell Foundation Research Institute, New York, New York
10032, USA [2].
(2)Stem Cell Unit, Department of Genetics, Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, 
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.
(3)Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center, Department of Pediatrics, College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(4)1] Center for Women's Reproductive Care, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York 10019, USA [2] Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York
10032, USA.
(5)The New York Stem Cell Foundation Research Institute, New York, New York
10032, USA.

The transfer of somatic cell nuclei into oocytes can give rise to pluripotent
stem cells that are consistently equivalent to embryonic stem cells, holding
promise for autologous cell replacement therapy. Although methods to induce
pluripotent stem cells from somatic cells by transcription factors are widely
used in basic research, numerous differences between induced pluripotent stem
cells and embryonic stem cells have been reported, potentially affecting their
clinical use. Because of the therapeutic potential of diploid embryonic stem-cell
lines derived from adult cells of diseased human subjects, we have systematically
investigated the parameters affecting efficiency of blastocyst development and
stem-cell derivation. Here we show that improvements to the oocyte activation
protocol, including the use of both kinase and translation inhibitors, and cell
culture in the presence of histone deacetylase inhibitors, promote development to
the blastocyst stage. Developmental efficiency varied between oocyte donors, and 
was inversely related to the number of days of hormonal stimulation required for 
oocyte maturation, whereas the daily dose of gonadotropin or the total number of 
metaphase II oocytes retrieved did not affect developmental outcome. Because the 
use of concentrated Sendai virus for cell fusion induced an increase in
intracellular calcium concentration, causing premature oocyte activation, we used
diluted Sendai virus in calcium-free medium. Using this modified nuclear transfer
protocol, we derived diploid pluripotent stem-cell lines from somatic cells of a 
newborn and, for the first time, an adult, a female with type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13287 
PMID: 24776804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Nature. 2014 Jun 26;510(7506):556-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13295. Epub 2014 Apr 28.

BRCA1 controls homologous recombination at Tus/Ter-stalled mammalian replication 
forks.

Willis NA(1), Chandramouly G(2), Huang B(2), Kwok A(2), Follonier C(3), Deng
C(4), Scully R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 330 Brookline
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)1] Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 330
Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Temple University, 1801
North Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19122, USA (G.C.); Brandeis
University, 415 South Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02453, USA (B.H.);
University of Massachusetts Medical School, 55 Lake Avenue North, Worcester,
Massachusetts 01655, USA (A.K.).
(3)Princeton University, 101 Lewis Thomas Laboratory, Washington Road, Princeton,
New Jersey 08544, USA.
(4)NIDDK, National Institutes of Health, Building 10, Room 9N105, 10 Center
Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA.

Replication fork stalling can promote genomic instability, predisposing to cancer
and other diseases. Stalled replication forks may be processed by sister
chromatid recombination (SCR), generating error-free or error-prone homologous
recombination (HR) outcomes. In mammalian cells, a long-standing hypothesis
proposes that the major hereditary breast/ovarian cancer predisposition gene
products, BRCA1 and BRCA2, control HR/SCR at stalled replication forks. Although 
BRCA1 and BRCA2 affect replication fork processing, direct evidence that BRCA
gene products regulate homologous recombination at stalled chromosomal
replication forks is lacking, due to a dearth of tools for studying this process.
Here we report that the Escherichia coli Tus/Ter complex can be engineered to
induce site-specific replication fork stalling and chromosomal HR/SCR in mouse
cells. Tus/Ter-induced homologous recombination entails processing of
bidirectionally arrested forks. We find that the Brca1 carboxy (C)-terminal
tandem BRCT repeat and regions of Brca1 encoded by exon 11-two Brca1 elements
implicated in tumour suppression-control Tus/Ter-induced homologous
recombination. Inactivation of either Brca1 or Brca2 increases the absolute
frequency of 'long-tract' gene conversions at Tus/Ter-stalled forks, an outcome
not observed in response to a site-specific endonuclease-mediated chromosomal
double-strand break. Therefore, homologous recombination at stalled forks is
regulated differently from homologous recombination at double-strand breaks
arising independently of a replication fork. We propose that aberrant long-tract 
homologous recombination at stalled replication forks contributes to genomic
instability and breast/ovarian cancer predisposition in BRCA mutant cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13295 
PMCID: PMC4118467
PMID: 24776801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):389-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13391.

Possible control of subduction zone slow-earthquake periodicity by silica
enrichment.

Audet P(1), Bürgmann R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5,
Canada.
(2)Department of Earth and Planetary Science and Berkeley Seismological
Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720-4767, USA.

Seismic and geodetic observations in subduction zone forearcs indicate that slow 
earthquakes, including episodic tremor and slip, recur at intervals of less than 
six months to more than two years. In Cascadia, slow slip is segmented along
strike and tremor data show a gradation from large, infrequent slip episodes to
small, frequent slip events with increasing depth of the plate interface.
Observations and models of slow slip and tremor require the presence of
near-lithostatic pore-fluid pressures in slow-earthquake source regions; however,
direct evidence of factors controlling the variability in recurrence times is
elusive. Here we compile seismic data from subduction zone forearcs exhibiting
recurring slow earthquakes and show that the average ratio of compressional
(P)-wave velocity to shear (S)-wave velocity (vP/vS) of the overlying forearc
crust ranges between 1.6 and 2.0 and is linearly related to the average
recurrence time of slow earthquakes. In northern Cascadia, forearc vP/vS values
decrease with increasing depth of the plate interface and with decreasing
tremor-episode recurrence intervals. Low vP/vS values require a large addition of
quartz in a mostly mafic forearc environment. We propose that silica enrichment
varying from 5 per cent to 15 per cent by volume from slab-derived fluids and
upward mineralization in quartz veins can explain the range of observed vP/vS
values as well as the downdip decrease in vP/vS. The solubility of silica depends
on temperature, and deposition prevails near the base of the forearc crust. We
further propose that the strong temperature dependence of healing and
permeability reduction in silica-rich fault gouge via dissolution-precipitation
creep can explain the reduction in tremor recurrence time with progressive silica
enrichment. Lower gouge permeability at higher temperatures leads to faster fluid
overpressure development and low effective fault-normal stress, and therefore
shorter recurrence times. Our results also agree with numerical models of slip
stabilization under fault zone dilatancy strengthening caused by decreasing fluid
pressure as pore space increases. This implies that temperature-dependent silica 
deposition, permeability reduction and fluid overpressure development control
dilatancy and slow-earthquake behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13391 
PMID: 24943955 


539. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):385-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13405.

Metastable liquid-liquid transition in a molecular model of water.

Palmer JC(1), Martelli F(2), Liu Y(3), Car R(2), Panagiotopoulos AZ(1),
Debenedetti PG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
USA.
(3)1] Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA [2] Air Products and Chemicals Inc., Allentown, 
Pennsylvania 18195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2016 Mar 10;531(7593):E1-2.
    Nature. 2016 Mar 10;531(7593):E2-3.

Liquid water's isothermal compressibility and isobaric heat capacity, and the
magnitude of its thermal expansion coefficient, increase sharply on cooling below
the equilibrium freezing point. Many experimental, theoretical and computational 
studies have sought to understand the molecular origin and implications of this
anomalous behaviour. Of the different theoretical scenarios put forward, one
posits the existence of a first-order phase transition that involves two forms of
liquid water and terminates at a critical point located at deeply supercooled
conditions. Some experimental evidence is consistent with this hypothesis, but no
definitive proof of a liquid-liquid transition in water has been obtained to
date: rapid ice crystallization has so far prevented decisive measurements on
deeply supercooled water, although this challenge has been overcome recently.
Computer simulations are therefore crucial for exploring water's structure and
behaviour in this regime, and have shown that some water models exhibit
liquid-liquid transitions and others do not. However, recent work has argued that
the liquid-liquid transition has been mistakenly interpreted, and is in fact a
liquid-crystal transition in all atomistic models of water. Here we show, by
studying the liquid-liquid transition in the ST2 model of water with the use of
six advanced sampling methods to compute the free-energy surface, that two
metastable liquid phases and a stable crystal phase exist at the same deeply
supercooled thermodynamic condition, and that the transition between the two
liquids satisfies the thermodynamic criteria of a first-order transition. We
follow the rearrangement of water's coordination shell and topological ring
structure along a thermodynamically reversible path from the low-density liquid
to cubic ice. We also show that the system fluctuates freely between the two
liquid phases rather than crystallizing. These findings provide unambiguous
evidence for a liquid-liquid transition in the ST2 model of water, and point to
the separation of time scales between crystallization and relaxation as being
crucial for enabling it.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13405 
PMID: 24943954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):381-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13266.

Ultrafast X-ray probing of water structure below the homogeneous ice nucleation
temperature.

Sellberg JA(1), Huang C(2), McQueen TA(3), Loh ND(4), Laksmono H(4), Schlesinger 
D(5), Sierra RG(4), Nordlund D(2), Hampton CY(4), Starodub D(4), DePonte DP(6),
Beye M(7), Chen C(3), Martin AV(8), Barty A(8), Wikfeldt KT(5), Weiss TM(2),
Caronna C(9), Feldkamp J(9), Skinner LB(10), Seibert MM(9), Messerschmidt M(9),
Williams GJ(9), Boutet S(9), Pettersson LG(5), Bogan MJ(4), Nilsson A(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] SUNCAT Center for Interface Science and Catalysis, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA
[2] Department of Physics, AlbaNova University Center, Stockholm University,
S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, SLAC National Accelerator
Laboratory, PO Box 20450, Stanford, California 94309, USA.
(3)1] SUNCAT Center for Interface Science and Catalysis, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA
[2] Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.
(4)PULSE Institute, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road,
Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(5)Department of Physics, AlbaNova University Center, Stockholm University, S-106
91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)1] Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607
Hamburg, Germany [2] Linac Coherent Light Source, SLAC National Accelerator
Laboratory, PO Box 20450, Stanford, California 94309, USA.
(7)1] SUNCAT Center for Interface Science and Catalysis, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA
[2] Institute for Methods and Instrumentation in Synchrotron Radiation Research, 
Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie GmbH, Wilhelm-Conrad-Röntgen
Campus, Albert-Einstein-Strasse 15, 12489 Berlin, Germany.
(8)Center for Free-Electron Laser Science, DESY, Notkestrasse 85, 22607 Hamburg, 
Germany.
(9)Linac Coherent Light Source, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, PO Box
20450, Stanford, California 94309, USA.
(10)Mineral Physics Institute, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New York, New
York 11794-2100, USA.
(11)1] SUNCAT Center for Interface Science and Catalysis, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA
[2] Department of Physics, AlbaNova University Center, Stockholm University,
S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden [3] Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, SLAC
National Accelerator Laboratory, PO Box 20450, Stanford, California 94309, USA.

Comment in
    Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2014 Oct 27;53(44):11699-701.
    Nat Mater. 2014 Jul;13(7):671-3.

Water has a number of anomalous physical properties, and some of these become
drastically enhanced on supercooling below the freezing point. Particular
interest has focused on thermodynamic response functions that can be described
using a normal component and an anomalous component that seems to diverge at
about 228 kelvin (refs 1-3). This has prompted debate about conflicting theories 
that aim to explain many of the anomalous thermodynamic properties of water. One 
popular theory attributes the divergence to a phase transition between two forms 
of liquid water occurring in the 'no man's land' that lies below the homogeneous 
ice nucleation temperature (TH) at approximately 232 kelvin and above about 160
kelvin, and where rapid ice crystallization has prevented any measurements of the
bulk liquid phase. In fact, the reliable determination of the structure of liquid
water typically requires temperatures above about 250 kelvin. Water
crystallization has been inhibited by using nanoconfinement, nanodroplets and
association with biomolecules to give liquid samples at temperatures below TH,
but such measurements rely on nanoscopic volumes of water where the interaction
with the confining surfaces makes the relevance to bulk water unclear. Here we
demonstrate that femtosecond X-ray laser pulses can be used to probe the
structure of liquid water in micrometre-sized droplets that have been
evaporatively cooled below TH. We find experimental evidence for the existence of
metastable bulk liquid water down to temperatures of 227(-1)(+2) kelvin in the
previously largely unexplored no man's land. We observe a continuous and
accelerating increase in structural ordering on supercooling to approximately 229
kelvin, where the number of droplets containing ice crystals increases rapidly.
But a few droplets remain liquid for about a millisecond even at this
temperature. The hope now is that these observations and our detailed structural 
data will help identify those theories that best describe and explain the
behaviour of water.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13266 
PMID: 24943953 


541. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):376-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13403.

Measurement of the magnetic interaction between two bound electrons of two
separate ions.

Kotler S(1), Akerman N(2), Navon N(1), Glickman Y(2), Ozeri R(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot 76100, Israel [2] Physical Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, Boulder, Colorado 80305, USA (S.K.); Cavendish
Laboratory, University of Cambridge, J. J. Thomson Avenue, Cambridge CB30HE, UK
(N.N.).
(2)Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot 76100, Israel.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):349.

Electrons have an intrinsic, indivisible, magnetic dipole aligned with their
internal angular momentum (spin). The magnetic interaction between two electronic
spins can therefore impose a change in their orientation. Similar dipolar
magnetic interactions exist between other spin systems and have been studied
experimentally. Examples include the interaction between an electron and its
nucleus and the interaction between several multi-electron spin complexes. The
challenge in observing such interactions for two electrons is twofold. First, at 
the atomic scale, where the coupling is relatively large, it is often dominated
by the much larger Coulomb exchange counterpart. Second, on scales that are
substantially larger than the atomic, the magnetic coupling is very weak and can 
be well below the ambient magnetic noise. Here we report the measurement of the
magnetic interaction between the two ground-state spin-1/2 valence electrons of
two (88)Sr(+) ions, co-trapped in an electric Paul trap. We varied the ion
separation, d, between 2.18 and 2.76 micrometres and measured the electrons'
weak, millihertz-scale, magnetic interaction as a function of distance, in the
presence of magnetic noise that was six orders of magnitude larger than the
magnetic fields the electrons apply on each other. The cooperative spin dynamics 
was kept coherent for 15 seconds, during which spin entanglement was generated,
as verified by a negative measured value of -0.16 for the swap entanglement
witness. The sensitivity necessary for this measurement was provided by
restricting the spin evolution to a decoherence-free subspace that is immune to
collective magnetic field noise. Our measurements show a d(-3.0(4)) distance
dependence for the coupling, consistent with the inverse-cube law.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13403 
PMID: 24943952 


542. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):407-411. doi: 10.1038/nature13444. Epub 2014 Jun
11.

Inactivation of PI(3)K p110δ breaks regulatory T-cell-mediated immune tolerance
to cancer.

Ali K(1), Soond DR(#)(2), Pineiro R(#)(1), Hagemann T(3), Pearce W(1), Lim EL(2),
Bouabe H(2), Scudamore CL(4), Hancox T(5), Maecker H(6), Friedman L(6), Turner
M(2), Okkenhaug K(2), Vanhaesebroeck B(1).

Author information: 
(1)UCL Cancer Institute, Paul O'Gorman Building, University College London, 72
Huntley Street London WC1E 6DD, UK.
(2)Laboratory of Lymphocyte Signalling and Development, The Babraham Institute,
Babraham Research Campus, Cambridge CB22 3AT, UK.
(3)Centre for Cancer and Inflammation, Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary
University of London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.
(4)Department of Pathology and Infectious Diseases, Royal Veterinary College,
Hawkshead Lane, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL9 7TA, UK.
(5)Piramed Pharma, 957 Buckingham Avenue, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 4NL, UK.
(6)Cancer Signaling and Translational Oncology, Genentech Inc, 1 DNA Way, South
San Francisco, CA 94080-4990, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 Jul 28;535(7613):580.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):342-3.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Aug;11(8):442.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Aug;13(8):573.

Inhibitors against the p110δ isoform of phosphoinositide-3-OH kinase (PI(3)K)
have shown remarkable therapeutic efficacy in some human leukaemias. As p110δ is 
primarily expressed in leukocytes, drugs against p110δ have not been considered
for the treatment of solid tumours. Here we report that p110δ inactivation in
mice protects against a broad range of cancers, including non-haematological
solid tumours. We demonstrate that p110δ inactivation in regulatory T cells
unleashes CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells and induces tumour regression. Thus, p110δ
inhibitors can break tumour-induced immune tolerance and should be considered for
wider use in oncology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13444 
PMCID: PMC4501086
PMID: 24919154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):363-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13437. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

Single-cell RNA-seq reveals dynamic paracrine control of cellular variation.

Shalek AK(1), Satija R(2), Shuga J(3), Trombetta JJ(4), Gennert D(4), Lu D(4),
Chen P(5), Gertner RS(6), Gaublomme JT(6), Yosef N(4), Schwartz S(4), Fowler
B(5), Weaver S(5), Wang J(5), Wang X(5), Ding R(6), Raychowdhury R(4), Friedman
N(7), Hacohen N(8), Park H(9), May AP(5), Regev A(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Physics, Harvard
University, 17 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA [4].
(2)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2].
(3)1] Fluidigm Corporation, 7000 Shoreline Court, Suite 100, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA [2].
(4)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(5)Fluidigm Corporation, 7000 Shoreline Court, Suite 100, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(6)1] Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Physics, Harvard
University, 17 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(7)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Hebrew University, 91904
Jerusalem, Israel.
(8)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Center for Immunology and Inflammatory Diseases &
Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown,
Massachusetts 02129, USA.
(9)1] Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Physics, Harvard
University, 17 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA.
(10)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of
Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02140,
USA.

High-throughput single-cell transcriptomics offers an unbiased approach for
understanding the extent, basis and function of gene expression variation between
seemingly identical cells. Here we sequence single-cell RNA-seq libraries
prepared from over 1,700 primary mouse bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells
spanning several experimental conditions. We find substantial variation between
identically stimulated dendritic cells, in both the fraction of cells detectably 
expressing a given messenger RNA and the transcript's level within expressing
cells. Distinct gene modules are characterized by different temporal
heterogeneity profiles. In particular, a 'core' module of antiviral genes is
expressed very early by a few 'precocious' cells in response to uniform
stimulation with a pathogenic component, but is later activated in all cells. By 
stimulating cells individually in sealed microfluidic chambers, analysing
dendritic cells from knockout mice, and modulating secretion and extracellular
signalling, we show that this response is coordinated by interferon-mediated
paracrine signalling from these precocious cells. Notably, preventing
cell-to-cell communication also substantially reduces variability between cells
in the expression of an early-induced 'peaked' inflammatory module, suggesting
that paracrine signalling additionally represses part of the inflammatory
program. Our study highlights the importance of cell-to-cell communication in
controlling cellular heterogeneity and reveals general strategies that
multicellular populations can use to establish complex dynamic responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13437 
PMCID: PMC4193940
PMID: 24919153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):351-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13460. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

Contextuality supplies the 'magic' for quantum computation.

Howard M(1), Wallman J(2), Veitch V(3), Emerson J(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Mathematical Physics, National University of Ireland,
Maynooth, Ireland [2] Institute for Quantum Computing and Department of Applied
Mathematics, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada.
(2)Institute for Quantum Computing and Department of Applied Mathematics,
University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada.
(3)1] Institute for Quantum Computing and Department of Applied Mathematics,
University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada [2] Department of
Statistics, University of Toronto, 100 St George Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S
3G3, Canada.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):345-7.

Quantum computers promise dramatic advantages over their classical counterparts, 
but the source of the power in quantum computing has remained elusive. Here we
prove a remarkable equivalence between the onset of contextuality and the
possibility of universal quantum computation via 'magic state' distillation,
which is the leading model for experimentally realizing a fault-tolerant quantum 
computer. This is a conceptually satisfying link, because contextuality, which
precludes a simple 'hidden variable' model of quantum mechanics, provides one of 
the fundamental characterizations of uniquely quantum phenomena. Furthermore,
this connection suggests a unifying paradigm for the resources of quantum
information: the non-locality of quantum theory is a particular kind of
contextuality, and non-locality is already known to be a critical resource for
achieving advantages with quantum communication. In addition to clarifying these 
fundamental issues, this work advances the resource framework for quantum
computation, which has a number of practical applications, such as characterizing
the efficiency and trade-offs between distinct theoretical and experimental
schemes for achieving robust quantum computation, and putting bounds on the
overhead cost for the classical simulation of quantum algorithms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13460 
PMID: 24919152 


545. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):356-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13308. Epub 2014 Jun 11.

The genome of Eucalyptus grandis.

Myburg AA(1), Grattapaglia D(2), Tuskan GA(3), Hellsten U(4), Hayes RD(4),
Grimwood J(5), Jenkins J(5), Lindquist E(4), Tice H(4), Bauer D(4), Goodstein
DM(4), Dubchak I(4), Poliakov A(4), Mizrachi E(1), Kullan AR(1), Hussey SG(1),
Pinard D(1), van der Merwe K(1), Singh P(1), van Jaarsveld I(6), Silva-Junior
OB(7), Togawa RC(7), Pappas MR(8), Faria DA(8), Sansaloni CP(8), Petroli CD(8),
Yang X(9), Ranjan P(9), Tschaplinski TJ(9), Ye CY(9), Li T(9), Sterck L(10),
Vanneste K(10), Murat F(11), Soler M(12), Clemente HS(12), Saidi N(12),
Cassan-Wang H(12), Dunand C(12), Hefer CA(13), Bornberg-Bauer E(14), Kersting
AR(15), Vining K(16), Amarasinghe V(16), Ranik M(16), Naithani S(17), Elser
J(18), Boyd AE(19), Liston A(17), Spatafora JW(17), Dharmwardhana P(18), Raja
R(18), Sullivan C(19), Romanel E(20), Alves-Ferreira M(21), Külheim C(22), Foley 
W(22), Carocha V(23), Paiva J(24), Kudrna D(25), Brommonschenkel SH(26), Pasquali
G(27), Byrne M(28), Rigault P(29), Tibbits J(30), Spokevicius A(31), Jones
RC(32), Steane DA(33), Vaillancourt RE(32), Potts BM(32), Joubert F(34), Barry
K(4), Pappas GJ(35), Strauss SH(16), Jaiswal P(17), Grima-Pettenati J(12), Salse 
J(11), Van de Peer Y(36), Rokhsar DS(4), Schmutz J(37).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetics, Forestry and Agricultural Biotechnology Institute
(FABI), University of Pretoria, Private bag X20, Pretoria 0028, South Africa [2] 
Genomics Research Institute (GRI), University of Pretoria, Private bag X20,
Pretoria 0028, South Africa.
(2)1] Laboratório de Genética Vegetal, EMBRAPA Recursos Genéticos e
Biotecnologia, EPQB Final W5 Norte, 70770-917 Brasília, Brazil [2] Programa de
Ciências Genômicas e Biotecnologia - Universidade Católica de Brasília SGAN 916, 
70790-160 Brasília, Brazil.
(3)1] US Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive, Walnut
Creek, California 94598, USA [2] Biosciences Division, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA.
(4)US Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive, Walnut
Creek, California 94598, USA.
(5)HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 601 Genome Way, Huntsville, Alabama
35801, USA.
(6)Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Unit, Department of Biochemistry,
University of Pretoria, Pretoria, Private bag X20, Pretoria 0028, South Africa.
(7)Laboratório de Bioinformática, EMBRAPA Recursos Genéticos e Biotecnologia,
EPQB Final W5 Norte, 70770-917 Brasília, Brazil.
(8)Laboratório de Genética Vegetal, EMBRAPA Recursos Genéticos e Biotecnologia,
EPQB Final W5 Norte, 70770-917 Brasília, Brazil.
(9)Biosciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee
37831, USA.
(10)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bioinformatics (VIB), Ghent University,
Technologiepark 927, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(11)INRA/UBP UMR 1095, 5 Avenue de Beaulieu, 63100 Clermont Ferrand, France.
(12)Laboratoire de Recherche en Sciences Végétales, UMR 5546, Université Toulouse
III, UPS, CNRS, BP 42617, 31326 Castanet Tolosan, France.
(13)1] Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Unit, Department of Biochemistry,
University of Pretoria, Pretoria, Private bag X20, Pretoria 0028, South Africa
[2] Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, 3529-6270 University
Blvd, Vancouver V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(14)Evolutionary Bioinformatics, Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity,
University of Muenster, Huefferstrasse 1, D-48149, Muenster, Germany.
(15)1] Evolutionary Bioinformatics, Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity,
University of Muenster, Huefferstrasse 1, D-48149, Muenster, Germany [2]
Department of Bioinformatics, Institute for Computer Science, University of
Duesseldorf, Universitätsstrasse 1, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany.
(16)Department of Forest Ecosystems and Society, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(17)1] Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University,
2082-Cordley Hall, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA [2] Center for Genome Research
and Biocomputing, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(18)Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University,
2082-Cordley Hall, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(19)Center for Genome Research and Biocomputing, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(20)1] Laboratório de Biologia Evolutiva Teórica e Aplicada, Departamento de
Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Av. Prof. Rodolpho Paulo
Rocco, 21949900 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil [2] Departamento de Biotecnologia, Escola 
de Engenharia de Lorena-Universidade de São Paulo (EEL-USP), CP116, 12602-810,
Lorena-SP, Brazil [3] Laboratório de Genética Molecular Vegetal (LGMV),
Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Av.
Prof. Rodolpho Paulo Rocco, 21949900 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(21)Laboratório de Genética Molecular Vegetal (LGMV), Departamento de Genética,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), Av. Prof. Rodolpho Paulo Rocco,
21949900 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(22)Research School of Biology, Australian National University, Canberra 0200,
Australia.
(23)1] Laboratoire de Recherche en Sciences Végétales, UMR 5546, Université
Toulouse III, UPS, CNRS, BP 42617, 31326 Castanet Tolosan, France [2] IICT/MNE;
Palácio Burnay - Rua da Junqueira, 30, 1349-007 Lisboa, Portugal [3] IBET/ITQB,
Av. República, Quinta do Marquês, 2781-901 Oeiras, Portugal.
(24)1] IICT/MNE; Palácio Burnay - Rua da Junqueira, 30, 1349-007 Lisboa, Portugal
[2] IBET/ITQB, Av. República, Quinta do Marquês, 2781-901 Oeiras, Portugal.
(25)Arizona Genomics Institute, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721,
USA.
(26)Dep. de Fitopatologia, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, Viçosa 36570-000,
Brazil.
(27)Centro de Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, 91501-970
Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(28)Science and Conservation Division, Department of Parks and Wildlife, Locked
Bag 104, Bentley Delivery Centre, Western Australia 6983, Australia.
(29)GYDLE, 1363 av. Maguire, suite 301, Québec, Quebec G1T 1Z2, Canada.
(30)Department of Environment and Primary Industries, Victorian Government,
Melbourne, Victoria 3085, Australia.
(31)Melbourne School of Land and Environment, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Victoria 3010, Australia.
(32)School of Biological Sciences and National Centre for Future Forest
Industries, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 55, Hobart, Tasmania 7001,
Australia.
(33)1] School of Biological Sciences and National Centre for Future Forest
Industries, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 55, Hobart, Tasmania 7001,
Australia [2] Faculty of Science, Health, Education and Engineering, University
of the Sunshine Coast, Queensland 4558, Australia.
(34)1] Genomics Research Institute (GRI), University of Pretoria, Private bag
X20, Pretoria 0028, South Africa [2] Bioinformatics and Computational Biology
Unit, Department of Biochemistry, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, Private bag
X20, Pretoria 0028, South Africa.
(35)Departamento de Biologia Celular, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília
70910-900, Brazil.
(36)1] Genomics Research Institute (GRI), University of Pretoria, Private bag
X20, Pretoria 0028, South Africa [2] Department of Plant Biotechnology and
Bioinformatics (VIB), Ghent University, Technologiepark 927, B-9000 Ghent,
Belgium.
(37)1] US Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive,
Walnut Creek, California 94598, USA [2] HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 
601 Genome Way, Huntsville, Alabama 35801, USA.

Eucalypts are the world's most widely planted hardwood trees. Their outstanding
diversity, adaptability and growth have made them a global renewable resource of 
fibre and energy. We sequenced and assembled >94% of the 640-megabase genome of
Eucalyptus grandis. Of 36,376 predicted protein-coding genes, 34% occur in tandem
duplications, the largest proportion thus far in plant genomes. Eucalyptus also
shows the highest diversity of genes for specialized metabolites such as terpenes
that act as chemical defence and provide unique pharmaceutical oils. Genome
sequencing of the E. grandis sister species E. globulus and a set of inbred E.
grandis tree genomes reveals dynamic genome evolution and hotspots of inbreeding 
depression. The E. grandis genome is the first reference for the eudicot order
Myrtales and is placed here sister to the eurosids. This resource expands our
understanding of the unique biology of large woody perennials and provides a
powerful tool to accelerate comparative biology, breeding and biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13308 
PMID: 24919147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):417-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13421. Epub 2014 Jun 4.

Persistent gut microbiota immaturity in malnourished Bangladeshi children.

Subramanian S(1), Huq S(2), Yatsunenko T(1), Haque R(2), Mahfuz M(2), Alam MA(2),
Benezra A(3), DeStefano J(1), Meier MF(1), Muegge BD(1), Barratt MJ(1),
VanArendonk LG(1), Zhang Q(4), Province MA(4), Petri WA Jr(5), Ahmed T(2), Gordon
JI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University in St.
Louis, St. Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(2)Centre for Nutrition and Food Security, International Centre for Diarrhoeal
Disease Research, Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh.
(3)1] Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University in
St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [2] Department of Anthropology, New
School for Social Research, New York, New York 10003, USA.
(4)Division of Statistical Genomics, Washington University in St. Louis, St.
Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(5)Departments of Medicine, Microbiology and Pathology, University of Virginia
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Jul;11(7):393.
    Genome Biol. 2014;15(6):120.
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):344-5.

Therapeutic food interventions have reduced mortality in children with severe
acute malnutrition (SAM), but incomplete restoration of healthy growth remains a 
major problem. The relationships between the type of nutritional intervention,
the gut microbiota, and therapeutic responses are unclear. In the current study, 
bacterial species whose proportional representation define a healthy gut
microbiota as it assembles during the first two postnatal years were identified
by applying a machine-learning-based approach to 16S ribosomal RNA data sets
generated from monthly faecal samples obtained from birth onwards in a cohort of 
children living in an urban slum of Dhaka, Bangladesh, who exhibited consistently
healthy growth. These age-discriminatory bacterial species were incorporated into
a model that computes a 'relative microbiota maturity index' and
'microbiota-for-age Z-score' that compare postnatal assembly (defined here as
maturation) of a child's faecal microbiota relative to healthy children of
similar chronologic age. The model was applied to twins and triplets (to test for
associations of these indices with genetic and environmental factors, including
diarrhoea), children with SAM enrolled in a randomized trial of two food
interventions, and children with moderate acute malnutrition. Our results
indicate that SAM is associated with significant relative microbiota immaturity
that is only partially ameliorated following two widely used nutritional
interventions. Immaturity is also evident in less severe forms of malnutrition
and correlates with anthropometric measurements. Microbiota maturity indices
provide a microbial measure of human postnatal development, a way of classifying 
malnourished states, and a parameter for judging therapeutic efficacy. More
prolonged interventions with existing or new therapeutic foods and/or addition of
gut microbes may be needed to achieve enduring repair of gut microbiota
immaturity in childhood malnutrition and improve clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13421 
PMCID: PMC4189846
PMID: 24896187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):370-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13418. Epub 2014 Jun 4.

The mitochondrial deubiquitinase USP30 opposes parkin-mediated mitophagy.

Bingol B(1), Tea JS(1), Phu L(2), Reichelt M(3), Bakalarski CE(4), Song Q(5),
Foreman O(3), Kirkpatrick DS(2), Sheng M(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neuroscience, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA [2].
(2)Department of Protein Chemistry, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
94080, USA.
(4)Department of Bioinformatics & Computational Biology, Genentech, Inc., South
San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(5)Department of Non-Clinical Biostatistics, Genentech, Inc., South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
94080, USA.

Comment in
    CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2014;13(10):1633-4.
    Mov Disord. 2015 Mar;30(3):340.
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):347-8.

Cells maintain healthy mitochondria by degrading damaged mitochondria through
mitophagy; defective mitophagy is linked to Parkinson's disease. Here we report
that USP30, a deubiquitinase localized to mitochondria, antagonizes mitophagy
driven by the ubiquitin ligase parkin (also known as PARK2) and protein kinase
PINK1, which are encoded by two genes associated with Parkinson's disease. Parkin
ubiquitinates and tags damaged mitochondria for clearance. Overexpression of
USP30 removes ubiquitin attached by parkin onto damaged mitochondria and blocks
parkin's ability to drive mitophagy, whereas reducing USP30 activity enhances
mitochondrial degradation in neurons. Global ubiquitination site profiling
identified multiple mitochondrial substrates oppositely regulated by parkin and
USP30. Knockdown of USP30 rescues the defective mitophagy caused by pathogenic
mutations in parkin and improves mitochondrial integrity in parkin- or
PINK1-deficient flies. Knockdown of USP30 in dopaminergic neurons protects flies 
against paraquat toxicity in vivo, ameliorating defects in dopamine levels, motor
function and organismal survival. Thus USP30 inhibition is potentially beneficial
for Parkinson's disease by promoting mitochondrial clearance and quality control.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13418 
PMID: 24896179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):393-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13255. Epub 2014 May 25.

mTORC1 controls the adaptive transition of quiescent stem cells from G0 to
G(Alert).

Rodgers JT(1), King KY(2), Brett JO(1), Cromie MJ(1), Charville GW(1), Maguire
KK(1), Brunson C(1), Mastey N(1), Liu L(1), Tsai CR(2), Goodell MA(2), Rando
TA(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Biology of Aging, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Department of Neurology
and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics and Program in Developmental Biology, Baylor College 
of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(3)1] Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Biology of Aging, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Department of Neurology
and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA [3] Neurology Service and Rehabilitation Research and
Development Center of Excellence, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, 
Palo Alto, California 94304, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Jul 3;15(1):7-8.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Jul;15(7):428-9.

A unique property of many adult stem cells is their ability to exist in a
non-cycling, quiescent state. Although quiescence serves an essential role in
preserving stem cell function until the stem cell is needed in tissue homeostasis
or repair, defects in quiescence can lead to an impairment in tissue function.
The extent to which stem cells can regulate quiescence is unknown. Here we show
that the stem cell quiescent state is composed of two distinct functional phases,
G0 and an 'alert' phase we term G(Alert). Stem cells actively and reversibly
transition between these phases in response to injury-induced systemic signals.
Using genetic mouse models specific to muscle stem cells (or satellite cells), we
show that mTORC1 activity is necessary and sufficient for the transition of
satellite cells from G0 into G(Alert) and that signalling through the HGF
receptor cMet is also necessary. We also identify G0-to-G(Alert) transitions in
several populations of quiescent stem cells. Quiescent stem cells that transition
into G(Alert) possess enhanced tissue regenerative function. We propose that the 
transition of quiescent stem cells into G(Alert) functions as an 'alerting'
mechanism, an adaptive response that positions stem cells to respond rapidly
under conditions of injury and stress, priming them for cell cycle entry.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13255 
PMCID: PMC4065227
PMID: 24870234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):397-401. doi: 10.1038/nature13264. Epub 2014 May
14.

The metabolite α-ketoglutarate extends lifespan by inhibiting ATP synthase and
TOR.

Chin RM(1), Fu X(2), Pai MY(3), Vergnes L(4), Hwang H(5), Deng G(6), Diep S(2),
Lomenick B(2), Meli VS(7), Monsalve GC(7), Hu E(2), Whelan SA(8), Wang JX(9),
Jung G(2), Solis GM(10), Fazlollahi F(11), Kaweeteerawat C(12), Quach A(2), Nili 
M(13), Krall AS(2), Godwin HA(12), Chang HR(8), Faull KF(11), Guo F(7), Jiang
M(2), Trauger SA(9), Saghatelian A(14), Braas D(15), Christofk HR(15), Clarke
CF(16), Teitell MA(17), Petrascheck M(10), Reue K(18), Jung ME(16), Frand AR(7), 
Huang J(19).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(3)1] Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA [2].
(4)1] Department of Human Genetics, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA [2].
(5)1] Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, University of California 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2].
(6)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(7)Department of Biological Chemistry, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(8)Department of Surgery, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.
(9)Small Molecule Mass Spectrometry Facility, FAS Division of Science, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(10)Department of Chemical Physiology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, 
California 92037, USA.
(11)Pasarow Mass Spectrometry Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and
Biobehavioral Sciences and Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior,
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(12)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(13)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(14)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(15)1] Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, University of California
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] UCLA Metabolomics Center,
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(16)1] Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(17)1] Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095,
USA.
(18)1] Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] Department of Human Genetics, University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(19)1] Molecular Biology Institute, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90095, USA [2] Department of Molecular and Medical
Pharmacology, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Jul 1;20(1):8-9.
    Sci Transl Med. 2014 Jul 9;6(244):.

Metabolism and ageing are intimately linked. Compared with ad libitum feeding,
dietary restriction consistently extends lifespan and delays age-related diseases
in evolutionarily diverse organisms. Similar conditions of nutrient limitation
and genetic or pharmacological perturbations of nutrient or energy metabolism
also have longevity benefits. Recently, several metabolites have been identified 
that modulate ageing; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying this are
largely undefined. Here we show that α-ketoglutarate (α-KG), a tricarboxylic acid
cycle intermediate, extends the lifespan of adult Caenorhabditis elegans. ATP
synthase subunit β is identified as a novel binding protein of α-KG using a
small-molecule target identification strategy termed drug affinity responsive
target stability (DARTS). The ATP synthase, also known as complex V of the
mitochondrial electron transport chain, is the main cellular energy-generating
machinery and is highly conserved throughout evolution. Although complete loss of
mitochondrial function is detrimental, partial suppression of the electron
transport chain has been shown to extend C. elegans lifespan. We show that α-KG
inhibits ATP synthase and, similar to ATP synthase knockdown, inhibition by α-KG 
leads to reduced ATP content, decreased oxygen consumption, and increased
autophagy in both C. elegans and mammalian cells. We provide evidence that the
lifespan increase by α-KG requires ATP synthase subunit β and is dependent on
target of rapamycin (TOR) downstream. Endogenous α-KG levels are increased on
starvation and α-KG does not extend the lifespan of dietary-restricted animals,
indicating that α-KG is a key metabolite that mediates longevity by dietary
restriction. Our analyses uncover new molecular links between a common
metabolite, a universal cellular energy generator and dietary restriction in the 
regulation of organismal lifespan, thus suggesting new strategies for the
prevention and treatment of ageing and age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13264 
PMCID: PMC4263271
PMID: 24828042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):422-426. doi: 10.1038/nature13263. Epub 2014 May
11.

Ribosomal oxygenases are structurally conserved from prokaryotes to humans.

Chowdhury R(1), Sekirnik R(#)(1), Brissett NC(#)(2), Krojer T(3), Ho CH(1), Ng
SS(3), Clifton IJ(1), Ge W(1), Kershaw NJ(1), Fox GC(4), Muniz JRC(3), Vollmar
M(3), Phillips C(3), Pilka ES(3), Kavanagh KL(3), von Delft F(3), Oppermann
U(3)(5), McDonough MA(1), Doherty AJ(2), Schofield CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Chemistry and Oxford Centre for Integrative Systems Biology,
University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3TA, U.K.
(2)Genome Damage and Stability Centre, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9RQ,
U.K.
(3)Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Oxford, Headington, Oxford OX3
7DQ, U.K.
(4)Synchrotron SOLEIL, Saint Aubin, 91192 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France.
(5)NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Unit, Botnar Research Centre, Oxford OX3 7LD, 
UK.
(#)Contributed equally

2-Oxoglutarate (2OG)-dependent oxygenases have important roles in the regulation 
of gene expression via demethylation of N-methylated chromatin components and in 
the hydroxylation of transcription factors and splicing factor proteins.
Recently, 2OG-dependent oxygenases that catalyse hydroxylation of transfer RNA
and ribosomal proteins have been shown to be important in translation relating to
cellular growth, TH17-cell differentiation and translational accuracy. The
finding that ribosomal oxygenases (ROXs) occur in organisms ranging from
prokaryotes to humans raises questions as to their structural and evolutionary
relationships. In Escherichia coli, YcfD catalyses arginine hydroxylation in the 
ribosomal protein L16; in humans, MYC-induced nuclear antigen (MINA53; also known
as MINA) and nucleolar protein 66 (NO66) catalyse histidine hydroxylation in the 
ribosomal proteins RPL27A and RPL8, respectively. The functional assignments of
ROXs open therapeutic possibilities via either ROX inhibition or targeting of
differentially modified ribosomes. Despite differences in the residue and protein
selectivities of prokaryotic and eukaryotic ROXs, comparison of the crystal
structures of E. coli YcfD and Rhodothermus marinus YcfD with those of human
MINA53 and NO66 reveals highly conserved folds and novel dimerization modes
defining a new structural subfamily of 2OG-dependent oxygenases. ROX structures
with and without their substrates support their functional assignments as
hydroxylases but not demethylases, and reveal how the subfamily has evolved to
catalyse the hydroxylation of different residue side chains of ribosomal
proteins. Comparison of ROX crystal structures with those of other
JmjC-domain-containing hydroxylases, including the hypoxia-inducible factor
asparaginyl hydroxylase FIH and histone N(ε)-methyl lysine demethylases,
identifies branch points in 2OG-dependent oxygenase evolution and distinguishes
between JmjC-containing hydroxylases and demethylases catalysing modifications of
translational and transcriptional machinery. The structures reveal that new
protein hydroxylation activities can evolve by changing the coordination position
from which the iron-bound substrate-oxidizing species reacts. This coordination
flexibility has probably contributed to the evolution of the wide range of
reactions catalysed by oxygenases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13263 
PMCID: PMC4066111
PMID: 24814345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):412-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13261. Epub 2014 May 11.

CFIm25 links alternative polyadenylation to glioblastoma tumour suppression.

Masamha CP(1), Xia Z(2), Yang J(3), Albrecht TR(4), Li M(3), Shyu AB(4), Li W(5),
Wagner EJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2].
(2)1] Division of Biostatistics, Dan L Duncan Cancer Center and Department of
Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 77030 Texas,
USA [2].
(3)The Vivian L. Smith Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(5)Division of Biostatistics, Dan L Duncan Cancer Center and Department of
Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 77030 Texas,
USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Sep;24(9):1023-4.

The global shortening of messenger RNAs through alternative polyadenylation (APA)
that occurs during enhanced cellular proliferation represents an important, yet
poorly understood mechanism of regulated gene expression. The 3' untranslated
region (UTR) truncation of growth-promoting mRNA transcripts that relieves
intrinsic microRNA- and AU-rich-element-mediated repression has been observed to 
correlate with cellular transformation; however, the importance to tumorigenicity
of RNA 3'-end-processing factors that potentially govern APA is unknown. Here we 
identify CFIm25 as a broad repressor of proximal poly(A) site usage that, when
depleted, increases cell proliferation. Applying a regression model on standard
RNA-sequencing data for novel APA events, we identified at least 1,450 genes with
shortened 3' UTRs after CFIm25 knockdown, representing 11% of significantly
expressed mRNAs in human cells. Marked increases in the expression of several
known oncogenes, including cyclin D1, are observed as a consequence of CFIm25
depletion. Importantly, we identified a subset of CFIm25-regulated APA genes with
shortened 3' UTRs in glioblastoma tumours that have reduced CFIm25 expression.
Downregulation of CFIm25 expression in glioblastoma cells enhances their
tumorigenic properties and increases tumour size, whereas CFIm25 overexpression
reduces these properties and inhibits tumour growth. These findings identify a
pivotal role of CFIm25 in governing APA and reveal a previously unknown
connection between CFIm25 and glioblastoma tumorigenicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13261 
PMCID: PMC4128630
PMID: 24814343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):427-31. doi: 10.1038/nature13256. Epub 2014 May 11.

Co-opting sulphur-carrier proteins from primary metabolic pathways for
2-thiosugar biosynthesis.

Sasaki E(1), Zhang X(2), Sun HG(3), Lu MY(4), Liu TL(5), Ou A(6), Li JY(7), Chen 
YH(7), Ealick SE(2), Liu HW(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712,
USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New 
York 14853, USA.
(3)Division of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, University of Texas at
Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(4)1] Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan [2]
Genomics Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan.
(5)1] Genomics Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan [2] Institute
of Bioinformatics and Biosignal Transduction, National Cheng-Kung University,
Tainan 701, Taiwan.
(6)Genomics Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan.
(7)Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan.
(8)1] Department of Chemistry, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712, USA [2] Division of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, University
of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Sulphur is an essential element for life and is ubiquitous in living systems. Yet
how the sulphur atom is incorporated into many sulphur-containing secondary
metabolites is poorly understood. For bond formation between carbon and sulphur
in primary metabolites, the major ionic sulphur sources are the persulphide and
thiocarboxylate groups on sulphur-carrier (donor) proteins. Each group is
post-translationally generated through the action of a specific activating
enzyme. In all reported bacterial cases, the gene encoding the enzyme that
catalyses the carbon-sulphur bond formation reaction and that encoding the
cognate sulphur-carrier protein exist in the same gene cluster. To study the
production of the 2-thiosugar moiety in BE-7585A, an antibiotic from
Amycolatopsis orientalis, we identified a putative 2-thioglucose synthase, BexX, 
whose protein sequence and mode of action seem similar to those of ThiG, the
enzyme that catalyses thiazole formation in thiamine biosynthesis. However, no
gene encoding a sulphur-carrier protein could be located in the BE-7585A cluster.
Subsequent genome sequencing uncovered a few genes encoding sulphur-carrier
proteins that are probably involved in the biosynthesis of primary metabolites
but only one activating enzyme gene in the A. orientalis genome. Further
experiments showed that this activating enzyme can adenylate each of these
sulphur-carrier proteins and probably also catalyses the subsequent thiolation,
through its rhodanese domain. A proper combination of these sulphur-delivery
systems is effective for BexX-catalysed 2-thioglucose production. The ability of 
BexX to selectively distinguish sulphur-carrier proteins is given a structural
basis using X-ray crystallography. This study is, to our knowledge, the first
complete characterization of thiosugar formation in nature and also demonstrates 
the receptor promiscuity of the A. orientalis sulphur-delivery system. Our
results also show that co-opting the sulphur-delivery machinery of primary
metabolism for the biosynthesis of sulphur-containing natural products is
probably a general strategy found in nature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13256 
PMCID: PMC4082789
PMID: 24814342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):402-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13239. Epub 2014 May 4.

PTEN action in leukaemia dictated by the tissue microenvironment.

Miething C(1), Scuoppo C(2), Bosbach B(3), Appelmann I(4), Nakitandwe J(5), Ma
J(5), Wu G(5), Lintault L(6), Auer M(7), Premsrirut PK(2), Teruya-Feldstein J(3),
Hicks J(2), Benveniste H(8), Speicher MR(7), Downing JR(5), Lowe SW(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2]
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA [3]
Department of Medicine I, Medical Center - University of Freiburg, 79106
Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(3)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)1] Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2]
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(6)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA [2] 
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(7)Institute of Human Genetics, Medical University of Graz, A-8010 Graz, Austria.
(8)Departments of Anesthesiology and Radiology, Stony Brook University, Stony
Brook, New York 11794, USA.
(9)1] Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2]
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA [3] Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, New York, New York 10065, USA.

PTEN encodes a lipid phosphatase that is underexpressed in many cancers owing to 
deletions, mutations or gene silencing. PTEN dephosphorylates
phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-triphosphate, thereby opposing the activity of class
I phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases that mediate growth- and survival-factor
signalling through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase effectors such as AKT and mTOR. 
To determine whether continued PTEN inactivation is required to maintain
malignancy, here we generate an RNA interference-based transgenic mouse model
that allows tetracycline-dependent regulation of PTEN in a time- and
tissue-specific manner. Postnatal Pten knockdown in the haematopoietic
compartment produced highly disseminated T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
Notably, reactivation of PTEN mainly reduced T-cell leukaemia dissemination but
had little effect on tumour load in haematopoietic organs. Leukaemia infiltration
into the intestine was dependent on CCR9 G-protein-coupled receptor signalling,
which was amplified by PTEN loss. Our results suggest that in the absence of
PTEN, G-protein-coupled receptors may have an unanticipated role in driving
tumour growth and invasion in an unsupportive environment. They further reveal
that the role of PTEN loss in tumour maintenance is not invariant and can be
influenced by the tissue microenvironment, thereby producing a form of
intratumoral heterogeneity that is independent of cancer genotype.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13239 
PMCID: PMC4165899
PMID: 24805236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):254-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13327.

Increased frequency of extreme Indian Ocean Dipole events due to greenhouse
warming.

Cai W(1), Santoso A(2), Wang G(3), Weller E(4), Wu L(5), Ashok K(6), Masumoto
Y(7), Yamagata T(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, Aspendale, Victoria, 3195 Australia 
[2] Physical Oceanography Laboratory, Qingdao Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Marine Science and Technology, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003 China.
(2)Climate Change Research Centre and ARC Centre of Excellence for Climate System
Science, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, 2052 Australia.
(3)1] Physical Oceanography Laboratory, Qingdao Collaborative Innovation Center
of Marine Science and Technology, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003
China [2] CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, Aspendale, Victoria, 3195
Australia.
(4)CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, Aspendale, Victoria, 3195 Australia.
(5)Physical Oceanography Laboratory, Qingdao Collaborative Innovation Center of
Marine Science and Technology, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003 China.
(6)Centre for Climate Change Research, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology
Pashan, Pune 411 008, India.
(7)1] Department of Earth and Planetary Science, Graduate School of Science, The 
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan [2] Climate
Variation Predictability and Applicatability Research Program, Japan Agency for
Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC), 3173-25 Showa-machi, Kanazawa-ku, 
Yokohama 236-0001, Japan.
(8)Application Laboratory, JAMSTEC, 3173-25 Showa-machi, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama
236-0001, Japan.

The Indian Ocean dipole is a prominent mode of coupled ocean-atmosphere
variability, affecting the lives of millions of people in Indian Ocean rim
countries. In its positive phase, sea surface temperatures are lower than normal 
off the Sumatra-Java coast, but higher in the western tropical Indian Ocean.
During the extreme positive-IOD (pIOD) events of 1961, 1994 and 1997, the eastern
cooling strengthened and extended westward along the equatorial Indian Ocean
through strong reversal of both the mean westerly winds and the associated
eastward-flowing upper ocean currents. This created anomalously dry conditions
from the eastern to the central Indian Ocean along the Equator and atmospheric
convergence farther west, leading to catastrophic floods in eastern tropical
African countries but devastating droughts in eastern Indian Ocean rim countries.
Despite these serious consequences, the response of pIOD events to greenhouse
warming is unknown. Here, using an ensemble of climate models forced by a
scenario of high greenhouse gas emissions (Representative Concentration Pathway
8.5), we project that the frequency of extreme pIOD events will increase by
almost a factor of three, from one event every 17.3 years over the twentieth
century to one event every 6.3 years over the twenty-first century. We find that 
a mean state change--with weakening of both equatorial westerly winds and
eastward oceanic currents in association with a faster warming in the western
than the eastern equatorial Indian Ocean--facilitates more frequent occurrences
of wind and oceanic current reversal. This leads to more frequent extreme pIOD
events, suggesting an increasing frequency of extreme climate and weather events 
in regions affected by the pIOD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13327 
PMID: 24919920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):250-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13381.

Nanotwinned diamond with unprecedented hardness and stability.

Huang Q(1), Yu D(1), Xu B(1), Hu W(1), Ma Y(2), Wang Y(3), Zhao Z(4), Wen B(4),
He J(4), Liu Z(4), Tian Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Metastable Materials Science and Technology,
Yanshan University, Qinhuangdao 066004, China [2].
(2)State Key Laboratory for Superhard Materials, Jilin University, Changchun
130012, China.
(3)Center for Advanced Radiation Sources, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60439, USA.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Metastable Materials Science and Technology, Yanshan
University, Qinhuangdao 066004, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):220-1.

Although diamond is the hardest material for cutting tools, poor thermal
stability has limited its applications, especially at high temperatures.
Simultaneous improvement of the hardness and thermal stability of diamond has
long been desirable. According to the Hall-Petch effect, the hardness of diamond 
can be enhanced by nanostructuring (by means of nanograined and nanotwinned
microstructures), as shown in previous studies. However, for well-sintered
nanograined diamonds, the grain sizes are technically limited to 10-30 nm (ref.
3), with degraded thermal stability compared with that of natural diamond. Recent
success in synthesizing nanotwinned cubic boron nitride (nt-cBN) with a twin
thickness down to ∼3.8 nm makes it feasible to simultaneously achieve smaller
nanosize, ultrahardness and superior thermal stability. At present, nanotwinned
diamond (nt-diamond) has not been fabricated successfully through direct
conversions of various carbon precursors (such as graphite, amorphous carbon,
glassy carbon and C60). Here we report the direct synthesis of nt-diamond with an
average twin thickness of ∼5 nm, using a precursor of onion carbon nanoparticles 
at high pressure and high temperature, and the observation of a new monoclinic
crystalline form of diamond coexisting with nt-diamond. The pure synthetic bulk
nt-diamond material shows unprecedented hardness and thermal stability, with
Vickers hardness up to ∼200 GPa and an in-air oxidization temperature more than
200 °C higher than that of natural diamond. The creation of nanotwinned
microstructures offers a general pathway for manufacturing new advanced
carbon-based materials with exceptional thermal stability and mechanical
properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13381 
PMID: 24919919 


556. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):247-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13325.

Two γ-ray bursts from dusty regions with little molecular gas.

Hatsukade B(1), Ohta K(2), Endo A(3), Nakanishi K(4), Tamura Y(5), Hashimoto
T(1), Kohno K(6).

Author information: 
(1)National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, 2-21-1 Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo
181-8588, Japan.
(2)Department of Astronomy, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.
(3)Kavli Institute of NanoScience, Faculty of Applied Sciences, Delft University 
of Technology, Lorentzweg 1, 2628 CJ Delft, The Netherlands.
(4)1] National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, 2-21-1 Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo
181-8588, Japan [2] Joint ALMA Observatory, Alonso de Córdova 3107, Vitacura,
Santiago 763 0355, Chile [3] The Graduate University for Advanced Studies
(SOKENDAI), 2-21-1 Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo 181-8588, Japan.
(5)Institute of Astronomy, University of Tokyo, 2-21-1 Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo
181-0015, Japan.
(6)1] Institute of Astronomy, University of Tokyo, 2-21-1 Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo
181-0015, Japan [2] Research Centre for the Early Universe, University of Tokyo, 
7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

Long-duration γ-ray bursts are associated with the explosions of massive stars
and are accordingly expected to reside in star-forming regions with molecular gas
(the fuel for star formation). Previous searches for carbon monoxide (CO), a
tracer of molecular gas, in burst host galaxies did not detect any emission.
Molecules have been detected as absorption in the spectra of γ-ray burst
afterglows, and the molecular gas is similar to the translucent or diffuse
molecular clouds of the Milky Way. Absorption lines probe the interstellar medium
only along the line of sight, so it is not clear whether the molecular gas
represents the general properties of the regions where the bursts occur. Here we 
report spatially resolved observations of CO line emission and
millimetre-wavelength continuum emission in two galaxies hosting γ-ray bursts.
The bursts happened in regions rich in dust, but not particularly rich in
molecular gas. The ratio of molecular gas to dust (<9-14) is significantly lower 
than in star-forming regions of the Milky Way and nearby star-forming galaxies,
suggesting that much of the dense gas where stars form has been dissipated by
other massive stars.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13325 
PMID: 24919918 


557. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):229-34. doi: 10.1038/nature13432. Epub 2014 Jun 4.

Search for Majorana neutrinos with the first two years of EXO-200 data.

EXO-200 Collaboration.

Collaborators: Albert JB, Auty DJ, Barbeau PS, Beauchamp E, Beck D, Belov V,
Benitez-Medina C, Bonatt J, Breidenbach M, Brunner T, Burenkov A, Cao GF,
Chambers C, Chaves J, Cleveland B, Coon M, Craycraft A, Daniels T, Danilov M,
Daugherty SJ, Davis CG, Davis J, DeVoe R, Delaquis S, Didberidze T, Dolgolenko A,
Dolinski MJ, Dunford M, Fairbank W Jr, Farine J, Feldmeier W, Fierlinger P,
Fudenberg D, Giroux G, Gornea R, Graham K, Gratta G, Hall C, Herrin S, Hughes M, 
Jewell MJ, Jiang XS, Johnson A, Johnson TN, Johnston S, Karelin A, Kaufman LJ,
Killick R, Koffas T, Kravitz S, Kuchenkov A, Kumar KS, Leonard DS, Leonard F,
Licciardi C, Lin YH, MacLellan R, Marino MG, Mong B, Moore D, Nelson R, Odian A, 
Ostrovskiy I, Ouellet C, Piepke A, Pocar A, Prescott CY, Rivas A, Rowson PC, Rozo
MP, Russell JJ, Schubert A, Sinclair D, Slutsky S, Smith E, Stekhanov V, Tarka M,
Tolba T, Tosi D, Twelker K, Vogel P, Vuilleumier JL, Waite A, Walton J, Walton T,
Weber M, Wen LJ, Wichoski U, Wright JD, Yang L, Yen YR, Zeldovich OY, Zhao YB.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):224-5.

Many extensions of the standard model of particle physics suggest that neutrinos 
should be Majorana-type fermions-that is, that neutrinos are their own
anti-particles-but this assumption is difficult to confirm. Observation of
neutrinoless double-β decay (0νββ), a spontaneous transition that may occur in
several candidate nuclei, would verify the Majorana nature of the neutrino and
constrain the absolute scale of the neutrino mass spectrum. Recent searches
carried out with (76)Ge (the GERDA experiment) and (136)Xe (the KamLAND-Zen and
EXO (Enriched Xenon Observatory)-200 experiments) have established the lifetime
of this decay to be longer than 10(25) years, corresponding to a limit on the
neutrino mass of 0.2-0.4 electronvolts. Here we report new results from EXO-200
based on a large (136)Xe exposure that represents an almost fourfold increase
from our earlier published data sets. We have improved the detector resolution
and revised the data analysis. The half-life sensitivity we obtain is
1.9 × 10(25) years, an improvement by a factor of 2.7 on previous EXO-200
results. We find no statistically significant evidence for 0νββ decay and set a
half-life limit of 1.1 × 10(25) years at the 90 per cent confidence level. The
high sensitivity holds promise for further running of the EXO-200 detector and
future 0νββ decay searches with an improved Xe-based experiment, nEXO.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13432 
PMID: 24896189 


558. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):288-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13386. Epub 2014 May 28.

CTP synthase 1 deficiency in humans reveals its central role in lymphocyte
proliferation.

Martin E(1), Palmic N(1), Sanquer S(2), Lenoir C(1), Hauck F(1), Mongellaz C(3), 
Fabrega S(4), Nitschké P(5), Esposti MD(6), Schwartzentruber J(7), Taylor N(3),
Majewski J(7), Jabado N(8), Wynn RF(9), Picard C(10), Fischer A(11), Arkwright
PD(12), Latour S(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratoire Activation Lymphocytaire et Susceptibilité à l'EBV, INSERM UMR 
1163, Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France [2] Université Paris
Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine, Paris 75015, France.
(2)Laboratoire de Biochimie Métabolomique et Protéomique, Hôpital Necker
Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France.
(3)Hematopoiesis and Immunotherapy, CNRS-UMR 5535, Institut de Génétique
Moléculaire de Montpellier, Montpellier 34293, France.
(4)1] Université Paris Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine, Paris
75015, France [2] Plateforme Vecteurs Viraux et Transfert de Gènes, IFR94,
Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France.
(5)1] Université Paris Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine, Paris
75015, France [2] Service de Bioinformatique, Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades,
Paris 75015, France.
(6)1] University of Manchester, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, Manchester 
M13 0WL, UK [2] Italian Institute of Technology, Genoa 16163, Italy.
(7)McGill University and Genome Québec Innovation Centre, Montréal H3A 0G1,
Canada.
(8)1] McGill University and Genome Québec Innovation Centre, Montréal H3A 0G1,
Canada [2] Department of Pediatrics, McGill University Health Center Research
Institute, Montréal H3H 1P3, Canada.
(9)University of Manchester, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, Manchester M13
0WL, UK.
(10)1] Université Paris Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine, Paris
75015, France [2] Centre d'Etude des Déficits Immunitaires, Hôpital Necker
Enfants-Malades, AP-HP, Paris 75015, France [3] Laboratoire Génétique Humaine des
Maladies Infectieuses, INSERM UMR 1163, Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris
75015, France.
(11)1] Laboratoire Activation Lymphocytaire et Susceptibilité à l'EBV, INSERM UMR
1163, Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France [2] Université Paris
Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine, Paris 75015, France [3] Unité
d'Immunologie et Hématologie Pédiatrique, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris
(AP-HP), Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France [4] Collège de
France, Paris 75005, France.
(12)1] University of Manchester, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, Manchester
M13 0WL, UK [2].
(13)1] Laboratoire Activation Lymphocytaire et Susceptibilité à l'EBV, INSERM UMR
1163, Hôpital Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France [2] Université Paris
Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine, Paris 75015, France [3]
Laboratoire de Biochimie Métabolomique et Protéomique, Hôpital Necker
Enfants-Malades, Paris 75015, France [4].

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Jul 17;511(7509):370.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):222-3.

Lymphocyte functions triggered by antigen recognition and co-stimulation signals 
are associated with a rapid and intense cell division, and hence with metabolism 
adaptation. The nucleotide cytidine 5' triphosphate (CTP) is a precursor required
for the metabolism of DNA, RNA and phospholipids. CTP originates from two
sources: a salvage pathway and a de novo synthesis pathway that depends on two
enzymes, the CTP synthases (or synthetases) 1 and 2 (CTPS1 with CTPS2); the
respective roles of these two enzymes are not known. CTP synthase activity is a
potentially important step for DNA synthesis in lymphocytes. Here we report the
identification of a loss-of-function homozygous mutation (rs145092287) in CTPS1
in humans that causes a novel and life-threatening immunodeficiency,
characterized by an impaired capacity of activated T and B cells to proliferate
in response to antigen receptor-mediated activation. In contrast, proximal and
distal T-cell receptor (TCR) signalling events and responses were only weakly
affected by the absence of CTPS1. Activated CTPS1-deficient cells had decreased
levels of CTP. Normal T-cell proliferation was restored in CTPS1-deficient cells 
by expressing wild-type CTPS1 or by addition of exogenous CTP or its nucleoside
precursor, cytidine. CTPS1 expression was found to be low in resting T cells, but
rapidly upregulated following TCR activation. These results highlight a key and
specific role of CTPS1 in the immune system by its capacity to sustain the
proliferation of activated lymphocytes during the immune response. CTPS1 may
therefore represent a therapeutic target of immunosuppressive drugs that could
specifically dampen lymphocyte activation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13386 
PMID: 24870241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):235-240. doi: 10.1038/nature13420. Epub 2014 May
28.

Targeted genome editing in human repopulating haematopoietic stem cells.

Genovese P(1), Schiroli G(#)(1)(2), Escobar G(#)(1)(2), Tomaso TD(1), Firrito
C(1), Calabria A(1), Moi D(1), Mazzieri R(1), Bonini C(3), Holmes MC(4), Gregory 
PD(4), van der Burg M(5), Gentner B(1)(2), Montini E(1), Lombardo A(1)(2),
Naldini L(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)TIGET, San Raffaele Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy, San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(2)Vita Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.
(3)Experimental Hematology Unit, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(4)Sangamo BioSciences Inc., Richmond, CA, United States.
(5)Dept. of Immunology Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):226-7.

Targeted genome editing by artificial nucleases has brought the goal of
site-specific transgene integration and gene correction within the reach of gene 
therapy. However, its application to long-term repopulating haematopoietic stem
cells (HSCs) has remained elusive. Here we show that poor permissiveness to gene 
transfer and limited proficiency of the homology-directed DNA repair pathway
constrain gene targeting in human HSCs. By tailoring delivery platforms and
culture conditions we overcame these barriers and provide stringent evidence of
targeted integration in human HSCs by long-term multilineage repopulation of
transplanted mice. We demonstrate the therapeutic potential of our strategy by
targeting a corrective complementary DNA into the IL2RG gene of HSCs from healthy
donors and a subject with X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID-X1).
Gene-edited HSCs sustained normal haematopoiesis and gave rise to functional
lymphoid cells that possess a selective growth advantage over those carrying
disruptive IL2RG mutations. These results open up new avenues for treating
SCID-X1 and other diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13420 
PMCID: PMC4082311
PMID: 24870228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):283-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13320. Epub 2014 May 21.

SMYD3 links lysine methylation of MAP3K2 to Ras-driven cancer.

Mazur PK(1), Reynoird N(2), Khatri P(3), Jansen PW(4), Wilkinson AW(5), Liu S(6),
Barbash O(7), Van Aller GS(7), Huddleston M(7), Dhanak D(8), Tummino PJ(7),
Kruger RG(7), Garcia BA(6), Butte AJ(9), Vermeulen M(10), Sage J(1), Gozani O(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine,
California 94305, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of
Medicine, California 94305, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Biology, Stanford University, California 94305, USA [2].
(3)Institute for Immunity, Transplantation and Infection, and Department of
Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, California 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Cancer Research and Department of Medical Oncology,
University Medical Center Utrecht, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Biology, Stanford University, California 94305, USA.
(6)Epigenetics Program and Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104,
USA.
(7)Cancer Epigenetics DPU, Oncology R&D, GlaxoSmithKline, Collegeville,
Pennsylvania 19426 USA.
(8)1] Cancer Epigenetics DPU, Oncology R&D, GlaxoSmithKline, Collegeville,
Pennsylvania 19426 USA [2] Janssen Research and Development, 1400 McKean Road,
Spring House, Pennsylvania 19477, USA (D.D.); Department of Molecular Biology,
Faculty of Science, Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences (RIMLS),
Radboud University, 6525GA Nijmegen, The Netherlands (M.V.).
(9)1] Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine,
California 94305, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of
Medicine, California 94305, USA.
(10)1] Department of Molecular Cancer Research and Department of Medical
Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 3508 AB Utrecht, The Netherlands [2]
Janssen Research and Development, 1400 McKean Road, Spring House, Pennsylvania
19477, USA (D.D.); Department of Molecular Biology, Faculty of Science, Radboud
Institute for Molecular Life Sciences (RIMLS), Radboud University, 6525GA
Nijmegen, The Netherlands (M.V.).

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):225-6.
    Cell Res. 2014 Nov;24(11):1282-3.

Deregulation of lysine methylation signalling has emerged as a common
aetiological factor in cancer pathogenesis, with inhibitors of several histone
lysine methyltransferases (KMTs) being developed as chemotherapeutics. The
largely cytoplasmic KMT SMYD3 (SET and MYND domain containing protein 3) is
overexpressed in numerous human tumours. However, the molecular mechanism by
which SMYD3 regulates cancer pathways and its relationship to tumorigenesis in
vivo are largely unknown. Here we show that methylation of MAP3K2 by SMYD3
increases MAP kinase signalling and promotes the formation of Ras-driven
carcinomas. Using mouse models for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and lung
adenocarcinoma, we found that abrogating SMYD3 catalytic activity inhibits tumour
development in response to oncogenic Ras. We used protein array technology to
identify the MAP3K2 kinase as a target of SMYD3. In cancer cell lines,
SMYD3-mediated methylation of MAP3K2 at lysine 260 potentiates activation of the 
Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signalling module and SMYD3 depletion synergizes with a MEK
inhibitor to block Ras-driven tumorigenesis. Finally, the PP2A phosphatase
complex, a key negative regulator of the MAP kinase pathway, binds to MAP3K2 and 
this interaction is blocked by methylation. Together, our results elucidate a new
role for lysine methylation in integrating cytoplasmic kinase-signalling cascades
and establish a pivotal role for SMYD3 in the regulation of oncogenic Ras
signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13320 
PMCID: PMC4122675
PMID: 24847881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):293-297. doi: 10.1038/nature13234. Epub 2014 May 4.

A Ctf4 trimer couples the CMG helicase to DNA polymerase α in the eukaryotic
replisome.

Simon AC(#)(1), Zhou JC(#)(2), Perera RL(1), van Deursen F(3), Evrin C(4),
Ivanova ME(1), Kilkenny ML(1), Renault L(2), Kjaer S(5), Matak-Vinković D(6),
Labib K(4), Costa A(2), Pellegrini L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1GA, UK.
(2)Clare Hall Laboratories, Cancer Research U.K. London Research Institute,
London EN6 3LD, UK.
(3)Cancer Research U.K. Manchester Institute, University of Manchester,
Manchester M20 4BX, UK.
(4)MRC Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, University of Dundee,
Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.
(5)Protein purification, Cancer Research U.K. London Research Institute, London
WC2A 3LY, UK.
(6)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1EW, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Efficient duplication of the genome requires the concerted action of helicase and
DNA polymerases at replication forks to avoid stalling of the replication
machinery and consequent genomic instability. In eukaryotes, the physical
coupling between helicase and DNA polymerases remains poorly understood. Here we 
define the molecular mechanism by which the yeast Ctf4 protein links the
Cdc45-MCM-GINS (CMG) DNA helicase to DNA polymerase α (Pol α) within the
replisome. We use X-ray crystallography and electron microscopy to show that Ctf4
self-associates in a constitutive disk-shaped trimer. Trimerization depends on a 
β-propeller domain in the carboxy-terminal half of the protein, which is fused to
a helical extension that protrudes from one face of the trimeric disk.
Critically, Pol α and the CMG helicase share a common mechanism of interaction
with Ctf4. We show that the amino-terminal tails of the catalytic subunit of Pol 
α and the Sld5 subunit of GINS contain a conserved Ctf4-binding motif that docks 
onto the exposed helical extension of a Ctf4 protomer within the trimer.
Accordingly, we demonstrate that one Ctf4 trimer can support binding of up to
three partner proteins, including the simultaneous association with both Pol α
and GINS. Our findings indicate that Ctf4 can couple two molecules of Pol α to
one CMG helicase within the replisome, providing a new model for lagging-strand
synthesis in eukaryotes that resembles the emerging model for the simpler
replisome of Escherichia coli. The ability of Ctf4 to act as a platform for
multivalent interactions illustrates a mechanism for the concurrent recruitment
of factors that act together at the fork.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13234 
PMCID: PMC4059944
PMID: 24805245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):298-302. doi: 10.1038/nature13236. Epub 2014 May 4.

Quantitative flux analysis reveals folate-dependent NADPH production.

Fan J(1), Ye J(2), Kamphorst JJ(3), Shlomi T(4), Thompson CB(5), Rabinowitz
JD(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative
Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA [2].
(2)1] Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA [2].
(3)Department of Chemistry and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics,
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.
(4)1] Department of Chemistry and Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative
Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA [2] Department
of Computer Science, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000,
Israel.
(5)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):574.

ATP is the dominant energy source in animals for mechanical and electrical work
(for example, muscle contraction or neuronal firing). For chemical work, there is
an equally important role for NADPH, which powers redox defence and reductive
biosynthesis. The most direct route to produce NADPH from glucose is the
oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, with malic enzyme sometimes also important. 
Although the relative contribution of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation to
ATP production has been extensively analysed, similar analysis of NADPH
metabolism has been lacking. Here we demonstrate the ability to directly track,
by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, the passage of deuterium from
labelled substrates into NADPH, and combine this approach with carbon labelling
and mathematical modelling to measure NADPH fluxes. In proliferating cells, the
largest contributor to cytosolic NADPH is the oxidative pentose phosphate
pathway. Surprisingly, a nearly comparable contribution comes from serine-driven 
one-carbon metabolism, in which oxidation of methylene tetrahydrofolate to
10-formyl-tetrahydrofolate is coupled to reduction of NADP(+) to NADPH. Moreover,
tracing of mitochondrial one-carbon metabolism revealed complete oxidation of
10-formyl-tetrahydrofolate to make NADPH. As folate metabolism has not previously
been considered an NADPH producer, confirmation of its functional significance
was undertaken through knockdown of methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase
(MTHFD) genes. Depletion of either the cytosolic or mitochondrial MTHFD isozyme
resulted in decreased cellular NADPH/NADP(+) and reduced/oxidized glutathione
ratios (GSH/GSSG) and increased cell sensitivity to oxidative stress. Thus,
although the importance of folate metabolism for proliferating cells has been
long recognized and attributed to its function of producing one-carbon units for 
nucleic acid synthesis, another crucial function of this pathway is generating
reducing power.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13236 
PMCID: PMC4104482
PMID: 24805240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):263-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13235. Epub 2014 May 4.

Emergence of reproducible spatiotemporal activity during motor learning.

Peters AJ(1), Chen SX(1), Komiyama T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Section, Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior, and Department 
of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA.
(2)1] Neurobiology Section, Center for Neural Circuits and Behavior, and
Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA [2] JST, PRESTO, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.

The motor cortex is capable of reliably driving complex movements yet exhibits
considerable plasticity during motor learning. These observations suggest that
the fundamental relationship between motor cortex activity and movement may not
be fixed but is instead shaped by learning; however, to what extent and how motor
learning shapes this relationship are not fully understood. Here we addressed
this issue by using in vivo two-photon calcium imaging to monitor the activity of
the same population of hundreds of layer 2/3 neurons while mice learned a
forelimb lever-press task over two weeks. Excitatory and inhibitory neurons were 
identified by transgenic labelling. Inhibitory neuron activity was relatively
stable and balanced local excitatory neuron activity on a movement-by-movement
basis, whereas excitatory neuron activity showed higher dynamism during the
initial phase of learning. The dynamics of excitatory neurons during the initial 
phase involved the expansion of the movement-related population which explored
various activity patterns even during similar movements. This was followed by a
refinement into a smaller population exhibiting reproducible spatiotemporal
sequences of activity. This pattern of activity associated with the learned
movement was unique to expert animals and not observed during similar movements
made during the naive phase, and the relationship between neuronal activity and
individual movements became more consistent with learning. These changes in
population activity coincided with a transient increase in dendritic spine
turnover in these neurons. Our results indicate that a novel and reproducible
activity-movement relationship develops as a result of motor learning, and we
speculate that synaptic plasticity within the motor cortex underlies the
emergence of reproducible spatiotemporal activity patterns for learned movements.
These results underscore the profound influence of learning on the way that the
cortex produces movements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13235 
PMID: 24805237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):268-72. doi: 10.1038/nature13228. Epub 2014 Apr 28.

The unfolded protein response governs integrity of the haematopoietic stem-cell
pool during stress.

van Galen P(1), Kreso A(1), Mbong N(1), Kent DG(2), Fitzmaurice T(3), Chambers
JE(4), Xie S(1), Laurenti E(1), Hermans K(1), Eppert K(5), Marciniak SJ(4),
Goodall JC(3), Green AR(2), Wouters BG(6), Wienholds E(1), Dick JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(2)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Wellcome Trust/MRC Stem Cell
Institute and Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2
0XY, UK.
(3)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Medicine, Addenbrookes Hospital,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(4)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Wellcome Trust/MRC Stem Cell
Institute and Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0XY,
UK.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, McGill University and the Research Institute of the 
McGill University Health Centre, Westmount, Québec H3Z 2Z3, Canada.
(6)Departments of Radiation Oncology and Medical Biophysics, Princess Margaret
Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Jun;15(6):364-5.

The blood system is sustained by a pool of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) that 
are long-lived due to their capacity for self-renewal. A consequence of longevity
is exposure to stress stimuli including reactive oxygen species (ROS), nutrient
fluctuation and DNA damage. Damage that occurs within stressed HSCs must be
tightly controlled to prevent either loss of function or the clonal persistence
of oncogenic mutations that increase the risk of leukaemogenesis. Despite the
importance of maintaining cell integrity throughout life, how the HSC pool
achieves this and how individual HSCs respond to stress remain poorly understood.
Many sources of stress cause misfolded protein accumulation in the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER), and subsequent activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) 
enables the cell to either resolve stress or initiate apoptosis. Here we show
that human HSCs are predisposed to apoptosis through strong activation of the
PERK branch of the UPR after ER stress, whereas closely related progenitors
exhibit an adaptive response leading to their survival. Enhanced ER protein
folding by overexpression of the co-chaperone ERDJ4 (also called DNAJB9)
increases HSC repopulation capacity in xenograft assays, linking the UPR to HSC
function. Because the UPR is a focal point where different sources of stress
converge, our study provides a framework for understanding how stress signalling 
is coordinated within tissue hierarchies and integrated with stemness. Broadly,
these findings reveal that the HSC pool maintains clonal integrity by clearance
of individual HSCs after stress to prevent propagation of damaged stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13228 
PMID: 24776803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):273-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13233. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Human embryonic-stem-cell-derived cardiomyocytes regenerate non-human primate
hearts.

Chong JJ(1), Yang X(2), Don CW(3), Minami E(4), Liu YW(2), Weyers JJ(2), Mahoney 
WM(2), Van Biber B(2), Cook SM(5), Palpant NJ(2), Gantz JA(6), Fugate JA(2),
Muskheli V(2), Gough GM(7), Vogel KW(7), Astley CA(7), Hotchkiss CE(7),
Baldessari A(7), Pabon L(2), Reinecke H(2), Gill EA(3), Nelson V(8), Kiem HP(9), 
Laflamme MA(2), Murry CE(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Cardiovascular Biology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA [2] Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [3] Department of
Cardiology Westmead Hospital, Westmead, New South Wales 2145, Australia [4]
School of Medicine, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia
[5] Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA [6] University of Sydney School of Medicine, Sydney, New South Wales 2006,
Australia and Westmead Millennium Institute and Westmead Hospital, Westmead, New 
South Wales 2145, Australia.
(2)1] Center for Cardiovascular Biology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA [2] Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [3] Department of
Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine/Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(4)1] Center for Cardiovascular Biology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA [2] Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [3] Department of
Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [4]
Department of Medicine/Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA.
(5)Department of Comparative Medicine, Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(6)1] Center for Cardiovascular Biology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA [2] Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [3] Department of
Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [4]
Department of Bioengineering, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(7)Washington National Primate Research Center, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(8)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(9)1] Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109,
USA.
(10)1] Center for Cardiovascular Biology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98109, USA [2] Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [3] Department of
Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [4]
Department of Medicine/Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA [5] Department of Bioengineering, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2014 Jul 18;115(3):335-8.

Pluripotent stem cells provide a potential solution to current epidemic rates of 
heart failure by providing human cardiomyocytes to support heart regeneration.
Studies of human embryonic-stem-cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hESC-CMs) in
small-animal models have shown favourable effects of this treatment. However, it 
remains unknown whether clinical-scale hESC-CM transplantation is feasible, safe 
or can provide sufficient myocardial regeneration. Here we show that hESC-CMs can
be produced at a clinical scale (more than one billion cells per batch) and
cryopreserved with good viability. Using a non-human primate model of myocardial 
ischaemia followed by reperfusion, we show that cryopreservation and
intra-myocardial delivery of one billion hESC-CMs generates extensive
remuscularization of the infarcted heart. The hESC-CMs showed progressive but
incomplete maturation over a 3-month period. Grafts were perfused by host
vasculature, and electromechanical junctions between graft and host myocytes were
present within 2 weeks of engraftment. Importantly, grafts showed regular calcium
transients that were synchronized to the host electrocardiogram, indicating
electromechanical coupling. In contrast to small-animal models, non-fatal
ventricular arrhythmias were observed in hESC-CM-engrafted primates. Thus,
hESC-CMs can remuscularize substantial amounts of the infarcted monkey heart.
Comparable remuscularization of a human heart should be possible, but potential
arrhythmic complications need to be overcome.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13233 
PMCID: PMC4154594
PMID: 24776797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):259-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13207. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Elevated CO2 further lengthens growing season under warming conditions.

Reyes-Fox M(1), Steltzer H(2), Trlica MJ(3), McMaster GS(4), Andales AA(5),
LeCain DR(6), Morgan JA(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] USDA-ARS, Soil Plant Nutrient Research Unit and Northern Plains Area, Fort 
Collins, Colorado 80526, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Biology, Fort Lewis College, Durango, Colorado 81301, USA
[2].
(3)Department of Forest and Rangeland Stewardship, Colorado State University,
Fort Collins, Colorado 80523, USA.
(4)USDA-ARS, Agricultural Systems Research Unit and Northern Plains Area, Fort
Collins, Colorado 80526, USA.
(5)Department of Soil and Crop Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
Colorado 80523, USA.
(6)USDA-ARS, Rangeland Resources Research Unit, Fort Collins, Colorado 80526,
USA.

Observations of a longer growing season through earlier plant growth in temperate
to polar regions have been thought to be a response to climate warming. However, 
data from experimental warming studies indicate that many species that initiate
leaf growth and flowering earlier also reach seed maturation and senesce earlier,
shortening their active and reproductive periods. A conceptual model to explain
this apparent contradiction, and an analysis of the effect of elevated CO2--which
can delay annual life cycle events--on changing season length, have not been
tested. Here we show that experimental warming in a temperate grassland led to a 
longer growing season through earlier leaf emergence by the first species to
leaf, often a grass, and constant or delayed senescence by other species that
were the last to senesce, supporting the conceptual model. Elevated CO2 further
extended growing, but not reproductive, season length in the warmed grassland by 
conserving water, which enabled most species to remain active longer. Our results
suggest that a longer growing season, especially in years or biomes where water
is a limiting factor, is not due to warming alone, but also to higher atmospheric
CO2 concentrations that extend the active period of plant annual life cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13207 
PMID: 24759322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):278-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13229. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Therapeutic targeting of BET bromodomain proteins in castration-resistant
prostate cancer.

Asangani IA(1), Dommeti VL(2), Wang X(1), Malik R(1), Cieslik M(2), Yang R(3),
Escara-Wilke J(2), Wilder-Romans K(4), Dhanireddy S(2), Engelke C(2), Iyer MK(2),
Jing X(2), Wu YM(1), Cao X(5), Qin ZS(3), Wang S(6), Feng FY(7), Chinnaiyan
AM(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2] Department of Pathology, University of
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(2)Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Emory University, Atlanta,
Georgia 30329, USA.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(5)1] Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(6)1] Departments of Internal Medicine, Pharmacology, and Medicinal Chemistry,
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2]
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.
(7)1] Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2] Department of Radiation Oncology,
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [3]
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.
(8)1] Michigan Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2] Department of Pathology, University of
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA 
[4] Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [5] Department of Urology, University of Michigan
Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(13):2015-6.
    Asian J Androl. 2015 Mar-Apr;17(2):223-4.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Jun;14(6):384-5.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2014 Jun;11(6):303.

Men who develop metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) invariably
succumb to the disease. Progression to CRPC after androgen ablation therapy is
predominantly driven by deregulated androgen receptor (AR) signalling. Despite
the success of recently approved therapies targeting AR signalling, such as
abiraterone and second-generation anti-androgens including MDV3100 (also known as
enzalutamide), durable responses are limited, presumably owing to acquired
resistance. Recently, JQ1 and I-BET762 two selective small-molecule inhibitors
that target the amino-terminal bromodomains of BRD4, have been shown to exhibit
anti-proliferative effects in a range of malignancies. Here we show that
AR-signalling-competent human CRPC cell lines are preferentially sensitive to
bromodomain and extraterminal (BET) inhibition. BRD4 physically interacts with
the N-terminal domain of AR and can be disrupted by JQ1 (refs 11, 13). Like the
direct AR antagonist MDV3100, JQ1 disrupted AR recruitment to target gene loci.
By contrast with MDV3100, JQ1 functions downstream of AR, and more potently
abrogated BRD4 localization to AR target loci and AR-mediated gene transcription,
including induction of the TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion and its oncogenic activity. In
vivo, BET bromodomain inhibition was more efficacious than direct AR antagonism
in CRPC xenograft mouse models. Taken together, these studies provide a novel
epigenetic approach for the concerted blockade of oncogenic drivers in advanced
prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13229 
PMCID: PMC4075966
PMID: 24759320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Nature. 2014 Jun 12;510(7504):241-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13120. Epub 2014 Apr 6.

Homologue engagement controls meiotic DNA break number and distribution.

Thacker D(1), Mohibullah N(2), Zhu X(1), Keeney S(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Molecular Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of
Cornell University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(2)1] Molecular Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)1] Molecular Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York 10065, USA [2] Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences of
Cornell University, New York, New York 10065, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(14):2157-8.

Meiotic recombination promotes genetic diversification as well as pairing and
segregation of homologous chromosomes, but the double-strand breaks (DSBs) that
initiate recombination are dangerous lesions that can cause mutation or meiotic
failure. How cells control DSBs to balance between beneficial and deleterious
outcomes is not well understood. Here we test the hypothesis that DSB control
involves a network of intersecting negative regulatory circuits. Using multiple
complementary methods, we show that DSBs form in greater numbers in Saccharomyces
cerevisiae cells lacking ZMM proteins, a suite of recombination-promoting factors
traditionally regarded as acting strictly downstream of DSB formation.
ZMM-dependent DSB control is genetically distinct from a pathway tying break
formation to meiotic progression through the Ndt80 transcription factor. These
counterintuitive findings suggest that homologous chromosomes that have
successfully engaged one another stop making breaks. Genome-wide DSB maps uncover
distinct responses by different subchromosomal domains to the ZMM mutation zip3
(also known as cst9), and show that Zip3 is required for the previously
unexplained tendency of DSB density to vary with chromosome size. Thus, feedback 
tied to ZMM function contributes in unexpected ways to spatial patterning of
recombination.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13120 
PMCID: PMC4057310
PMID: 24717437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):172-175. doi: 10.1038/nature13419.

Membrane proteins bind lipids selectively to modulate their structure and
function.

Laganowsky A(#)(1), Reading E(#)(1), Allison TM(1), Ulmschneider MB(2), Degiacomi
MT(1), Baldwin AJ(1), Robinson CV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1
5QY, UK.
(2)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland.
(#)Contributed equally

Previous studies have established that the folding, structure and function of
membrane proteins are influenced by their lipid environments and that lipids can 
bind to specific sites, for example, in potassium channels. Fundamental questions
remain however regarding the extent of membrane protein selectivity towards
lipids. Here we report a mass spectrometry approach designed to determine the
selectivity of lipid binding to membrane protein complexes. We investigate the
mechanosensitive channel of large conductance (MscL) from Mycobacterium
tuberculosis and aquaporin Z (AqpZ) and the ammonia channel (AmtB) from
Escherichia coli, using ion mobility mass spectrometry (IM-MS), which reports
gas-phase collision cross-sections. We demonstrate that folded conformations of
membrane protein complexes can exist in the gas phase. By resolving lipid-bound
states, we then rank bound lipids on the basis of their ability to resist gas
phase unfolding and thereby stabilize membrane protein structure. Lipids bind
non-selectively and with high avidity to MscL, all imparting comparable
stability; however, the highest-ranking lipid is phosphatidylinositol phosphate, 
in line with its proposed functional role in mechanosensation. AqpZ is also
stabilized by many lipids, with cardiolipin imparting the most significant
resistance to unfolding. Subsequently, through functional assays we show that
cardiolipin modulates AqpZ function. Similar experiments identify AmtB as being
highly selective for phosphatidylglycerol, prompting us to obtain an X-ray
structure in this lipid membrane-like environment. The 2.3 Å resolution
structure, when compared with others obtained without lipid bound, reveals
distinct conformational changes that re-position AmtB residues to interact with
the lipid bilayer. Our results demonstrate that resistance to unfolding
correlates with specific lipid-binding events, enabling a distinction to be made 
between lipids that merely bind from those that modulate membrane protein
structure and/or function. We anticipate that these findings will be important
not only for defining the selectivity of membrane proteins towards lipids, but
also for understanding the role of lipids in modulating protein function or drug 
binding.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13419 
PMCID: PMC4087533
PMID: 24899312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):126-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13399.

Dynamically important magnetic fields near accreting supermassive black holes.

Zamaninasab M(1), Clausen-Brown E(1), Savolainen T(1), Tchekhovskoy A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Radioastronomie, Auf dem Hügel 69, 53121 Bonn,
Germany.
(2)1] Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Department of Astronomy and Theoretical Astrophysics
Center, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720-3411, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):42-3.

Accreting supermassive black holes at the centres of active galaxies often
produce 'jets'--collimated bipolar outflows of relativistic particles. Magnetic
fields probably play a critical role in jet formation and in accretion disk
physics. A dynamically important magnetic field was recently found near the
Galactic Centre black hole. If this is common and if the field continues to near 
the black hole event horizon, disk structures will be affected, invalidating
assumptions made in standard models. Here we report that jet magnetic field and
accretion disk luminosity are tightly correlated over seven orders of magnitude
for a sample of 76 radio-loud active galaxies. We conclude that the jet-launching
regions of these radio-loud galaxies are threaded by dynamically important
fields, which will affect the disk properties. These fields obstruct gas infall, 
compress the accretion disk vertically, slow down the disk rotation by carrying
away its angular momentum in an outflow and determine the directionality of jets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13399 
PMID: 24899311 


571. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):115-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13413.

miR-34/449 miRNAs are required for motile ciliogenesis by repressing cp110.

Song R(1), Walentek P(2), Sponer N(1), Klimke A(3), Lee JS(4), Dixon G(4),
Harland R(5), Wan Y(6), Lishko P(4), Lize M(7), Kessel M(3), He L(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Cellular and Developmental Biology, MCB Department, University 
of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94705, USA [2].
(2)1] Division of Genetics, Genomics and Development, Centre for Integrative
Genomics, MCB Department, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94705, USA [2].
(3)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
Chemistry, Goettingen 37077, Germany.
(4)Division of Cellular and Developmental Biology, MCB Department, University of 
California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94705, USA.
(5)Division of Genetics, Genomics and Development, Centre for Integrative
Genomics, MCB Department, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94705, USA.
(6)The Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China.
(7)Department of Molecular Oncology, University of Goettingen, Goettingen 37073, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):40-2.

The mir-34/449 family consists of six homologous miRNAs at three genomic loci.
Redundancy of miR-34/449 miRNAs and their dominant expression in multiciliated
epithelia suggest a functional significance in ciliogenesis. Here we report that 
mice deficient for all miR-34/449 miRNAs exhibited postnatal mortality,
infertility and strong respiratory dysfunction caused by defective mucociliary
clearance. In both mouse and Xenopus, miR-34/449-deficient multiciliated cells
(MCCs) exhibited a significant decrease in cilia length and number, due to
defective basal body maturation and apical docking. The effect of miR-34/449 on
ciliogenesis was mediated, at least in part, by post-transcriptional repression
of Cp110, a centriolar protein suppressing cilia assembly. Consistent with this, 
cp110 knockdown in miR-34/449-deficient MCCs restored ciliogenesis by rescuing
basal body maturation and docking. Altogether, our findings elucidate conserved
cellular and molecular mechanisms through which miR-34/449 regulate motile
ciliogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13413 
PMCID: PMC4119886
PMID: 24899310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):92-101. doi: 10.1038/nature13479.

Pro-resolving lipid mediators are leads for resolution physiology.

Serhan CN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Therapeutics and Reperfusion Injury, Department of
Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Harvard Institutes of Medicine, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that bring about the resolution
of acute inflammation have uncovered a new genus of pro-resolving lipid mediators
that include the lipoxin, resolvin, protectin and maresin families, collectively 
called specialized pro-resolving mediators. Synthetic versions of these mediators
have potent bioactions when administered in vivo. In animal experiments, the
mediators evoke anti-inflammatory and novel pro-resolving mechanisms, and enhance
microbial clearance. Although they have been identified in inflammation
resolution, specialized pro-resolving mediators are conserved structures that
also function in host defence, pain, organ protection and tissue remodelling.
This Review covers the mechanisms of specialized pro-resolving mediators and
omega-3 essential fatty acid pathways that could help us to understand their
physiological functions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13479 
PMCID: PMC4263681
PMID: 24899309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):84-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13478.

The role of hepatic lipids in hepatic insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Perry RJ(1), Samuel VT(2), Petersen KF(3), Shulman GI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(2)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. [2] VA Connecticut Healthcare System West Haven,
Connecticut 06516, USA.
(3)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. [2] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic
Metabolic Research, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2200, Denmark.
(4)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. [2] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic
Metabolic Research, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen DK-2200, Denmark. [3]
Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. [4] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06535-8012, USA.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and its downstream sequelae, hepatic insulin
resistance and type 2 diabetes, are rapidly growing epidemics, which lead to
increased morbidity and mortality rates, and soaring health-care costs.
Developing interventions requires a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms
by which excess hepatic lipid develops and causes hepatic insulin resistance and 
type 2 diabetes. Proposed mechanisms implicate various lipid species,
inflammatory signalling and other cellular modifications. Studies in mice and
humans have elucidated a key role for hepatic diacylglycerol activation of
protein kinase Cε in triggering hepatic insulin resistance. Therapeutic
approaches based on this mechanism could alleviate the related epidemics of
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13478 
PMCID: PMC4489847
PMID: 24899308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):76-83. doi: 10.1038/nature13477.

The different shades of fat.

Peirce V(1), Carobbio S(2), Vidal-Puig A(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Level 4, Wellcome
Trust-MRC Institute of Metabolic Science, Box 289, Addenbrooke's Hospital,
Cambridge CB2 OQQ, UK.
(2)1] University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Level 4, Wellcome 
Trust-MRC Institute of Metabolic Science, Box 289, Addenbrooke's Hospital,
Cambridge CB2 OQQ, UK. [2] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome
Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SA, UK.

Our understanding of adipose tissue biology has progressed rapidly since the turn
of the century. White adipose tissue has emerged as a key determinant of healthy 
metabolism and metabolic dysfunction. This realization is paralleled only by the 
confirmation that adult humans have heat-dissipating brown adipose tissue, an
important contributor to energy balance and a possible therapeutic target for the
treatment of metabolic disease. We propose that the development of successful
strategies to target brown and white adipose tissues will depend on
investigations that elucidate their developmental origins and cell-type-specific 
functional regulators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13477 
PMID: 24899307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):68-75. doi: 10.1038/nature13476.

Sphingolipid lysosomal storage disorders.

Platt FM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QT, UK.

Lysosomal storage diseases are inborn errors of metabolism, the hallmark of which
is the accumulation, or storage, of macromolecules in the late endocytic system. 
They are monogenic disorders that occur at a collective frequency of 1 in 5,000
live births and are caused by inherited defects in genes that mainly encode
lysosomal proteins, most commonly lysosomal enzymes. A subgroup of these diseases
involves the lysosomal storage of glycosphingolipids. Through our understanding
of the genetics, biochemistry and, more recently, cellular aspects of
sphingolipid storage disorders, we have gained insights into fundamental aspects 
of cell biology that would otherwise have remained opaque. In addition, study of 
these disorders has led to significant progress in the development of therapies, 
several of which are now in routine clinical use. Emerging mechanistic links with
more common diseases suggest we need to rethink our current concept of disease
boundaries.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13476 
PMID: 24899306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):58-67. doi: 10.1038/nature13475.

Sphingolipid metabolites in inflammatory disease.

Maceyka M(1), Spiegel S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Virginia Commonwealth
University School of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia 23298, USA.

Sphingolipids are ubiquitous building blocks of eukaryotic cell membranes.
Progress in our understanding of sphingolipid metabolism, state-of-the-art
sphingolipidomic approaches and animal models have generated a large body of
evidence demonstrating that sphingolipid metabolites, particularly ceramide and
sphingosine-1-phosphate, are signalling molecules that regulate a diverse range
of cellular processes that are important in immunity, inflammation and
inflammatory disorders. Recent insights into the molecular mechanisms of action
of sphingolipid metabolites and new perspectives on their roles in regulating
chronic inflammation have been reported. The knowledge gained in this emerging
field will aid in the development of new therapeutic options for inflammatory
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13475 
PMCID: PMC4320971
PMID: 24899305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):48-57. doi: 10.1038/nature13474.

Lipid landscapes and pipelines in membrane homeostasis.

Holthuis JC(1), Menon AK(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Fachbereich Biologie/Chemie, University of Osnabrück, Barbarastrasse 13,
49076 Osnabrück, Germany. [2] Membrane Biochemistry & Biophysics, Bijvoet Center 
for Biomolecular Research and Institute of Biomembranes, Utrecht University, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Weill Cornell Medical College, 1300 York Avenue,
New York, NY 10065, USA.

The lipid composition of cellular organelles is tailored to suit their
specialized tasks. A fundamental transition in the lipid landscape divides the
secretory pathway in early and late membrane territories, allowing an adaptation 
from biogenic to barrier functions. Defending the contrasting features of these
territories against erosion by vesicular traffic poses a major logistical
problem. To this end, cells evolved a network of lipid composition sensors and
pipelines along which lipids are moved by non-vesicular mechanisms. We review
recent insights into the molecular basis of this regulatory network and consider 
examples in which malfunction of its components leads to system failure and
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13474 
PMID: 24899304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):129-33. doi: 10.1038/nature13389. Epub 2014 May 28.

Palladium-catalysed C-H activation of aliphatic amines to give strained nitrogen 
heterocycles.

McNally A(1), Haffemayer B(1), Collins BS(1), Gaunt MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge
CB2 1EW, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Aug 21;512(7514):338.

Comment in
    Nat Chem. 2014 Aug;6(8):661-3.

The development of new chemical transformations based on catalytic
functionalization of unactivated C-H bonds has the potential to simplify the
synthesis of complex molecules dramatically. Transition metal catalysis has
emerged as a powerful tool with which to convert these unreactive bonds into
carbon-carbon and carbon-heteroatom bonds, but the selective transformation of
aliphatic C-H bonds is still a challenge. The most successful approaches involve 
a 'directing group', which positions the metal catalyst near a particular C-H
bond, so that the C-H functionalization step occurs via cyclometallation. Most
directed aliphatic C-H activation processes proceed through a five-membered-ring 
cyclometallated intermediate. Considering the number of new reactions that have
arisen from such intermediates, it seems likely that identification of distinct
cyclometallation pathways would lead to the development of other useful chemical 
transformations. Here we report a palladium-catalysed C-H bond activation mode
that proceeds through a four-membered-ring cyclopalladation pathway. The
chemistry described here leads to the selective transformation of a methyl group 
that is adjacent to an unprotected secondary amine into a synthetically versatile
nitrogen heterocycle. The scope of this previously unknown bond disconnection is 
highlighted through the development of C-H amination and carbonylation processes,
leading to the synthesis of aziridines and β-lactams (respectively), and is
suggestive of a generic C-H functionalization platform that could simplify the
synthesis of aliphatic secondary amines, a class of small molecules that are
particularly important features of many pharmaceutical agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13389 
PMID: 24870240 


579. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):103-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13404. Epub 2014 May 25.

Accurate design of co-assembling multi-component protein nanomaterials.

King NP(1), Bale JB(2), Sheffler W(3), McNamara DE(4), Gonen S(5), Gonen T(6),
Yeates TO(7), Baker D(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Institute for Protein Design, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Graduate Program in Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [3].
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2].
(4)UCLA Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Los Angeles, California 90095, 
USA.
(5)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
19700 Helix Drive, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.
(6)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 19700 Helix
Drive, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA.
(7)1] UCLA Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA [2] UCLA-DOE Institute for Genomics and Proteomics, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA [3] UCLA Molecular Biology Institute, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.
(8)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Institute for Protein Design, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

The self-assembly of proteins into highly ordered nanoscale architectures is a
hallmark of biological systems. The sophisticated functions of these molecular
machines have inspired the development of methods to engineer self-assembling
protein nanostructures; however, the design of multi-component protein
nanomaterials with high accuracy remains an outstanding challenge. Here we report
a computational method for designing protein nanomaterials in which multiple
copies of two distinct subunits co-assemble into a specific architecture. We use 
the method to design five 24-subunit cage-like protein nanomaterials in two
distinct symmetric architectures and experimentally demonstrate that their
structures are in close agreement with the computational design models. The
accuracy of the method and the number and variety of two-component materials that
it makes accessible suggest a route to the construction of functional protein
nanomaterials tailored to specific applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13404 
PMCID: PMC4137318
PMID: 24870237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):134-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13397. Epub 2014 May 28.

Millennial-scale variability in Antarctic ice-sheet discharge during the last
deglaciation.

Weber ME(1), Clark PU(2), Kuhn G(3), Timmermann A(4), Sprenk D(1), Gladstone
R(5), Zhang X(3), Lohmann G(3), Menviel L(6), Chikamoto MO(4), Friedrich T(4),
Ohlwein C(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geology and Mineralogy, University of Cologne, Zuelpicher Strasse
49a, 50935 Cologne, Germany.
(2)College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(3)Alfred-Wegener-Institut Helmholtz-Zentrum für Polar- und Meeresforschung, Am
Alten Hafen 26, 27568 Bremerhaven, Germany.
(4)International Pacific Research Center, School of Ocean and Earth Sciences and 
Technology, University of Hawaii at Manoa, 2525 Correa Road, Honolulu, Hawaii
96822, USA.
(5)Arctic Centre, University of Lapland, PO Box 122, 96101 Rovaniemi, Finland.
(6)1] Climate Change Research Centre, Level 4, Mathews Building, University of
New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia [2] ARC Centre of
Excellence for Climate System Science, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New
South Wales 2052, Australia.
(7)Hans-Ertel Centre for Weather Research/Climate Monitoring Branch,
Meteorological Institute, University of Bonn, Auf dem Hügel 20, 53121 Bonn,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):39-40.

Our understanding of the deglacial evolution of the Antarctic Ice Sheet (AIS)
following the Last Glacial Maximum (26,000-19,000 years ago) is based largely on 
a few well-dated but temporally and geographically restricted terrestrial and
shallow-marine sequences. This sparseness limits our understanding of the
dominant feedbacks between the AIS, Southern Hemisphere climate and global sea
level. Marine records of iceberg-rafted debris (IBRD) provide a nearly continuous
signal of ice-sheet dynamics and variability. IBRD records from the North
Atlantic Ocean have been widely used to reconstruct variability in Northern
Hemisphere ice sheets, but comparable records from the Southern Ocean of the AIS 
are lacking because of the low resolution and large dating uncertainties in
existing sediment cores. Here we present two well-dated, high-resolution IBRD
records that capture a spatially integrated signal of AIS variability during the 
last deglaciation. We document eight events of increased iceberg flux from
various parts of the AIS between 20,000 and 9,000 years ago, in marked contrast
to previous scenarios which identified the main AIS retreat as occurring after
meltwater pulse 1A and continuing into the late Holocene epoch. The highest IBRD 
flux occurred 14,600 years ago, providing the first direct evidence for an
Antarctic contribution to meltwater pulse 1A. Climate model simulations with AIS 
freshwater forcing identify a positive feedback between poleward transport of
Circumpolar Deep Water, subsurface warming and AIS melt, suggesting that small
perturbations to the ice sheet can be substantially enhanced, providing a
possible mechanism for rapid sea-level rise.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13397 
PMID: 24870232 


581. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):121-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13306. Epub 2014 May 18.

Crystal structure of the human glucose transporter GLUT1.

Deng D(1), Xu C(1), Sun P(2), Wu J(1), Yan C(3), Hu M(4), Yan N(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China [2] Center for Structural Biology, School of
Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 
[3] Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China [4].
(2)1] State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China [2] Center for Structural Biology, School of
Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 
[3].
(3)1] State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China [2] Center for Structural Biology, School of
Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(4)1] State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China [2] Center for Structural Biology, School of
Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China 
[3] Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.

The glucose transporter GLUT1 catalyses facilitative diffusion of glucose into
erythrocytes and is responsible for glucose supply to the brain and other organs.
Dysfunctional mutations may lead to GLUT1 deficiency syndrome, whereas
overexpression of GLUT1 is a prognostic indicator for cancer. Despite decades of 
investigation, the structure of GLUT1 remains unknown. Here we report the crystal
structure of human GLUT1 at 3.2 Å resolution. The full-length protein, which has 
a canonical major facilitator superfamily fold, is captured in an inward-open
conformation. This structure allows accurate mapping and potential mechanistic
interpretation of disease-associated mutations in GLUT1. Structure-based analysis
of these mutations provides an insight into the alternating access mechanism of
GLUT1 and other members of the sugar porter subfamily. Structural comparison of
the uniporter GLUT1 with its bacterial homologue XylE, a proton-coupled xylose
symporter, allows examination of the transport mechanisms of both passive
facilitators and active transporters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13306 
PMID: 24847886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):109-14. doi: 10.1038/nature13400. Epub 2014 May 21.

The ctenophore genome and the evolutionary origins of neural systems.

Moroz LL(1), Kocot KM(2), Citarella MR(3), Dosung S(3), Norekian TP(4),
Povolotskaya IS(5), Grigorenko AP(6), Dailey C(7), Berezikov E(8), Buckley KM(9),
Ptitsyn A(3), Reshetov D(10), Mukherjee K(3), Moroz TP(3), Bobkova Y(3), Yu
F(11), Kapitonov VV(12), Jurka J(12), Bobkov YV(3), Swore JJ(4), Girardo DO(4),
Fodor A(3), Gusev F(6), Sanford R(3), Bruders R(4), Kittler E(13), Mills CE(14), 
Rast JP(9), Derelle R(5), Solovyev VV(15), Kondrashov FA(16), Swalla BJ(14),
Sweedler JV(7), Rogaev EI(17), Halanych KM(2), Kohn AB(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] The Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience, University of Florida, 9505
Ocean Shore Blvd, St Augustine, Florida 32080, USA [2] Department of Neuroscience
& McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611,
USA [3] Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington, Friday Harbor,
Washington 98250, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Auburn University, 101 Rouse Life Sciences,
Auburn, Alabama 36849, USA.
(3)The Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience, University of Florida, 9505
Ocean Shore Blvd, St Augustine, Florida 32080, USA.
(4)1] The Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience, University of Florida, 9505
Ocean Shore Blvd, St Augustine, Florida 32080, USA [2] Friday Harbor
Laboratories, University of Washington, Friday Harbor, Washington 98250, USA.
(5)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona 08003, Spain.
(6)1] Department of Psychiatry, Brudnick Neuropsychiatric Research Institute,
University of Massachusetts Medical School, 303 Belmont Street, Worcester,
Massachusetts 01604, USA [2] Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Russian
Academy of Sciences (RAS), Gubkina 3, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(7)Department of Chemistry and the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and
Technology, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(8)European Research Institute for the Biology of Ageing, University of Groningen
Medical Center, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, Building 3226, Room 03.34, 9713 AV
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(9)Department of Medical Biophysics and Department of Immunology, University of
Toronto, Sunnybrook Research Institute 2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario M4N 
3M5, Canada.
(10)Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS),
Gubkina 3, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(11)Department of Neuroscience & McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
(12)Genetic Information Research Institute, 1925 Landings Dr., Mountain View,
California 94043, USA.
(13)Program in Molecular Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
222 Maple Avenue, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts 01545, USA.
(14)Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington, Friday Harbor,
Washington 98250, USA.
(15)Department of Computer Science, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, 
Surrey TW20 0EX, UK.
(16)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona 08003, Spain [3] Institució
Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Pg. Lluis Companys 23, 08010
Barcelona, Spain.
(17)1] Department of Psychiatry, Brudnick Neuropsychiatric Research Institute,
University of Massachusetts Medical School, 303 Belmont Street, Worcester,
Massachusetts 01604, USA [2] Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Russian
Academy of Sciences (RAS), Gubkina 3, Moscow 119991, Russia [3] Center for Brain 
Neurobiology and Neurogenetics and Institute of Cytology and Genetics, RAS,
Lavrentyev Avenue, 10, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia [4] Faculty of Bioengineering
and Bioinformatics, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Leninskiye Gory, 119991
Moscow, Russia.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Aug 18;24(16):R757-61.
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):38-9.

The origins of neural systems remain unresolved. In contrast to other basal
metazoans, ctenophores (comb jellies) have both complex nervous and
mesoderm-derived muscular systems. These holoplanktonic predators also have
sophisticated ciliated locomotion, behaviour and distinct development. Here we
present the draft genome of Pleurobrachia bachei, Pacific sea gooseberry,
together with ten other ctenophore transcriptomes, and show that they are
remarkably distinct from other animal genomes in their content of neurogenic,
immune and developmental genes. Our integrative analyses place Ctenophora as the 
earliest lineage within Metazoa. This hypothesis is supported by comparative
analysis of multiple gene families, including the apparent absence of HOX genes, 
canonical microRNA machinery, and reduced immune complement in ctenophores.
Although two distinct nervous systems are well recognized in ctenophores, many
bilaterian neuron-specific genes and genes of 'classical' neurotransmitter
pathways either are absent or, if present, are not expressed in neurons. Our
metabolomic and physiological data are consistent with the hypothesis that
ctenophore neural systems, and possibly muscle specification, evolved
independently from those in other animals.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13400 
PMCID: PMC4337882
PMID: 24847885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):139-42. doi: 10.1038/nature13179. Epub 2014 May 7.

Increasing CO2 threatens human nutrition.

Myers SS(1), Zanobetti A(2), Kloog I(3), Huybers P(4), Leakey AD(5), Bloom AJ(6),
Carlisle E(6), Dietterich LH(7), Fitzgerald G(8), Hasegawa T(9), Holbrook NM(10),
Nelson RL(11), Ottman MJ(12), Raboy V(13), Sakai H(9), Sartor KA(14), Schwartz
J(2), Seneweera S(15), Tausz M(16), Usui Y(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health,
Boston, Massachusetts, 02215, USA [2] Harvard University Center for the
Environment, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(2)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts, 02215, USA.
(3)The Department of Geography and Environmental Development, Ben-Gurion
University of the Negev, PO Box 653, Beer Sheva, Israel.
(4)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(5)Department of Plant Biology and Institute for Genomic Biology, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(6)Department of Plant Sciences, University of California at Davis, Davis,
California 95616, USA.
(7)University of Pennsylvania, Department of Biology, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104, USA.
(8)Department of Environment and Primary Industries, Horsham, Victoria 3001,
Australia.
(9)National Institute for Agro-Environmental Sciences, Tsukuba, Ibaraki,
305-8604, Japan.
(10)Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(11)United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service,
Soybean/Maize Germplasm, Pathology, and Genetics Research Unit, Department of
Crop Sciences, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(12)School of Plant Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(13)United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service,
Aberdeen, Idaho 83210, USA.
(14)The Nature Conservancy, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87544, USA.
(15)Department of Agriculture and Food Systems, Melbourne School of Land and
Environment, The University of Melbourne, Creswick, Victoria 3363, Australia.
(16)Department of Forest and Ecosystem Science, Melbourne School of Land and
Environment, The University of Melbourne, Creswick, Victoria 3363, Australia.

Dietary deficiencies of zinc and iron are a substantial global public health
problem. An estimated two billion people suffer these deficiencies, causing a
loss of 63 million life-years annually. Most of these people depend on C3 grains 
and legumes as their primary dietary source of zinc and iron. Here we report that
C3 grains and legumes have lower concentrations of zinc and iron when grown under
field conditions at the elevated atmospheric CO2 concentration predicted for the 
middle of this century. C3 crops other than legumes also have lower
concentrations of protein, whereas C4 crops seem to be less affected. Differences
between cultivars of a single crop suggest that breeding for decreased
sensitivity to atmospheric CO2 concentration could partly address these new
challenges to global health.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13179 
PMCID: PMC4810679
PMID: 24805231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):162-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13392. Epub 2014 Jun 4.

Ubiquitin is phosphorylated by PINK1 to activate parkin.

Koyano F(1), Okatsu K(1), Kosako H(2), Tamura Y(3), Go E(4), Kimura M(4), Kimura 
Y(5), Tsuchiya H(4), Yoshihara H(4), Hirokawa T(6), Endo T(7), Fon EA(8), Trempe 
JF(9), Saeki Y(4), Tanaka K(4), Matsuda N(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Protein Metabolism, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan [2] Graduate School of Frontier
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8561, Japan.
(2)Division of Cell Signaling, Fujii Memorial Institute of Medical Sciences, The 
University of Tokushima, Tokushima 770-8503, Japan.
(3)Research Center for Materials Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi
464-8602, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Protein Metabolism, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.
(5)1] Laboratory of Protein Metabolism, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan [2] Graduate School of Agriculture,
Shizuoka University, 836 Ohya, Shizuoka 422-8529, Japan.
(6)Molecular Profiling Research Center for Drug Discovery, National Institute of 
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 2-4-7 Aomi, Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-0064, 
Japan.
(7)1] JST-CREST/Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya
University, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8602, Japan [2] JST-CREST/Faculty of Life
Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo University, Kamigamo-motoyama, Kita-ku, Kyoto 603-8555,
Japan.
(8)McGill Parkinson Program, Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal
Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3A 2B4,
Canada.
(9)Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, McGill University, Montréal, Québec
H3G 1Y6, Canada.
(10)1] Laboratory of Protein Metabolism, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical 
Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan [2] Protein Metabolism Project, Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):44-5.

PINK1 (PTEN induced putative kinase 1) and PARKIN (also known as PARK2) have been
identified as the causal genes responsible for hereditary recessive early-onset
Parkinsonism. PINK1 is a Ser/Thr kinase that specifically accumulates on
depolarized mitochondria, whereas parkin is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that catalyses
ubiquitin transfer to mitochondrial substrates. PINK1 acts as an upstream factor 
for parkin and is essential both for the activation of latent E3 parkin activity 
and for recruiting parkin onto depolarized mitochondria. Recently, mechanistic
insights into mitochondrial quality control mediated by PINK1 and parkin have
been revealed, and PINK1-dependent phosphorylation of parkin has been reported.
However, the requirement of PINK1 for parkin activation was not bypassed by
phosphomimetic parkin mutation, and how PINK1 accelerates the E3 activity of
parkin on damaged mitochondria is still obscure. Here we report that ubiquitin is
the genuine substrate of PINK1. PINK1 phosphorylated ubiquitin at Ser 65 both in 
vitro and in cells, and a Ser 65 phosphopeptide derived from endogenous ubiquitin
was only detected in cells in the presence of PINK1 and following a decrease in
mitochondrial membrane potential. Unexpectedly, phosphomimetic ubiquitin bypassed
PINK1-dependent activation of a phosphomimetic parkin mutant in cells.
Furthermore, phosphomimetic ubiquitin accelerates discharge of the thioester
conjugate formed by UBCH7 (also known as UBE2L3) and ubiquitin (UBCH7∼ubiquitin) 
in the presence of parkin in vitro, indicating that it acts allosterically. The
phosphorylation-dependent interaction between ubiquitin and parkin suggests that 
phosphorylated ubiquitin unlocks autoinhibition of the catalytic cysteine. Our
results show that PINK1-dependent phosphorylation of both parkin and ubiquitin is
sufficient for full activation of parkin E3 activity. These findings demonstrate 
that phosphorylated ubiquitin is a parkin activator.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13392 
PMID: 24784582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):148-51. doi: 10.1038/nature13192. Epub 2014 Apr 28.

Trace-gas metabolic versatility of the facultative methanotroph Methylocella
silvestris.

Crombie AT(1), Murrell JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environmental Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research 
Park, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK.

Comment in
    Trends Microbiol. 2014 Jul;22(7):368-9.

The climate-active gas methane is generated both by biological processes and by
thermogenic decomposition of fossil organic material, which forms methane and
short-chain alkanes, principally ethane, propane and butane. In addition to
natural sources, environments are exposed to anthropogenic inputs of all these
gases from oil and gas extraction and distribution. The gases provide carbon
and/or energy for a diverse range of microorganisms that can metabolize them in
both anoxic and oxic zones. Aerobic methanotrophs, which can assimilate methane, 
have been considered to be entirely distinct from utilizers of short-chain
alkanes, and studies of environments exposed to mixtures of methane and
multi-carbon alkanes have assumed that disparate groups of microorganisms are
responsible for the metabolism of these gases. Here we describe the mechanism by 
which a single bacterial strain, Methylocella silvestris, can use methane or
propane as a carbon and energy source, documenting a methanotroph that can
utilize a short-chain alkane as an alternative to methane. Furthermore, during
growth on a mixture of these gases, efficient consumption of both gases occurred 
at the same time. Two soluble di-iron centre monooxygenase (SDIMO) gene clusters 
were identified and were found to be differentially expressed during bacterial
growth on these gases, although both were required for efficient propane
utilization. This report of a methanotroph expressing an additional SDIMO that
seems to be uniquely involved in short-chain alkane metabolism suggests that such
metabolic flexibility may be important in many environments where methane and
short-chain alkanes co-occur.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13192 
PMID: 24776799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):157-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13199. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Nociceptive sensory neurons drive interleukin-23-mediated psoriasiform skin
inflammation.

Riol-Blanco L(1), Ordovas-Montanes J(1), Perro M(2), Naval E(2), Thiriot A(2),
Alvarez D(2), Paust S(3), Wood JN(4), von Andrian UH(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2].
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)Institute for Biomedical Research, University College London, London WC1E 6BT,
UK.

Comment in
    J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2014 Sep;12(9):833.
    Cell Res. 2014 Sep;24(9):1021-2.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Jun;14(6):354.

The skin has a dual function as a barrier and a sensory interface between the
body and the environment. To protect against invading pathogens, the skin
harbours specialized immune cells, including dermal dendritic cells (DDCs) and
interleukin (IL)-17-producing γδ T (γδT17) cells, the aberrant activation of
which by IL-23 can provoke psoriasis-like inflammation. The skin is also
innervated by a meshwork of peripheral nerves consisting of relatively sparse
autonomic and abundant sensory fibres. Interactions between the autonomic nervous
system and immune cells in lymphoid organs are known to contribute to systemic
immunity, but how peripheral nerves regulate cutaneous immune responses remains
unclear. We exposed the skin of mice to imiquimod, which induces IL-23-dependent 
psoriasis-like inflammation. Here we show that a subset of sensory neurons
expressing the ion channels TRPV1 and Nav1.8 is essential to drive this
inflammatory response. Imaging of intact skin revealed that a large fraction of
DDCs, the principal source of IL-23, is in close contact with these nociceptors. 
Upon selective pharmacological or genetic ablation of nociceptors, DDCs failed to
produce IL-23 in imiquimod-exposed skin. Consequently, the local production of
IL-23-dependent inflammatory cytokines by dermal γδT17 cells and the subsequent
recruitment of inflammatory cells to the skin were markedly reduced. Intradermal 
injection of IL-23 bypassed the requirement for nociceptor communication with
DDCs and restored the inflammatory response. These findings indicate that
TRPV1(+)Nav1.8(+) nociceptors, by interacting with DDCs, regulate the IL-23/IL-17
pathway and control cutaneous immune responses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13199 
PMCID: PMC4127885
PMID: 24759321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):167-71. doi: 10.1038/nature13277. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Oncogene-like induction of cellular invasion from centrosome amplification.

Godinho SA(1), Picone R(2), Burute M(3), Dagher R(2), Su Y(4), Leung CT(5),
Polyak K(4), Brugge JS(6), Théry M(7), Pellman D(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pediatric Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Cell Biology,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Barts Cancer
Institute, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ,
UK (S.A.G.); Department of Pharmacology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA (C.T.L.).
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pediatric Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Children's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Department of Cell Biology,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)1] Institut de Recherche en Technologie et Science pour le Vivant, UMR5168
CEA/UJF/INRA/CNRS, Grenoble, France [2] Hôpital Saint Louis, Institut
Universitaire d'Hematologie, U1160 INSERM/AP-HP/Université Paris Diderot, Paris
75010, France [3] CYTOO SA, Grenoble 38054, France.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London,
Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK (S.A.G.); Department of Pharmacology,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA (C.T.L.).
(6)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(7)1] Institut de Recherche en Technologie et Science pour le Vivant, UMR5168
CEA/UJF/INRA/CNRS, Grenoble, France [2] Hôpital Saint Louis, Institut
Universitaire d'Hematologie, U1160 INSERM/AP-HP/Université Paris Diderot, Paris
75010, France.

Centrosome amplification has long been recognized as a feature of human tumours; 
however, its role in tumorigenesis remains unclear. Centrosome amplification is
poorly tolerated by non-transformed cells and, in the absence of selection, extra
centrosomes are spontaneously lost. Thus, the high frequency of centrosome
amplification, particularly in more aggressive tumours, raises the possibility
that extra centrosomes could, in some contexts, confer advantageous
characteristics that promote tumour progression. Using a three-dimensional model 
system and other approaches to culture human mammary epithelial cells, we find
that centrosome amplification triggers cell invasion. This invasive behaviour is 
similar to that induced by overexpression of the breast cancer oncogene ERBB2
(ref. 4) and indeed enhances invasiveness triggered by ERBB2. Our data indicate
that, through increased centrosomal microtubule nucleation, centrosome
amplification increases Rac1 activity, which disrupts normal cell-cell adhesion
and promotes invasion. These findings demonstrate that centrosome amplification, 
a structural alteration of the cytoskeleton, can promote features of malignant
transformation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13277 
PMCID: PMC4061398
PMID: 24739973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):152-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13279. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Focused specificity of intestinal TH17 cells towards commensal bacterial
antigens.

Yang Y(1), Torchinsky MB(1), Gobert M(1), Xiong H(1), Xu M(1), Linehan JL(2),
Alonzo F(3), Ng C(1), Chen A(1), Lin X(1), Sczesnak A(1), Liao JJ(1), Torres
VJ(3), Jenkins MK(4), Lafaille JJ(1), Littman DR(5).

Author information: 
(1)The Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine of the Skirball Institute, New York
University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.
(2)1] Department of Microbiology, Center for Immunology, University of Minnesota 
Medical School, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA [2] Mucosal Immunology Section,
Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-0485, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Center for Immunology, University of Minnesota
Medical School, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(5)1] The Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine of the Skirball Institute, New
York University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

T-helper-17 (TH17) cells have critical roles in mucosal defence and in autoimmune
disease pathogenesis. They are most abundant in the small intestine lamina
propria, where their presence requires colonization of mice with microbiota.
Segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) are sufficient to induce TH17 cells and to
promote TH17-dependent autoimmune disease in animal models. However, the
specificity of TH17 cells, the mechanism of their induction by distinct bacteria,
and the means by which they foster tissue-specific inflammation remain unknown.
Here we show that the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) repertoire of intestinal TH17
cells in SFB-colonized mice has minimal overlap with that of other intestinal
CD4(+) T cells and that most TH17 cells, but not other T cells, recognize
antigens encoded by SFB. T cells with antigen receptors specific for SFB-encoded 
peptides differentiated into RORγt-expressing TH17 cells, even if SFB-colonized
mice also harboured a strong TH1 cell inducer, Listeria monocytogenes, in their
intestine. The match of T-cell effector function with antigen specificity is thus
determined by the type of bacteria that produce the antigen. These findings have 
significant implications for understanding how commensal microbiota contribute to
organ-specific autoimmunity and for developing novel mucosal vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13279 
PMCID: PMC4128479
PMID: 24739972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):143-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13162. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Coordination of entorhinal-hippocampal ensemble activity during associative
learning.

Igarashi KM(1), Lu L(1), Colgin LL(2), Moser MB(1), Moser EI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for Neural Computation,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Olav Kyrres gate 9, MTFS, 7491
Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Center for Learning and Memory, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin,
Texas 78712-0805, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Jul 7;24(13):R620-1.

Accumulating evidence points to cortical oscillations as a mechanism for
mediating interactions among functionally specialized neurons in distributed
brain circuits. A brain function that may use such interactions is declarative
memory--that is, memory that can be consciously recalled, such as episodes and
facts. Declarative memory is enabled by circuits in the entorhinal cortex that
interface the hippocampus with the neocortex. During encoding and retrieval of
declarative memories, entorhinal and hippocampal circuits are thought to interact
via theta and gamma oscillations, which in awake rodents predominate frequency
spectra in both regions. In favour of this idea, theta-gamma coupling has been
observed between entorhinal cortex and hippocampus under steady-state conditions 
in well-trained rats; however, the relationship between interregional coupling
and memory formation remains poorly understood. Here we show, by multisite
recording at successive stages of associative learning, that the coherence of
firing patterns in directly connected entorhinal-hippocampus circuits evolves as 
rats learn to use an odour cue to guide navigational behaviour, and that such
coherence is invariably linked to the development of ensemble representations for
unique trial outcomes in each area. Entorhinal-hippocampal coupling was observed 
specifically in the 20-40-hertz frequency band and specifically between the
distal part of hippocampal area CA1 and the lateral part of entorhinal cortex,
the subfields that receive the predominant olfactory input to the hippocampal
region. Collectively, the results identify 20-40-hertz oscillations as a
mechanism for synchronizing evolving representations in dispersed neural circuits
during encoding and retrieval of olfactory-spatial associative memory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13162 
PMID: 24739966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):604-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13262.

Storm-induced sea-ice breakup and the implications for ice extent.

Kohout AL(1), Williams MJ(2), Dean SM(2), Meylan MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Christchurch 8011, New
Zealand.
(2)National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, Wellington 6021, New
Zealand.
(3)The University of Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales 2308, Australia.

The propagation of large, storm-generated waves through sea ice has so far not
been measured, limiting our understanding of how ocean waves break sea ice.
Without improved knowledge of ice breakup, we are unable to understand recent
changes, or predict future changes, in Arctic and Antarctic sea ice. Here we show
that storm-generated ocean waves propagating through Antarctic sea ice are able
to transport enough energy to break sea ice hundreds of kilometres from the ice
edge. Our results, which are based on concurrent observations at multiple
locations, establish that large waves break sea ice much farther from the ice
edge than would be predicted by the commonly assumed exponential decay. We
observed the wave height decay to be almost linear for large waves--those with a 
significant wave height greater than three metres--and to be exponential only for
small waves. This implies a more prominent role for large ocean waves in sea-ice 
breakup and retreat than previously thought. We examine the wider relevance of
this by comparing observed Antarctic sea-ice edge positions with changes in
modelled significant wave heights for the Southern Ocean between 1997 and 2009,
and find that the retreat and expansion of the sea-ice edge correlate with mean
significant wave height increases and decreases, respectively. This includes
capturing the spatial variability in sea-ice trends found in the Ross and
Amundsen-Bellingshausen seas. Climate models fail to capture recent changes in
sea ice in both polar regions. Our results suggest that the incorporation of
explicit or parameterized interactions between ocean waves and sea ice may
resolve this problem.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13262 
PMID: 24870546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):596-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13388.

Direct high-precision measurement of the magnetic moment of the proton.

Mooser A(1), Ulmer S(2), Blaum K(3), Franke K(4), Kracke H(5), Leiteritz C(6),
Quint W(7), Rodegheri CC(8), Smorra C(2), Walz J(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, 55099 Mainz,
Germany [2] Helmholtz-Institut Mainz, 55099 Mainz, Germany [3] RIKEN, Ulmer
Initiative Research Unit, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)RIKEN, Ulmer Initiative Research Unit, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(3)Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)1] RIKEN, Ulmer Initiative Research Unit, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan [2]
Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)1] Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, 55099 Mainz,
Germany [2] Helmholtz-Institut Mainz, 55099 Mainz, Germany.
(6)Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, 55099 Mainz,
Germany.
(7)1] Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, 
69047 Heidelberg, Germany [2] GSI-Helmholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung,
64291 Darmstadt, Germany.
(8)1] Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, 55099 Mainz,
Germany [2] Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):571-2.

One of the fundamental properties of the proton is its magnetic moment, µp. So
far µp has been measured only indirectly, by analysing the spectrum of an atomic 
hydrogen maser in a magnetic field. Here we report the direct high-precision
measurement of the magnetic moment of a single proton using the double
Penning-trap technique. We drive proton-spin quantum jumps by a magnetic
radio-frequency field in a Penning trap with a homogeneous magnetic field. The
induced spin transitions are detected in a second trap with a strong superimposed
magnetic inhomogeneity. This enables the measurement of the spin-flip probability
as a function of the drive frequency. In each measurement the proton's cyclotron 
frequency is used to determine the magnetic field of the trap. From the
normalized resonance curve, we extract the particle's magnetic moment in terms of
the nuclear magneton: μp = 2.792847350(9)μN. This measurement outperforms
previous Penning-trap measurements in terms of precision by a factor of about
760. It improves the precision of the forty-year-old indirect measurement, in
which significant theoretical bound state corrections were required to obtain µp,
by a factor of 3. By application of this method to the antiproton magnetic
moment, the fractional precision of the recently reported value can be improved
by a factor of at least 1,000. Combined with the present result, this will
provide a stringent test of matter/antimatter symmetry with baryons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13388 
PMID: 24870545 


592. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):593-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13254.

Three regimes of extrasolar planet radius inferred from host star metallicities.

Buchhave LA(1), Bizzarro M(2), Latham DW(3), Sasselov D(3), Cochran WD(4), Endl
M(4), Isaacson H(5), Juncher D(6), Marcy GW(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA [2] Centre for Star and Planet Formation, Natural History Museum of
Denmark, University of Copenhagen, DK-1350 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Centre for Star and Planet Formation, Natural History Museum of Denmark,
University of Copenhagen, DK-1350 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.
(4)McDonald Observatory, The University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(5)University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(6)1] Centre for Star and Planet Formation, Natural History Museum of Denmark,
University of Copenhagen, DK-1350 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Niels Bohr Institute,
University of Copenhagen, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.

Approximately half of the extrasolar planets (exoplanets) with radii less than
four Earth radii are in orbits with short periods. Despite their sheer abundance,
the compositions of such planets are largely unknown. The available evidence
suggests that they range in composition from small, high-density rocky planets to
low-density planets consisting of rocky cores surrounded by thick hydrogen and
helium gas envelopes. Here we report the metallicities (that is, the abundances
of elements heavier than hydrogen and helium) of more than 400 stars hosting 600 
exoplanet candidates, and find that the exoplanets can be categorized into three 
populations defined by statistically distinct (∼4.5σ) metallicity regions. We
interpret these regions as reflecting the formation regimes of terrestrial-like
planets (radii less than 1.7 Earth radii), gas dwarf planets with rocky cores and
hydrogen-helium envelopes (radii between 1.7 and 3.9 Earth radii) and ice or gas 
giant planets (radii greater than 3.9 Earth radii). These transitions correspond 
well with those inferred from dynamical mass estimates, implying that host star
metallicity, which is a proxy for the initial solids inventory of the
protoplanetary disk, is a key ingredient regulating the structure of planetary
systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13254 
PMCID: PMC4048851
PMID: 24870544 


593. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):582-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13319.

Mass-spectrometry-based draft of the human proteome.

Wilhelm M(1), Schlegl J(2), Hahne H(3), Gholami AM(3), Lieberenz M(4), Savitski
MM(5), Ziegler E(4), Butzmann L(4), Gessulat S(4), Marx H(6), Mathieson T(5),
Lemeer S(6), Schnatbaum K(7), Reimer U(7), Wenschuh H(7), Mollenhauer M(8),
Slotta-Huspenina J(8), Boese JH(4), Bantscheff M(5), Gerstmair A(4), Faerber
F(4), Kuster B(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Chair of Proteomics and Bioanalytics, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany [2] SAP AG, Dietmar-Hopp-Allee
16, 69190 Walldorf, Germany [3].
(2)1] SAP AG, Dietmar-Hopp-Allee 16, 69190 Walldorf, Germany [2].
(3)1] Chair of Proteomics and Bioanalytics, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany [2].
(4)SAP AG, Dietmar-Hopp-Allee 16, 69190 Walldorf, Germany.
(5)Cellzome GmbH, Meyerhofstraße 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Chair of Proteomics and Bioanalytics, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany.
(7)JPT Peptide Technologies GmbH, Volmerstraße 5, 12489 Berlin, Germany.
(8)Institute of Pathology, Technische Universität München, Trogerstraße 18, 81675
München, Germany.
(9)1] Chair of Proteomics and Bioanalytics, Technische Universität München,
Emil-Erlenmeyer Forum 5, 85354 Freising, Germany [2] Center for Integrated
Protein Science Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    J Proteome Res. 2014 Aug 1;13(8):3854-5.
    J Proteome Res. 2015 Feb 6;14(2):1330-2.
    Nat Methods. 2014 Jul;11(7):709.

Proteomes are characterized by large protein-abundance differences, cell-type-
and time-dependent expression patterns and post-translational modifications, all 
of which carry biological information that is not accessible by genomics or
transcriptomics. Here we present a mass-spectrometry-based draft of the human
proteome and a public, high-performance, in-memory database for real-time
analysis of terabytes of big data, called ProteomicsDB. The information assembled
from human tissues, cell lines and body fluids enabled estimation of the size of 
the protein-coding genome, and identified organ-specific proteins and a large
number of translated lincRNAs (long intergenic non-coding RNAs). Analysis of
messenger RNA and protein-expression profiles of human tissues revealed conserved
control of protein abundance, and integration of drug-sensitivity data enabled
the identification of proteins predicting resistance or sensitivity. The proteome
profiles also hold considerable promise for analysing the composition and
stoichiometry of protein complexes. ProteomicsDB thus enables navigation of
proteomes, provides biological insight and fosters the development of proteomic
technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13319 
PMID: 24870543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):575-81. doi: 10.1038/nature13302.

A draft map of the human proteome.

Kim MS(1), Pinto SM(2), Getnet D(3), Nirujogi RS(2), Manda SS(2), Chaerkady R(1),
Madugundu AK(2), Kelkar DS(2), Isserlin R(4), Jain S(4), Thomas JK(2), Muthusamy 
B(2), Leal-Rojas P(5), Kumar P(2), Sahasrabuddhe NA(2), Balakrishnan L(2), Advani
J(2), George B(2), Renuse S(2), Selvan LD(2), Patil AH(2), Nanjappa V(2),
Radhakrishnan A(2), Prasad S(6), Subbannayya T(2), Raju R(2), Kumar M(2),
Sreenivasamurthy SK(2), Marimuthu A(2), Sathe GJ(2), Chavan S(2), Datta KK(2),
Subbannayya Y(2), Sahu A(2), Yelamanchi SD(2), Jayaram S(2), Rajagopalan P(2),
Sharma J(2), Murthy KR(2), Syed N(2), Goel R(2), Khan AA(2), Ahmad S(2), Dey
G(2), Mudgal K(7), Chatterjee A(2), Huang TC(6), Zhong J(6), Wu X(1), Shaw PG(6),
Freed D(6), Zahari MS(8), Mukherjee KK(9), Shankar S(10), Mahadevan A(11), Lam
H(12), Mitchell CJ(6), Shankar SK(11), Satishchandra P(13), Schroeder JT(14),
Sirdeshmukh R(2), Maitra A(15), Leach SD(16), Drake CG(17), Halushka MK(18),
Prasad TS(2), Hruban RH(15), Kerr CL(19), Bader GD(4), Iacobuzio-Donahue CA(20), 
Gowda H(2), Pandey A(21).

Author information: 
(1)1] McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Biological
Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA.
(2)Institute of Bioinformatics, International Tech Park, Bangalore 560066, India.
(3)1] McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Adrienne Helis Malvin
Medical Research Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130, USA.
(4)The Donnelly Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3E1, Canada.
(5)1] McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Pathology,
Universidad de La Frontera, Center of Genetic and Immunological
Studies-Scientific and Technological Bioresource Nucleus, Temuco 4811230, Chile.
(6)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(7)School of Medicine, Imperial College London, South Kensington Campus, London
SW7 2AZ, UK.
(8)Department of Biological Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education &
Research, Chandigarh 160012, India.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine Armed Forces Medical College, Pune 411040,
India.
(11)1] Department of Neuropathology, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bangalore 560029, India [2] Human Brain Tissue Repository,
Neurobiology Research Centre, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bangalore 560029, India.
(12)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and Division of
Biomedical Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear
Water Bay, Hong Kong.
(13)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health and
Neurosciences, Bangalore 560029, India.
(14)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA.
(15)1] The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Department of
Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21231, USA [2] Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.
(16)1] McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Surgery,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.
(17)1] Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA [2] Departments of Immunology and Urology, Sidney 
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.
(18)The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Department of Pathology,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.
(19)1] Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Johns Hopkins University School
of Medicine Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21201, USA.
(20)1] The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Department of
Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21231, USA [2] Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA [3] Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.
(21)1] McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Biological
Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA [3] Institute of Bioinformatics, International Tech Park, Bangalore
560066, India [4] Adrienne Helis Malvin Medical Research Foundation, New Orleans,
Louisiana 70130, USA [5] The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center,
Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21231, USA [6] Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA [7] Diana Helis Henry Medical
Research Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130, USA.

Comment in
    J Proteome Res. 2014 Aug 1;13(8):3854-5.
    J Proteome Res. 2015 Feb 6;14(2):1330-2.
    Nat Methods. 2014 Jul;11(7):709.
    Expert Rev Proteomics. 2015 ;12 (6):579-93.

The availability of human genome sequence has transformed biomedical research
over the past decade. However, an equivalent map for the human proteome with
direct measurements of proteins and peptides does not exist yet. Here we present 
a draft map of the human proteome using high-resolution Fourier-transform mass
spectrometry. In-depth proteomic profiling of 30 histologically normal human
samples, including 17 adult tissues, 7 fetal tissues and 6 purified primary
haematopoietic cells, resulted in identification of proteins encoded by 17,294
genes accounting for approximately 84% of the total annotated protein-coding
genes in humans. A unique and comprehensive strategy for proteogenomic analysis
enabled us to discover a number of novel protein-coding regions, which includes
translated pseudogenes, non-coding RNAs and upstream open reading frames. This
large human proteome catalogue (available as an interactive web-based resource at
http://www.humanproteomemap.org) will complement available human genome and
transcriptome data to accelerate biomedical research in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13302 
PMCID: PMC4403737
PMID: 24870542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):600-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13376. Epub 2014 May 21.

Contribution of semi-arid ecosystems to interannual variability of the global
carbon cycle.

Poulter B(1), Frank D(2), Ciais P(3), Myneni RB(4), Andela N(5), Bi J(4), Broquet
G(3), Canadell JG(6), Chevallier F(3), Liu YY(7), Running SW(8), Sitch S(9), van 
der Werf GR(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Montana State University, Institute on Ecosystems and the Department of
Ecology, Bozeman, Montana 59717, USA [2] Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de
l'Environnement (LSCE), CEA CNRS UVSQ, 91191 Gif Sur Yvette, France.
(2)1] Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL, Dendroclimatology, Zürcherstrasse
111, Birmensdorf 8903, Switzerland [2] Oeschger Centre for Climate Change
Research, University of Bern, CH-3012 Bern, Switzerland.
(3)Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l'Environnement (LSCE), CEA CNRS
UVSQ, 91191 Gif Sur Yvette, France.
(4)Department of Earth and Environment, Boston University, 685 Commonwealth
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(5)Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University Amsterdam, 1085 De
Boelelaan, 1081HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Global Carbon Project, CSIRO, Marine and Atmospheric Research, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory 2601, Australia.
(7)ARC Centre of Excellence for Climate Systems Science & Climate Change Research
Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia.
(8)Department of Ecosystem and Conservation Sciences, University of Montana,
Missoula, Montana 59812, USA.
(9)College of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics, University of Exeter,
Exeter EX4 4QF, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):566-7.

The land and ocean act as a sink for fossil-fuel emissions, thereby slowing the
rise of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations. Although the uptake of carbon 
by oceanic and terrestrial processes has kept pace with accelerating carbon
dioxide emissions until now, atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations exhibit a 
large variability on interannual timescales, considered to be driven primarily by
terrestrial ecosystem processes dominated by tropical rainforests. We use a
terrestrial biogeochemical model, atmospheric carbon dioxide inversion and global
carbon budget accounting methods to investigate the evolution of the terrestrial 
carbon sink over the past 30 years, with a focus on the underlying mechanisms
responsible for the exceptionally large land carbon sink reported in 2011 (ref.
2). Here we show that our three terrestrial carbon sink estimates are in good
agreement and support the finding of a 2011 record land carbon sink.
Surprisingly, we find that the global carbon sink anomaly was driven by growth of
semi-arid vegetation in the Southern Hemisphere, with almost 60 per cent of
carbon uptake attributed to Australian ecosystems, where prevalent La Niña
conditions caused up to six consecutive seasons of increased precipitation. In
addition, since 1981, a six per cent expansion of vegetation cover over Australia
was associated with a fourfold increase in the sensitivity of continental net
carbon uptake to precipitation. Our findings suggest that the higher turnover
rates of carbon pools in semi-arid biomes are an increasingly important driver of
global carbon cycle inter-annual variability and that tropical rainforests may
become less relevant drivers in the future. More research is needed to identify
to what extent the carbon stocks accumulated during wet years are vulnerable to
rapid decomposition or loss through fire in subsequent years.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13376 
PMID: 24847888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):612-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13377. Epub 2014 May 21.

Bacterial phylogeny structures soil resistomes across habitats.

Forsberg KJ(1), Patel S(2), Gibson MK(3), Lauber CL(4), Knight R(5), Fierer N(6),
Dantas G(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [2].
(2)1] Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [2] Department of Pathology and
Immunology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110,
USA [3].
(3)Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(4)Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(5)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry and BioFrontiers Institute,
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(6)1] Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [2] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(7)1] Center for Genome Sciences and Systems Biology, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [2] Department of Pathology and
Immunology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110,
USA [3] Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University, St Louis,
Missouri 63130, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):567-8.

Ancient and diverse antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) have previously been
identified from soil, including genes identical to those in human pathogens.
Despite the apparent overlap between soil and clinical resistomes, factors
influencing ARG composition in soil and their movement between genomes and
habitats remain largely unknown. General metagenome functions often correlate
with the underlying structure of bacterial communities. However, ARGs are
proposed to be highly mobile, prompting speculation that resistomes may not
correlate with phylogenetic signatures or ecological divisions. To investigate
these relationships, we performed functional metagenomic selections for
resistance to 18 antibiotics from 18 agricultural and grassland soils. The 2,895 
ARGs we discovered were mostly new, and represent all major resistance
mechanisms. We demonstrate that distinct soil types harbour distinct resistomes, 
and that the addition of nitrogen fertilizer strongly influenced soil ARG
content. Resistome composition also correlated with microbial phylogenetic and
taxonomic structure, both across and within soil types. Consistent with this
strong correlation, mobility elements (genes responsible for horizontal gene
transfer between bacteria such as transposases and integrases) syntenic with ARGs
were rare in soil by comparison with sequenced pathogens, suggesting that ARGs
may not transfer between soil bacteria as readily as is observed between human
pathogens. Together, our results indicate that bacterial community composition is
the primary determinant of soil ARG content, challenging previous hypotheses that
horizontal gene transfer effectively decouples resistomes from phylogeny.


PMCID: PMC4079543
PMID: 24847883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):633-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13315. Epub 2014 May 14.

A single female-specific piRNA is the primary determiner of sex in the silkworm.

Kiuchi T(1), Koga H(2), Kawamoto M(2), Shoji K(2), Sakai H(3), Arai Y(1),
Ishihara G(1), Kawaoka S(1), Sugano S(4), Shimada T(1), Suzuki Y(4), Suzuki
MG(3), Katsuma S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural and Environmental Biology, Graduate School of
Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.
(2)1] Department of Agricultural and Environmental Biology, Graduate School of
Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-8657, Japan [2].
(3)Department of Integrated Biosciences, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences,
The University of Tokyo, 5-1-5 Kashiwanoha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8562, Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Genome Sciences, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences,
The University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

Comment in
    Genome Biol. 2014;15(6):118.
    Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):570-1.

The silkworm Bombyx mori uses a WZ sex determination system that is analogous to 
the one found in birds and some reptiles. In this system, males have two Z sex
chromosomes, whereas females have Z and W sex chromosomes. The silkworm W
chromosome has a dominant role in female determination, suggesting the existence 
of a dominant feminizing gene in this chromosome. However, the W chromosome is
almost fully occupied by transposable element sequences, and no functional
protein-coding gene has been identified so far. Female-enriched PIWI-interacting 
RNAs (piRNAs) are the only known transcripts that are produced from the
sex-determining region of the W chromosome, but the function(s) of these piRNAs
are unknown. Here we show that a W-chromosome-derived, female-specific piRNA is
the feminizing factor of B. mori. This piRNA is produced from a piRNA precursor
which we named Fem. Fem sequences were arranged in tandem in the sex-determining 
region of the W chromosome. Inhibition of Fem-derived piRNA-mediated signalling
in female embryos led to the production of the male-specific splice variants of
B. mori doublesex (Bmdsx), a gene which acts at the downstream end of the sex
differentiation cascade. A target gene of Fem-derived piRNA was identified on the
Z chromosome of B. mori. This gene, which we named Masc, encoded a CCCH-type zinc
finger protein. We show that the silencing of Masc messenger RNA by Fem piRNA is 
required for the production of female-specific isoforms of Bmdsx in female
embryos, and that Masc protein controls both dosage compensation and
masculinization in male embryos. Our study characterizes a single small RNA that 
is responsible for primary sex determination in the WZ sex determination system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13315 
PMID: 24828047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):588-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13271. Epub 2014 May 14.

Structural basis of the non-coding RNA RsmZ acting as a protein sponge.

Duss O(1), Michel E(1), Yulikov M(2), Schubert M(1), Jeschke G(2), Allain FH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, ETH Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich,
Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory of Physical Chemistry, ETH Zürich, CH-8093 Zürich, Switzerland.

MicroRNA and protein sequestration by non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) has recently
generated much interest. In the bacterial Csr/Rsm system, which is considered to 
be the most general global post-transcriptional regulatory system responsible for
bacterial virulence, ncRNAs such as CsrB or RsmZ activate translation initiation 
by sequestering homodimeric CsrA-type proteins from the ribosome-binding site of 
a subset of messenger RNAs. However, the mechanism of ncRNA-mediated protein
sequestration is not understood at the molecular level. Here we show for
Pseudomonas fluorescens that RsmE protein dimers assemble sequentially,
specifically and cooperatively onto the ncRNA RsmZ within a narrow affinity
range. This assembly yields two different native ribonucleoprotein structures.
Using a powerful combination of nuclear magnetic resonance and electron
paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy we elucidate these 70-kilodalton solution
structures, thereby revealing the molecular mechanism of the sequestration
process and how RsmE binding protects the ncRNA from RNase E degradation.
Overall, our findings suggest that RsmZ is well-tuned to sequester, store and
release RsmE and therefore can be viewed as an ideal protein 'sponge'.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13271 
PMID: 24828038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):637-40. doi: 10.1038/nature13300. Epub 2014 May 4.

Clonal selection in the germinal centre by regulated proliferation and
hypermutation.

Gitlin AD(1), Shulman Z(1), Nussenzweig MC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, The Rockefeller University, New York, New 
York 10065, USA.
(2)1] Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, The Rockefeller University, New York,
New York 10065, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Rockefeller
University, New York, New York 10065, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):573-4.

During immune responses, B lymphocytes clonally expand and undergo secondary
diversification of their immunoglobulin genes in germinal centres (GCs).
High-affinity B cells are expanded through iterative interzonal cycles of
division and hypermutation in the GC dark zone followed by migration to the GC
light zone, where they are selected on the basis of affinity to return to the
dark zone. Here we combine a transgenic strategy to measure cell division and a
photoactivatable fluorescent reporter to examine whether the extent of clonal
expansion and hypermutation are regulated during interzonal GC cycles. We find
that both cell division and hypermutation are directly proportional to the amount
of antigen captured and presented by GC B cells to follicular helper T cells in
the light zone. Our data explain how GC B cells with the highest affinity for
antigen are selectively expanded and diversified.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13300 
PMCID: PMC4271732
PMID: 24805232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):641-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13232. Epub 2014 Apr 20.

Dichloroacetate prevents restenosis in preclinical animal models of vessel
injury.

Deuse T(1), Hua X(2), Wang D(2), Maegdefessel L(3), Heeren J(4), Scheja L(4),
Bolaños JP(5), Rakovic A(6), Spin JM(7), Stubbendorff M(2), Ikeno F(7), Länger
F(8), Zeller T(9), Schulte-Uentrop L(10), Stoehr A(11), Itagaki R(2), Haddad
F(7), Eschenhagen T(11), Blankenberg S(9), Kiefmann R(10), Reichenspurner H(12), 
Velden J(13), Klein C(6), Yeung A(7), Robbins RC(14), Tsao PS(15), Schrepfer
S(16).

Author information: 
(1)1] TSI-laboratory, University Heart Center Hamburg, Martinistraße 52, 20246
Hamburg, Germany [2] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK
(German Center for Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck,
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg,
Germany [3] Cardiovascular Surgery, University Heart Center Hamburg,
Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(2)1] TSI-laboratory, University Heart Center Hamburg, Martinistraße 52, 20246
Hamburg, Germany [2] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK
(German Center for Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck,
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg,
Germany.
(3)Department of Medicine, Atherosclerosis Research Unit, Karolinska Institute,
CMM L8:03, 17176 Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Cell Biology, University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Institute of Functional Biology and Genomics, University of Salamanca-CSIC,
Zacarias Gonzalez 2, 37007 Salamanca, Spain.
(6)Institute of Neurogenetics, University of Lübeck, Maria-Goeppert-Straße 1,
23562 Lübeck, Germany.
(7)Cardiovascular Medicine and Stanford Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford
University, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(8)Institute of Pathology, Hannover Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625 
Hannover, Germany.
(9)1] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK (German Center for
Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck, University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany [2] Department
of General and Interventional Cardiology, University Heart Center Hamburg,
Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(10)1] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK (German Center for 
Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck, University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany [2] Department
of Anaesthesiology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße
52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(11)1] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK (German Center for 
Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck, University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany [2] Institute 
of Experimental Pharmacology and Toxicology, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
(12)1] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK (German Center for 
Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck, University Medical
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany [2]
Cardiovascular Surgery, University Heart Center Hamburg, Martinistraße 52, 20246 
Hamburg, Germany.
(13)Department of Nephropathology, Institute of Pathology, University Hospital
Erlangen, Krankenhausstraße 8-10, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(14)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery and Stanford Cardiovascular Institute,
Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(15)1] Cardiovascular Medicine and Stanford Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford
University, 300 Pasteur Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Veterans
Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, 3801 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, California 
94304, USA.
(16)1] TSI-laboratory, University Heart Center Hamburg, Martinistraße 52, 20246
Hamburg, Germany [2] Cardiovascular Research Center Hamburg (CVRC) and DZHK
(German Center for Cardiovascular Research), partner site Hamburg/Kiel/Luebeck,
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg,
Germany [3] Cardiovascular Surgery, University Heart Center Hamburg,
Martinistraße 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany [4] Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery
and Stanford Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford University, 300 Pasteur Drive,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Despite the introduction of antiproliferative drug-eluting stents, coronary heart
disease remains the leading cause of death in the United States. In-stent
restenosis and bypass graft failure are characterized by excessive smooth muscle 
cell (SMC) proliferation and concomitant myointima formation with luminal
obliteration. Here we show that during the development of myointimal hyperplasia 
in human arteries, SMCs show hyperpolarization of their mitochondrial membrane
potential (ΔΨm) and acquire a temporary state with a high proliferative rate and 
resistance to apoptosis. Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase isoform 2 (PDK2) was
identified as a key regulatory protein, and its activation proved necessary for
relevant myointima formation. Pharmacologic PDK2 blockade with dichloroacetate or
lentiviral PDK2 knockdown prevented ΔΨm hyperpolarization, facilitated apoptosis 
and reduced myointima formation in injured human mammary and coronary arteries,
rat aortas, rabbit iliac arteries and swine (pig) coronary arteries. In contrast 
to several commonly used antiproliferative drugs, dichloroacetate did not prevent
vessel re-endothelialization. Targeting myointimal ΔΨm and alleviating apoptosis 
resistance is a novel strategy for the prevention of proliferative vascular
diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13232 
PMCID: PMC4323184
PMID: 24747400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):627-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13169. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Scalable control of mounting and attack by Esr1+ neurons in the ventromedial
hypothalamus.

Lee H(1), Kim DW(2), Remedios R(3), Anthony TE(3), Chang A(3), Madisen L(4), Zeng
H(4), Anderson DJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Biology and Biological Engineering 156-29, California Institute
of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(2)Computation and Neural Systems, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, 
California 91125, USA.
(3)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering 156-29, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(4)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA.
(5)1] Division of Biology and Biological Engineering 156-29, California Institute
of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [3] Computation and Neural Systems,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Social behaviours, such as aggression or mating, proceed through a series of
appetitive and consummatory phases that are associated with increasing levels of 
arousal. How such escalation is encoded in the brain, and linked to behavioural
action selection, remains an unsolved problem in neuroscience. The ventrolateral 
subdivision of the murine ventromedial hypothalamus (VMHvl) contains neurons
whose activity increases during male-male and male-female social encounters.
Non-cell-type-specific optogenetic activation of this region elicited attack
behaviour, but not mounting. We have identified a subset of VMHvl neurons marked 
by the oestrogen receptor 1 (Esr1), and investigated their role in male social
behaviour. Optogenetic manipulations indicated that Esr1(+) (but not Esr1(-))
neurons are sufficient to initiate attack, and that their activity is
continuously required during ongoing agonistic behaviour. Surprisingly, weaker
optogenetic activation of these neurons promoted mounting behaviour, rather than 
attack, towards both males and females, as well as sniffing and close
investigation. Increasing photostimulation intensity could promote a transition
from close investigation and mounting to attack, within a single social
encounter. Importantly, time-resolved optogenetic inhibition experiments revealed
requirements for Esr1(+) neurons in both the appetitive (investigative) and the
consummatory phases of social interactions. Combined optogenetic activation and
calcium imaging experiments in vitro, as well as c-Fos analysis in vivo,
indicated that increasing photostimulation intensity increases both the number of
active neurons and the average level of activity per neuron. These data suggest
that Esr1(+) neurons in VMHvl control the progression of a social encounter from 
its appetitive through its consummatory phases, in a scalable manner that
reflects the number or type of active neurons in the population.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13169 
PMCID: PMC4098836
PMID: 24739975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):608-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13195. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

A Palaeozoic shark with osteichthyan-like branchial arches.

Pradel A(1), Maisey JG(1), Tafforeau P(2), Mapes RH(3), Mallatt J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vertebrate Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History,
Central Park West at 79th Street, New York, New York 10024, USA.
(2)European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, BP 220, 6 rue Jules Horowitz, 38043
Grenoble Cedex, France.
(3)Department of Geological Sciences, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio 45701, USA.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, Washington State University, Pullman,
Washington 99164-4236, USA.

The evolution of serially arranged, jointed endoskeletal supports internal to the
gills--the visceral branchial arches--represents one of the key events in early
jawed vertebrate (gnathostome) history, because it provided the morphological
basis for the subsequent evolution of jaws. However, until now little was known
about visceral arches in early gnathostomes, and theories about gill arch
evolution were driven by information gleaned mostly from both modern
cartilaginous (chondrichthyan) and bony (osteichthyan) fishes. New fossil
discoveries can profoundly affect our understanding of evolutionary history, by
revealing hitherto unseen combinations of primitive and derived characters. Here 
we describe a 325 million year (Myr)-old Palaeozoic shark-like fossil that
represents, to our knowledge, the earliest identified chondrichthyan in which the
complete gill skeleton is three-dimensionally preserved in its natural position. 
Its visceral arch arrangement is remarkably osteichthyan-like, suggesting that
this may represent the common ancestral condition for crown gnathostomes. Our
findings thus reinterpret the polarity of some arch features of the crown jawed
vertebrates and invert the classic hypothesis, in which modern sharks retain the 
ancestral condition. This study underscores the importance of early
chondrichthyans in resolving the evolutionary history of jawed vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13195 
PMID: 24739974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):622-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13251. Epub 2014 Apr 6.

Piezo2 is required for Merkel-cell mechanotransduction.

Woo SH(1), Ranade S(1), Weyer AD(2), Dubin AE(1), Baba Y(3), Qiu Z(4), Petrus
M(5), Miyamoto T(6), Reddy K(5), Lumpkin EA(3), Stucky CL(2), Patapoutian A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(2)Departments of Cell Biology, Neurobiology, and Anatomy, Medical College of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53226, USA.
(3)Departments of Dermatology & Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(4)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Genomics
Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego, California 92121, USA.
(5)Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego, California 
92121, USA.
(6)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Gladstone
Institute of Neurological Disease, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Jun;15(6):348-9.

How we sense touch remains fundamentally unknown. The Merkel cell-neurite complex
is a gentle touch receptor in the skin that mediates slowly adapting responses of
Aβ sensory fibres to encode fine details of objects. This mechanoreceptor complex
was recognized to have an essential role in sensing gentle touch nearly 50 years 
ago. However, whether Merkel cells or afferent fibres themselves sense mechanical
force is still debated, and the molecular mechanism of mechanotransduction is
unknown. Synapse-like junctions are observed between Merkel cells and associated 
afferents, and yet it is unclear whether Merkel cells are inherently
mechanosensitive or whether they can rapidly transmit such information to the
neighbouring nerve. Here we show that Merkel cells produce touch-sensitive
currents in vitro. Piezo2, a mechanically activated cation channel, is expressed 
in Merkel cells. We engineered mice deficient in Piezo2 in the skin, but not in
sensory neurons, and show that Merkel-cell mechanosensitivity completely depends 
on Piezo2. In these mice, slowly adapting responses in vivo mediated by the
Merkel cell-neurite complex show reduced static firing rates, and moreover, the
mice display moderately decreased behavioural responses to gentle touch. Our
results indicate that Piezo2 is the Merkel-cell mechanotransduction channel and
provide the first line of evidence that Piezo channels have a physiological role 
in mechanosensation in mammals. Furthermore, our data present evidence for a
two-receptor-site model, in which both Merkel cells and innervating afferents act
together as mechanosensors. The two-receptor system could provide this
mechanoreceptor complex with a tuning mechanism to achieve highly sophisticated
responses to a given mechanical stimulus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13251 
PMCID: PMC4039622
PMID: 24717433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Nature. 2014 May 29;509(7502):617-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13250. Epub 2014 Apr 6.

Epidermal Merkel cells are mechanosensory cells that tune mammalian touch
receptors.

Maksimovic S(1), Nakatani M(2), Baba Y(1), Nelson AM(3), Marshall KL(4), Wellnitz
SA(5), Firozi P(5), Woo SH(6), Ranade S(6), Patapoutian A(6), Lumpkin EA(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA [2] Graduate School of System Design and Management, Keio University,
Yokohama 223-8526, Japan [3].
(3)1] Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77006, USA.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77006, 
USA.
(6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla California 92037, USA.
(7)1] Department of Dermatology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA [2] Department of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA [3] Program in Neurobiology & Behavior, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Jun;15(6):348-9.

Touch submodalities, such as flutter and pressure, are mediated by somatosensory 
afferents whose terminal specializations extract tactile features and encode them
as action potential trains with unique activity patterns. Whether non-neuronal
cells tune touch receptors through active or passive mechanisms is debated.
Terminal specializations are thought to function as passive mechanical filters
analogous to the cochlea's basilar membrane, which deconstructs complex sounds
into tones that are transduced by mechanosensory hair cells. The model that
cutaneous specializations are merely passive has been recently challenged because
epidermal cells express sensory ion channels and neurotransmitters; however,
direct evidence that epidermal cells excite tactile afferents is lacking.
Epidermal Merkel cells display features of sensory receptor cells and make
'synapse-like' contacts with slowly adapting type I (SAI) afferents. These
complexes, which encode spatial features such as edges and texture, localize to
skin regions with high tactile acuity, including whisker follicles, fingertips
and touch domes. Here we show that Merkel cells actively participate in touch
reception in mice. Merkel cells display fast, touch-evoked mechanotransduction
currents. Optogenetic approaches in intact skin show that Merkel cells are both
necessary and sufficient for sustained action-potential firing in tactile
afferents. Recordings from touch-dome afferents lacking Merkel cells demonstrate 
that Merkel cells confer high-frequency responses to dynamic stimuli and enable
sustained firing. These data are the first, to our knowledge, to directly
demonstrate a functional, excitatory connection between epidermal cells and
sensory neurons. Together, these findings indicate that Merkel cells actively
tune mechanosensory responses to facilitate high spatio-temporal acuity.
Moreover, our results indicate a division of labour in the Merkel cell-neurite
complex: Merkel cells signal static stimuli, such as pressure, whereas sensory
afferents transduce dynamic stimuli, such as moving gratings. Thus, the Merkel
cell-neurite complex is an unique sensory structure composed of two different
receptor cell types specialized for distinct elements of discriminative touch.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13250 
PMCID: PMC4097312
PMID: 24717432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):475-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13303.

Practical quantum key distribution protocol without monitoring signal
disturbance.

Sasaki T(1), Yamamoto Y(2), Koashi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Photon Science Center, Graduate School of Engineering, The University of
Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan.
(2)1] E. L. Ginzton Laboratory, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, 
USA [2] National Institute of Informatics, Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
101-8430, Japan.

Quantum cryptography exploits the fundamental laws of quantum mechanics to
provide a secure way to exchange private information. Such an exchange requires a
common random bit sequence, called a key, to be shared secretly between the
sender and the receiver. The basic idea behind quantum key distribution (QKD) has
widely been understood as the property that any attempt to distinguish encoded
quantum states causes a disturbance in the signal. As a result, implementation of
a QKD protocol involves an estimation of the experimental parameters influenced
by the eavesdropper's intervention, which is achieved by randomly sampling the
signal. If the estimation of many parameters with high precision is required, the
portion of the signal that is sacrificed increases, thus decreasing the
efficiency of the protocol. Here we propose a QKD protocol based on an entirely
different principle. The sender encodes a bit sequence onto non-orthogonal
quantum states and the receiver randomly dictates how a single bit should be
calculated from the sequence. The eavesdropper, who is unable to learn the whole 
of the sequence, cannot guess the bit value correctly. An achievable rate of
secure key distribution is calculated by considering complementary choices
between quantum measurements of two conjugate observables. We found that a
practical implementation using a laser pulse train achieves a key rate comparable
to a decoy-state QKD protocol, an often-used technique for lasers. It also has a 
better tolerance of bit errors and of finite-sized-key effects. We anticipate
that this finding will give new insight into how the probabilistic nature of
quantum mechanics can be related to secure communication, and will facilitate the
simple and efficient use of conventional lasers for QKD.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13303 
PMID: 24848060 


606. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):471-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13304.

A Wolf-Rayet-like progenitor of SN 2013cu from spectral observations of a stellar
wind.

Gal-Yam A(1), Arcavi I(1), Ofek EO(1), Ben-Ami S(1), Cenko SB(2), Kasliwal MM(3),
Cao Y(4), Yaron O(1), Tal D(1), Silverman JM(5), Horesh A(4), De Cia A(1), Taddia
F(6), Sollerman J(6), Perley D(4), Vreeswijk PM(1), Kulkarni SR(4), Nugent PE(7),
Filippenko AV(8), Wheeler JC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Particle Physics and Astrophysics, Weizmann Institute of
Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel.
(2)Astrophysics Science Division, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Mail Code
661, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(3)Observatories of the Carnegie Institution for Science, 813 Santa Barbara
Street, Pasadena, California 91101, USA.
(4)Cahill Center for Astrophysics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, 
California 91125, USA.
(5)Department of Astronomy, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(6)The Oskar Klein Centre, Department of Astronomy, Stockholm University,
AlbaNova, 10691 Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Physics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 
94720, USA.
(8)Department of Astronomy, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720-3411, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):431-2.

The explosive fate of massive Wolf-Rayet stars (WRSs) is a key open question in
stellar physics. An appealing option is that hydrogen-deficient WRSs are the
progenitors of some hydrogen-poor supernova explosions of types IIb, Ib and Ic
(ref. 2). A blue object, having luminosity and colours consistent with those of
some WRSs, has recently been identified in pre-explosion images at the location
of a supernova of type Ib (ref. 3), but has not yet been conclusively determined 
to have been the progenitor. Similar work has so far only resulted in
non-detections. Comparison of early photometric observations of type Ic
supernovae with theoretical models suggests that the progenitor stars had radii
of less than 10(12) centimetres, as expected for some WRSs. The signature of
WRSs, their emission line spectra, cannot be probed by such studies. Here we
report the detection of strong emission lines in a spectrum of type IIb supernova
2013cu (iPTF13ast) obtained approximately 15.5 hours after explosion (by 'flash
spectroscopy', which captures the effects of the supernova explosion shock
breakout flash on material surrounding the progenitor star). We identify
Wolf-Rayet-like wind signatures, suggesting a progenitor of the WN(h) subclass
(those WRSs with winds dominated by helium and nitrogen, with traces of
hydrogen). The extent of this dense wind may indicate increased mass loss from
the progenitor shortly before its explosion, consistent with recent theoretical
predictions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13304 
PMID: 24848059 


607. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):459-64. doi: 10.1038/nature13257.

Contrasting forms of cocaine-evoked plasticity control components of relapse.

Pascoli V(1), Terrier J(1), Espallergues J(2), Valjent E(2), O'Connor EC(3),
Lüscher C(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2].
(2)1] INSERM, U661, Montpellier F-34094, France [2] CNRS, UMR-5203, Institut de
Génomique Fonctionnelle, Montpellier F-34094, France [3] Universités de
Montpellier 1 & 2, UMR-5203, Montpellier F-34094, France.
(3)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)1] Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] Clinic of Neurology, Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, Geneva University Hospital, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Nucleus accumbens neurons serve to integrate information from cortical and limbic
regions to direct behaviour. Addictive drugs are proposed to hijack this system, 
enabling drug-associated cues to trigger relapse to drug seeking. However, the
connections affected and proof of causality remain to be established. Here we use
a mouse model of delayed cue-associated cocaine seeking with ex vivo
electrophysiology in optogenetically delineated circuits. We find that seeking
correlates with rectifying AMPA (α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic
acid) receptor transmission and a reduced AMPA/NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) ratio 
at medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) to nucleus accumbens shell D1-receptor
medium-sized spiny neurons (D1R-MSNs). In contrast, the AMPA/NMDA ratio increases
at ventral hippocampus to D1R-MSNs. Optogenetic reversal of cocaine-evoked
plasticity at both inputs abolishes seeking, whereas selective reversal at mPFC
or ventral hippocampus synapses impairs response discrimination or reduces
response vigour during seeking, respectively. Taken together, we describe how
information integration in the nucleus accumbens is commandeered by cocaine at
discrete synapses to allow relapse. Our approach holds promise for identifying
synaptic causalities in other behavioural disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13257 
PMID: 24848058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):439-46. doi: 10.1038/nature13193.

The role of senescent cells in ageing.

van Deursen JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine and Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota
55905, USA.

Cellular senescence has historically been viewed as an irreversible cell-cycle
arrest mechanism that acts to protect against cancer, but recent discoveries have
extended its known role to complex biological processes such as development,
tissue repair, ageing and age-related disorders. New insights indicate that,
unlike a static endpoint, senescence represents a series of progressive and
phenotypically diverse cellular states acquired after the initial growth arrest. 
A deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the multi-step
progression of senescence and the development and function of acute versus
chronic senescent cells may lead to new therapeutic strategies for age-related
pathologies and extend healthy lifespan.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13193 
PMCID: PMC4214092
PMID: 24848057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):483-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13275. Epub 2014 May 14.

Uplift and seismicity driven by groundwater depletion in central California.

Amos CB(1), Audet P(2), Hammond WC(3), Bürgmann R(4), Johanson IA(5), Blewitt
G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Geology Department, Western Washington University, Bellingham, Washington
98225-9080, USA.
(2)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5,
Canada.
(3)Nevada Geodetic Laboratory, Nevada Bureau of Mines and Geology and Nevada
Seismological Laboratory, University of Nevada, Reno, Nevada 89557, USA.
(4)1] Berkeley Seismological Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-4760, USA [2] Department of Earth and Planetary Science,
University of California, Berkeley, California 97720-4767, USA.
(5)Berkeley Seismological Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-4760, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):436-7.

Groundwater use in California's San Joaquin Valley exceeds replenishment of the
aquifer, leading to substantial diminution of this resource and rapid subsidence 
of the valley floor. The volume of groundwater lost over the past century and a
half also represents a substantial reduction in mass and a large-scale
unburdening of the lithosphere, with significant but unexplored potential impacts
on crustal deformation and seismicity. Here we use vertical global positioning
system measurements to show that a broad zone of rock uplift of up to 1-3 mm per 
year surrounds the southern San Joaquin Valley. The observed uplift matches well 
with predicted flexure from a simple elastic model of current rates of
water-storage loss, most of which is caused by groundwater depletion. The height 
of the adjacent central Coast Ranges and the Sierra Nevada is strongly seasonal
and peaks during the dry late summer and autumn, out of phase with uplift of the 
valley floor during wetter months. Our results suggest that long-term and
late-summer flexural uplift of the Coast Ranges reduce the effective normal
stress resolved on the San Andreas Fault. This process brings the fault closer to
failure, thereby providing a viable mechanism for observed seasonality in
microseismicity at Parkfield and potentially affecting long-term seismicity rates
for fault systems adjacent to the valley. We also infer that the observed
contemporary uplift of the southern Sierra Nevada previously attributed to
tectonic or mantle-derived forces is partly a consequence of human-caused
groundwater depletion.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13275 
PMID: 24828048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):503-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13241. Epub 2014 May 14.

Mfsd2a is a transporter for the essential omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic
acid.

Nguyen LN(1), Ma D(2), Shui G(3), Wong P(2), Cazenave-Gassiot A(3), Zhang X(2),
Wenk MR(3), Goh EL(2), Silver DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Signature Research Program in Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disorders, Duke-NUS
Graduate Medical School Singapore, 8 College Road, 169857 Singapore.
(2)Signature Research Program in Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders, Duke-NUS 
Graduate Medical School Singapore, 8 College Road, 169857 Singapore.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, National University of Singapore, 8 Medical Drive,
Block MD7, 117597 Singapore.

Comment in
    Neuron. 2014 May 21;82(4):728-30.
    Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):432-3.

Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an omega-3 fatty acid that is essential for normal 
brain growth and cognitive function. Consistent with its importance in the brain,
DHA is highly enriched in brain phospholipids. Despite being an abundant fatty
acid in brain phospholipids, DHA cannot be de novo synthesized in brain and must 
be imported across the blood-brain barrier, but mechanisms for DHA uptake in
brain have remained enigmatic. Here we identify a member of the major facilitator
superfamily--Mfsd2a (previously an orphan transporter)--as the major transporter 
for DHA uptake into brain. Mfsd2a is found to be expressed exclusively in
endothelium of the blood-brain barrier of micro-vessels. Lipidomic analysis
indicates that Mfsd2a-deficient (Mfsd2a-knockout) mice show markedly reduced
levels of DHA in brain accompanied by neuronal cell loss in hippocampus and
cerebellum, as well as cognitive deficits and severe anxiety, and microcephaly.
Unexpectedly, cell-based studies indicate that Mfsd2a transports DHA in the form 
of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), but not unesterified fatty acid, in a
sodium-dependent manner. Notably, Mfsd2a transports common plasma LPCs carrying
long-chain fatty acids such LPC oleate and LPC palmitate, but not LPCs with less 
than a 14-carbon acyl chain. Moreover, we determine that the
phosphor-zwitterionic headgroup of LPC is critical for transport. Importantly,
Mfsd2a-knockout mice have markedly reduced uptake of labelled LPC DHA, and other 
LPCs, from plasma into brain, demonstrating that Mfsd2a is required for brain
uptake of DHA. Our findings reveal an unexpected essential physiological role of 
plasma-derived LPCs in brain growth and function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13241 
PMID: 24828044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):465-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13317. Epub 2014 May 14.

Cell competition is a tumour suppressor mechanism in the thymus.

Martins VC(1), Busch K(2), Juraeva D(3), Blum C(4), Ludwig C(4), Rasche V(5),
Lasitschka F(6), Mastitsky SE(3), Brors B(3), Hielscher T(7), Fehling HJ(4),
Rodewald HR(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Cellular Immunology, German Cancer Research Center, D-69120
Heidelberg, Germany [2] Institute of Immunology, University of Ulm, D-89081 Ulm, 
Germany.
(2)Division of Cellular Immunology, German Cancer Research Center, D-69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Division of Theoretical Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center, D-69120
Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Institute of Immunology, University of Ulm, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.
(5)Core Facility Small Animal MRI, University of Ulm, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.
(6)Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld
224, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(7)Division of Biostatistics, German Cancer Research Center, D-69120 Heidelberg, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Mol Ther. 2014 Sep;22(9):1562-3.
    Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):435-6.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Jun;14(6):381.

Cell competition is an emerging principle underlying selection for cellular
fitness during development and disease. Competition may be relevant for cancer,
but an experimental link between defects in competition and tumorigenesis is
elusive. In the thymus, T lymphocytes develop from precursors that are constantly
replaced by bone-marrow-derived progenitors. Here we show that in mice this
turnover is regulated by natural cell competition between 'young'
bone-marrow-derived and 'old' thymus-resident progenitors that, although
genetically identical, execute differential gene expression programs. Disruption 
of cell competition leads to progenitor self-renewal, upregulation of Hmga1,
transformation, and T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL) resembling the
human disease in pathology, genomic lesions, leukaemia-associated transcripts,
and activating mutations in Notch1. Hence, cell competition is a tumour
suppressor mechanism in the thymus. Failure to select fit progenitors through
cell competition may explain leukaemia in X-linked severe combined immune
deficiency patients who showed thymus-autonomous T-cell development after therapy
with gene-corrected autologous progenitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13317 
PMID: 24828041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):507-11. doi: 10.1038/nature13324. Epub 2014 May 14.

Mfsd2a is critical for the formation and function of the blood-brain barrier.

Ben-Zvi A(1), Lacoste B(1), Kur E(1), Andreone BJ(1), Mayshar Y(2), Yan H(1), Gu 
C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, 220 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 220 Longwood Avenue, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Neuron. 2014 May 21;82(4):728-30.
    Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):432-3.

The central nervous system (CNS) requires a tightly controlled environment free
of toxins and pathogens to provide the proper chemical composition for neural
function. This environment is maintained by the 'blood-brain barrier' (BBB),
which is composed of blood vessels whose endothelial cells display specialized
tight junctions and extremely low rates of transcellular vesicular transport
(transcytosis). In concert with pericytes and astrocytes, this unique brain
endothelial physiological barrier seals the CNS and controls substance influx and
efflux. Although BBB breakdown has recently been associated with initiation and
perpetuation of various neurological disorders, an intact BBB is a major obstacle
for drug delivery to the CNS. A limited understanding of the molecular mechanisms
that control BBB formation has hindered our ability to manipulate the BBB in
disease and therapy. Here we identify mechanisms governing the establishment of a
functional BBB. First, using a novel tracer-injection method for embryos, we
demonstrate spatiotemporal developmental profiles of BBB functionality and find
that the mouse BBB becomes functional at embryonic day 15.5 (E15.5). We then
screen for BBB-specific genes expressed during BBB formation, and find that major
facilitator super family domain containing 2a (Mfsd2a) is selectively expressed
in BBB-containing blood vessels in the CNS. Genetic ablation of Mfsd2a results in
a leaky BBB from embryonic stages through to adulthood, but the normal patterning
of vascular networks is maintained. Electron microscopy examination reveals a
dramatic increase in CNS-endothelial-cell vesicular transcytosis in Mfsd2a(-/-)
mice, without obvious tight-junction defects. Finally we show that Mfsd2a
endothelial expression is regulated by pericytes to facilitate BBB integrity.
These findings identify Mfsd2a as a key regulator of BBB function that may act by
suppressing transcytosis in CNS endothelial cells. Furthermore, our findings may 
aid in efforts to develop therapeutic approaches for CNS drug delivery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13324 
PMCID: PMC4134871
PMID: 24828040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):453-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13258. Epub 2014 May 11.

Amygdala interneuron subtypes control fear learning through disinhibition.

Wolff SB(1), Gründemann J(2), Tovote P(3), Krabbe S(3), Jacobson GA(3), Müller
C(3), Herry C(4), Ehrlich I(5), Friedrich RW(3), Letzkus JJ(6), Lüthi A(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] University of Basel, 4000 Basel, Switzerland [3].
(2)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2].
(3)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.
(4)INSERM U862, Neurocentre Magendie, 146 rue Leo Saignat, 33077 Bordeaux,
France.
(5)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(6)1] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Maulbeerstrasse 66,
CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland [2] Max-Planck Institute for Brain Research, 60438
Frankfurt, Germany. [3].

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Aug 4;24(15):R690-3.

Learning is mediated by experience-dependent plasticity in neuronal circuits.
Activity in neuronal circuits is tightly regulated by different subtypes of
inhibitory interneurons, yet their role in learning is poorly understood. Using a
combination of in vivo single-unit recordings and optogenetic manipulations, we
show that in the mouse basolateral amygdala, interneurons expressing parvalbumin 
(PV) and somatostatin (SOM) bidirectionally control the acquisition of fear
conditioning--a simple form of associative learning--through two distinct
disinhibitory mechanisms. During an auditory cue, PV(+) interneurons are excited 
and indirectly disinhibit the dendrites of basolateral amygdala principal neurons
via SOM(+) interneurons, thereby enhancing auditory responses and promoting
cue-shock associations. During an aversive footshock, however, both PV(+) and
SOM(+) interneurons are inhibited, which boosts postsynaptic footshock responses 
and gates learning. These results demonstrate that associative learning is
dynamically regulated by the stimulus-specific activation of distinct
disinhibitory microcircuits through precise interactions between different
subtypes of local interneurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13258 
PMID: 24814341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):479-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13259. Epub 2014 May 7.

Future increases in Arctic precipitation linked to local evaporation and sea-ice 
retreat.

Bintanja R(1), Selten FM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI), Utrechtseweg 297, 3731GA,
De Bilt, The Netherlands.

Precipitation changes projected for the end of the twenty-first century show an
increase of more than 50 per cent in the Arctic regions. This marked increase,
which is among the highest globally, has previously been attributed primarily to 
enhanced poleward moisture transport from lower latitudes. Here we use
state-of-the-art global climate models to show that the projected increases in
Arctic precipitation over the twenty-first century, which peak in late autumn and
winter, are instead due mainly to strongly intensified local surface evaporation 
(maximum in winter), and only to a lesser degree due to enhanced moisture inflow 
from lower latitudes (maximum in late summer and autumn). Moreover, we show that 
the enhanced surface evaporation results mainly from retreating winter sea ice,
signalling an amplified Arctic hydrological cycle. This demonstrates that
increases in Arctic precipitation are firmly linked to Arctic warming and sea-ice
decline. As a result, the Arctic mean precipitation sensitivity (4.5 per cent
increase per degree of temperature warming) is much larger than the global value 
(1.6 to 1.9 per cent per kelvin). The associated seasonally varying increase in
Arctic precipitation is likely to increase river discharge and snowfall over ice 
sheets (thereby affecting global sea level), and could even affect global climate
through freshening of the Arctic Ocean and subsequent modulations of the Atlantic
meridional overturning circulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13259 
PMID: 24805239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):447-52. doi: 10.1038/nature13318. Epub 2014 May 7.

Genome-defence small RNAs exapted for epigenetic mating-type inheritance.

Singh DP(1), Saudemont B(2), Guglielmi G(3), Arnaiz O(4), Goût JF(5), Prajer
M(6), Potekhin A(7), Przybòs E(6), Aubusson-Fleury A(4), Bhullar S(3), Bouhouche 
K(8), Lhuillier-Akakpo M(9), Tanty V(3), Blugeon C(3), Alberti A(10), Labadie
K(10), Aury JM(10), Sperling L(4), Duharcourt S(11), Meyer E(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, IBENS; Inserm,
U1024; CNRS, UMR 8197 Paris F-75005, France [2] Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ.,
IFD, 4 place Jussieu, 75252 Paris cedex 05, France.
(2)1] Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, IBENS; Inserm,
U1024; CNRS, UMR 8197 Paris F-75005, France [2] Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ.,
IFD, 4 place Jussieu, 75252 Paris cedex 05, France [3] Laboratoire de Biochimie, 
Unité Mixte de Recherche 8231, École Supérieure de Physique et de Chimie
Industrielles, 75231 Paris, France (B.S.); Department of Biology, Indiana
University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA (J.-F.G.); INRA, UMR 1061 Unité de
Génétique Moléculaire Animale, Université de Limoges, IFR 145, Faculté des
Sciences et Techniques, 87060 Limoges, France (K.B.).
(3)Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, IBENS; Inserm, U1024;
CNRS, UMR 8197 Paris F-75005, France.
(4)CNRS UPR3404 Centre de Génétique Moléculaire, Gif-sur-Yvette F-91198, and
Université Paris-Sud, Département de Biologie, Orsay F-91405, France.
(5)1] CNRS UMR5558, Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, Université de
Lyon, 43 boulevard du 11 Novembre 1918, Villeurbanne F-69622, France [2]
Laboratoire de Biochimie, Unité Mixte de Recherche 8231, École Supérieure de
Physique et de Chimie Industrielles, 75231 Paris, France (B.S.); Department of
Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA (J.-F.G.); INRA, UMR
1061 Unité de Génétique Moléculaire Animale, Université de Limoges, IFR 145,
Faculté des Sciences et Techniques, 87060 Limoges, France (K.B.).
(6)Institute of Systematics and Evolution of Animals, Polish Academy of Sciences,
Sławkowska 17, 31-016 Krakow, Poland.
(7)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Biology, St Petersburg State
University, Saint Petersburg 199034, Russia.
(8)1] Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, IBENS; Inserm,
U1024; CNRS, UMR 8197 Paris F-75005, France [2] Laboratoire de Biochimie, Unité
Mixte de Recherche 8231, École Supérieure de Physique et de Chimie Industrielles,
75231 Paris, France (B.S.); Department of Biology, Indiana University,
Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA (J.-F.G.); INRA, UMR 1061 Unité de Génétique
Moléculaire Animale, Université de Limoges, IFR 145, Faculté des Sciences et
Techniques, 87060 Limoges, France (K.B.).
(9)1] Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ., IFD, 4 place Jussieu, 75252 Paris cedex
05, France [2] Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS, UMR 7592, Université Paris Diderot, 
Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris F-75205, France.
(10)Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique (CEA), Institut de Génomique (IG),
Genoscope, 2 rue Gaston Crémieux, BP5706, 91057 Evry, France.
(11)Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS, UMR 7592, Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne
Paris Cité, Paris F-75205, France.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Jul 7;24(13):R617-9.
    Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):430-1.

In the ciliate Paramecium, transposable elements and their single-copy remnants
are deleted during the development of somatic macronuclei from germline
micronuclei, at each sexual generation. Deletions are targeted by scnRNAs, small 
RNAs produced from the germ line during meiosis that first scan the maternal
macronuclear genome to identify missing sequences, and then allow the zygotic
macronucleus to reproduce the same deletions. Here we show that this process
accounts for the maternal inheritance of mating types in Paramecium tetraurelia, 
a long-standing problem in epigenetics. Mating type E depends on expression of
the transmembrane protein mtA, and the default type O is determined during
development by scnRNA-dependent excision of the mtA promoter. In the sibling
species Paramecium septaurelia, mating type O is determined by coding-sequence
deletions in a different gene, mtB, which is specifically required for mtA
expression. These independently evolved mechanisms suggest frequent exaptation of
the scnRNA pathway to regulate cellular genes and mediate transgenerational
epigenetic inheritance of essential phenotypic polymorphisms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13318 
PMID: 24805235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):512-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13205. Epub 2014 Apr 20.

Structure of the AcrAB-TolC multidrug efflux pump.

Du D(1), Wang Z(2), James NR(1), Voss JE(1), Klimont E(1), Ohene-Agyei T(3),
Venter H(4), Chiu W(2), Luisi BF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road,
Cambridge CB2 1GA, UK.
(2)National Center for Macromolecular Imaging, Verna and Marrs McLean Department 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1PD, UK.
(4)School of Pharmacy & Medical Sciences, Sansom Institute for Health Research,
University of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia 5000, Australia.

The capacity of numerous bacterial species to tolerate antibiotics and other
toxic compounds arises in part from the activity of energy-dependent
transporters. In Gram-negative bacteria, many of these transporters form
multicomponent 'pumps' that span both inner and outer membranes and are driven
energetically by a primary or secondary transporter component. A model system for
such a pump is the acridine resistance complex of Escherichia coli. This pump
assembly comprises the outer-membrane channel TolC, the secondary transporter
AcrB located in the inner membrane, and the periplasmic AcrA, which bridges these
two integral membrane proteins. The AcrAB-TolC efflux pump is able to transport
vectorially a diverse array of compounds with little chemical similarity, thus
conferring resistance to a broad spectrum of antibiotics. Homologous complexes
are found in many Gram-negative species, including in animal and plant pathogens.
Crystal structures are available for the individual components of the pump and
have provided insights into substrate recognition, energy coupling and the
transduction of conformational changes associated with the transport process.
However, how the subunits are organized in the pump, their stoichiometry and the 
details of their interactions are not known. Here we present the pseudo-atomic
structure of a complete multidrug efflux pump in complex with a modulatory
protein partner from E. coli. The model defines the quaternary organization of
the pump, identifies key domain interactions, and suggests a cooperative process 
for channel assembly and opening. These findings illuminate the basis for drug
resistance in numerous pathogenic bacterial species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13205 
PMCID: PMC4361902
PMID: 24747401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):516-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13167. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Structural basis of Sec-independent membrane protein insertion by YidC.

Kumazaki K(1), Chiba S(2), Takemoto M(3), Furukawa A(4), Nishiyama K(5), Sugano
Y(4), Mori T(6), Dohmae N(7), Hirata K(8), Nakada-Nakura Y(9), Maturana AD(10),
Tanaka Y(4), Mori H(11), Sugita Y(6), Arisaka F(12), Ito K(13), Ishitani R(3),
Tsukazaki T(14), Nureki O(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan [2] Global
Research Cluster, RIKEN, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan [3].
(2)1] Faculty of Life Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo University, Motoyama, Kamigamo,
Kita-ku, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan [2].
(3)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan [2] Global
Research Cluster, RIKEN, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(4)Department of Systems Biology, Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara
Institute of Science and Technology, 8916-5 Takayama-cho, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192,
Japan.
(5)Cryobiofrontier Research Center, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University,
3-18-8 Ueda, Morioka, Iwate 020-8550, Japan.
(6)Theoretical Molecular Science Laboratory, RIKEN, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi,
Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(7)Global Research Cluster, RIKEN, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198,
Japan.
(8)SR Life Science Instrumentation Unit, RIKEN SPring-8 Center, 1-1-1 Kouto,
Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan.
(9)Department of Cell Biology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University,
Yoshidakonoe-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.
(10)Department of Bioengineering Sciences, Graduate School of Bioagricultural
Sciences, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya 464-8601, Japan.
(11)Institute for Virus Research, Kyoto University, Shogoin Kawara-cho, Sakyo-ku,
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(12)Graduate School of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Tokyo Institute of
Technology, Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 226-8503, Japan.
(13)Faculty of Life Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo University, Motoyama, Kamigamo,
Kita-ku, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan.
(14)1] Department of Systems Biology, Graduate School of Biological Sciences,
Nara Institute of Science and Technology, 8916-5 Takayama-cho, Ikoma, Nara
630-0192, Japan [2] JST, PRESTO, 4-1-8 Honcho, Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012,
Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Struct Mol Biol. 2014 May;21(5):435-6.

Newly synthesized membrane proteins must be accurately inserted into the
membrane, folded and assembled for proper functioning. The protein YidC inserts
its substrates into the membrane, thereby facilitating membrane protein assembly 
in bacteria; the homologous proteins Oxa1 and Alb3 have the same function in
mitochondria and chloroplasts, respectively. In the bacterial cytoplasmic
membrane, YidC functions as an independent insertase and a membrane chaperone in 
cooperation with the translocon SecYEG. Here we present the crystal structure of 
YidC from Bacillus halodurans, at 2.4 Å resolution. The structure reveals a novel
fold, in which five conserved transmembrane helices form a positively charged
hydrophilic groove that is open towards both the lipid bilayer and the cytoplasm 
but closed on the extracellular side. Structure-based in vivo analyses reveal
that a conserved arginine residue in the groove is important for the insertion of
membrane proteins by YidC. We propose an insertion mechanism for single-spanning 
membrane proteins, in which the hydrophilic environment generated by the groove
recruits the extracellular regions of substrates into the low-dielectric
environment of the membrane.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13167 
PMID: 24739968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):497-502. doi: 10.1038/nature13150. Epub 2014 Apr 6.

Protective mucosal immunity mediated by epithelial CD1d and IL-10.

Olszak T(1), Neves JF(1), Dowds CM(2), Baker K(3), Glickman J(4), Davidson NO(5),
Lin CS(6), Jobin C(7), Brand S(8), Sotlar K(9), Wada K(10), Katayama K(10),
Nakajima A(11), Mizuguchi H(12), Kawasaki K(13), Nagata K(13), Müller W(14),
Snapper SB(15), Schreiber S(16), Kaser A(17), Zeissig S(18), Blumberg RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Endoscopy, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Internal Medicine I, University Medical Center
Schleswig-Holstein, 24105 Kiel, Germany [2].
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Endoscopy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)GI Pathology, Miraca Life Sciences, Newton, Massachusetts 02464, USA.
(5)Division of Gastroenterology, Washington University School of Medicine, St
Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(6)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia University, New York, New
York 10032, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Department of Infectious Diseases & Pathology,
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine II-Grosshadern, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich
81377, Germany.
(9)Institute of Pathology, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich 80337, Germany.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Dentistry, Osaka University,
Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(11)Gastroenterology Division, Yokohama City University School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Kanagawa 236-0027, Japan.
(12)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Osaka University, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(13)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo
University, Motoyama, Kamigamo, Kita-ku, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan.
(14)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(15)1] Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Endoscopy, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2]
Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of 
Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Medical Center
Schleswig-Holstein, 24105 Kiel, Germany.
(17)Division of Gastroenterology, Addenbrooke Hospital, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(18)1] Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Endoscopy, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2]
Department of Internal Medicine I, University Medical Center Schleswig-Holstein, 
24105 Kiel, Germany [3].

The mechanisms by which mucosal homeostasis is maintained are of central
importance to inflammatory bowel disease. Critical to these processes is the
intestinal epithelial cell (IEC), which regulates immune responses at the
interface between the commensal microbiota and the host. CD1d presents self and
microbial lipid antigens to natural killer T (NKT) cells, which are involved in
the pathogenesis of colitis in animal models and human inflammatory bowel
disease. As CD1d crosslinking on model IECs results in the production of the
important regulatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10 (ref. 9), decreased epithelial 
CD1d expression--as observed in inflammatory bowel disease--may contribute
substantially to intestinal inflammation. Here we show in mice that whereas
bone-marrow-derived CD1d signals contribute to NKT-cell-mediated intestinal
inflammation, engagement of epithelial CD1d elicits protective effects through
the activation of STAT3 and STAT3-dependent transcription of IL-10, heat shock
protein 110 (HSP110; also known as HSP105), and CD1d itself. All of these
epithelial elements are critically involved in controlling CD1d-mediated
intestinal inflammation. This is demonstrated by severe NKT-cell-mediated colitis
upon IEC-specific deletion of IL-10, CD1d, and its critical regulator microsomal 
triglyceride transfer protein (MTP), as well as deletion of HSP110 in the
radioresistant compartment. Our studies thus uncover a novel pathway of
IEC-dependent regulation of mucosal homeostasis and highlight a critical role of 
IL-10 in the intestinal epithelium, with broad implications for diseases such as 
inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13150 
PMCID: PMC4132962
PMID: 24717441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):492-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13180. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Copper is required for oncogenic BRAF signalling and tumorigenesis.

Brady DC(1), Crowe MS(1), Turski ML(1), Hobbs GA(2), Yao X(3), Chaikuad A(4),
Knapp S(4), Xiao K(3), Campbell SL(2), Thiele DJ(1), Counter CM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina
27710, USA.
(4)Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Target Discovery Institute and
Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7DQ, UK.
(5)1] Department of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA [2] Department of Radiation Oncology,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2014 Sep;27(5):689-91.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Jun;14(6):384-5.

The BRAF kinase is mutated, typically Val 600→Glu (V600E), to induce an active
oncogenic state in a large fraction of melanomas, thyroid cancers, hairy cell
leukaemias and, to a smaller extent, a wide spectrum of other cancers.
BRAF(V600E) phosphorylates and activates the MEK1 and MEK2 kinases, which in turn
phosphorylate and activate the ERK1 and ERK2 kinases, stimulating the
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway to promote cancer. Targeting
MEK1/2 is proving to be an important therapeutic strategy, given that a MEK1/2
inhibitor provides a survival advantage in metastatic melanoma, an effect that is
increased when administered together with a BRAF(V600E) inhibitor. We previously 
found that copper (Cu) influx enhances MEK1 phosphorylation of ERK1/2 through a
Cu-MEK1 interaction. Here we show decreasing the levels of CTR1 (Cu transporter
1), or mutations in MEK1 that disrupt Cu binding, decreased BRAF(V600E)-driven
signalling and tumorigenesis in mice and human cell settings. Conversely, a
MEK1-MEK5 chimaera that phosphorylated ERK1/2 independently of Cu or an active
ERK2 restored the tumour growth of murine cells lacking Ctr1. Cu chelators used
in the treatment of Wilson disease decreased tumour growth of human or murine
cells transformed by BRAF(V600E) or engineered to be resistant to BRAF
inhibition. Taken together, these results suggest that Cu-chelation therapy could
be repurposed to treat cancers containing the BRAF(V600E) mutation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13180 
PMCID: PMC4138975
PMID: 24717435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nature. 2014 May 22;509(7501):487-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13166. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

High-throughput screening of a CRISPR/Cas9 library for functional genomics in
human cells.

Zhou Y(1), Zhu S(1), Cai C(1), Yuan P(2), Li C(3), Huang Y(3), Wei W(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene Research, College of Life
Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2].
(2)State Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene Research, College of Life
Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(3)Biodynamic Optical Imaging Centre (BIOPIC), College of Engineering, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, China.

Comment in
    Sci China Life Sci. 2014 Jul;57(7):733-4.

Targeted genome editing technologies are powerful tools for studying biology and 
disease, and have a broad range of research applications. In contrast to the
rapid development of toolkits to manipulate individual genes, large-scale
screening methods based on the complete loss of gene expression are only now
beginning to be developed. Here we report the development of a focused
CRISPR/Cas-based (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic
repeats/CRISPR-associated) lentiviral library in human cells and a method of gene
identification based on functional screening and high-throughput sequencing
analysis. Using knockout library screens, we successfully identified the host
genes essential for the intoxication of cells by anthrax and diphtheria toxins,
which were confirmed by functional validation. The broad application of this
powerful genetic screening strategy will not only facilitate the rapid
identification of genes important for bacterial toxicity but will also enable the
discovery of genes that participate in other biological processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13166 
PMID: 24717434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):349-52. doi: 10.1038/nature13278.

The poleward migration of the location of tropical cyclone maximum intensity.

Kossin JP(1), Emanuel KA(2), Vecchi GA(3).

Author information: 
(1)NOAA National Climatic Data Center, University of Wisconsin/CIMSS, 1225 West
Dayton Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(2)Program in Atmospheres, Oceans, and Climate, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(3)NOAA Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):290-1.

Temporally inconsistent and potentially unreliable global historical data hinder 
the detection of trends in tropical cyclone activity. This limits our confidence 
in evaluating proposed linkages between observed trends in tropical cyclones and 
in the environment. Here we mitigate this difficulty by focusing on a metric that
is comparatively insensitive to past data uncertainty, and identify a pronounced 
poleward migration in the average latitude at which tropical cyclones have
achieved their lifetime-maximum intensity over the past 30 years. The poleward
trends are evident in the global historical data in both the Northern and the
Southern hemispheres, with rates of 53 and 62 kilometres per decade,
respectively, and are statistically significant. When considered together, the
trends in each hemisphere depict a global-average migration of tropical cyclone
activity away from the tropics at a rate of about one degree of latitude per
decade, which lies within the range of estimates of the observed expansion of the
tropics over the same period. The global migration remains evident and
statistically significant under a formal data homogenization procedure, and is
unlikely to be a data artefact. The migration away from the tropics is apparently
linked to marked changes in the mean meridional structure of environmental
vertical wind shear and potential intensity, and can plausibly be linked to
tropical expansion, which is thought to have anthropogenic contributions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13278 
PMID: 24828193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):342-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13246.

Cepheid variables in the flared outer disk of our galaxy.

Feast MW(1), Menzies JW(2), Matsunaga N(3), Whitelock PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Astrophysics, Cosmology and Gravity Centre, Astronomy Department,
University of Cape Town, Rondebosch 7701, South Africa [2] South African
Astronomical Observatory, PO Box 9, Observatory 7935, South Africa.
(2)South African Astronomical Observatory, PO Box 9, Observatory 7935, South
Africa.
(3)Department of Astronomy, School of Science, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.

Flaring and warping of the disk of the Milky Way have been inferred from
observations of atomic hydrogen but stars associated with flaring have not
hitherto been reported. In the area beyond the Galactic centre the stars are
largely hidden from view by dust, and the kinematic distances of the gas cannot
be estimated. Thirty-two possible Cepheid stars (young pulsating variable stars) 
in the direction of the Galactic bulge were recently identified. With their
well-calibrated period-luminosity relationships, Cepheid stars are useful
distance indicators. When observations of these stars are made in two colours, so
that their distance and reddening can be determined simultaneously, the problems 
of dust obscuration are minimized. Here we report that five of the candidates are
classical Cepheid stars. These five stars are distributed from approximately one 
to two kiloparsecs above and below the plane of the Galaxy, at radial distances
of about 13 to 22 kiloparsecs from the centre. The presence of these relatively
young (less than 130 million years old) stars so far from the Galactic plane is
puzzling, unless they are in the flared outer disk. If so, they may be associated
with the outer molecular arm.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13246 
PMID: 24828192 


623. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):325-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13307.

Galanin neurons in the medial preoptic area govern parental behaviour.

Wu Z(1), Autry AE(1), Bergan JF(1), Watabe-Uchida M(2), Dulac CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):294-6.

Mice display robust, stereotyped behaviours towards pups: virgin males typically 
attack pups, whereas virgin females and sexually experienced males and females
display parental care. Here we show that virgin males genetically impaired in
vomeronasal sensing do not attack pups and are parental. Furthermore, we uncover 
a subset of galanin-expressing neurons in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) that
are specifically activated during male and female parenting, and a different
subpopulation that is activated during mating. Genetic ablation of MPOA galanin
neurons results in marked impairment of parental responses in males and females
and affects male mating. Optogenetic activation of these neurons in virgin males 
suppresses inter-male and pup-directed aggression and induces pup grooming. Thus,
MPOA galanin neurons emerge as an essential regulatory node of male and female
parenting behaviour and other social responses. These results provide an entry
point to a circuit-level dissection of parental behaviour and its modulation by
social experience.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13307 
PMCID: PMC4105201
PMID: 24828191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):318-324. doi: 10.1038/nature13273.

Total synthesis and isolation of citrinalin and cyclopiamine congeners.

Mercado-Marin EV(#)(1), Garcia-Reynaga P(#)(1), Romminger S(2), Pimenta EF(2),
Romney DK(3), Lodewyk MW(4), Williams DE(5), Andersen RJ(5), Miller SJ(3),
Tantillo DJ(4), Berlinck RGS(2), Sarpong R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
(2)Instituto de Quimica de Sao Carlos, Universidade de Sao Paulo, CP 780, CEP
13560-970, Sao Carlos, SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Yale University, P. O. Box 208107, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T IZI, Canada.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):293-4.

Many natural products that contain basic nitrogen atoms--for example alkaloids
like morphine and quinine-have the potential to treat a broad range of human
diseases. However, the presence of a nitrogen atom in a target molecule can
complicate its chemical synthesis because of the basicity of nitrogen atoms and
their susceptibility to oxidation. Obtaining such compounds by chemical synthesis
can be further complicated by the presence of multiple nitrogen atoms, but it can
be done by the selective introduction and removal of functional groups that
mitigate basicity. Here we use such a strategy to complete the chemical syntheses
of citrinalin B and cyclopiamine B. The chemical connections that have been
realized as a result of these syntheses, in addition to the isolation of both
17-hydroxycitrinalin B and citrinalin C (which contains a
bicyclo[2.2.2]diazaoctane structural unit) through carbon-13 feeding studies,
support the existence of a common bicyclo[2.2.2]diazaoctane-containing biogenetic
precursor to these compounds, as has been proposed previously.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13273 
PMCID: PMC4117207
PMID: 24828190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):310-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13085.

Nucleotide signalling during inflammation.

Idzko M(1), Ferrari D(2), Eltzschig HK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pneumology, Freiburg University Medical Center,
Albert-Ludwigs-University, 79106 Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine, Section of
Pathology, Oncology and Experimental Biology, University of Ferrara, Ferrara,
44121, Italy.
(3)Organ Protection Program, Department of Anesthesiology, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.

Inflammatory conditions are associated with the extracellular release of
nucleotides, particularly ATP. In the extracellular compartment, ATP
predominantly functions as a signalling molecule through the activation of
purinergic P2 receptors. Metabotropic P2Y receptors are G-protein-coupled,
whereas ionotropic P2X receptors are ATP-gated ion channels. Here we discuss how 
signalling events through P2 receptors alter the outcomes of inflammatory or
infectious diseases. Recent studies implicate a role for P2X/P2Y signalling in
mounting appropriate inflammatory responses critical for host defence against
invading pathogens or tumours. Conversely, P2X/P2Y signalling can promote chronic
inflammation during ischaemia and reperfusion injury, inflammatory bowel disease 
or acute and chronic diseases of the lungs. Although nucleotide signalling has
been used clinically in patients before, research indicates an expanding field of
opportunities for specifically targeting individual P2 receptors for the
treatment of inflammatory or infectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13085 
PMCID: PMC4222675
PMID: 24828189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):299-309. doi: 10.1038/nature13274.

Recent advances in homogeneous nickel catalysis.

Tasker SZ(1), Standley EA(1), Jamison TF(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02139, USA [2].
(2)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):176.

Tremendous advances have been made in nickel catalysis over the past decade.
Several key properties of nickel, such as facile oxidative addition and ready
access to multiple oxidation states, have allowed the development of a broad
range of innovative reactions. In recent years, these properties have been
increasingly understood and used to perform transformations long considered
exceptionally challenging. Here we discuss some of the most recent and
significant developments in homogeneous nickel catalysis, with an emphasis on
both synthetic outcome and mechanism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13274 
PMCID: PMC4344729
PMID: 24828188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):331-336. doi: 10.1038/nature13240. Epub 2014 May 4.

Space-time wiring specificity supports direction selectivity in the retina.

Kim JS(#)(1), Greene MJ(#)(1), Zlateski A(2), Lee K(1), Richardson M(1), Turaga
SC(1), Purcaro M(1), Balkam M(1), Robinson A(1), Behabadi BF(3), Campos M(3),
Denk W(4), Seung HS(1); EyeWirers.

Author information: 
(1)Brain & Cognitive Sciences Department, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
(2)Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
(3)Qualcomm Research, 5775 Morehouse Dr., San Diego, CA 92121, USA.
(4)Max-Planck Institute for Medical Research, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6577-8.

How does the mammalian retina detect motion? This classic problem in visual
neuroscience has remained unsolved for 50 years. In search of clues, here we
reconstruct Off-type starburst amacrine cells (SACs) and bipolar cells (BCs) in
serial electron microscopic images with help from EyeWire, an online community of
'citizen neuroscientists'. On the basis of quantitative analyses of contact area 
and branch depth in the retina, we find evidence that one BC type prefers to wire
with a SAC dendrite near the SAC soma, whereas another BC type prefers to wire
far from the soma. The near type is known to lag the far type in time of visual
response. A mathematical model shows how such 'space-time wiring specificity'
could endow SAC dendrites with receptive fields that are oriented in space-time
and therefore respond selectively to stimuli that move in the outward direction
from the soma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13240 
PMCID: PMC4074887
PMID: 24805243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):337-41. doi: 10.1038/nature13309. Epub 2014 May 7.

c-kit+ cells minimally contribute cardiomyocytes to the heart.

van Berlo JH(1), Kanisicak O(2), Maillet M(3), Vagnozzi RJ(3), Karch J(3), Lin
SC(3), Middleton RC(4), Marbán E(4), Molkentin JD(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2] Department of Medicine, division of Cardiology,
Lillehei Heart Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, 
USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2].
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(4)Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, 8700 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 
90048, USA.
(5)1] Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Cincinnati
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Res. 2014 Aug 1;115(4):415-8.

If and how the heart regenerates after an injury event is highly debated.
c-kit-expressing cardiac progenitor cells have been reported as the primary
source for generation of new myocardium after injury. Here we generated two
genetic approaches in mice to examine whether endogenous c-kit(+) cells
contribute differentiated cardiomyocytes to the heart during development, with
ageing or after injury in adulthood. A complementary DNA encoding either Cre
recombinase or a tamoxifen-inducible MerCreMer chimaeric protein was targeted to 
the Kit locus in mice and then bred with reporter lines to permanently mark cell 
lineage. Endogenous c-kit(+) cells did produce new cardiomyocytes within the
heart, although at a percentage of approximately 0.03 or less, and if a
preponderance towards cellular fusion is considered, the percentage falls to
below approximately 0.008. By contrast, c-kit(+) cells amply generated cardiac
endothelial cells. Thus, endogenous c-kit(+) cells can generate cardiomyocytes
within the heart, although probably at a functionally insignificant level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13309 
PMCID: PMC4127035
PMID: 24805242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):385-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13314. Epub 2014 May 7.

A semi-synthetic organism with an expanded genetic alphabet.

Malyshev DA(1), Dhami K(1), Lavergne T(1), Chen T(1), Dai N(2), Foster JM(2),
Corrêa IR Jr(2), Romesberg FE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(2)New England Biolabs, 240 County Road, Ipswich, Massachusetts 01938, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):291-2.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Jul;15(7):443.

Organisms are defined by the information encoded in their genomes, and since the 
origin of life this information has been encoded using a two-base-pair genetic
alphabet (A-T and G-C). In vitro, the alphabet has been expanded to include
several unnatural base pairs (UBPs). We have developed a class of UBPs formed
between nucleotides bearing hydrophobic nucleobases, exemplified by the pair
formed between d5SICS and dNaM (d5SICS-dNaM), which is efficiently PCR-amplified 
and transcribed in vitro, and whose unique mechanism of replication has been
characterized. However, expansion of an organism's genetic alphabet presents new 
and unprecedented challenges: the unnatural nucleoside triphosphates must be
available inside the cell; endogenous polymerases must be able to use the
unnatural triphosphates to faithfully replicate DNA containing the UBP within the
complex cellular milieu; and finally, the UBP must be stable in the presence of
pathways that maintain the integrity of DNA. Here we show that an exogenously
expressed algal nucleotide triphosphate transporter efficiently imports the
triphosphates of both d5SICS and dNaM (d5SICSTP and dNaMTP) into Escherichia
coli, and that the endogenous replication machinery uses them to accurately
replicate a plasmid containing d5SICS-dNaM. Neither the presence of the unnatural
triphosphates nor the replication of the UBP introduces a notable growth burden. 
Lastly, we find that the UBP is not efficiently excised by DNA repair pathways.
Thus, the resulting bacterium is the first organism to propagate stably an
expanded genetic alphabet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13314 
PMCID: PMC4058825
PMID: 24805238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):345-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13252. Epub 2014 May 7.

Tracking excited-state charge and spin dynamics in iron coordination complexes.

Zhang W(1), Alonso-Mori R(2), Bergmann U(2), Bressler C(3), Chollet M(2), Galler 
A(3), Gawelda W(3), Hadt RG(4), Hartsock RW(5), Kroll T(4), Kjær KS(6), Kubiček
K(7), Lemke HT(2), Liang HW(5), Meyer DA(5), Nielsen MM(8), Purser C(1), Robinson
JS(2), Solomon EI(9), Sun Z(1), Sokaras D(10), van Driel TB(8), Vankó G(11), Weng
TC(10), Zhu D(2), Gaffney KJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)PULSE Institute, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)LCLS, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(3)European XFEL, D-22761 Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(5)1] PULSE Institute, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Department of Chemistry, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(6)1] Centre for Molecular Movies, Niels Bohr Institute, University of
Copenhagen, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Centre for Molecular Movies,
Department of Physics, Technical University of Denmark, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark.
(7)1] Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, 37077 Göttingen, Germany
[2] Deutsches Elektronen Synchrotron, Notkestraße 85, 22607 Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Centre for Molecular Movies, Department of Physics, Technical University of
Denmark, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark.
(9)1] Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA [2] SSRL, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025,
USA.
(10)SSRL, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025,
USA.
(11)Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-1525
Budapest, Hungary.

Crucial to many light-driven processes in transition metal complexes is the
absorption and dissipation of energy by 3d electrons. But a detailed
understanding of such non-equilibrium excited-state dynamics and their interplay 
with structural changes is challenging: a multitude of excited states and
possible transitions result in phenomena too complex to unravel when faced with
the indirect sensitivity of optical spectroscopy to spin dynamics and the flux
limitations of ultrafast X-ray sources. Such a situation exists for archetypal
polypyridyl iron complexes, such as [Fe(2,2'-bipyridine)3](2+), where the
excited-state charge and spin dynamics involved in the transition from a low- to 
a high-spin state (spin crossover) have long been a source of interest and
controversy. Here we demonstrate that femtosecond resolution X-ray fluorescence
spectroscopy, with its sensitivity to spin state, can elucidate the spin
crossover dynamics of [Fe(2,2'-bipyridine)3](2+) on photoinduced metal-to-ligand 
charge transfer excitation. We are able to track the charge and spin dynamics,
and establish the critical role of intermediate spin states in the crossover
mechanism. We anticipate that these capabilities will make our method a valuable 
tool for mapping in unprecedented detail the fundamental electronic excited-state
dynamics that underpin many useful light-triggered molecular phenomena involving 
3d transition metal complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13252 
PMCID: PMC5668134
PMID: 24805234 


631. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):353-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13290. Epub 2014 May 7.

Anthropogenic electromagnetic noise disrupts magnetic compass orientation in a
migratory bird.

Engels S(1), Schneider NL(1), Lefeldt N(2), Hein CM(2), Zapka M(2), Michalik
A(2), Elbers D(2), Kittel A(3), Hore PJ(4), Mouritsen H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut für Biologie und Umweltwissenschaften, Universität Oldenburg,
D-26111 Oldenburg, Germany [2] Research Centre for Neurosensory Sciences,
University of Oldenburg, D-26111 Oldenburg, Germany [3].
(2)1] Institut für Biologie und Umweltwissenschaften, Universität Oldenburg,
D-26111 Oldenburg, Germany [2] Research Centre for Neurosensory Sciences,
University of Oldenburg, D-26111 Oldenburg, Germany.
(3)Institute of Physics, University of Oldenburg, D-26111 Oldenburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, Physical and Theoretical
Chemistry Laboratory, Oxford OX1 3QZ, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):296-7.

Electromagnetic noise is emitted everywhere humans use electronic devices. For
decades, it has been hotly debated whether man-made electric and magnetic fields 
affect biological processes, including human health. So far, no putative effect
of anthropogenic electromagnetic noise at intensities below the guidelines
adopted by the World Health Organization has withstood the test of independent
replication under truly blinded experimental conditions. No effect has therefore 
been widely accepted as scientifically proven. Here we show that migratory birds 
are unable to use their magnetic compass in the presence of urban electromagnetic
noise. When European robins, Erithacus rubecula, were exposed to the background
electromagnetic noise present in unscreened wooden huts at the University of
Oldenburg campus, they could not orient using their magnetic compass. Their
magnetic orientation capabilities reappeared in electrically grounded,
aluminium-screened huts, which attenuated electromagnetic noise in the frequency 
range from 50 kHz to 5 MHz by approximately two orders of magnitude. When the
grounding was removed or when broadband electromagnetic noise was deliberately
generated inside the screened and grounded huts, the birds again lost their
magnetic orientation capabilities. The disruptive effect of radiofrequency
electromagnetic fields is not confined to a narrow frequency band and birds
tested far from sources of electromagnetic noise required no screening to orient 
with their magnetic compass. These fully double-blinded tests document a
reproducible effect of anthropogenic electromagnetic noise on the behaviour of an
intact vertebrate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13290 
PMID: 24805233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):357-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13178. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Dynamics and associations of microbial community types across the human body.

Ding T(1), Schloss PD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 1500 W. Medical Center, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

A primary goal of the Human Microbiome Project (HMP) was to provide a reference
collection of 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences collected from sites across the
human body that would allow microbiologists to better associate changes in the
microbiome with changes in health. The HMP Consortium has reported the structure 
and function of the human microbiome in 300 healthy adults at 18 body sites from 
a single time point. Using additional data collected over the course of
12-18 months, we used Dirichlet multinomial mixture models to partition the data 
into community types for each body site and made three important observations.
First, there were strong associations between whether individuals had been
breastfed as an infant, their gender, and their level of education with their
community types at several body sites. Second, although the specific taxonomic
compositions of the oral and gut microbiomes were different, the community types 
observed at these sites were predictive of each other. Finally, over the course
of the sampling period, the community types from sites within the oral cavity
were the least stable, whereas those in the vagina and gut were the most stable. 
Our results demonstrate that even with the considerable intra- and interpersonal 
variation in the human microbiome, this variation can be partitioned into
community types that are predictive of each other and are probably the result of 
life-history characteristics. Understanding the diversity of community types and 
the mechanisms that result in an individual having a particular type or changing 
types, will allow us to use their community types to assess disease risk and to
personalize therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13178 
PMCID: PMC4139711
PMID: 24739969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13173. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Reconstructing lineage hierarchies of the distal lung epithelium using
single-cell RNA-seq.

Treutlein B(1), Brownfield DG(2), Wu AR(3), Neff NF(3), Mantalas GL(3), Espinoza 
FH(4), Desai TJ(5), Krasnow MA(4), Quake SR(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Departments of Bioengineering and Applied Physics, Stanford University
School of Medicine and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford, California
94305, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of Medicine and
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2].
(3)Departments of Bioengineering and Applied Physics, Stanford University School 
of Medicine and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of Medicine and Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care
Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2014 May 12;29(3):260-1.

The mammalian lung is a highly branched network in which the distal regions of
the bronchial tree transform during development into a densely packed honeycomb
of alveolar air sacs that mediate gas exchange. Although this transformation has 
been studied by marker expression analysis and fate-mapping, the mechanisms that 
control the progression of lung progenitors along distinct lineages into mature
alveolar cell types are still incompletely known, in part because of the limited 
number of lineage markers and the effects of ensemble averaging in conventional
transcriptome analysis experiments on cell populations. Here we show that
single-cell transcriptome analysis circumvents these problems and enables direct 
measurement of the various cell types and hierarchies in the developing lung. We 
used microfluidic single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on 198 individual cells at
four different stages encompassing alveolar differentiation to measure the
transcriptional states which define the developmental and cellular hierarchy of
the distal mouse lung epithelium. We empirically classified cells into distinct
groups by using an unbiased genome-wide approach that did not require a priori
knowledge of the underlying cell types or the previous purification of cell
populations. The results confirmed the basic outlines of the classical model of
epithelial cell-type diversity in the distal lung and led to the discovery of
many previously unknown cell-type markers, including transcriptional regulators
that discriminate between the different populations. We reconstructed the
molecular steps during maturation of bipotential progenitors along both alveolar 
lineages and elucidated the full life cycle of the alveolar type 2 cell lineage. 
This single-cell genomics approach is applicable to any developing or mature
tissue to robustly delineate molecularly distinct cell types, define progenitors 
and lineage hierarchies, and identify lineage-specific regulatory factors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13173 
PMCID: PMC4145853
PMID: 24739965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):366-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13157. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Caspase-11 activation requires lysis of pathogen-containing vacuoles by
IFN-induced GTPases.

Meunier E(1), Dick MS(2), Dreier RF(2), Schürmann N(1), Kenzelmann Broz D(3),
Warming S(4), Roose-Girma M(4), Bumann D(1), Kayagaki N(4), Takeda K(5), Yamamoto
M(5), Broz P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Focal Area Infection Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, 
Switzerland.
(2)1] Focal Area Infection Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056
Basel, Switzerland [2].
(3)Department Biomedicine, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Osaka University, Yamadaoka, Suita,
Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

Lipopolysaccharide from Gram-negative bacteria is sensed in the host cell
cytoplasm by a non-canonical inflammasome pathway that ultimately results in
caspase-11 activation and cell death. In mouse macrophages, activation of this
pathway requires the production of type-I interferons, indicating that
interferon-induced genes have a critical role in initiating this pathway. Here we
report that a cluster of small interferon-inducible GTPases, the so-called
guanylate-binding proteins, is required for the full activity of the
non-canonical caspase-11 inflammasome during infections with vacuolar
Gram-negative bacteria. We show that guanylate-binding proteins are recruited to 
intracellular bacterial pathogens and are necessary to induce the lysis of the
pathogen-containing vacuole. Lysis of the vacuole releases bacteria into the
cytosol, thus allowing the detection of their lipopolysaccharide by a yet unknown
lipopolysaccharide sensor. Moreover, recognition of the lysed vacuole by the
danger sensor galectin-8 initiates the uptake of bacteria into autophagosomes,
which results in a reduction of caspase-11 activation. These results indicate
that host-mediated lysis of pathogen-containing vacuoles is an essential immune
function and is necessary for efficient recognition of pathogens by inflammasome 
complexes in the cytosol.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13157 
PMID: 24739961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):361-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13160. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

T-cell activation by transitory neo-antigens derived from distinct microbial
pathways.

Corbett AJ(1), Eckle SB(1), Birkinshaw RW(2), Liu L(3), Patel O(4), Mahony J(5), 
Chen Z(6), Reantragoon R(6), Meehan B(6), Cao H(6), Williamson NA(7), Strugnell
RA(6), Van Sinderen D(8), Mak JY(9), Fairlie DP(10), Kjer-Nielsen L(1), Rossjohn 
J(11), McCluskey J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Peter Doherty Institute for
Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010,
Australia [2].
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Biomedical
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia [2].
(3)1] Division of Chemistry and Structural Biology, Institute for Molecular
Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia
[2].
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Biomedical
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(5)School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Peter Doherty Institute for
Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010,
Australia.
(7)The Bio21 Molecular Science and Biotechnology Institute, University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia.
(8)1] School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland [2]
Alimentary Pharmabiotic Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(9)Division of Chemistry and Structural Biology, Institute for Molecular
Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(10)1] Division of Chemistry and Structural Biology, Institute for Molecular
Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia
[2] Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in Advanced Molecular
Imaging, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia [3].
(11)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Biomedical
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia [2] Australian
Research Council Centre of Excellence in Advanced Molecular Imaging, Monash
University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia [3] Institute of Infection and
Immunity, Cardiff University, School of Medicine, Heath Park, Cardiff CF14 4XN,
UK [4].

T cells discriminate between foreign and host molecules by recognizing distinct
microbial molecules, predominantly peptides and lipids. Riboflavin precursors
found in many bacteria and yeast also selectively activate mucosal-associated
invariant T (MAIT) cells, an abundant population of innate-like T cells in
humans. However, the genesis of these small organic molecules and their mode of
presentation to MAIT cells by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-related 
protein MR1 (ref. 8) are not well understood. Here we show that MAIT-cell
activation requires key genes encoding enzymes that form
5-amino-6-d-ribitylaminouracil (5-A-RU), an early intermediate in bacterial
riboflavin synthesis. Although 5-A-RU does not bind MR1 or activate MAIT cells
directly, it does form potent MAIT-activating antigens via non-enzymatic
reactions with small molecules, such as glyoxal and methylglyoxal, which are
derived from other metabolic pathways. The MAIT antigens formed by the reactions 
between 5-A-RU and glyoxal/methylglyoxal were simple adducts,
5-(2-oxoethylideneamino)-6-D-ribitylaminouracil (5-OE-RU) and
5-(2-oxopropylideneamino)-6-D-ribitylaminouracil (5-OP-RU), respectively, which
bound to MR1 as shown by crystal structures of MAIT TCR ternary complexes.
Although 5-OP-RU and 5-OE-RU are unstable intermediates, they became trapped by
MR1 as reversible covalent Schiff base complexes. Mass spectra supported the
capture by MR1 of 5-OP-RU and 5-OE-RU from bacterial cultures that activate MAIT 
cells, but not from non-activating bacteria, indicating that these MAIT antigens 
are present in a range of microbes. Thus, MR1 is able to capture, stabilize and
present chemically unstable pyrimidine intermediates, which otherwise convert to 
lumazines, as potent antigens to MAIT cells. These pyrimidine adducts are
microbial signatures for MAIT-cell immunosurveillance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13160 
PMID: 24695216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):376-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13084. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Disruption of Mediator rescues the stunted growth of a lignin-deficient
Arabidopsis mutant.

Bonawitz ND(1), Kim JI(2), Tobimatsu Y(3), Ciesielski PN(4), Anderson NA(2),
Ximenes E(5), Maeda J(1), Ralph J(6), Donohoe BS(4), Ladisch M(7), Chapple C(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana
47907, USA [2] Dow AgroSciences LLC, 9330 Zionsville Road, Indianapolis, Indiana 
46268, USA (N.D.B.); Department of Agronomy, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
1575 Linden Drive, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA (J.M.).
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, 
USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(4)Biosciences Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, Colorado
80401, USA.
(5)Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering and the Laboratory of
Renewable Resources Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana
47907, USA.
(6)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin 53706, USA [2] Department of Biological Systems Engineering, University
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA [3] DOE Great Lakes Bioenergy
Research Center, and Wisconsin Energy Institute, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin 53726, USA.
(7)1] Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering and the Laboratory of
Renewable Resources Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana
47907, USA [2] Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA.

Lignin is a phenylpropanoid-derived heteropolymer important for the strength and 
rigidity of the plant secondary cell wall. Genetic disruption of lignin
biosynthesis has been proposed as a means to improve forage and bioenergy crops, 
but frequently results in stunted growth and developmental abnormalities, the
mechanisms of which are poorly understood. Here we show that the phenotype of a
lignin-deficient Arabidopsis mutant is dependent on the transcriptional
co-regulatory complex, Mediator. Disruption of the Mediator complex subunits
MED5a (also known as REF4) and MED5b (also known as RFR1) rescues the stunted
growth, lignin deficiency and widespread changes in gene expression seen in the
phenylpropanoid pathway mutant ref8, without restoring the synthesis of guaiacyl 
and syringyl lignin subunits. Cell walls of rescued med5a/5b ref8 plants instead 
contain a novel lignin consisting almost exclusively of p-hydroxyphenyl lignin
subunits, and moreover exhibit substantially facilitated polysaccharide
saccharification. These results demonstrate that guaiacyl and syringyl lignin
subunits are largely dispensable for normal growth and development, implicate
Mediator in an active transcriptional process responsible for dwarfing and
inhibition of lignin biosynthesis, and suggest that the transcription machinery
and signalling pathways responding to cell wall defects may be important targets 
to include in efforts to reduce biomass recalcitrance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13084 
PMID: 24670657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Nature. 2014 May 15;509(7500):381-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13117. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

Structure of the core ectodomain of the hepatitis C virus envelope glycoprotein
2.

Khan AG(1), Whidby J(1), Miller MT(1), Scarborough H(2), Zatorski AV(1), Cygan
A(1), Price AA(2), Yost SA(1), Bohannon CD(2), Jacob J(2), Grakoui A(3),
Marcotrigiano J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, Department of Chemistry and
Chemical Biology, Rutgers University, 679 Hoes Lane West, Piscataway, New Jersey 
08854, USA.
(2)Division of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, Emory
University School of Medicine, 100 Woodruff Circle, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(3)1] Division of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, Emory
University School of Medicine, 100 Woodruff Circle, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA
[2] Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Emory University
School of Medicine, 100 Woodruff Circle, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a significant public health concern with approximately
160 million people infected worldwide. HCV infection often results in chronic
hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. No vaccine is available 
and current therapies are effective against some, but not all, genotypes. HCV is 
an enveloped virus with two surface glycoproteins (E1 and E2). E2 binds to the
host cell through interactions with scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) and
CD81, and serves as a target for neutralizing antibodies. Little is known about
the molecular mechanism that mediates cell entry and membrane fusion, although E2
is predicted to be a class II viral fusion protein. Here we describe the
structure of the E2 core domain in complex with an antigen-binding fragment (Fab)
at 2.4 Å resolution. The E2 core has a compact, globular domain structure,
consisting mostly of β-strands and random coil with two small α-helices. The
strands are arranged in two, perpendicular sheets (A and B), which are held
together by an extensive hydrophobic core and disulphide bonds. Sheet A has an
IgG-like fold that is commonly found in viral and cellular proteins, whereas
sheet B represents a novel fold. Solution-based studies demonstrate that the
full-length E2 ectodomain has a similar globular architecture and does not
undergo significant conformational or oligomeric rearrangements on exposure to
low pH. Thus, the IgG-like fold is the only feature that E2 shares with class II 
membrane fusion proteins. These results provide unprecedented insights into HCV
entry and will assist in developing an HCV vaccine and new inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13117 
PMCID: PMC4126800
PMID: 24553139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):218-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13247.

Consequences of biodiversity loss for litter decomposition across biomes.

Handa IT(1), Aerts R(2), Berendse F(3), Berg MP(2), Bruder A(4), Butenschoen
O(5), Chauvet E(6), Gessner MO(7), Jabiol J(6), Makkonen M(8), McKie BG(9),
Malmqvist B(10), Peeters ET(11), Scheu S(5), Schmid B(12), van Ruijven J(3), Vos 
VC(3), Hättenschwiler S(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CEFE), CNRS, 1919 Route de
Mende, 34293 Montpellier, France [2] Département des Sciences Biologiques,
Université du Québec à Montréal, C.P. 8888, succursale Centre-ville, Montréal,
Québec H3C 3P8, Canada.
(2)Department of Ecological Science, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1085, 
1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Nature Conservation and Plant Ecology Group, Wageningen University,
Droevendaalsesteeg 3a, 6708 PB Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(4)1] Department of Aquatic Ecology, Eawag: Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic
Science and Technology, Überlandstrasse 133, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland [2]
Institute of Integrative Biology (IBZ), ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Georg August University Göttingen, J.F. Blumenbach Institute of Zoology and
Anthropology, Berliner Strasse 28, 37073 Göttingen, Germany.
(6)1] Université de Toulouse, INP, UPS, EcoLab (Laboratoire Ecologie
Fonctionnelle et Environnement), 118 Route de Narbonne, 31062 Toulouse Cedex,
France [2] CNRS, EcoLab, 118 Route de Narbonne, 31062 Toulouse Cedex, France.
(7)1] Department of Aquatic Ecology, Eawag: Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic
Science and Technology, Überlandstrasse 133, 8600 Dübendorf, Switzerland [2]
Institute of Integrative Biology (IBZ), ETH Zürich, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland [3] 
Leibniz Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB), Alte
Fischerhütte 2, 16775 Stechlin, Germany [4] Department of Ecology, Berlin
Institute of Technology (TU Berlin), Ernst-Reuter-Platz 1, 10587 Berlin, Germany.
(8)1] Department of Ecological Science, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan
1085, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2] Climate Change Programme, Finnish
Environment Institute, PO Box 140, 00251 Helsinki, Finland.
(9)1] Department of Ecology and Environmental Science, Umeå University, 90187
Umeå, Sweden [2] Department of Aquatic Sciences and Assessment, Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences, PO Box 7050, 75007 Uppsala, Sweden.
(10)Deceased.
(11)Aquatic Ecology and Water Quality Management Group, Wageningen University, PO
Box 47, 6700 AA Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(12)Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies & Zürich-Basel
Plant Science Center, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich,
Switzerland.
(13)Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CEFE), CNRS, 1919 Route de
Mende, 34293 Montpellier, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):173-4.

The decomposition of dead organic matter is a major determinant of carbon and
nutrient cycling in ecosystems, and of carbon fluxes between the biosphere and
the atmosphere. Decomposition is driven by a vast diversity of organisms that are
structured in complex food webs. Identifying the mechanisms underlying the
effects of biodiversity on decomposition is critical given the rapid loss of
species worldwide and the effects of this loss on human well-being. Yet despite
comprehensive syntheses of studies on how biodiversity affects litter
decomposition, key questions remain, including when, where and how biodiversity
has a role and whether general patterns and mechanisms occur across ecosystems
and different functional types of organism. Here, in field experiments across
five terrestrial and aquatic locations, ranging from the subarctic to the
tropics, we show that reducing the functional diversity of decomposer organisms
and plant litter types slowed the cycling of litter carbon and nitrogen.
Moreover, we found evidence of nitrogen transfer from the litter of
nitrogen-fixing plants to that of rapidly decomposing plants, but not between
other plant functional types, highlighting that specific interactions in litter
mixtures control carbon and nitrogen cycling during decomposition. The emergence 
of this general mechanism and the coherence of patterns across contrasting
terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems suggest that biodiversity loss has consistent 
consequences for litter decomposition and the cycling of major elements on broad 
spatial scales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13247 
PMID: 24805346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):209-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13260.

Tropical forcing of the recent rapid Arctic warming in northeastern Canada and
Greenland.

Ding Q(1), Wallace JM(2), Battisti DS(2), Steig EJ(1), Gallant AJ(3), Kim HJ(4), 
Geng L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Space Sciences and Quaternary Research Center,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(2)Department of Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(3)School of Geography and Environmental Science, Monash University, Victoria
3800, Australia.
(4)Climate Research Department, APEC Climate Center, 12 Centum 7-ro, Haeundae-gu,
Busan 612-020, South Korea.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):167-8.

Rapid Arctic warming and sea-ice reduction in the Arctic Ocean are widely
attributed to anthropogenic climate change. The Arctic warming exceeds the global
average warming because of feedbacks that include sea-ice reduction and other
dynamical and radiative feedbacks. We find that the most prominent annual mean
surface and tropospheric warming in the Arctic since 1979 has occurred in
northeastern Canada and Greenland. In this region, much of the year-to-year
temperature variability is associated with the leading mode of large-scale
circulation variability in the North Atlantic, namely, the North Atlantic
Oscillation. Here we show that the recent warming in this region is strongly
associated with a negative trend in the North Atlantic Oscillation, which is a
response to anomalous Rossby wave-train activity originating in the tropical
Pacific. Atmospheric model experiments forced by prescribed tropical sea surface 
temperatures simulate the observed circulation changes and associated
tropospheric and surface warming over northeastern Canada and Greenland.
Experiments from the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project Phase 5 (ref. 16)
models with prescribed anthropogenic forcing show no similar circulation changes 
related to the North Atlantic Oscillation or associated tropospheric warming.
This suggests that a substantial portion of recent warming in the northeastern
Canada and Greenland sector of the Arctic arises from unforced natural
variability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13260 
PMID: 24805345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):205-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13202.

Classical shear cracks drive the onset of dry frictional motion.

Svetlizky I(1), Fineberg J(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Givat Ram,
Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

Frictional processes entail the rupture of the ensemble of discrete contacts
defining a frictional interface. There are a variety of views on how best to
describe the onset of dry frictional motion. These range from modelling friction 
with a single degree of freedom, a 'friction coefficient', to theoretical
treatments using dynamic fracture to account for spatial and temporal dynamics
along the interface. We investigated the onset of dry frictional motion by
performing simultaneous high-speed measurements of the real contact area and the 
strain fields in the region surrounding propagating rupture tips within the dry
(nominally flat) rough interfaces formed by brittle polymer blocks. Here we show 
that the transition from 'static' to 'dynamic' friction is quantitatively
described by classical singular solutions for the motion of a rapid shear crack. 
We find that these singular solutions, originally derived to describe brittle
fracture, are in excellent agreement with the experiments for slow propagation,
whereas some significant discrepancies arise as the rupture velocity approaches
the Rayleigh wave speed. In addition, the energy dissipated in the fracture of
the contacts remains nearly constant throughout the entire range in which the
rupture velocity is less than the Rayleigh wave speed, whereas the size of the
dissipative zone undergoes a Lorentz-like contraction as the rupture velocity
approaches the Rayleigh wave speed. This coupling between friction and fracture
is critical to our fundamental understanding of frictional motion and related
processes, such as earthquake dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13202 
PMID: 24805344 


641. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):177-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13316.

Properties of galaxies reproduced by a hydrodynamic simulation.

Vogelsberger M(1), Genel S(2), Springel V(3), Torrey P(2), Sijacki D(4), Xu D(5),
Snyder G(6), Bird S(7), Nelson D(2), Hernquist L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(3)1] Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies, Schloss-Wolfsbrunnenweg 35,
69118 Heidelberg, Germany [2] Zentrum für Astronomie der Universität Heidelberg, 
ARI, Mönchhofstrasse 12-14, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Kavli Institute for Cosmology, and Institute of Astronomy, Madingley Road,
Cambridge CB3 0HA, UK.
(5)Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies, Schloss-Wolfsbrunnenweg 35,
69118 Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Space Telescope Science Institute, 3700 San Martin Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 
21218, USA.
(7)Institute for Advanced Study, 1 Einstein Drive, Princeton, New Jersey 08540,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):170-1.

Previous simulations of the growth of cosmic structures have broadly reproduced
the 'cosmic web' of galaxies that we see in the Universe, but failed to create a 
mixed population of elliptical and spiral galaxies, because of numerical
inaccuracies and incomplete physical models. Moreover, they were unable to track 
the small-scale evolution of gas and stars to the present epoch within a
representative portion of the Universe. Here we report a simulation that starts
12 million years after the Big Bang, and traces 13 billion years of cosmic
evolution with 12 billion resolution elements in a cube of 106.5 megaparsecs a
side. It yields a reasonable population of ellipticals and spirals, reproduces
the observed distribution of galaxies in clusters and characteristics of hydrogen
on large scales, and at the same time matches the 'metal' and hydrogen content of
galaxies on small scales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13316 
PMID: 24805343 


642. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):201-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13237. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Circular polarization in the optical afterglow of GRB 121024A.

Wiersema K(1), Covino S(2), Toma K(3), van der Horst AJ(4), Varela K(5), Min
M(4), Greiner J(5), Starling RL(1), Tanvir NR(1), Wijers RA(4), Campana S(2),
Curran PA(6), Fan Y(7), Fynbo JP(8), Gorosabel J(9), Gomboc A(10), Götz D(11),
Hjorth J(8), Jin ZP(7), Kobayashi S(12), Kouveliotou C(13), Mundell C(12),
O'Brien PT(1), Pian E(14), Rowlinson A(4), Russell DM(15), Salvaterra R(16), di
Serego Alighieri S(17), Tagliaferri G(2), Vergani SD(2), Elliott J(5), Fariña
C(18), Hartoog OE(4), Karjalainen R(18), Klose S(19), Knust F(5), Levan AJ(20),
Schady P(5), Sudilovsky V(5), Willingale R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Leicester, Leicester LE1
7RH, UK.
(2)INAF/Brera Astronomical Observatory, via Bianchi 46, I-23807 Merate (LC),
Italy.
(3)1] Department of Earth and Space Science, Osaka University, Toyonaka 560-0043,
Japan [2] Astronomical Institute, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8578, Japan [3]
Frontier Research Institute for Interdisciplinary Sciences, Tohoku University,
Sendai 980-8578, Japan.
(4)Astronomical Institute 'Anton Pannekoek', University of Amsterdam, PO Box
94248, 1090 SJ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Max-Planck-Institut für extraterrestrische Physik, Giessenbachstrasse 1,
D-85748 Garching, Germany.
(6)International Centre for Radio Astronomy Research, Curtin University, GPO Box 
U1987, Perth, Western Australia 6845, Australia.
(7)Key Laboratory of Dark Matter and Space Astronomy, Purple Mountain
Observatory, Chinese Academy of Science, Nanjing 210008, China.
(8)Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane
Maries Vej 30, DK 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(9)1] Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía (IAA-CSIC), Glorieta de la Astronomía
s/n, E-18008 Granada, Spain [2] Unidad Asociada Grupo Ciencia Planetarias
UPV/EHU-IAA/CSIC, Departamento de Física Aplicada I, ETS Ingeniería, Universidad 
del País Vasco UPV/EHU, Alameda de Urquijo s/n, E-48013 Bilbao, Spain [3]
Ikerbasque, Basque Foundation for Science, Alameda de Urquijo 36-5, E-48008
Bilbao, Spain.
(10)Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, University of Ljubljana, Jadranska 19,
1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(11)AIM (UMR 7158 CEA/DSM-CNRS-Université Paris Diderot) Irfu/Service
d'Astrophysique, Saclay, F-91191 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex, France.
(12)Astrophysics Research Institute, Liverpool John Moores University, Liverpool 
Science Park, IC2 Building, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool L3 5RF, UK.
(13)Space Science Office, ZP12, NASA/Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville,
Alabama 35812, USA.
(14)1] Scuola Normale Superiore, 7, I-56126 Pisa, Italy [2] INAF/IASF Bologna,
via Gobetti 101, I-40129 Bologna, Italy.
(15)1] Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias (IAC), E-38200 La Laguna, Tenerife,
Spain [2] Departamento de Astrofísica, Universidad de La Laguna, E-38206 La
Laguna, Tenerife, Spain [3] New York University Abu Dhabi, PO Box 129188, Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(16)INAF/IASF Milano, via E. Bassini 15, 20133 Milano, Italy.
(17)INAF-Osservatorio Astrofisico di Arcetri, Largo E. Fermi 5, I-50125 Firenze, 
Italy.
(18)Isaac Newton Group of Telescopes, Apartado de Correos 321, E-38700 Santa Cruz
de la Palma, Canary Islands, Spain.
(19)Thüringer Landessternwarte Tautenburg, Sternwarte 5, 07778 Tautenburg,
Germany.
(20)Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.

Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are most probably powered by collimated relativistic
outflows (jets) from accreting black holes at cosmological distances. Bright
afterglows are produced when the outflow collides with the ambient medium.
Afterglow polarization directly probes the magnetic properties of the jet when
measured minutes after the burst, and it probes the geometric properties of the
jet and the ambient medium when measured hours to days after the burst. High
values of optical polarization detected minutes after the burst of GRB 120308A
indicate the presence of large-scale ordered magnetic fields originating from the
central engine (the power source of the GRB). Theoretical models predict low
degrees of linear polarization and no circular polarization at late times, when
the energy in the original ejecta is quickly transferred to the ambient medium
and propagates farther into the medium as a blast wave. Here we report the
detection of circularly polarized light in the afterglow of GRB 121024A, measured
0.15 days after the burst. We show that the circular polarization is intrinsic to
the afterglow and unlikely to be produced by dust scattering or plasma
propagation effects. A possible explanation is to invoke anisotropic (rather than
the commonly assumed isotropic) electron pitch-angle distributions, and we
suggest that new models are required to produce the complex microphysics of
realistic shocks in relativistic jets.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13237 
PMID: 24776800 


643. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):222-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13272. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Niche filling slows the diversification of Himalayan songbirds.

Price TD(1), Hooper DM(1), Buchanan CD(1), Johansson US(2), Tietze DT(3), Alström
P(4), Olsson U(5), Ghosh-Harihar M(6), Ishtiaq F(6), Gupta SK(6), Martens J(7),
Harr B(8), Singh P(6), Mohan D(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 
60637, USA.
(2)1] Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA [2] Department of Zoology, Swedish Museum of Natural History,
10405 Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)1] Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA [2] Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology,
University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 364, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)1] Key Laboratory of Zoological Systematics and Evolution, Institute of
Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 1 Beichen West Road, Chaoyang District,
Beijing 100101, China [2] Swedish Species Information Centre, Swedish University 
of Agricultural Sciences, Box 7007, 75007 Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)Systematics and Biodiversity, Department of Biology and Environmental
Sciences, University of Gothenburg, 40530 Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Wildlife Institute of India, PO Box 18, Chandrabani, Dehradun 248001, India.
(7)Institute of Zoology, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz 55099, Germany.
(8)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, August Thienemannstrasse 2,
24306 Plön, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):171-2.

Speciation generally involves a three-step process--range expansion, range
fragmentation and the development of reproductive isolation between spatially
separated populations. Speciation relies on cycling through these three steps and
each may limit the rate at which new species form. We estimate phylogenetic
relationships among all Himalayan songbirds to ask whether the development of
reproductive isolation and ecological competition, both factors that limit range 
expansions, set an ultimate limit on speciation. Based on a phylogeny for all 358
species distributed along the eastern elevational gradient, here we show that
body size and shape differences evolved early in the radiation, with the
elevational band occupied by a species evolving later. These results are
consistent with competition for niche space limiting species accumulation. Even
the elevation dimension seems to be approaching ecological saturation, because
the closest relatives both inside the assemblage and elsewhere in the Himalayas
are on average separated by more than five million years, which is longer than it
generally takes for reproductive isolation to be completed; also, elevational
distributions are well explained by resource availability, notably the abundance 
of arthropods, and not by differences in diversification rates in different
elevational zones. Our results imply that speciation rate is ultimately set by
niche filling (that is, ecological competition for resources), rather than by the
rate of acquisition of reproductive isolation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13272 
PMID: 24776798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):189-94. doi: 10.1038/nature13161. Epub 2014 Apr 28.

Astrocyte-encoded positional cues maintain sensorimotor circuit integrity.

Molofsky AV(1), Kelley KW(2), Tsai HH(3), Redmond SA(4), Chang SM(5), Madireddy
L(6), Chan JR(6), Baranzini SE(6), Ullian EM(7), Rowitch DH(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California San Francisco,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of
Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Department of Psychiatry,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California San Francisco,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of
Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Department of Pediatrics,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [4] 
Medical Scientist Training Program, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA [5] Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of
California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [6].
(3)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California San Francisco,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of
Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Department of Pediatrics,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [4].
(4)1] Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Department of Neurology, University of
California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(5)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California San Francisco,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of
Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(7)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(8)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California San Francisco,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of
Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Department of Pediatrics,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [4] 
Department of Neurosurgery, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Jun;15(6):352-3.

Astrocytes, the most abundant cells in the central nervous system, promote
synapse formation and help to refine neural connectivity. Although they are
allocated to spatially distinct regional domains during development, it is
unknown whether region-restricted astrocytes are functionally heterogeneous. Here
we show that postnatal spinal cord astrocytes express several region-specific
genes, and that ventral astrocyte-encoded semaphorin 3a (Sema3a) is required for 
proper motor neuron and sensory neuron circuit organization. Loss of
astrocyte-encoded Sema3a leads to dysregulated α-motor neuron axon initial
segment orientation, markedly abnormal synaptic inputs, and selective death of α-
but not of adjacent γ-motor neurons. In addition, a subset of TrkA(+) sensory
afferents projects to ectopic ventral positions. These findings demonstrate that 
stable maintenance of a positional cue by developing astrocytes influences
multiple aspects of sensorimotor circuit formation. More generally, they suggest 
that regional astrocyte heterogeneity may help to coordinate postnatal neural
circuit refinement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13161 
PMCID: PMC4057936
PMID: 24776795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):245-248. doi: 10.1038/nature13310. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Signal amplification and transduction in phytochrome photosensors.

Takala H(#)(1)(2), Björling A(#)(2), Berntsson O(2), Lehtivuori H(1), Niebling
S(2), Hoernke M(2), Kosheleva I(3), Henning R(3), Menzel A(4), Ihalainen JA(1),
Westenhoff S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nanoscience Center, Department of Biological and Environmental Science,
University of Jyväskylä, 40014 Jyväskylä, Finland.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, 40530
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Center for Advanced Radiation Sources, The University of Chicago, IL 60637,
USA.
(4)Paul Scherrer Institut, 5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):174-5.

Sensory proteins must relay structural signals from the sensory site over large
distances to regulatory output domains. Phytochromes are a major family of
red-light-sensing kinases that control diverse cellular functions in plants,
bacteria and fungi. Bacterial phytochromes consist of a photosensory core and a
carboxy-terminal regulatory domain. Structures of photosensory cores are reported
in the resting state and conformational responses to light activation have been
proposed in the vicinity of the chromophore. However, the structure of the
signalling state and the mechanism of downstream signal relay through the
photosensory core remain elusive. Here we report crystal and solution structures 
of the resting and activated states of the photosensory core of the
bacteriophytochrome from Deinococcus radiodurans. The structures show an open and
closed form of the dimeric protein for the activated and resting states,
respectively. This nanometre-scale rearrangement is controlled by refolding of an
evolutionarily conserved 'tongue', which is in contact with the chromophore. The 
findings reveal an unusual mechanism in which atomic-scale conformational changes
around the chromophore are first amplified into an ångstrom-scale distance change
in the tongue, and further grow into a nanometre-scale conformational signal. The
structural mechanism is a blueprint for understanding how phytochromes connect to
the cellular signalling network.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13310 
PMCID: PMC4015848
PMID: 24776794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):213-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13139. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Predicting biodiversity change and averting collapse in agricultural landscapes.

Mendenhall CD(1), Karp DS(2), Meyer CF(3), Hadly EA(4), Daily GC(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Conservation Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305, USA [2] Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA.
(2)1] Center for Conservation Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305, USA [2] Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA [3] Department of Environmental Science, Policy & Management,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [4] The Nature
Conservancy, Berkeley, California 94705, USA.
(3)1] Institute of Experimental Ecology, University of Ulm, 89069 Ulm, Germany
[2] Centre for Environmental Biology, University of Lisbon, 1749-016 Lisbon,
Portugal.
(4)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(5)1] Center for Conservation Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305, USA [2] Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA [3] Woods Institute for the Environment, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA [4] Global Economic Dynamics and the Biosphere,
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, SE-104 05, Sweden [5] Stockholm
Resilience Centre, University of Stockholm, Stockholm, SE-106 91, Sweden.

The equilibrium theory of island biogeography is the basis for estimating
extinction rates and a pillar of conservation science. The default strategy for
conserving biodiversity is the designation of nature reserves, treated as islands
in an inhospitable sea of human activity. Despite the profound influence of
islands on conservation theory and practice, their mainland analogues, forest
fragments in human-dominated landscapes, consistently defy expected biodiversity 
patterns based on island biogeography theory. Countryside biogeography is an
alternative framework, which recognizes that the fate of the world's wildlife
will be decided largely by the hospitality of agricultural or countryside
ecosystems. Here we directly test these biogeographic theories by comparing a
Neotropical countryside ecosystem with a nearby island ecosystem, and show that
each supports similar bat biodiversity in fundamentally different ways. The
island ecosystem conforms to island biogeographic predictions of bat species
loss, in which the water matrix is not habitat. In contrast, the countryside
ecosystem has high species richness and evenness across forest reserves and
smaller forest fragments. Relative to forest reserves and fragments, deforested
countryside habitat supports a less species-rich, yet equally even, bat
assemblage. Moreover, the bat assemblage associated with deforested habitat is
compositionally novel because of predictable changes in abundances by many
species using human-made habitat. Finally, we perform a global meta-analysis of
bat biogeographic studies, spanning more than 700 species. It generalizes our
findings, showing that separate biogeographic theories for countryside and island
ecosystems are necessary. A theory of countryside biogeography is essential to
conservation strategy in the agricultural ecosystems that comprise roughly half
of the global land surface and are likely to increase even further.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13139 
PMID: 24739971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):230-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13168. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Listeria monocytogenes exploits efferocytosis to promote cell-to-cell spread.

Czuczman MA(1), Fattouh R(2), van Rijn JM(3), Canadien V(2), Osborne S(2), Muise 
AM(4), Kuchroo VK(5), Higgins DE(6), Brumell JH(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Cell Biology Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G0A4, 
Canada [2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S1A8, Canada.
(2)Cell Biology Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G0A4,
Canada.
(3)Department of Cell Biology and Institute of Biomembranes, University Medical
Center Utrecht, 3584 CX Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(4)1] Cell Biology Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G0A4, 
Canada [2] Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Department of
Paediatrics, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G1X8, Canada [3]
Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S1A8,
Canada [4] Sickkids IBD Centre, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario
M5G1X8, Canada.
(5)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(7)1] Cell Biology Program, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G0A4, 
Canada [2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S1A8, Canada [3] Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S1A8, Canada [4] Sickkids IBD Centre, Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G1X8, Canada.

Comment in
    Trends Microbiol. 2014 Jul;22(7):370-1.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Jun;12(6):396-7.

Efferocytosis, the process by which dying or dead cells are removed by
phagocytosis, has an important role in development, tissue homeostasis and innate
immunity. Efferocytosis is mediated, in part, by receptors that bind to exofacial
phosphatidylserine (PS) on cells or cellular debris after loss of plasma membrane
asymmetry. Here we show that a bacterial pathogen, Listeria monocytogenes, can
exploit efferocytosis to promote cell-to-cell spread during infection. These
bacteria can escape the phagosome in host cells by using the pore-forming toxin
listeriolysin O (LLO) and two phospholipase C enzymes. Expression of the cell
surface protein ActA allows L. monocytogenes to activate host actin regulatory
factors and undergo actin-based motility in the cytosol, eventually leading to
formation of actin-rich protrusions at the cell surface. Here we show that
protrusion formation is associated with plasma membrane damage due to LLO's
pore-forming activity. LLO also promotes the release of bacteria-containing
protrusions from the host cell, generating membrane-derived vesicles with
exofacial PS. The PS-binding receptor TIM-4 (encoded by the Timd4 gene)
contributes to efficient cell-to-cell spread by L. monocytogenes in macrophages
in vitro and growth of these bacteria is impaired in Timd4(-/-) mice. Thus, L.
monocytogenes promotes its dissemination in a host by exploiting efferocytosis.
Our results indicate that PS-targeted therapeutics may be useful in the fight
against infections by L. monocytogenes and other bacteria that use similar
strategies of cell-to-cell spread during infection.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13168 
PMCID: PMC4151619
PMID: 24739967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13152. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

NRROS negatively regulates reactive oxygen species during host defence and
autoimmunity.

Noubade R(1), Wong K(2), Ota N(2), Rutz S(2), Eidenschenk C(2), Valdez PA(1),
Ding J(2), Peng I(2), Sebrell A(3), Caplazi P(4), DeVoss J(2), Soriano RH(5), Sai
T(3), Lu R(2), Modrusan Z(5), Hackney J(6), Ouyang W(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Immunology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA [2] Flexus Biosciences, 75 Shoreway Road, Suite D, San
Carlos, California 94070, USA (R.N.); American Society for Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, 11200 Rockville Pike, Suite 302, Rockville, Maryland 20852,
USA (P.A.V.).
(2)Department of Immunology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(3)Department of Antibody Engineering, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(6)Department of Bioinformatics, Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, 
California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Aug;24(8):908-9.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Jun;14(6):357.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by phagocytes are essential for host
defence against bacterial and fungal infections. Individuals with defective ROS
production machinery develop chronic granulomatous disease. Conversely, excessive
ROS can cause collateral tissue damage during inflammatory processes and
therefore needs to be tightly regulated. Here we describe a protein, we termed
negative regulator of ROS (NRROS), which limits ROS generation by phagocytes
during inflammatory responses. NRROS expression in phagocytes can be repressed by
inflammatory signals. NRROS-deficient phagocytes produce increased ROS upon
inflammatory challenges, and mice lacking NRROS in their phagocytes show enhanced
bactericidal activity against Escherichia coli and Listeria monocytogenes.
Conversely, these mice develop severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
owing to oxidative tissue damage in the central nervous system. Mechanistically, 
NRROS is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, where it directly interacts with
nascent NOX2 (also known as gp91(phox) and encoded by Cybb) monomer, one of the
membrane-bound subunits of the NADPH oxidase complex, and facilitates the
degradation of NOX2 through the endoplasmic-reticulum-associated degradation
pathway. Thus, NRROS provides a hitherto undefined mechanism for regulating ROS
production--one that enables phagocytes to produce higher amounts of ROS, if
required to control invading pathogens, while minimizing unwanted collateral
tissue damage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13152 
PMID: 24739962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):195-200. doi: 10.1038/nature13154. Epub 2014 Mar 30.

Synapse elimination and learning rules co-regulated by MHC class I H2-Db.

Lee H(1), Brott BK(1), Kirkby LA(2), Adelson JD(1), Cheng S(1), Feller MB(2),
Datwani A(3), Shatz CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biology and Neurobiology and Bio-X, James H. Clark Center, 318 
Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology & Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(3)1] Departments of Biology and Neurobiology and Bio-X, James H. Clark Center,
318 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Sage Bionetworks, 1100
Fairview Avenue N., Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 May;15(5):280.

The formation of precise connections between retina and lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) involves the activity-dependent elimination of some synapses, with 
strengthening and retention of others. Here we show that the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecule H2-D(b) is necessary and
sufficient for synapse elimination in the retinogeniculate system. In mice
lacking both H2-K(b) and H2-D(b) (K(b)D(b)(-/-)), despite intact retinal activity
and basal synaptic transmission, the developmentally regulated decrease in
functional convergence of retinal ganglion cell synaptic inputs to LGN neurons
fails and eye-specific layers do not form. Neuronal expression of just H2-D(b) in
K(b)D(b)(-/-) mice rescues both synapse elimination and eye-specific segregation 
despite a compromised immune system. When patterns of stimulation mimicking
endogenous retinal waves are used to probe synaptic learning rules at
retinogeniculate synapses, long-term potentiation (LTP) is intact but long-term
depression (LTD) is impaired in K(b)D(b)(-/-) mice. This change is due to an
increase in Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA (α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole
propionic acid) receptors. Restoring H2-D(b) to K(b)D(b)(-/-) neurons renders
AMPA receptors Ca(2+) impermeable and rescues LTD. These observations reveal an
MHC-class-I-mediated link between developmental synapse pruning and balanced
synaptic learning rules enabling both LTD and LTP, and demonstrate a direct
requirement for H2-D(b) in functional and structural synapse pruning in CNS
neurons.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13154 
PMCID: PMC4016165
PMID: 24695230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13133. Epub 2014 Mar 30.

Endosomes are specialized platforms for bacterial sensing and NOD2 signalling.

Nakamura N(1), Lill JR(1), Phung Q(1), Jiang Z(1), Bakalarski C(1), de Mazière
A(2), Klumperman J(2), Schlatter M(1), Delamarre L(1), Mellman I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genentech, 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CX
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The detection of microbial pathogens involves the recognition of conserved
microbial components by host cell sensors such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and 
NOD-like receptors (NLRs). TLRs are membrane receptors that survey the
extracellular environment for microbial infections, whereas NLRs are cytosolic
complexes that detect microbial products that reach the cytosol. Upon detection, 
both sensor classes trigger innate inflammatory responses and allow the
engagement of adaptive immunity. Endo-lysosomes are the entry sites for a variety
of pathogens, and therefore the sites at which the immune system first senses
their presence. Pathogens internalized by endocytosis are well known to activate 
TLRs 3 and 7-9 that are localized to endocytic compartments and detect ligands
present in the endosomal lumen. Internalized pathogens also activate sensors in
the cytosol such as NOD1 and NOD2 (ref. 2), indicating that endosomes also
provide for the translocation of bacterial components across the endosomal
membrane. Despite the fact that NOD2 is well understood to have a key role in
regulating innate immune responses and that mutations at the NOD2 locus are a
common risk factor in inflammatory bowel disease and possibly other chronic
inflammatory states, little is known about how its ligands escape from endosomes.
Here we show that two endo-lysosomal peptide transporters, SLC15A3 and SLC15A4,
are preferentially expressed by dendritic cells, especially after TLR
stimulation. The transporters mediate the egress of bacterially derived
components, such as the NOD2 cognate ligand muramyl dipeptide (MDP), and are
selectively required for NOD2 responses to endosomally derived MDP. Enhanced
expression of the transporters also generates endosomal membrane tubules
characteristic of dendritic cells, which further enhanced the NOD2-dependent
response to MDP. Finally, sensing required the recruitment of NOD2 and its
effector kinase RIPK2 (refs 8, 9) to the endosomal membrane, possibly by forming 
a complex with SLC15A3 or SLC15A4. Thus, dendritic cell endosomes are specialized
platforms for both the lumenal and cytosolic sensing of pathogens.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13133 
PMID: 24695226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):226-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13159. Epub 2014 Mar 30.

Sensory stimulation shifts visual cortex from synchronous to asynchronous states.

Tan AY(1), Chen Y(2), Scholl B(1), Seidemann E(3), Priebe NJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Perceptual Systems, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712,
USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, College of Natural Sciences, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA [3].
(2)1] Center for Perceptual Systems, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712,
USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, College of Natural Sciences, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA [3] Department of Psychology, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA [4].
(3)1] Center for Perceptual Systems, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712,
USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, College of Natural Sciences, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA [3] Department of Psychology, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(4)1] Center for Perceptual Systems, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712,
USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, College of Natural Sciences, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

In the mammalian cerebral cortex, neural responses are highly variable during
spontaneous activity and sensory stimulation. To explain this variability, the
cortex of alert animals has been proposed to be in an asynchronous
high-conductance state in which irregular spiking arises from the convergence of 
large numbers of uncorrelated excitatory and inhibitory inputs onto individual
neurons. Signatures of this state are that a neuron's membrane potential (Vm)
hovers just below spike threshold, and its aggregate synaptic input is nearly
Gaussian, arising from many uncorrelated inputs. Alternatively, irregular spiking
could arise from infrequent correlated input events that elicit large
fluctuations in Vm (refs 5, 6). To distinguish between these hypotheses, we
developed a technique to perform whole-cell Vm measurements from the cortex of
behaving monkeys, focusing on primary visual cortex (V1) of monkeys performing a 
visual fixation task. Here we show that, contrary to the predictions of an
asynchronous state, mean Vm during fixation was far from threshold (14 mV) and
spiking was triggered by occasional large spontaneous fluctuations. Distributions
of Vm values were skewed beyond that expected for a range of Gaussian input, but 
were consistent with synaptic input arising from infrequent correlated events.
Furthermore, spontaneous fluctuations in Vm were correlated with the surrounding 
network activity, as reflected in simultaneously recorded nearby local field
potential. Visual stimulation, however, led to responses more consistent with an 
asynchronous state: mean Vm approached threshold, fluctuations became more
Gaussian, and correlations between single neurons and the surrounding network
were disrupted. These observations show that sensory drive can shift a common
cortical circuitry from a synchronous to an asynchronous state.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13159 
PMCID: PMC4067243
PMID: 24695217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nature. 2014 May 8;509(7499):183-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13135. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

FXR is a molecular target for the effects of vertical sleeve gastrectomy.

Ryan KK(1), Tremaroli V(2), Clemmensen C(3), Kovatcheva-Datchary P(2), Myronovych
A(4), Karns R(5), Wilson-Pérez HE(1), Sandoval DA(1), Kohli R(4), Bäckhed F(6),
Seeley RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio 45237, USA.
(2)Wallenberg Laboratory, Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine and
Sahlgrenska Center for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research, University of
Gothenburg, S-413 45 Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)1] Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and
Metabolism, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio 45237, USA [2] Department 
of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences,
University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 2, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and
Nutrition, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229,
USA.
(5)Divison of Biomedical Informatics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA.
(6)1] Wallenberg Laboratory, Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine and
Sahlgrenska Center for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research, University of
Gothenburg, S-413 45 Gothenburg, Sweden [2] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for
Basic Metabolic Research, Section for Metabolic Receptology and
Enteroendocrinology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, DK-2200, Denmark.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 May;11(5):267.

Bariatric surgical procedures, such as vertical sleeve gastrectomy (VSG), are at 
present the most effective therapy for the treatment of obesity, and are
associated with considerable improvements in co-morbidities, including type-2
diabetes mellitus. The underlying molecular mechanisms contributing to these
benefits remain largely undetermined, despite offering the potential to reveal
new targets for therapeutic intervention. Substantial changes in circulating
total bile acids are known to occur after VSG. Moreover, bile acids are known to 
regulate metabolism by binding to the nuclear receptor FXR (farsenoid-X receptor,
also known as NR1H4). We therefore examined the results of VSG surgery applied to
mice with diet-induced obesity and targeted genetic disruption of FXR. Here we
demonstrate that the therapeutic value of VSG does not result from mechanical
restriction imposed by a smaller stomach. Rather, VSG is associated with
increased circulating bile acids, and associated changes to gut microbial
communities. Moreover, in the absence of FXR, the ability of VSG to reduce body
weight and improve glucose tolerance is substantially reduced. These results
point to bile acids and FXR signalling as an important molecular underpinning for
the beneficial effects of this weight-loss surgery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13135 
PMCID: PMC4016120
PMID: 24670636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):119-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13288.

Agonist-bound structure of the human P2Y12 receptor.

Zhang J(1), Zhang K(1), Gao ZG(2), Paoletta S(2), Zhang D(3), Han GW(4), Li T(3),
Ma L(3), Zhang W(3), Müller CE(5), Yang H(6), Jiang H(6), Cherezov V(4), Katritch
V(4), Jacobson KA(2), Stevens RC(7), Wu B(3), Zhao Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] CAS Key Laboratory of Receptor Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 555 Zuchongzhi Road, Pudong, Shanghai
201203, China [2].
(2)Molecular Recognition Section, Laboratory of Bioorganic Chemistry, National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Receptor Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 555 Zuchongzhi Road, Pudong, Shanghai 201203, China.
(4)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.
(5)PharmaCenter Bonn, University of Bonn, Pharmaceutical Chemistry I, An der
Immenburg 4, D-53121 Bonn, Germany.
(6)Drug Discovery and Design Center, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 555 Zuchongzhi Road, Pudong, Shanghai 201203, China.
(7)1] Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA [2] iHuman Institute, ShanghaiTech University, 99 Haike Road, Pudong,
Shanghai 201203, China.

The P2Y12 receptor (P2Y12R), one of eight members of the P2YR family expressed in
humans, is one of the most prominent clinical drug targets for inhibition of
platelet aggregation. Although mutagenesis and modelling studies of the P2Y12R
provided useful insights into ligand binding, the agonist and antagonist
recognition and function at the P2Y12R remain poorly understood at the molecular 
level. Here we report the structures of the human P2Y12R in complex with the full
agonist 2-methylthio-adenosine-5'-diphosphate (2MeSADP, a close analogue of
endogenous agonist ADP) at 2.5 Å resolution, and the corresponding ATP derivative
2-methylthio-adenosine-5'-triphosphate (2MeSATP) at 3.1 Å resolution. These
structures, together with the structure of the P2Y12R with antagonist ethyl
6-(4-((benzylsulfonyl)carbamoyl)piperidin-1-yl)-5-cyano-2-methylnicotinate
(AZD1283), reveal striking conformational changes between nucleotide and
non-nucleotide ligand complexes in the extracellular regions. Further analysis of
these changes provides insight into a distinct ligand binding landscape in the
δ-group of class A G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Agonist and
non-nucleotide antagonist adopt different orientations in the P2Y12R, with only
partially overlapped binding pockets. The agonist-bound P2Y12R structure answers 
long-standing questions surrounding P2Y12R-agonist recognition, and reveals
interactions with several residues that had not been reported to be involved in
agonist binding. As a first example, to our knowledge, of a GPCR in which agonist
access to the binding pocket requires large-scale rearrangements in the highly
malleable extracellular region, the structural and docking studies will therefore
provide invaluable insight into the pharmacology and mechanisms of action of
agonists and different classes of antagonists for the P2Y12R and potentially for 
other closely related P2YRs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13288 
PMCID: PMC4128917
PMID: 24784220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):81-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13245.

Electrical conductivity during incipient melting in the oceanic low-velocity
zone.

Sifré D(1), Gardés E(2), Massuyeau M(1), Hashim L(1), Hier-Majumder S(3),
Gaillard F(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Université d'Orléans, Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans (ISTO),
Unité mixte de recherche (UMR) 7327, 45071 Orléans, France [2] Centre National de
la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS)/ISTO, UMR 7327, 45071 Orléans, France [3] Bureau
des Recherches Géologiques et Minières, ISTO, UMR 7327, BP 36009, 45060 Orléans, 
France.
(2)1] Université d'Orléans, Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans (ISTO),
Unité mixte de recherche (UMR) 7327, 45071 Orléans, France [2] Centre National de
la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS)/ISTO, UMR 7327, 45071 Orléans, France [3] Bureau
des Recherches Géologiques et Minières, ISTO, UMR 7327, BP 36009, 45060 Orléans, 
France [4] Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique-CNRS-École nationale supérieure
d'ingénieurs de Caen-Université de Caen Basse Normandie, Centre de Recherche sur 
les Ions, les Matériaux et la Photonique, UMR 6252, BP 5133, 14070 Caen, France.
(3)1] Université d'Orléans, Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans (ISTO),
Unité mixte de recherche (UMR) 7327, 45071 Orléans, France [2] Centre National de
la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS)/ISTO, UMR 7327, 45071 Orléans, France [3] Bureau
des Recherches Géologiques et Minières, ISTO, UMR 7327, BP 36009, 45060 Orléans, 
France [4] Department of Geology and Center for Scientific Computation and
Applied Mathematical Modeling, University of Maryland, Maryland 20742, USA [5]
Department of Earth Sciences, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham TW20
0EX, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):40-1.

The low-viscosity layer in the upper mantle, the asthenosphere, is a requirement 
for plate tectonics. The seismic low velocities and the high electrical
conductivities of the asthenosphere are attributed either to subsolidus,
water-related defects in olivine minerals or to a few volume per cent of partial 
melt, but these two interpretations have two shortcomings. First, the amount of
water stored in olivine is not expected to be higher than 50 parts per million
owing to partitioning with other mantle phases (including pargasite amphibole at 
moderate temperatures) and partial melting at high temperatures. Second, elevated
melt volume fractions are impeded by the temperatures prevailing in the
asthenosphere, which are too low, and by the melt mobility, which is high and can
lead to gravitational segregation. Here we determine the electrical conductivity 
of carbon-dioxide-rich and water-rich melts, typically produced at the onset of
mantle melting. Electrical conductivity increases modestly with moderate amounts 
of water and carbon dioxide, but it increases drastically once the carbon dioxide
content exceeds six weight per cent in the melt. Incipient melts, long-expected
to prevail in the asthenosphere, can therefore produce high electrical
conductivities there. Taking into account variable degrees of depletion of the
mantle in water and carbon dioxide, and their effect on the petrology of
incipient melting, we calculated conductivity profiles across the asthenosphere
for various tectonic plate ages. Several electrical discontinuities are predicted
and match geophysical observations in a consistent petrological and geochemical
framework. In moderately aged plates (more than five million years old),
incipient melts probably trigger both the seismic low velocities and the high
electrical conductivities in the upper part of the asthenosphere, whereas in
young plates, where seamount volcanism occurs, a higher degree of melting is
expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13245 
PMCID: PMC4010644
PMID: 24784219 


655. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):76-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13196.

North Atlantic forcing of tropical Indian Ocean climate.

Mohtadi M(1), Prange M(1), Oppo DW(2), De Pol-Holz R(3), Merkel U(1), Zhang X(1),
Steinke S(1), Lückge A(4).

Author information: 
(1)MARUM-Center for Marine Environmental Sciences, University of Bremen, 28359
Bremen, Germany.
(2)Geology and Geophysics, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole,
Massachusetts 02543, USA.
(3)Department of Oceanography, University of Concepción, Concepción, Chile.
(4)Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources, 30655 Hannover,
Germany.

The response of the tropical climate in the Indian Ocean realm to abrupt climate 
change events in the North Atlantic Ocean is contentious. Repositioning of the
intertropical convergence zone is thought to have been responsible for changes in
tropical hydroclimate during North Atlantic cold spells, but the dearth of
high-resolution records outside the monsoon realm in the Indian Ocean precludes a
full understanding of this remote relationship and its underlying mechanisms.
Here we show that slowdowns of the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation
during Heinrich stadials and the Younger Dryas stadial affected the tropical
Indian Ocean hydroclimate through changes to the Hadley circulation including a
southward shift in the rising branch (the intertropical convergence zone) and an 
overall weakening over the southern Indian Ocean. Our results are based on new,
high-resolution sea surface temperature and seawater oxygen isotope records of
well-dated sedimentary archives from the tropical eastern Indian Ocean for the
past 45,000 years, combined with climate model simulations of Atlantic
circulation slowdown under Marine Isotope Stages 2 and 3 boundary conditions.
Similar conditions in the east and west of the basin rule out a zonal dipole
structure as the dominant forcing of the tropical Indian Ocean hydroclimate of
millennial-scale events. Results from our simulations and proxy data suggest dry 
conditions in the northern Indian Ocean realm and wet and warm conditions in the 
southern realm during North Atlantic cold spells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13196 
PMID: 24784218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):66-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13191.

Molecular photons interfaced with alkali atoms.

Siyushev P(1), Stein G(1), Wrachtrup J(2), Gerhardt I(2).

Author information: 
(1)3. Physikalisches Institut, Universität Stuttgart, Stuttgart Research Center
of Photonic Engineering (SCoPE), and the Center for Integrated Quantum Science
and Technology (IQST), Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.
(2)1] 3. Physikalisches Institut, Universität Stuttgart, Stuttgart Research
Center of Photonic Engineering (SCoPE), and the Center for Integrated Quantum
Science and Technology (IQST), Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany [2]
Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research, Heisenbergstraße 1, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany.

Future quantum communication will rely on the integration of single-photon
sources, quantum memories and systems with strong single-photon nonlinearities.
Two key parameters are crucial for the single-photon source: a high photon flux
with a very small bandwidth, and a spectral match to other components of the
system. Atoms or ions may act as single-photon sources--owing to their narrowband
emission and their intrinsic spectral match to other atomic systems--and can
serve as quantum nonlinear elements. Unfortunately, their emission rates are
still limited, even for highly efficient cavity designs. Single solid-state
emitters such as single organic dye molecules are significantly brighter and
allow for narrowband photons; they have shown potential in a variety of quantum
optical experiments but have yet to be interfaced with other components such as
stationary memory qubits. Here we describe the optical interaction between
Fourier-limited photons from a single organic molecule and atomic alkali vapours,
which can constitute an efficient quantum memory. Single-photon emission rates
reach up to several hundred thousand counts per second and show a high spectral
brightness of 30,000 detectable photons per second per megahertz of bandwidth.
The molecular emission is robust and we demonstrate perfect tuning to the
spectral transitions of the sodium D line and efficient filtering, even for
emitters at ambient conditions. In addition, we achieve storage of molecular
photons originating from a single dibenzanthanthrene molecule in atomic sodium
vapour. Given the large set of molecular emission lines matching to atomic
transitions, our results enable the combination of almost ideal single-photon
sources with various atomic vapours, such that experiments with giant
single-photon nonlinearities, mediated, for example, by Rydberg atoms, become
feasible.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13191 
PMID: 24784217 


657. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):63-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13253.

Fast spin of the young extrasolar planet β Pictoris b.

Snellen IA(1), Brandl BR(1), de Kok RJ(2), Brogi M(1), Birkby J(1), Schwarz H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands.
(2)1] Leiden Observatory, Leiden University, Postbus 9513, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands [2] Netherlands Institute for Space Research (SRON), Sorbonnelaan 2, 
3584 CA Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):41-2.

The spin of a planet arises from the accretion of angular momentum during its
formation, but the details of this process are still unclear. In the Solar
System, the equatorial rotation velocities and, consequently, spin angular
momenta of most of the planets increase with planetary mass; the exceptions to
this trend are Mercury and Venus, which, since formation, have significantly spun
down because of tidal interactions. Here we report near-infrared spectroscopic
observations, at a resolving power of 100,000, of the young extrasolar gas giant 
planet β Pictoris b (refs 7, 8). The absorption signal from carbon monoxide in
the planet's thermal spectrum is found to be blueshifted with respect to that
from the parent star by approximately 15 kilometres per second, consistent with a
circular orbit. The combined line profile exhibits a rotational broadening of
about 25 kilometres per second, meaning that β Pictoris b spins significantly
faster than any planet in the Solar System, in line with the extrapolation of the
known trend in spin velocity with planet mass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13253 
PMID: 24784216 


658. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):43-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13276.

Presynaptic inhibition of spinal sensory feedback ensures smooth movement.

Fink AJ(1), Croce KR(1), Huang ZJ(2), Abbott LF(3), Jessell TM(1), Azim E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Kavli Institute for Brain Science, Mortimer
B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, Departments of Neuroscience and
Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA.
(2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
(3)Center for Theoretical Neuroscience, Departments of Physiology and
Neuroscience, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):38-9.

The precision of skilled movement depends on sensory feedback and its refinement 
by local inhibitory microcircuits. One specialized set of spinal GABAergic
interneurons forms axo-axonic contacts with the central terminals of sensory
afferents, exerting presynaptic inhibitory control over sensory-motor
transmission. The inability to achieve selective access to the GABAergic neurons 
responsible for this unorthodox inhibitory mechanism has left unresolved the
contribution of presynaptic inhibition to motor behaviour. We used Gad2 as a
genetic entry point to manipulate the interneurons that contact sensory
terminals, and show that activation of these interneurons in mice elicits the
defining physiological characteristics of presynaptic inhibition. Selective
genetic ablation of Gad2-expressing interneurons severely perturbs goal-directed 
reaching movements, uncovering a pronounced and stereotypic forelimb motor
oscillation, the core features of which are captured by modelling the
consequences of sensory feedback at high gain. Our findings define the neural
substrate of a genetically hardwired gain control system crucial for the smooth
execution of movement.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13276 
PMCID: PMC4292914
PMID: 24784215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):86-90. doi: 10.1038/nature13265. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Widespread decline of Congo rainforest greenness in the past decade.

Zhou L(1), Tian Y(2), Myneni RB(3), Ciais P(4), Saatchi S(5), Liu YY(6), Piao
S(7), Chen H(8), Vermote EF(9), Song C(10), Hwang T(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Atmospheric and Environmental Sciences, University at Albany,
State University of New York (SUNY), Albany, New York 12222, USA.
(2)I. M. Systems Group (IMSG), National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration/National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information
Service/The Center for Satellite Applications and Research (NOAA/NESDIS/STAR),
5830 University Research Court, College Park, Maryland 20740, USA.
(3)Department of Earth and Environment, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 
02215, USA.
(4)Laboratoire des Sciences du Climat et de l'Environnement (LSCE),
CEA-CNRS-UVSQ, 91191 Gif sur Yvette Cedex, France.
(5)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, California 91109, USA.
(6)ARC Centre of Excellence for Climate Systems Science & Climate Change Research
Centre, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia.
(7)Department of Ecology, College of Urban and Environmental Sciences, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, China.
(8)Key Laboratory of Meteorological Disaster, Ministry of Education, Nanjing
University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing 210044, China.
(9)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Code 619, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(10)1] Department of Geography, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 29599, USA [2] School of Forestry and Landscape
Architecture, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui 230036, China.
(11)Institute for the Environment, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 29599, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):36-7.

Tropical forests are global epicentres of biodiversity and important modulators
of climate change, and are mainly constrained by rainfall patterns. The severe
short-term droughts that occurred recently in Amazonia have drawn attention to
the vulnerability of tropical forests to climatic disturbances. The central
African rainforests, the second-largest on Earth, have experienced a long-term
drying trend whose impacts on vegetation dynamics remain mostly unknown because
in situ observations are very limited. The Congolese forest, with its drier
conditions and higher percentage of semi-evergreen trees, may be more tolerant to
short-term rainfall reduction than are wetter tropical forests, but for a
long-term drought there may be critical thresholds of water availability below
which higher-biomass, closed-canopy forests transition to more open,
lower-biomass forests. Here we present observational evidence for a widespread
decline in forest greenness over the past decade based on analyses of satellite
data (optical, thermal, microwave and gravity) from several independent sensors
over the Congo basin. This decline in vegetation greenness, particularly in the
northern Congolese forest, is generally consistent with decreases in rainfall,
terrestrial water storage, water content in aboveground woody and leaf biomass,
and the canopy backscatter anomaly caused by changes in structure and moisture in
upper forest layers. It is also consistent with increases in photosynthetically
active radiation and land surface temperature. These multiple lines of evidence
indicate that this large-scale vegetation browning, or loss of photosynthetic
capacity, may be partially attributable to the long-term drying trend. Our
results suggest that a continued gradual decline of photosynthetic capacity and
moisture content driven by the persistent drying trend could alter the
composition and structure of the Congolese forest to favour the spread of
drought-tolerant species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13265 
PMID: 24759324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):71-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13189. Epub 2014 Apr 20.

Spontaneous transfer of chirality in an atropisomerically enriched two-axis
system.

Barrett KT(1), Metrano AJ(1), Rablen PR(2), Miller SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Yale University, PO Box 208107, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520-8107, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore,
Pennsylvania 19081-1397, USA.

One of the most well-recognized stereogenic elements in a chiral molecule is an
sp(3)-hybridized carbon atom that is connected to four different substituents.
Axes of chirality can also exist about bonds with hindered barriers of rotation; 
molecules containing such axes are known as atropisomers. Understanding the
dynamics of these systems can be useful, for example, in the design of
single-atropisomer drugs or molecular switches and motors. For molecules that
exhibit a single axis of chirality, rotation about that axis leads to
racemization as the system reaches equilibrium. Here we report a two-axis system 
for which an enantioselective reaction produces four stereoisomers (two
enantiomeric pairs): following a catalytic asymmetric transformation, we observe 
a kinetically controlled product distribution that is perturbed from the system's
equilibrium position. As the system undergoes isomerization, one of the
diastereomeric pairs drifts spontaneously to a higher enantiomeric ratio. In a
compensatory manner, the enantiomeric ratio of the other diastereomeric pair
decreases. These observations are made for a class of unsymmetrical amides that
exhibits two asymmetric axes--one axis is defined through a benzamide
substructure, and the other axis is associated with differentially
N,N-disubstituted amides. The stereodynamics of these substrates provides an
opportunity to observe a curious interplay of kinetics and thermodynamics
intrinsic to a system of stereoisomers that is constrained to a situation of
partial equilibrium.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13189 
PMCID: PMC4008667
PMID: 24747399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):105-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13148. Epub 2014 Mar 30.

Quantitative proteomics identifies NCOA4 as the cargo receptor mediating
ferritinophagy.

Mancias JD(1), Wang X(2), Gygi SP(3), Harper JW(3), Kimmelman AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Genomic Stability and DNA Repair, Department of Radiation
Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2]
Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA [3] Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4] 
Department of Radiation Oncology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)Division of Genomic Stability and DNA Repair, Department of Radiation
Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(3)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Jul;24(7):783-4.

Autophagy, the process by which proteins and organelles are sequestered in
double-membrane structures called autophagosomes and delivered to lysosomes for
degradation, is critical in diseases such as cancer and neurodegeneration. Much
of our understanding of this process has emerged from analysis of bulk
cytoplasmic autophagy, but our understanding of how specific cargo, including
organelles, proteins or intracellular pathogens, are targeted for selective
autophagy is limited. Here we use quantitative proteomics to identify a cohort of
novel and known autophagosome-enriched proteins in human cells, including cargo
receptors. Like known cargo receptors, nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4) was
highly enriched in autophagosomes, and associated with ATG8 proteins that recruit
cargo-receptor complexes into autophagosomes. Unbiased identification of
NCOA4-associated proteins revealed ferritin heavy and light chains, components of
an iron-filled cage structure that protects cells from reactive iron species but 
is degraded via autophagy to release iron through an unknown mechanism. We found 
that delivery of ferritin to lysosomes required NCOA4, and an inability of
NCOA4-deficient cells to degrade ferritin led to decreased bioavailable
intracellular iron. This work identifies NCOA4 as a selective cargo receptor for 
autophagic turnover of ferritin (ferritinophagy), which is critical for iron
homeostasis, and provides a resource for further dissection of autophagosomal
cargo-receptor connectivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13148 
PMCID: PMC4180099
PMID: 24695223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):49-54. doi: 10.1038/nature13035. Epub 2014 Mar 9.

Haematopoietic stem cells require a highly regulated protein synthesis rate.

Signer RA(1), Magee JA(1), Salic A(2), Morrison SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Children's Research Institute, Department of 
Pediatrics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390,
USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Apr 3;14(4):423-4.

Many aspects of cellular physiology remain unstudied in somatic stem cells, for
example, there are almost no data on protein synthesis in any somatic stem cell. 
Here we set out to compare protein synthesis in haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) 
and restricted haematopoietic progenitors. We found that the amount of protein
synthesized per hour in HSCs in vivo was lower than in most other haematopoietic 
cells, even if we controlled for differences in cell cycle status or forced HSCs 
to undergo self-renewing divisions. Reduced ribosome function in Rpl24(Bst/+)
mice further reduced protein synthesis in HSCs and impaired HSC function. Pten
deletion increased protein synthesis in HSCs but also reduced HSC function.
Rpl24(Bst/+) cell-autonomously rescued the effects of Pten deletion in HSCs;
blocking the increase in protein synthesis, restoring HSC function, and delaying 
leukaemogenesis. Pten deficiency thus depletes HSCs and promotes leukaemia partly
by increasing protein synthesis. Either increased or decreased protein synthesis 
impairs HSC function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13035 
PMCID: PMC4015626
PMID: 24670665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):101-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13134. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Nuclear reprogramming by interphase cytoplasm of two-cell mouse embryos.

Kang E(1), Wu G(2), Ma H(1), Li Y(1), Tippner-Hedges R(1), Tachibana M(3),
Sparman M(1), Wolf DP(1), Schöler HR(2), Mitalipov S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate
Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, Beaverton, Oregon 97006,
USA.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Biomedicine, Münster 48149, Germany.
(3)1] Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National
Primate Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, Beaverton, Oregon
97006, USA [2] South Miyagi Medical Center, Miyagi 989-1253, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Dec;516(7530):276.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2014 May;11(5):472-3.

Successful mammalian cloning using somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) into
unfertilized, metaphase II (MII)-arrested oocytes attests to the cytoplasmic
presence of reprogramming factors capable of inducing totipotency in somatic cell
nuclei. However, these poorly defined maternal factors presumably decline sharply
after fertilization, as the cytoplasm of pronuclear-stage zygotes is reportedly
inactive. Recent evidence suggests that zygotic cytoplasm, if maintained at
metaphase, can also support derivation of embryonic stem (ES) cells after SCNT,
albeit at low efficiency. This led to the conclusion that critical oocyte
reprogramming factors present in the metaphase but not in the interphase
cytoplasm are 'trapped' inside the nucleus during interphase and effectively
removed during enucleation. Here we investigated the presence of reprogramming
activity in the cytoplasm of interphase two-cell mouse embryos (I2C). First, the 
presence of candidate reprogramming factors was documented in both intact and
enucleated metaphase and interphase zygotes and two-cell embryos. Consequently,
enucleation did not provide a likely explanation for the inability of interphase 
cytoplasm to induce reprogramming. Second, when we carefully synchronized the
cell cycle stage between the transplanted nucleus (ES cell, fetal fibroblast or
terminally differentiated cumulus cell) and the recipient I2C cytoplasm, the
reconstructed SCNT embryos developed into blastocysts and ES cells capable of
contributing to traditional germline and tetraploid chimaeras. Last, direct
transfer of cloned embryos, reconstructed with ES cell nuclei, into recipients
resulted in live offspring. Thus, the cytoplasm of I2C supports efficient
reprogramming, with cell cycle synchronization between the donor nucleus and
recipient cytoplasm as the most critical parameter determining success. The
ability to use interphase cytoplasm in SCNT could aid efforts to generate
autologous human ES cells for regenerative applications, as donated or discarded 
embryos are more accessible than unfertilized MII oocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13134 
PMCID: PMC4124901
PMID: 24670652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):91-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13176. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Identification of genomic alterations in oesophageal squamous cell cancer.

Song Y(1), Li L(2), Ou Y(3), Gao Z(2), Li E(4), Li X(2), Zhang W(5), Wang J(6),
Xu L(7), Zhou Y(6), Ma X(5), Liu L(5), Zhao Z(5), Huang X(6), Fan J(5), Dong
L(5), Chen G(6), Ma L(5), Yang J(6), Chen L(6), He M(6), Li M(6), Zhuang X(6),
Huang K(6), Qiu K(6), Yin G(6), Guo G(6), Feng Q(6), Chen P(6), Wu Z(8), Wu J(9),
Ma L(5), Zhao J(6), Luo L(6), Fu M(5), Xu B(10), Chen B(7), Li Y(6), Tong T(5),
Wang M(5), Liu Z(5), Lin D(5), Zhang X(6), Yang H(6), Wang J(6), Zhan Q(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Cancer Institute and Cancer
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing 100021, China [2].
(2)1] BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, Guangdong 518083, China [2].
(3)1] State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Cancer Institute and Cancer
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing 100021, China [2] Department of Neurosurgery, Chinese PLA General
Hospital, Beijing 100853, China [3].
(4)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The Key Laboratory of
Molecular Biology for High Cancer Incidence Coastal Chaoshan Area, Shantou
University Medical College, Shantou 515041, Guangdong, China [2].
(5)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Cancer Institute and Cancer
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing 100021, China.
(6)BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518083, Guangdong 518083, China.
(7)Institute of Oncologic Pathology, Shantou University Medical College, Shantou 
515041, Guangdong, China.
(8)Department of Tumor Surgery, Shantou Central Hospital, Affiliated Shantou
Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, Shantou 515041, Guangdong, China.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The Key Laboratory of
Molecular Biology for High Cancer Incidence Coastal Chaoshan Area, Shantou
University Medical College, Shantou 515041, Guangdong, China.
(10)Department of Neurosurgery, Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing 100853,
China.

Oesophageal cancer is one of the most aggressive cancers and is the sixth leading
cause of cancer death worldwide. Approximately 70% of global oesophageal cancer
cases occur in China, with oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) being the
histopathological form in the vast majority of cases (>90%). Currently, there are
limited clinical approaches for the early diagnosis and treatment of ESCC,
resulting in a 10% five-year survival rate for patients. However, the full
repertoire of genomic events leading to the pathogenesis of ESCC remains unclear.
Here we describe a comprehensive genomic analysis of 158 ESCC cases, as part of
the International Cancer Genome Consortium research project. We conducted
whole-genome sequencing in 17 ESCC cases and whole-exome sequencing in 71 cases, 
of which 53 cases, plus an additional 70 ESCC cases not used in the whole-genome 
and whole-exome sequencing, were subjected to array comparative genomic
hybridization analysis. We identified eight significantly mutated genes, of which
six are well known tumour-associated genes (TP53, RB1, CDKN2A, PIK3CA, NOTCH1,
NFE2L2), and two have not previously been described in ESCC (ADAM29 and FAM135B).
Notably, FAM135B is identified as a novel cancer-implicated gene as assayed for
its ability to promote malignancy of ESCC cells. Additionally, MIR548K, a
microRNA encoded in the amplified 11q13.3-13.4 region, is characterized as a
novel oncogene, and functional assays demonstrate that MIR548K enhances malignant
phenotypes of ESCC cells. Moreover, we have found that several important histone 
regulator genes (MLL2 (also called KMT2D), ASH1L, MLL3 (KMT2C), SETD1B, CREBBP
and EP300) are frequently altered in ESCC. Pathway assessment reveals that
somatic aberrations are mainly involved in the Wnt, cell cycle and Notch
pathways. Genomic analyses suggest that ESCC and head and neck squamous cell
carcinoma share some common pathogenic mechanisms, and ESCC development is
associated with alcohol drinking. This study has explored novel biological
markers and tumorigenic pathways that would greatly improve therapeutic
strategies for ESCC.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13176 
PMID: 24670651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):115-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13083. Epub 2014 Mar 23.

Structure of the human P2Y12 receptor in complex with an antithrombotic drug.

Zhang K(1), Zhang J(1), Gao ZG(2), Zhang D(3), Zhu L(3), Han GW(4), Moss SM(2),
Paoletta S(2), Kiselev E(2), Lu W(3), Fenalti G(4), Zhang W(3), Müller CE(5),
Yang H(6), Jiang H(6), Cherezov V(4), Katritch V(4), Jacobson KA(2), Stevens
RC(7), Wu B(3), Zhao Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] CAS Key Laboratory of Receptor Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 555 Zuchongzhi Road, Pudong, Shanghai
201203, China [2].
(2)Molecular Recognition Section, Laboratory of Bioorganic Chemistry, National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Receptor Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 555 Zuchongzhi Road, Pudong, Shanghai 201203, China.
(4)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.
(5)PharmaCenter Bonn, Pharmaceutical Institute, Pharmaceutical Chemistry I, An
der Immenburg 4, D-53121 Bonn, Germany.
(6)Drug Discovery and Design Center, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 555 Zuchongzhi Road, Pudong, Shanghai 201203, China.
(7)1] Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA [2] iHuman Institute, ShanghaiTech University, 99 Haike Road, Pudong,
Shanghai 201203, China.

P2Y receptors (P2YRs), a family of purinergic G-protein-coupled receptors
(GPCRs), are activated by extracellular nucleotides. There are a total of eight
distinct functional P2YRs expressed in human, which are subdivided into P2Y1-like
receptors and P2Y12-like receptors. Their ligands are generally charged molecules
with relatively low bioavailability and stability in vivo, which limits our
understanding of this receptor family. P2Y12R regulates platelet activation and
thrombus formation, and several antithrombotic drugs targeting P2Y12R--including 
the prodrugs clopidogrel (Plavix) and prasugrel (Effient) that are metabolized
and bind covalently, and the nucleoside analogue ticagrelor (Brilinta) that acts 
directly on the receptor--have been approved for the prevention of stroke and
myocardial infarction. However, limitations of these drugs (for example, a very
long half-life of clopidogrel action and a characteristic adverse effect profile 
of ticagrelor) suggest that there is an unfulfilled medical need for developing a
new generation of P2Y12R inhibitors. Here we report the 2.6 Å resolution crystal 
structure of human P2Y12R in complex with a non-nucleotide reversible antagonist,
AZD1283. The structure reveals a distinct straight conformation of helix V, which
sets P2Y12R apart from all other known class A GPCR structures. With AZD1283
bound, the highly conserved disulphide bridge in GPCRs between helix III and
extracellular loop 2 is not observed and appears to be dynamic. Along with the
details of the AZD1283-binding site, analysis of the extracellular interface
reveals an adjacent ligand-binding region and suggests that both pockets could be
required for dinucleotide binding. The structure provides essential insights for 
the development of improved P2Y12R ligands and allosteric modulators as drug
candidates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13083 
PMCID: PMC4174307
PMID: 24670650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):96-100. doi: 10.1038/nature13136. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Cystathionine γ-lyase deficiency mediates neurodegeneration in Huntington's
disease.

Paul BD(1), Sbodio JI(1), Xu R(2), Vandiver MS(2), Cha JY(1), Snowman AM(1),
Snyder SH(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(2)1] The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Pharmacology
and Molecular Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.
(3)1] The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Pharmacology
and Molecular Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA [3] Department of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins University School
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant disease associated with a mutation 
in the gene encoding huntingtin (Htt) leading to expanded polyglutamine repeats
of mutant Htt (mHtt) that elicit oxidative stress, neurotoxicity, and motor and
behavioural changes. Huntington's disease is characterized by highly selective
and profound damage to the corpus striatum, which regulates motor function.
Striatal selectivity of Huntington's disease may reflect the striatally selective
small G protein Rhes binding to mHtt and enhancing its neurotoxicity. Specific
molecular mechanisms by which mHtt elicits neurodegeneration have been hard to
determine. Here we show a major depletion of cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE), the
biosynthetic enzyme for cysteine, in Huntington's disease tissues, which may
mediate Huntington's disease pathophysiology. The defect occurs at the
transcriptional level and seems to reflect influences of mHtt on specificity
protein 1, a transcriptional activator for CSE. Consistent with the notion of
loss of CSE as a pathogenic mechanism, supplementation with cysteine reverses
abnormalities in cultures of Huntington's disease tissues and in intact mouse
models of Huntington's disease, suggesting therapeutic potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13136 
PMCID: PMC4349202
PMID: 24670645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):55-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13036. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Developmental pathway for potent V1V2-directed HIV-neutralizing antibodies.

Doria-Rose NA(1), Schramm CA(2), Gorman J(1), Moore PL(3), Bhiman JN(4), DeKosky 
BJ(5), Ernandes MJ(6), Georgiev IS(6), Kim HJ(7), Pancera M(6), Staupe RP(6),
Altae-Tran HR(6), Bailer RT(6), Crooks ET(8), Cupo A(9), Druz A(6), Garrett
NJ(10), Hoi KH(11), Kong R(6), Louder MK(6), Longo NS(6), McKee K(6), Nonyane
M(12), O'Dell S(6), Roark RS(6), Rudicell RS(6), Schmidt SD(6), Sheward DJ(13),
Soto C(6), Wibmer CK(4), Yang Y(6), Zhang Z(14); NISC Comparative Sequencing
Program, Mullikin JC(15), Binley JM(8), Sanders RW(16), Wilson IA(17), Moore
JP(9), Ward AB(7), Georgiou G(18), Williamson C(19), Abdool Karim SS(20), Morris 
L(21), Kwong PD(6), Shapiro L(22), Mascola JR(6).

Collaborators: Becker J, Benjamin B, Blakesley R, Bouffard G, Brooks S, Coleman
H, Dekhtyar M, Gregory M, Guan X, Gupta J, Han J, Hargrove A, Ho SL, Johnson T,
Legaspi R, Lovett S, Maduro Q, Masiello C, Maskeri B, McDowell J, Montemayor C,
Mullikin J, Park M, Riebow N, Schandler K, Schmidt B, Sison C, Stantripop M,
Thomas J, Thomas P, Vemulapalli M, Young A.

Author information: 
(1)1] Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, 
USA [2].
(3)1] Center for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases of
the National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), Johannesburg, 2131, South Africa
[2] Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg,
2050, South Africa [3] Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa 
(CAPRISA), University of KwaZulu-Natal, Congella, 4013, South Africa [4].
(4)1] Center for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases of
the National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), Johannesburg, 2131, South Africa
[2] Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg,
2050, South Africa.
(5)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, Austin,
Texas 78712, USA.
(6)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(7)1] Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Center for HIV/AIDS
Vaccine Immunology and Immunogen Discovery, The Scripps Research Institute, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA [3] IAVI Neutralizing Antibody Center, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(8)Torrey Pines Institute, San Diego, California 92037, USA.
(9)Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(10)Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA),
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Congella, 4013, South Africa.
(11)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, 
Texas, USA.
(12)Center for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases of the 
National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), Johannesburg, 2131, South Africa.
(13)Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular Medicine, Division of Medical 
Virology, University of Cape Town and NHLS, Cape Town 7701, South Africa.
(14)Department of Biochemistry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032,
USA.
(15)1] NISC Comparative Sequencing program, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2] NIH Intramural Sequencing Center, National
Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.
(16)Department of Medical Microbiology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam 1105
AZ, Netherlands.
(17)1] Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The
Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] Center for
HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology and Immunogen Discovery, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [3] IAVI Neutralizing Antibody Center,
The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [4] Skaggs
Institute for Chemical Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.
(18)1] Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, Austin,
Texas 78712, USA [2] Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Texas at
Austin, Austin, Texas, USA [3] Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(19)1] Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA),
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Congella, 4013, South Africa [2] Institute of
Infectious Diseases and Molecular Medicine, Division of Medical Virology,
University of Cape Town and NHLS, Cape Town 7701, South Africa.
(20)1] Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA),
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Congella, 4013, South Africa [2] Department of
Epidemiology, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(21)1] Center for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases of
the National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS), Johannesburg, 2131, South Africa
[2] Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg,
2050, South Africa [3] Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa 
(CAPRISA), University of KwaZulu-Natal, Congella, 4013, South Africa.
(22)1] Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2]
Department of Biochemistry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Antibodies capable of neutralizing HIV-1 often target variable regions 1 and 2
(V1V2) of the HIV-1 envelope, but the mechanism of their elicitation has been
unclear. Here we define the developmental pathway by which such antibodies are
generated and acquire the requisite molecular characteristics for neutralization.
Twelve somatically related neutralizing antibodies (CAP256-VRC26.01-12) were
isolated from donor CAP256 (from the Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in
South Africa (CAPRISA)); each antibody contained the protruding
tyrosine-sulphated, anionic antigen-binding loop (complementarity-determining
region (CDR) H3) characteristic of this category of antibodies. Their unmutated
ancestor emerged between weeks 30-38 post-infection with a 35-residue CDR H3, and
neutralized the virus that superinfected this individual 15 weeks after initial
infection. Improved neutralization breadth and potency occurred by week 59 with
modest affinity maturation, and was preceded by extensive diversification of the 
virus population. HIV-1 V1V2-directed neutralizing antibodies can thus develop
relatively rapidly through initial selection of B cells with a long CDR H3, and
limited subsequent somatic hypermutation. These data provide important insights
relevant to HIV-1 vaccine development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13036 
PMCID: PMC4395007
PMID: 24590074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nature. 2014 May 1;509(7498):110-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13140. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Structural basis for ubiquitin-mediated antiviral signal activation by RIG-I.

Peisley A(1), Wu B(1), Xu H(2), Chen ZJ(3), Hur S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115 USA [2] Program in Cellular and
Molecular Medicine, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(3)1] Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy
Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Jun;24(6):645-6.

Ubiquitin (Ub) has important roles in a wide range of intracellular signalling
pathways. In the conventional view, ubiquitin alters the signalling activity of
the target protein through covalent modification, but accumulating evidence
points to the emerging role of non-covalent interaction between ubiquitin and the
target. In the innate immune signalling pathway of a viral RNA sensor, RIG-I,
both covalent and non-covalent interactions with K63-linked ubiquitin chains
(K63-Ubn) were shown to occur in its signalling domain, a tandem caspase
activation and recruitment domain (hereafter referred to as 2CARD). Non-covalent 
binding of K63-Ubn to 2CARD induces its tetramer formation, a requirement for
downstream signal activation. Here we report the crystal structure of the
tetramer of human RIG-I 2CARD bound by three chains of K63-Ub2. 2CARD assembles
into a helical tetramer resembling a 'lock-washer', in which the tetrameric
surface serves as a signalling platform for recruitment and activation of the
downstream signalling molecule, MAVS. Ubiquitin chains are bound along the outer 
rim of the helical trajectory, bridging adjacent subunits of 2CARD and
stabilizing the 2CARD tetramer. The combination of structural and functional
analyses reveals that binding avidity dictates the K63-linkage and chain-length
specificity of 2CARD, and that covalent ubiquitin conjugation of 2CARD further
stabilizes the Ub-2CARD interaction and thus the 2CARD tetramer. Our work
provides unique insights into the novel types of ubiquitin-mediated
signal-activation mechanism, and previously unexpected synergism between the
covalent and non-covalent ubiquitin interaction modes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13140 
PMCID: PMC6136653
PMID: 24590070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):508-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13174.

Hybrid shallow on-axis and deep off-axis hydrothermal circulation at
fast-spreading ridges.

Hasenclever J(1), Theissen-Krah S(2), Rüpke LH(1), Morgan JP(3), Iyer K(1),
Petersen S(1), Devey CW(1).

Author information: 
(1)GEOMAR, Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, Wischhofstraße 1-3, 24148
Kiel, Germany.
(2)Department of Geosciences and Centre for Earth Evolution and Dynamics (CEED), 
University of Oslo, PO Box 1048, Blindern, 0316 Oslo, Norway.
(3)Department of Earth Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham,
Surrey TW20 0EX, UK.

Hydrothermal flow at oceanic spreading centres accounts for about ten per cent of
all heat flux in the oceans and controls the thermal structure of young oceanic
plates. It also influences ocean and crustal chemistry, provides a basis for
chemosynthetic ecosystems, and has formed massive sulphide ore deposits
throughout Earth's history. Despite this, how and under what conditions heat is
extracted, in particular from the lower crust, remains largely unclear. Here we
present high-resolution, whole-crust, two- and three-dimensional simulations of
hydrothermal flow beneath fast-spreading ridges that predict the existence of two
interacting flow components, controlled by different physical mechanisms, that
merge above the melt lens to feed ridge-centred vent sites. Shallow on-axis flow 
structures develop owing to the thermodynamic properties of water, whereas deeper
off-axis flow is strongly shaped by crustal permeability, particularly the
brittle-ductile transition. About 60 per cent of the discharging fluid mass is
replenished on-axis by warm (up to 300 degrees Celsius) recharge flow surrounding
the hot thermal plumes, and the remaining 40 per cent or so occurs as colder and 
broader recharge up to several kilometres away from the axis that feeds hot
(500-700 degrees Celsius) deep-rooted off-axis flow towards the ridge. Despite
its lower contribution to the total mass flux, this deep off-axis flow carries
about 70 per cent of the thermal energy released at the ridge axis. This
combination of two flow components explains the seismically determined thermal
structure of the crust and reconciles previously incompatible models favouring
either shallower on-axis or deeper off-axis hydrothermal circulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13174 
PMID: 24759413 


670. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):500-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13171.

Superconducting quantum circuits at the surface code threshold for fault
tolerance.

Barends R(1), Kelly J(1), Megrant A(2), Veitia A(3), Sank D(2), Jeffrey E(2),
White TC(2), Mutus J(2), Fowler AG(4), Campbell B(2), Chen Y(2), Chen Z(2),
Chiaro B(2), Dunsworth A(2), Neill C(2), O'Malley P(2), Roushan P(2), Vainsencher
A(2), Wenner J(2), Korotkov AN(3), Cleland AN(2), Martinis JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 
93106, USA [2].
(2)Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California
93106, USA.
(3)Department of Electrical Engineering, University of California, Riverside,
California 92521, USA.
(4)1] Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 
93106, USA [2] Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology,
School of Physics, The University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia.

A quantum computer can solve hard problems, such as prime factoring, database
searching and quantum simulation, at the cost of needing to protect fragile
quantum states from error. Quantum error correction provides this protection by
distributing a logical state among many physical quantum bits (qubits) by means
of quantum entanglement. Superconductivity is a useful phenomenon in this regard,
because it allows the construction of large quantum circuits and is compatible
with microfabrication. For superconducting qubits, the surface code approach to
quantum computing is a natural choice for error correction, because it uses only 
nearest-neighbour coupling and rapidly cycled entangling gates. The gate fidelity
requirements are modest: the per-step fidelity threshold is only about 99 per
cent. Here we demonstrate a universal set of logic gates in a superconducting
multi-qubit processor, achieving an average single-qubit gate fidelity of 99.92
per cent and a two-qubit gate fidelity of up to 99.4 per cent. This places
Josephson quantum computing at the fault-tolerance threshold for surface code
error correction. Our quantum processor is a first step towards the surface code,
using five qubits arranged in a linear array with nearest-neighbour coupling. As 
a further demonstration, we construct a five-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger
state using the complete circuit and full set of gates. The results demonstrate
that Josephson quantum computing is a high-fidelity technology, with a clear path
to scaling up to large-scale, fault-tolerant quantum circuits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13171 
PMID: 24759412 


671. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):494-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13206.

Mammalian Y chromosomes retain widely expressed dosage-sensitive regulators.

Bellott DW(1), Hughes JF(1), Skaletsky H(1), Brown LG(1), Pyntikova T(1), Cho
TJ(1), Koutseva N(1), Zaghlul S(1), Graves T(2), Rock S(2), Kremitzki C(2),
Fulton RS(2), Dugan S(3), Ding Y(3), Morton D(3), Khan Z(3), Lewis L(3), Buhay
C(3), Wang Q(3), Watt J(3), Holder M(3), Lee S(3), Nazareth L(3), Alföldi J(1),
Rozen S(1), Muzny DM(3), Warren WC(2), Gibbs RA(3), Wilson RK(2), Page DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Whitehead Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, & Department of Biology,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)The Genome Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri 63108, USA.
(3)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):126. Alföldi, Jessica [added].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):463-5.

The human X and Y chromosomes evolved from an ordinary pair of autosomes, but
millions of years ago genetic decay ravaged the Y chromosome, and only three per 
cent of its ancestral genes survived. We reconstructed the evolution of the Y
chromosome across eight mammals to identify biases in gene content and the
selective pressures that preserved the surviving ancestral genes. Our findings
indicate that survival was nonrandom, and in two cases, convergent across
placental and marsupial mammals. We conclude that the gene content of the Y
chromosome became specialized through selection to maintain the ancestral dosage 
of homologous X-Y gene pairs that function as broadly expressed regulators of
transcription, translation and protein stability. We propose that beyond its
roles in testis determination and spermatogenesis, the Y chromosome is essential 
for male viability, and has unappreciated roles in Turner's syndrome and in
phenotypic differences between the sexes in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13206 
PMCID: PMC4139287
PMID: 24759411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):488-93. doi: 10.1038/nature13151.

Origins and functional evolution of Y chromosomes across mammals.

Cortez D(1), Marin R(1), Toledo-Flores D(2), Froidevaux L(3), Liechti A(3),
Waters PD(4), Grützner F(2), Kaessmann H(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland [2] Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)The Robinson Research Institute, School of Molecular and Biomedical Science,
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia 5005, Australia.
(3)Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland.
(4)School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, UNSW Australia, Sydney, New
South Wales 2052, Australia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):463-5.

Y chromosomes underlie sex determination in mammals, but their repeat-rich nature
has hampered sequencing and associated evolutionary studies. Here we trace Y
evolution across 15 representative mammals on the basis of high-throughput genome
and transcriptome sequencing. We uncover three independent sex chromosome
originations in mammals and birds (the outgroup). The original placental and
marsupial (therian) Y, containing the sex-determining gene SRY, emerged in the
therian ancestor approximately 180 million years ago, in parallel with the first 
of five monotreme Y chromosomes, carrying the probable sex-determining gene AMH. 
The avian W chromosome arose approximately 140 million years ago in the bird
ancestor. The small Y/W gene repertoires, enriched in regulatory functions, were 
rapidly defined following stratification (recombination arrest) and erosion
events and have remained considerably stable. Despite expression decreases in
therians, Y/W genes show notable conservation of proto-sex chromosome expression 
patterns, although various Y genes evolved testis-specificities through
differential regulatory decay. Thus, although some genes evolved novel functions 
through spatial/temporal expression shifts, most Y genes probably endured, at
least initially, because of dosage constraints.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13151 
PMID: 24759410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):469-76. doi: 10.1038/nature13127.

Guidelines for investigating causality of sequence variants in human disease.

MacArthur DG(1), Manolio TA(2), Dimmock DP(3), Rehm HL(4), Shendure J(5),
Abecasis GR(6), Adams DR(7), Altman RB(8), Antonarakis SE(9), Ashley EA(10),
Barrett JC(11), Biesecker LG(12), Conrad DF(13), Cooper GM(14), Cox NJ(15), Daly 
MJ(1), Gerstein MB(16), Goldstein DB(17), Hirschhorn JN(18), Leal SM(19),
Pennacchio LA(20), Stamatoyannopoulos JA(21), Sunyaev SR(22), Valle D(23), Voight
BF(24), Winckler W(25), Gunter C(26).

Author information: 
(1)1] Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, 
Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)Division of Genomic Medicine, National Human Genome Research Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(3)Division of Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53226, USA.
(4)1] Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Partners Healthcare Center for
Personalized Genetic Medicine, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Department
of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98115, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan
48109, USA.
(7)1] NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program, National Institutes of Health Office of
Rare Diseases Research and National Human Genome Research Institute, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA [2] Office of the Clinical Director, National Human Genome
Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(8)Departments of Bioengineering & Genetics, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.
(9)1] Department of Genetic Medicine, University of Geneva Medical School, 1211
Geneva, Switzerland [2] iGE3 Institute of Genetics and Genomics of Geneva, 1211
Geneva, Switzerland.
(10)Center for Inherited Cardiovascular Disease, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(11)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1HH, UK.
(12)Genetic Disease Research Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute,
NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(13)Departments of Genetics, Pathology and Immunology, Washington University
School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(14)HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 601 Genome Way, Huntsville, Alabama 
35806, USA.
(15)Section of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(16)1] Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale University, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA [2] Departments of Computer Science, Molecular
Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.
(17)Center for Human Genome Variation, Duke University School of Medicine,
Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.
(18)1] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and
MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Divisions of Genetics and
Endocrinology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(19)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(20)1] Genomics Division, MS 84-171, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] US Department of Energy Joint Genome
Institute, Walnut Creek, California 94598, USA.
(21)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, 1705 Northeast
Pacific Street, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(22)1] Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(23)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA.
(24)Department of Pharmacology and Department of Genetics, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(25)1] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and
MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Next Generation Diagnostics,
Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA
(W.W.); Marcus Autism Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia 
30329, USA (C.G.).
(26)1] HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, 601 Genome Way, Huntsville,
Alabama 35806, USA [2] Next Generation Diagnostics, Novartis Institutes for
BioMedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA (W.W.); Marcus Autism Center, 
Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia 30329, USA (C.G.).

The discovery of rare genetic variants is accelerating, and clear guidelines for 
distinguishing disease-causing sequence variants from the many potentially
functional variants present in any human genome are urgently needed. Without
rigorous standards we risk an acceleration of false-positive reports of
causality, which would impede the translation of genomic research findings into
the clinical diagnostic setting and hinder biological understanding of disease.
Here we discuss the key challenges of assessing sequence variants in human
disease, integrating both gene-level and variant-level support for causality. We 
propose guidelines for summarizing confidence in variant pathogenicity and
highlight several areas that require further resource development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13127 
PMCID: PMC4180223
PMID: 24759409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):483-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13203. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Juno is the egg Izumo receptor and is essential for mammalian fertilization.

Bianchi E(1), Doe B(2), Goulding D(3), Wright GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Surface Signalling Laboratory, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, 
Cambridge, CB10 1SA, UK.
(2)Mouse Production Team, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge,
CB10 1SA, UK.
(3)Electron and Advanced Light Microscopy Suite, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute,
Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SA, UK.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(13):2019-20.
    Asian J Androl. 2014 Nov-Dec;16(6):801-2.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):466-7.

Fertilization occurs when sperm and egg recognize each other and fuse to form a
new, genetically distinct organism. The molecular basis of sperm-egg recognition 
is unknown, but is likely to require interactions between receptor proteins
displayed on their surface. Izumo1 is an essential sperm cell-surface protein,
but its receptor on the egg has not been described. Here we identify folate
receptor 4 (Folr4) as the receptor for Izumo1 on the mouse egg, and propose to
rename it Juno. We show that the Izumo1-Juno interaction is conserved within
several mammalian species, including humans. Female mice lacking Juno are
infertile and Juno-deficient eggs do not fuse with normal sperm. Rapid shedding
of Juno from the oolemma after fertilization suggests a mechanism for the
membrane block to polyspermy, ensuring eggs normally fuse with just a single
sperm. Our discovery of an essential receptor pair at the nexus of conception
provides opportunities for the rational development of new fertility treatments
and contraceptives.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13203 
PMCID: PMC3998876
PMID: 24739963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):477-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13230. Epub 2014 Apr 16.

Sea-level and deep-sea-temperature variability over the past 5.3 million years.

Rohling EJ(1), Foster GL(2), Grant KM(3), Marino G(3), Roberts AP(3), Tamisiea
ME(4), Williams F(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Research School of Earth Sciences, The Australian National University,
Canberra 0200, Australia [2] Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton, 
National Oceanography Centre, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.
(2)Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton, National Oceanography
Centre, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.
(3)Research School of Earth Sciences, The Australian National University,
Canberra 0200, Australia.
(4)National Oceanography Centre, Joseph Proudman Building, Liverpool L3 5DA, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;(7505):432.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):465-6.

Ice volume (and hence sea level) and deep-sea temperature are key measures of
global climate change. Sea level has been documented using several independent
methods over the past 0.5 million years (Myr). Older periods, however, lack such 
independent validation; all existing records are related to deep-sea oxygen
isotope (δ(18)O) data that are influenced by processes unrelated to sea level.
For deep-sea temperature, only one continuous high-resolution (Mg/Ca-based)
record exists, with related sea-level estimates, spanning the past 1.5 Myr. Here 
we present a novel sea-level reconstruction, with associated estimates of
deep-sea temperature, which independently validates the previous 0-1.5 Myr
reconstruction and extends it back to 5.3 Myr ago. We find that deep-sea
temperature and sea level generally decreased through time, but distinctly out of
synchrony, which is remarkable given the importance of ice-albedo feedbacks on
the radiative forcing of climate. In particular, we observe a large temporal
offset during the onset of Plio-Pleistocene ice ages, between a marked cooling
step at 2.73 Myr ago and the first major glaciation at 2.15 Myr ago. Last, we
tentatively infer that ice sheets may have grown largest during glacials with
more modest reductions in deep-sea temperature.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13230 
PMID: 24739960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):513-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13072. Epub 2014 Apr 6.

Plate tectonics, damage and inheritance.

Bercovici D(1), Ricard Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 
06520-8109, USA.
(2)Laboratoire de Géologie de Lyon, Université de Lyon 1, CNRS, ENS-Lyon, 69622
Villeurbanne Cedex, France.

The initiation of plate tectonics on Earth is a critical event in our planet's
history. The time lag between the first proto-subduction (about 4 billion years
ago) and global tectonics (approximately 3 billion years ago) suggests that
plates and plate boundaries became widespread over a period of 1 billion years.
The reason for this time lag is unknown but fundamental to understanding the
origin of plate tectonics. Here we suggest that when sufficient lithospheric
damage (which promotes shear localization and long-lived weak zones) combines
with transient mantle flow and migrating proto-subduction, it leads to the
accumulation of weak plate boundaries and eventually to fully formed tectonic
plates driven by subduction alone. We simulate this process using a grain
evolution and damage mechanism with a composite rheology (which is compatible
with field and laboratory observations of polycrystalline rocks), coupled to an
idealized model of pressure-driven lithospheric flow in which a low-pressure zone
is equivalent to the suction of convective downwellings. In the simplest case,
for Earth-like conditions, a few successive rotations of the driving pressure
field yield relic damaged weak zones that are inherited by the lithospheric flow 
to form a nearly perfect plate, with passive spreading and strike-slip margins
that persist and localize further, even though flow is driven only by subduction.
But for hotter surface conditions, such as those on Venus, accumulation and
inheritance of damage is negligible; hence only subduction zones survive and
plate tectonics does not spread, which corresponds to observations. After plates 
have developed, continued changes in driving forces, combined with inherited
damage and weak zones, promote increased tectonic complexity, such as oblique
subduction, strike-slip boundaries that are subparallel to plate motion, and
spalling of minor plates.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13072 
PMID: 24717430 


677. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):504-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13249. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Electroreduction of carbon monoxide to liquid fuel on oxide-derived
nanocrystalline copper.

Li CW(1), Ciston J(2), Kanan MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford 94305, California.
(2)National Center for Electron Microscopy, Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, Berkeley 94720, California.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):460-1.

The electrochemical conversion of CO2 and H2O into liquid fuel is ideal for
high-density renewable energy storage and could provide an incentive for CO2
capture. However, efficient electrocatalysts for reducing CO2 and its derivatives
into a desirable fuel are not available at present. Although many catalysts can
reduce CO2 to carbon monoxide (CO), liquid fuel synthesis requires that CO is
reduced further, using H2O as a H(+) source. Copper (Cu) is the only known
material with an appreciable CO electroreduction activity, but in bulk form its
efficiency and selectivity for liquid fuel are far too low for practical use. In 
particular, H2O reduction to H2 outcompetes CO reduction on Cu electrodes unless 
extreme overpotentials are applied, at which point gaseous hydrocarbons are the
major CO reduction products. Here we show that nanocrystalline Cu prepared from
Cu2O ('oxide-derived Cu') produces multi-carbon oxygenates (ethanol, acetate and 
n-propanol) with up to 57% Faraday efficiency at modest potentials (-0.25 volts
to -0.5 volts versus the reversible hydrogen electrode) in CO-saturated alkaline 
H2O. By comparison, when prepared by traditional vapour condensation, Cu
nanoparticles with an average crystallite size similar to that of oxide-derived
copper produce nearly exclusive H2 (96% Faraday efficiency) under identical
conditions. Our results demonstrate the ability to change the intrinsic catalytic
properties of Cu for this notoriously difficult reaction by growing
interconnected nanocrystallites from the constrained environment of an oxide
lattice. The selectivity for oxygenates, with ethanol as the major product,
demonstrates the feasibility of a two-step conversion of CO2 to liquid fuel that 
could be powered by renewable electricity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13249 
PMID: 24717429 


678. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):526-30. doi: 10.1038/nature13242. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Trogocytosis by Entamoeba histolytica contributes to cell killing and tissue
invasion.

Ralston KS(1), Solga MD(2), Mackey-Lawrence NM(1), Somlata(3), Bhattacharya A(3),
Petri WA Jr(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22908, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Cancer Biology, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, 110067 New Delhi, India.
(4)1] Department of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22908, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Cancer Biology,
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA [3] Department of
Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2014 Jul 15;59(2):iii-iv.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):462-3.

Entamoeba histolytica is the causative agent of amoebiasis, a potentially fatal
diarrhoeal disease in the developing world. The parasite was named "histolytica" 
for its ability to destroy host tissues, which is probably driven by direct
killing of human cells. The mechanism of human cell killing has been unclear,
although the accepted model was that the parasites use secreted toxic effectors
to kill cells before ingestion. Here we report the discovery that amoebae kill by
ingesting distinct pieces of living human cells, resulting in intracellular
calcium elevation and eventual cell death. After cell killing, amoebae detach and
cease ingestion. Ingestion of human cell fragments is required for cell killing, 
and also contributes to invasion of intestinal tissue. The internalization of
fragments of living human cells is reminiscent of trogocytosis (from Greek trogo,
nibble) observed between immune cells, but amoebic trogocytosis differs because
it results in death. The ingestion of live cell material and the rejection of
corpses illuminate a stark contrast to the established model of dead cell
clearance in multicellular organisms. These findings change the model for tissue 
destruction in amoebiasis and suggest an ancient origin of trogocytosis as a form
of intercellular exchange.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13242 
PMCID: PMC4006097
PMID: 24717428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):531-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13073. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Inhibition of miR-25 improves cardiac contractility in the failing heart.

Wahlquist C(1), Jeong D(2), Rojas-Muñoz A(3), Kho C(4), Lee A(4), Mitsuyama S(4),
van Mil A(5), Park WJ(6), Sluijter JP(7), Doevendans PA(7), Hajjar RJ(4), Mercola
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, and the 
Muscle Development and Regeneration Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research
Institute, 10901 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2].
(2)1] The Cardiovascular Research Center, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2].
(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, and the
Muscle Development and Regeneration Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research
Institute, 10901 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(4)The Cardiovascular Research Center, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai,
New York, New York 10029, USA.
(5)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, and the 
Muscle Development and Regeneration Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research
Institute, 10901 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2]
Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Utrecht and ICIN Netherlands 
Heart Institute, Heidelberglaan 100, room G02.523, 3584 CX Utrecht, The
Netherlands.
(6)Global Research Laboratory, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, 123
Cheomdan-gwagiro, Buk-gu, Gwangju 500-712, South Korea.
(7)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Utrecht and ICIN
Netherlands Heart Institute, Heidelberglaan 100, room G02.523, 3584 CX Utrecht,
The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2014 Jun 3;19(6):896-7.
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2014 Jun;7(3):393-4.
    Circ Res. 2014 Sep 12;115(7):610-2.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 May;13(5):336.

Heart failure is characterized by a debilitating decline in cardiac function, and
recent clinical trial results indicate that improving the contractility of heart 
muscle cells by boosting intracellular calcium handling might be an effective
therapy. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are dysregulated in heart failure but whether they
control contractility or constitute therapeutic targets remains speculative.
Using high-throughput functional screening of the human microRNAome, here we
identify miRNAs that suppress intracellular calcium handling in heart muscle by
interacting with messenger RNA encoding the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium uptake
pump SERCA2a (also known as ATP2A2). Of 875 miRNAs tested, miR-25 potently
delayed calcium uptake kinetics in cardiomyocytes in vitro and was upregulated in
heart failure, both in mice and humans. Whereas adeno-associated virus 9
(AAV9)-mediated overexpression of miR-25 in vivo resulted in a significant loss
of contractile function, injection of an antisense oligonucleotide (antagomiR)
against miR-25 markedly halted established heart failure in a mouse model,
improving cardiac function and survival relative to a control antagomiR
oligonucleotide. These data reveal that increased expression of endogenous miR-25
contributes to declining cardiac function during heart failure and suggest that
it might be targeted therapeutically to restore function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13073 
PMCID: PMC4131725
PMID: 24670661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):550-553. doi: 10.1038/nature13081. Epub 2014 Mar 9.

Structure of a type IV secretion system.

Low HH(#)(1), Gubellini F(#)(2), Rivera-Calzada A(1), Braun N(1), Connery S(1),
Dujeancourt A(2), Lu F(1), Redzej A(1), Fronzes R(2), Orlova EV(1), Waksman G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, UCL and Birkbeck, Malet Street,
London, WC1E 7HX, UK.
(2)Institut Pasteur, G5 Biologie structurale de la sécrétion bactérienne and UMR 
3528-CNRS, 25 rue du Docteur Roux, 75015 Paris, France.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 May;12(5):312.

Bacterial type IV secretion systems translocate virulence factors into eukaryotic
cells, distribute genetic material between bacteria and have shown potential as a
tool for the genetic modification of human cells. Given the complex choreography 
of the substrate through the secretion apparatus, the molecular mechanism of the 
type IV secretion system has proved difficult to dissect in the absence of
structural data for the entire machinery. Here we use electron microscopy to
reconstruct the type IV secretion system encoded by the Escherichia coli R388
conjugative plasmid. We show that eight proteins assemble in an intricate
stoichiometric relationship to form an approximately 3 megadalton nanomachine
that spans the entire cell envelope. The structure comprises an outer
membrane-associated core complex connected by a central stalk to a substantial
inner membrane complex that is dominated by a battery of 12 VirB4 ATPase subunits
organized as side-by-side hexameric barrels. Our results show a secretion system 
with markedly different architecture, and consequently mechanism, to other known 
bacterial secretion systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13081 
PMCID: PMC3998870
PMID: 24670658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):541-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13079. Epub 2014 Mar 9.

Cell-cycle-regulated activation of Akt kinase by phosphorylation at its carboxyl 
terminus.

Liu P(1), Begley M(2), Michowski W(3), Inuzuka H(1), Ginzberg M(4), Gao D(1),
Tsou P(2), Gan W(1), Papa A(5), Kim BM(6), Wan L(1), Singh A(7), Zhai B(4), Yuan 
M(8), Wang Z(9), Gygi SP(4), Lee TH(6), Lu KP(8), Toker A(1), Pandolfi PP(5),
Asara JM(8), Kirschner MW(10), Sicinski P(3), Cantley L(11), Wei W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)1] Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Department of
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(5)1] Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [3] Cancer
Genetics Program and Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(6)Division of Gerontology, Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(7)Cell Signaling Technology, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(9)1] Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] The Cyrus Tang Hematology
Center, Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow
University, Suzhou 215123, China (Z.W.); Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medical
College and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York 10065, USA (L.C.).
(10)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA.
(11)1] Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] The Cyrus Tang Hematology Center,
Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow
University, Suzhou 215123, China (Z.W.); Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medical
College and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York 10065, USA (L.C.).

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Jul;24(7):785-6.

Akt, also known as protein kinase B, plays key roles in cell proliferation,
survival and metabolism. Akt hyperactivation contributes to many
pathophysiological conditions, including human cancers, and is closely associated
with poor prognosis and chemo- or radiotherapeutic resistance. Phosphorylation of
Akt at S473 (ref. 5) and T308 (ref. 6) activates Akt. However, it remains unclear
whether further mechanisms account for full Akt activation, and whether Akt
hyperactivation is linked to misregulated cell cycle progression, another cancer 
hallmark. Here we report that Akt activity fluctuates across the cell cycle,
mirroring cyclin A expression. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of S477 and T479 
at the Akt extreme carboxy terminus by cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (Cdk2)/cyclin A 
or mTORC2, under distinct physiological conditions, promotes Akt activation
through facilitating, or functionally compensating for, S473 phosphorylation.
Furthermore, deletion of the cyclin A2 allele in the mouse olfactory bulb leads
to reduced S477/T479 phosphorylation and elevated cellular apoptosis. Notably,
cyclin A2-deletion-induced cellular apoptosis in mouse embryonic stem cells is
partly rescued by S477D/T479E-Akt1, supporting a physiological role for cyclin A2
in governing Akt activation. Together, the results of our study show Akt
S477/T479 phosphorylation to be an essential layer of the Akt activation
mechanism to regulate its physiological functions, thereby providing a new
mechanistic link between aberrant cell cycle progression and Akt hyperactivation 
in cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13079 
PMCID: PMC4076493
PMID: 24670654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):517-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13144. Epub 2014 Mar 9.

Herbivores and nutrients control grassland plant diversity via light limitation.

Borer ET(1), Seabloom EW(1), Gruner DS(2), Harpole WS(3), Hillebrand H(4), Lind
EM(1), Adler PB(5), Alberti J(6), Anderson TM(7), Bakker JD(8), Biederman L(3),
Blumenthal D(9), Brown CS(10), Brudvig LA(11), Buckley YM(12), Cadotte M(13), Chu
C(14), Cleland EE(15), Crawley MJ(16), Daleo P(6), Damschen EI(17), Davies
KF(18), DeCrappeo NM(19), Du G(14), Firn J(20), Hautier Y(1), Heckman RW(21),
Hector A(22), HilleRisLambers J(8), Iribarne O(6), Klein JA(10), Knops JM(23), La
Pierre KJ(24), Leakey AD(25), Li W(3), MacDougall AS(26), McCulley RL(27),
Melbourne BA(18), Mitchell CE(21), Moore JL(28), Mortensen B(3), O'Halloran
LR(29), Orrock JL(17), Pascual J(6), Prober SM(30), Pyke DA(19), Risch AC(31),
Schuetz M(31), Smith MD(10), Stevens CJ(32), Sullivan LL(3), Williams RJ(3),
Wragg PD(1), Wright JP(33), Yang LH(34).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St
Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.
(2)Department of Entomology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742, USA.
(3)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA.
(4)Institute for Chemistry and Biology of the Marine Environment, Carl-von-
Ossietzky University, 26382 Wilhelmshaven, Oldenburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Wildland Resources and the Ecology Center, Utah State
University, Logan, Utah 84322, USA.
(6)Instituto de Investigaciones Marinas y Costeras (IIMyC), Consejo Nacional de
Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Mar del Plata 7600 , Argentina.
(7)Department of Biology, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
27109, USA.
(8)School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(9)Agricultural Research Service (ARS), United States Department of Agriculture, 
Fort Collins, Colorado 80526, USA.
(10)Deptartment of Forest, Rangeland and Watershed Stewardship, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523, USA.
(11)Department of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
Michigan 48824, USA.
(12)1] ARC Centre of Excellence for Environmental Decisions, School of Biological
Sciences, The University of Queensland, Queensland 4072, Australia [2] School of 
Natural Sciences, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(13)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto
Scarborough, Ontario M1C 1A4, Canada.
(14)State Key Laboratory of Grassland and Agro-Ecosystems, Research Station of
Alpine Meadow and Wetland Ecosystems, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou
University, Lanzhou, 730000 Gansu, China.
(15)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, San Diego,
California 92093, USA.
(16)Department of Biology, Imperial College at Silwood Park, Ascot, Berkshire SL5
7PY, UK.
(17)Department of Zoology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706,
USA.
(18)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder Colorado 80309, USA.
(19)US Geological Survey, Forest and Rangeland Ecosystem Science Center,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(20)Queensland University of Technology, Biogeosciences, Brisbane, Queensland
4001, Australia.
(21)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(22)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RB, UK.
(23)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska
68588, USA.
(24)Berkeley Initiative for Global Change Biology, University of California,
Berkeley 94704, USA.
(25)Department of Plant Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
llinois 61820, USA.
(26)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario N1G 
2W1, Canada.
(27)Department of Plant & Soil Sciences, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
Kentucky 40546, USA.
(28)Australian Research Center for Urban Ecology, c/o School of Botany,
University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia, and School of Biological
Sciences, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(29)Department of Zoology, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(30)CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences, Wembley, West Australia 6913, Australia.
(31)Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research, Birmensdorf 
8903, Switzerland.
(32)Lancaster Environment Center, Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK.
(33)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.
(34)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, California 95616, 
USA.

Human alterations to nutrient cycles and herbivore communities are affecting
global biodiversity dramatically. Ecological theory predicts these changes should
be strongly counteractive: nutrient addition drives plant species loss through
intensified competition for light, whereas herbivores prevent competitive
exclusion by increasing ground-level light, particularly in productive systems.
Here we use experimental data spanning a globally relevant range of conditions to
test the hypothesis that herbaceous plant species losses caused by eutrophication
may be offset by increased light availability due to herbivory. This experiment, 
replicated in 40 grasslands on 6 continents, demonstrates that nutrients and
herbivores can serve as counteracting forces to control local plant diversity
through light limitation, independent of site productivity, soil nitrogen,
herbivore type and climate. Nutrient addition consistently reduced local
diversity through light limitation, and herbivory rescued diversity at sites
where it alleviated light limitation. Thus, species loss from anthropogenic
eutrophication can be ameliorated in grasslands where herbivory increases
ground-level light.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13144 
PMID: 24670649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):546-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13082. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Nectar secretion requires sucrose phosphate synthases and the sugar transporter
SWEET9.

Lin IW(1), Sosso D(1), Chen LQ(2), Gase K(3), Kim SG(3), Kessler D(3),
Klinkenberg PM(4), Gorder MK(4), Hou BH(2), Qu XQ(5), Carter CJ(4), Baldwin
IT(3), Frommer WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA
[2] Carnegie Institution for Science, 260 Panama Street, Stanford, California
94305, USA.
(2)Carnegie Institution for Science, 260 Panama Street, Stanford, California
94305, USA.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology, Jena D-07745, Germany.
(4)1] Department of Biology, University of Minnesota Duluth, Duluth, Minnesota
55812, USA [2] Department of Plant Biology, University of Minnesota, St Paul,
Minnesota 55108, USA.
(5)1] Carnegie Institution for Science, 260 Panama Street, Stanford, California
94305, USA [2] Key Laboratory of Plant and Soil Interactions, College of
Resources and Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural University, 100193
Beijing, China.

Angiosperms developed floral nectaries that reward pollinating insects. Although 
nectar function and composition have been characterized, the mechanism of nectar 
secretion has remained unclear. Here we identify SWEET9 as a nectary-specific
sugar transporter in three eudicot species: Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica rapa
(extrastaminal nectaries) and Nicotiana attenuata (gynoecial nectaries). We show 
that SWEET9 is essential for nectar production and can function as an efflux
transporter. We also show that sucrose phosphate synthase genes, encoding key
enzymes for sucrose biosynthesis, are highly expressed in nectaries and that
their expression is also essential for nectar secretion. Together these data are 
consistent with a model in which sucrose is synthesized in the nectary parenchyma
and subsequently secreted into the extracellular space via SWEET9, where sucrose 
is hydrolysed by an apoplasmic invertase to produce a mixture of sucrose, glucose
and fructose. The recruitment of SWEET9 for sucrose export may have been a key
innovation, and could have coincided with the evolution of core eudicots and
contributed to the evolution of nectar secretion to reward pollinators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13082 
PMID: 24670640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):536-40. doi: 10.1038/nature13071. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Foxc1 is a critical regulator of haematopoietic stem/progenitor cell niche
formation.

Omatsu Y(1), Seike M(1), Sugiyama T(1), Kume T(2), Nagasawa T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Immunobiology and Hematology, Institute for Frontier Medical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, Japan [2] Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), 
Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST), 53 Kawahara-cho,
Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(2)Feinberg Cardiovascular Research Institute, Feinberg School of Medicine,
Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells are maintained by special
microenvironments known as niches in bone marrow. Many studies have identified
diverse candidate cells that constitute niches for haematopoietic stem cells in
the marrow, including osteoblasts, endothelial cells, Schwann cells, α-smooth
muscle actin-expressing macrophages and mesenchymal progenitors such as CXC
chemokine ligand (CXCL)12-abundant reticular (CAR) cells, stem cell
factor-expressing cells, nestin-expressing cells and platelet-derived growth
factor receptor-α (PDGFR-α)(+)Sca-1(+)CD45(-)Ter119(-) (PαS) cells. However, the 
molecular basis of the formation of the niches remains unclear. Here we find that
the transcription factor Foxc1 is preferentially expressed in the
adipo-osteogenic progenitor CAR cells essential for haematopoietic stem and
progenitor cell maintenance in vivo in the developing and adult bone marrow. When
Foxc1 was deleted in all marrow mesenchymal cells or CAR cells, from
embryogenesis onwards, osteoblasts appeared normal, but haematopoietic stem and
progenitor cells were markedly reduced and marrow cavities were occupied by
adipocytes (yellow adipose marrow) with reduced CAR cells. Inducible deletion of 
Foxc1 in adult mice depleted haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and reduced
CXCL12 and stem cell factor expression in CAR cells but did not induce a change
to yellow marrow. These data suggest a role for Foxc1 in inhibiting adipogenic
processes in CAR progenitors. Foxc1 might also promote CAR cell development,
upregulating CXCL12 and stem cell factor expression. This study identifies Foxc1 
as a specific transcriptional regulator essential for development and maintenance
of the mesenchymal niches for haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13071 
PMID: 24590069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):521-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13014. Epub 2014 Feb 16.

Eutrophication weakens stabilizing effects of diversity in natural grasslands.

Hautier Y(1), Seabloom EW(2), Borer ET(2), Adler PB(3), Harpole WS(4), Hillebrand
H(5), Lind EM(2), MacDougall AS(6), Stevens CJ(7), Bakker JD(8), Buckley YM(9),
Chu C(10), Collins SL(11), Daleo P(12), Damschen EI(13), Davies KF(14), Fay
PA(15), Firn J(16), Gruner DS(17), Jin VL(18), Klein JA(19), Knops JM(20), La
Pierre KJ(21), Li W(22), McCulley RL(23), Melbourne BA(14), Moore JL(24),
O'Halloran LR(25), Prober SM(26), Risch AC(27), Sankaran M(28), Schuetz M(27),
Hector A(29).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota,
St Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA [2] Institute of Evolutionary Biology and
Environmental Studies, University of Zurich, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota,
St Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.
(3)Department of Wildland Resources and the Ecology Center, Utah State
University, Logan, Utah 84322, USA.
(4)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA.
(5)Institute for Chemistry and Biology of the Marine Environment,
Carl-von-Ossietzky University Oldenburg, D-26111 Oldenburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario N1G
2W1, Canada.
(7)Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK.
(8)School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(9)1] Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Environmental
Decisions, School of Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland,
Queensland 4072, Australia [2] School of Natural Sciences, Department of Zoology,
Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(10)State Key Laboratory of Grassland and Agro-Ecosystems, Research Station of
Alpine Meadow and Wetland Ecosystems, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou
University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(11)Department of Biology, MSC03-2020, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico 87131, USA.
(12)Instituto de Investigaciones Marinas y Costeras (IIMyC) (CONICET-UNMdP), Mar 
del Plata 7600, Argentina.
(13)Department of Zoology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706,
USA.
(14)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(15)United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service,
Grassland Soil and Water Research Lab, Temple, Texas 76502, USA.
(16)Queensland University of Technology, School of Biological Sciences, Brisbane 
4000, Australia.
(17)Department of Entomology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742, USA.
(18)United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service,
Agroecosystem Management Research Unit, Lincoln, Nebraska 68583, USA.
(19)Department of Forest, Rangeland and Watershed Stewardship, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523, USA.
(20)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska
68588, USA.
(21)Berkeley Initiative for Global Change Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(22)Yunnan Academy of Biodiversity, Southwest Forestry University, Kunming
650224, China.
(23)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
Kentucky 40546, USA.
(24)1] Australian Research Centre for Urban Ecology, Melbourne, c/o School of
Botany, University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia [2] School of
Biological Sciences, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(25)Department of Zoology, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(26)CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences, Wembley, WA 6913, Australia.
(27)Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research, 8903
Birmensdorf, Switzerland.
(28)1] School of Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK [2] National
Centre for Biological Sciences, GKVK Campus, Bangalore 560065, India.
(29)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RB, UK.

Studies of experimental grassland communities have demonstrated that plant
diversity can stabilize productivity through species asynchrony, in which
decreases in the biomass of some species are compensated for by increases in
others. However, it remains unknown whether these findings are relevant to
natural ecosystems, especially those for which species diversity is threatened by
anthropogenic global change. Here we analyse diversity-stability relationships
from 41 grasslands on five continents and examine how these relationships are
affected by chronic fertilization, one of the strongest drivers of species loss
globally. Unmanipulated communities with more species had greater species
asynchrony, resulting in more stable biomass production, generalizing a result
from biodiversity experiments to real-world grasslands. However, fertilization
weakened the positive effect of diversity on stability. Contrary to expectations,
this was not due to species loss after eutrophication but rather to an increase
in the temporal variation of productivity in combination with a decrease in
species asynchrony in diverse communities. Our results demonstrate separate and
synergistic effects of diversity and eutrophication on stability, emphasizing the
need to understand how drivers of global change interactively affect the reliable
provisioning of ecosystem services in real-world systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13014 
PMID: 24531763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):373-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13184.

Ultralow thermal conductivity and high thermoelectric figure of merit in SnSe
crystals.

Zhao LD(1), Lo SH(2), Zhang Y(2), Sun H(3), Tan G(1), Uher C(3), Wolverton C(2), 
Dravid VP(2), Kanatzidis MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA.
(2)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2014 Aug 25;53(35):9126-7.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):327-8.

The thermoelectric effect enables direct and reversible conversion between
thermal and electrical energy, and provides a viable route for power generation
from waste heat. The efficiency of thermoelectric materials is dictated by the
dimensionless figure of merit, ZT (where Z is the figure of merit and T is
absolute temperature), which governs the Carnot efficiency for heat conversion.
Enhancements above the generally high threshold value of 2.5 have important
implications for commercial deployment, especially for compounds free of Pb and
Te. Here we report an unprecedented ZT of 2.6 ± 0.3 at 923 K, realized in SnSe
single crystals measured along the b axis of the room-temperature orthorhombic
unit cell. This material also shows a high ZT of 2.3 ± 0.3 along the c axis but a
significantly reduced ZT of 0.8 ± 0.2 along the a axis. We attribute the
remarkably high ZT along the b axis to the intrinsically ultralow lattice thermal
conductivity in SnSe. The layered structure of SnSe derives from a distorted
rock-salt structure, and features anomalously high Grüneisen parameters, which
reflect the anharmonic and anisotropic bonding. We attribute the exceptionally
low lattice thermal conductivity (0.23 ± 0.03 W m(-1) K(-1) at 973 K) in SnSe to 
the anharmonicity. These findings highlight alternative strategies to
nanostructuring for achieving high thermoelectric performance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13184 
PMID: 24740068 


687. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):369-72. doi: 10.1038/nature13017.

Coherent suppression of electromagnetic dissipation due to superconducting
quasiparticles.

Pop IM(1), Geerlings K(1), Catelani G(2), Schoelkopf RJ(3), Glazman LI(3),
Devoret MH(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Applied Physics, Yale University, 15 Prospect Street, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Applied Physics, Yale University, 15 Prospect Street, New
Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA [2] Forschungszentrum Jülich, Peter Grünberg
Institut (PGI-2), 52425 Jülich, Germany.
(3)Department of Applied Physics, Yale University, 15 Prospect Street, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA.

Owing to the low-loss propagation of electromagnetic signals in superconductors, 
Josephson junctions constitute ideal building blocks for quantum memories,
amplifiers, detectors and high-speed processing units, operating over a wide band
of microwave frequencies. Nevertheless, although transport in superconducting
wires is perfectly lossless for direct current, transport of radio-frequency
signals can be dissipative in the presence of quasiparticle excitations above the
superconducting gap. Moreover, the exact mechanism of this dissipation in
Josephson junctions has never been fully resolved experimentally. In particular, 
Josephson's key theoretical prediction that quasiparticle dissipation should
vanish in transport through a junction when the phase difference across the
junction is π (ref. 2) has never been observed. This subtle effect can be
understood as resulting from the destructive interference of two separate
dissipative channels involving electron-like and hole-like quasiparticles. Here
we report the experimental observation of this quantum coherent suppression of
quasiparticle dissipation across a Josephson junction. As the average phase bias 
across the junction is swept through π, we measure an increase of more than one
order of magnitude in the energy relaxation time of a superconducting artificial 
atom. This striking suppression of dissipation, despite the presence of lossy
quasiparticle excitations above the superconducting gap, provides a powerful tool
for minimizing decoherence in quantum electronic systems and could be directly
exploited in quantum information experiments with superconducting quantum bits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13017 
PMID: 24740067 


688. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):364-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13175.

Isotopic links between atmospheric chemistry and the deep sulphur cycle on Mars.

Franz HB(1), Kim ST(2), Farquhar J(3), Day JM(4), Economos RC(5), McKeegan KD(5),
Schmitt AK(5), Irving AJ(6), Hoek J(3), Dottin J 3rd(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Research and Exploration in Space Science and Technology, NASA
Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA [2] Department of
Geology and Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center, University of
Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.
(2)School of Geography and Earth Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario
L8S 4K1, Canada.
(3)Department of Geology and Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center,
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.
(4)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(5)Department of Earth and Space Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA.
(6)Department of Earth and Space Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

The geochemistry of Martian meteorites provides a wealth of information about the
solid planet and the surface and atmospheric processes that occurred on Mars. The
degree to which Martian magmas may have assimilated crustal material, thus
altering the geochemical signatures acquired from their mantle sources, is
unclear. This issue features prominently in efforts to understand whether the
source of light rare-earth elements in enriched shergottites lies in crustal
material incorporated into melts or in mixing between enriched and depleted
mantle reservoirs. Sulphur isotope systematics offer insight into some aspects of
crustal assimilation. The presence of igneous sulphides in Martian meteorites
with sulphur isotope signatures indicative of mass-independent fractionation
suggests the assimilation of sulphur both during passage of magmas through the
crust of Mars and at sites of emplacement. Here we report isotopic analyses of 40
Martian meteorites that represent more than half of the distinct known Martian
meteorites, including 30 shergottites (28 plus 2 pairs, where pairs are separate 
fragments of a single meteorite), 8 nakhlites (5 plus 3 pairs), Allan Hills 84001
and Chassigny. Our data provide strong evidence that assimilation of sulphur into
Martian magmas was a common occurrence throughout much of the planet's history.
The signature of mass-independent fractionation observed also indicates that the 
atmospheric imprint of photochemical processing preserved in Martian meteoritic
sulphide and sulphate is distinct from that observed in terrestrial analogues,
suggesting fundamental differences between the dominant sulphur chemistry in the 
atmosphere of Mars and that in the atmosphere of Earth.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13175 
PMID: 24740066 


689. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):345-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13200.

Domains of genome-wide gene expression dysregulation in Down's syndrome.

Letourneau A(1), Santoni FA(1), Bonilla X(2), Sailani MR(2), Gonzalez D(3), Kind 
J(4), Chevalier C(5), Thurman R(6), Sandstrom RS(6), Hibaoui Y(7), Garieri M(2), 
Popadin K(2), Falconnet E(2), Gagnebin M(2), Gehrig C(2), Vannier A(2), Guipponi 
M(2), Farinelli L(8), Robyr D(2), Migliavacca E(9), Borel C(2), Deutsch S(10),
Feki A(7), Stamatoyannopoulos JA(6), Herault Y(5), van Steensel B(4), Guigo R(3),
Antonarakis SE(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva
Medical School, University Hospitals of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2].
(2)Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva Medical
School, University Hospitals of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Center for Genomic Regulation, University Pompeu Fabra, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain.
(4)Division of Gene Regulation, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1066 CX Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(5)AneuPath 21, Institut de Génétique Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire,
Translational medicine and Neuroscience program, IGBMC, ICS, PHENOMIN, CNRS,
INSERM, Université de Strasbourg, UMR7104, UMR964, 1 rue Laurent Fries, 67404
Illkirch, France.
(6)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(7)Stem Cell Research Laboratory, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Geneva
University Hospitals, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(8)FASTERIS SA, 1228 Plan-les-Ouates, Switzerland.
(9)1] Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva
Medical School, University Hospitals of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2]
Swiss Institute of Bioinfomatics, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(10)DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, California 94598, USA.
(11)1] Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva
Medical School, University Hospitals of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland [2] iGE3
Institute of Genetics and Genomics of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2016 Mar 17;531(7594):400.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):323-4.

Trisomy 21 is the most frequent genetic cause of cognitive impairment. To assess 
the perturbations of gene expression in trisomy 21, and to eliminate the noise of
genomic variability, we studied the transcriptome of fetal fibroblasts from a
pair of monozygotic twins discordant for trisomy 21. Here we show that the
differential expression between the twins is organized in domains along all
chromosomes that are either upregulated or downregulated. These gene expression
dysregulation domains (GEDDs) can be defined by the expression level of their
gene content, and are well conserved in induced pluripotent stem cells derived
from the twins' fibroblasts. Comparison of the transcriptome of the Ts65Dn mouse 
model of Down's syndrome and normal littermate mouse fibroblasts also showed
GEDDs along the mouse chromosomes that were syntenic in human. The GEDDs
correlate with the lamina-associated (LADs) and replication domains of mammalian 
cells. The overall position of LADs was not altered in trisomic cells; however,
the H3K4me3 profile of the trisomic fibroblasts was modified and accurately
followed the GEDD pattern. These results indicate that the nuclear compartments
of trisomic cells undergo modifications of the chromatin environment influencing 
the overall transcriptome, and that GEDDs may therefore contribute to some
trisomy 21 phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13200 
PMID: 24740065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):331-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13001.

The ensemble nature of allostery.

Motlagh HN(1), Wrabl JO(1), Li J(1), Hilser VJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and T.C. Jenkins Department of Biophysics, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.

Allostery is the process by which biological macromolecules (mostly proteins)
transmit the effect of binding at one site to another, often distal, functional
site, allowing for regulation of activity. Recent experimental observations
demonstrating that allostery can be facilitated by dynamic and intrinsically
disordered proteins have resulted in a new paradigm for understanding allosteric 
mechanisms, which focuses on the conformational ensemble and the statistical
nature of the interactions responsible for the transmission of information.
Analysis of allosteric ensembles reveals a rich spectrum of regulatory
strategies, as well as a framework to unify the description of allosteric
mechanisms from different systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13001 
PMCID: PMC4224315
PMID: 24740064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):387-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13238. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Rapid and tunable post-translational coupling of genetic circuits.

Prindle A(1), Selimkhanov J(1), Li H(2), Razinkov I(2), Tsimring LS(3), Hasty
J(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [2].
(2)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.
(3)BioCircuits Institute, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.
(4)1] Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] BioCircuits Institute, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [3] Molecular Biology Section,
Division of Biological Science, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):326-7.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Jun;15(6):365.

One promise of synthetic biology is the creation of genetic circuitry that
enables the execution of logical programming in living cells. Such 'wet
programming' is positioned to transform a wide and diverse swathe of
biotechnology ranging from therapeutics and diagnostics to water treatment
strategies. Although progress in the development of a library of genetic modules 
continues apace, a major challenge for their integration into larger circuits is 
the generation of sufficiently fast and precise communication between modules. An
attractive approach is to integrate engineered circuits with host processes that 
facilitate robust cellular signalling. In this context, recent studies have
demonstrated that bacterial protein degradation can trigger a precise response to
stress by overloading a limited supply of intracellular proteases. Here we use
protease competition to engineer rapid and tunable coupling of genetic circuits
across multiple spatial and temporal scales. We characterize coupling delay times
that are more than an order of magnitude faster than standard
transcription-factor-based coupling methods (less than 1 min compared with ∼20-40
min) and demonstrate tunability through manipulation of the linker between the
protein and its degradation tag. We use this mechanism as a platform to couple
genetic clocks at the intracellular and colony level, then synchronize the
multi-colony dynamics to reduce variability in both clocks. We show how the
coupled clock network can be used to encode independent environmental inputs into
a single time series output, thus enabling frequency multiplexing (information
transmitted on a common channel by distinct frequencies) in a genetic circuit
context. Our results establish a general framework for the rapid and tunable
coupling of genetic circuits through the use of native 'queueing' processes such 
as competitive protein degradation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13238 
PMCID: PMC4142690
PMID: 24717442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):340-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13231. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Enantioselective construction of remote quaternary stereocentres.

Mei TS(1), Patel HH(1), Sigman MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The University of Utah, 315 South, 1400 East, Salt
Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):324-5.

Small molecules that contain all-carbon quaternary stereocentres-carbon atoms
bonded to four distinct carbon substituents-are found in many secondary
metabolites and some pharmaceutical agents. The construction of such compounds in
an enantioselective fashion remains a long-standing challenge to synthetic
organic chemists. In particular, methods for synthesizing quaternary
stereocentres that are remote from other functional groups are underdeveloped.
Here we report a catalytic and enantioselective intermolecular Heck-type reaction
of trisubstituted-alkenyl alcohols with aryl boronic acids. This method provides 
direct access to quaternary all-carbon-substituted β-, γ-, δ-, ε- or ζ-aryl
carbonyl compounds, because the unsaturation of the alkene is relayed to the
alcohol, resulting in the formation of a carbonyl group. The scope of the process
also includes incorporation of pre-existing stereocentres along the alkyl chain, 
which links the alkene and the alcohol, in which the stereocentre is preserved.
The method described allows access to diverse molecular building blocks
containing an enantiomerically enriched quaternary centre.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13231 
PMCID: PMC4007023
PMID: 24717439 


693. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):378-82. doi: 10.1038/nature13076. Epub 2014 Mar 30.

Mid-latitude interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw over the past 550,000 years.

Jo KN(1), Woo KS(2), Yi S(1), Yang DY(1), Lim HS(3), Wang Y(4), Cheng H(5),
Edwards RL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Korea Institute of Geoscience and Mineral Resources, Daejeon 305-350, South
Korea.
(2)Department of Geology, Kangwon National University, Gangwondo 200-701, South
Korea.
(3)Department of Geological Sciences, Pusan National University, Busan 609-735,
South Korea.
(4)College of Geography Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210097,
China.
(5)1] Institute of Global Environmental Change, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 
710049, China [2] Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
(6)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Oct 1;526(7571):E1-2.
    Nature. 2015 Oct 1;526(7571):E2-3.

An interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw--in which latitudinal migrations of the
Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) produce simultaneous wetting (increased
precipitation) in one hemisphere and drying in the other--has been discovered in 
some tropical and subtropical regions. For instance, Chinese and Brazilian
subtropical speleothem (cave formations such as stalactites and stalagmites)
records show opposite trends in time series of oxygen isotopes (a proxy for
precipitation variability) at millennial to orbital timescales, suggesting that
hydrologic cycles were antiphased in the northerly versus southerly subtropics.
This tropical to subtropical hydrologic phenomenon is likely to be an initial and
important climatic response to orbital forcing. The impacts of such an
interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw on higher-latitude regions and the global
climate system, however, are unknown. Here we show that the antiphasing seen in
the tropical records is also present in both hemispheres of the mid-latitude
western Pacific Ocean. Our results are based on a new 550,000-year record of the 
growth frequency of speleothems from the Korean peninsula, which we compare to
Southern Hemisphere equivalents. The Korean data are discontinuous and derived
from 24 separate speleothems, but still allow the identification of periods of
peak speleothem growth and, thus, precipitation. The clear hemispheric
antiphasing indicates that the sphere of influence of the interhemispheric
hydrologic seesaw over the past 550,000 years extended at least to the
mid-latitudes, such as northeast Asia, and that orbital-timescale ITCZ shifts can
have serious effects on temperate climate systems. Furthermore, our result
implies that insolation-driven ITCZ dynamics may provoke water vapour and
vegetation feedbacks in northern mid-latitude regions and could have regulated
global climate conditions throughout the late Quaternary ice age cycles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13076 
PMID: 24695222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):406-10. doi: 10.1038/nature13204. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

Caenorhabditis elegans pathways that surveil and defend mitochondria.

Liu Y(1), Samuel BS(2), Breen PC(2), Ruvkun G(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and
Membrane Biotechnology, Institute of Molecular Medicine, Peking-Tsinghua Center
for Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(2)1] Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):328-9.

Mitochondrial function is challenged by toxic by-products of metabolism as well
as by pathogen attack. Caenorhabditis elegans normally responds to mitochondrial 
dysfunction with activation of mitochondrial-repair, drug-detoxification and
pathogen-response pathways. Here, from a genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi)
screen, we identified 45 C. elegans genes that are required to upregulate
detoxification, pathogen-response and mitochondrial-repair pathways after
inhibition of mitochondrial function by drug-induced or genetic disruption.
Animals defective in ceramide biosynthesis are deficient in mitochondrial
surveillance, and addition of particular ceramides can rescue the surveillance
defects. Ceramide can also rescue the mitochondrial surveillance defects of other
gene inactivations, mapping these gene activities upstream of ceramide.
Inhibition of the mevalonate pathway, either by RNAi or statin drugs, also
disrupts mitochondrial surveillance. Growth of C. elegans with a significant
fraction of bacterial species from their natural habitat causes mitochondrial
dysfunction. Other bacterial species inhibit C. elegans defence responses to a
mitochondrial toxin, revealing bacterial countermeasures to animal defence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13204 
PMCID: PMC4102179
PMID: 24695221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):416-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13037. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Structural basis for translocation by AddAB helicase-nuclease and its arrest at χ
sites.

Krajewski WW(1), Fu X(2), Wilkinson M(2), Cronin NB(2), Dillingham MS(3), Wigley 
DB(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester
Beatty Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK [2] CRT Discovery
Laboratories, Department of Biological Sciences, Birkbeck, University of London, 
London WC1E 7HX, UK.
(2)Division of Structural Biology, Institute of Cancer Research, Chester Beatty
Laboratories, 237 Fulham Road, London SW3 6JB, UK.
(3)School of Biochemistry, University of Bristol, Medical Sciences Building,
University Walk, Bristol BS8 1TD, UK.

In bacterial cells, processing of double-stranded DNA breaks for repair by
homologous recombination is dependent upon the recombination hotspot sequence χ
(Chi) and is catalysed by either an AddAB- or RecBCD-type helicase-nuclease
(reviewed in refs 3, 4). These enzyme complexes unwind and digest the DNA duplex 
from the broken end until they encounter a χ sequence, whereupon they produce a
3' single-stranded DNA tail onto which they initiate loading of the RecA protein.
Consequently, regulation of the AddAB/RecBCD complex by χ is a key control point 
in DNA repair and other processes involving genetic recombination. Here we report
crystal structures of Bacillus subtilis AddAB in complex with different
χ-containing DNA substrates either with or without a non-hydrolysable ATP
analogue. Comparison of these structures suggests a mechanism for DNA
translocation and unwinding, suggests how the enzyme binds specifically to χ
sequences, and explains how χ recognition leads to the arrest of AddAB (and
RecBCD) translocation that is observed in single-molecule experiments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13037 
PMCID: PMC3991583
PMID: 24670664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):411-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13069. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

miRNAs trigger widespread epigenetically activated siRNAs from transposons in
Arabidopsis.

Creasey KM(1), Zhai J(2), Borges F(1), Van Ex F(1), Regulski M(1), Meyers BC(2), 
Martienssen RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New York
11724, USA.
(2)Delaware Biotechnology Institute and Department of Plant & Soil Sciences, 15
Innovation Way, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware 19711, USA.
(3)1] Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, New
York 11724, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute-Gordon and Betty Moore
Foundation, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA [3] Chaire Blaise 
Pascal, Institut de Biologie de l'Ecole Normale Supérieure (IBENS), 75230 Paris, 
France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 May;15(5):298-9.
    Nat Genet. 2014 Jun;46(6):530-1.

In plants, post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) is mediated by DICER-LIKE 1
(DCL1)-dependent microRNAs (miRNAs), which also trigger 21-nucleotide secondary
short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) via RNA-DEPENDENT RNA POLYMERASE 6 (RDR6), DCL4
and ARGONAUTE 1 (AGO1), whereas transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) of
transposons is mediated by 24-nucleotide heterochromatic (het)siRNAs, RDR2, DCL3 
and AGO4 (ref. 4). Transposons can also give rise to abundant 21-nucleotide
'epigenetically activated' small interfering RNAs (easiRNAs) in DECREASED DNA
METHYLATION 1 (ddm1) and DNA METHYLTRANSFERASE 1 (met1) mutants, as well as in
the vegetative nucleus of pollen grains and in dedifferentiated plant cell
cultures. Here we show that easiRNAs in Arabidopsis thaliana resemble secondary
siRNAs, in that thousands of transposon transcripts are specifically targeted by 
more than 50 miRNAs for cleavage and processing by RDR6. Loss of RDR6, DCL4 or
DCL1 in a ddm1 background results in loss of 21-nucleotide easiRNAs and severe
infertility, but 24-nucleotide hetsiRNAs are partially restored, supporting an
antagonistic relationship between PTGS and TGS. Thus miRNA-directed easiRNA
biogenesis is a latent mechanism that specifically targets transposon
transcripts, but only when they are epigenetically reactivated during
reprogramming of the germ line. This ancient recognition mechanism may have been 
retained both by transposons to evade long-term heterochromatic silencing and by 
their hosts for genome defence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13069 
PMCID: PMC4074602
PMID: 24670663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):383-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13086. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

A new fossil species supports an early origin for toothed whale echolocation.

Geisler JH(1), Colbert MW(2), Carew JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic
Medicine, Northern Boulevard, Old Westbury, New York 11568, USA.
(2)Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin,
Texas 78712, USA.
(3)Department of Geology and Environmental Geosciences, Natural History Museum,
College of Charleston, Charleston, South Carolina 29424, USA.

Odontocetes (toothed whales, dolphins and porpoises) hunt and navigate through
dark and turbid aquatic environments using echolocation; a key adaptation that
relies on the same principles as sonar. Among echolocating vertebrates,
odontocetes are unique in producing high-frequency vocalizations at the phonic
lips, a constriction in the nasal passages just beneath the blowhole, and then
using air sinuses and the melon to modulate their transmission. All extant
odontocetes seem to echolocate; however, exactly when and how this complex
behaviour--and its underlying anatomy--evolved is largely unknown. Here we report
an odontocete fossil, Oligocene in age (approximately 28 Myr ago), from South
Carolina (Cotylocara macei, gen. et sp. nov.) that has several features
suggestive of echolocation: a dense, thick and downturned rostrum; air sac
fossae; cranial asymmetry; and exceptionally broad maxillae. Our phylogenetic
analysis places Cotylocara in a basal clade of odontocetes, leading us to infer
that a rudimentary form of echolocation evolved in the early Oligocene, shortly
after odontocetes diverged from the ancestors of filter-feeding whales
(mysticetes). This was followed by enlargement of the facial muscles that
modulate echolocation calls, which in turn led to marked, convergent changes in
skull shape in the ancestors of Cotylocara, and in the lineage leading to extant 
odontocetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13086 
PMID: 24670659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):402-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13027. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Protection against filovirus diseases by a novel broad-spectrum nucleoside
analogue BCX4430.

Warren TK(1), Wells J(1), Panchal RG(1), Stuthman KS(1), Garza NL(1), Van
Tongeren SA(1), Dong L(1), Retterer CJ(1), Eaton BP(1), Pegoraro G(1), Honnold
S(1), Bantia S(2), Kotian P(2), Chen X(2), Taubenheim BR(3), Welch LS(1), Minning
DM(4), Babu YS(2), Sheridan WP(2), Bavari S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Translational Sciences, Therapeutic Discovery
Center, United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases
(USAMRIID), Fort Detrick, Maryland 21702, USA.
(2)BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc., Durham, North Carolina 27703, USA.
(3)1] BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc., Durham, North Carolina 27703, USA [2] Wilco 
Consulting, LLC, Durham, North Carolina 27712, USA.
(4)MedExpert Consulting, Inc., Indialantic, Florida 32903, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Jun;24(6):647-8.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 May;13(5):334.

Filoviruses are emerging pathogens and causative agents of viral haemorrhagic
fever. Case fatality rates of filovirus disease outbreaks are among the highest
reported for any human pathogen, exceeding 90% (ref. 1). Licensed therapeutic or 
vaccine products are not available to treat filovirus diseases. Candidate
therapeutics previously shown to be efficacious in non-human primate disease
models are based on virus-specific designs and have limited broad-spectrum
antiviral potential. Here we show that BCX4430, a novel synthetic adenosine
analogue, inhibits infection of distinct filoviruses in human cells. Biochemical,
reporter-based and primer-extension assays indicate that BCX4430 inhibits viral
RNA polymerase function, acting as a non-obligate RNA chain terminator.
Post-exposure intramuscular administration of BCX4430 protects against Ebola
virus and Marburg virus disease in rodent models. Most importantly, BCX4430
completely protects cynomolgus macaques from Marburg virus infection when
administered as late as 48 hours after infection. In addition, BCX4430 exhibits
broad-spectrum antiviral activity against numerous viruses, including
bunyaviruses, arenaviruses, paramyxoviruses, coronaviruses and flaviviruses. This
is the first report, to our knowledge, of non-human primate protection from
filovirus disease by a synthetic drug-like small molecule. We provide additional 
pharmacological characterizations supporting the potential development of BCX4430
as a countermeasure against human filovirus diseases and other viral diseases
representing major public health threats.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13027 
PMID: 24590073  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):392-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13070. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Apical constriction drives tissue-scale hydrodynamic flow to mediate cell
elongation.

He B(1), Doubrovinski K(1), Polyakov O(2), Wieschaus E(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA [2].
(2)Department of Physics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(3)1] Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Epithelial folding mediated by apical constriction converts flat epithelial
sheets into multilayered, complex tissue structures and is used throughout
development in most animals. Little is known, however, about how forces produced 
near the apical surface of the tissue are transmitted within individual cells to 
generate the global changes in cell shape that characterize tissue deformation.
Here we apply particle tracking velocimetry in gastrulating Drosophila embryos to
measure the movement of cytoplasm and plasma membrane during ventral furrow
formation. We find that cytoplasmic redistribution during the lengthening phase
of ventral furrow formation can be precisely described by viscous flows that
quantitatively match the predictions of hydrodynamics. Cell membranes move with
the ambient cytoplasm, with little resistance to, or driving force on, the flow. 
Strikingly, apical constriction produces similar flow patterns in mutant embryos 
that fail to form cells before gastrulation ('acellular' embryos), such that the 
global redistribution of cytoplasm mirrors the summed redistribution occurring in
individual cells of wild-type embryos. Our results indicate that during the
lengthening phase of ventral furrow formation, hydrodynamic behaviour of the
cytoplasm provides the predominant mechanism transmitting apically generated
forces deep into the tissue and that cell individualization is dispensable.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13070 
PMCID: PMC4111109
PMID: 24590071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):397-401. doi: 10.1038/nature13047. Epub 2014 Feb 9.

A committed precursor to innate lymphoid cells.

Constantinides MG(1), McDonald BD(1), Verhoef PA(1), Bendelac A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Immunology, Department of Pathology, The Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) specialize in the rapid secretion of polarized sets 
of cytokines and chemokines to combat infection and promote tissue repair at
mucosal barriers. Their diversity and similarities with previously characterized 
natural killer (NK) cells and lymphoid tissue inducers (LTi) have prompted a
provisional classification of all innate lymphocytes into groups 1, 2 and 3
solely on the basis of cytokine properties, but their developmental pathways and 
lineage relationships remain elusive. Here we identify and characterize a novel
subset of lymphoid precursors in mouse fetal liver and adult bone marrow that
transiently express high amounts of PLZF, a transcription factor previously
associated with NK T cell development, by using lineage tracing and transfer
studies. PLZF(high) cells were committed ILC progenitors with multiple ILC1, ILC2
and ILC3 potential at the clonal level. They excluded classical LTi and NK cells,
but included a peculiar subset of NK1.1(+)DX5(-) 'NK-like' cells residing in the 
liver. Deletion of PLZF markedly altered the development of several ILC subsets, 
but not LTi or NK cells. PLZF(high) precursors also expressed high amounts of ID2
and GATA3, as well as TOX, a known regulator of PLZF-independent NK and LTi
lineages. These findings establish novel lineage relationships between ILC, NK
and LTi cells, and identify the common precursor to ILCs, termed ILCP. They also 
reveal the broad, defining role of PLZF in the differentiation of innate
lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13047 
PMCID: PMC4003507
PMID: 24509713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):351-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13023. Epub 2014 Feb 2.

Brainstem nucleus MdV mediates skilled forelimb motor tasks.

Esposito MS(1), Capelli P(1), Arber S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Biozentrum, Department of Cell Biology, University of Basel, Basel 4056,
Switzerland [2] Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Basel 4058,
Switzerland.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Mar 31;24(7):R269-71.

Translating the behavioural output of the nervous system into movement involves
interaction between brain and spinal cord. The brainstem provides an essential
bridge between the two structures, but circuit-level organization and function of
this intermediary system remain poorly understood. Here we use intersectional
virus tracing and genetic strategies in mice to reveal a selective synaptic
connectivity matrix between brainstem substructures and functionally distinct
spinal motor neurons that regulate limb movement. The brainstem nucleus medullary
reticular formation ventral part (MdV) stands out as specifically targeting
subpopulations of forelimb-innervating motor neurons. Its glutamatergic premotor 
neurons receive synaptic input from key upper motor centres and are recruited
during motor tasks. Selective neuronal ablation or silencing experiments reveal
that MdV is critically important specifically for skilled motor behaviour,
including accelerating rotarod and single-food-pellet reaching tasks. Our results
indicate that distinct premotor brainstem nuclei access spinal subcircuits to
mediate task-specific aspects of motor programs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13023 
PMID: 24487621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):357-63. doi: 10.1038/nature13021. Epub 2014 Feb 2.

Skilled reaching relies on a V2a propriospinal internal copy circuit.

Azim E(1), Jiang J(2), Alstermark B(2), Jessell TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Kavli Institute for Brain Science, Mortimer
B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, Departments of Neuroscience and
Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA.
(2)Department of Integrative Medical Biology, Section of Physiology, Umeå
University, Umeå, Sweden.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Mar 31;24(7):R269-71.

The precision of skilled forelimb movement has long been presumed to rely on
rapid feedback corrections triggered by internally directed copies of outgoing
motor commands, but the functional relevance of inferred internal copy circuits
has remained unclear. One class of spinal interneurons implicated in the control 
of mammalian forelimb movement, cervical propriospinal neurons (PNs), has the
potential to convey an internal copy of premotor signals through dual innervation
of forelimb-innervating motor neurons and precerebellar neurons of the lateral
reticular nucleus. Here we examine whether the PN internal copy pathway functions
in the control of goal-directed reaching. In mice, PNs include a genetically
accessible subpopulation of cervical V2a interneurons, and their targeted
ablation perturbs reaching while leaving intact other elements of forelimb
movement. Moreover, optogenetic activation of the PN internal copy branch
recruits a rapid cerebellar feedback loop that modulates forelimb motor neuron
activity and severely disrupts reaching kinematics. Our findings implicate V2a
PNs as the focus of an internal copy pathway assigned to the rapid updating of
motor output during reaching behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13021 
PMCID: PMC4230338
PMID: 24487617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):258-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13198.

Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase knockdown protects against diet-induced obesity.

Kraus D(1), Yang Q(1), Kong D(2), Banks AS(3), Zhang L(2), Rodgers JT(3), Pirinen
E(4), Pulinilkunnil TC(5), Gong F(5), Wang YC(2), Cen Y(6), Sauve AA(6), Asara
JM(7), Peroni OD(2), Monia BP(8), Bhanot S(8), Alhonen L(4), Puigserver P(3),
Kahn BB(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of
Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 330
Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] [3] Division of
Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine I, Würzburg University Hospital,
Oberdürrbacher Straße 6, 97080 Würzburg, Germany (D.K.); Department of Medicine, 
Physiology and Biophysics, Center for Diabetes Research and Treatment, and Center
for Epigenetics and Metabolism, University of California, Irvine, California
92697, USA (Q.Y.); Research Programs Unit, Molecular Neurology, Biomedicum
Helsinki, University of Helsinki, 00290, Helsinki, Finland (E.P.); Department of 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie Medicine New
Brunswick, Dalhousie University, Saint John, New Brunswick E2L4L5, USA (T.C.P.); 
Department of Endocrinology, Key Laboratory of Endocrinology of Ministry of
Health, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, China (F.G.); School
of Pharmacy, University of Eastern Finland, P.O. Box 1627, FI-70211 Kuopio,
Finland (L.A.).
(2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 330 Brookline
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)1] Biotechnology and Molecular Medicine, A.I. Virtanen Institute for Molecular
Sciences, Biocenter Kuopio, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio Campus, PO Box 
1627, FI-70211 Kuopio, Finland [2] Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal
Medicine I, Würzburg University Hospital, Oberdürrbacher Straße 6, 97080
Würzburg, Germany (D.K.); Department of Medicine, Physiology and Biophysics,
Center for Diabetes Research and Treatment, and Center for Epigenetics and
Metabolism, University of California, Irvine, California 92697, USA (Q.Y.);
Research Programs Unit, Molecular Neurology, Biomedicum Helsinki, University of
Helsinki, 00290, Helsinki, Finland (E.P.); Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie Medicine New Brunswick,
Dalhousie University, Saint John, New Brunswick E2L4L5, USA (T.C.P.); Department 
of Endocrinology, Key Laboratory of Endocrinology of Ministry of Health, Peking
Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking
Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, China (F.G.); School of Pharmacy,
University of Eastern Finland, P.O. Box 1627, FI-70211 Kuopio, Finland (L.A.).
(5)1] Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of
Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School, 330
Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Division of Nephrology,
Department of Internal Medicine I, Würzburg University Hospital, Oberdürrbacher
Straße 6, 97080 Würzburg, Germany (D.K.); Department of Medicine, Physiology and 
Biophysics, Center for Diabetes Research and Treatment, and Center for
Epigenetics and Metabolism, University of California, Irvine, California 92697,
USA (Q.Y.); Research Programs Unit, Molecular Neurology, Biomedicum Helsinki,
University of Helsinki, 00290, Helsinki, Finland (E.P.); Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie Medicine New
Brunswick, Dalhousie University, Saint John, New Brunswick E2L4L5, USA (T.C.P.); 
Department of Endocrinology, Key Laboratory of Endocrinology of Ministry of
Health, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, China (F.G.); School
of Pharmacy, University of Eastern Finland, P.O. Box 1627, FI-70211 Kuopio,
Finland (L.A.).
(6)Department of Pharmacology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, 1300 
York Avenue, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(7)Division of Signal Transduction, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and
Harvard Medical School, 330 Brookline Ave, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(8)Isis Pharmaceuticals, 1896 Rutherford Road, Carlsbad, California 92008-7326,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):194-5.

In obesity and type 2 diabetes, Glut4 glucose transporter expression is decreased
selectively in adipocytes. Adipose-specific knockout or overexpression of Glut4
alters systemic insulin sensitivity. Here we show, using DNA array analyses, that
nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (Nnmt) is the most strongly reciprocally
regulated gene when comparing gene expression in white adipose tissue (WAT) from 
adipose-specific Glut4-knockout or adipose-specific Glut4-overexpressing mice
with their respective controls. NNMT methylates nicotinamide (vitamin B3) using
S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) as a methyl donor. Nicotinamide is a precursor of
NAD(+), an important cofactor linking cellular redox states with energy
metabolism. SAM provides propylamine for polyamine biosynthesis and donates a
methyl group for histone methylation. Polyamine flux including synthesis,
catabolism and excretion, is controlled by the rate-limiting enzymes ornithine
decarboxylase (ODC) and spermidine-spermine N(1)-acetyltransferase (SSAT; encoded
by Sat1) and by polyamine oxidase (PAO), and has a major role in energy
metabolism. We report that NNMT expression is increased in WAT and liver of obese
and diabetic mice. Nnmt knockdown in WAT and liver protects against diet-induced 
obesity by augmenting cellular energy expenditure. NNMT inhibition increases
adipose SAM and NAD(+) levels and upregulates ODC and SSAT activity as well as
expression, owing to the effects of NNMT on histone H3 lysine 4 methylation in
adipose tissue. Direct evidence for increased polyamine flux resulting from NNMT 
inhibition includes elevated urinary excretion and adipocyte secretion of
diacetylspermine, a product of polyamine metabolism. NNMT inhibition in
adipocytes increases oxygen consumption in an ODC-, SSAT- and PAO-dependent
manner. Thus, NNMT is a novel regulator of histone methylation, polyamine flux
and NAD(+)-dependent SIRT1 signalling, and is a unique and attractive target for 
treating obesity and type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13198 
PMCID: PMC4107212
PMID: 24717514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):241-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13188.

Nanophotonic quantum phase switch with a single atom.

Tiecke TG(1), Thompson JD(2), de Leon NP(3), Liu LR(4), Vuletić V(5), Lukin
MD(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA [2] Department of Physics and Research Laboratory of Electronics,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(4)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.
(5)Department of Physics and Research Laboratory of Electronics, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):195-6.

By analogy to transistors in classical electronic circuits, quantum optical
switches are important elements of quantum circuits and quantum networks.
Operated at the fundamental limit where a single quantum of light or matter
controls another field or material system, such a switch may enable applications 
such as long-distance quantum communication, distributed quantum information
processing and metrology, and the exploration of novel quantum states of matter. 
Here, by strongly coupling a photon to a single atom trapped in the near field of
a nanoscale photonic crystal cavity, we realize a system in which a single atom
switches the phase of a photon and a single photon modifies the atom's phase. We 
experimentally demonstrate an atom-induced optical phase shift that is nonlinear 
at the two-photon level, a photon number router that separates individual photons
and photon pairs into different output modes, and a single-photon switch in which
a single 'gate' photon controls the propagation of a subsequent probe field.
These techniques pave the way to integrated quantum nanophotonic networks
involving multiple atomic nodes connected by guided light.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13188 
PMID: 24717513 


705. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):237-40. doi: 10.1038/nature13177.

A quantum gate between a flying optical photon and a single trapped atom.

Reiserer A(1), Kalb N(1), Rempe G(1), Ritter S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Quantenoptik, Hans-Kopfermann-Strasse 1, 85748
Garching, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):195-6.

The steady increase in control over individual quantum systems supports the
promotion of a quantum technology that could provide functionalities beyond those
of any classical device. Two particularly promising applications have been
explored during the past decade: photon-based quantum communication, which
guarantees unbreakable encryption but which still has to be scaled to high rates 
over large distances, and quantum computation, which will fundamentally enhance
computability if it can be scaled to a large number of quantum bits (qubits). It 
was realized early on that a hybrid system of light qubits and matter qubits
could solve the scalability problem of each field--that of communication by use
of quantum repeaters, and that of computation by use of an optical interconnect
between smaller quantum processors. To this end, the development of a robust
two-qubit gate that allows the linking of distant computational nodes is "a
pressing challenge". Here we demonstrate such a quantum gate between the spin
state of a single trapped atom and the polarization state of an optical photon
contained in a faint laser pulse. The gate mechanism presented is deterministic
and robust, and is expected to be applicable to almost any matter qubit. It is
based on reflection of the photonic qubit from a cavity that provides strong
light-matter coupling. To demonstrate its versatility, we use the quantum gate to
create atom-photon, atom-photon-photon and photon-photon entangled states from
separable input states. We expect our experiment to enable various applications, 
including the generation of atomic and photonic cluster states and
Schrödinger-cat states, deterministic photonic Bell-state measurements, scalable 
quantum computation and quantum communication using a redundant quantum parity
code.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13177 
PMID: 24717512 


706. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):199-206. doi: 10.1038/nature13185. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

Transcriptional landscape of the prenatal human brain.

Miller JA(1), Ding SL(1), Sunkin SM(2), Smith KA(2), Ng L(2), Szafer A(2), Ebbert
A(2), Riley ZL(2), Royall JJ(2), Aiona K(2), Arnold JM(2), Bennet C(2),
Bertagnolli D(2), Brouner K(2), Butler S(2), Caldejon S(2), Carey A(2), Cuhaciyan
C(2), Dalley RA(2), Dee N(2), Dolbeare TA(2), Facer BA(2), Feng D(2), Fliss
TP(2), Gee G(2), Goldy J(2), Gourley L(2), Gregor BW(2), Gu G(2), Howard RE(2),
Jochim JM(2), Kuan CL(2), Lau C(2), Lee CK(2), Lee F(2), Lemon TA(2), Lesnar
P(2), McMurray B(2), Mastan N(2), Mosqueda N(2), Naluai-Cecchini T(3), Ngo NK(2),
Nyhus J(2), Oldre A(2), Olson E(2), Parente J(2), Parker PD(2), Parry SE(2),
Stevens A(4), Pletikos M(5), Reding M(2), Roll K(2), Sandman D(2), Sarreal M(2), 
Shapouri S(2), Shapovalova NV(2), Shen EH(2), Sjoquist N(2), Slaughterbeck CR(2),
Smith M(2), Sodt AJ(2), Williams D(2), Zöllei L(6), Fischl B(4), Gerstein MB(7), 
Geschwind DH(8), Glass IA(3), Hawrylycz MJ(2), Hevner RF(9), Huang H(10), Jones
AR(2), Knowles JA(11), Levitt P(12), Phillips JW(2), Sestan N(5), Wohnoutka P(2),
Dang C(2), Bernard A(2), Hohmann JG(2), Lein ES(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA [2].
(2)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA.
(3)Division of Genetic Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, University of
Washington, 1959 North East Pacific Street, Box 356320, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(4)1] Department of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Athinoula A. Martinos
Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown,
Massachusetts 02129, USA [2] Computer Science and AI Lab, MIT, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(5)Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale School
of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Athinoula A. Martinos Center 
for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown,
Massachusetts 02129, USA.
(7)1] Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Department of
Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06520, USA [2] Department of Computer Science, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(8)Program in Neurogenetics, Department of Neurology and Semel Institute David
Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(9)1] Center for Integrative Brain Research, Seattle Children's Research
Institute, Seattle, Washington 98101, USA [2] Department of Neurological Surgery,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98105, USA.
(10)Advanced Imaging Research Center, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas 75390, USA.
(11)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, and Department of Psychiatry, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.
(12)1] Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital, Los Angeles, California
90027, USA [2] Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089, USA.

The anatomical and functional architecture of the human brain is mainly
determined by prenatal transcriptional processes. We describe an anatomically
comprehensive atlas of the mid-gestational human brain, including de novo
reference atlases, in situ hybridization, ultra-high-resolution magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) and microarray analysis on highly discrete
laser-microdissected brain regions. In developing cerebral cortex,
transcriptional differences are found between different proliferative and
post-mitotic layers, wherein laminar signatures reflect cellular composition and 
developmental processes. Cytoarchitectural differences between human and mouse
have molecular correlates, including species differences in gene expression in
subplate, although surprisingly we find minimal differences between the inner and
outer subventricular zones even though the outer zone is expanded in humans. Both
germinal and post-mitotic cortical layers exhibit fronto-temporal gradients, with
particular enrichment in the frontal lobe. Finally, many neurodevelopmental
disorder and human-evolution-related genes show patterned expression, potentially
underlying unique features of human cortical formation. These data provide a
rich, freely-accessible resource for understanding human brain development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13185 
PMCID: PMC4105188
PMID: 24695229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):207-14. doi: 10.1038/nature13186. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

A mesoscale connectome of the mouse brain.

Oh SW(1), Harris JA(1), Ng L(1), Winslow B(2), Cain N(2), Mihalas S(2), Wang
Q(2), Lau C(2), Kuan L(2), Henry AM(2), Mortrud MT(2), Ouellette B(2), Nguyen
TN(2), Sorensen SA(2), Slaughterbeck CR(2), Wakeman W(2), Li Y(2), Feng D(2), Ho 
A(2), Nicholas E(2), Hirokawa KE(2), Bohn P(2), Joines KM(2), Peng H(2),
Hawrylycz MJ(2), Phillips JW(2), Hohmann JG(2), Wohnoutka P(2), Gerfen CR(3),
Koch C(2), Bernard A(2), Dang C(2), Jones AR(2), Zeng H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA [2].
(2)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience, National Institute of Mental Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    J Comp Neurol. 2014 Jun 15;522(9):1987-8.
    Cell. 2014 May 8;157(4):773-5.
    ACS Chem Neurosci. 2014 Jul 16;5(7):491-3.

Comprehensive knowledge of the brain's wiring diagram is fundamental for
understanding how the nervous system processes information at both local and
global scales. However, with the singular exception of the C. elegans microscale 
connectome, there are no complete connectivity data sets in other species. Here
we report a brain-wide, cellular-level, mesoscale connectome for the mouse. The
Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas uses enhanced green fluorescent protein
(EGFP)-expressing adeno-associated viral vectors to trace axonal projections from
defined regions and cell types, and high-throughput serial two-photon tomography 
to image the EGFP-labelled axons throughout the brain. This systematic and
standardized approach allows spatial registration of individual experiments into 
a common three dimensional (3D) reference space, resulting in a whole-brain
connectivity matrix. A computational model yields insights into connectional
strength distribution, symmetry and other network properties. Virtual
tractography illustrates 3D topography among interconnected regions.
Cortico-thalamic pathway analysis demonstrates segregation and integration of
parallel pathways. The Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Atlas is a freely
available, foundational resource for structural and functional investigations
into the neural circuits that support behavioural and cognitive processes in
health and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13186 
PMCID: PMC5102064
PMID: 24695228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interests. Readers are welcome to comment on the online version of the paper.


708. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):222-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13194. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

Stereospecific targeting of MTH1 by (S)-crizotinib as an anticancer strategy.

Huber KV(1), Salah E(2), Radic B(1), Gridling M(1), Elkins JM(2), Stukalov A(1), 
Jemth AS(3), Göktürk C(3), Sanjiv K(3), Strömberg K(3), Pham T(3), Berglund
UW(3), Colinge J(1), Bennett KL(1), Loizou JI(1), Helleday T(3), Knapp S(2),
Superti-Furga G(1).

Author information: 
(1)CeMM Research Center for Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of
Sciences, 1090 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Structural Genomics Consortium,
University of Oxford, Old Road Campus Research Building, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford 
OX3 7DQ, UK.
(3)Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and Chemical
Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, 17121 Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    DNA Repair (Amst). 2014 Sep;21:163-4.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):191-2.

Activated RAS GTPase signalling is a critical driver of oncogenic transformation 
and malignant disease. Cellular models of RAS-dependent cancers have been used to
identify experimental small molecules, such as SCH51344, but their molecular
mechanism of action remains generally unknown. Here, using a chemical proteomic
approach, we identify the target of SCH51344 as the human mutT homologue MTH1
(also known as NUDT1), a nucleotide pool sanitizing enzyme. Loss-of-function of
MTH1 impaired growth of KRAS tumour cells, whereas MTH1 overexpression mitigated 
sensitivity towards SCH51344. Searching for more drug-like inhibitors, we
identified the kinase inhibitor crizotinib as a nanomolar suppressor of MTH1
activity. Surprisingly, the clinically used (R)-enantiomer of the drug was
inactive, whereas the (S)-enantiomer selectively inhibited MTH1 catalytic
activity. Enzymatic assays, chemical proteomic profiling, kinome-wide activity
surveys and MTH1 co-crystal structures of both enantiomers provide a rationale
for this remarkable stereospecificity. Disruption of nucleotide pool homeostasis 
via MTH1 inhibition by (S)-crizotinib induced an increase in DNA single-strand
breaks, activated DNA repair in human colon carcinoma cells, and effectively
suppressed tumour growth in animal models. Our results propose (S)-crizotinib as 
an attractive chemical entity for further pre-clinical evaluation, and
small-molecule inhibitors of MTH1 in general as a promising novel class of
anticancer agents.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13194 
PMCID: PMC4150021
PMID: 24695225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):215-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13181. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

MTH1 inhibition eradicates cancer by preventing sanitation of the dNTP pool.

Gad H(1), Koolmeister T(1), Jemth AS(1), Eshtad S(1), Jacques SA(1), Ström CE(1),
Svensson LM(2), Schultz N(3), Lundbäck T(4), Einarsdottir BO(5), Saleh A(6),
Göktürk C(3), Baranczewski P(7), Svensson R(8), Berntsson RP(2), Gustafsson R(2),
Strömberg K(3), Sanjiv K(3), Jacques-Cordonnier MC(3), Desroses M(3), Gustavsson 
AL(4), Olofsson R(5), Johansson F(9), Homan EJ(3), Loseva O(3), Bräutigam L(3),
Johansson L(4), Höglund A(3), Hagenkort A(3), Pham T(3), Altun M(3), Gaugaz
FZ(7), Vikingsson S(10), Evers B(11), Henriksson M(3), Vallin KS(3), Wallner
OA(3), Hammarström LG(4), Wiita E(3), Almlöf I(3), Kalderén C(3), Axelsson H(4), 
Djureinovic T(12), Puigvert JC(3), Häggblad M(13), Jeppsson F(3), Martens U(13), 
Lundin C(3), Lundgren B(13), Granelli I(6), Jensen AJ(4), Artursson P(8), Nilsson
JA(5), Stenmark P(2), Scobie M(3), Berglund UW(3), Helleday T(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and
Chemical Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden [2].
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Stockholm University, S-106 91
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and Chemical
Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)1] Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and
Chemical Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden [2] Chemical Biology Consortium Sweden,
Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and Chemical
Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Sahlgrenska Translational Melanoma Group, Sahlgrenska Cancer Center,
Department of Surgery, University of Gothenburg and Sahlgrenska University
Hospital, S-405 30 Gothenburg, Sweden.
(6)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Stockholm University, S-106 91 Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(7)1] Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and
Chemical Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden [2] Uppsala University Drug Optimization
and Pharmaceutical Profiling Platform, Department of Pharmacy, Uppsala
University, S-751 23 Uppsala, Sweden.
(8)1] Chemical Biology Consortium Sweden, Science for Life Laboratory, Division
of Translational Medicine and Chemical Biology, Department of Medical
Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden
[2] Uppsala University Drug Optimization and Pharmaceutical Profiling Platform,
Department of Pharmacy, Uppsala University, S-751 23 Uppsala, Sweden.
(9)Department of Genetics, Microbiology and Toxicology, Stockholm University,
S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)1] Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and
Chemical Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden [2] Clinical Pharmacology, Department of
Medical and Health Sciences, Linköping University, S-58185 Linköping, Sweden.
(11)1] Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and
Chemical Biology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska
Institutet, S-171 21 Stockholm, Sweden [2] Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, 
The Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1006 Amsterdam, The Netherlands (B.E.);
Department of Immunology, Genetics, and Pathology, Uppsala University, S-751 23
Uppsala, Sweden (T.D.).
(12)1] Department of Genetics, Microbiology and Toxicology, Stockholm University,
S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden [2] Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, The
Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1006 Amsterdam, The Netherlands (B.E.); Department 
of Immunology, Genetics, and Pathology, Uppsala University, S-751 23 Uppsala,
Sweden (T.D.).
(13)Science for Life Laboratory, RNAi Cell Screening Facility, Department of
Biochemistry and Biophysics, Stockholm University, S-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2017 Apr 26;544(7651):508.

Comment in
    DNA Repair (Amst). 2014 Sep;21:163-4.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):191-2.

Cancers have dysfunctional redox regulation resulting in reactive oxygen species 
production, damaging both DNA and free dNTPs. The MTH1 protein sanitizes oxidized
dNTP pools to prevent incorporation of damaged bases during DNA replication.
Although MTH1 is non-essential in normal cells, we show that cancer cells require
MTH1 activity to avoid incorporation of oxidized dNTPs, resulting in DNA damage
and cell death. We validate MTH1 as an anticancer target in vivo and describe
small molecules TH287 and TH588 as first-in-class nudix hydrolase family
inhibitors that potently and selectively engage and inhibit the MTH1 protein in
cells. Protein co-crystal structures demonstrate that the inhibitors bind in the 
active site of MTH1. The inhibitors cause incorporation of oxidized dNTPs in
cancer cells, leading to DNA damage, cytotoxicity and therapeutic responses in
patient-derived mouse xenografts. This study exemplifies the non-oncogene
addiction concept for anticancer treatment and validates MTH1 as being cancer
phenotypic lethal.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13181 
PMID: 24695224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):233-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13153. Epub 2014 Apr 2.

Thermal fatigue as the origin of regolith on small asteroids.

Delbo M(1), Libourel G(2), Wilkerson J(3), Murdoch N(4), Michel P(1), Ramesh
KT(3), Ganino C(5), Verati C(5), Marchi S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire Lagrange, UNS-CNRS, Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, Boulevard de
l'Observatoire-CS 34229, 06304 Nice Cedex 4, France.
(2)1] Université de Lorraine, CRPG-CNRS, 15 Rue Notre-Dame des Pauvres, BP 20,
54501 Vandoeuvre les Nancy, France [2] Laboratoire Géoazur, UNS-CNRS,
Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, 250 rue Albert Einstein, Les Lucioles 1,
Sophia-Antipolis, 06560 Valbonne, France.
(3)Hopkins Extreme Materials Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Latrobe 122,
3400 North Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.
(4)1] Laboratoire Lagrange, UNS-CNRS, Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, Boulevard
de l'Observatoire-CS 34229, 06304 Nice Cedex 4, France [2] Institut Supérieur de 
l'Aéronautique et de l'Espace, 10 avenue Edouard-Belin, BP 54032, 31055 Toulouse 
Cedex 4, France.
(5)Laboratoire Géoazur, UNS-CNRS, Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, 250 rue Albert 
Einstein, Les Lucioles 1, Sophia-Antipolis, 06560 Valbonne, France.
(6)Solar System Exploration Research Virtual Institute, Institute for the Science
of Exploration Targets, Southwest Research Institute, 1050 Walnut Street, Suite
300 Boulder, Colorado 80302, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):190-1.

Space missions and thermal infrared observations have shown that small asteroids 
(kilometre-sized or smaller) are covered by a layer of centimetre-sized or
smaller particles, which constitute the regolith. Regolith generation has
traditionally been attributed to the fall back of impact ejecta and by the
break-up of boulders by micrometeoroid impact. Laboratory experiments and impact 
models, however, show that crater ejecta velocities are typically greater than
several tens of centimetres per second, which corresponds to the gravitational
escape velocity of kilometre-sized asteroids. Therefore, impact debris cannot be 
the main source of regolith on small asteroids. Here we report that thermal
fatigue, a mechanism of rock weathering and fragmentation with no subsequent
ejection, is the dominant process governing regolith generation on small
asteroids. We find that thermal fragmentation induced by the diurnal temperature 
variations breaks up rocks larger than a few centimetres more quickly than do
micrometeoroid impacts. Because thermal fragmentation is independent of asteroid 
size, this process can also contribute to regolith production on larger
asteroids. Production of fresh regolith originating in thermal fatigue
fragmentation may be an important process for the rejuvenation of the surfaces of
near-Earth asteroids, and may explain the observed lack of low-perihelion,
carbonaceous, near-Earth asteroids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13153 
PMID: 24695219 


711. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):245-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13033. Epub 2014 Mar 23.

Dynamics of continental accretion.

Moresi L(1), Betts PG(2), Miller MS(3), Cayley RA(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] School of Geosciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia
[2] School of Mathematical Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia [3] School of Earth Sciences, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria 3010, Australia.
(2)School of Geosciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089, USA.
(4)Geological Survey of Victoria, Melbourne, Victoria 3001, Australia.

Subduction zones become congested when they try to consume buoyant, exotic crust.
The accretionary mountain belts (orogens) that form at these convergent plate
margins have been the principal sites of lateral continental growth through
Earth's history. Modern examples of accretionary margins are the North American
Cordilleras and southwest Pacific subduction zones. The geologic record contains 
abundant accretionary orogens, such as the Tasmanides, along the eastern margin
of the supercontinent Gondwana, and the Altaïdes, which formed on the southern
margin of Laurasia. In modern and ancient examples of long-lived accretionary
orogens, the overriding plate is subjected to episodes of crustal extension and
back-arc basin development, often related to subduction rollback and transient
episodes of orogenesis and crustal shortening, coincident with accretion of
exotic crust. Here we present three-dimensional dynamic models that show how
accretionary margins evolve from the initial collision, through a period of plate
margin instability, to re-establishment of a stable convergent margin. The models
illustrate how significant curvature of the orogenic system develops, as well as 
the mechanism for tectonic escape of the back-arc region. The complexity of the
morphology and the evolution of the system are caused by lateral rollback of a
tightly arcuate trench migrating parallel to the plate boundary and orthogonally 
to the convergence direction. We find geological and geophysical evidence for
this process in the Tasmanides of eastern Australia, and infer that this is a
recurrent and global phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13033 
PMID: 24670638 


712. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):228-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13197. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Structure of the LH1-RC complex from Thermochromatium tepidum at 3.0 Å.

Niwa S(1), Yu LJ(2), Takeda K(1), Hirano Y(3), Kawakami T(4), Wang-Otomo ZY(4),
Miki K(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan [2].
(2)1] Faculty of Science, Ibaraki University, Mito, Ibaraki 310-8512, Japan [2].
(3)Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Science, Ibaraki University, Mito, Ibaraki 310-8512, Japan.

Comment in
    Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2014 Jul 28;53(31):7988-90.
    Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):196-7.

The light-harvesting core antenna (LH1) and the reaction centre (RC) of purple
photosynthetic bacteria form a supramolecular complex (LH1-RC) to use sunlight
energy in a highly efficient manner. Here we report the first near-atomic
structure, to our knowledge, of a LH1-RC complex, namely that of a Ca(2+)-bound
complex from Thermochromatium tepidum, which reveals detailed information on the 
arrangement and interactions of the protein subunits and the cofactors. The RC is
surrounded by 16 heterodimers of the LH1 αβ-subunit that form a completely closed
structure. The Ca(2+) ions are located at the periplasmic side of LH1. Thirty-two
bacteriochlorophyll and 16 spirilloxanthin molecules in the LH1 ring form an
elliptical assembly. The geometries of the pigment assembly involved in the
absorption characteristics of the bacteriochlorophyll in LH1 and excitation
energy transfer among the pigments are reported. In addition, possible ubiquinone
channels in the closed LH1 complex are proposed based on the atomic structure.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13197 
PMID: 24670637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):263-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13045. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

ZMYND11 links histone H3.3K36me3 to transcription elongation and tumour
suppression.

Wen H(1), Li Y(2), Xi Y(3), Jiang S(4), Stratton S(4), Peng D(4), Tanaka K(4),
Ren Y(5), Xia Z(6), Wu J(7), Li B(7), Barton MC(8), Li W(6), Li H(5), Shi X(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Center for Cancer
Epigenetics, Center for Genetics and Genomics, and Center for Stem Cell and
Developmental Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3].
(2)1] MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Sciences, Center for Structural Biology,
School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China [2]
Department of Basic Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China [3].
(3)1] Dan L. Duncan Cancer Center, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2].
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(5)1] MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Sciences, Center for Structural Biology,
School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China [2]
Department of Basic Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China.
(6)Dan L. Duncan Cancer Center, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(7)Department of Molecular Biology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(8)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Center for Cancer
Epigenetics, Center for Genetics and Genomics, and Center for Stem Cell and
Developmental Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3] Genes and Development Graduate Program, The
University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Houston, Teaxs 77030,
USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Jun;24(6):649-50.
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(14):2153-4.

Recognition of modified histones by 'reader' proteins plays a critical role in
the regulation of chromatin. H3K36 trimethylation (H3K36me3) is deposited onto
the nucleosomes in the transcribed regions after RNA polymerase II elongation. In
yeast, this mark in turn recruits epigenetic regulators to reset the chromatin to
a relatively repressive state, thus suppressing cryptic transcription. However,
much less is known about the role of H3K36me3 in transcription regulation in
mammals. This is further complicated by the transcription-coupled incorporation
of the histone variant H3.3 in gene bodies. Here we show that the candidate
tumour suppressor ZMYND11 specifically recognizes H3K36me3 on H3.3 (H3.3K36me3)
and regulates RNA polymerase II elongation. Structural studies show that in
addition to the trimethyl-lysine binding by an aromatic cage within the PWWP
domain, the H3.3-dependent recognition is mediated by the encapsulation of the
H3.3-specific 'Ser 31' residue in a composite pocket formed by the tandem
bromo-PWWP domains of ZMYND11. Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by
sequencing shows a genome-wide co-localization of ZMYND11 with H3K36me3 and H3.3 
in gene bodies, and its occupancy requires the pre-deposition of H3.3K36me3.
Although ZMYND11 is associated with highly expressed genes, it functions as an
unconventional transcription co-repressor by modulating RNA polymerase II at the 
elongation stage. ZMYND11 is critical for the repression of a transcriptional
program that is essential for tumour cell growth; low expression levels of
ZMYND11 in breast cancer patients correlate with worse prognosis. Consistently,
overexpression of ZMYND11 suppresses cancer cell growth in vitro and tumour
formation in mice. Together, this study identifies ZMYND11 as an H3.3-specific
reader of H3K36me3 that links the histone-variant-mediated transcription
elongation control to tumour suppression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13045 
PMCID: PMC4142212
PMID: 24590075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):269-73. doi: 10.1038/nature13034. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Direct measurement of local oxygen concentration in the bone marrow of live
animals.

Spencer JA(1), Ferraro F(2), Roussakis E(3), Klein A(2), Wu J(4), Runnels JM(4), 
Zaher W(5), Mortensen LJ(4), Alt C(4), Turcotte R(6), Yusuf R(2), Côté D(7),
Vinogradov SA(8), Scadden DT(2), Lin CP(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Center for Systems Biology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA [3] Department of Biomedical Engineering, Tufts University, Medford,
Massachusetts 02155, USA.
(2)1] Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Harvard Stem Cell Institute,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(3)1] Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Department of Biochemistry
and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104,
USA.
(4)1] Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Center for Systems Biology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA.
(5)1] Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Center for Systems Biology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA [3] Stem Cell Unit, Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, King
Saud University, Riyadh 11461, Saudi Arabia.
(6)1] Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Center for Systems Biology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA [3] Department of Biomedical Engineering, Boston University, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(7)Département de Physique, Génie Physique et Optique and Centre de Recherche de 
l'Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de Québec, Université Laval, Québec
City, Québec G1J 2G3, Canada.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(9)1] Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [2] Center for Systems Biology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA [3] Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Characterization of how the microenvironment, or niche, regulates stem cell
activity is central to understanding stem cell biology and to developing
strategies for the therapeutic manipulation of stem cells. Low oxygen tension
(hypoxia) is commonly thought to be a shared niche characteristic in maintaining 
quiescence in multiple stem cell types. However, support for the existence of a
hypoxic niche has largely come from indirect evidence such as proteomic analysis,
expression of hypoxia inducible factor-1α (Hif-1α) and related genes, and
staining with surrogate hypoxic markers (for example, pimonidazole). Here we
perform direct in vivo measurements of local oxygen tension (pO2) in the bone
marrow of live mice. Using two-photon phosphorescence lifetime microscopy, we
determined the absolute pO2 of the bone marrow to be quite low (<32 mm Hg)
despite very high vascular density. We further uncovered heterogeneities in local
pO2, with the lowest pO2 (∼9.9 mm Hg, or 1.3%) found in deeper peri-sinusoidal
regions. The endosteal region, by contrast, is less hypoxic as it is perfused
with small arteries that are often positive for the marker nestin. These pO2
values change markedly after radiation and chemotherapy, pointing to the role of 
stress in altering the stem cell metabolic microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13034 
PMCID: PMC3984353
PMID: 24590072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature13005. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Detection and replication of epistasis influencing transcription in humans.

Hemani G(1), Shakhbazov K(1), Westra HJ(2), Esko T(3), Henders AK(4), McRae
AF(1), Yang J(5), Gibson G(6), Martin NG(4), Metspalu A(7), Franke L(2),
Montgomery GW(8), Visscher PM(9), Powell JE(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 
4072, Australia [2] University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, University of 
Queensland, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(2)Department of Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen, University of
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)1] Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010, Estonia [2]
Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142,
USA [3] Divisions of Endocrinology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(4)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Queensland 4006,
Australia.
(5)Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland
4072, Australia.
(6)School of Biology and Centre for Integrative Genomics, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332, USA.
(7)Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010, Estonia.
(8)1] Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Queensland 4006,
Australia [2].
(9)1] Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 
4072, Australia [2] University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, University of 
Queensland, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia
[3].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):E5-6.
    Nature. 2014 Oct 2;514(7520):E3-5.

Epistasis is the phenomenon whereby one polymorphism's effect on a trait depends 
on other polymorphisms present in the genome. The extent to which epistasis
influences complex traits and contributes to their variation is a fundamental
question in evolution and human genetics. Although often demonstrated in
artificial gene manipulation studies in model organisms, and some examples have
been reported in other species, few examples exist for epistasis among natural
polymorphisms in human traits. Its absence from empirical findings may simply be 
due to low incidence in the genetic control of complex traits, but an alternative
view is that it has previously been too technically challenging to detect owing
to statistical and computational issues. Here we show, using advanced computation
and a gene expression study design, that many instances of epistasis are found
between common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). In a cohort of 846
individuals with 7,339 gene expression levels measured in peripheral blood, we
found 501 significant pairwise interactions between common SNPs influencing the
expression of 238 genes (P < 2.91 × 10(-16)). Replication of these interactions
in two independent data sets showed both concordance of direction of epistatic
effects (P = 5.56 × 10(-31)) and enrichment of interaction P values, with 30
being significant at a conservative threshold of P < 9.98 × 10(-5). Forty-four of
the genetic interactions are located within 5 megabases of regions of known
physical chromosome interactions (P = 1.8 × 10(-10)). Epistatic networks of three
SNPs or more influence the expression levels of 129 genes, whereby one cis-acting
SNP is modulated by several trans-acting SNPs. For example, MBNL1 is influenced
by an additive effect at rs13069559, which itself is masked by trans-SNPs on 14
different chromosomes, with nearly identical genotype-phenotype maps for each
cis-trans interaction. This study presents the first evidence, to our knowledge, 
for many instances of segregating common polymorphisms interacting to influence
human traits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13005 
PMCID: PMC3984375
PMID: 24572353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):254-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13016. Epub 2014 Feb 16.

A synchronized global sweep of the internal genes of modern avian influenza
virus.

Worobey M(1), Han GZ(1), Rambaut A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson,
Arizona 85721, USA.
(2)1] Institute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9
3JT, UK [2] Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Apr;12(4):237.

Zoonotic infectious diseases such as influenza continue to pose a grave threat to
human health. However, the factors that mediate the emergence of RNA viruses such
as influenza A virus (IAV) are still incompletely understood. Phylogenetic
inference is crucial to reconstructing the origins and tracing the flow of IAV
within and between hosts. Here we show that explicitly allowing IAV host lineages
to have independent rates of molecular evolution is necessary for reliable
phylogenetic inference of IAV and that methods that do not do so, including
'relaxed' molecular clock models, can be positively misleading. A phylogenomic
analysis using a host-specific local clock model recovers extremely consistent
evolutionary histories across all genomic segments and demonstrates that the
equine H7N7 lineage is a sister clade to strains from birds--as well as those
from humans, swine and the equine H3N8 lineage--sharing an ancestor with them in 
the mid to late 1800s. Moreover, major western and eastern hemisphere avian
influenza lineages inferred for each gene coalesce in the late 1800s. On the
basis of these phylogenies and the synchrony of these key nodes, we infer that
the internal genes of avian influenza virus (AIV) underwent a global selective
sweep beginning in the late 1800s, a process that continued throughout the
twentieth century and up to the present. The resulting western hemispheric AIV
lineage subsequently contributed most of the genomic segments to the 1918
pandemic virus and, independently, the 1963 equine H3N8 panzootic lineage. This
approach provides a clear resolution of evolutionary patterns and processes in
IAV, including the flow of viral genes and genomes within and between host
lineages.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13016 
PMCID: PMC4098125
PMID: 24531761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):113-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13187.

Tumour cell heterogeneity maintained by cooperating subclones in Wnt-driven
mammary cancers.

Cleary AS(1), Leonard TL(1), Gestl SA(1), Gunther EJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Jake Gittlen Laboratories for Cancer Research, Pennsylvania State
University College of Medicine, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA [2] Penn State
Hershey Cancer Institute, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine,
Hershey, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA.
(2)1] Jake Gittlen Laboratories for Cancer Research, Pennsylvania State
University College of Medicine, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA [2] Penn State
Hershey Cancer Institute, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine,
Hershey, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA [3] Department of Medicine
(Hematology/Oncology), Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine,
Hershey, Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):52-3.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 May;14(5):294.

Cancer genome sequencing studies indicate that a single breast cancer typically
harbours multiple genetically distinct subclones. As carcinogenesis involves a
breakdown in the cell-cell cooperation that normally maintains epithelial tissue 
architecture, individual subclones within a malignant microenvironment are
commonly depicted as self-interested competitors. Alternatively, breast cancer
subclones might interact cooperatively to gain a selective growth advantage in
some cases. Although interclonal cooperation has been shown to drive
tumorigenesis in fruitfly models, definitive evidence for functional cooperation 
between epithelial tumour cell subclones in mammals is lacking. Here we use mouse
models of breast cancer to show that interclonal cooperation can be essential for
tumour maintenance. Aberrant expression of the secreted signalling molecule Wnt1 
generates mixed-lineage mammary tumours composed of basal and luminal tumour cell
subtypes, which purportedly derive from a bipotent malignant progenitor cell
residing atop a tumour cell hierarchy. Using somatic Hras mutations as clonal
markers, we show that some Wnt tumours indeed conform to a hierarchical
configuration, but that others unexpectedly harbour genetically distinct basal
Hras mutant and luminal Hras wild-type subclones. Both subclones are required for
efficient tumour propagation, which strictly depends on luminally produced Wnt1. 
When biclonal tumours were challenged with Wnt withdrawal to simulate targeted
therapy, analysis of tumour regression and relapse revealed that basal subclones 
recruit heterologous Wnt-producing cells to restore tumour growth. Alternatively,
in the absence of a substitute Wnt source, the original subclones often evolve to
rescue Wnt pathway activation and drive relapse, either by restoring cooperation 
or by switching to a defector strategy. Uncovering similar modes of interclonal
cooperation in human cancers may inform efforts aimed at eradicating tumour cell 
communities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13187 
PMCID: PMC4050741
PMID: 24695311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):84-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13172.

Highly siderophile elements in Earth's mantle as a clock for the Moon-forming
impact.

Jacobson SA(1), Morbidelli A(2), Raymond SN(3), O'Brien DP(4), Walsh KJ(5), Rubie
DC(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, Laboratoire Lagrange, Boulevard de
l'Observatoire, BP 4229, 06304 Nice Cedex 4, France [2] Universität Bayreuth,
Bayerisches Geoinstitut, 95440 Bayreuth, Germany.
(2)Observatoire de la Côte d'Azur, Laboratoire Lagrange, Boulevard de
l'Observatoire, BP 4229, 06304 Nice Cedex 4, France.
(3)1] Universite Bordeaux, Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Bordeaux, UMR 5804,
33270 Floirac, France [2] CNRS, Laboratoire d'Astrophysique de Bordeaux, UMR
5804, 33270 Floirac, France.
(4)Planetary Science Institute, 1700 East Fort Lowell, Suite 106, Tucson, Arizona
85719, USA.
(5)Southwest Research Institute, Planetary Science Directorate, 1050 Walnut
Street, Suite 300, Boulder, Colorado 80302, USA.
(6)Universität Bayreuth, Bayerisches Geoinstitut, 95440 Bayreuth, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):51-2.

According to the generally accepted scenario, the last giant impact on Earth
formed the Moon and initiated the final phase of core formation by melting
Earth's mantle. A key goal of geochemistry is to date this event, but different
ages have been proposed. Some argue for an early Moon-forming event,
approximately 30 million years (Myr) after the condensation of the first solids
in the Solar System, whereas others claim a date later than 50 Myr (and possibly 
as late as around 100 Myr) after condensation. Here we show that a Moon-forming
event at 40 Myr after condensation, or earlier, is ruled out at a 99.9 per cent
confidence level. We use a large number of N-body simulations to demonstrate a
relationship between the time of the last giant impact on an Earth-like planet
and the amount of mass subsequently added during the era known as Late Accretion.
As the last giant impact is delayed, the late-accreted mass decreases in a
predictable fashion. This relationship exists within both the classical scenario 
and the Grand Tack scenario of terrestrial planet formation, and holds across a
wide range of disk conditions. The concentration of highly siderophile elements
(HSEs) in Earth's mantle constrains the mass of chondritic material added to
Earth during Late Accretion. Using HSE abundance measurements, we determine a
Moon-formation age of 95 ± 32 Myr after condensation. The possibility exists that
some late projectiles were differentiated and left an incomplete HSE record in
Earth's mantle. Even in this case, various isotopic constraints strongly suggest 
that the late-accreted mass did not exceed 1 per cent of Earth's mass, and so the
HSE clock still robustly limits the timing of the Moon-forming event to
significantly later than 40 Myr after condensation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13172 
PMID: 24695310 


719. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):76-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12996. Epub 2014 Mar 9.

Efficient rotational cooling of Coulomb-crystallized molecular ions by a helium
buffer gas.

Hansen AK(1), Versolato OO(2), Kłosowski L(3), Kristensen SB(1), Gingell A(1),
Schwarz M(2), Windberger A(2), Ullrich J(4), López-Urrutia JR(2), Drewsen M(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Danish National Research Foundation Center for Quantum Optics - QUANTOP,
Department of Physics and Astronomy, Aarhus University, DK-8000 Aarhus C,
Denmark.
(2)Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(3)Institute of Physics, Faculty of Physics, Astronomy and Informatics, Nicolaus 
Copernicus University, Grudziadzka 5, 87-100 Torun, Poland.
(4)1] Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, D-69117 Heidelberg, 
Germany [2] Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt, Bundesallee 100, D-38116
Braunschweig, Germany.

The preparation of cold molecules is of great importance in many contexts, such
as fundamental physics investigations, high-resolution spectroscopy of complex
molecules, cold chemistry and astrochemistry. One versatile and widely applied
method to cool molecules is helium buffer-gas cooling in either a supersonic beam
expansion or a cryogenic trap environment. Another more recent method applicable 
to trapped molecular ions relies on sympathetic translational cooling, through
collisional interactions with co-trapped, laser-cooled atomic ions, into
spatially ordered structures called Coulomb crystals, combined with
laser-controlled internal-state preparation. Here we present experimental results
on helium buffer-gas cooling of the rotational degrees of freedom of MgH(+)
molecular ions, which have been trapped and sympathetically cooled in a cryogenic
linear radio-frequency quadrupole trap. With helium collision rates of only about
ten per second--that is, four to five orders of magnitude lower than in typical
buffer-gas cooling settings--we have cooled a single molecular ion to a
rotational temperature of 7.5(+0.9)(-0.7) kelvin, the lowest such temperature so 
far measured. In addition, by varying the shape of, or the number of atomic and
molecular ions in, larger Coulomb crystals, or both, we have tuned the effective 
rotational temperature from about 7 kelvin to about 60 kelvin by changing the
translational micromotion energy of the ions. The extremely low helium collision 
rate may allow for sympathetic sideband cooling of single molecular ions, and
eventually make quantum-logic spectroscopy of buffer-gas-cooled molecular ions
feasible. Furthermore, application of the present cooling scheme to complex
molecular ions should enable single- or few-state manipulations of individual
molecules of biological interest.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12996 
PMID: 24670662 


720. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):80-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13018. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Coherent control of the waveforms of recoilless γ-ray photons.

Vagizov F(1), Antonov V(2), Radeonychev YV(2), Shakhmuratov RN(3), Kocharovskaya 
O(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy and Institute for Quantum Science and
Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843-4242, USA [2]
Kazan Federal University, Kazan 420008, Russia [3] Kazan Physical-Technical
Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Kazan 420029, Russia.
(2)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy and Institute for Quantum Science and
Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843-4242, USA [2]
Institute of Applied Physics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Nizhny Novgorod 
603950, Russia [3] N.I. Lobachevsky State University, Nizhny Novgorod 603950,
Russia.
(3)1] Kazan Federal University, Kazan 420008, Russia [2] Kazan Physical-Technical
Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Kazan 420029, Russia.
(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy and Institute for Quantum Science and
Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843-4242, USA.

The concepts and ideas of coherent, nonlinear and quantum optics have been
extended to photon energies in the range of 10-100 kiloelectronvolts,
corresponding to soft γ-ray radiation (the term used when the radiation is
produced in nuclear transitions) or, equivalently, hard X-ray radiation (the term
used when the radiation is produced by electron motion). The recent experimental 
achievements in this energy range include the demonstration of parametric
down-conversion in the Langevin regime, electromagnetically induced transparency 
in a cavity, the collective Lamb shift, vacuum-assisted generation of atomic
coherences and single-photon revival in nuclear absorbing multilayer structures. 
Also, realization of single-photon coherent storage and stimulated Raman
adiabatic passage were recently proposed in this regime. More related work is
discussed in a recent review. However, the number of tools for the coherent
manipulation of interactions between γ-ray photons and nuclear ensembles remains 
limited. Here we suggest and implement an efficient method to control the
waveforms of γ-ray photons coherently. In particular, we demonstrate the
conversion of individual recoilless γ-ray photons into a coherent, ultrashort
pulse train and into a double pulse. Our method is based on the resonant
interaction of γ-ray photons with an ensemble of nuclei with a resonant
transition frequency that is periodically modulated in time. The frequency
modulation, which is achieved by a uniform vibration of the resonant absorber,
owing to the Doppler effect, renders resonant absorption and dispersion both time
dependent, allowing us to shape the waveforms of the incident γ-ray photons. We
expect that this technique will lead to advances in the emerging fields of
coherent and quantum γ-ray photon optics, providing a basis for the realization
of γ-ray-photon/nuclear-ensemble interfaces and quantum interference effects at
nuclear γ-ray transitions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13018 
PMID: 24670656 


721. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):123-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13158. Epub 2014 Mar 19.

Maternal retinoids control type 3 innate lymphoid cells and set the offspring
immunity.

van de Pavert SA(1), Ferreira M(2), Domingues RG(3), Ribeiro H(3), Molenaar R(4),
Moreira-Santos L(3), Almeida FF(3), Ibiza S(3), Barbosa I(3), Goverse G(4),
Labão-Almeida C(3), Godinho-Silva C(3), Konijn T(4), Schooneman D(4), O'Toole
T(4), Mizee MR(4), Habani Y(4), Haak E(5), Santori FR(6), Littman DR(6),
Schulte-Merker S(7), Dzierzak E(5), Simas JP(3), Mebius RE(8), Veiga-Fernandes
H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, VU University Medical 
Center, van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2] Hubrecht
Institute-KNAW (Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences) and University
Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CT Utrecht, Netherlands. [3].
(2)1] Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Av. Prof.
Egas Moniz, Edifício Egas Moniz, 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal [2].
(3)Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculdade de Medicina de Lisboa, Av. Prof.
Egas Moniz, Edifício Egas Moniz, 1649-028 Lisboa, Portugal.
(4)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, VU University Medical
Center, van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Erasmus Stem Cell Institute, Department of Cell Biology, Erasmus Medical
Center, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular Pathogenesis Program, Skirball
Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New
York, New York 10016, USA.
(7)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW (Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences) and
University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CT Utrecht, Netherlands.
(8)1] Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, VU University Medical 
Center, van der Boechorststraat 7, 1081BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):47-8.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 May;14(5):284-5.

The impact of nutritional status during fetal life on the overall health of
adults has been recognized; however, dietary effects on the developing immune
system are largely unknown. Development of secondary lymphoid organs occurs
during embryogenesis and is considered to be developmentally programmed.
Secondary lymphoid organ formation depends on a subset of type 3 innate lymphoid 
cells (ILC3) named lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells. Here we show that mouse
fetal ILC3s are controlled by cell-autonomous retinoic acid (RA) signalling in
utero, which pre-sets the immune fitness in adulthood. We found that embryonic
lymphoid organs contain ILC progenitors that differentiate locally into mature
LTi cells. Local LTi cell differentiation was controlled by maternal retinoid
intake and fetal RA signalling acting in a haematopoietic cell-autonomous manner.
RA controlled LTi cell maturation upstream of the transcription factor RORγt.
Accordingly, enforced expression of Rorgt restored maturation of LTi cells with
impaired RA signalling, whereas RA receptors directly regulated the Rorgt locus. 
Finally, we established that maternal levels of dietary retinoids control the
size of secondary lymphoid organs and the efficiency of immune responses in the
adult offspring. Our results reveal a molecular link between maternal nutrients
and the formation of immune structures required for resistance to infection in
the offspring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13158 
PMCID: PMC4932833
PMID: 24670648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):55-60. doi: 10.1038/nature13165. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Capillary pericytes regulate cerebral blood flow in health and disease.

Hall CN(#)(1), Reynell C(#)(1), Gesslein B(#)(2), Hamilton NB(#)(1), Mishra
A(#)(1), Sutherland BA(3), O'Farrell FM(1), Buchan AM(3), Lauritzen M(2), Attwell
D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology & Pharmacology University College
London, Gower St., London, WC1E 6BT, UK.
(2)Department of Neuroscience & Pharmacology and Center for Healthy Aging, and
Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Glostrup Hospital, University of
Copenhagen, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(3)Acute Stroke Programme, Radcliffe Department of Medicine, University of
Oxford, Oxford, OX3 9DU, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):50-1.

Increases in brain blood flow, evoked by neuronal activity, power neural
computation and form the basis of BOLD (blood-oxygen-level-dependent) functional 
imaging. Whether blood flow is controlled solely by arteriole smooth muscle, or
also by capillary pericytes, is controversial. We demonstrate that neuronal
activity and the neurotransmitter glutamate evoke the release of messengers that 
dilate capillaries by actively relaxing pericytes. Dilation is mediated by
prostaglandin E2, but requires nitric oxide release to suppress vasoconstricting 
20-HETE synthesis. In vivo, when sensory input increases blood flow, capillaries 
dilate before arterioles and are estimated to produce 84% of the blood flow
increase. In pathology, ischaemia evokes capillary constriction by pericytes. We 
show that this is followed by pericyte death in rigor, which may irreversibly
constrict capillaries and damage the blood-brain barrier. Thus, pericytes are
major regulators of cerebral blood flow and initiators of functional imaging
signals. Prevention of pericyte constriction and death may reduce the
long-lasting blood flow decrease that damages neurons after stroke.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13165 
PMCID: PMC3976267
PMID: 24670647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):72-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13155. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

A ring system detected around the Centaur (10199) Chariklo.

Braga-Ribas F(1), Sicardy B(2), Ortiz JL(3), Snodgrass C(4), Roques F(2),
Vieira-Martins R(5), Camargo JI(1), Assafin M(6), Duffard R(3), Jehin E(7),
Pollock J(8), Leiva R(9), Emilio M(10), Machado DI(11), Colazo C(12), Lellouch
E(2), Skottfelt J(13), Gillon M(7), Ligier N(2), Maquet L(2), Benedetti-Rossi
G(1), Ramos Gomes A Jr(6), Kervella P(2), Monteiro H(14), Sfair R(15), El
Moutamid M(16), Tancredi G(17), Spagnotto J(18), Maury A(19), Morales N(3),
Gil-Hutton R(20), Roland S(21), Ceretta A(22), Gu SH(23), Wang XB(23), Harpsøe
K(13), Rabus M(24), Manfroid J(7), Opitom C(7), Vanzi L(25), Mehret L(10),
Lorenzini L(26), Schneiter EM(27), Melia R(28), Lecacheux J(2), Colas F(29),
Vachier F(29), Widemann T(2), Almenares L(17), Sandness RG(19), Char F(30), Perez
V(17), Lemos P(31), Martinez N(17), Jørgensen UG(13), Dominik M(32), Roig F(1),
Reichart DE(33), LaCluyze AP(33), Haislip JB(33), Ivarsen KM(33), Moore JP(33),
Frank NR(33), Lambas DG(34).

Author information: 
(1)Observatório Nacional/MCTI, Rua General José Cristino 77, CEP 20921-400 Rio de
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)LESIA, Observatoire de Paris, CNRS UMR 8109, Université Pierre et Marie Curie,
Université Paris-Diderot, 5 place Jules Janssen, F-92195 Meudon Cedex, France.
(3)Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía, CSIC, Apartado 3004, 18080 Granada,
Spain.
(4)Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research, Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 3, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.
(5)1] Observatório Nacional/MCTI, Rua General José Cristino 77, CEP 20921-400 Rio
de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil [2] Observatório do Valongo/UFRJ, Ladeira Pedro Antonio
43, CEP 20.080-090 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil [3] Observatoire de Paris, IMCCE,
UPMC, CNRS, 77 Avenue Denfert-Rochereau, 75014 Paris, France.
(6)Observatório do Valongo/UFRJ, Ladeira Pedro Antonio 43, CEP 20.080-090 Rio de 
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(7)Institut d'Astrophysique de l'Université de Liège, Allée du 6 Août 17, B-4000 
Liège, Belgium.
(8)Physics and Astronomy Department, Appalachian State University, Boone, North
Carolina 28608, USA.
(9)Instituto de Astrofísica, Facultad de Física, Pontificia Universidad Católica 
de Chile, Avenida Vicuña Mackenna 4860, Santiago 7820436, Chile.
(10)Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa, O.A. - DEGEO, Avenida Carlos
Cavalcanti 4748, Ponta Grossa 84030-900, PR, Brazil.
(11)1] Polo Astronômico Casimiro Montenegro Filho/FPTI-BR, Avenida Tancredo Neves
6731, CEP 85867-900, Foz do Iguaçu, PR, Brazil [2] Universidade Estadual do Oeste
do Paraná (Unioeste), Avenda Tarquínio Joslin dos Santos, 1300, CEP 85870-650,
Foz do Iguaçu, PR, Brazil.
(12)1] Ministerio de Educación de la Provincia de Córdoba, Santa Rosa 751,
Córdoba 5000, Argentina [2] Observatorio Astronómico, Universidad Nacional de
Córdoba, Laprida 854, Córdoba 5000, Argentina.
(13)1] Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane Maries vej 30,
2100 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] Centre for Star and Planet Formation, Geological
Museum, Øster Voldgade 5, 1350 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(14)Instituto de Física e Química, Avenida BPS 1303, CEP 37500-903, Itajubá, MG, 
Brazil.
(15)UNESP - Universidade Estadual Paulista, Avenida Ariberto Pereira da Cunha,
333, CEP 12516-410 Guaratinguetá, SP, Brazil.
(16)1] LESIA, Observatoire de Paris, CNRS UMR 8109, Université Pierre et Marie
Curie, Université Paris-Diderot, 5 place Jules Janssen, F-92195 Meudon Cedex,
France [2] Observatoire de Paris, IMCCE, UPMC, CNRS, 77 Avenue Denfert-Rochereau,
75014 Paris, France.
(17)1] Observatorio Astronomico Los Molinos, DICYT, MEC, 12400 Montevideo,
Uruguay [2] Departamento de Astronomia, Facultad Ciencias, Universidad de la
República, 11300 Montevideo, Uruguay.
(18)Observatorio El Catalejo, Mussio 255, Santa Rosa, La Pampa 6300, Argentina.
(19)San Pedro de Atacama Celestial Explorations, Casilla 21, San Pedro de Atacama
1410000, Chile.
(20)Complejo Astronómico El Leoncito (CASLEO) and San Juan National University,
Avenida España 1512 sur, J5402DSP, San Juan, Argentina.
(21)Observatorio Astronomico Los Molinos, DICYT, MEC, 12400 Montevideo, Uruguay.
(22)1] Departamento de Astronomia, Facultad Ciencias, Universidad de la
República, 11300 Montevideo, Uruguay [2] Observatorio del IPA, Consejo de
Formación en Educación, 11800 Montevideo, Uruguay.
(23)1] Yunnan Observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650011, China
[2] Key Laboratory for the Structure and Evolution of Celestial Objects, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650011, China.
(24)1] Instituto de Astrofísica, Facultad de Física, Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile, Avenida Vicuña Mackenna 4860, Santiago 7820436, Chile [2] Max 
Planck Institute for Astronomy, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(25)Department of Electrical Engineering and Center of Astro-Engineering,
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Avenida Vicuña Mackenna 4860, Santiago 
7820436, Chile.
(26)Polo Astronômico Casimiro Montenegro Filho/FPTI-BR, Avenida Tancredo Neves
6731, CEP 85867-900, Foz do Iguaçu, PR, Brazil.
(27)1] Observatorio Astronómico, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Laprida 854,
Córdoba 5000, Argentina [2] Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y
Técnicas (CONICET), Córdoba 5000, Argentina [3] Instituto de Astronomía Teórica y
Experimental IATE-CONICET, Córdoba 5000, Argentina [4] Facultad de Ciências
Exactas, Físicas y Naturales, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba (UNC), Córdoba
5000, Argentina.
(28)Observatorio Astronómico, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Laprida 854,
Córdoba 5000, Argentina.
(29)Observatoire de Paris, IMCCE, UPMC, CNRS, 77 Avenue Denfert-Rochereau, 75014 
Paris, France.
(30)Unidad de Astronomía, Facultad de Ciencias Básicas, Universidad de
Antofagasta, Avenida Angamos 601, Antofagasta, Region II, Chile.
(31)Departamento de Astronomia, Facultad Ciencias, Universidad de la República,
11300 Montevideo, Uruguay.
(32)Scottish Universities Physics Alliance, University of St Andrews, School of
Physics and Astronomy, North Haugh, St Andrews KY16 9SS, UK.
(33)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of North Carolina - Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(34)1] Observatorio Astronómico, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Laprida 854,
Córdoba 5000, Argentina [2] Instituto de Astronomía Teórica y Experimental
IATE-CONICET, Córdoba 5000, Argentina.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):48-9.

Hitherto, rings have been found exclusively around the four giant planets in the 
Solar System. Rings are natural laboratories in which to study dynamical
processes analogous to those that take place during the formation of planetary
systems and galaxies. Their presence also tells us about the origin and evolution
of the body they encircle. Here we report observations of a multichord stellar
occultation that revealed the presence of a ring system around (10199) Chariklo, 
which is a Centaur--that is, one of a class of small objects orbiting primarily
between Jupiter and Neptune--with an equivalent radius of 124 ±  9 kilometres
(ref. 2). There are two dense rings, with respective widths of about 7 and 3
kilometres, optical depths of 0.4 and 0.06, and orbital radii of 391 and 405
kilometres. The present orientation of the ring is consistent with an edge-on
geometry in 2008, which provides a simple explanation for the dimming of the
Chariklo system between 1997 and 2008, and for the gradual disappearance of ice
and other absorption features in its spectrum over the same period. This implies 
that the rings are partly composed of water ice. They may be the remnants of a
debris disk, possibly confined by embedded, kilometre-sized satellites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13155 
PMID: 24670644 


724. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):98-102. doi: 10.1038/nature13115. Epub 2014 Mar 23.

Constitutional and somatic rearrangement of chromosome 21 in acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia.

Li Y(#)(1), Schwab C(#)(2), Ryan S(#)(2), Papaemmanuil E(1), Robinson HM(3),
Jacobs P(4), Moorman AV(2), Dyer S(3)(5), Borrow J(3)(5), Griffiths M(3)(5),
Heerema NA(6), Carroll AJ(7), Talley P(8), Bown N(9), Telford N(10), Ross FM(4), 
Gaunt L(11), McNally RJQ(12), Young BD(2), Sinclair P(2), Rand V(2), Teixeira
MR(13), Joseph O(1), Robinson B(1), Maddison M(1), Dastugue N(14), Vandenberghe
P(15), Stephens PJ(1), Cheng J(15)(16), Van Loo P(1)(15), Stratton MR(1),
Campbell PJ(#)(1)(17), Harrison CJ(#)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK.
(2)Leukaemia Research Cytogenetics Group, Northern Institute for Cancer Research,
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)West Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratory, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation 
Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(4)Wessex Regional Genetics Laboratory, Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust,
Salisbury, UK.
(5)School of Cancer Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(6)Department of Pathology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH.
(7)Department of Genetics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL.
(8)Sheffield Diagnostic Genetics Service, Sheffield Children's NHS Foundation
Trust, Sheffield, UK.
(9)Cytogenetics Laboratory, Northern Genetics Service, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(10)Oncology Cytogenetics, The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(11)Regional Cytogenetics Unit, Genetic Medicine, Central Manchester University
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Saint Mary's Hospital, Manchester, UK.
(12)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne,
UK.
(13)Genetics Department, Portuguese Oncology Institute, and Biomedical Sciences
Institute (ICBAS), Porto University, Portugal.
(14)Laboratoire d'hématologie, Génétique des Hémopathies, Hôpital Purpan,
Toulouse, France.
(15)Center for Human Genetics, University Hospital Leuven and KU Leuven, Leuven, 
Belgium.
(16)Department of Electrical Engineering - ESAT, University of Leuven, Leuven,
Belgium.
(17)Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Changes in gene dosage are a major driver of cancer, known to be caused by a
finite, but increasingly well annotated, repertoire of mutational mechanisms.
This can potentially generate correlated copy-number alterations across hundreds 
of linked genes, as exemplified by the 2% of childhood acute lymphoblastic
leukaemia (ALL) with recurrent amplification of megabase regions of chromosome 21
(iAMP21). We used genomic, cytogenetic and transcriptional analysis, coupled with
novel bioinformatic approaches, to reconstruct the evolution of iAMP21 ALL. Here 
we show that individuals born with the rare constitutional Robertsonian
translocation between chromosomes 15 and 21, rob(15;21)(q10;q10)c, have
approximately 2,700-fold increased risk of developing iAMP21 ALL compared to the 
general population. In such cases, amplification is initiated by a chromothripsis
event involving both sister chromatids of the Robertsonian chromosome, a novel
mechanism for cancer predisposition. In sporadic iAMP21, breakage-fusion-bridge
cycles are typically the initiating event, often followed by chromothripsis. In
both sporadic and rob(15;21)c-associated iAMP21, the final stages frequently
involve duplications of the entire abnormal chromosome. The end-product is a
derivative of chromosome 21 or the rob(15;21)c chromosome with gene dosage
optimized for leukaemic potential, showing constrained copy-number levels over
multiple linked genes. Thus, dicentric chromosomes may be an important
precipitant of chromothripsis, as we show rob(15;21)c to be constitutionally
dicentric and breakage-fusion-bridge cycles generate dicentric chromosomes
somatically. Furthermore, our data illustrate that several cancer-specific
mutational processes, applied sequentially, can coordinate to fashion copy-number
profiles over large genomic scales, incrementally refining the fitness benefits
of aggregated gene dosage changes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13115 
PMCID: PMC3976272
PMID: 24670643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):118-22. doi: 10.1038/nature13121. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Reversible and adaptive resistance to BRAF(V600E) inhibition in melanoma.

Sun C(1), Wang L(1), Huang S(2), Heynen GJ(3), Prahallad A(3), Robert C(4),
Haanen J(5), Blank C(5), Wesseling J(6), Willems SM(7), Zecchin D(8), Hobor S(9),
Bajpe PK(3), Lieftink C(3), Mateus C(4), Vagner S(4), Grernrum W(3), Hofland
I(6), Schlicker A(3), Wessels LF(3), Beijersbergen RL(3), Bardelli A(10), Di
Nicolantonio F(8), Eggermont AM(4), Bernards R(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Cancer Systems Biology Centre and
Cancer Genomics Centre Netherlands, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan
121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2].
(2)1] Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Cancer Systems Biology Centre and
Cancer Genomics Centre Netherlands, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan
121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Biochemistry, The
Rosalind and Morris Goodman Cancer Centre, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec
H3G 1Y6, Canada [3].
(3)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Cancer Systems Biology Centre and Cancer
Genomics Centre Netherlands, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121,
1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Institut Gustave Roussy, 114 Rue Edouard Vaillant, 94800 Villejuif, France.
(5)Division of Medical Oncology, Cancer Systems Biology Centre and Cancer
Genomics Centre Netherlands, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121,
1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Division of Pathology, Cancer Systems Biology Centre and Cancer Genomics
Centre Netherlands, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)1] Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis, Cancer Systems Biology Centre and
Cancer Genomics Centre Netherlands, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan
121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Pathology, University
Medical Centre Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(8)1] University of Torino, Department of Oncology, Str prov 142 Km 3.95, 10060
Candiolo, Torino, Italy [2] Candiolo Cancer Institute - FPO, IRCCS, Str prov 142 
Km 3.95, 10060 Candiolo, Torino, Italy.
(9)Candiolo Cancer Institute - FPO, IRCCS, Str prov 142 Km 3.95, 10060 Candiolo, 
Torino, Italy.
(10)1] University of Torino, Department of Oncology, Str prov 142 Km 3.95, 10060 
Candiolo, Torino, Italy [2] Candiolo Cancer Institute - FPO, IRCCS, Str prov 142 
Km 3.95, 10060 Candiolo, Torino, Italy [3] FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology
(IFOM), 20139 Milano, Italy.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2014 Sep;27(5):693-5.

Treatment of BRAF(V600E) mutant melanoma by small molecule drugs that target the 
BRAF or MEK kinases can be effective, but resistance develops invariably. In
contrast, colon cancers that harbour the same BRAF(V600E) mutation are
intrinsically resistant to BRAF inhibitors, due to feedback activation of the
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Here we show that 6 out of 16 melanoma
tumours analysed acquired EGFR expression after the development of resistance to 
BRAF or MEK inhibitors. Using a chromatin-regulator-focused short hairpin RNA
(shRNA) library, we find that suppression of sex determining region Y-box 10
(SOX10) in melanoma causes activation of TGF-β signalling, thus leading to
upregulation of EGFR and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β (PDGFRB),
which confer resistance to BRAF and MEK inhibitors. Expression of EGFR in
melanoma or treatment with TGF-β results in a slow-growth phenotype with cells
displaying hallmarks of oncogene-induced senescence. However, EGFR expression or 
exposure to TGF-β becomes beneficial for proliferation in the presence of BRAF or
MEK inhibitors. In a heterogeneous population of melanoma cells having varying
levels of SOX10 suppression, cells with low SOX10 and consequently high EGFR
expression are rapidly enriched in the presence of drug, but this is reversed
when the drug treatment is discontinued. We find evidence for SOX10 loss and/or
activation of TGF-β signalling in 4 of the 6 EGFR-positive drug-resistant
melanoma patient samples. Our findings provide a rationale for why some BRAF or
MEK inhibitor-resistant melanoma patients may regain sensitivity to these drugs
after a 'drug holiday' and identify patients with EGFR-positive melanoma as a
group that may benefit from re-treatment after a drug holiday.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13121 
PMID: 24670642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):103-107. doi: 10.1038/nature13119. Epub 2014 Mar 23.

XBP1 promotes triple-negative breast cancer by controlling the HIF1α pathway.

Chen X(1), Iliopoulos D(#)(2)(3), Zhang Q(#)(4), Tang Q(#)(5)(6), Greenblatt
MB(7), Hatziapostolou M(2)(3), Lim E(8), Tam WL(9), Ni M(8), Chen Y(10), Mai
J(11), Shen H(1)(11), Hu DZ(12), Adoro S(1), Hu B(13), Song M(1), Tan C(1),
Landis MD(14), Ferrari M(1)(11), Shin SJ(15), Brown M(8), Chang JC(1)(14), Liu
XS(10)(5), Glimcher LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Weill Cornell Medical College, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065.
(2)Center for Systems Biomedicine, Division of Digestive Diseases and Institute
for Molecular Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA
90095, USA.
(3)Department of Cancer Immunology and AIDS.
(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599,
USA.
(5)Department of Bioinformatics, School of Life Science and Technology, Tongji
University, Shanghai, China.
(6)Institute of Animal Genetics and Breeding, Sichuan Agricultural University,
Chengdu, Sichuan, China.
(7)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Department of
Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(9)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA
02142, USA.
(10)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute and Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
(11)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston, TX
77030, USA.
(12)Endocrine Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
(13)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA
02115, USA.
(14)Methodist Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(15)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical
College, 1300 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2014;16(6):471.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 May;14(5):295.

Cancer cells induce a set of adaptive response pathways to survive in the face of
stressors due to inadequate vascularization. One such adaptive pathway is the
unfolded protein (UPR) or endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response mediated in 
part by the ER-localized transmembrane sensor IRE1 (ref. 2) and its substrate
XBP1 (ref. 3). Previous studies report UPR activation in various human tumours,
but the role of XBP1 in cancer progression in mammary epithelial cells is largely
unknown. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC)--a form of breast cancer in which
tumour cells do not express the genes for oestrogen receptor, progesterone
receptor and HER2 (also called ERBB2 or NEU)--is a highly aggressive malignancy
with limited treatment options. Here we report that XBP1 is activated in TNBC and
has a pivotal role in the tumorigenicity and progression of this human breast
cancer subtype. In breast cancer cell line models, depletion of XBP1 inhibited
tumour growth and tumour relapse and reduced the CD44(high)CD24(low) population. 
Hypoxia-inducing factor 1α (HIF1α) is known to be hyperactivated in TNBCs.
Genome-wide mapping of the XBP1 transcriptional regulatory network revealed that 
XBP1 drives TNBC tumorigenicity by assembling a transcriptional complex with
HIF1α that regulates the expression of HIF1α targets via the recruitment of RNA
polymerase II. Analysis of independent cohorts of patients with TNBC revealed a
specific XBP1 gene expression signature that was highly correlated with HIF1α and
hypoxia-driven signatures and that strongly associated with poor prognosis. Our
findings reveal a key function for the XBP1 branch of the UPR in TNBC and
indicate that targeting this pathway may offer alternative treatment strategies
for this aggressive subtype of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13119 
PMCID: PMC4105133
PMID: 24670641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):108-12. doi: 10.1038/nature13110. Epub 2014 Mar 16.

Metabolic determinants of cancer cell sensitivity to glucose limitation and
biguanides.

Birsoy K(1), Possemato R(1), Lorbeer FK(2), Bayraktar EC(2), Thiru P(2), Yucel
B(2), Wang T(3), Chen WW(3), Clish CB(4), Sabatini DM(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and
Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [3] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Seven Cambridge 
Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [4] The David H. Koch Institute for
Integrative Cancer Research at MIT, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [5].
(2)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(3)1] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Nine Cambridge Center,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and
Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [3] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Seven Cambridge 
Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [4] The David H. Koch Institute for
Integrative Cancer Research at MIT, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Seven Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.

As the concentrations of highly consumed nutrients, particularly glucose, are
generally lower in tumours than in normal tissues, cancer cells must adapt their 
metabolism to the tumour microenvironment. A better understanding of these
adaptations might reveal cancer cell liabilities that can be exploited for
therapeutic benefit. Here we developed a continuous-flow culture apparatus
(Nutrostat) for maintaining proliferating cells in low-nutrient media for long
periods of time, and used it to undertake competitive proliferation assays on a
pooled collection of barcoded cancer cell lines cultured in low-glucose
conditions. Sensitivity to low glucose varies amongst cell lines, and an RNA
interference (RNAi) screen pinpointed mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation
(OXPHOS) as the major pathway required for optimal proliferation in low glucose. 
We found that cell lines most sensitive to low glucose are defective in the
OXPHOS upregulation that is normally caused by glucose limitation as a result of 
either mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations in complex I genes or impaired glucose
utilization. These defects predict sensitivity to biguanides, antidiabetic drugs 
that inhibit OXPHOS, when cancer cells are grown in low glucose or as tumour
xenografts. Notably, the biguanide sensitivity of cancer cells with mtDNA
mutations was reversed by ectopic expression of yeast NDI1, a ubiquinone
oxidoreductase that allows bypass of complex I function. Thus, we conclude that
mtDNA mutations and impaired glucose utilization are potential biomarkers for
identifying tumours with increased sensitivity to OXPHOS inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13110 
PMCID: PMC4012432
PMID: 24670634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):61-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13015. Epub 2014 Feb 23.

Mechanism of Tc toxin action revealed in molecular detail.

Meusch D(1), Gatsogiannis C(1), Efremov RG(1), Lang AE(2), Hofnagel O(3), Vetter 
IR(4), Aktories K(5), Raunser S(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physical Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany [2].
(2)Institut für Experimentelle und Klinische Pharmakologie und Toxikologie,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Physical Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany.
(4)Department of Mechanistic Cell Biology, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany.
(5)1] Institut für Experimentelle und Klinische Pharmakologie und Toxikologie,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany [2] BIOSS Centre for
Biological Signalling Studies, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, 79104
Freiburg, Germany.
(6)1] Department of Physical Biochemistry, Max Planck Institute of Molecular
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany [2] Institute of Chemistry and Biochemistry, 
Freie Universität Berlin, Thielallee 63, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

Tripartite Tc toxin complexes of bacterial pathogens perforate the host membrane 
and translocate toxic enzymes into the host cell, including in humans. The
underlying mechanism is complex but poorly understood. Here we report the first, 
to our knowledge, high-resolution structures of a TcA subunit in its prepore and 
pore state and of a complete 1.7 megadalton Tc complex. The structures reveal
that, in addition to a translocation channel, TcA forms four receptor-binding
sites and a neuraminidase-like region, which are important for its host
specificity. pH-induced opening of the shell releases an entropic spring that
drives the injection of the TcA channel into the membrane. Binding of TcB/TcC to 
TcA opens a gate formed by a six-bladed β-propeller and results in a continuous
protein translocation channel, whose architecture and properties suggest a novel 
mode of protein unfolding and translocation. Our results allow us to understand
key steps of infections involving Tc toxins at the molecular level.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13015 
PMID: 24572368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):88-92. doi: 10.1038/nature13028. Epub 2014 Feb 23.

The hippocampal CA2 region is essential for social memory.

Hitti FL(1), Siegelbaum SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Kavli Institute, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University 1051 Riverside Drive, New York, New York 10032,
USA.
(2)1] Department of Neuroscience, Kavli Institute, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University 1051 Riverside Drive, New York, New York 10032, USA
[2] Department of Pharmacology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University 1051 Riverside Drive, New York, New 
York 10032, USA.

The hippocampus is critical for encoding declarative memory, our repository of
knowledge of who, what, where and when. Mnemonic information is processed in the 
hippocampus through several parallel routes involving distinct subregions. In the
classic trisynaptic pathway, information proceeds from entorhinal cortex (EC) to 
dentate gyrus to CA3 and then to CA1, the main hippocampal output. Genetic
lesions of EC (ref. 3) and hippocampal dentate gyrus (ref. 4), CA3 (ref. 5) and
CA1 (ref. 6) regions have revealed their distinct functions in learning and
memory. In contrast, little is known about the role of CA2, a relatively small
area interposed between CA3 and CA1 that forms the nexus of a powerful disynaptic
circuit linking EC input with CA1 output. Here we report a novel transgenic mouse
line that enabled us to selectively examine the synaptic connections and
behavioural role of the CA2 region in adult mice. Genetically targeted
inactivation of CA2 pyramidal neurons caused a pronounced loss of social
memory--the ability of an animal to remember a conspecific--with no change in
sociability or several other hippocampus-dependent behaviours, including spatial 
and contextual memory. These behavioural and anatomical results thus reveal CA2
as a critical hub of sociocognitive memory processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13028 
PMCID: PMC4000264
PMID: 24572357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):93-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13020. Epub 2014 Feb 23.

Mouse liver repopulation with hepatocytes generated from human fibroblasts.

Zhu S(1), Rezvani M(2), Harbell J(3), Mattis AN(4), Wolfe AR(5), Benet LZ(5),
Willenbring H(6), Ding S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, 1650 Owens Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(2)Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research,
University of California San Francisco, 35 Medical Center Way, San Francisco,
California 94143, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, Division of Transplantation, University of California
San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(4)1] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, University of California San Francisco, 35 Medical Center Way, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Liver Center, University of California San
Francisco, 1001 Potrero Avenue, San Francisco, California 94110, USA [3]
Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, 505 Parnassus
Avenue, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(5)Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, University of
California San Francisco, 533 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, California 94143, 
USA.
(6)1] Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, University of California San Francisco, 35 Medical Center Way, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Department of Surgery, Division of
Transplantation, University of California San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue,
San Francisco, California 94143, USA [3] Liver Center, University of California
San Francisco, 1001 Potrero Avenue, San Francisco, California 94110, USA.
(7)1] Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, 1650 Owens Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry,
University of California San Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco,
California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 May;11(5):277-8.

Human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have the capability of
revolutionizing research and therapy of liver diseases by providing a source of
hepatocytes for autologous cell therapy and disease modelling. However, despite
progress in advancing the differentiation of iPSCs into hepatocytes (iPSC-Heps)
in vitro, cells that replicate the ability of human primary adult hepatocytes
(aHeps) to proliferate extensively in vivo have not been reported. This
deficiency has hampered efforts to recreate human liver diseases in mice, and has
cast doubt on the potential of iPSC-Heps for liver cell therapy. The reason is
that extensive post-transplant expansion is needed to establish and sustain a
therapeutically effective liver cell mass in patients, a lesson learned from
clinical trials of aHep transplantation. Here, as a solution to this problem, we 
report the generation of human fibroblast-derived hepatocytes that can repopulate
mouse livers. Unlike current protocols for deriving hepatocytes from human
fibroblasts, ours did not generate iPSCs but cut short reprogramming to
pluripotency to generate an induced multipotent progenitor cell (iMPC) state from
which endoderm progenitor cells and subsequently hepatocytes (iMPC-Heps) could be
efficiently differentiated. For this purpose we identified small molecules that
aided endoderm and hepatocyte differentiation without compromising proliferation.
After transplantation into an immune-deficient mouse model of human liver
failure, iMPC-Heps proliferated extensively and acquired levels of hepatocyte
function similar to those of aHeps. Unfractionated iMPC-Heps did not form
tumours, most probably because they never entered a pluripotent state. Our
results establish the feasibility of significant liver repopulation of mice with 
human hepatocytes generated in vitro, which removes a long-standing roadblock on 
the path to autologous liver cell therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13020 
PMCID: PMC4161230
PMID: 24572354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):128-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13012. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Mitoflash frequency in early adulthood predicts lifespan in Caenorhabditis
elegans.

Shen EZ(1), Song CQ(1), Lin Y(2), Zhang WH(3), Su PF(4), Liu WY(3), Zhang P(3),
Xu J(5), Lin N(5), Zhan C(3), Wang X(5), Shyr Y(6), Cheng H(5), Dong MQ(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] College of Biological Sciences, China Agricultural University, Beijing
100094, China [2] National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing, Beijing
102206, China [3].
(2)1] State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Beijing Key
Laboratory of Cardiometabolic Molecular Medicine, Institute of Molecular
Medicine, Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing
100871, China [2].
(3)National Institute of Biological Sciences, Beijing, Beijing 102206, China.
(4)Department of Statistics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 70101,
Taiwan.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Beijing Key
Laboratory of Cardiometabolic Molecular Medicine, Institute of Molecular
Medicine, Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing
100871, China.
(6)Vanderbilt Centre for Quantitative Sciences, Vanderbilt University, Nashville,
Tennessee 37232, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):E12-4.
    Nature. 2014 Oct 23;514(7523):E14-5.

It has been theorized for decades that mitochondria act as the biological clock
of ageing, but the evidence is incomplete. Here we show a strong coupling between
mitochondrial function and ageing by in vivo visualization of the mitochondrial
flash (mitoflash), a frequency-coded optical readout reflecting free-radical
production and energy metabolism at the single-mitochondrion level. Mitoflash
activity in Caenorhabditis elegans pharyngeal muscles peaked on adult day 3
during active reproduction and on day 9 when animals started to die off. A
plethora of genetic mutations and environmental factors inversely modified the
lifespan and the day-3 mitoflash frequency. Even within an isogenic population,
the day-3 mitoflash frequency was negatively correlated with the lifespan of
individual animals. Furthermore, enhanced activity of the glyoxylate cycle
contributed to the decreased day-3 mitoflash frequency and the longevity of daf-2
mutant animals. These results demonstrate that the day-3 mitoflash frequency is a
powerful predictor of C. elegans lifespan across genetic, environmental and
stochastic factors. They also support the notion that the rate of ageing,
although adjustable in later life, has been set to a considerable degree before
reproduction ceases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13012 
PMID: 24522532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nature. 2014 Apr 3;508(7494):66-71. doi: 10.1038/nature13007. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

Poly(A)-tail profiling reveals an embryonic switch in translational control.

Subtelny AO(1), Eichhorn SW(2), Chen GR(3), Sive H(4), Bartel DP(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical
Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Department 
of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA [4] Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [5].
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical
Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Department 
of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA [4].
(3)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical
Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Department 
of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA.
(4)1] Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, 9 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Poly(A) tails enhance the stability and translation of most eukaryotic messenger 
RNAs, but difficulties in globally measuring poly(A)-tail lengths have impeded
greater understanding of poly(A)-tail function. Here we describe poly(A)-tail
length profiling by sequencing (PAL-seq) and apply it to measure tail lengths of 
millions of individual RNAs isolated from yeasts, cell lines, Arabidopsis
thaliana leaves, mouse liver, and zebrafish and frog embryos. Poly(A)-tail
lengths were conserved between orthologous mRNAs, with mRNAs encoding ribosomal
proteins and other 'housekeeping' proteins tending to have shorter tails. As
expected, tail lengths were coupled to translational efficiencies in early
zebrafish and frog embryos. However, this strong coupling diminished at
gastrulation and was absent in non-embryonic samples, indicating a rapid
developmental switch in the nature of translational control. This switch
complements an earlier switch to zygotic transcriptional control and explains why
the predominant effect of microRNA-mediated deadenylation concurrently shifts
from translational repression to mRNA destabilization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13007 
PMCID: PMC4086860
PMID: 24476825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):504-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13149.

Visual space is compressed in prefrontal cortex before eye movements.

Zirnsak M(1), Steinmetz NA(2), Noudoost B(2), Xu KZ(2), Moore T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):434-5.

We experience the visual world through a series of saccadic eye movements, each
one shifting our gaze to bring objects of interest to the fovea for further
processing. Although such movements lead to frequent and substantial
displacements of the retinal image, these displacements go unnoticed. It is
widely assumed that a primary mechanism underlying this apparent stability is an 
anticipatory shifting of visual receptive fields (RFs) from their presaccadic to 
their postsaccadic locations before movement onset. Evidence of this predictive
'remapping' of RFs has been particularly apparent within brain structures
involved in gaze control. However, critically absent among that evidence are
detailed measurements of visual RFs before movement onset. Here we show that
during saccade preparation, rather than remap, RFs of neurons in a prefrontal
gaze control area massively converge towards the saccadic target. We mapped the
visual RFs of prefrontal neurons during stable fixation and immediately before
the onset of eye movements, using multi-electrode recordings in monkeys.
Following movements from an initial fixation point to a target, RFs remained
stationary in retinocentric space. However, in the period immediately before
movement onset, RFs shifted by as much as 18 degrees of visual angle, and
converged towards the target location. This convergence resulted in a threefold
increase in the proportion of RFs responding to stimuli near the target region.
In addition, like in human observers, the population of prefrontal neurons
grossly mislocalized presaccadic stimuli as being closer to the target. Our
results show that RF shifts do not predict the retinal displacements due to
saccades, but instead reflect the overriding perception of target space during
eye movements.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13149 
PMCID: PMC4064801
PMID: 24670771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):496-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13010.

A suspension-feeding anomalocarid from the Early Cambrian.

Vinther J(1), Stein M(2), Longrich NR(3), Harper DA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Schools of Earth Sciences and Biological Sciences, University of Bristol,
Woodland Road, Bristol BS8 1UG, UK.
(2)Natural History Museum of Denmark, Copenhagen University, Universitetsparken
15, 2100 , Denmark.
(3)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK.
(4)Palaeoecosystems Group, Department of Earth Sciences, Durham University,
Durham DH1 3LE, UK.

Large, actively swimming suspension feeders evolved several times in Earth's
history, arising independently from groups as diverse as sharks, rays and stem
teleost fishes, and in mysticete whales. However, animals occupying this niche
have not been identified from the early Palaeozoic era. Anomalocarids, a group of
stem arthropods that were the largest nektonic animals of the Cambrian and
Ordovician periods, are generally thought to have been apex predators. Here we
describe new material from Tamisiocaris borealis, an anomalocarid from the Early 
Cambrian (Series 2) Sirius Passet Fauna of North Greenland, and propose that its 
frontal appendage is specialized for suspension feeding. The appendage bears
long, slender and equally spaced ventral spines furnished with dense rows of long
and fine auxiliary spines. This suggests that T. borealis was a microphagous
suspension feeder, using its appendages for sweep-net capture of food items down 
to 0.5 mm, within the size range of mesozooplankton such as copepods. Our
observations demonstrate that large, nektonic suspension feeders first evolved
during the Cambrian explosion, as part of an adaptive radiation of anomalocarids.
The presence of nektonic suspension feeders in the Early Cambrian, together with 
evidence for a diverse pelagic community containing phytoplankton and
mesozooplankton, indicate the existence of a complex pelagic ecosystem supported 
by high primary productivity and nutrient flux. Cambrian pelagic ecosystems seem 
to have been more modern than previously believed.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13010 
PMID: 24670770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):488-91. doi: 10.1038/nature13164. Epub 2014 Mar 19.

Methane fluxes show consistent temperature dependence across microbial to
ecosystem scales.

Yvon-Durocher G(1), Allen AP(2), Bastviken D(3), Conrad R(4), Gudasz C(5),
St-Pierre A(6), Thanh-Duc N(7), del Giorgio PA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Environment and Sustainability Institute, University of Exeter, Penryn,
Cornwall, TR10 9EZ. UK.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109,
Australia.
(3)Department of Thematic Studies - Water and Environmental Studies, Linköping
University, SE-581 83 Linköping, Sweden.
(4)Max-Planck-Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Karl-von-Frisch-Strasse 10,
35043 Marburg, Germany.
(5)1] Department of Ecology and Environmental Sciences, Umeå University, Linnaeus
väg 6, SE-901 87 Umeå, Sweden [2] Department of Ecology and Genetics, Limnology, 
Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D, SE-752 36, Uppsala Sweden [3] Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 106A Guyot
Hall, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(6)Département des sciences biologiques, Université du Québec à Montréal,
Montréal, Province of Québec, H2X 3X8, Canada.
(7)Earth Systems Research Center, Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and
Space, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire 03824, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):436-7.

Methane (CH4) is an important greenhouse gas because it has 25 times the global
warming potential of carbon dioxide (CO2) by mass over a century. Recent
calculations suggest that atmospheric CH4 emissions have been responsible for
approximately 20% of Earth's warming since pre-industrial times. Understanding
how CH4 emissions from ecosystems will respond to expected increases in global
temperature is therefore fundamental to predicting whether the carbon cycle will 
mitigate or accelerate climate change. Methanogenesis is the terminal step in the
remineralization of organic matter and is carried out by strictly anaerobic
Archaea. Like most other forms of metabolism, methanogenesis is
temperature-dependent. However, it is not yet known how this physiological
response combines with other biotic processes (for example, methanotrophy,
substrate supply, microbial community composition) and abiotic processes (for
example, water-table depth) to determine the temperature dependence of
ecosystem-level CH4 emissions. It is also not known whether CH4 emissions at the 
ecosystem level have a fundamentally different temperature dependence than other 
key fluxes in the carbon cycle, such as photosynthesis and respiration. Here we
use meta-analyses to show that seasonal variations in CH4 emissions from a wide
range of ecosystems exhibit an average temperature dependence similar to that of 
CH4 production derived from pure cultures of methanogens and anaerobic microbial 
communities. This average temperature dependence (0.96 electron volts (eV)),
which corresponds to a 57-fold increase between 0 and 30°C, is considerably
higher than previously observed for respiration (approximately 0.65 eV) and
photosynthesis (approximately 0.3 eV). As a result, we show that both the
emission of CH4 and the ratio of CH4 to CO2 emissions increase markedly with
seasonal increases in temperature. Our findings suggest that global warming may
have a large impact on the relative contributions of CO2 and CH4 to total
greenhouse gas emissions from aquatic ecosystems, terrestrial wetlands and rice
paddies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13164 
PMID: 24670769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):484-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13122.

Geomagnetic fluctuations reveal stable stratification at the top of the Earth's
core.

Buffett B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Science, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.

Modern observations of the geomagnetic field reveal fluctuations with a dominant 
period of about 60 years. These fluctuations are probably a result of waves in
the liquid core, although the precise nature of the waves is uncertain. Common
suggestions include a type of magnetic wave, known as a torsional oscillation,
but recent studies favour periods that are too short to account for a 60-year
fluctuation. Another possibility involves MAC waves, which arise from the
interplay between magnetic, Archimedes and Coriolis forces. Waves with a suitable
period can emerge when the top of the core is stably stratified. Here I show that
MAC waves provide a good description of time-dependent zonal flow at the top of
the core, as inferred from geomagnetic secular variation. The same wave motion
can also account for unexplained fluctuations in the dipole field. Both of these 
independent predictions require a 140-kilometre-thick stratified layer with a
buoyancy frequency comparable to the Earth's rotation rate. Such a stratified
layer could have a thermal origin, implying a core heat flow of about
13 terawatts. Alternatively, the layer could result from chemical stratification.
In either case, the existence of a stratified layer at the top of the core
obscures the nature of flow deeper in the core, where the magnetic field is
continually regenerated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13122 
PMID: 24670768 


737. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):480-3. doi: 10.1038/nature13123. Epub 2014 Mar 19.

Reconciliation of the carbon budget in the ocean's twilight zone.

Giering SL(1), Sanders R(2), Lampitt RS(2), Anderson TR(2), Tamburini C(3),
Boutrif M(3), Zubkov MV(2), Marsay CM(4), Henson SA(2), Saw K(2), Cook K(5),
Mayor DJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] National Oceanography Centre, University of Southampton, Waterfront Campus,
European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK [2] Ocean and Earth Sciences, University
of Southampton, European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK [3] Institute of
Biological and Environmental Sciences, Oceanlab, University of Aberdeen, Newburgh
AB41 6AA, UK.
(2)National Oceanography Centre, University of Southampton, Waterfront Campus,
European Way, Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK.
(3)Aix-Marseille Université, Université de Toulon, CNRS/INSU, IRD, MIO, UM 110,
13288 Marseille Cedex 09, France.
(4)1] Ocean and Earth Sciences, University of Southampton, European Way,
Southampton SO14 3ZH, UK [2] Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University
of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina 29208, USA.
(5)Marine Laboratory, Marine Scotland Science, Scottish Government, PO Box 101,
375 Victoria Road, Aberdeen AB11 9DB, UK.
(6)Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Oceanlab, University of
Aberdeen, Newburgh AB41 6AA, UK.

Photosynthesis in the surface ocean produces approximately 100 gigatonnes of
organic carbon per year, of which 5 to 15 per cent is exported to the deep ocean.
The rate at which the sinking carbon is converted into carbon dioxide by
heterotrophic organisms at depth is important in controlling oceanic carbon
storage. It remains uncertain, however, to what extent surface ocean carbon
supply meets the demand of water-column biota; the discrepancy between known
carbon sources and sinks is as much as two orders of magnitude. Here we present
field measurements, respiration rate estimates and a steady-state model that
allow us to balance carbon sources and sinks to within observational
uncertainties at the Porcupine Abyssal Plain site in the eastern North Atlantic
Ocean. We find that prokaryotes are responsible for 70 to 92 per cent of the
estimated remineralization in the twilight zone (depths of 50 to 1,000 metres)
despite the fact that much of the organic carbon is exported in the form of
large, fast-sinking particles accessible to larger zooplankton. We suggest that
this occurs because zooplankton fragment and ingest half of the fast-sinking
particles, of which more than 30 per cent may be released as suspended and slowly
sinking matter, stimulating the deep-ocean microbial loop. The synergy between
microbes and zooplankton in the twilight zone is important to our understanding
of the processes controlling the oceanic carbon sink.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13123 
PMID: 24670767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):475-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13137. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Quantum chaos in ultracold collisions of gas-phase erbium atoms.

Frisch A(1), Mark M(1), Aikawa K(1), Ferlaino F(1), Bohn JL(2), Makrides C(3),
Petrov A(4), Kotochigova S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck,
Austria.
(2)JILA, University of Colorado and National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19122,
USA.
(4)1] Department of Physics, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19122,
USA [2] St Petersburg Nuclear Physics Institute, Gatchina 188300, Russia [3]
Division of Quantum Mechanics, St Petersburg State University, St Petersburg
198904, Russia.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):440-1.

Atomic and molecular samples reduced to temperatures below one microkelvin, yet
still in the gas phase, afford unprecedented energy resolution in probing and
manipulating the interactions between their constituent particles. As a result of
this resolution, atoms can be made to scatter resonantly on demand, through the
precise control of a magnetic field. For simple atoms, such as alkalis,
scattering resonances are extremely well characterized. However, ultracold
physics is now poised to enter a new regime, where much more complex species can 
be cooled and studied, including magnetic lanthanide atoms and even molecules.
For molecules, it has been speculated that a dense set of resonances in ultracold
collision cross-sections will probably exhibit essentially random fluctuations,
much as the observed energy spectra of nuclear scattering do. According to the
Bohigas-Giannoni-Schmit conjecture, such fluctuations would imply chaotic
dynamics of the underlying classical motion driving the collision. This would
necessitate new ways of looking at the fundamental interactions in ultracold
atomic and molecular systems, as well as perhaps new chaos-driven states of
ultracold matter. Here we describe the experimental demonstration that random
spectra are indeed found at ultralow temperatures. In the experiment, an
ultracold gas of erbium atoms is shown to exhibit many Fano-Feshbach resonances, 
of the order of three per gauss for bosons. Analysis of their statistics verifies
that their distribution of nearest-neighbour spacings is what one would expect
from random matrix theory. The density and statistics of these resonances are
explained by fully quantum mechanical scattering calculations that locate their
origin in the anisotropy of the atoms' potential energy surface. Our results
therefore reveal chaotic behaviour in the native interaction between ultracold
atoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13137 
PMID: 24670766 


739. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):471-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13156.

A Sedna-like body with a perihelion of 80 astronomical units.

Trujillo CA(1), Sheppard SS(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Gemini Observatory, 670 North A'ohoku Place, Hilo, Hawaii 96720, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution for Science, 5241
Broad Branch Road NW, Washington DC 20015, USA [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):435-6.

The observable Solar System can be divided into three distinct regions: the rocky
terrestrial planets including the asteroids at 0.39 to 4.2 astronomical units
(AU) from the Sun (where 1 AU is the mean distance between Earth and the Sun),
the gas giant planets at 5 to 30 AU from the Sun, and the icy Kuiper belt objects
at 30 to 50 AU from the Sun. The 1,000-kilometre-diameter dwarf planet Sedna was 
discovered ten years ago and was unique in that its closest approach to the Sun
(perihelion) is 76 AU, far greater than that of any other Solar System body.
Formation models indicate that Sedna could be a link between the Kuiper belt
objects and the hypothesized outer Oort cloud at around 10,000 AU from the Sun.
Here we report the presence of a second Sedna-like object, 2012 VP113, whose
perihelion is 80 AU. The detection of 2012 VP113 confirms that Sedna is not an
isolated object; instead, both bodies may be members of the inner Oort cloud,
whose objects could outnumber all other dynamically stable populations in the
Solar System.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13156 
PMID: 24670765 


740. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):462-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13182.

A promoter-level mammalian expression atlas.

FANTOM Consortium and the RIKEN PMI and CLST (DGT), Forrest AR, Kawaji H, Rehli
M, Baillie JK, de Hoon MJ, Haberle V, Lassmann T, Kulakovskiy IV, Lizio M, Itoh
M, Andersson R, Mungall CJ, Meehan TF, Schmeier S, Bertin N, Jørgensen M, Dimont 
E, Arner E, Schmidl C, Schaefer U, Medvedeva YA, Plessy C, Vitezic M, Severin J, 
Semple C, Ishizu Y, Young RS, Francescatto M, Alam I, Albanese D, Altschuler GM, 
Arakawa T, Archer JA, Arner P, Babina M, Rennie S, Balwierz PJ, Beckhouse AG,
Pradhan-Bhatt S, Blake JA, Blumenthal A, Bodega B, Bonetti A, Briggs J,
Brombacher F, Burroughs AM, Califano A, Cannistraci CV, Carbajo D, Chen Y,
Chierici M, Ciani Y, Clevers HC, Dalla E, Davis CA, Detmar M, Diehl AD, Dohi T,
Drabløs F, Edge AS, Edinger M, Ekwall K, Endoh M, Enomoto H, Fagiolini M,
Fairbairn L, Fang H, Farach-Carson MC, Faulkner GJ, Favorov AV, Fisher ME, Frith 
MC, Fujita R, Fukuda S, Furlanello C, Furino M, Furusawa J, Geijtenbeek TB,
Gibson AP, Gingeras T, Goldowitz D, Gough J, Guhl S, Guler R, Gustincich S, Ha
TJ, Hamaguchi M, Hara M, Harbers M, Harshbarger J, Hasegawa A, Hasegawa Y,
Hashimoto T, Herlyn M, Hitchens KJ, Ho Sui SJ, Hofmann OM, Hoof I, Hori F,
Huminiecki L, Iida K, Ikawa T, Jankovic BR, Jia H, Joshi A, Jurman G, Kaczkowski 
B, Kai C, Kaida K, Kaiho A, Kajiyama K, Kanamori-Katayama M, Kasianov AS,
Kasukawa T, Katayama S, Kato S, Kawaguchi S, Kawamoto H, Kawamura YI, Kawashima
T, Kempfle JS, Kenna TJ, Kere J, Khachigian LM, Kitamura T, Klinken SP, Knox AJ, 
Kojima M, Kojima S, Kondo N, Koseki H, Koyasu S, Krampitz S, Kubosaki A, Kwon AT,
Laros JF, Lee W, Lennartsson A, Li K, Lilje B, Lipovich L, Mackay-Sim A, Manabe
R, Mar JC, Marchand B, Mathelier A, Mejhert N, Meynert A, Mizuno Y, de Lima
Morais DA, Morikawa H, Morimoto M, Moro K, Motakis E, Motohashi H, Mummery CL,
Murata M, Nagao-Sato S, Nakachi Y, Nakahara F, Nakamura T, Nakamura Y, Nakazato
K, van Nimwegen E, Ninomiya N, Nishiyori H, Noma S, Noma S, Noazaki T, Ogishima
S, Ohkura N, Ohimiya H, Ohno H, Ohshima M, Okada-Hatakeyama M, Okazaki Y, Orlando
V, Ovchinnikov DA, Pain A, Passier R, Patrikakis M, Persson H, Piazza S,
Prendergast JG, Rackham OJ, Ramilowski JA, Rashid M, Ravasi T, Rizzu P, Roncador 
M, Roy S, Rye MB, Saijyo E, Sajantila A, Saka A, Sakaguchi S, Sakai M, Sato H,
Savvi S, Saxena A, Schneider C, Schultes EA, Schulze-Tanzil GG, Schwegmann A,
Sengstag T, Sheng G, Shimoji H, Shimoni Y, Shin JW, Simon C, Sugiyama D, Sugiyama
T, Suzuki M, Suzuki N, Swoboda RK, 't Hoen PA, Tagami M, Takahashi N, Takai J,
Tanaka H, Tatsukawa H, Tatum Z, Thompson M, Toyodo H, Toyoda T, Valen E, van de
Wetering M, van den Berg LM, Verado R, Vijayan D, Vorontsov IE, Wasserman WW,
Watanabe S, Wells CA, Winteringham LN, Wolvetang E, Wood EJ, Yamaguchi Y,
Yamamoto M, Yoneda M, Yonekura Y, Yoshida S, Zabierowski SE, Zhang PG, Zhao X,
Zucchelli S, Summers KM, Suzuki H, Daub CO, Kawai J, Heutink P, Hide W, Freeman
TC, Lenhard B, Bajic VB, Taylor MS, Makeev VJ, Sandelin A, Hume DA, Carninci P,
Hayashizaki Y.

Regulated transcription controls the diversity, developmental pathways and
spatial organization of the hundreds of cell types that make up a mammal. Using
single-molecule cDNA sequencing, we mapped transcription start sites (TSSs) and
their usage in human and mouse primary cells, cell lines and tissues to produce a
comprehensive overview of mammalian gene expression across the human body. We
find that few genes are truly 'housekeeping', whereas many mammalian promoters
are composite entities composed of several closely separated TSSs, with
independent cell-type-specific expression profiles. TSSs specific to different
cell types evolve at different rates, whereas promoters of broadly expressed
genes are the most conserved. Promoter-based expression analysis reveals key
transcription factors defining cell states and links them to binding-site motifs.
The functions of identified novel transcripts can be predicted by coexpression
and sample ontology enrichment analyses. The functional annotation of the
mammalian genome 5 (FANTOM5) project provides comprehensive expression profiles
and functional annotation of mammalian cell-type-specific transcriptomes with
wide applications in biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13182 
PMCID: PMC4529748
PMID: 24670764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):455-461. doi: 10.1038/nature12787.

An atlas of active enhancers across human cell types and tissues.

Andersson R(#)(1), Gebhard C(#)(2), Miguel-Escalada I(3), Hoof I(1), Bornholdt
J(1), Boyd M(1), Chen Y(1), Zhao X(1)(4), Schmidl C(2), Suzuki T(5)(6), Ntini
E(7), Arner E(5)(6), Valen E(1)(8), Li K(1), Schwarzfischer L(2), Glatz D(2),
Raithel J(2), Lilje B(1), Rapin N(1)(9), Bagger FO(1)(9), Jørgensen M(1),
Andersen PR(7), Bertin N(5)(6), Rackham O(5)(6), Burroughs AM(5)(6), Baillie
JK(10), Ishizu Y(5)(6), Shimizu Y(5)(6), Furuhata E(5)(6), Maeda S(5)(6), Negishi
Y(5)(6), Mungall CJ(11), Meehan TF(12), Lassmann T(5)(6), Itoh M(5)(6)(13),
Kawaji H(5)(13), Kondo N(5)(13), Kawai J(5)(13), Lennartsson A(14), Daub
CO(5)(6)(14), Heutink P(15), Hume DA(10), Jensen TH(7), Suzuki H(5)(6),
Hayashizaki Y(5)(13), Müller F(3), Forrest ARR(5)(6), Carninci P(5)(6), Rehli
M(#)(2), Sandelin A(#)(1).

Collaborators: Forrest AR, Kawaji H, Rehli M, Baillie JK, de Hoon MJ, Haberle V, 
Lassmann T, Kulakovskiy IV, Lizio M, Itoh M, Andersson R, Mungall CJ, Meehan TF, 
Schmeier S, Bertin N, Jørgensen M, Dimont E, Arner E, Schmid C, Schaefer U,
Medvedeva YA, Plessy C, Vitezic M, Severin J, Semple CA, Ishizu Y, Young RS,
Francescatto M, Alam I, Albanese D, Altschuler GM, Arakawa T, Archer JA, Arner P,
Babina M, Rennie S, Balwierz PJ, Beckhouse AG, Pradhan-Bhatt S, Blake JA,
Blumenthal A, Bodega B, Bonetti A, Briggs J, Brombacher F, Burroughs AM, Califano
A, Cannistracti CV, Carbajo D, Chen Y, Chierici M, Ciani Y, Clevers HC, Dalla E, 
Davis CA, Detmar M, Diehl AD, Dohi T, Drabløs F, Edge AS, Edinger M, Ekwall K,
Endoh M, Enomoto H, Fagiolini M, Fairbairn L, Fang H, Farach-Carson MC, Faulkner 
GJ, Favorov AV, Fisher ME, Frith MC, Fujita R, Fukuda S, Furlanello C, Furuno M, 
Furusawa J, Geijtenbeek TB, Gibson AP, Gingeras T, Goldowitz D, Gough J, Guhl S, 
Guler R, Gustincich S, Ha TJ, Hamaguchi M, Hara M, Harbers M, Harshbarger J,
Hasegawa A, Hasegawa Y, Hashimoto T, Herlyn M, Hitchens KJ, Ho Sui SJ, Hofman OM,
Hoof I, Hori F, Huminiecki L, Iida K, Ikawa T, Jankovic BR, Jia H, Joshi A,
Jurman G, Kaczkowski B, Kai C, Kaida K, Kaiho A, Kajiyama K, Kanamori-Katayama M,
Kasianov AS, Kasukawa T, Katayama S, Kato S, Kawaguchi S, Kawamoto H, Kawamura
YI, Kawashima T, Kempfle JS, Kenna TJ, Kere J, Khachigian LM, Kitamura T, Klinken
SP, Knox AJ, Kojima M, Kojima S, Kondo N, Koseki H, Koyasu S, Krampitz S,
Kubosaki A, Kwon AT, Laros JF, Lee W, Lennartsson A, Li K, Lilje B, Lipovich L,
Mackay-Sim A, Manabe R, Mar JC, Marchand B, Mathelier A, Mejhert N, Meynert A,
Mizuno Y, de Lima Morais DA, Morikawa H, Morimoto M, Moro K, Motakis E, Motohashi
H, Mummery CL, Murata M, Nagao-Sato S, Nakachi Y, Nakahara F, Nakamura T,
Nakamura Y, Nakazato K, van Nimwegen E, Ninomiya N, Nishiyori H, Noma S, Nozaki
T, Ogishima S, Ohkura N, Ohmiya H, Ohno H, Onshima M, Okada-Hatakeyama M, Okazaki
Y, Orlando V, Ovchinnikov DA, Pain A, Passier R, Patrikakis M, Persson H, Piazza 
S, Prendergast JG, Rackham OJ, Ramilowski JA, Rashid M, Ravasi T, Rizzu P,
Roncador M, Roy S, Rye MB, Saijyo E, Sajantila A, Saka A, Sakaguchi S, Sakai M,
Sato H, Satoh H, Savvi S, Saxena A, Schneider C, Schultes EA, Schultz-Tanzil GG, 
Schwegmann A, Sengstag T, Sheng G, Shimoji H, Shimoni Y, Shin JW, Simon C,
Sugiyama D, Sugiyama T, Suzuki M, Suzuki N, Swoboda RK, 't Hoen PA, Tagami M,
Takahashi N, Takai J, Tanaka H, Tatsukawa H, Tatum Z, Thompson M, Toyoda H,
Toyodo T, Valen E, van de Wetering M, van den Berg LM, Verardo R, Vijayan D,
Vorontsov IE, Wasserman WW, Watanabe S, Wells CA, Winteringham LN, Wolvetang E,
Wood EJ, Yamaguchi Y, Yamamoto M, Yoneda M, Yonekura Y, Yoshida S, Zabierowski
SE, Zhang PG, Zhao X, Zucchelli S, Summers KM, Suzuki H, Daub CO, Kawai J,
Heutink P, Hide W, Freeman TC, Lenhard B, Bajic VB, Taylor MS, Makeev VJ,
Sandelin A, Hume DA, Carninci P, Hayashizaki Y.

Author information: 
(1)The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology & Biotech Research and
Innovation Centre, University of Copenhagen, Ole Maaloes Vej 5, DK-2200
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital Regensburg,
Franz-Josef-Strauss-Allee 11, 93042 Regensburg, Germany.
(3)School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medical and Dental
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.
(4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(5)RIKEN OMICS Science Centre, RIKEN Yokohama Institute, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho,
Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama City, Kanagawa, 230-0045, Japan.
(6)RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies (Division of Genomic Technologies),
RIKEN Yokohama Institute, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama City,
Kanagawa, 230-0045, Japan.
(7)Centre for mRNP Biogenesis and Metabolism, Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics, C.F. Møllers Alle 3, Bldg. 1130, DK-8000 Aarhus, Denmark.
(8)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, USA.
(9)The Finsen Laboratory, Rigshospitalet and Danish Stem Cell Centre (DanStem),
University of Copenhagen, Ole Maaloes Vej 5, DK-2200, Denmark.
(10)Roslin Institute, Edinburgh University, Easter Bush, Midlothian, EH25 9RG
Scotland, UK.
(11)Genomics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road MS
64-121, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
(12)EMBL Outstation - Hinxton, European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust 
Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SD.
(13)RIKEN Preventive Medicine and Diagnosis Innovation Program, RIKEN Yokohama
Institute, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama City, Kanagawa, 230-0045,
Japan.
(14)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, 14183
Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden.
(15)Department of Clinical Genetics, VU University Medical Center, van der
Boechorststraat 7, 1081 BT Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

Enhancers control the correct temporal and cell-type-specific activation of gene 
expression in multicellular eukaryotes. Knowing their properties, regulatory
activity and targets is crucial to understand the regulation of differentiation
and homeostasis. Here we use the FANTOM5 panel of samples, covering the majority 
of human tissues and cell types, to produce an atlas of active, in
vivo-transcribed enhancers. We show that enhancers share properties with CpG-poor
messenger RNA promoters but produce bidirectional, exosome-sensitive, relatively 
short unspliced RNAs, the generation of which is strongly related to enhancer
activity. The atlas is used to compare regulatory programs between different
cells at unprecedented depth, to identify disease-associated regulatory single
nucleotide polymorphisms, and to classify cell-type-specific and ubiquitous
enhancers. We further explore the utility of enhancer redundancy, which explains 
gene expression strength rather than expression patterns. The online FANTOM5
enhancer atlas represents a unique resource for studies on cell-type-specific
enhancers and gene regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12787 
PMCID: PMC5215096
PMID: 24670763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):448-54. doi: 10.1038/nature13163. Epub 2014 Mar 19.

REST and stress resistance in ageing and Alzheimer's disease.

Lu T(1), Aron L(1), Zullo J(1), Pan Y(1), Kim H(1), Chen Y(2), Yang TH(1), Kim
HM(1), Drake D(1), Liu XS(2), Bennett DA(3), Colaiácovo MP(1), Yankner BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Faber Cancer
Institute and Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago,
Illinois 60612, USA.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2014 Jun;29(7):869.
    Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):439-40.
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 May;15(5):279.

Update in
    Nature. 2016 Dec 15;540(7633):470.

Human neurons are functional over an entire lifetime, yet the mechanisms that
preserve function and protect against neurodegeneration during ageing are
unknown. Here we show that induction of the repressor element 1-silencing
transcription factor (REST; also known as neuron-restrictive silencer factor,
NRSF) is a universal feature of normal ageing in human cortical and hippocampal
neurons. REST is lost, however, in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's
disease. Chromatin immunoprecipitation with deep sequencing and expression
analysis show that REST represses genes that promote cell death and Alzheimer's
disease pathology, and induces the expression of stress response genes. Moreover,
REST potently protects neurons from oxidative stress and amyloid β-protein
toxicity, and conditional deletion of REST in the mouse brain leads to
age-related neurodegeneration. A functional orthologue of REST, Caenorhabditis
elegans SPR-4, also protects against oxidative stress and amyloid β-protein
toxicity. During normal ageing, REST is induced in part by cell non-autonomous
Wnt signalling. However, in Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia and
dementia with Lewy bodies, REST is lost from the nucleus and appears in
autophagosomes together with pathological misfolded proteins. Finally, REST
levels during ageing are closely correlated with cognitive preservation and
longevity. Thus, the activation state of REST may distinguish neuroprotection
from neurodegeneration in the ageing brain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13163 
PMCID: PMC4110979
PMID: 24670762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):443-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13132.

The ultimate physical limits of privacy.

Ekert A(1), Renner R(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford OX2 9GG, UK [2] Centre
for Quantum Technologies, National University of Singapore, 117543 Singapore.
(2)Institute for Theoretical Physics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Among those who make a living from the science of secrecy, worry and paranoia are
just signs of professionalism. Can we protect our secrets against those who wield
superior technological powers? Can we trust those who provide us with tools for
protection? Can we even trust ourselves, our own freedom of choice? Recent
developments in quantum cryptography show that some of these questions can be
addressed and discussed in precise and operational terms, suggesting that privacy
is indeed possible under surprisingly weak assumptions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13132 
PMID: 24670761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):508-12. doi: 10.1038/nature12998. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

The E3 ligase Cbl-b and TAM receptors regulate cancer metastasis via natural
killer cells.

Paolino M(1), Choidas A(2), Wallner S(3), Pranjic B(1), Uribesalgo I(1), Loeser
S(1), Jamieson AM(4), Langdon WY(5), Ikeda F(1), Fededa JP(1), Cronin SJ(1),
Nitsch R(1), Schultz-Fademrecht C(2), Eickhoff J(2), Menninger S(2), Unger A(2), 
Torka R(6), Gruber T(3), Hinterleitner R(3), Baier G(3), Wolf D(7), Ullrich A(6),
Klebl BM(2), Penninger JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)IMBA, Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of
Sciences, 1030 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Lead Discovery Center GmbH, D-44227 Dortmund, Germany.
(3)Medical University Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode
Island 02912, USA.
(5)School of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Western Australia, 
Crawley, Western Australia 6009, Perth, Australia.
(6)Max-Planck, Institute for Biochemistry, Department of Molecular Biology,
D-82152 Martinsried, Germany.
(7)1] Medical University Innsbruck, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria [2] Internal Medicine
III, University Hospital Bonn, 53127 Bonn, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Apr;14(4):218.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Apr;11(4):180.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Apr;13(4):257.

Tumour metastasis is the primary cause of mortality in cancer patients and
remains the key challenge for cancer therapy. New therapeutic approaches to block
inhibitory pathways of the immune system have renewed hopes for the utility of
such therapies. Here we show that genetic deletion of the E3 ubiquitin ligase
Cbl-b (casitas B-lineage lymphoma-b) or targeted inactivation of its E3 ligase
activity licenses natural killer (NK) cells to spontaneously reject metastatic
tumours. The TAM tyrosine kinase receptors Tyro3, Axl and Mer (also known as
Mertk) were identified as ubiquitylation substrates for Cbl-b. Treatment of
wild-type NK cells with a newly developed small molecule TAM kinase inhibitor
conferred therapeutic potential, efficiently enhancing anti-metastatic NK cell
activity in vivo. Oral or intraperitoneal administration using this TAM inhibitor
markedly reduced murine mammary cancer and melanoma metastases dependent on NK
cells. We further report that the anticoagulant warfarin exerts anti-metastatic
activity in mice via Cbl-b/TAM receptors in NK cells, providing a molecular
explanation for a 50-year-old puzzle in cancer biology. This novel TAM/Cbl-b
inhibitory pathway shows that it might be possible to develop a 'pill' that
awakens the innate immune system to kill cancer metastases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12998 
PMID: 24553136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):519-22. doi: 10.1038/nature12978. Epub 2014 Feb 16.

Structure-based programming of lymph-node targeting in molecular vaccines.

Liu H(1), Moynihan KD(2), Zheng Y(2), Szeto GL(2), Li AV(2), Huang B(2), Van
Egeren DS(3), Park C(4), Irvine DJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Department of Biological
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA [3] Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)1] Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Koch Institute for
Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(5)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Department of Biological
Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139, USA [3] Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [4] Ragon Institute 
of Massachusetts General Hospital, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [5] Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.

In cancer patients, visual identification of sentinel lymph nodes (LNs) is
achieved by the injection of dyes that bind avidly to endogenous albumin,
targeting these compounds to LNs, where they are efficiently filtered by resident
phagocytes. Here we translate this 'albumin hitchhiking' approach to molecular
vaccines, through the synthesis of amphiphiles (amph-vaccines) comprising an
antigen or adjuvant cargo linked to a lipophilic albumin-binding tail by a
solubility-promoting polar polymer chain. Administration of structurally
optimized CpG-DNA/peptide amph-vaccines in mice resulted in marked increases in
LN accumulation and decreased systemic dissemination relative to their parent
compounds, leading to 30-fold increases in T-cell priming and enhanced
anti-tumour efficacy while greatly reducing systemic toxicity. Amph-vaccines
provide a simple, broadly applicable strategy to simultaneously increase the
potency and safety of subunit vaccines.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12978 
PMCID: PMC4069155
PMID: 24531764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):500-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12980. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

A primitive placoderm sheds light on the origin of the jawed vertebrate face.

Dupret V(1), Sanchez S(2), Goujet D(3), Tafforeau P(4), Ahlberg PE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Uppsala University, Department of Organismal Biology, Subdepartment of
Evolution and Development, Norbyvägen 18A, SE-752 36, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)1] Uppsala University, Department of Organismal Biology, Subdepartment of
Evolution and Development, Norbyvägen 18A, SE-752 36, Uppsala, Sweden [2]
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, 6 rue Jules Horowitz, 38043 Grenoble
Cedex, France.
(3)Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle, UMR 7207 CR2P CNRS/MNHN/UPMC, 8 rue
Buffon, CP 38,75231 Paris Cedex 05, France.
(4)European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, 6 rue Jules Horowitz, 38043 Grenoble 
Cedex, France.

Extant vertebrates form two clades, the jawless Cyclostomata (lampreys and
hagfishes) and the jawed Gnathostomata (all other vertebrates), with contrasting 
facial architectures. These arise during development from just a few key
differences in the growth patterns of the cranial primordia: notably, the nasal
sacs and hypophysis originate from a single placode in cyclostomes but from
separate placodes in gnathostomes, and infraoptic ectomesenchyme migrates forward
either side of the single placode in cyclostomes but between the placodes in
gnathostomes. Fossil stem gnathostomes preserve cranial anatomies rich in
landmarks that provide proxies for developmental processes and allow the
transition from jawless to jawed vertebrates to be broken down into evolutionary 
steps. Here we use propagation phase contrast synchrotron microtomography to
image the cranial anatomy of the primitive placoderm (jawed stem gnathostome)
Romundina, and show that it combines jawed vertebrate architecture with cranial
and cerebral proportions resembling those of cyclostomes and the galeaspid
(jawless stem gnathostome) Shuyu. This combination seems to be primitive for
jawed vertebrates, and suggests a decoupling between ectomesenchymal growth
trajectory, ectomesenchymal proliferation, and cerebral shape change during the
origin of gnathostomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12980 
PMID: 24522530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):492-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12976. Epub 2014 Feb 9.

Geographical limits to species-range shifts are suggested by climate velocity.

Burrows MT(1), Schoeman DS(2), Richardson AJ(3), Molinos JG(1), Hoffmann A(4),
Buckley LB(5), Moore PJ(6), Brown CJ(7), Bruno JF(5), Duarte CM(8), Halpern
BS(9), Hoegh-Guldberg O(7), Kappel CV(10), Kiessling W(11), O'Connor MI(12),
Pandolfi JM(13), Parmesan C(14), Sydeman WJ(15), Ferrier S(16), Williams KJ(16), 
Poloczanska ES(17).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Scottish Association for Marine Science, Scottish
Marine Institute, Oban, Argyll, PA37 1QA, Scotland, UK.
(2)School of Science and Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast,
Maroochydore, Queensland QLD 4558, Australia.
(3)1] Climate Adaptation Flagship, CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research,
Ecosciences Precinct, GPO Box 2583, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia [2]
Centre for Applications in Natural Resource Mathematics (CARM), School of
Mathematics and Physics, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland 4072,
Australia.
(4)Department of Genetics, University of Melbourne, 30 Flemington Road,
Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia.
(5)Department of Biology, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina 27599-3280, USA.
(6)1] Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences, Aberystwyth
University, Aberystwyth SY23 3DA, UK [2] Centre for Marine Ecosystems Research,
Edith Cowan University, Perth 6027, Australia.
(7)The Global Change Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland 4072, Australia.
(8)1] The UWA Oceans Institute, University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling
Highway, Crawley 6009, Australia [2] Department of Global Change Research, IMEDEA
(UIB-CSIC), Instituto Mediterráneo de Estudios Avanzados, Esporles 07190, Spain
[3] Department of Marine Biology, Faculty of Marine Sciences, King Abdulaziz
University, PO Box 80207, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(9)1] Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, University of
California, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA [2] Imperial College London,
Silwood Park Campus, Buckhurst Road, Ascot SL5 7PY, UK.
(10)Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, University of
California, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA.
(11)1] GeoZentrum Nordbayern, Paläoumwelt, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg,
Loewenichstrasse 28, 91054 Erlangen, Germany [2] Museum für Naturkunde,
Invalidenstr asse 43, 10115 Berlin, Germany.
(12)Department of Zoology and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(13)School of Biological Sciences, Australian Research Council Centre of
Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Queensland 4072, Australia.
(14)1] Integrative Biology, University of Texas, Austin, Texas 78712, USA [2]
Marine Institute, Drake Circus, University of Plymouth, Devon PL4 8AA, UK.
(15)Farallon Institute for Advanced Ecosystem Research, 101 H Street, Suite Q,
Petaluma, California 94952, USA.
(16)Climate Adaptation Flagship, CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences, GPO Box 1700,
Canberra, Australian Capital Territory 2601, Australia.
(17)Climate Adaptation Flagship, CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research,
Ecosciences Precinct, GPO Box 2583, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia.

The reorganization of patterns of species diversity driven by anthropogenic
climate change, and the consequences for humans, are not yet fully understood or 
appreciated. Nevertheless, changes in climate conditions are useful for
predicting shifts in species distributions at global and local scales. Here we
use the velocity of climate change to derive spatial trajectories for climatic
niches from 1960 to 2009 (ref. 7) and from 2006 to 2100, and use the properties
of these trajectories to infer changes in species distributions. Coastlines act
as barriers and locally cooler areas act as attractors for trajectories, creating
source and sink areas for local climatic conditions. Climate source areas
indicate where locally novel conditions are not connected to areas where similar 
climates previously occurred, and are thereby inaccessible to climate migrants
tracking isotherms: 16% of global surface area for 1960 to 2009, and 34% of ocean
for the 'business as usual' climate scenario (representative concentration
pathway (RCP) 8.5) representing continued use of fossil fuels without mitigation.
Climate sink areas are where climate conditions locally disappear, potentially
blocking the movement of climate migrants. Sink areas comprise 1.0% of ocean area
and 3.6% of land and are prevalent on coasts and high ground. Using this approach
to infer shifts in species distributions gives global and regional maps of the
expected direction and rate of shifts of climate migrants, and suggests areas of 
potential loss of species richness.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12976 
PMID: 24509712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Nature. 2014 Mar 27;507(7493):513-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12910. Epub 2014 Jan 19.

Transcription factor achaete-scute homologue 2 initiates follicular T-helper-cell
development.

Liu X(1), Chen X(2), Zhong B(3), Wang A(1), Wang X(1), Chu F(4), Nurieva RI(5),
Yan X(6), Chen P(7), van der Flier LG(8), Nakatsukasa H(9), Neelapu SS(4), Chen
W(9), Clevers H(10), Tian Q(6), Qi H(2), Wei L(11), Dong C(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Tsinghua University School of Medicine, Beijing 100084, China [2]
Department of Immunology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77054, USA.
(2)Tsinghua University School of Medicine, Beijing 100084, China.
(3)1] Department of Immunology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77054, 
USA [2] College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072, China (B.Z.);
SomantiX B.V., Padualaan 8, 3584 CH Utrecht, the Netherlands (L.G.v.d.F.).
(4)Department of Lymphoma and Myeloma, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 
77054, USA.
(5)Department of Immunology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77054,
USA.
(6)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Immunology, National Eye Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland
20892-1858, USA.
(8)1] Hubrecht Institute-KNAW and University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 
8, 3584 CT Utrecht, the Netherlands [2] College of Life Sciences, Wuhan
University, Wuhan 430072, China (B.Z.); SomantiX B.V., Padualaan 8, 3584 CH
Utrecht, the Netherlands (L.G.v.d.F.).
(9)National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892-2190, USA.
(10)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW and University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584 CT Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(11)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou
510275, China.

In immune responses, activated T cells migrate to B-cell follicles and develop
into follicular T-helper (TFH) cells, a recently identified subset of CD4(+) T
cells specialized in providing help to B lymphocytes in the induction of germinal
centres. Although Bcl6 has been shown to be essential in TFH-cell function, it
may not regulate the initial migration of T cells or the induction of the TFH
program, as exemplified by C-X-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CXCR5) upregulation. 
Here we show that expression of achaete-scute homologue 2 (Ascl2)--a basic
helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor--is selectively upregulated in TFH
cells. Ectopic expression of Ascl2 upregulates CXCR5 but not Bcl6, and
downregulates C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) expression in T cells in vitro, as 
well as accelerating T-cell migration to the follicles and TFH-cell development
in vivo in mice. Genome-wide analysis indicates that Ascl2 directly regulates
TFH-related genes whereas it inhibits expression of T-helper cell 1 (TH1) and
TH17 signature genes. Acute deletion of Ascl2, as well as blockade of its
function with the Id3 protein in CD4(+) T cells, results in impaired TFH-cell
development and germinal centre response. Conversely, mutation of Id3, known to
cause antibody-mediated autoimmunity, greatly enhances TFH-cell generation. Thus,
Ascl2 directly initiates TFH-cell development.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12910 
PMCID: PMC4012617
PMID: 24463518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):376-380. doi: 10.1038/nature13146. Epub 2014 Mar
12.

Endothelial Notch activity promotes angiogenesis and osteogenesis in bone.

Ramasamy SK(#)(1), Kusumbe AP(#)(1), Wang L(1), Adams RH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Molecular Biomedicine, Department of Tissue
Morphogenesis, and University of Münster, Faculty of Medicine, Münster, German.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):313-4.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 May;10(5):250.

Blood vessel growth in the skeletal system and osteogenesis seem to be coupled,
suggesting the existence of molecular crosstalk between endothelial and
osteoblastic cells. Understanding the nature of the mechanisms linking
angiogenesis and bone formation should be of great relevance for improved
fracture healing or prevention of bone mass loss. Here we show that vascular
growth in bone involves a specialized, tissue-specific form of angiogenesis.
Notch signalling promotes endothelial cell proliferation and vessel growth in
postnatal long bone, which is the opposite of the well-established function of
Notch and its ligand Dll4 in the endothelium of other organs and tumours.
Endothelial-cell-specific and inducible genetic disruption of Notch signalling in
mice not only impaired bone vessel morphology and growth, but also led to reduced
osteogenesis, shortening of long bones, chondrocyte defects, loss of trabeculae
and decreased bone mass. On the basis of a series of genetic experiments, we
conclude that skeletal defects in these mutants involved defective angiocrine
release of Noggin from endothelial cells, which is positively regulated by Notch.
Administration of recombinant Noggin, a secreted antagonist of bone morphogenetic
proteins, restored bone growth and mineralization, chondrocyte maturation, the
formation of trabeculae and osteoprogenitor numbers in endothelial-cell-specific 
Notch pathway mutants. These findings establish a molecular framework coupling
angiogenesis, angiocrine signals and osteogenesis, which may prove significant
for the development of future therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13146 
PMCID: PMC4943529
PMID: 24647000  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13138. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Obesity-associated variants within FTO form long-range functional connections
with IRX3.

Smemo S(1), Tena JJ(2), Kim KH(3), Gamazon ER(4), Sakabe NJ(5), Gómez-Marín C(6),
Aneas I(5), Credidio FL(5), Sobreira DR(5), Wasserman NF(5), Lee JH(7),
Puviindran V(7), Tam D(7), Shen M(5), Son JE(8), Vakili NA(7), Sung HK(8),
Naranjo S(6), Acemel RD(6), Manzanares M(9), Nagy A(8), Cox NJ(10), Hui CC(7),
Gomez-Skarmeta JL(6), Nóbrega MA(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA [2].
(2)1] Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo (CABD), Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas/Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Carretera de Utrera
Km1, Sevilla 41013, Spain [2].
(3)1] Program in Developmental & Stem Cell Biology, The Hospital for Sick
Children, and Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [2].
(4)Section of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(5)Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA.
(6)Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo (CABD), Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas/Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Carretera de Utrera
Km1, Sevilla 41013, Spain.
(7)Program in Developmental & Stem Cell Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children, 
and Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S
1A8, Canada.
(8)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario
M5T 3H7, Canada.
(9)Cardiovascular Development and Repair Department, Centro Nacional de
Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), Madrid 28029, Spain.
(10)1] Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA [2] Section of Genetic Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2014 Jun;7(3):395-6.
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):309-10.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Jun;10(6):313.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have reproducibly associated variants
within introns of FTO with increased risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D). 
Although the molecular mechanisms linking these noncoding variants with obesity
are not immediately obvious, subsequent studies in mice demonstrated that FTO
expression levels influence body mass and composition phenotypes. However, no
direct connection between the obesity-associated variants and FTO expression or
function has been made. Here we show that the obesity-associated noncoding
sequences within FTO are functionally connected, at megabase distances, with the 
homeobox gene IRX3. The obesity-associated FTO region directly interacts with the
promoters of IRX3 as well as FTO in the human, mouse and zebrafish genomes.
Furthermore, long-range enhancers within this region recapitulate aspects of IRX3
expression, suggesting that the obesity-associated interval belongs to the
regulatory landscape of IRX3. Consistent with this, obesity-associated single
nucleotide polymorphisms are associated with expression of IRX3, but not FTO, in 
human brains. A direct link between IRX3 expression and regulation of body mass
and composition is demonstrated by a reduction in body weight of 25 to 30% in
Irx3-deficient mice, primarily through the loss of fat mass and increase in basal
metabolic rate with browning of white adipose tissue. Finally, hypothalamic
expression of a dominant-negative form of Irx3 reproduces the metabolic
phenotypes of Irx3-deficient mice. Our data suggest that IRX3 is a functional
long-range target of obesity-associated variants within FTO and represents a
novel determinant of body mass and composition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13138 
PMCID: PMC4113484
PMID: 24646999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):346-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13030.

Sulphide oxidation and carbonate dissolution as a source of CO2 over geological
timescales.

Torres MA(1), West AJ(1), Li G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California 90089, USA.
(2)MOE Key Laboratory of Surficial Geochemistry, Department of Earth Sciences,
Nanjing University, 163 Xianlindadao, Nanjing 210046, China.

The observed stability of Earth's climate over millions of years is thought to
depend on the rate of carbon dioxide (CO2) release from the solid Earth being
balanced by the rate of CO2 consumption by silicate weathering. During the
Cenozoic era, spanning approximately the past 66 million years, the concurrent
increases in the marine isotopic ratios of strontium, osmium and lithium suggest 
that extensive uplift of mountain ranges may have stimulated CO2 consumption by
silicate weathering, but reconstructions of sea-floor spreading do not indicate a
corresponding increase in CO2 inputs from volcanic degassing. The resulting
imbalance would have depleted the atmosphere of all CO2 within a few million
years. As a result, reconciling Cenozoic isotopic records with the need for mass 
balance in the long-term carbon cycle has been a major and unresolved challenge
in geochemistry and Earth history. Here we show that enhanced sulphide oxidation 
coupled to carbonate dissolution can provide a transient source of CO2 to Earth's
atmosphere that is relevant over geological timescales. Like drawdown by means of
silicate weathering, this source is probably enhanced by tectonic uplift, and so 
may have contributed to the relative stability of the partial pressure of
atmospheric CO2 during the Cenozoic. A variety of other hypotheses have been put 
forward to explain the 'Cenozoic isotope-weathering paradox', and the evolution
of the carbon cycle probably depended on multiple processes. However, an
important role for sulphide oxidation coupled to carbonate dissolution is
consistent with records of radiogenic isotopes, atmospheric CO2 partial pressure 
and the evolution of the Cenozoic sulphur cycle, and could be accounted for by
geologically reasonable changes in the global dioxygen cycle, suggesting that
this CO2 source should be considered a potentially important but as yet generally
unrecognized component of the long-term carbon cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13030 
PMID: 24646998 


752. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):341-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13078.

A fully photonics-based coherent radar system.

Ghelfi P(1), Laghezza F(1), Scotti F(1), Serafino G(2), Capria A(3), Pinna S(2), 
Onori D(2), Porzi C(2), Scaffardi M(1), Malacarne A(1), Vercesi V(2), Lazzeri
E(1), Berizzi F(4), Bogoni A(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Photonic Networks, Inter-university National Consortium
for Telecommunications (CNIT), Via Moruzzi 1, 56124 Pisa, Italy.
(2)TeCIP Institute, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Via Moruzzi 1, 56124 Pisa, Italy.
(3)National Laboratory of Radars and Surveillance Systems, Inter-university
National Consortium for Telecommunications (CNIT), Galleria Gerace 18, 56126
Pisa, Italy.
(4)1] National Laboratory of Radars and Surveillance Systems, Inter-university
National Consortium for Telecommunications (CNIT), Galleria Gerace 18, 56126
Pisa, Italy [2] Department of Information Engineering, University of Pisa, Via
Caruso 16, 56122 Pisa, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):310-1.

The next generation of radar (radio detection and ranging) systems needs to be
based on software-defined radio to adapt to variable environments, with higher
carrier frequencies for smaller antennas and broadened bandwidth for increased
resolution. Today's digital microwave components (synthesizers and
analogue-to-digital converters) suffer from limited bandwidth with high noise at 
increasing frequencies, so that fully digital radar systems can work up to only a
few gigahertz, and noisy analogue up- and downconversions are necessary for
higher frequencies. In contrast, photonics provide high precision and ultrawide
bandwidth, allowing both the flexible generation of extremely stable
radio-frequency signals with arbitrary waveforms up to millimetre waves, and the 
detection of such signals and their precise direct digitization without
downconversion. Until now, the photonics-based generation and detection of
radio-frequency signals have been studied separately and have not been tested in 
a radar system. Here we present the development and the field trial results of a 
fully photonics-based coherent radar demonstrator carried out within the project 
PHODIR. The proposed architecture exploits a single pulsed laser for generating
tunable radar signals and receiving their echoes, avoiding radio-frequency up-
and downconversion and guaranteeing both the software-defined approach and high
resolution. Its performance exceeds state-of-the-art electronics at carrier
frequencies above two gigahertz, and the detection of non-cooperating aeroplanes 
confirms the effectiveness and expected precision of the system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13078 
PMID: 24646997 


753. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):338-40. doi: 10.1038/nature13046.

Rotationally driven 'zebra stripes' in Earth's inner radiation belt.

Ukhorskiy AY(1), Sitnov MI(1), Mitchell DG(1), Takahashi K(1), Lanzerotti LJ(2), 
Mauk BH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Physics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, 11100 Johns Hopkins Rd, 
Laurel, Maryland 20723, USA.
(2)New Jersey Institute of Technology, 141 Summit St, Newark, New Jersey 07103,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):308-9.

Structured features on top of nominally smooth distributions of radiation-belt
particles at Earth have been previously associated with particle acceleration and
transport mechanisms powered exclusively by enhanced solar-wind activity.
Although planetary rotation is considered to be important for particle
acceleration at Jupiter and Saturn, the electric field produced in the inner
magnetosphere by Earth's rotation can change the velocity of trapped particles by
only about 1-2 kilometres per second, so rotation has been thought
inconsequential for radiation-belt electrons with velocities of about 100,000
kilometres per second. Here we report that the distributions of energetic
electrons across the entire spatial extent of Earth's inner radiation belt are
organized in regular, highly structured and unexpected 'zebra stripes', even when
the solar-wind activity is low. Modelling reveals that the patterns are produced 
by Earth's rotation. Radiation-belt electrons are trapped in Earth's dipole-like 
magnetic field, where they undergo slow longitudinal drift motion around the
planet because of the gradient and curvature of the magnetic field. Earth's
rotation induces global diurnal variations of magnetic and electric fields that
resonantly interact with electrons whose drift period is close to 24 hours,
modifying electron fluxes over a broad energy range into regular patterns
composed of multiple stripes extending over the entire span of the inner
radiation belt.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13046 
PMID: 24646996 


754. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):329-34. doi: 10.1038/nature13147. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Unexpected link between an antibiotic, pannexin channels and apoptosis.

Poon IK(1), Chiu YH(2), Armstrong AJ(3), Kinchen JM(3), Juncadella IJ(3), Bayliss
DA(2), Ravichandran KS(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] The Center for Cell Clearance, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22908, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Cancer
Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA [3] Beirne 
B. Carter Center for Immunology Research, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA [4] La Trobe Institute for Molecular
Science, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria 3086, Australia.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 
22908, USA.
(3)1] The Center for Cell Clearance, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22908, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Cancer
Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA [3] Beirne 
B. Carter Center for Immunology Research, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):312-3.

Plasma membrane pannexin 1 channels (PANX1) release nucleotide find-me signals
from apoptotic cells to attract phagocytes. Here we show that the quinolone
antibiotic trovafloxacin is a novel PANX1 inhibitor, by using a small-molecule
screen. Although quinolones are widely used to treat bacterial infections, some
quinolones have unexplained side effects, including deaths among children. PANX1 
is a direct target of trovafloxacin at drug concentrations seen in human plasma, 
and its inhibition led to dysregulated fragmentation of apoptotic cells. Genetic 
loss of PANX1 phenocopied trovafloxacin effects, revealing a non-redundant role
for pannexin channels in regulating cellular disassembly during apoptosis.
Increase in drug-resistant bacteria worldwide and the dearth of new antibiotics
is a major human health challenge. Comparing different quinolone antibiotics
suggests that certain structural features may contribute to PANX1 blockade. These
data identify a novel linkage between an antibiotic, pannexin channels and
cellular integrity, and suggest that re-engineering certain quinolones might help
develop newer antibacterials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13147 
PMCID: PMC4078991
PMID: 24646995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):323-328. doi: 10.1038/nature13145. Epub 2014 Mar
12.

Coupling of angiogenesis and osteogenesis by a specific vessel subtype in bone.

Kusumbe AP(#)(1), Ramasamy SK(#)(1), Adams RH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Molecular Biomedicine, Department of Tissue
Morphogenesis, and University of Münster, Faculty of Medicine, D-48149 Münster,
Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):574.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):313-4.
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 May;10(5):250.

The mammalian skeletal system harbours a hierarchical system of mesenchymal stem 
cells, osteoprogenitors and osteoblasts sustaining lifelong bone formation.
Osteogenesis is indispensable for the homeostatic renewal of bone as well as
regenerative fracture healing, but these processes frequently decline in ageing
organisms, leading to loss of bone mass and increased fracture incidence.
Evidence indicates that the growth of blood vessels in bone and osteogenesis are 
coupled, but relatively little is known about the underlying cellular and
molecular mechanisms. Here we identify a new capillary subtype in the murine
skeletal system with distinct morphological, molecular and functional properties.
These vessels are found in specific locations, mediate growth of the bone
vasculature, generate distinct metabolic and molecular microenvironments,
maintain perivascular osteoprogenitors and couple angiogenesis to osteogenesis.
The abundance of these vessels and associated osteoprogenitors was strongly
reduced in bone from aged animals, and pharmacological reversal of this decline
allowed the restoration of bone mass.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13145 
PMCID: PMC4943525
PMID: 24646994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):366-370. doi: 10.1038/nature12979. Epub 2014 Feb
23.

IL-35-producing B cells are critical regulators of immunity during autoimmune and
infectious diseases.

Shen P(#)(1), Roch T(#)(1), Lampropoulou V(1), O'Connor RA(2), Stervbo U(1),
Hilgenberg E(1), Ries S(1), Dang VD(1), Jaimes Y(1), Daridon C(1)(3), Li R(4),
Jouneau L(5), Boudinot P(5), Wilantri S(1), Sakwa I(1), Miyazaki Y(4), Leech
MD(2), McPherson RC(2), Wirtz S(6), Neurath M(6), Hoehlig K(1), Meinl E(7),
Grützkau A(1), Grün JR(1), Horn K(1), Kühl AA(8), Dörner T(1)(3), Bar-Or A(4),
Kaufmann SHE(9), Anderton SM(2), Fillatreau S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Rheuma-Forschungszentrum, a Leibniz Institute, Charitéplatz 1, 10117
Berlin, Germany.
(2)University of Edinburgh, Centre for Inflammation Research and Centre for
Multiple Sclerosis Research, Queen's Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, EH16 
4TJ, United Kingdom.
(3)Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, CC12, Dept. Medicine/Rheumatology and
Clinical Immunology, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Neuroimmunology Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill
University, Montreal, Quebec, H3A2B4, Canada.
(5)Virologie et Immunologie Moléculaires, INRA, 78352 Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(6)Medical Clinic 1, Kussmaul Campus for Medical Research, University of
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.
(7)Institut für Klinische Neuroimmunologie Klinikum der
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, 81377 München, Germany.
(8)Immunpathologie, Research Center ImmunoSciences, 12203 Berlin, Germany.
(9)Max Planck Institute of Infection Biology, Department of Immunology,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

B lymphocytes have critical roles as positive and negative regulators of
immunity. Their inhibitory function has been associated primarily with
interleukin 10 (IL-10) because B-cell-derived IL-10 can protect against
autoimmune disease and increase susceptibility to pathogens. Here we identify
IL-35-producing B cells as key players in the negative regulation of immunity.
Mice in which only B cells did not express IL-35 lost their ability to recover
from the T-cell-mediated demyelinating autoimmune disease experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE). In contrast, these mice displayed a markedly improved
resistance to infection with the intracellular bacterial pathogen Salmonella
enterica serovar Typhimurium as shown by their superior containment of the
bacterial growth and their prolonged survival after primary infection, and upon
secondary challenge, compared to control mice. The increased immunity found in
mice lacking IL-35 production by B cells was associated with a higher activation 
of macrophages and inflammatory T cells, as well as an increased function of B
cells as antigen-presenting cells (APCs). During Salmonella infection, IL-35- and
IL-10-producing B cells corresponded to two largely distinct sets of
surface-IgM(+)CD138(hi)TACI(+)CXCR4(+)CD1d(int)Tim1(int) plasma cells expressing 
the transcription factor Blimp1 (also known as Prdm1). During EAE, CD138(+)
plasma cells were also the main source of B-cell-derived IL-35 and IL-10.
Collectively, our data show the importance of IL-35-producing B cells in
regulation of immunity and highlight IL-35 production by B cells as a potential
therapeutic target for autoimmune and infectious diseases. This study reveals the
central role of activated B cells, particularly plasma cells, and their
production of cytokines in the regulation of immune responses in health and
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12979 
PMCID: PMC4260166
PMID: 24572363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):358-61. doi: 10.1038/nature12989. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

A dedicated circuit links direction-selective retinal ganglion cells to the
primary visual cortex.

Cruz-Martín A(1), El-Danaf RN(1), Osakada F(2), Sriram B(3), Dhande OS(1), Nguyen
PL(1), Callaway EM(2), Ghosh A(4), Huberman AD(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego,
California 92093, USA [2] Neurobiology Section in the Division of Biological
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, California 92093, USA.
(2)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92097, USA.
(3)Neurobiology Section in the Division of Biological Sciences, University of
California, San Diego, California 92093, USA.
(4)Neuroscience Discovery, F. Hoffman La Roche, 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
(5)1] Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego,
California 92093, USA [2] Neurobiology Section in the Division of Biological
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, California 92093, USA [3] Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92097, USA [4] Department 
of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Diego, California 92093, USA.

How specific features in the environment are represented within the brain is an
important unanswered question in neuroscience. A subset of retinal neurons,
called direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs), are specialized for detecting 
motion along specific axes of the visual field. Despite extensive study of the
retinal circuitry that endows DSGCs with their unique tuning properties, their
downstream circuitry in the brain and thus their contribution to visual
processing has remained unclear. In mice, several different types of DSGCs
connect to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN), the visual thalamic
structure that harbours cortical relay neurons. Whether direction-selective
information computed at the level of the retina is routed to cortical circuits
and integrated with other visual channels, however, is unknown. Here we show that
there is a di-synaptic circuit linking DSGCs with the superficial layers of the
primary visual cortex (V1) by using viral trans-synaptic circuit mapping and
functional imaging of visually driven calcium signals in thalamocortical axons.
This circuit pools information from several types of DSGCs, converges in a
specialized subdivision of the dLGN, and delivers direction-tuned and
orientation-tuned signals to superficial V1. Notably, this circuit is
anatomically segregated from the retino-geniculo-cortical pathway carrying
non-direction-tuned visual information to deeper layers of V1, such as layer 4.
Thus, the mouse harbours several functionally specialized, parallel
retino-geniculo-cortical pathways, one of which originates with retinal DSGCs and
delivers direction- and orientation-tuned information specifically to the
superficial layers of the primary visual cortex. These data provide evidence that
direction and orientation selectivity of some V1 neurons may be influenced by the
activation of DSGCs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12989 
PMCID: PMC4143386
PMID: 24572358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):335-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12995. Epub 2014 Feb 23.

The remnant of a merger between two dwarf galaxies in Andromeda II.

Amorisco NC(1), Evans NW(2), van de Ven G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Dark Cosmology Centre, Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane
Maries Vej 30, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3
0HA, UK.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Astronomy, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.

Driven by gravity, massive structures like galaxies and clusters of galaxies are 
believed to grow continuously through hierarchical merging and accretion of
smaller systems. Observational evidence of accretion events is provided by the
coherent stellar streams crossing the outer haloes of massive galaxies, such as
the Milky Way or Andromeda. At similar mass scales, around 10(11) solar masses in
stars, further evidence of merging activity is also ample. Mergers of lower-mass 
galaxies are expected within the hierarchical process of galaxy formation, but
have hitherto not been seen for galaxies with less than about 10(9) solar masses 
in stars. Here we report the kinematic detection of a stellar stream in one of
the satellite galaxies of Andromeda, the dwarf spheroidal Andromeda II, which has
a mass of only 10(7) solar masses in stars. The properties of the stream show
that we are observing the remnant of a merger between two dwarf galaxies. This
had a drastic influence on the dynamics of the remnant, which is now rotating
around its projected major axis. The stellar stream in Andromeda II illustrates
the scale-free character of the formation of galaxies, down to the lowest
galactic mass scales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12995 
PMID: 24572352 


759. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):381-385. doi: 10.1038/nature12974. Epub 2014 Feb
16.

Two independent transcription initiation codes overlap on vertebrate core
promoters.

Haberle V(#)(1)(2), Li N(#)(3), Hadzhiev Y(3), Plessy C(4)(5), Previti C(6),
Nepal C(6), Gehrig J(3), Dong X(6), Akalin A(6), Suzuki AM(4)(5), van IJcken
WFJ(7), Armant O(8), Ferg M(8), Strähle U(8), Carninci P(4)(5), Müller F(3),
Lenhard B(2)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Bergen, Thormøhlensgate 53A, N-5008
Bergen, Norway.
(2)Institute of Clinical Sciences and MRC Clinical Sciences Center, Faculty of
Medicine, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London W12
0NN, United Kingdom.
(3)School of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, College of Medical and Dental
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.
(4)RIKEN Omics Science Center, Yokohama, Kanagawa, 230-0045 Japan (ceased to
exist on 01 April 2013 due to RIKEN reorganisation).
(5)RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies, Division of Genomic Technologies, 
RIKEN Yokohama Campus, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa
230-0045, Japan.
(6)Computational Biology Unit, Uni Computing, Uni Research AS, University of
Bergen, Thormøhlensgate 55, N-5008 Bergen, Norway.
(7)Erasmus Medical Center, Center for Biomics, Room Ee679b, Dr Molewaterplein 50,
3015 GE Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Institute of Toxicology and Genetics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology,
Postfach 3640, 76021 Karlsruhe, Germany.
(9)Department of Informatics, University of Bergen, Thormøhlensgate 55, N-5008
Bergen, Norway.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Apr;15(4):215.

A core promoter is a stretch of DNA surrounding the transcription start site
(TSS) that integrates regulatory inputs and recruits general transcription
factors to initiate transcription. The nature and causative relationship of the
DNA sequence and chromatin signals that govern the selection of most TSSs by RNA 
polymerase II remain unresolved. Maternal to zygotic transition represents the
most marked change of the transcriptome repertoire in the vertebrate life cycle. 
Early embryonic development in zebrafish is characterized by a series of
transcriptionally silent cell cycles regulated by inherited maternal gene
products: zygotic genome activation commences at the tenth cell cycle, marking
the mid-blastula transition. This transition provides a unique opportunity to
study the rules of TSS selection and the hierarchy of events linking
transcription initiation with key chromatin modifications. We analysed TSS usage 
during zebrafish early embryonic development at high resolution using cap
analysis of gene expression, and determined the positions of H3K4me3-marked
promoter-associated nucleosomes. Here we show that the transition from the
maternal to zygotic transcriptome is characterized by a switch between two
fundamentally different modes of defining transcription initiation, which drive
the dynamic change of TSS usage and promoter shape. A maternal-specific TSS
selection, which requires an A/T-rich (W-box) motif, is replaced with a zygotic
TSS selection grammar characterized by broader patterns of dinucleotide
enrichments, precisely aligned with the first downstream (+1) nucleosome. The
developmental dynamics of the H3K4me3-marked nucleosomes reveal their
DNA-sequence-associated positioning at promoters before zygotic transcription and
subsequent transcription-independent adjustment to the final position downstream 
of the zygotic TSS. The two TSS-defining grammars coexist, often physically
overlapping, in core promoters of constitutively expressed genes to enable their 
expression in the two regulatory environments. The dissection of overlapping core
promoter determinants represents a framework for future studies of promoter
structure and function across different regulatory contexts.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12974 
PMCID: PMC4820030
PMID: 24531765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):362-365. doi: 10.1038/nature12972. Epub 2014 Feb
16.

Intestinal crypt homeostasis revealed at single-stem-cell level by in vivo live
imaging.

Ritsma L(#)(1)(2), Ellenbroek SIJ(#)(1)(2), Zomer A(1)(2), Snippert HJ(2)(3), de 
Sauvage FJ(4), Simons BD(5)(6)(7), Clevers H(1)(2), van Rheenen J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Centre Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584 CT, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(2)Cancer Genomics Netherlands.
(3)University Medical Centre Utrecht, Universiteitsweg 100, 3584 CG, Utrecht, the
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech Inc, 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, CA 94080, USA.
(5)Cavendish Laboratory, Department of Physics, J.J. Thomson Avenue, University
of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE, UK.
(6)The Wellcome Trust/Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute, University of
Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(7)Wellcome Trust-Medical Research Council Stem Cell Institute, University of
Cambridge, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Mar 6;14(3):271-3.

The rapid turnover of the mammalian intestinal epithelium is supported by stem
cells located around the base of the crypt. In addition to the Lgr5 marker,
intestinal stem cells have been associated with other markers that are expressed 
heterogeneously within the crypt base region. Previous quantitative clonal fate
analyses have led to the proposal that homeostasis occurs as the consequence of
neutral competition between dividing stem cells. However, the short-term
behaviour of individual Lgr5(+) cells positioned at different locations within
the crypt base compartment has not been resolved. Here we establish the
short-term dynamics of intestinal stem cells using the novel approach of
continuous intravital imaging of Lgr5- Confetti mice. We find that Lgr5(+) cells 
in the upper part of the niche (termed 'border cells') can be passively displaced
into the transit-amplifying domain, after the division of proximate cells,
implying that the determination of stem-cell fate can be uncoupled from division.
Through quantitative analysis of individual clonal lineages, we show that stem
cells at the crypt base, termed 'central cells', experience a survival advantage 
over border stem cells. However, through the transfer of stem cells between the
border and central regions, all Lgr5(+) cells are endowed with long-term
self-renewal potential. These findings establish a novel paradigm for stem-cell
maintenance in which a dynamically heterogeneous cell population is able to
function long term as a single stem-cell pool.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12972 
PMCID: PMC3964820
PMID: 24531760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):350-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12973. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Melanosome evolution indicates a key physiological shift within feathered
dinosaurs.

Li Q(1), Clarke JA(2), Gao KQ(3), Zhou CF(4), Meng Q(5), Li D(6), D'Alba L(7),
Shawkey MD(7).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University
of Geosciences, Beijing 100083, China.
(2)Department of Geological Sciences, University of Texas at Austin, 1 University
Station C1100, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(3)School of Earth and Space Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(4)Institute of Paleontology, Shenyang Normal University, Shenyang 110034, China.
(5)Beijing Museum of Natural History, 126 Tianqiao South Street, Beijing 100050, 
China.
(6)Museum of China University of Geosciences (Beijing), 29 Xueyuan Road, 100083, 
China.
(7)Department of Biology and Integrated Bioscience Program, University of Akron, 
Akron, Ohio 44325-3908, USA.

Inference of colour patterning in extinct dinosaurs has been based on the
relationship between the morphology of melanin-containing organelles
(melanosomes) and colour in extant bird feathers. When this relationship evolved 
relative to the origin of feathers and other novel integumentary structures, such
as hair and filamentous body covering in extinct archosaurs, has not been
evaluated. Here we sample melanosomes from the integument of 181 extant amniote
taxa and 13 lizard, turtle, dinosaur and pterosaur fossils from the
Upper-Jurassic and Lower-Cretaceous of China. We find that in the lineage leading
to birds, the observed increase in the diversity of melanosome morphologies
appears abruptly, near the origin of pinnate feathers in maniraptoran dinosaurs. 
Similarly, mammals show an increased diversity of melanosome form compared to all
ectothermic amniotes. In these two clades, mammals and maniraptoran dinosaurs
including birds, melanosome form and colour are linked and colour reconstruction 
may be possible. By contrast, melanosomes in lizard, turtle and crocodilian skin,
as well as the archosaurian filamentous body coverings (dinosaur 'protofeathers' 
and pterosaur 'pycnofibres'), show a limited diversity of form that is
uncorrelated with colour in extant taxa. These patterns may be explained by
convergent changes in the key melanocortin system of mammals and birds, which is 
known to affect pleiotropically both melanin-based colouration and energetic
processes such as metabolic rate in vertebrates, and may therefore support a
significant physiological shift in maniraptoran dinosaurs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12973 
PMID: 24522537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):315-22. doi: 10.1038/nature12965. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

Comprehensive molecular characterization of urothelial bladder carcinoma.

Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network.

Collaborators: Weinstein JN, Akbani R, Broom BM, Wang W, Verhaak RG, McConkey D, 
Lerner S, Morgan M, Creighton CJ, Smith C, Kwiatkowski DJ, Cherniack AD, Kim J,
Sekhar Pedamallu C, Noble MS, Al-Ahmadie HA, Reuter VE, Rosenberg JE, Bajorin DF,
Bochner BH, Solit DB, Koppie T, Robinson B, Gordenin DA, Fargo D, Klimczak LJ,
Roberts SA, Au J, Laird PW, Hinoue T, Schultz N, Ramirez R, Hansel D, Hoadley KA,
Kim WY, Damrauer JS, Baylin SB, Mungall AJ, Robertson AG, Chu A, Kwiatkowski DJ, 
Sougnez C, Cibulskis K, Lichtenstein L, Sivachenko A, Stewart C, Lawrence MS,
Getz G, Lander E, Gabriel SB, Creighton CJ, Donehower L, Cherniack AD, Kim J,
Carter SL, Saksena G, Schumacher SE, Sougnez C, Freeman SS, Jung J, Sekhar
Pedamallu C, Bhatt AS, Pugh T, Getz G, Beroukhim R, Gabriel SB, Meyerson M,
Mungall AJ, Robertson AG, Chu A, Ally A, Balasundaram M, Butterfield YS, Dhalla
N, Hirst C, Holt RA, Jones SJ, Lee D, Li HI, Marra MA, Mayo M, Moore RA, Schein
JE, Sipahimalani P, Tam A, Thiessen N, Wong T, Wye N, Bowlby R, Chuah E, Guin R, 
Jones SJ, Marra MA, Hinoue T, Shen H, Bootwalla MS, Triche T Jr, Lai PH, Van Den 
Berg DJ, Weisenberger DJ, Laird PW, Hansel D, Hoadley KA, Balu S, Bodenheimer T, 
Damrauer JS, Hoyle AP, Jefferys SR, Meng S, Mose LE, Simons JV, Soloway MG, Wu J,
Kim WY, Parker JS, Hayes DN, Roach J, Buda E, Jones CD, Mieczkowski PA, Tan D,
Veluvolu U, Waring S, Auman JT, Perou CM, Wilkerson MD, Santoso N, Parfenov M,
Ren X, Pantazi A, Hadjipanayis A, Seidman J, Kucherlapati R, Lee S, Yang L, Park 
PJ, Baylin SB, Wei Xu A, Protopopov A, Zhang J, Bristow C, Mahadeshwar HS, Seth
S, Song X, Tang J, Zeng D, Chin L, Guo C, Weinstein JN, Akbani R, Broom BM,
McConkey D, Casasent TD, Liu W, Ju Z, Motter T, Peng B, Ryan M, Wang W, Verhaak
RG, Su X, Yang JY, Lorenzi PL, Yao H, Zhang N, Zhang J, Mills GB, Kim J, Noble
MS, Cho J, DiCara D, Frazer S, Gehlenborg N, Heiman DI, Lin P, Liu Y, Stojanov P,
Voet D, Zhang H, Zou L, Chin L, Getz G, Bernard B, Kreisberg D, Reynolds S,
Rovira H, Shmulevich I, Ramirez R, Schultz N, Gao J, Jacobsen A, Aksoy BA,
Antipin Y, Ciriello G, Dresdner G, Gross B, Lee W, Reva B, Shen R, Sinha R, Sumer
SO, Weinhold N, Ladanyi M, Sander C, Benz C, Carlin D, Haussler D, Ng S, Paull
EO, Stuart J, Zhu J, Liu Y, Zhang W, Taylor BS, Lichtenberg TM, Zmuda E, Barr T, 
Black AD, George M, Hanf B, Helsel C, McAllister C, Ramirez NC, Tabler TR, Weaver
S, Wise L, Bowen J, Gastier-Foster JM, Weinstein JN, Lerner S, Jian W, Tello S,
Ittman M, Castro P, McClenden WD, Morgan M, Gibbs R, Liu Y, Saller C, Tarvin K,
DiPiero JM, Owens J, Bollag R, Li Q, Weinberger P, Czerwinski C, Huelsenbeck-Dill
L, Iacocca M, Petrelli N, Rabeno B, Swanson P, Shelton T, Curley E, Gardner J,
Mallery D, Penny R, Van Bang N, Thi Hanh P, Kohl B, Van Le X, Duc Phu B, Thorp R,
Viet Tien N, Quang Vinh L, Sandusky G, Burks E, Christ K, Gee J, Holway A,
Moinzadeh A, Sorcini A, Sullivan T, Al-Ahmadie HA, Bajorin DF, Bochner BH,
Garcia-Grossman IR, Regazzi AM, Solit DB, Rosenberg JE, Reuter VE, Koppie T,
Boice L, Kimryn Rathmell W, Thorne L, Bastacky S, Davies B, Dhir R, Gingrich J,
Hrebinko R, Maranchie J, Nelson J, Parwani A, Bshara W, Gaudioso C, Morrison C,
Alexopoulou V, Bartlett J, Engel J, Kodeeswaran S, Antic T, O'Donnell PH, Smith
ND, Steinberg GD, Egea S, Gomez-Fernandez C, Herbert L, Jorda M, Soloway M,
Beaver A, Carter S, Kapur P, Lewis C, Lotan Y, Robinson B, Hansel D, Guo C,
Bondaruk J, Czerniak B, Akbani R, Broom BM, Liu Y, Zhang W, Weinstein JN, Lerner 
S, Morgan M, Kim J, Cherniack AD, Freeman SS, Sekhar Pedamallu C, Noble MS,
Kwiatkowski DJ, Al-Ahmadie HA, Bajorin DF, Bochner BH, Solit DB, Rosenberg JE,
Reuter VE, Koppie T, Robinson B, Skinner E, Ramirez R, Schultz N, Hansel D, Kim
WY, Guo C, Bondaruk J, Aldape K, Czerniak B, Jensen MA, Kahn AB, Pihl TD, Pot DA,
Srinivasan D, Wan Y, Ferguson ML, Zenklusen JC, Davidsen T, Demchok JA, Mills
Shaw KR, Sheth M, Tarnuzzer R, Wang Z, Yang L, Hutter C, Ozenberger BA, Sofia HJ,
Eley G.

Urothelial carcinoma of the bladder is a common malignancy that causes
approximately 150,000 deaths per year worldwide. So far, no molecularly targeted 
agents have been approved for treatment of the disease. As part of The Cancer
Genome Atlas project, we report here an integrated analysis of 131 urothelial
carcinomas to provide a comprehensive landscape of molecular alterations. There
were statistically significant recurrent mutations in 32 genes, including
multiple genes involved in cell-cycle regulation, chromatin regulation, and
kinase signalling pathways, as well as 9 genes not previously reported as
significantly mutated in any cancer. RNA sequencing revealed four expression
subtypes, two of which (papillary-like and basal/squamous-like) were also evident
in microRNA sequencing and protein data. Whole-genome and RNA sequencing
identified recurrent in-frame activating FGFR3-TACC3 fusions and expression or
integration of several viruses (including HPV16) that are associated with gene
inactivation. Our analyses identified potential therapeutic targets in 69% of the
tumours, including 42% with targets in the phosphatidylinositol-3-OH
kinase/AKT/mTOR pathway and 45% with targets (including ERBB2) in the RTK/MAPK
pathway. Chromatin regulatory genes were more frequently mutated in urothelial
carcinoma than in any other common cancer studied so far, indicating the future
possibility of targeted therapy for chromatin abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12965 
PMCID: PMC3962515
PMID: 24476821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Nature. 2014 Mar 20;507(7492):354-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12961. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

The genomic landscape of Neanderthal ancestry in present-day humans.

Sankararaman S(1), Mallick S(1), Dannemann M(2), Prüfer K(2), Kelso J(2), Pääbo
S(2), Patterson N(1), Reich D(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.
(2)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig 04103, Germany.
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Genomic studies have shown that Neanderthals interbred with modern humans, and
that non-Africans today are the products of this mixture. The antiquity of
Neanderthal gene flow into modern humans means that genomic regions that derive
from Neanderthals in any one human today are usually less than a hundred
kilobases in size. However, Neanderthal haplotypes are also distinctive enough
that several studies have been able to detect Neanderthal ancestry at specific
loci. We systematically infer Neanderthal haplotypes in the genomes of 1,004
present-day humans. Regions that harbour a high frequency of Neanderthal alleles 
are enriched for genes affecting keratin filaments, suggesting that Neanderthal
alleles may have helped modern humans to adapt to non-African environments. We
identify multiple Neanderthal-derived alleles that confer risk for disease,
suggesting that Neanderthal alleles continue to shape human biology. An
unexpected finding is that regions with reduced Neanderthal ancestry are enriched
in genes, implying selection to remove genetic material derived from
Neanderthals. Genes that are more highly expressed in testes than in any other
tissue are especially reduced in Neanderthal ancestry, and there is an
approximately fivefold reduction of Neanderthal ancestry on the X chromosome,
which is known from studies of diverse species to be especially dense in male
hybrid sterility genes. These results suggest that part of the explanation for
genomic regions of reduced Neanderthal ancestry is Neanderthal alleles that
caused decreased fertility in males when moved to a modern human genetic
background.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12961 
PMCID: PMC4072735
PMID: 24476815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):221-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13080.

Hydrous mantle transition zone indicated by ringwoodite included within diamond.

Pearson DG(1), Brenker FE(2), Nestola F(3), McNeill J(4), Nasdala L(5), Hutchison
MT(6), Matveev S(1), Mather K(4), Silversmit G(7), Schmitz S(2), Vekemans B(7),
Vincze L(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, 1-26 Earth Sciences Building,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E3, Canada.
(2)Geoscience Institute - Mineralogy, Goethe University, Altenhöferallee 1, 60438
Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)Dipartimento di Geoscienze, Università di Padova, 35137 Padua, Italy.
(4)Department of Earth Sciences, Durham University, Durham DH1 3LE, UK.
(5)Institut für Mineralogie und Kristallographie, Universität Wien, Althanstrasse
14, 1090 Wien, Austria.
(6)Trigon GeoServices Ltd, 2780 South Jones Boulevard, #35-15, Las Vegas, Nevada 
89146, USA.
(7)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281 S12,
B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):174-5.

The ultimate origin of water in the Earth's hydrosphere is in the deep Earth--the
mantle. Theory and experiments have shown that although the water storage
capacity of olivine-dominated shallow mantle is limited, the Earth's transition
zone, at depths between 410 and 660 kilometres, could be a major repository for
water, owing to the ability of the higher-pressure polymorphs of
olivine--wadsleyite and ringwoodite--to host enough water to comprise up to
around 2.5 per cent of their weight. A hydrous transition zone may have a key
role in terrestrial magmatism and plate tectonics, yet despite experimental
demonstration of the water-bearing capacity of these phases, geophysical probes
such as electrical conductivity have provided conflicting results, and the issue 
of whether the transition zone contains abundant water remains highly
controversial. Here we report X-ray diffraction, Raman and infrared spectroscopic
data that provide, to our knowledge, the first evidence for the terrestrial
occurrence of any higher-pressure polymorph of olivine: we find ringwoodite
included in a diamond from Juína, Brazil. The water-rich nature of this
inclusion, indicated by infrared absorption, along with the preservation of the
ringwoodite, is direct evidence that, at least locally, the transition zone is
hydrous, to about 1 weight per cent. The finding also indicates that some
kimberlites must have their primary sources in this deep mantle region.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13080 
PMID: 24622201 


765. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):215-20. doi: 10.1038/nature12963.

Conformation-induced remote meta-C-H activation of amines.

Tang RY(1), Li G(1), Yu JQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Achieving site selectivity in carbon-hydrogen (C-H) functionalization reactions
is a long-standing challenge in organic chemistry. The small differences in
intrinsic reactivity of C-H bonds in any given organic molecule can lead to the
activation of undesired C-H bonds by a non-selective catalyst. One solution to
this problem is to distinguish C-H bonds on the basis of their location in the
molecule relative to a specific functional group. In this context, the activation
of C-H bonds five or six bonds away from a functional group by cyclometallation
has been extensively studied. However, the directed activation of C-H bonds that 
are distal to (more than six bonds away) functional groups has remained
challenging, especially when the target C-H bond is geometrically inaccessible to
directed metallation owing to the ring strain encountered in cyclometallation.
Here we report a recyclable template that directs the olefination and
acetoxylation of distal meta-C-H bonds--as far as 11 bonds away--of anilines and 
benzylic amines. This template is able to direct the meta-selective C-H
functionalization of bicyclic heterocycles via a highly strained,
tricyclic-cyclophane-like palladated intermediate. X-ray and nuclear magnetic
resonance studies reveal that the conformational biases induced by a single
fluorine substitution in the template can be enhanced by using a ligand to switch
from ortho- to meta-selectivity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12963 
PMCID: PMC3980735
PMID: 24622200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):210-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13019.

Interrogating selectivity in catalysis using molecular vibrations.

Milo A(1), Bess EN(1), Sigman MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Utah, 315 South 1400 East, Salt Lake
City, Utah 84112, USA.

The delineation of molecular properties that underlie reactivity and selectivity 
is at the core of physical organic chemistry, and this knowledge can be used to
inform the design of improved synthetic methods or identify new chemical
transformations. For this reason, the mathematical representation of properties
affecting reactivity and selectivity trends, that is, molecular parameters, is
paramount. Correlations produced by equating these molecular parameters with
experimental outcomes are often defined as free-energy relationships and can be
used to evaluate the origin of selectivity and to generate new, experimentally
testable hypotheses. The premise behind successful correlations of this type is
that a systematically perturbed molecular property affects a transition-state
interaction between the catalyst, substrate and any reaction components involved 
in the determination of selectivity. Classic physical organic molecular
descriptors, such as Hammett, Taft or Charton parameters, seek to independently
probe isolated electronic or steric effects. However, these parameters cannot
address simultaneous, non-additive variations to more than one molecular
property, which limits their utility. Here we report a parameter system based on 
the vibrational response of a molecule to infrared radiation that can be used to 
mathematically model and predict selectivity trends for reactions with
interlinked steric and electronic effects at positions of interest. The disclosed
parameter system is mechanistically derived and should find broad use in the
study of chemical and biological systems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13019 
PMID: 24622199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):181-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13118.

The present and future role of microfluidics in biomedical research.

Sackmann EK(1), Fulton AL(2), Beebe DJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Materials Science Program, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wisconsin
Institutes for Medical Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1111 Highland
Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin 53705-2275, USA.
(2)Wendt Commons Library, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 215 North Randall
Avenue, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Wisconsin Institutes for Medical
Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1111 Highland Avenue, Room 6009,
Madison, Wisconsin 53705-2275, USA.

Microfluidics, a technology characterized by the engineered manipulation of
fluids at the submillimetre scale, has shown considerable promise for improving
diagnostics and biology research. Certain properties of microfluidic
technologies, such as rapid sample processing and the precise control of fluids
in an assay, have made them attractive candidates to replace traditional
experimental approaches. Here we analyse the progress made by lab-on-a-chip
microtechnologies in recent years, and discuss the clinical and research areas in
which they have made the greatest impact. We also suggest directions that
biologists, engineers and clinicians can take to help this technology live up to 
its potential.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13118 
PMID: 24622198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):229-32. doi: 10.1038/nature13112. Epub 2014 Mar 5.

doublesex is a mimicry supergene.

Kunte K(1), Zhang W(2), Tenger-Trolander A(3), Palmer DH(4), Martin A(5), Reed
RD(5), Mullen SP(6), Kronforst MR(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] National Center for Biological Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental
Research, Bengaluru 560065, India [2].
(2)1] Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA [2].
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 
60637, USA.
(4)Committee on Evolutionary Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA.
(5)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York 14853, USA.
(6)Department of Biology, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(7)1] Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA [2] Committee on Evolutionary Biology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):172-3.

One of the most striking examples of sexual dimorphism is sex-limited mimicry in 
butterflies, a phenomenon in which one sex--usually the female--mimics a toxic
model species, whereas the other sex displays a different wing pattern.
Sex-limited mimicry is phylogenetically widespread in the swallowtail butterfly
genus Papilio, in which it is often associated with female mimetic polymorphism. 
In multiple polymorphic species, the entire wing pattern phenotype is controlled 
by a single Mendelian 'supergene'. Although theoretical work has explored the
evolutionary dynamics of supergene mimicry, there are almost no empirical data
that address the critical issue of what a mimicry supergene actually is at a
functional level. Using an integrative approach combining genetic and association
mapping, transcriptome and genome sequencing, and gene expression analyses, we
show that a single gene, doublesex, controls supergene mimicry in Papilio
polytes. This is in contrast to the long-held view that supergenes are likely to 
be controlled by a tightly linked cluster of loci. Analysis of gene expression
and DNA sequence variation indicates that isoform expression differences
contribute to the functional differences between dsx mimicry alleles, and protein
sequence evolution may also have a role. Our results combine elements from
different hypotheses for the identity of supergenes, showing that a single gene
can switch the entire wing pattern among mimicry phenotypes but may require
multiple, tightly linked mutations to do so.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13112 
PMID: 24598547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):207-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13031. Epub 2014 Mar 5.

Reflection from the strong gravity regime in a lensed quasar at redshift z =
0.658.

Reis RC(1), Reynolds MT(1), Miller JM(1), Walton DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109,
USA.
(2)Cahill Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):173-4.

The co-evolution of a supermassive black hole with its host galaxy through cosmic
time is encoded in its spin. At z > 2, supermassive black holes are thought to
grow mostly by merger-driven accretion leading to high spin. It is not known,
however, whether below z ≈ 1 these black holes continue to grow by coherent
accretion or in a chaotic manner, though clear differences are predicted in their
spin evolution. An established method of measuring the spin of black holes is
through the study of relativistic reflection features from the inner accretion
disk. Owing to their greater distances from Earth, there has hitherto been no
significant detection of relativistic reflection features in a moderate-redshift 
quasar. Here we report an analysis of archival X-ray data together with a deep
observation of a gravitationally lensed quasar at z = 0.658. The emission
originates within three or fewer gravitational radii from the black hole,
implying a spin parameter (a measure of how fast the black hole is rotating) of a
= 0.87(+0.08)(-0.15) at the 3σ confidence level and a > 0.66 at the 5σ level. The
high spin found here is indicative of growth by coherent accretion for this black
hole, and suggests that black-hole growth at 0.5 ≤ z ≤ 1 occurs principally by
coherent rather than chaotic accretion episodes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13031 
PMID: 24598545 


770. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):233-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13131. Epub 2014 Mar 5.

Dynamic sensory cues shape song structure in Drosophila.

Coen P(1), Clemens J(1), Weinstein AJ(1), Pacheco DA(1), Deng Y(2), Murthy M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA [2] Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(2)1] Department of Physics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544,
USA [2] Department of Biophysics, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):177-8.

The generation of acoustic communication signals is widespread across the animal 
kingdom, and males of many species, including Drosophilidae, produce patterned
courtship songs to increase their chance of success with a female. For some
animals, song structure can vary considerably from one rendition to the next;
neural noise within pattern generating circuits is widely assumed to be the
primary source of such variability, and statistical models that incorporate
neural noise are successful at reproducing the full variation present in natural 
songs. In direct contrast, here we demonstrate that much of the pattern
variability in Drosophila courtship song can be explained by taking into account 
the dynamic sensory experience of the male. In particular, using a quantitative
behavioural assay combined with computational modelling, we find that males use
fast modulations in visual and self-motion signals to pattern their songs, a
relationship that we show is evolutionarily conserved. Using neural circuit
manipulations, we also identify the pathways involved in song patterning choices 
and show that females are sensitive to song features. Our data not only
demonstrate that Drosophila song production is not a fixed action pattern, but
establish Drosophila as a valuable new model for studies of rapid decision-making
under both social and naturalistic conditions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13131 
PMID: 24598544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):195-200. doi: 10.1038/nature13124. Epub 2014 Mar 5.

C9orf72 nucleotide repeat structures initiate molecular cascades of disease.

Haeusler AR(1), Donnelly CJ(2), Periz G(1), Simko EA(1), Shaw PG(3), Kim MS(3),
Maragakis NJ(4), Troncoso JC(5), Pandey A(3), Sattler R(2), Rothstein JD(6), Wang
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Johns Hopkins University 
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA [2] Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins
University Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(2)1] Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA [2] The Brain Science Institute, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.
(3)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, Maryland 21205,
USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, Maryland, 21205, 
USA.
(6)1] Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA [2] Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA [3] The Brain Science Institute, Johns Hopkins University
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):175-7.

A hexanucleotide repeat expansion (HRE), (GGGGCC)n, in C9orf72 is the most common
genetic cause of the neurodegenerative diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Here we identify a molecular mechanism
by which structural polymorphism of the HRE leads to ALS/FTD pathology and
defects. The HRE forms DNA and RNA G-quadruplexes with distinct structures and
promotes RNA•DNA hybrids (R-loops). The structural polymorphism causes a
repeat-length-dependent accumulation of transcripts aborted in the HRE region.
These transcribed repeats bind to ribonucleoproteins in a conformation-dependent 
manner. Specifically, nucleolin, an essential nucleolar protein, preferentially
binds the HRE G-quadruplex, and patient cells show evidence of nucleolar stress. 
Our results demonstrate that distinct C9orf72 HRE structural polymorphism at both
DNA and RNA levels initiates molecular cascades leading to ALS/FTD pathologies,
and provide the basis for a mechanistic model for repeat-associated
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13124 
PMCID: PMC4046618
PMID: 24598541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):248-52. doi: 10.1038/nature12920. Epub 2014 Feb 23.

A transcriptional switch underlies commitment to sexual development in malaria
parasites.

Kafsack BF(1), Rovira-Graells N(2), Clark TG(3), Bancells C(4), Crowley VM(5),
Campino SG(6), Williams AE(7), Drought LG(8), Kwiatkowski DP(9), Baker DA(8),
Cortés A(10), Llinás M(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA [2] Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson 
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA (B.F.C.K.); Department of 
Molecular Biology and Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics, The Pennsylvania
State University, State College, Pennsylvania 16802, USA (V.M.C., M.L.).
(2)1] Barcelona Centre for International Health Research (CRESIB, Hospital
Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona), Barcelona, 08036 Catalonia, Spain [2] Institute
for Research in Biomedicine (IRB), Barcelona, 08028 Catalonia, Spain.
(3)1] Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene &
Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, UK [2] Faculty of Epidemiology and Population
Health, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, UK.
(4)Barcelona Centre for International Health Research (CRESIB, Hospital
Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona), Barcelona, 08036 Catalonia, Spain.
(5)1] Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA [2] Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB),
Barcelona, 08028 Catalonia, Spain [3] Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA (B.F.C.K.); Department of 
Molecular Biology and Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics, The Pennsylvania
State University, State College, Pennsylvania 16802, USA (V.M.C., M.L.).
(6)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10
1SA, UK.
(7)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA.
(8)Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene &
Tropical Medicine, London WC1E 7HT, UK.
(9)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10
1SA, UK [2] Wellcome Trust Sanger Centre for Human Genetics, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.
(10)1] Barcelona Centre for International Health Research (CRESIB, Hospital
Clínic-Universitat de Barcelona), Barcelona, 08036 Catalonia, Spain [2] Institute
for Research in Biomedicine (IRB), Barcelona, 08028 Catalonia, Spain [3] Catalan 
Institution for Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Barcelona, 08010
Catalonia, Spain.
(11)1] Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA [2] Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton
University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA [3] Division of Basic Sciences, Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA (B.F.C.K.);
Department of Molecular Biology and Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics, The
Pennsylvania State University, State College, Pennsylvania 16802, USA (V.M.C.,
M.L.).

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 May 5;24(9):R368-70.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Apr;12(4):233.

The life cycles of many parasites involve transitions between disparate host
species, requiring these parasites to go through multiple developmental stages
adapted to each of these specialized niches. Transmission of malaria parasites
(Plasmodium spp.) from humans to the mosquito vector requires differentiation
from asexual stages replicating within red blood cells into non-dividing male and
female gametocytes. Although gametocytes were first described in 1880, our
understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in commitment to gametocyte
formation is extremely limited, and disrupting this critical developmental
transition remains a long-standing goal. Here we show that expression levels of
the DNA-binding protein PfAP2-G correlate strongly with levels of gametocyte
formation. Using independent forward and reverse genetics approaches, we
demonstrate that PfAP2-G function is essential for parasite sexual
differentiation. By combining genome-wide PfAP2-G cognate motif occurrence with
global transcriptional changes resulting from PfAP2-G ablation, we identify early
gametocyte genes as probable targets of PfAP2-G and show that their regulation by
PfAP2-G is critical for their wild-type level expression. In the asexual
blood-stage parasites pfap2-g appears to be among a set of epigenetically
silenced loci prone to spontaneous activation. Stochastic activation presents a
simple mechanism for a low baseline of gametocyte production. Overall, these
findings identify PfAP2-G as a master regulator of sexual-stage development in
malaria parasites and mark the first discovery of a transcriptional switch
controlling a differentiation decision in protozoan parasites.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12920 
PMCID: PMC4040541
PMID: 24572369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):253-257. doi: 10.1038/nature12970. Epub 2014 Feb
23.

A cascade of DNA-binding proteins for sexual commitment and development in
Plasmodium.

Sinha A(#)(1), Hughes KR(#)(1), Modrzynska KK(#)(2), Otto TD(2), Pfander C(2),
Dickens NJ(1), Religa AA(1), Bushell E(2), Graham AL(1), Cameron R(1), Kafsack
BFC(3), Williams AE(3)(4), Llinas M(3)(4), Berriman M(2), Billker O(2), Waters
AP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Molecular Parasitology, University of Glasgow.
(2)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, 
USA.
(4)Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Apr;12(4):233.

Commitment to and completion of sexual development are essential for malaria
parasites (protists of the genus Plasmodium) to be transmitted through
mosquitoes. The molecular mechanism(s) responsible for commitment have been
hitherto unknown. Here we show that PbAP2-G, a conserved member of the
apicomplexan AP2 (ApiAP2) family of DNA-binding proteins, is essential for the
commitment of asexually replicating forms to sexual development in Plasmodium
berghei, a malaria parasite of rodents. PbAP2-G was identified from mutations in 
its encoding gene, PBANKA_143750, which account for the loss of sexual
development frequently observed in parasites transmitted artificially by blood
passage. Systematic gene deletion of conserved ApiAP2 genes in Plasmodium
confirmed the role of PbAP2-G and revealed a second ApiAP2 member (PBANKA_103430,
here termed PbAP2-G2) that significantly modulates but does not abolish
gametocytogenesis, indicating that a cascade of ApiAP2 proteins are involved in
commitment to the production and maturation of gametocytes. The data suggest a
mechanism of commitment to gametocytogenesis in Plasmodium consistent with a
positive feedback loop involving PbAP2-G that could be exploited to prevent the
transmission of this pernicious parasite.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12970 
PMCID: PMC4105895
PMID: 24572359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):258-261. doi: 10.1038/nature12971. Epub 2014 Feb
16.

DNA-guided DNA interference by a prokaryotic Argonaute.

Swarts DC(#)(1), Jore MM(#)(1), Westra ER(1), Zhu Y(1), Janssen JH(1), Snijders
AP(2), Wang Y(3), Patel DJ(4), Berenguer J(5), Brouns SJJ(1), van der Oost J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology, Department of Agrotechnology and Food Sciences,
Wageningen University, Dreijenplein 10, 6703 HB Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(2)Clare Hall Laboratories, Cancer Research UK, London Research Institute, South 
Mimms EN6 3LD, UK.
(3)Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(4)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York 10065, USA.
(5)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, UAM-CSIC, Campus de Cantoblanco,
28049 Madrid, Spain.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Science. 2014 May 30;344(6187):972-3.
    Microb Cell. 2014 Apr 15;1(5):158-159.

RNA interference is widely distributed in eukaryotes and has a variety of
functions, including antiviral defence and gene regulation. All RNA interference 
pathways use small single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) molecules that guide proteins of
the Argonaute (Ago) family to complementary ssRNA targets: RNA-guided RNA
interference. The role of prokaryotic Ago variants has remained elusive, although
bioinformatics analysis has suggested their involvement in host defence. Here we 
demonstrate that Ago of the bacterium Thermus thermophilus (TtAgo) acts as a
barrier for the uptake and propagation of foreign DNA. In vivo, TtAgo is loaded
with 5'-phosphorylated DNA guides, 13-25 nucleotides in length, that are mostly
plasmid derived and have a strong bias for a 5'-end deoxycytidine. These small
interfering DNAs guide TtAgo to cleave complementary DNA strands. Hence, despite 
structural homology to its eukaryotic counterparts, TtAgo functions in host
defence by DNA-guided DNA interference.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12971 
PMCID: PMC4697943
PMID: 24531762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):243-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12967. Epub 2014 Feb 9.

L-Myc expression by dendritic cells is required for optimal T-cell priming.

KC W(1), Satpathy AT(1), Rapaport AS(1), Briseño CG(1), Wu X(1), Albring JC(2),
Russler-Germain EV(1), Kretzer NM(1), Durai V(1), Persaud SP(1), Edelson BT(1),
Loschko J(3), Cella M(1), Allen PM(1), Nussenzweig MC(3), Colonna M(1), Sleckman 
BP(1), Murphy TL(1), Murphy KM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine A, Hematology and Oncology, University of Muenster,
48149 Muenster, Germany.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The
Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)1] Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid
Avenue, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

The transcription factors c-Myc and N-Myc--encoded by Myc and Mycn,
respectively--regulate cellular growth and are required for embryonic
development. A third paralogue, Mycl1, is dispensable for normal embryonic
development but its biological function has remained unclear. To examine the in
vivo function of Mycl1 in mice, we generated an inactivating Mycl1(gfp) allele
that also reports Mycl1 expression. We find that Mycl1 is selectively expressed
in dendritic cells (DCs) of the immune system and controlled by IRF8, and that
during DC development, Mycl1 expression is initiated in the common DC progenitor 
concurrent with reduction in c-Myc expression. Mature DCs lack expression of
c-Myc and N-Myc but maintain L-Myc expression even in the presence of
inflammatory signals such as granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor.
All DC subsets develop in Mycl1-deficient mice, but some subsets such as
migratory CD103(+) conventional DCs in the lung and liver are greatly reduced at 
steady state. Importantly, loss of L-Myc by DCs causes a significant decrease in 
in vivo T-cell priming during infection by Listeria monocytogenes and vesicular
stomatitis virus. The replacement of c-Myc by L-Myc in immature DCs may provide
for Myc transcriptional activity in the setting of inflammation that is required 
for optimal T-cell priming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12967 
PMCID: PMC3954917
PMID: 24509714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):201-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12966. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Proof of principle for epitope-focused vaccine design.

Correia BE(1), Bates JT(2), Loomis RJ(3), Baneyx G(4), Carrico C(5), Jardine
JG(6), Rupert P(5), Correnti C(5), Kalyuzhniy O(7), Vittal V(4), Connell MJ(3),
Stevens E(4), Schroeter A(4), Chen M(8), Macpherson S(6), Serra AM(7), Adachi
Y(7), Holmes MA(9), Li Y(10), Klevit RE(4), Graham BS(8), Wyatt RT(10), Baker
D(4), Strong RK(5), Crowe JE Jr(11), Johnson PR(3), Schief WR(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] PhD Program in Computational Biology, Instituto Gulbenkian Ciência
and Instituto de Tecnologia Química e Biológica, Universidade Nova de Lisboa,
Oeiras 2780-157, Portugal [3] Department of Chemical Physiology, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(2)The Vanderbilt Vaccine Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(3)The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Research Institute, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(5)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington 98109-1024, USA.
(6)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [3] IAVI Neutralizing
Antibody Center, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA 
[4] Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology and Immunogen Discovery, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(7)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] IAVI Neutralizing Antibody Center, The Scripps Research Institute,
La Jolla, California 92037, USA [3] Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology and
Immunogen Discovery, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, 
USA.
(8)Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(9)1] Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, Washington 98109-1024, USA [2].
(10)1] Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [2] IAVI Neutralizing Antibody Center,
The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA [3] Center for
HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology and Immunogen Discovery, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(11)1] The Vanderbilt Vaccine Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,
Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA [2] Department of Pathology, Microbiology and
Immunology, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA [3]
Department of Pediatrics, Vanderbilt Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, 
USA.

Vaccines prevent infectious disease largely by inducing protective neutralizing
antibodies against vulnerable epitopes. Several major pathogens have resisted
traditional vaccine development, although vulnerable epitopes targeted by
neutralizing antibodies have been identified for several such cases. Hence, new
vaccine design methods to induce epitope-specific neutralizing antibodies are
needed. Here we show, with a neutralization epitope from respiratory syncytial
virus, that computational protein design can generate small, thermally and
conformationally stable protein scaffolds that accurately mimic the viral epitope
structure and induce potent neutralizing antibodies. These scaffolds represent
promising leads for the research and development of a human respiratory syncytial
virus vaccine needed to protect infants, young children and the elderly. More
generally, the results provide proof of principle for epitope-focused and
scaffold-based vaccine design, and encourage the evaluation and further
development of these strategies for a variety of other vaccine targets, including
antigenically highly variable pathogens such as human immunodeficiency virus and 
influenza.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12966 
PMCID: PMC4260937
PMID: 24499818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):190-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12930. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Alveolar progenitor and stem cells in lung development, renewal and cancer.

Desai TJ(1), Brownfield DG(2), Krasnow MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5307, USA [2]
Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5307, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5307, USA.

Alveoli are gas-exchange sacs lined by squamous alveolar type (AT) 1 cells and
cuboidal, surfactant-secreting AT2 cells. Classical studies suggested that AT1
arise from AT2 cells, but recent studies propose other sources. Here we use
molecular markers, lineage tracing and clonal analysis to map alveolar
progenitors throughout the mouse lifespan. We show that, during development, AT1 
and AT2 cells arise directly from a bipotent progenitor, whereas after birth new 
AT1 cells derive from rare, self-renewing, long-lived, mature AT2 cells that
produce slowly expanding clonal foci of alveolar renewal. This stem-cell function
is broadly activated by AT1 injury, and AT2 self-renewal is selectively induced
by EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) ligands in vitro and oncogenic
Kras(G12D) in vivo, efficiently generating multifocal, clonal adenomas. Thus,
there is a switch after birth, when AT2 cells function as stem cells that
contribute to alveolar renewal, repair and cancer. We propose that local signals 
regulate AT2 stem-cell activity: a signal transduced by EGFR-KRAS controls
self-renewal and is hijacked during oncogenesis, whereas another signal controls 
reprogramming to AT1 fate.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12930 
PMCID: PMC4013278
PMID: 24499815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):238-42. doi: 10.1038/nature12956. Epub 2014 Feb 2.

An excitatory paraventricular nucleus to AgRP neuron circuit that drives hunger.

Krashes MJ(1), Shah BP(1), Madara JC(2), Olson DP(3), Strochlic DE(4), Garfield
AS(5), Vong L(3), Pei H(6), Watabe-Uchida M(7), Uchida N(8), Liberles SD(4),
Lowell BB(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Diabetes, Endocrinology and Obesity Branch, National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA (M.J.K.); National Institute on Drug Abuse,
National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA (M.J.K.);
Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases, Pfizer, 610 Main Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA (B.P.S.); Division of Pediatric Endocrinology,
Departments of Pediatrics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA
(D.P.O.); Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases, Novartis Institutes for
BioMedical Research, 100 Technology Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA
(L.V.). [3].
(2)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(3)1] Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Diabetes, Endocrinology and Obesity Branch, National
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA (M.J.K.); National Institute on Drug Abuse,
National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA (M.J.K.);
Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases, Pfizer, 610 Main Street, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA (B.P.S.); Division of Pediatric Endocrinology,
Departments of Pediatrics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA
(D.P.O.); Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases, Novartis Institutes for
BioMedical Research, 100 Technology Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA
(L.V.).
(4)1] Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Center for Integrative Physiology, University of
Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9XD, UK.
(6)Division of Pediatric Endocrinology, Departments of Pediatrics, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA.
(7)Center for Brain Science, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology,
Harvard University, 16 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(8)1] Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA [2] Center for Brain Science, Department of Molecular and Cellular
Biology, Harvard University, 16 Divinity Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA.
(9)1] Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Hunger is a hard-wired motivational state essential for survival. Agouti-related 
peptide (AgRP)-expressing neurons in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) at the base of the
hypothalamus are crucial to the control of hunger. They are activated by caloric 
deficiency and, when naturally or artificially stimulated, they potently induce
intense hunger and subsequent food intake. Consistent with their obligatory role 
in regulating appetite, genetic ablation or chemogenetic inhibition of AgRP
neurons decreases feeding. Excitatory input to AgRP neurons is important in
caloric-deficiency-induced activation, and is notable for its remarkable degree
of caloric-state-dependent synaptic plasticity. Despite the important role of
excitatory input, its source(s) has been unknown. Here, through the use of
Cre-recombinase-enabled, cell-specific neuron mapping techniques in mice, we have
discovered strong excitatory drive that, unexpectedly, emanates from the
hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, specifically from subsets of neurons
expressing thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP, also known as ADCYAP1). Chemogenetic
stimulation of these afferent neurons in sated mice markedly activates AgRP
neurons and induces intense feeding. Conversely, acute inhibition in mice with
caloric-deficiency-induced hunger decreases feeding. Discovery of these afferent 
neurons capable of triggering hunger advances understanding of how this intense
motivational state is regulated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12956 
PMCID: PMC3955843
PMID: 24487620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):225-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12960. Epub 2014 Jan 26.

Derived immune and ancestral pigmentation alleles in a 7,000-year-old Mesolithic 
European.

Olalde I(1), Allentoft ME(2), Sánchez-Quinto F(3), Santpere G(3), Chiang CW(4),
DeGiorgio M(5), Prado-Martinez J(3), Rodríguez JA(3), Rasmussen S(6), Quilez
J(3), Ramírez O(3), Marigorta UM(3), Fernández-Callejo M(3), Prada ME(7), Encinas
JM(8), Nielsen R(9), Netea MG(10), Novembre J(11), Sturm RA(12), Sabeti P(13),
Marquès-Bonet T(14), Navarro A(15), Willerslev E(16), Lalueza-Fox C(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut de Biologia Evolutiva, CSIC-UPF, Barcelona 08003, Spain [2].
(2)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark [2].
(3)Institut de Biologia Evolutiva, CSIC-UPF, Barcelona 08003, Spain.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los 
Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(5)1] Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University,
502 Wartik Laboratory, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(6)Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, Technical University of Denmark,
DK-2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark.
(7)I.E.S.O. 'Los Salados', Junta de Castilla y León, E-49600 Benavente, Spain.
(8)Junta de Castilla y León, Servicio de Cultura de León, E-24071 León, Spain.
(9)Center for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine and Nijmegen Institute for Infection, Inflammation and
Immunity, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, 6500 Nijmegen, The
Netherlands.
(11)Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(12)Institute for Molecular Bioscience, Melanogenix Group, The University of
Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(13)1] Center for Systems Biology, Department of Organismic and Evolutionary
Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Broad
Institute of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(14)1] Institut de Biologia Evolutiva, CSIC-UPF, Barcelona 08003, Spain [2]
Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), 08010 Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain.
(15)1] Institut de Biologia Evolutiva, CSIC-UPF, Barcelona 08003, Spain [2]
Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), 08010 Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain [3] Centre de Regulació Genòmica (CRG), Barcelona 08003,
Catalonia, Spain [4] National Institute for Bioinformatics (INB), Barcelona
08003, Catalonia, Spain.
(16)Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark.

Ancient genomic sequences have started to reveal the origin and the demographic
impact of farmers from the Neolithic period spreading into Europe. The adoption
of farming, stock breeding and sedentary societies during the Neolithic may have 
resulted in adaptive changes in genes associated with immunity and diet. However,
the limited data available from earlier hunter-gatherers preclude an
understanding of the selective processes associated with this crucial transition 
to agriculture in recent human evolution. Here we sequence an approximately
7,000-year-old Mesolithic skeleton discovered at the La Braña-Arintero site in
León, Spain, to retrieve a complete pre-agricultural European human genome.
Analysis of this genome in the context of other ancient samples suggests the
existence of a common ancient genomic signature across western and central
Eurasia from the Upper Paleolithic to the Mesolithic. The La Braña individual
carries ancestral alleles in several skin pigmentation genes, suggesting that the
light skin of modern Europeans was not yet ubiquitous in Mesolithic times.
Moreover, we provide evidence that a significant number of derived, putatively
adaptive variants associated with pathogen resistance in modern Europeans were
already present in this hunter-gatherer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12960 
PMCID: PMC4269527
PMID: 24463515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):86-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12993.

Self-assembly of hydrogen-bonded two-dimensional quasicrystals.

Wasio NA(1), Quardokus RC(1), Forrest RP(1), Lent CS(2), Corcelli SA(1), Christie
JA(1), Henderson KW(1), Kandel SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana 46556, USA.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
Indiana 46556, USA.

The process of molecular self-assembly on solid surfaces is essentially one of
crystallization in two dimensions, and the structures that result depend on the
interplay between intermolecular forces and the interaction between adsorbates
and the underlying substrate. Because a single hydrogen bond typically has an
energy between 15 and 35 kilojoules per mole, hydrogen bonding can be a strong
driver of molecular assembly; this is apparent from the dominant role of hydrogen
bonding in nucleic-acid base pairing, as well as in the secondary structure of
proteins. Carboxylic acid functional groups, which provide two hydrogen bonds,
are particularly promising and reliable in creating and maintaining surface
order, and self-assembled monolayers of benzoic acids produce structure that
depends on the number and relative placement of carboxylic acid groups. Here we
use scanning tunnelling microscopy to study self-assembled monolayers of
ferrocenecarboxylic acid (FcCOOH), and find that, rather than producing dimeric
or linear structures typical of carboxylic acids, FcCOOH forms highly unusual
cyclic hydrogen-bonded pentamers, which combine with simultaneously formed FcCOOH
dimers to form two-dimensional quasicrystallites that exhibit local five-fold
symmetry and maintain translational and rotational order (without periodicity)
for distances of more than 400 ångströms.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12993 
PMID: 24598637 


781. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):81-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13029.

Optical detection of radio waves through a nanomechanical transducer.

Bagci T(1), Simonsen A(1), Schmid S(2), Villanueva LG(2), Zeuthen E(1), Appel
J(1), Taylor JM(3), Sørensen A(1), Usami K(1), Schliesser A(1), Polzik ES(1).

Author information: 
(1)Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Micro- and Nanotechnology, Technical University of Denmark, DTU 
Nanotech, 2800 Kongens Lyngby, Denmark.
(3)Joint Quantum Institute/NIST, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):45, 47.

Low-loss transmission and sensitive recovery of weak radio-frequency and
microwave signals is a ubiquitous challenge, crucial in radio astronomy, medical 
imaging, navigation, and classical and quantum communication. Efficient
up-conversion of radio-frequency signals to an optical carrier would enable their
transmission through optical fibres instead of through copper wires, drastically 
reducing losses, and would give access to the set of established quantum optical 
techniques that are routinely used in quantum-limited signal detection. Research 
in cavity optomechanics has shown that nanomechanical oscillators can couple
strongly to either microwave or optical fields. Here we demonstrate a
room-temperature optoelectromechanical transducer with both these
functionalities, following a recent proposal using a high-quality nanomembrane. A
voltage bias of less than 10 V is sufficient to induce strong coupling between
the voltage fluctuations in a radio-frequency resonance circuit and the
membrane's displacement, which is simultaneously coupled to light reflected off
its surface. The radio-frequency signals are detected as an optical phase shift
with quantum-limited sensitivity. The corresponding half-wave voltage is in the
microvolt range, orders of magnitude less than that of standard optical
modulators. The noise of the transducer--beyond the measured 800 pV Hz-1/2
Johnson noise of the resonant circuit--consists of the quantum noise of light and
thermal fluctuations of the membrane, dominating the noise floor in potential
applications in radio astronomy and nuclear magnetic imaging. Each of these
contributions is inferred to be 60 pV Hz-1/2 when balanced by choosing an
electromechanical cooperativity of ~150 with an optical power of 1 mW. The noise 
temperature of the membrane is divided by the cooperativity. For the highest
observed cooperativity of 6,800, this leads to a projected noise temperature of
40 mK and a sensitivity limit of 5 pV Hz-1/2. Our approach to all-optical,
ultralow-noise detection of classical electronic signals sets the stage for
coherent up-conversion of low-frequency quantum signals to the optical domain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13029 
PMID: 24598636 


782. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):57-61. doi: 10.1038/nature13087. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

A predictive fitness model for influenza.

Luksza M(1), Lässig M(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne, Zülpicher Strasse
77, 50937 Köln, Germany [2] Biological Sciences, Columbia University, 607D
Fairchild Center, New York, New York 10027, USA.
(2)Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne, Zülpicher Strasse
77, 50937 Köln, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):47-8.

The seasonal human influenza A/H3N2 virus undergoes rapid evolution, which
produces significant year-to-year sequence turnover in the population of
circulating strains. Adaptive mutations respond to human immune challenge and
occur primarily in antigenic epitopes, the antibody-binding domains of the viral 
surface protein haemagglutinin. Here we develop a fitness model for
haemagglutinin that predicts the evolution of the viral population from one year 
to the next. Two factors are shown to determine the fitness of a strain: adaptive
epitope changes and deleterious mutations outside the epitopes. We infer both
fitness components for the strains circulating in a given year, using
population-genetic data of all previous strains. From fitness and frequency of
each strain, we predict the frequency of its descendent strains in the following 
year. This fitness model maps the adaptive history of influenza A and suggests a 
principled method for vaccine selection. Our results call for a more
comprehensive epidemiology of influenza and other fast-evolving pathogens that
integrates antigenic phenotypes with other viral functions coupled by genetic
linkage.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13087 
PMID: 24572367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):68-72. doi: 10.1038/nature13116. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Molecular basis of nitrate uptake by the plant nitrate transporter NRT1.1.

Parker JL(1), Newstead S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QU, UK.
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QU, UK [2]
Research Complex at Harwell, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot OX11 0FA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):44-5.

The NRT1/PTR family of proton-coupled transporters are responsible for nitrogen
assimilation in eukaryotes and bacteria through the uptake of peptides. However, 
in most plant species members of this family have evolved to transport nitrate as
well as additional secondary metabolites and hormones. In response to falling
nitrate levels, NRT1.1 is phosphorylated on an intracellular threonine that
switches the transporter from a low-affinity to high-affinity state. Here we
present both the apo and nitrate-bound crystal structures of Arabidopsis thaliana
NRT1.1, which together with in vitro binding and transport data identify a key
role for His 356 in nitrate binding. Our data support a model whereby
phosphorylation increases structural flexibility and in turn the rate of
transport. Comparison with peptide transporters further reveals how the NRT1/PTR 
family has evolved to recognize diverse nitrogenous ligands, while maintaining
elements of a conserved coupling mechanism within this superfamily of nutrient
transporters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13116 
PMCID: PMC3982047
PMID: 24572366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):109-13. doi: 10.1038/nature13111. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Ultraviolet-radiation-induced inflammation promotes angiotropism and metastasis
in melanoma.

Bald T(1), Quast T(2), Landsberg J(1), Rogava M(1), Glodde N(1), Lopez-Ramos
D(1), Kohlmeyer J(1), Riesenberg S(3), van den Boorn-Konijnenberg D(3),
Hömig-Hölzel C(3), Reuten R(4), Schadow B(5), Weighardt H(5), Wenzel D(6),
Helfrich I(7), Schadendorf D(7), Bloch W(8), Bianchi ME(9), Lugassy C(10),
Barnhill RL(10), Koch M(4), Fleischmann BK(6), Förster I(5), Kastenmüller W(11), 
Kolanus W(2), Hölzel M(3), Gaffal E(1), Tüting T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Dermatology, Department of Dermatology and Allergy,
University of Bonn, 53115 Bonn, Germany.
(2)Molecular Immunology and Cell Biology, Life and Medical Sciences Institute,
University of Bonn, 53115 Bonn, Germany.
(3)Unit for RNA Biology, Department of Clinical Chemistry and Clinical
Pharmacology, University of Bonn, 53105 Bonn, Germany.
(4)Institute for Dental Research and Oral Musculoskeletal Biology, Center for
Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, University of Cologne, D-50931 Cologne, Germany.
(5)Immunology and Environment, Life and Medical Sciences Institute, University of
Bonn, 53115 Bonn, Germany.
(6)Institute for Physiology I, Life & Brain Center, University of Bonn, 53105
Bonn, Germany.
(7)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Essen, 45122 Essen, Germany.
(8)Institute of Cardiovascular Research and Sport Medicine, Department of
Molecular and Cellular Sport Medicine, German Sport University Cologne, 50933
Cologne, Germany.
(9)Division of Genetics and Cell Biology, San Raffaele University and Scientific 
Institute, 20132 Milan, Italy.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer
Center, University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Medical Center, Los Angeles, 
California 90095, USA.
(11)Institutes of Molecular Medicine and Experimental Immunology, University of
Bonn, 53105 Bonn, Germany.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2014 Sep;27(5):696-7.
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):48-9.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Apr;14(4):213.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Apr;14(4):212.

Intermittent intense ultraviolet (UV) exposure represents an important
aetiological factor in the development of malignant melanoma. The ability of UV
radiation to cause tumour-initiating DNA mutations in melanocytes is now firmly
established, but how the microenvironmental effects of UV radiation influence
melanoma pathogenesis is not fully understood. Here we report that repetitive UV 
exposure of primary cutaneous melanomas in a genetically engineered mouse model
promotes metastatic progression, independent of its tumour-initiating effects. UV
irradiation enhanced the expansion of tumour cells along abluminal blood vessel
surfaces and increased the number of lung metastases. This effect depended on the
recruitment and activation of neutrophils, initiated by the release of high
mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) from UV-damaged epidermal keratinocytes and driven
by Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). The UV-induced neutrophilic inflammatory response
stimulated angiogenesis and promoted the ability of melanoma cells to migrate
towards endothelial cells and use selective motility cues on their surfaces. Our 
results not only reveal how UV irradiation of epidermal keratinocytes is sensed
by the innate immune system, but also show that the resulting inflammatory
response catalyses reciprocal melanoma-endothelial cell interactions leading to
perivascular invasion, a phenomenon originally described as angiotropism in human
melanomas by histopathologists. Angiotropism represents a hitherto
underappreciated mechanism of metastasis that also increases the likelihood of
intravasation and haematogenous dissemination. Consistent with our findings,
ulcerated primary human melanomas with abundant neutrophils and reactive
angiogenesis frequently show angiotropism and a high risk for metastases. Our
work indicates that targeting the inflammation-induced phenotypic plasticity of
melanoma cells and their association with endothelial cells represent rational
strategies to specifically interfere with metastatic progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13111 
PMID: 24572365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13074. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Crystal structure of the plant dual-affinity nitrate transporter NRT1.1.

Sun J(1), Bankston JR(2), Payandeh J(3), Hinds TR(1), Zagotta WN(2), Zheng N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Box 357280, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Box 357290, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(3)1] Department of Pharmacology, Box 357280, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98195, USA [2] Department of Structural Biology, Genentech Inc., South
San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(4)1] Department of Pharmacology, Box 357280, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Box 357280, University
of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):44-5.

Nitrate is a primary nutrient for plant growth, but its levels in soil can
fluctuate by several orders of magnitude. Previous studies have identified
Arabidopsis NRT1.1 as a dual-affinity nitrate transporter that can take up
nitrate over a wide range of concentrations. The mode of action of NRT1.1 is
controlled by phosphorylation of a key residue, Thr 101; however, how this
post-translational modification switches the transporter between two affinity
states remains unclear. Here we report the crystal structure of unphosphorylated 
NRT1.1, which reveals an unexpected homodimer in the inward-facing conformation. 
In this low-affinity state, the Thr 101 phosphorylation site is embedded in a
pocket immediately adjacent to the dimer interface, linking the phosphorylation
status of the transporter to its oligomeric state. Using a cell-based
fluorescence resonance energy transfer assay, we show that functional NRT1.1
dimerizes in the cell membrane and that the phosphomimetic mutation of Thr 101
converts the protein into a monophasic high-affinity transporter by structurally 
decoupling the dimer. Together with analyses of the substrate transport tunnel,
our results establish a phosphorylation-controlled dimerization switch that
allows NRT1.1 to uptake nitrate with two distinct affinity modes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13074 
PMCID: PMC3968801
PMID: 24572362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):51-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13043. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Disclinations provide the missing mechanism for deforming olivine-rich rocks in
the mantle.

Cordier P(1), Demouchy S(2), Beausir B(3), Taupin V(3), Barou F(2), Fressengeas
C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unité Matériaux et Transformations, UMR 8207 CNRS and Université Lille 1,
59650 Villeneuve d'Ascq, France.
(2)Geosciences Montpellier, UMR 5342 CNRS and Université de Montpellier 2, 34095 
Montpellier, France.
(3)Laboratoire d'Etude des Microstructures et de Mécanique des Matériaux, UMR
7239 CNRS and Université de Lorraine, Ile du Saulcy, 57045 Metz Cedex, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):42-3.

Mantle flow involves large strains of polymineral aggregates. The strongly
anisotropic plastic response of each individual grain in the aggregate results
from the interactions between neighbouring grains and the continuity of material 
displacement across the grain boundaries. Orthorhombic olivine, which is the
dominant mineral phase of the Earth's upper mantle, does not exhibit enough slip 
systems to accommodate a general deformation state by intracrystalline slip
without inducing damage. Here we show that a more general description of the
deformation process that includes the motion of rotational defects referred to as
disclinations can solve the olivine deformation paradox. We use high-resolution
electron backscattering diffraction (EBSD) maps of deformed olivine aggregates to
resolve the disclinations. The disclinations are found to decorate grain
boundaries in olivine samples deformed experimentally and in nature. We present a
disclination-based model of a high-angle tilt boundary in olivine, which
demonstrates that an applied shear induces grain-boundary migration through
disclination motion. This new approach clarifies grain-boundary-mediated
plasticity in polycrystalline aggregates. By providing the missing mechanism for 
describing plastic flow in olivine, this work will permit multiscale modelling of
the rheology of the upper mantle, from the atomic scale to the scale of the flow.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13043 
PMID: 24572356 


787. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):78-80. doi: 10.1038/nature13000. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Change in the chemical composition of infalling gas forming a disk around a
protostar.

Sakai N(1), Sakai T(2), Hirota T(3), Watanabe Y(1), Ceccarelli C(4), Kahane C(4),
Bottinelli S(5), Caux E(5), Demyk K(5), Vastel C(5), Coutens A(6), Taquet V(7),
Ohashi N(8), Takakuwa S(9), Yen HW(10), Aikawa Y(11), Yamamoto S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, The University of Tokyo, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113-0033, Japan.
(2)Department of Communication Engineering and Informatics, The University of
Electro-Communications, Chofu, Tokyo 182-8585, Japan.
(3)National Astronomical Observatory of Japan, Osawa, Mitaka, Tokyo 181-8588,
Japan.
(4)Institut de Planétologie et d'Astrophysique de Grenoble, BP 53, 38041 Grenoble
Cedex 9, France.
(5)1] Université de Toulouse, Université Paul Sabatier, Observatoire
Midi-Pyrénées (UPS-OMP), Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique et Planétologie
(IRAP), Toulouse, France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS),
IRAP, 9 Avenue Colonel Roche, BP 44346, Toulouse 31028 Cedex 4, France.
(6)1] Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Juliane Maries Vej 30,
Copenhagen 2100 Østerbro, Denmark [2] Centre for Star and Planet Formation and
Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, 
Copenhagen 1350 K, Denmark.
(7)National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Goddard Space Flight
Center (GSFC), Astrochemistry Laboratory, Mail Code 691, NASA Goddard Space
Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(8)1] Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics, PO Box 23-141,
Taipei 10617, Taiwan [2] Subaru Telescope, National Astronomical Observatory of
Japan, 650 North A'ohoku Place, Hilo, Hawaii 96720, USA.
(9)Institute of Astrophysics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(10)1] Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics, PO Box 23-141,
Taipei 10617, Taiwan [2] Institute of Astrophysics, National Taiwan University,
Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(11)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Kobe University, Kobe 657-8501,
Japan.

IRAS 04368+2557 is a solar-type (low-mass) protostar embedded in a protostellar
core (L1527) in the Taurus molecular cloud, which is only 140 parsecs away from
Earth, making it the closest large star-forming region. The protostellar envelope
has a flattened shape with a diameter of a thousand astronomical units (1 AU is
the distance from Earth to the Sun), and is infalling and rotating. It also has a
protostellar disk with a radius of 90 AU (ref. 6), from which a planetary system 
is expected to form. The interstellar gas, mainly consisting of hydrogen
molecules, undergoes a change in density of about three orders of magnitude as it
collapses from the envelope into the disk, while being heated from 10 kelvin to
over 100 kelvin in the mid-plane, but it has hitherto not been possible to
explore changes in chemical composition associated with this collapse. Here we
report that the unsaturated hydrocarbon molecule cyclic-C3H2 resides in the
infalling rotating envelope, whereas sulphur monoxide (SO) is enhanced in the
transition zone at the radius of the centrifugal barrier (100 ± 20 AU), which is 
the radius at which the kinetic energy of the infalling gas is converted to
rotational energy. Such a drastic change in chemistry at the centrifugal barrier 
was not anticipated, but is probably caused by the discontinuous infalling motion
at the centrifugal barrier and local heating processes there.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13000 
PMID: 24522533 


788. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):118-23. doi: 10.1038/nature12951. Epub 2014 Feb 2.

Polarized release of T-cell-receptor-enriched microvesicles at the immunological 
synapse.

Choudhuri K(1), Llodrá J(2), Roth EW(3), Tsai J(4), Gordo S(5), Wucherpfennig
KW(5), Kam LC(4), Stokes DL(6), Dustin ML(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Program in Molecular Pathogenesis, Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for
Biology and Medicine of the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, 540
First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA [2].
(2)1] Program in Structural Biology, Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for
Biology and Medicine of the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, 540
First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA [2].
(3)Northwestern University Atomic and Nanoscale Characterization Experimental
Center, Northwestern University, 2220 Campus Drive, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Columbia University, 500 W 120th Street,
New York, New York 10027, USA.
(5)1] Department of Cancer Immunology and AIDS, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 450
Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Program in Immunology,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(6)1] Program in Structural Biology, Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Center for
Biology and Medicine of the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, 540
First Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] New York Structural Biology
Center, 89 Convent Avenue, New York, New York 10027, USA.
(7)1] Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, 540 First 
Avenue, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology,
Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences,
The University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, Headington, Oxford OX3 7FY, UK.

The recognition events that mediate adaptive cellular immunity and regulate
antibody responses depend on intercellular contacts between T cells and
antigen-presenting cells (APCs). T-cell signalling is initiated at these contacts
when surface-expressed T-cell receptors (TCRs) recognize peptide fragments
(antigens) of pathogens bound to major histocompatibility complex molecules
(pMHC) on APCs. This, along with engagement of adhesion receptors, leads to the
formation of a specialized junction between T cells and APCs, known as the
immunological synapse, which mediates efficient delivery of effector molecules
and intercellular signals across the synaptic cleft. T-cell recognition of pMHC
and the adhesion ligand intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) on supported
planar bilayers recapitulates the domain organization of the immunological
synapse, which is characterized by central accumulation of TCRs, adjacent to a
secretory domain, both surrounded by an adhesive ring. Although accumulation of
TCRs at the immunological synapse centre correlates with T-cell function, this
domain is itself largely devoid of TCR signalling activity, and is characterized 
by an unexplained immobilization of TCR-pMHC complexes relative to the highly
dynamic immunological synapse periphery. Here we show that centrally accumulated 
TCRs are located on the surface of extracellular microvesicles that bud at the
immunological synapse centre. Tumour susceptibility gene 101 (TSG101) sorts TCRs 
for inclusion in microvesicles, whereas vacuolar protein sorting 4 (VPS4)
mediates scission of microvesicles from the T-cell plasma membrane. The human
immunodeficiency virus polyprotein Gag co-opts this process for budding of
virus-like particles. B cells bearing cognate pMHC receive TCRs from T cells and 
initiate intracellular signals in response to isolated synaptic microvesicles. We
conclude that the immunological synapse orchestrates TCR sorting and release in
extracellular microvesicles. These microvesicles deliver transcellular signals
across antigen-dependent synapses by engaging cognate pMHC on APCs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12951 
PMCID: PMC3949170
PMID: 24487619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):62-7. doi: 10.1038/nature13011. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

DNA interrogation by the CRISPR RNA-guided endonuclease Cas9.

Sternberg SH(1), Redding S(2), Jinek M(3), Greene EC(4), Doudna JA(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA
[2].
(3)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA [2] Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich, 8057 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(5)1] Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA [3] Department of Molecular and Cell Biology,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [4] Physical
Biosciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2014 Apr;11(4):365.

The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-associated
enzyme Cas9 is an RNA-guided endonuclease that uses RNA-DNA base-pairing to
target foreign DNA in bacteria. Cas9-guide RNA complexes are also effective
genome engineering agents in animals and plants. Here we use single-molecule and 
bulk biochemical experiments to determine how Cas9-RNA interrogates DNA to find
specific cleavage sites. We show that both binding and cleavage of DNA by
Cas9-RNA require recognition of a short trinucleotide protospacer adjacent motif 
(PAM). Non-target DNA binding affinity scales with PAM density, and sequences
fully complementary to the guide RNA but lacking a nearby PAM are ignored by
Cas9-RNA. Competition assays provide evidence that DNA strand separation and
RNA-DNA heteroduplex formation initiate at the PAM and proceed directionally
towards the distal end of the target sequence. Furthermore, PAM interactions
trigger Cas9 catalytic activity. These results reveal how Cas9 uses PAM
recognition to quickly identify potential target sites while scanning large DNA
molecules, and to regulate scission of double-stranded DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13011 
PMCID: PMC4106473
PMID: 24476820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):104-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12942. Epub 2014 Jan 26.

Citrullination regulates pluripotency and histone H1 binding to chromatin.

Christophorou MA(1), Castelo-Branco G(2), Halley-Stott RP(3), Oliveira CS(4),
Loos R(5), Radzisheuskaya A(6), Mowen KA(7), Bertone P(8), Silva JC(6),
Zernicka-Goetz M(9), Nielsen ML(10), Gurdon JB(3), Kouzarides T(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge
CB2 1QN, UK [2].
(2)1] The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge
CB2 1QN, UK [2] Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Medical
Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, SE-17177 Stockholm, Sweden
[3].
(3)1] The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge
CB2 1QN, UK [2] Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street,
Cambridge CB2 3EJ, UK.
(4)1] The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge
CB2 1QN, UK [2] EMBRAPA Dairy Cattle Research Center, Juiz de Fora, Brazil [3]
Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, 
Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(5)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute,
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK.
(6)1] Wellcome Trust-Medical Research Council Cambridge Stem Cell Institute,
University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR, UK [2] Department 
of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR,
UK.
(7)Department of Chemical Physiology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA.
(8)1] European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute,
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK [2] Wellcome Trust-Medical
Research Council Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis
Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR, UK [3] Genome Biology and Developmental Biology
Units, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstraße 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(9)1] The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge
CB2 1QN, UK [2] Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience,
University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(10)Department of proteomics, The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein
Research, University of Copenhagen, Faculty of Health Sciences, Blegdamsvej 3b,
DK-2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(11)1] The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road,
Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK [2] Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge,
Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.

Citrullination is the post-translational conversion of an arginine residue within
a protein to the non-coded amino acid citrulline. This modification leads to the 
loss of a positive charge and reduction in hydrogen-bonding ability. It is
carried out by a small family of tissue-specific vertebrate enzymes called
peptidylarginine deiminases (PADIs) and is associated with the development of
diverse pathological states such as autoimmunity, cancer, neurodegenerative
disorders, prion diseases and thrombosis. Nevertheless, the physiological
functions of citrullination remain ill-defined, although citrullination of core
histones has been linked to transcriptional regulation and the DNA damage
response. PADI4 (also called PAD4 or PADV), the only PADI with a nuclear
localization signal, was previously shown to act in myeloid cells where it
mediates profound chromatin decondensation during the innate immune response to
infection. Here we show that the expression and enzymatic activity of Padi4 are
also induced under conditions of ground-state pluripotency and during
reprogramming in mouse. Padi4 is part of the pluripotency transcriptional
network, binding to regulatory elements of key stem-cell genes and activating
their expression. Its inhibition lowers the percentage of pluripotent cells in
the early mouse embryo and significantly reduces reprogramming efficiency. Using 
an unbiased proteomic approach we identify linker histone H1 variants, which are 
involved in the generation of compact chromatin, as novel PADI4 substrates.
Citrullination of a single arginine residue within the DNA-binding site of H1
results in its displacement from chromatin and global chromatin decondensation.
Together, these results uncover a role for citrullination in the regulation of
pluripotency and provide new mechanistic insights into how citrullination
regulates chromatin compaction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12942 
PMCID: PMC4843970
PMID: 24463520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):124-128. doi: 10.1038/nature12931. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

SRA- and SET-domain-containing proteins link RNA polymerase V occupancy to DNA
methylation.

Johnson LM(#)(1), Du J(#)(2), Hale CJ(1), Bischof S(1), Feng S(1)(3), Chodavarapu
RK(1), Zhong X(1), Marson G(2), Pellegrini M(1), Segal DJ(4), Patel DJ(2),
Jacobsen SE(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(2)Structural Biology Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY 10065, USA.
(3)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California at Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(4)Genome Center and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine,
University of California at Davis, Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Nature. 2017 Mar 2;543(7643):136.

RNA-directed DNA methylation in Arabidopsis thaliana depends on the upstream
synthesis of 24-nucleotide small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) by RNA POLYMERASE IV
(Pol IV) and downstream synthesis of non-coding transcripts by Pol V. Pol V
transcripts are thought to interact with siRNAs which then recruit DOMAINS
REARRANGED METHYLTRANSFERASE 2 (DRM2) to methylate DNA. The SU(VAR)3-9 homologues
SUVH2 and SUVH9 act in this downstream step but the mechanism of their action is 
unknown. Here we show that genome-wide Pol V association with chromatin
redundantly requires SUVH2 and SUVH9. Although SUVH2 and SUVH9 resemble histone
methyltransferases, a crystal structure reveals that SUVH9 lacks a
peptide-substrate binding cleft and lacks a properly formed S-adenosyl methionine
(SAM)-binding pocket necessary for normal catalysis, consistent with a lack of
methyltransferase activity for these proteins. SUVH2 and SUVH9 both contain SRA
(SET- and RING-ASSOCIATED) domains capable of binding methylated DNA, suggesting 
that they function to recruit Pol V through DNA methylation. Consistent with this
model, mutation of DNA METHYLTRANSFERASE 1 (MET1) causes loss of DNA methylation,
a nearly complete loss of Pol V at its normal locations, and redistribution of
Pol V to sites that become hypermethylated. Furthermore, tethering SUVH9
[corrected] with a zinc finger to an unmethylated site is sufficient to recruit
Pol V and establish DNA methylation and gene silencing. These results indicate
that Pol V is recruited to DNA methylation through the methyl-DNA binding SUVH2
and SUVH9 proteins, and our mechanistic findings suggest a means for selectively 
targeting regions of plant genomes for epigenetic silencing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12931 
PMCID: PMC3963826
PMID: 24463519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):114-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12947. Epub 2014 Jan 26.

Sulphoglycolysis in Escherichia coli K-12 closes a gap in the biogeochemical
sulphur cycle.

Denger K(1), Weiss M(2), Felux AK(2), Schneider A(3), Mayer C(3), Spiteller D(1),
Huhn T(4), Cook AM(1), Schleheck D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Konstanz, D-78457 Konstanz, Germany.
(2)Konstanz Research School Chemical Biology, University of Konstanz, D-78457
Konstanz, Germany.
(3)Interfaculty Institute of Microbiology and Infection Medicine, University of
Tübingen, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Konstanz, D-78457 Konstanz, Germany.

Sulphoquinovose (SQ, 6-deoxy-6-sulphoglucose) has been known for 50 years as the 
polar headgroup of the plant sulpholipid in the photosynthetic membranes of all
higher plants, mosses, ferns, algae and most photosynthetic bacteria. It is also 
found in some non-photosynthetic bacteria, and SQ is part of the surface layer of
some Archaea. The estimated annual production of SQ is 10,000,000,000 tonnes (10 
petagrams), thus it comprises a major portion of the organo-sulphur in nature,
where SQ is degraded by bacteria. However, despite evidence for at least three
different degradative pathways in bacteria, no enzymic reaction or gene in any
pathway has been defined, although a sulphoglycolytic pathway has been proposed. 
Here we show that Escherichia coli K-12, the most widely studied prokaryotic
model organism, performs sulphoglycolysis, in addition to standard glycolysis. SQ
is catabolised through four newly discovered reactions that we established using 
purified, heterologously expressed enzymes: SQ isomerase,
6-deoxy-6-sulphofructose (SF) kinase, 6-deoxy-6-sulphofructose-1-phosphate (SFP) 
aldolase, and 3-sulpholactaldehyde (SLA) reductase. The enzymes are encoded in a 
ten-gene cluster, which probably also encodes regulation, transport and
degradation of the whole sulpholipid; the gene cluster is present in almost all
(>91%) available E. coli genomes, and is widespread in Enterobacteriaceae. The
pathway yields dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP), which powers energy
conservation and growth of E. coli, and the sulphonate product
2,3-dihydroxypropane-1-sulphonate (DHPS), which is excreted. DHPS is mineralized 
by other bacteria, thus closing the sulphur cycle within a bacterial community.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12947 
PMID: 24463506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):90-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12914. Epub 2014 Jan 15.

Rate of tree carbon accumulation increases continuously with tree size.

Stephenson NL(1), Das AJ(1), Condit R(2), Russo SE(3), Baker PJ(4), Beckman
NG(5), Coomes DA(6), Lines ER(7), Morris WK(8), Rüger N(9), Alvarez E(10), Blundo
C(11), Bunyavejchewin S(12), Chuyong G(13), Davies SJ(14), Duque A(15), Ewango
CN(16), Flores O(17), Franklin JF(18), Grau HR(11), Hao Z(19), Harmon ME(20),
Hubbell SP(21), Kenfack D(14), Lin Y(22), Makana JR(16), Malizia A(11), Malizia
LR(23), Pabst RJ(20), Pongpattananurak N(24), Su SH(25), Sun IF(26), Tan S(27),
Thomas D(28), van Mantgem PJ(29), Wang X(19), Wiser SK(30), Zavala MA(31).

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Western Ecological Research Center, Three Rivers,
California 93271, USA.
(2)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa, Republic
of Panama.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska
68588, USA.
(4)Department of Forest and Ecosystem Science, University of Melbourne, Victoria 
3121, Australia.
(5)1] School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska
68588, USA [2] Mathematical Biosciences Institute, Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA (N.G.B.); German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity
Research (iDiv), Halle-Jena-Leipzig, 04103 Leipzig, Germany (N.R.).
(6)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EA, UK.
(7)Department of Geography, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(8)School of Botany, University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Australia.
(9)1] Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa,
Republic of Panama [2] Spezielle Botanik und Funktionelle Biodiversität,
Universität Leipzig, 04103 Leipzig, Germany [3] Mathematical Biosciences
Institute, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA (N.G.B.); German
Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv), Halle-Jena-Leipzig, 04103
Leipzig, Germany (N.R.).
(10)Jardín Botánico de Medellín, Calle 73, No. 51D-14, Medellín, Colombia.
(11)Instituto de Ecología Regional, Universidad Nacional de Tucumán, 4107 Yerba
Buena, Tucumán, Argentina.
(12)Research Office, Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant
Conservation, Bangkok 10900, Thailand.
(13)Department of Botany and Plant Physiology, Buea, Southwest Province,
Cameroon.
(14)Smithsonian Institution Global Earth Observatory-Center for Tropical Forest
Science, Smithsonian Institution, PO Box 37012, Washington, DC 20013, USA.
(15)Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Departamento de Ciencias Forestales,
Medellín, Colombia.
(16)Wildlife Conservation Society, Kinshasa/Gombe, Democratic Republic of the
Congo.
(17)Unité Mixte de Recherche-Peuplements Végétaux et Bioagresseurs en Milieu
Tropical, Université de la Réunion/CIRAD, 97410 Saint Pierre, France.
(18)School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(19)State Key Laboratory of Forest and Soil Ecology, Institute of Applied
Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang 110164, China.
(20)Department of Forest Ecosystems and Society, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.
(21)1] Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa,
Republic of Panama [2] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(22)Department of Life Science, Tunghai University, Taichung City 40704, Taiwan.
(23)Facultad de Ciencias Agrarias, Universidad Nacional de Jujuy, 4600 San
Salvador de Jujuy, Argentina.
(24)Faculty of Forestry, Kasetsart University, ChatuChak Bangkok 10900, Thailand.
(25)Taiwan Forestry Research Institute, Taipei 10066, Taiwan.
(26)Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Studies, National Dong Hwa 
University, Hualien 97401, Taiwan.
(27)Sarawak Forestry Department, Kuching, Sarawak 93660, Malaysia.
(28)Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University, Corvallis,
Oregon 97331, USA.
(29)US Geological Survey, Western Ecological Research Center, Arcata, California 
95521, USA.
(30)Landcare Research, PO Box 40, Lincoln 7640, New Zealand.
(31)Forest Ecology and Restoration Group, Department of Life Sciences, University
of Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares, 28805 Madrid, Spain.

Forests are major components of the global carbon cycle, providing substantial
feedback to atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations. Our ability to understand 
and predict changes in the forest carbon cycle--particularly net primary
productivity and carbon storage--increasingly relies on models that represent
biological processes across several scales of biological organization, from tree 
leaves to forest stands. Yet, despite advances in our understanding of
productivity at the scales of leaves and stands, no consensus exists about the
nature of productivity at the scale of the individual tree, in part because we
lack a broad empirical assessment of whether rates of absolute tree mass growth
(and thus carbon accumulation) decrease, remain constant, or increase as trees
increase in size and age. Here we present a global analysis of 403 tropical and
temperate tree species, showing that for most species mass growth rate increases 
continuously with tree size. Thus, large, old trees do not act simply as
senescent carbon reservoirs but actively fix large amounts of carbon compared to 
smaller trees; at the extreme, a single big tree can add the same amount of
carbon to the forest within a year as is contained in an entire mid-sized tree.
The apparent paradoxes of individual tree growth increasing with tree size
despite declining leaf-level and stand-level productivity can be explained,
respectively, by increases in a tree's total leaf area that outpace declines in
productivity per unit of leaf area and, among other factors, age-related
reductions in population density. Our results resolve conflicting assumptions
about the nature of tree growth, inform efforts to undertand and model forest
carbon dynamics, and have additional implications for theories of resource
allocation and plant senescence.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12914 
PMID: 24429523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):94-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12935. Epub 2014 Jan 15.

Sensory-motor transformations for speech occur bilaterally.

Cogan GB(1), Thesen T(2), Carlson C(3), Doyle W(4), Devinsky O(5), Pesaran B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.
(3)1] Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA [2] Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53226,
USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA.
(5)1] Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10016, USA [2] Department of Neurosurgery, New York University School of
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Historically, the study of speech processing has emphasized a strong link between
auditory perceptual input and motor production output. A kind of 'parity' is
essential, as both perception- and production-based representations must form a
unified interface to facilitate access to higher-order language processes such as
syntax and semantics, believed to be computed in the dominant, typically left
hemisphere. Although various theories have been proposed to unite perception and 
production, the underlying neural mechanisms are unclear. Early models of speech 
and language processing proposed that perceptual processing occurred in the left 
posterior superior temporal gyrus (Wernicke's area) and motor production
processes occurred in the left inferior frontal gyrus (Broca's area). Sensory
activity was proposed to link to production activity through connecting fibre
tracts, forming the left lateralized speech sensory-motor system. Although recent
evidence indicates that speech perception occurs bilaterally, prevailing models
maintain that the speech sensory-motor system is left lateralized and facilitates
the transformation from sensory-based auditory representations to motor-based
production representations. However, evidence for the lateralized computation of 
sensory-motor speech transformations is indirect and primarily comes from stroke 
patients that have speech repetition deficits (conduction aphasia) and studies
using covert speech and haemodynamic functional imaging. Whether the speech
sensory-motor system is lateralized, like higher-order language processes, or
bilateral, like speech perception, is controversial. Here we use direct neural
recordings in subjects performing sensory-motor tasks involving overt speech
production to show that sensory-motor transformations occur bilaterally. We
demonstrate that electrodes over bilateral inferior frontal, inferior parietal,
superior temporal, premotor and somatosensory cortices exhibit robust
sensory-motor neural responses during both perception and production in an overt 
word-repetition task. Using a non-word transformation task, we show that
bilateral sensory-motor responses can perform transformations between
speech-perception- and speech-production-based representations. These results
establish a bilateral sublexical speech sensory-motor system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12935 
PMCID: PMC4000028
PMID: 24429520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):99-103. doi: 10.1038/nature12923. Epub 2014 Jan 12.

Cell-autonomous correction of ring chromosomes in human induced pluripotent stem 
cells.

Bershteyn M(1), Hayashi Y(2), Desachy G(3), Hsiao EC(4), Sami S(5), Tsang KM(3), 
Weiss LA(3), Kriegstein AR(6), Yamanaka S(7), Wynshaw-Boris A(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Human Genetics and Department of Pediatrics, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Eli and Edythe Broad Center 
of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94143, USA [3].
(2)1] Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California,
94158, USA [2] Roddenberry Center for Stem Cell Biology and Medicine at
Gladstone, San Francisco, California 94158, USA [3].
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Institute for Human Genetics, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(4)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism and Institute for Human Genetics,
Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, California
94143, USA.
(5)1] Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California,
94158, USA [2] Roddenberry Center for Stem Cell Biology and Medicine at
Gladstone, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(6)Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(7)1] Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California,
94158, USA [2] Roddenberry Center for Stem Cell Biology and Medicine at
Gladstone, San Francisco, California 94158, USA [3] Department of Anatomy,
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [4]
Department of Reprogramming Science, Center for iPS Cell Research and
Application, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(8)1] Institute for Human Genetics and Department of Pediatrics, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA [2] Department of Genetics and
Genome Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Mar;15(3):146.

Ring chromosomes are structural aberrations commonly associated with birth
defects, mental disabilities and growth retardation. Rings form after fusion of
the long and short arms of a chromosome, and are sometimes associated with large 
terminal deletions. Owing to the severity of these large aberrations that can
affect multiple contiguous genes, no possible therapeutic strategies for ring
chromosome disorders have been proposed. During cell division, ring chromosomes
can exhibit unstable behaviour leading to continuous production of aneuploid
progeny with low viability and high cellular death rate. The overall consequences
of this chromosomal instability have been largely unexplored in experimental
model systems. Here we generated human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs)
from patient fibroblasts containing ring chromosomes with large deletions and
found that reprogrammed cells lost the abnormal chromosome and duplicated the
wild-type homologue through the compensatory uniparental disomy (UPD) mechanism. 
The karyotypically normal iPSCs with isodisomy for the corrected chromosome
outgrew co-existing aneuploid populations, enabling rapid and efficient isolation
of patient-derived iPSCs devoid of the original chromosomal aberration. Our
results suggest a fundamentally different function for cellular reprogramming as 
a means of 'chromosome therapy' to reverse combined loss-of-function across many 
genes in cells with large-scale aberrations involving ring structures. In
addition, our work provides an experimentally tractable human cellular system for
studying mechanisms of chromosomal number control, which is of critical relevance
to human development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12923 
PMCID: PMC4030630
PMID: 24413397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):E4-6. doi: 10.1038/nature13024.

Is SIRT2 required for necroptosis?

Newton K(1), Hildebrand JM(2), Shen Z(3), Rodriguez D(4), Alvarez-Diaz S(2),
Petersen S(1), Shah S(5), Dugger DL(1), Huang C(6), Auwerx J(7), Vandenabeele
P(8), Green DR(4), Ashkenazi A(1), Dixit VM(1), Kaiser WJ(6), Strasser A(2),
Degterev A(5), Silke J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(2)1] The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Parkville,
Victoria 3052, Australia [2] Department of Medical Biology, University of
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3050, Australia.
(3)National Institute of Biological Sciences, Zhongguancun Life Science Park,
Beijing 102206, China.
(4)Department of Immunology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts 02111,
USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(7)Laboratory of Integrative and Systems Physiology, EPFL, CH-1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland.
(8)1] Molecular Signaling and Cell Death Unit, Inflammation Research Center, VIB,
9052 Gent, Belgium [2] Department of Biomedical Molecular Biology, Ghent
University, 9052 Gent, Belgium [3] Methusalem BOF09/01M00709, Ghent University,
9052 Gent, Belgium.

Comment on
    Nature. 2012 Dec 13;492(7428):199-204.

Sirtuins can promote deacetylation of a wide range of substrates in diverse
cellular compartments and regulate many cellular processes¹,². Recently Narayan
et al., reported that SIRT2 was required for necroptosis based on their findings 
that SIRT2 inhibition, knock-down or knock-out prevented necroptosis. We sought
to confirm and explore the role of SIRT2 in necroptosis and tested four different
sources of the SIRT2 inhibitor AGK2, three independent siRNAs against SIRT2, and 
cells from two independently generated Sirt2−/− mouse strains, however we were
unable to show that inhibiting or depleting SIRT2 protected cells from
necroptosis. Furthermore, Sirt2−/− mice succumbed to TNF induced Systemic
Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) more rapidly than wild type mice while
Ripk3−/− mice were resistant. Our results therefore question the importance of
SIRT2 in the necroptosis cell death pathway.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13024 
PMCID: PMC4005920
PMID: 24572428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):476-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13032.

A large source of low-volatility secondary organic aerosol.

Ehn M(1), Thornton JA(2), Kleist E(3), Sipilä M(4), Junninen H(4), Pullinen I(5),
Springer M(5), Rubach F(5), Tillmann R(5), Lee B(6), Lopez-Hilfiker F(6), Andres 
S(5), Acir IH(5), Rissanen M(4), Jokinen T(7), Schobesberger S(4), Kangasluoma
J(4), Kontkanen J(4), Nieminen T(8), Kurtén T(9), Nielsen LB(10), Jørgensen
S(10), Kjaergaard HG(10), Canagaratna M(11), Maso MD(12), Berndt T(13), Petäjä
T(4), Wahner A(5), Kerminen VM(4), Kulmala M(4), Worsnop DR(14), Wildt J(3),
Mentel TF(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Energy and Climate Research (IEK-8), Forschungszentrum
Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany [2] Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014
University of Helsinki, Finland.
(2)1] Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland [2]
Department of Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(3)Institute of Bio- and Geosciences (IBG-2), Forschungszentrum Jülich, 52425
Jülich, Germany.
(4)Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Institute for Energy and Climate Research (IEK-8), Forschungszentrum Jülich,
52425 Jülich, Germany.
(6)Department of Atmospheric Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.
(7)1] Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland [2]
Institute for Tropospheric Research (TROPOS), 04318 Leipzig, Germany.
(8)1] Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland [2]
Helsinki Institute of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland.
(9)Department of Chemistry, PO Box 55, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland.
(10)Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 5, 2100
Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
(11)Aerodyne Research, Inc., 45 Manning Road, Billerica, Massachusetts 01821,
USA.
(12)Department of Physics, Tampere University of Technology, PO Box 692, 33101
Tampere, Finland.
(13)Institute for Tropospheric Research (TROPOS), 04318 Leipzig, Germany.
(14)1] Department of Physics, PO Box 64, 00014 University of Helsinki, Finland
[2] Aerodyne Research, Inc., 45 Manning Road, Billerica, Massachusetts 01821,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):442-3.

Forests emit large quantities of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) to the
atmosphere. Their condensable oxidation products can form secondary organic
aerosol, a significant and ubiquitous component of atmospheric aerosol, which is 
known to affect the Earth's radiation balance by scattering solar radiation and
by acting as cloud condensation nuclei. The quantitative assessment of such
climate effects remains hampered by a number of factors, including an incomplete 
understanding of how biogenic VOCs contribute to the formation of atmospheric
secondary organic aerosol. The growth of newly formed particles from sizes of
less than three nanometres up to the sizes of cloud condensation nuclei (about
one hundred nanometres) in many continental ecosystems requires abundant,
essentially non-volatile organic vapours, but the sources and compositions of
such vapours remain unknown. Here we investigate the oxidation of VOCs, in
particular the terpene α-pinene, under atmospherically relevant conditions in
chamber experiments. We find that a direct pathway leads from several biogenic
VOCs, such as monoterpenes, to the formation of large amounts of extremely
low-volatility vapours. These vapours form at significant mass yield in the gas
phase and condense irreversibly onto aerosol surfaces to produce secondary
organic aerosol, helping to explain the discrepancy between the observed
atmospheric burden of secondary organic aerosol and that reported by many model
studies. We further demonstrate how these low-volatility vapours can enhance, or 
even dominate, the formation and growth of aerosol particles over forested
regions, providing a missing link between biogenic VOCs and their conversion to
aerosol particles. Our findings could help to improve assessments of
biosphere-aerosol-climate feedback mechanisms, and the air quality and climate
effects of biogenic emissions generally.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13032 
PMID: 24572423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):471-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12994.

Quantum droplets of electrons and holes.

Almand-Hunter AE(1), Li H(2), Cundiff ST(1), Mootz M(3), Kira M(3), Koch SW(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] JILA, University of Colorado and National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA [2] Department of Physics,
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0390, USA.
(2)JILA, University of Colorado and National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Philipps-University Marburg, Renthof 5, 35032 Marburg, 
Germany.

Interacting many-body systems are characterized by stable configurations of
objects--ranging from elementary particles to cosmological formations--that also 
act as building blocks for more complicated structures. It is often possible to
incorporate interactions in theoretical treatments of crystalline solids by
introducing suitable quasiparticles that have an effective mass, spin or charge
which in turn affects the material's conductivity, optical response or phase
transitions. Additional quasiparticle interactions may also create strongly
correlated configurations yielding new macroscopic phenomena, such as the
emergence of a Mott insulator, superconductivity or the pseudogap phase of
high-temperature superconductors. In semiconductors, a conduction-band electron
attracts a valence-band hole (electronic vacancy) to create a bound pair, known
as an exciton, which is yet another quasiparticle. Two excitons may also bind
together to give molecules, often referred to as biexcitons, and even
polyexcitons may exist. In indirect-gap semiconductors such as germanium or
silicon, a thermodynamic phase transition may produce electron-hole droplets
whose diameter can approach the micrometre range. In direct-gap semiconductors
such as gallium arsenide, the exciton lifetime is too short for such a
thermodynamic process. Instead, different quasiparticle configurations are
stabilized dominantly by many-body interactions, not by thermalization. The
resulting non-equilibrium quantum kinetics is so complicated that stable
aggregates containing three or more Coulomb-correlated electron-hole pairs remain
mostly unexplored. Here we study such complex aggregates and identify a new
stable configuration of charged particles that we call a quantum droplet. This
configuration exists in a plasma and exhibits quantization owing to its small
size. It is charge neutral and contains a small number of particles with a
pair-correlation function that is characteristic of a liquid. We present
experimental and theoretical evidence for the existence of quantum droplets in an
electron-hole plasma created in a gallium arsenide quantum well by ultrashort
optical pulses.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12994 
PMID: 24572422 


799. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):437-8. doi: 10.1038/506437a.

Applied physics: Optical trapping for space mirrors.

McGloin D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Physics, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 4HN, UK.

Comment on
    Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 17;112(2):023902.

Might it be possible to create mirrors for space telescopes, using nothing but
microscopic particles held in place by light? A study that exploits a technique
called optical binding provides a step towards this goal.

DOI: 10.1038/506437a 
PMID: 24572418 


800. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):467-70. doi: 10.1038/nature13026. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

High-precision measurement of the atomic mass of the electron.

Sturm S(1), Köhler F(2), Zatorski J(1), Wagner A(1), Harman Z(3), Werth G(4),
Quint W(5), Keitel CH(1), Blaum K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(2)1] Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] GSI Helmholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung, Planckstraße 1, 64291 
Darmstadt, Germany.
(3)1] Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Saupfercheckweg 1, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] ExtreMe Matter Institute EMMI, Planckstraße 1, 64291 Darmstadt,
Germany.
(4)Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität, Staudingerweg 7, 55128
Mainz, Germany.
(5)GSI Helmholtzzentrum für Schwerionenforschung, Planckstraße 1, 64291
Darmstadt, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):440-1.

The quest for the value of the electron's atomic mass has been the subject of
continuing efforts over the past few decades. Among the seemingly fundamental
constants that parameterize the Standard Model of physics and which are thus
responsible for its predictive power, the electron mass me is prominent, being
responsible for the structure and properties of atoms and molecules. It is
closely linked to other fundamental constants, such as the Rydberg constant R∞
and the fine-structure constant α (ref. 6). However, the low mass of the electron
considerably complicates its precise determination. Here we combine a very
precise measurement of the magnetic moment of a single electron bound to a carbon
nucleus with a state-of-the-art calculation in the framework of bound-state
quantum electrodynamics. The precision of the resulting value for the atomic mass
of the electron surpasses the current literature value of the Committee on Data
for Science and Technology (CODATA) by a factor of 13. This result lays the
foundation for future fundamental physics experiments and precision tests of the 
Standard Model.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13026 
PMID: 24553144 


801. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):445-50. doi: 10.1038/nature13108. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

Epigenomic alterations define lethal CIMP-positive ependymomas of infancy.

Mack SC(1), Witt H(2), Piro RM(3), Gu L(4), Zuyderduyn S(5), Stütz AM(6), Wang
X(7), Gallo M(8), Garzia L(8), Zayne K(8), Zhang X(9), Ramaswamy V(7), Jäger
N(4), Jones DT(10), Sill M(11), Pugh TJ(12), Ryzhova M(10), Wani KM(13), Shih
DJ(7), Head R(8), Remke M(7), Bailey SD(14), Zichner T(6), Faria CC(8), Barszczyk
M(7), Stark S(10), Seker-Cin H(10), Hutter S(10), Johann P(10), Bender S(10),
Hovestadt V(3), Tzaridis T(10), Dubuc AM(7), Northcott PA(10), Peacock J(7),
Bertrand KC(7), Agnihotri S(8), Cavalli FM(8), Clarke I(8), Nethery-Brokx K(8),
Creasy CL(15), Verma SK(15), Koster J(16), Wu X(8), Yao Y(7), Milde T(17),
Sin-Chan P(8), Zuccaro J(8), Lau L(8), Pereira S(8), Castelo-Branco P(8), Hirst
M(18), Marra MA(19), Roberts SS(20), Fults D(21), Massimi L(22), Cho YJ(23), Van 
Meter T(24), Grajkowska W(25), Lach B(26), Kulozik AE(27), von Deimling A(28),
Witt O(17), Scherer SW(8), Fan X(29), Muraszko KM(30), Kool M(10), Pomeroy
SL(12), Gupta N(31), Phillips J(32), Huang A(33), Tabori U(33), Hawkins C(7),
Malkin D(34), Kongkham PN(35), Weiss WA(32), Jabado N(36), Rutka JT(35), Bouffet 
E(37), Korbel JO(38), Lupien M(39), Aldape KD(13), Bader GD(5), Eils R(4),
Lichter P(3), Dirks PB(40), Pfister SM(41), Korshunov A(42), Taylor MD(35).

Author information: 
(1)1] Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain
Tumour Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7,
Canada [2] Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [3] Division of Neurosurgery, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [4].
(2)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 
69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and
Immunology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [3] German Cancer
Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [4].
(3)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Division of 
Molecular Genetics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg 69120,
Germany.
(4)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Division of 
Theoretical Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg
69120, Germany.
(5)Department of Molecular Genetics, Banting and Best Department of Medical
Research, The Donnelly Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M4N 1X8,
Canada.
(6)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Genome
Biology, European Molecular Biology, Laboratory Meyerhofstr. 1, Heidelberg 69117,
Germany.
(7)1] Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain
Tumour Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7,
Canada [2] Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(8)Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain
Tumour Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7,
Canada.
(9)Department of Genetics, Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Dartmouth Medical School,
Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756, USA.
(10)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, 
Germany.
(11)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Division of
Bioinformatics, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(12)Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Children's Hospital Boston, 
MIT, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(13)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(14)1] Ontario Cancer Institute, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre-University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada [2] Ontario Institute for Cancer
Research, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada.
(15)Cancer Epigenetics Discovery Performance Unit, GlaxoSmithKline
Pharmaceuticals, Collegeville, Pennsylvania 19426, USA.
(16)Department of Oncogenomics, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam 1105, The
Netherlands.
(17)1] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and Immunology, University of
Heidelberg, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK),
Heidelberg 69120, Germany [3] CCU Pediatric Oncology, German Cancer Research
Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(18)1] Centre for High-Throughput Biology, Department of Microbiology &
Immunology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, V6T 1Z4 British Columbia, 
Canada [2] Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada.
(19)1] Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency,
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1L3, Canada [2] Department of Medical Genetics,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6H 3N1, Canada.
(20)Department of Pediatrics and National Capital Consortium, Uniformed Services 
University, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA.
(21)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, Utah 84132, USA.
(22)Pediatric Neurosurgery, Catholic University Medical School, Gemelli Hospital,
Rome 00168, Italy.
(23)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School
of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(24)Department of Pediatrics, Virginia Commonwealth, Richmond, Virginia
23298-0646, USA.
(25)Department of Pathology, University of Warsaw, Children's Memorial Health
Institute University of Warsaw, Warsaw 04-730, Poland.
(26)Division of Anatomical Pathology, Department of Pathology and Molecular
Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton General Hospital, Hamilton, Ontario L8S
4K1, Canada.
(27)1] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and Immunology, University of
Heidelberg, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK),
Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(28)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] Department 
of Neuropathology Ruprecht-Karls-University Heidelberg, Institute of Pathology,
Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(29)1] University of Michigan Cell and Developmental Biology, Ann Arbor, Michigan
48109-2200, USA [2] Department of Neurosurgery, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(30)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor,
Michigan 48109, USA.
(31)Department of Neurosurgery, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143-0112, USA.
(32)Departments of Neurology, Pediatrics, and Neurosurgery, University of
California, San Francisco, The Helen Diller Family Cancer Research Building, San 
Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(33)1] Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain
Tumour Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7,
Canada [2] Department of Neuro-oncology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.
(34)Department of Haematology and Oncology, The Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.
(35)1] Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain
Tumour Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7,
Canada [2] Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [3] Division of Neurosurgery, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(36)Departments of Pediatrics and Human Genetics, McGill University and the
McGill University Health Center Research Institute, Montreal, Quebec H3Z 2Z3,
Canada.
(37)Department of Neuro-oncology, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.
(38)Genome Biology, European Molecular Biology, Laboratory Meyerhofstr. 1,
Heidelberg 69117, Germany.
(39)1] Ontario Cancer Institute, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre-University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada [2] Ontario Institute for Cancer
Research, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7, Canada [3] Department of Medical Biophysics, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada.
(40)1] Developmental & Stem Cell Biology Program, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain
Tumour Research Centre, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario M5G 1L7,
Canada [2] Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [3] Division of Neurosurgery, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada [4] Department of Molecular Genetics, University
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(41)1] Division of Pediatric Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
69120 Heidelberg, Germany [2] Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and
Immunology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg 69120, Germany [3] German Cancer
Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany.
(42)1] German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg 69120, Germany [2] University 
of Michigan Cell and Developmental Biology, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2200, USA
[3] CCU Neuropathology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg 69120,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):438-9.

Ependymomas are common childhood brain tumours that occur throughout the nervous 
system, but are most common in the paediatric hindbrain. Current standard therapy
comprises surgery and radiation, but not cytotoxic chemotherapy as it does not
further increase survival. Whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing of 47
hindbrain ependymomas reveals an extremely low mutation rate, and zero
significant recurrent somatic single nucleotide variants. Although devoid of
recurrent single nucleotide variants and focal copy number aberrations,
poor-prognosis hindbrain ependymomas exhibit a CpG island methylator phenotype.
Transcriptional silencing driven by CpG methylation converges exclusively on
targets of the Polycomb repressive complex 2 which represses expression of
differentiation genes through trimethylation of H3K27. CpG island methylator
phenotype-positive hindbrain ependymomas are responsive to clinical drugs that
target either DNA or H3K27 methylation both in vitro and in vivo. We conclude
that epigenetic modifiers are the first rational therapeutic candidates for this 
deadly malignancy, which is epigenetically deregulated but genetically bland.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13108 
PMCID: PMC4174313
PMID: 24553142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):451-5. doi: 10.1038/nature13109. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

C11orf95-RELA fusions drive oncogenic NF-κB signalling in ependymoma.

Parker M(1), Mohankumar KM(2), Punchihewa C(3), Weinlich R(4), Dalton JD(5), Li
Y(6), Lee R(7), Tatevossian RG(5), Phoenix TN(8), Thiruvenkatam R(8), White E(8),
Tang B(5), Orisme W(5), Gupta K(7), Rusch M(9), Chen X(9), Li Y(10), Nagahawhatte
P(9), Hedlund E(9), Finkelstein D(9), Wu G(9), Shurtleff S(7), Easton J(5), Boggs
K(11), Yergeau D(11), Vadodaria B(11), Mulder HL(11), Becksfort J, Gupta P(9),
Huether R(12), Ma J(11), Song G(11), Gajjar A(13), Merchant T(14), Boop F(15),
Smith AA(16), Ding L(17), Lu C(18), Ochoa K(17), Zhao D(6), Fulton RS(18), Fulton
LL(17), Mardis ER(19), Wilson RK(19), Downing JR(5), Green DR(20), Zhang J(6),
Ellison DW(5), Gilbertson RJ(21).

Author information: 
(1)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Department of
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA [2].
(4)1] Department of Immunology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA [2].
(5)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Department of Pathology,
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(6)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Department of
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(8)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(9)Department of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, St. Jude Children's
Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(10)1] Department of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, St. Jude
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Structural
Biology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(11)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(12)Structural Biology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee
38105, USA.
(13)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Department of Oncology, 
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(14)Department of Radiological Sciences, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital,
Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.
(15)Department of Surgery, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(16)MD Anderson Cancer Center Orlando, Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, 92 West
Miller MP 318, Orlando, Florida 32806, USA.
(17)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] The Genome Institute,
Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri 63108,
USA [3] Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine in St
Louis, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(18)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] The Genome Institute,
Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri 63108,
USA.
(19)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] The Genome Institute,
Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri 63108,
USA [3] Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine in St
Louis, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA [4] Siteman Cancer Center, Washington
University School of Medicine in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.
(20)Department of Immunology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.
(21)1] St. Jude Children's Research Hospital - Washington University Pediatric
Cancer Genome Project, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA [2] Department of
Developmental Neurobiology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee 38105, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):554. Becksford, Jared [corrected to Becksfort,
Jared].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):438-9.

Members of the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) family of transcriptional regulators are
central mediators of the cellular inflammatory response. Although constitutive
NF-κB signalling is present in most human tumours, mutations in pathway members
are rare, complicating efforts to understand and block aberrant NF-κB activity in
cancer. Here we show that more than two-thirds of supratentorial ependymomas
contain oncogenic fusions between RELA, the principal effector of canonical NF-κB
signalling, and an uncharacterized gene, C11orf95. In each case, C11orf95-RELA
fusions resulted from chromothripsis involving chromosome 11q13.1. C11orf95-RELA 
fusion proteins translocated spontaneously to the nucleus to activate NF-κB
target genes, and rapidly transformed neural stem cells--the cell of origin of
ependymoma--to form these tumours in mice. Our data identify a highly recurrent
genetic alteration of RELA in human cancer, and the C11orf95-RELA fusion protein 
as a potential therapeutic target in supratentorial ependymoma.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13109 
PMCID: PMC4050669
PMID: 24553141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):456-62. doi: 10.1038/nature13044. Epub 2014 Feb 19.

A Crohn's disease variant in Atg16l1 enhances its degradation by caspase 3.

Murthy A(1), Li Y(1), Peng I(1), Reichelt M(2), Katakam AK(2), Noubade R(1),
Roose-Girma M(3), DeVoss J(1), Diehl L(2), Graham RR(4), van Lookeren Campagne
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(4)ITGR Human Genetics, Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco,
California 94080, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):441-2.
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Apr;11(4):202.
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(18):2803-4.

Crohn's disease is a debilitating inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that can
involve the entire digestive tract. A single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
encoding a missense variant in the autophagy gene ATG16L1 (rs2241880, Thr300Ala) 
is strongly associated with the incidence of Crohn's disease. Numerous studies
have demonstrated the effect of ATG16L1 deletion or deficiency; however, the
molecular consequences of the Thr300Ala (T300A) variant remains unknown. Here we 
show that amino acids 296-299 constitute a caspase cleavage motif in ATG16L1 and 
that the T300A variant (T316A in mice) significantly increases ATG16L1
sensitization to caspase-3-mediated processing. We observed that death-receptor
activation or starvation-induced metabolic stress in human and murine macrophages
increased degradation of the T300A or T316A variants of ATG16L1, respectively,
resulting in diminished autophagy. Knock-in mice harbouring the T316A variant
showed defective clearance of the ileal pathogen Yersinia enterocolitica and an
elevated inflammatory cytokine response. In turn, deletion of the
caspase-3-encoding gene, Casp3, or elimination of the caspase cleavage site by
site-directed mutagenesis rescued starvation-induced autophagy and pathogen
clearance, respectively. These findings demonstrate that caspase 3 activation in 
the presence of a common risk allele leads to accelerated degradation of ATG16L1,
placing cellular stress, apoptotic stimuli and impaired autophagy in a unified
pathway that predisposes to Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13044 
PMID: 24553140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):480-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12991. Epub 2014 Feb 16.

Rapid remobilization of magmatic crystals kept in cold storage.

Cooper KM(1), Kent AJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Davis,
One Shields Avenue, Davis, California 95616, USA.
(2)College of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, 104 Ocean Administration,
Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon 97331, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 24;508(7497):554.

The processes involved in the formation and storage of magma within the Earth's
upper crust are of fundamental importance to volcanology. Many volcanic
eruptions, including some of the largest, result from the eruption of components 
stored for tens to hundreds of thousands of years before eruption. Although the
physical conditions of magma storage and remobilization are of paramount
importance for understanding volcanic processes, they remain relatively poorly
known. Eruptions of crystal-rich magma are often suggested to require the
mobilization of magma stored at near-solidus conditions; however, accumulation of
significant eruptible magma volumes has also been argued to require extended
storage of magma at higher temperatures. What has been lacking in this debate is 
clear observational evidence linking the thermal (and therefore physical)
conditions within a magma reservoir to timescales of storage-that is, thermal
histories. Here we present a method of constraining such thermal histories by
combining timescales derived from uranium-series disequilibria, crystal sizes and
trace-element zoning in crystals. At Mount Hood (Oregon, USA), only a small
fraction of the total magma storage duration (at most 12 per cent and probably
much less than 1 per cent) has been spent at temperatures above the critical
crystallinity (40-50 per cent) at which magma is easily mobilized. Partial data
sets for other volcanoes also suggest that similar conditions of magma storage
are widespread and therefore that rapid mobilization of magmas stored at
near-solidus temperatures is common. Magma storage at low temperatures indicates 
that, although thermobarometry calculations based on mineral compositions may
record the conditions of crystallization, they are unlikely to reflect the
conditions of most of the time that the magma is stored. Our results also suggest
that largely liquid magma bodies that can be imaged geophysically will be
ephemeral features and therefore their detection could indicate imminent
eruption.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12991 
PMID: 24531766 


805. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):463-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12990. Epub 2014 Feb 9.

A single low-energy, iron-poor supernova as the source of metals in the star SMSS
J031300.36-670839.3.

Keller SC(1), Bessell MS(1), Frebel A(2), Casey AR(1), Asplund M(1), Jacobson
HR(2), Lind K(3), Norris JE(1), Yong D(1), Heger A(4), Magic Z(5), Da Costa
GS(1), Schmidt BP(1), Tisserand P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Mount Stromlo Observatory,
Cotter Road, Weston, Australian Capital Territory 2611, Australia.
(2)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Kavli
Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.
(3)Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3
0HA, UK.
(4)School of Mathematical Sciences, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(5)1] Research School of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Mount Stromlo Observatory,
Cotter Road, Weston, Australian Capital Territory 2611, Australia [2]
Max-Planck-Institut für Astrophysik, Karl-Schwarzschild-Strasse 1, Garching
85741, Germany.

The element abundance ratios of four low-mass stars with extremely low
metallicities (abundances of elements heavier than helium) indicate that the gas 
out of which the stars formed was enriched in each case by at most a few--and
potentially only one--low-energy supernova. Such supernovae yield large
quantities of light elements such as carbon but very little iron. The dominance
of low-energy supernovae seems surprising, because it had been expected that the 
first stars were extremely massive, and that they disintegrated in
pair-instability explosions that would rapidly enrich galaxies in iron. What has 
remained unclear is the yield of iron from the first supernovae, because hitherto
no star has been unambiguously interpreted as encapsulating the yield of a single
supernova. Here we report the optical spectrum of SMSS J031300.36-670839.3, which
shows no evidence of iron (with an upper limit of 10(-7.1) times solar
abundance). Based on a comparison of its abundance pattern with those of models, 
we conclude that the star was seeded with material from a single supernova with
an original mass about 60 times that of the Sun (and that the supernova left
behind a black hole). Taken together with the four previously mentioned
low-metallicity stars, we conclude that low-energy supernovae were common in the 
early Universe, and that such supernovae yielded light-element enrichment with
insignificant iron. Reduced stellar feedback both chemically and mechanically
from low-energy supernovae would have enabled first-generation stars to form over
an extended period. We speculate that such stars may perhaps have had an
important role in the epoch of cosmic reionization and the chemical evolution of 
early galaxies.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12990 
PMID: 24509711 


806. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):489-93. doi: 10.1038/nature12900. Epub 2014 Jan 19.

Sequential evolution of bacterial morphology by co-option of a developmental
regulator.

Jiang C(1), Brown PJ(2), Ducret A(1), Brun YV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.
(2)1] Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA 
[2] Division of Biological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri
65211, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Jun 2;24(11):R522-4.

What mechanisms underlie the transitions responsible for the diverse shapes
observed in the living world? Although bacteria exhibit a myriad of morphologies,
the mechanisms responsible for the evolution of bacterial cell shape are not
understood. We investigated morphological diversity in a group of bacteria that
synthesize an appendage-like extension of the cell envelope called the stalk. The
location and number of stalks varies among species, as exemplified by three
distinct subcellular positions of stalks within a rod-shaped cell body: polar in 
the genus Caulobacter and subpolar or bilateral in the genus Asticcacaulis. Here 
we show that a developmental regulator of Caulobacter crescentus, SpmX, is
co-opted in the genus Asticcacaulis to specify stalk synthesis either at the
subpolar or bilateral positions. We also show that stepwise evolution of a
specific region of SpmX led to the gain of a new function and localization of
this protein, which drove the sequential transition in stalk positioning. Our
results indicate that changes in protein function, co-option and modularity are
key elements in the evolution of bacterial morphology. Therefore, similar
evolutionary principles of morphological transitions apply to both single-celled 
prokaryotes and multicellular eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12900 
PMCID: PMC4035126
PMID: 24463524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):503-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12902. Epub 2014 Jan 19.

Sessile alveolar macrophages communicate with alveolar epithelium to modulate
immunity.

Westphalen K(1), Gusarova GA(1), Islam MN(1), Subramanian M(2), Cohen TS(3),
Prince AS(3), Bhattacharya J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Lung Biology Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary,
Allergy and Critical Care, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York
10032, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Molecular Medicine, Columbia University
Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New
York 10032, USA.
(4)1] Lung Biology Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary,
Allergy and Critical Care, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York
10032, USA [2] Department of Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York
10032, USA.

The tissue-resident macrophages of barrier organs constitute the first line of
defence against pathogens at the systemic interface with the ambient environment.
In the lung, resident alveolar macrophages (AMs) provide a sentinel function
against inhaled pathogens. Bacterial constituents ligate Toll-like receptors
(TLRs) on AMs, causing AMs to secrete proinflammatory cytokines that activate
alveolar epithelial receptors, leading to recruitment of neutrophils that engulf 
pathogens. Because the AM-induced response could itself cause tissue injury, it
is unclear how AMs modulate the response to prevent injury. Here, using real-time
alveolar imaging in situ, we show that a subset of AMs attached to the alveolar
wall form connexin 43 (Cx43)-containing gap junction channels with the
epithelium. During lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation, the AMs remained
sessile and attached to the alveoli, and they established intercommunication
through synchronized Ca(2+) waves, using the epithelium as the conducting
pathway. The intercommunication was immunosuppressive, involving Ca(2+)-dependent
activation of Akt, because AM-specific knockout of Cx43 enhanced alveolar
neutrophil recruitment and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines in the
bronchoalveolar lavage. A picture emerges of a novel immunomodulatory process in 
which a subset of alveolus-attached AMs intercommunicates immunosuppressive
signals to reduce endotoxin-induced lung inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12902 
PMCID: PMC4117212
PMID: 24463523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):498-502. doi: 10.1038/nature12907. Epub 2014 Jan
19.

A discrete genetic locus confers xyloglucan metabolism in select human gut
Bacteroidetes.

Larsbrink J(1), Rogers TE(2), Hemsworth GR(3), McKee LS(4), Tauzin AS(5), Spadiut
O(4), Klinter S(6), Pudlo NA(7), Urs K(7), Koropatkin NM(7), Creagh AL(8), Haynes
CA(8), Kelly AG(7), Cederholm SN(6), Davies GJ(9), Martens EC(7), Brumer H(10).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Glycoscience, School of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of
Technology (KTH), AlbaNova University Centre, 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden [2].
(2)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA [2].
(3)1] Structural Biology Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, University of York,
York YO10 5DD, UK [2].
(4)1] Division of Glycoscience, School of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of
Technology (KTH), AlbaNova University Centre, 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden [2]
Wallenberg Wood Science Center, Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Teknikringen
56-58, 100 44 Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Michael Smith Laboratories and Department of Chemistry, University of British 
Columbia, 2185 East Mall, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(6)Division of Glycoscience, School of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of
Technology (KTH), AlbaNova University Centre, 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(8)Michael Smith Laboratories and Department of Chemical and Biological
Engineering, University of British Columbia, 2185 East Mall, Vancouver, British
Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(9)Structural Biology Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, University of York,
York YO10 5DD, UK.
(10)1] Division of Glycoscience, School of Biotechnology, Royal Institute of
Technology (KTH), AlbaNova University Centre, 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden [2]
Michael Smith Laboratories and Department of Chemistry, University of British
Columbia, 2185 East Mall, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada.

Comment in
    Trends Biochem Sci. 2014 Apr;39(4):156-8.

A well-balanced human diet includes a significant intake of non-starch
polysaccharides, collectively termed 'dietary fibre', from the cell walls of
diverse fruits and vegetables. Owing to the paucity of alimentary enzymes encoded
by the human genome, our ability to derive energy from dietary fibre depends on
the saccharification and fermentation of complex carbohydrates by the massive
microbial community residing in our distal gut. The xyloglucans (XyGs) are a
ubiquitous family of highly branched plant cell wall polysaccharides whose
mechanism(s) of degradation in the human gut and consequent importance in
nutrition have been unclear. Here we demonstrate that a single, complex gene
locus in Bacteroides ovatus confers XyG catabolism in this common colonic
symbiont. Through targeted gene disruption, biochemical analysis of all predicted
glycoside hydrolases and carbohydrate-binding proteins, and three-dimensional
structural determination of the vanguard endo-xyloglucanase, we reveal the
molecular mechanisms through which XyGs are hydrolysed to component
monosaccharides for further metabolism. We also observe that orthologous XyG
utilization loci (XyGULs) serve as genetic markers of XyG catabolism in
Bacteroidetes, that XyGULs are restricted to a limited number of phylogenetically
diverse strains, and that XyGULs are ubiquitous in surveyed human metagenomes.
Our findings reveal that the metabolism of even highly abundant components of
dietary fibre may be mediated by niche species, which has immediate fundamental
and practical implications for gut symbiont population ecology in the context of 
human diet, nutrition and health.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12907 
PMCID: PMC4282169
PMID: 24463512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):511-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12903. Epub 2014 Jan 12.

Broadly permissive intestinal chromatin underlies lateral inhibition and cell
plasticity.

Kim TH(1), Li F(2), Ferreiro-Neira I(1), Ho LL(1), Luyten A(1), Nalapareddy K(1),
Long H(2), Verzi M(1), Shivdasani RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medical Oncology and Center for Functional Cancer
Epigenetics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2]
Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology and Center for Functional Cancer Epigenetics,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Cells differentiate when transcription factors bind accessible cis-regulatory
elements to establish specific gene expression programs. In differentiating
embryonic stem cells, chromatin at lineage-restricted genes becomes sequentially 
accessible, probably by means of 'pioneer' transcription factor activity, but
tissues may use other strategies in vivo. Lateral inhibition is a pervasive
process in which one cell forces a different identity on its neighbours, and it
is unclear how chromatin in equipotent progenitors undergoing lateral inhibition 
quickly enables distinct, transiently reversible cell fates. Here we report the
chromatin and transcriptional underpinnings of differentiation in mouse small
intestine crypts, where notch signalling mediates lateral inhibition to assign
progenitor cells into absorptive or secretory lineages. Transcript profiles in
isolated LGR5(+) intestinal stem cells and secretory and absorptive progenitors
indicated that each cell population was distinct and the progenitors specified.
Nevertheless, secretory and absorptive progenitors showed comparable levels of
H3K4me2 and H3K27ac histone marks and DNase I hypersensitivity--signifying
accessible, permissive chromatin-at most of the same cis-elements. Enhancers
acting uniquely in progenitors were well demarcated in LGR5(+) intestinal stem
cells, revealing early priming of chromatin for divergent transcriptional
programs, and retained active marks well after lineages were specified. On this
chromatin background, ATOH1, a secretory-specific transcription factor, controls 
lateral inhibition through delta-like notch ligand genes and also drives the
expression of numerous secretory lineage genes. Depletion of ATOH1 from specified
secretory cells converted them into functional enterocytes, indicating prolonged 
responsiveness of marked enhancers to the presence or absence of a key
transcription factor. Thus, lateral inhibition and intestinal crypt lineage
plasticity involve interaction of a lineage-restricted transcription factor with 
broadly permissive chromatin established in multipotent stem cells.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12903 
PMCID: PMC4151315
PMID: 24413398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):494-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12904. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Genetics of single-cell protein abundance variation in large yeast populations.

Albert FW(1), Treusch S(2), Shockley AH(3), Bloom JS(4), Kruglyak L(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Human Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA [2] Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics,
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(2)Lewis Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(3)Synthetic Genomics, 11149 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.
(4)1] Department of Human Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
(5)1] Department of Human Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles,
California 90095, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA [3] Department of Biological
Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Variation among individuals arises in part from differences in DNA sequences, but
the genetic basis for variation in most traits, including common diseases,
remains only partly understood. Many DNA variants influence phenotypes by
altering the expression level of one or several genes. The effects of such
variants can be detected as expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL).
Traditional eQTL mapping requires large-scale genotype and gene expression data
for each individual in the study sample, which limits sample sizes to hundreds of
individuals in both humans and model organisms and reduces statistical power.
Consequently, many eQTL are probably missed, especially those with smaller
effects. Furthermore, most studies use messenger RNA rather than protein
abundance as the measure of gene expression. Studies that have used
mass-spectrometry proteomics reported unexpected differences between eQTL and
protein QTL (pQTL) for the same genes, but these studies have been even more
limited in scope. Here we introduce a powerful method for identifying genetic
loci that influence protein expression in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We 
measure single-cell protein abundance through the use of green fluorescent
protein tags in very large populations of genetically variable cells, and use
pooled sequencing to compare allele frequencies across the genome in thousands of
individuals with high versus low protein abundance. We applied this method to 160
genes and detected many more loci per gene than previous studies. We also
observed closer correspondence between loci that influence protein abundance and 
loci that influence mRNA abundance of a given gene. Most loci that we detected
were clustered in 'hotspots' that influence multiple proteins, and some hotspots 
were found to influence more than half of the proteins that we examined. The
variants that underlie these hotspots have profound effects on the gene
regulatory network and provide insights into genetic variation in cell physiology
between yeast strains.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12904 
PMCID: PMC4285441
PMID: 24402228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):484-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12899. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Skin pigmentation provides evidence of convergent melanism in extinct marine
reptiles.

Lindgren J(1), Sjövall P(2), Carney RM(3), Uvdal P(4), Gren JA(1), Dyke G(5),
Schultz BP(6), Shawkey MD(7), Barnes KR(8), Polcyn MJ(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geology, Lund University, SE-223 62 Lund, Sweden.
(2)SP Technical Research Institute of Sweden, Chemistry, Materials and Surfaces, 
SE-501 15 Borås, Sweden.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University, Providence, 
Rhode Island 02906, USA.
(4)1] MAX-IV laboratory, Lund University, SE-221 00 Lund, Sweden [2] Chemical
Physics, Department of Chemistry, Lund University, SE-221 00 Lund, Sweden.
(5)1] Ocean and Earth Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton SO14 3ZH, 
UK [2] Institute for Life Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton SO14
3ZH, UK.
(6)MUSERUM, Natural History Division, Havnevej 14, 7800 Skive, Denmark.
(7)Integrated Bioscience Program, University of Akron, Akron, Ohio 44325, USA.
(8)Mosasaur Ranch Museum, Lajitas, Texas 79852, USA.
(9)Roy M. Huffington Department of Earth Sciences, Southern Methodist University,
Dallas, Texas 75275, USA.

Comment in
    Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2014 Sep;27(5):684-5.

Throughout the animal kingdom, adaptive colouration serves critical functions
ranging from inconspicuous camouflage to ostentatious sexual display, and can
provide important information about the environment and biology of a particular
organism. The most ubiquitous and abundant pigment, melanin, also has a diverse
range of non-visual roles, including thermoregulation in ectotherms. However,
little is known about the functional evolution of this important biochrome
through deep time, owing to our limited ability to unambiguously identify traces 
of it in the fossil record. Here we present direct chemical evidence of
pigmentation in fossilized skin, from three distantly related marine reptiles: a 
leatherback turtle, a mosasaur and an ichthyosaur. We demonstrate that dark
traces of soft tissue in these fossils are dominated by molecularly preserved
eumelanin, in intimate association with fossilized melanosomes. In addition, we
suggest that contrary to the countershading of many pelagic animals, at least
some ichthyosaurs were uniformly dark-coloured in life. Our analyses expand
current knowledge of pigmentation in fossil integument beyond that of feathers,
allowing for the reconstruction of colour over much greater ranges of extinct
taxa and anatomy. In turn, our results provide evidence of convergent melanism in
three disparate lineages of secondarily aquatic tetrapods. Based on extant marine
analogues, we propose that the benefits of thermoregulation and/or crypsis are
likely to have contributed to this melanisation, with the former having
implications for the ability of each group to exploit cold environments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12899 
PMID: 24402224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):507-10. doi: 10.1038/nature12892. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

A new metabolic cell-wall labelling method reveals peptidoglycan in Chlamydia
trachomatis.

Liechti GW(1), Kuru E(2), Hall E(3), Kalinda A(3), Brun YV(4), VanNieuwenhze
M(3), Maurelli AT(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, F. Edward Hébert School of
Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge
Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799, USA [2].
(2)1] Interdisciplinary Biochemistry Program, Indiana University, Bloomington,
Indiana 47405, USA [2].
(3)Department of Chemistry, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, F. Edward Hébert School of
Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge
Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Feb;12(2):76-7.

Peptidoglycan (PG), an essential structure in the cell walls of the vast majority
of bacteria, is critical for division and maintaining cell shape and hydrostatic 
pressure. Bacteria comprising the Chlamydiales were thought to be one of the few 
exceptions. Chlamydia harbour genes for PG biosynthesis and exhibit
susceptibility to 'anti-PG' antibiotics, yet attempts to detect PG in any
chlamydial species have proven unsuccessful (the 'chlamydial anomaly'). We used a
novel approach to metabolically label chlamydial PG using d-amino acid dipeptide 
probes and click chemistry. Replicating Chlamydia trachomatis were labelled with 
these probes throughout their biphasic developmental life cycle, and the results 
of differential probe incorporation experiments conducted in the presence of
ampicillin are consistent with the presence of chlamydial PG-modifying enzymes.
These findings culminate 50 years of speculation and debate concerning the
chlamydial anomaly and are the strongest evidence so far that chlamydial species 
possess functional PG.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12892 
PMCID: PMC3997218
PMID: 24336210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):364-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12977.

Disease associations between honeybees and bumblebees as a threat to wild
pollinators.

Fürst MA(1), McMahon DP(2), Osborne JL(3), Paxton RJ(4), Brown MJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Royal Holloway University of London, School of Biological Sciences, Bourne 
Building, Egham TW20 0EX, UK [2] IST Austria (Institute of Science and Technology
Austria), 3400 Klosterneuburg, Austria.
(2)Queen's University Belfast, School of Biological Sciences, 97 Lisburn Road,
Belfast BT9 7BL, UK.
(3)1] Rothamsted Research, Department of Agro-Ecology, Harpenden AL5 2JQ, UK [2] 
University of Exeter, Environment & Sustainability Institute, Penryn TR10 9EZ,
UK.
(4)1] Queen's University Belfast, School of Biological Sciences, 97 Lisburn Road,
Belfast BT9 7BL, UK [2] Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, Institute for
Biology/General Zoology, Hoher Weg 8, 06120 Halle (Saale), Germany [3] German
Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv), Halle-Jena-Leipzig,
Deutscher Platz 5e, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Royal Holloway University of London, School of Biological Sciences, Bourne
Building, Egham TW20 0EX, UK.

Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) pose a risk to human welfare, both directly
and indirectly, by affecting managed livestock and wildlife that provide valuable
resources and ecosystem services, such as the pollination of crops. Honeybees
(Apis mellifera), the prevailing managed insect crop pollinator, suffer from a
range of emerging and exotic high-impact pathogens, and population maintenance
requires active management by beekeepers to control them. Wild pollinators such
as bumblebees (Bombus spp.) are in global decline, one cause of which may be
pathogen spillover from managed pollinators like honeybees or commercial colonies
of bumblebees. Here we use a combination of infection experiments and
landscape-scale field data to show that honeybee EIDs are indeed widespread
infectious agents within the pollinator assemblage. The prevalence of deformed
wing virus (DWV) and the exotic parasite Nosema ceranae in honeybees and
bumblebees is linked; as honeybees have higher DWV prevalence, and sympatric
bumblebees and honeybees are infected by the same DWV strains, Apis is the likely
source of at least one major EID in wild pollinators. Lessons learned from
vertebrates highlight the need for increased pathogen control in managed bee
species to maintain wild pollinators, as declines in native pollinators may be
caused by interspecies pathogen transmission originating from managed
pollinators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12977 
PMCID: PMC3985068
PMID: 24553241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):355-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12992.

Prodigious degassing of a billion years of accumulated radiogenic helium at
Yellowstone.

Lowenstern JB(1), Evans WC(1), Bergfeld D(1), Hunt AG(2).

Author information: 
(1)US Geological Survey, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(2)US Geological Survey, Denver, Colorado 80225, USA.

Helium is used as a critical tracer throughout the Earth sciences, where its
relatively simple isotopic systematics is used to trace degassing from the
mantle, to date groundwater and to time the rise of continents. The hydrothermal 
system at Yellowstone National Park is famous for its high helium-3/helium-4
isotope ratio, commonly cited as evidence for a deep mantle source for the
Yellowstone hotspot. However, much of the helium emitted from this region is
actually radiogenic helium-4 produced within the crust by α-decay of uranium and 
thorium. Here we show, by combining gas emission rates with chemistry and
isotopic analyses, that crustal helium-4 emission rates from Yellowstone exceed
(by orders of magnitude) any conceivable rate of generation within the crust. It 
seems that helium has accumulated for (at least) many hundreds of millions of
years in Archaean (more than 2.5 billion years old) cratonic rocks beneath
Yellowstone, only to be liberated over the past two million years by intense
crustal metamorphism induced by the Yellowstone hotspot. Our results demonstrate 
the extremes in variability of crustal helium efflux on geologic timescales and
imply crustal-scale open-system behaviour of helium in tectonically and
magmatically active regions.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12992 
PMID: 24553240 


815. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):339-42. doi: 10.1038/nature12997.

Asymmetries in core-collapse supernovae from maps of radioactive 44Ti in
Cassiopeia A.

Grefenstette BW(1), Harrison FA(1), Boggs SE(2), Reynolds SP(3), Fryer CL(4),
Madsen KK(1), Wik DR(5), Zoglauer A(2), Ellinger CI(6), Alexander DM(7), An H(8),
Barret D(9), Christensen FE(10), Craig WW(11), Forster K(1), Giommi P(12), Hailey
CJ(13), Hornstrup A(10), Kaspi VM(8), Kitaguchi T(14), Koglin JE(15), Mao PH(1), 
Miyasaka H(1), Mori K(13), Perri M(16), Pivovaroff MJ(17), Puccetti S(16), Rana
V(1), Stern D(18), Westergaard NJ(10), Zhang WW(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cahill Center for Astrophysics, 1216 East California Boulevard, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(2)Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.
(3)Physics Department, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina
27695, USA.
(4)CCS-2, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA.
(5)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(6)Department of Physics, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, Texas
76019, USA.
(7)Department of Physics, Durham University, Durham DH1 3LE, UK.
(8)Department of Physics, McGill University, Rutherford Physics Building,
Montreal, Quebec H3A 2T8, Canada.
(9)1] Université de Toulouse, UPS-OMP, IRAP, 9 Avenue du Colonel Roche, BP 44346,
31028 Toulouse Cedex 4, France [2] CNRS, Institut de Recherche en Astrophysique
et Planétologie, 9 Avenue colonel Roche, BP 44346, F-31028 Toulouse Cedex 4,
France.
(10)DTU Space, National Space Institute, Technical University of Denmark,
Elektrovej 327, DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark.
(11)1] Space Sciences Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley, California 
94720, USA [2] Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California
94550, USA.
(12)Agenzia Spaziale Italiana (ASI) Science Data Center, Via del Politecnico snc,
I-00133 Roma, Italy.
(13)Columbia Astrophysics Laboratory, Columbia University, New York, New York
10027, USA.
(14)RIKEN, Nishina Center, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(15)Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA.
(16)1] Agenzia Spaziale Italiana (ASI) Science Data Center, Via del Politecnico
snc, I-00133 Roma, Italy [2] INAF - Osservatorio Astronomico di Roma, via di
Frascati 33, I-00040 Monteporzio, Italy.
(17)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550, USA.
(18)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):298-9.

Asymmetry is required by most numerical simulations of stellar core-collapse
explosions, but the form it takes differs significantly among models. The spatial
distribution of radioactive (44)Ti, synthesized in an exploding star near the
boundary between material falling back onto the collapsing core and that ejected 
into the surrounding medium, directly probes the explosion asymmetries.
Cassiopeia A is a young, nearby, core-collapse remnant from which (44)Ti emission
has previously been detected but not imaged. Asymmetries in the explosion have
been indirectly inferred from a high ratio of observed (44)Ti emission to
estimated (56)Ni emission, from optical light echoes, and from jet-like features 
seen in the X-ray and optical ejecta. Here we report spatial maps and spectral
properties of the (44)Ti in Cassiopeia A. This may explain the unexpected lack of
correlation between the (44)Ti and iron X-ray emission, the latter being visible 
only in shock-heated material. The observed spatial distribution rules out
symmetric explosions even with a high level of convective mixing, as well as
highly asymmetric bipolar explosions resulting from a fast-rotating progenitor.
Instead, these observations provide strong evidence for the development of
low-mode convective instabilities in core-collapse supernovae.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12997 
PMID: 24553239 


816. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):307-15. doi: 10.1038/nature13068.

The rise of oxygen in Earth's early ocean and atmosphere.

Lyons TW(1), Reinhard CT(2), Planavsky NJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside, California 
92521, USA.
(2)1] Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside,
California 92521, USA [2] Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [3] School of
Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
30332, USA.
(3)1] Department of Earth Sciences, University of California, Riverside,
California 92521, USA [2] Department of Geology and Geophysics, Yale University, 
New Haven, Connecticut 06511, USA.

The rapid increase of carbon dioxide concentration in Earth's modern atmosphere
is a matter of major concern. But for the atmosphere of roughly two-and-half
billion years ago, interest centres on a different gas: free oxygen (O2) spawned 
by early biological production. The initial increase of O2 in the atmosphere, its
delayed build-up in the ocean, its increase to near-modern levels in the sea and 
air two billion years later, and its cause-and-effect relationship with life are 
among the most compelling stories in Earth's history.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13068 
PMID: 24553238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):343-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13008. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Fuel gain exceeding unity in an inertially confined fusion implosion.

Hurricane OA(1), Callahan DA(1), Casey DT(1), Celliers PM(1), Cerjan C(1), Dewald
EL(1), Dittrich TR(1), Döppner T(1), Hinkel DE(1), Berzak Hopkins LF(1), Kline
JL(2), Le Pape S(1), Ma T(1), MacPhee AG(1), Milovich JL(1), Pak A(1), Park
HS(1), Patel PK(1), Remington BA(1), Salmonson JD(1), Springer PT(1), Tommasini
R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, PO Box 808, Livermore, California
94551, USA.
(2)Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 19;510(7505):432.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):302-3.

Ignition is needed to make fusion energy a viable alternative energy source, but 
has yet to be achieved. A key step on the way to ignition is to have the energy
generated through fusion reactions in an inertially confined fusion plasma exceed
the amount of energy deposited into the deuterium-tritium fusion fuel and hotspot
during the implosion process, resulting in a fuel gain greater than unity. Here
we report the achievement of fusion fuel gains exceeding unity on the US National
Ignition Facility using a 'high-foot' implosion method, which is a manipulation
of the laser pulse shape in a way that reduces instability in the implosion.
These experiments show an order-of-magnitude improvement in yield performance
over past deuterium-tritium implosion experiments. We also see a significant
contribution to the yield from α-particle self-heating and evidence for the
'bootstrapping' required to accelerate the deuterium-tritium fusion burn to
eventually 'run away' and ignite.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13008 
PMID: 24522535 


818. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):316-21. doi: 10.1038/nature13013. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Geriatric muscle stem cells switch reversible quiescence into senescence.

Sousa-Victor P(1), Gutarra S(2), García-Prat L(2), Rodriguez-Ubreva J(3), Ortet
L(4), Ruiz-Bonilla V(4), Jardí M(4), Ballestar E(3), González S(5), Serrano
AL(4), Perdiguero E(4), Muñoz-Cánoves P(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Cell Biology Group, Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu 
Fabra University, CIBER on Neurodegenerative diseases, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain
[2] Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, California 94945, USA.
(2)1] Cell Biology Group, Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu 
Fabra University, CIBER on Neurodegenerative diseases, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain
[2].
(3)Chromatin and Disease Group, Cancer Epigenetics and Biology Programme,
Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, E-08907
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Cell Biology Group, Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu
Fabra University, CIBER on Neurodegenerative diseases, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Stem Cell Aging Group, Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares,
E-28029 Madrid, Spain.
(6)1] Cell Biology Group, Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu 
Fabra University, CIBER on Neurodegenerative diseases, E-08003 Barcelona, Spain
[2] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats, E-08010 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):304-5.

Regeneration of skeletal muscle depends on a population of adult stem cells
(satellite cells) that remain quiescent throughout life. Satellite cell
regenerative functions decline with ageing. Here we report that geriatric
satellite cells are incapable of maintaining their normal quiescent state in
muscle homeostatic conditions, and that this irreversibly affects their intrinsic
regenerative and self-renewal capacities. In geriatric mice, resting satellite
cells lose reversible quiescence by switching to an irreversible pre-senescence
state, caused by derepression of p16(INK4a) (also called Cdkn2a). On injury,
these cells fail to activate and expand, undergoing accelerated entry into a full
senescence state (geroconversion), even in a youthful environment. p16(INK4a)
silencing in geriatric satellite cells restores quiescence and muscle
regenerative functions. Our results demonstrate that maintenance of quiescence in
adult life depends on the active repression of senescence pathways. As p16(INK4a)
is dysregulated in human geriatric satellite cells, these findings provide the
basis for stem-cell rejuvenation in sarcopenic muscles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13013 
PMID: 24522534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):334-8. doi: 10.1038/nature13039. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Protein-guided RNA dynamics during early ribosome assembly.

Kim H(1), Abeysirigunawarden SC(2), Chen K(3), Mayerle M(4), Ragunathan K(5),
Luthey-Schulten Z(6), Ha T(7), Woodson SA(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, Center for the Physics of Living Cells and Institute
for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois
61801, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [3]
[4] School of Nano-Bioscience and Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute 
of Science and Technology, Ulsan 689-798, Republic of Korea (H.K.); Department of
Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California at San Francisco, 600 16th 
Street, San Francisco, California 94143-2200, USA (M.M.); Department of Cell
Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, LHRRB-517, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115-5730, USA (K.R.).
(2)1] T. C. Jenkins Department of Biophysics, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 N.
Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA [2].
(3)1] Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2] Department of Chemistry,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(4)1] CMDB Program, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 N. Charles Street, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21218, USA [2] School of Nano-Bioscience and Chemical Engineering, Ulsan
National Institute of Science and Technology, Ulsan 689-798, Republic of Korea
(H.K.); Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California at
San Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, California 94143-2200, USA (M.M.);
Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
LHRRB-517, Boston, Massachusetts 02115-5730, USA (K.R.).
(5)1] Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [2] School of Nano-Bioscience and
Chemical Engineering, Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology, Ulsan
689-798, Republic of Korea (H.K.); Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics,
University of California at San Francisco, 600 16th Street, San Francisco,
California 94143-2200, USA (M.M.); Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical
School, 240 Longwood Avenue, LHRRB-517, Boston, Massachusetts 02115-5730, USA
(K.R.).
(6)1] Department of Physics, Center for the Physics of Living Cells and Institute
for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois
61801, USA [2] Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [3] Department of
Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801,
USA.
(7)1] Department of Physics, Center for the Physics of Living Cells and Institute
for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois
61801, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [3]
Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA [4] Department of Chemistry,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(8)1] T. C. Jenkins Department of Biophysics, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 N.
Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA [2] CMDB Program, Johns Hopkins
University, 3400 N. Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):303-4.

The assembly of 30S ribosomes requires the precise addition of 20 proteins to the
16S ribosomal RNA. How early binding proteins change the ribosomal RNA structure 
so that later proteins may join the complex is poorly understood. Here we use
single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) to observe
real-time encounters between Escherichia coli ribosomal protein S4 and the 16S 5'
domain RNA at an early stage of 30S assembly. Dynamic initial S4-RNA complexes
pass through a stable non-native intermediate before converting to the native
complex, showing that non-native structures can offer a low free-energy path to
protein-RNA recognition. Three-colour FRET and molecular dynamics simulations
reveal how S4 changes the frequency and direction of RNA helix motions, guiding a
conformational switch that enforces the hierarchy of protein addition. These
protein-guided dynamics offer an alternative explanation for induced fit in
RNA-protein complexes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13039 
PMCID: PMC3968076
PMID: 24522531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):328-33. doi: 10.1038/nature13038. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

Identification of pre-leukaemic haematopoietic stem cells in acute leukaemia.

Shlush LI(1), Zandi S(1), Mitchell A(2), Chen WC(2), Brandwein JM(3), Gupta V(3),
Kennedy JA(2), Schimmer AD(4), Schuh AC(3), Yee KW(3), McLeod JL(2), Doedens
M(2), Medeiros JJ(2), Marke R(5), Kim HJ(6), Lee K(6), McPherson JD(7), Hudson
TJ(8); HALT Pan-Leukemia Gene Panel Consortium, Brown AM(9), Yousif F, Trinh
QM(9), Stein LD(10), Minden MD(4), Wang JC(3), Dick JE(11).

Collaborators: Hudson TJ, Jamieson C, Frazer KA, McPherson JD, Chun HJ, Danska
JS, Dick JE, Kipps TJ, Messer K, Minden MD, Muthuswamy LB, Smith EN, Wang JC,
Holt C, Muthuswamy LB, Yousif FY, Brown AM, McPherson JD, Beck TA, Bao L, Claudio
JO, Helm MG, Kotzer A, Moniakis J, Prussak CE, Sadarangani A, Chiu P, Eppert K,
Guidos CJ, Hogge DE, Kowalski PE, Marra MA, Notta F, Schimmer AD, Shlush L, Jiang
B, Mullen L, Pasternack D, Timms L, Sam M.

Author information: 
(1)1] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [2].
(2)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto,
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada.
(3)1] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Department of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 2J7, Canada [3] Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology,
UHN, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada.
(4)1] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Department of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 2J7, Canada [3] Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology,
UHN, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [4] Department of Medical Biophysics,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada.
(5)1] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto, 
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Radboud University, Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen
6500 HB, The Netherlands.
(6)Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital, Genome Research Center for
Hematopoietic Diseases, Gwangju 519-809, South Korea.
(7)1] Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, Ontario M5G
0A3, Canada.
(8)1] Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, Ontario M5G
0A3, Canada [3] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.
(9)Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, Ontario M5G 0A3, Canada.
(10)1] Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, Ontario M5G 0A3, Canada
[2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S
1A8, Canada.
(11)1] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto,
Ontario M5G 2M9, Canada [2] Department of Molecular Genetics, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Apr 17;508(7496):420. Yousif, Fouad [added].

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Apr 3;14(4):421-2.
    Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):300-1.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Apr;14(4):212.

In acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), the cell of origin, nature and biological
consequences of initiating lesions, and order of subsequent mutations remain
poorly understood, as AML is typically diagnosed without observation of a
pre-leukaemic phase. Here, highly purified haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs),
progenitor and mature cell fractions from the blood of AML patients were found to
contain recurrent DNMT3A mutations (DNMT3A(mut)) at high allele frequency, but
without coincident NPM1 mutations (NPM1c) present in AML blasts.
DNMT3A(mut)-bearing HSCs showed a multilineage repopulation advantage over
non-mutated HSCs in xenografts, establishing their identity as pre-leukaemic
HSCs. Pre-leukaemic HSCs were found in remission samples, indicating that they
survive chemotherapy. Therefore DNMT3A(mut) arises early in AML evolution,
probably in HSCs, leading to a clonally expanded pool of pre-leukaemic HSCs from 
which AML evolves. Our findings provide a paradigm for the detection and
treatment of pre-leukaemic clones before the acquisition of additional genetic
lesions engenders greater therapeutic resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13038 
PMCID: PMC4991939
PMID: 24522528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):349-54. doi: 10.1038/nature12952. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Exceptional ballistic transport in epitaxial graphene nanoribbons.

Baringhaus J(1), Ruan M(2), Edler F(3), Tejeda A(4), Sicot M(5), Taleb-Ibrahimi
A(6), Li AP(7), Jiang Z(8), Conrad EH(8), Berger C(9), Tegenkamp C(3), de Heer
WA(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut für Festkörperphysik, Leibniz Universität, Hannover, Appelstrasse 
2, 30167 Hannover, Germany [2].
(2)1] School of Physics, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
30332-0430, USA [2].
(3)Institut für Festkörperphysik, Leibniz Universität, Hannover, Appelstrasse 2, 
30167 Hannover, Germany.
(4)1] Université de Lorraine, UMR CNRS 7198, Institut Jean Lamour, BP 70239,
54506 Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France [2] UR1 CNRS/Synchrotron SOLEIL, Saint-Aubin, 
91192 Gif sur Yvette, France.
(5)Université de Lorraine, UMR CNRS 7198, Institut Jean Lamour, BP 70239, 54506
Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France.
(6)UR1 CNRS/Synchrotron SOLEIL, Saint-Aubin, 91192 Gif sur Yvette, France.
(7)Center for Nanophase Materials Sciences, Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
Tennessee 37831, USA.
(8)School of Physics, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
30332-0430, USA.
(9)1] School of Physics, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia
30332-0430, USA [2] Institut Néel, CNRS UJF-INP, 38042 Cedex 6, Grenoble, France.

Graphene nanoribbons will be essential components in future graphene
nanoelectronics. However, in typical nanoribbons produced from lithographically
patterned exfoliated graphene, the charge carriers travel only about ten
nanometres between scattering events, resulting in minimum sheet resistances of
about one kilohm per square. Here we show that 40-nanometre-wide graphene
nanoribbons epitaxially grown on silicon carbide are single-channel
room-temperature ballistic conductors on a length scale greater than ten
micrometres, which is similar to the performance of metallic carbon nanotubes.
This is equivalent to sheet resistances below 1 ohm per square, surpassing
theoretical predictions for perfect graphene by at least an order of magnitude.
In neutral graphene ribbons, we show that transport is dominated by two modes.
One is ballistic and temperature independent; the other is thermally activated.
Transport is protected from back-scattering, possibly reflecting ground-state
properties of neutral graphene. At room temperature, the resistance of both modes
is found to increase abruptly at a particular length--the ballistic mode at 16
micrometres and the other at 160 nanometres. Our epitaxial graphene nanoribbons
will be important not only in fundamental science, but also--because they can be 
readily produced in thousands--in advanced nanoelectronics, which can make use of
their room-temperature ballistic transport properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12952 
PMID: 24499819 


822. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):322-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12948. Epub 2014 Jan 26.

In situ identification of bipotent stem cells in the mammary gland.

Rios AC(1), Fu NY(1), Lindeman GJ(2), Visvader JE(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Stem Cells and Cancer Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of
Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia [2] Department of Medical
Biology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia [3].
(2)1] Stem Cells and Cancer Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of
Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia [2] Department of Medicine,
The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia [3] Department
of Medical Oncology and Familial Cancer Centre, The Royal Melbourne Hospital,
Parkville, Victoria 3050, Australia.
(3)1] Stem Cells and Cancer Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of
Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia [2] Department of Medical
Biology, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2014;16(6):480.

The mammary epithelium undergoes profound morphogenetic changes during
development. Architecturally, it comprises two primary lineages, the inner
luminal and outer myoepithelial cell layers. Two opposing concepts on the nature 
of mammary stem cells (MaSCs) in the postnatal gland have emerged. One model,
based on classical transplantation assays, postulates that bipotent MaSCs have a 
key role in coordinating ductal epithelial expansion and maintenance in the adult
gland, whereas the second model proposes that only unipotent MaSCs identified by 
lineage tracing contribute to these processes. Through clonal cell-fate mapping
studies using a stochastic multicolour cre reporter combined with a new
three-dimensional imaging strategy, we provide evidence for the existence of
bipotent MaSCs as well as distinct long-lived progenitor cells. The cellular
dynamics at different developmental stages support a model in which both stem and
progenitor cells drive morphogenesis during puberty, whereas bipotent MaSCs
coordinate ductal homeostasis and remodelling of the mouse adult gland.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12948 
PMID: 24463516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):387-390. doi: 10.1038/nature12891. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Convergent evolution of a fused sexual cycle promotes the haploid lifestyle.

Sherwood RK(#)(1), Scaduto CM(#)(1), Torres SE(1), Bennett RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Brown University, 171 Meeting St,
Providence, RI, 02912.
(#)Contributed equally

Sexual reproduction is restricted to eukaryotic species and involves the fusion
of haploid gametes to form a diploid cell that subsequently undergoes meiosis to 
generate recombinant haploid forms. This process has been extensively studied in 
the unicellular yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which exhibits separate
regulatory control over mating and meiosis. Here we address the mechanism of
sexual reproduction in the related hemiascomycete species Candida lusitaniae. We 
demonstrate that, in contrast to S. cerevisiae, C. lusitaniae exhibits a highly
integrated sexual program in which the programs regulating mating and meiosis
have fused. Profiling of the C. lusitaniae sexual cycle revealed that gene
expression patterns during mating and meiosis were overlapping, indicative of
co-regulation. This was particularly evident for genes involved in pheromone MAPK
signalling, which were highly induced throughout the sexual cycle of C.
lusitaniae. Furthermore, genetic analysis showed that the orthologue of IME2, a
'diploid-specific' factor in S. cerevisiae, and STE12, the master regulator of S.
cerevisiae mating, were each required for progression through both mating and
meiosis in C. lusitaniae. Together, our results establish that sexual
reproduction has undergone significant rewiring between S. cerevisiae and C.
lusitaniae, and that a concerted sexual cycle operates in C. lusitaniae that is
more reminiscent of the distantly related ascomycete, Schizosaccharomyces pombe. 
We discuss these results in light of the evolution of sexual reproduction in
yeast, and propose that regulatory coupling of mating and meiosis has evolved
multiple times as an adaptation to promote the haploid lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12891 
PMCID: PMC4051440
PMID: 24390351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):371-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12881. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Landscape of genomic alterations in cervical carcinomas.

Ojesina AI(1), Lichtenstein L(2), Freeman SS(3), Pedamallu CS(4),
Imaz-Rosshandler I(5), Pugh TJ(4), Cherniack AD(3), Ambrogio L(3), Cibulskis
K(3), Bertelsen B(6), Romero-Cordoba S(5), Treviño V(7), Vazquez-Santillan K(5), 
Guadarrama AS(5), Wright AA(8), Rosenberg MW(3), Duke F(9), Kaplan B(4), Wang
R(10), Nickerson E(3), Walline HM(11), Lawrence MS(3), Stewart C(3), Carter
SL(3), McKenna A(3), Rodriguez-Sanchez IP(12), Espinosa-Castilla M(5), Woie
K(13), Bjorge L(14), Wik E(14), Halle MK(14), Hoivik EA(14), Krakstad C(14),
Gabiño NB(5), Gómez-Macías GS(12), Valdez-Chapa LD(12), Garza-Rodríguez ML(12),
Maytorena G(15), Vazquez J(15), Rodea C(15), Cravioto A(15), Cortes ML(3),
Greulich H(16), Crum CP(17), Neuberg DS(18), Hidalgo-Miranda A(5), Escareno
CR(19), Akslen LA(20), Carey TE(21), Vintermyr OK(20), Gabriel SB(3),
Barrera-Saldaña HA(12), Melendez-Zajgla J(5), Getz G(22), Salvesen HB(23),
Meyerson M(24).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [3].
(2)1] The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2].
(3)The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology
and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(4)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(5)Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genomica, Mexico City 14610, Mexico.
(6)Department of Pathology, Haukeland University Hospital, N5021 Bergen, Norway.
(7)Tecnológico de Monterrey, Monterrey 64849, Mexico.
(8)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(10)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Department of Thoracic Surgery, Fudan University
Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai 200032, China.
(11)Cancer Biology Program, Program in the Biomedical Sciences, Rackham Graduate 
School, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(12)Facultad de Medicina y Hospital Universitario 'Dr. José Eluterio González' de
la Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Monterrey, Nuevo León 64460, México.
(13)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Haukeland University Hospital, N5021
Bergen, Norway.
(14)1] Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Haukeland University Hospital,
N5021 Bergen, Norway [2] Department of Clinical Science, Centre for Cancer
Biomarkers, University of Bergen, N5020 Bergen, Norway.
(15)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Mexico City 06720, Mexico.
(16)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(17)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA.
(18)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(19)1] Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genomica, Mexico City 14610, Mexico [2]
Claremont Graduate University, Claremont, California 91711, USA.
(20)1] Department of Pathology, Haukeland University Hospital, N5021 Bergen,
Norway [2] Centre for Cancer Biomarkers, Department of Clinical Medicine,
University of Bergen, N5020 Bergen, Norway.
(21)Head and Neck Oncology Program and Department of Otolaryngology, University
of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan 38109, USA.
(22)1] The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Department of Pathology,
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02114, USA.
(23)1] Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Haukeland University Hospital,
N5021 Bergen, Norway [2] Department of Clinical Science, Centre for Cancer
Biomarkers, University of Bergen, N5020 Bergen, Norway [3].
(24)1] Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] The Eli and Edythe L. Broad Institute of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4].

Cervical cancer is responsible for 10-15% of cancer-related deaths in women
worldwide. The aetiological role of infection with high-risk human papilloma
viruses (HPVs) in cervical carcinomas is well established. Previous studies have 
also implicated somatic mutations in PIK3CA, PTEN, TP53, STK11 and KRAS as well
as several copy-number alterations in the pathogenesis of cervical carcinomas.
Here we report whole-exome sequencing analysis of 115 cervical carcinoma-normal
paired samples, transcriptome sequencing of 79 cases and whole-genome sequencing 
of 14 tumour-normal pairs. Previously unknown somatic mutations in 79 primary
squamous cell carcinomas include recurrent E322K substitutions in the MAPK1 gene 
(8%), inactivating mutations in the HLA-B gene (9%), and mutations in EP300
(16%), FBXW7 (15%), NFE2L2 (4%), TP53 (5%) and ERBB2 (6%). We also observe
somatic ELF3 (13%) and CBFB (8%) mutations in 24 adenocarcinomas. Squamous cell
carcinomas have higher frequencies of somatic nucleotide substitutions occurring 
at cytosines preceded by thymines (Tp*C sites) than adenocarcinomas. Gene
expression levels at HPV integration sites were statistically significantly
higher in tumours with HPV integration compared with expression of the same genes
in tumours without viral integration at the same site. These data demonstrate
several recurrent genomic alterations in cervical carcinomas that suggest new
strategies to combat this disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12881 
PMCID: PMC4161954
PMID: 24390348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):391-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12905. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Structure of a Naegleria Tet-like dioxygenase in complex with 5-methylcytosine
DNA.

Hashimoto H(1), Pais JE(2), Zhang X(1), Saleh L(2), Fu ZQ(3), Dai N(2), Corrêa IR
Jr(2), Zheng Y(2), Cheng X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biochemistry, Emory University School of Medicine, 1510 Clifton
Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(2)New England Biolabs, 240 County Road, Ipswich, Massachusetts 01938, USA.
(3)1] Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia 30602, USA [2] Sector 22, Advanced Photon Source, Argonne
National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA.

Cytosine residues in mammalian DNA occur in five forms: cytosine (C),
5-methylcytosine (5mC), 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), 5-formylcytosine (5fC)
and 5-carboxylcytosine (5caC). The ten-eleven translocation (Tet) dioxygenases
convert 5mC to 5hmC, 5fC and 5caC in three consecutive, Fe(II)- and
α-ketoglutarate-dependent oxidation reactions. The Tet family of dioxygenases is 
widely distributed across the tree of life, including in the heterolobosean
amoeboflagellate Naegleria gruberi. The genome of Naegleria encodes homologues of
mammalian DNA methyltransferase and Tet proteins. Here we study biochemically and
structurally one of the Naegleria Tet-like proteins (NgTet1), which shares
significant sequence conservation (approximately 14% identity or 39% similarity) 
with mammalian Tet1. Like mammalian Tet proteins, NgTet1 acts on 5mC and
generates 5hmC, 5fC and 5caC. The crystal structure of NgTet1 in complex with DNA
containing a 5mCpG site revealed that NgTet1 uses a base-flipping mechanism to
access 5mC. The DNA is contacted from the minor groove and bent towards the major
groove. The flipped 5mC is positioned in the active-site pocket with planar
stacking contacts, Watson-Crick polar hydrogen bonds and van der Waals
interactions specific for 5mC. The sequence conservation between NgTet1 and
mammalian Tet1, including residues involved in structural integrity and
functional significance, suggests structural conservation across phyla.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12905 
PMCID: PMC4364404
PMID: 24390346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):382-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12875. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Selection and evaluation of clinically relevant AAV variants in a xenograft liver
model.

Lisowski L(1), Dane AP(2), Chu K(3), Zhang Y(3), Cunningham SC(4), Wilson EM(5), 
Nygaard S(6), Grompe M(6), Alexander IE(7), Kay MA(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Stanford University, School of Medicine, Departments of Pediatrics and
Genetics, 269 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Gene Transfer,
Targeting and Therapeutics Core, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 10010
N. Torrey Pines Rd, San Diego, California 92037, USA (L.L.); Department of
Haematology, University College London Cancer Institute, London WC1E 6BT, UK
(A.P.D.).
(2)1] Gene Therapy Research Unit, The Children's Hospital at Westmead and
Children's Medical Research Institute, Locked Bag 4001, Westmead, 2145 New South 
Wales, Australia [2] Gene Transfer, Targeting and Therapeutics Core, The Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, 10010 N. Torrey Pines Rd, San Diego, California
92037, USA (L.L.); Department of Haematology, University College London Cancer
Institute, London WC1E 6BT, UK (A.P.D.).
(3)Stanford University, School of Medicine, Departments of Pediatrics and
Genetics, 269 Campus Drive, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)Gene Therapy Research Unit, The Children's Hospital at Westmead and Children's
Medical Research Institute, Locked Bag 4001, Westmead, 2145 New South Wales,
Australia.
(5)Yecuris Corporation, Portland, Oregon 97062, USA.
(6)Oregon Stem Cell Center, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland,
Oregon 97239, USA.
(7)1] Gene Therapy Research Unit, The Children's Hospital at Westmead and
Children's Medical Research Institute, Locked Bag 4001, Westmead, 2145 New South 
Wales, Australia [2] Discipline of Paediatrics and Child Health, The University
of Sydney, 2145 New South Wales, Australia.

Recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors have shown early promise in
clinical trials. The therapeutic transgene cassette can be packaged in different 
AAV capsid pseudotypes, each having a unique transduction profile. At present,
rAAV capsid serotype selection for a specific clinical trial is based on
effectiveness in animal models. However, preclinical animal studies are not
always predictive of human outcome. Here, in an attempt to further our
understanding of these discrepancies, we used a chimaeric human-murine liver
model to compare directly the relative efficiency of rAAV transduction in human
versus mouse hepatocytes in vivo. As predicted from preclinical and clinical
studies, rAAV2 vectors functionally transduced mouse and human hepatocytes at
equivalent but relatively low levels. However, rAAV8 vectors, which are very
effective in many animal models, transduced human hepatocytes rather
poorly-approximately 20 times less efficiently than mouse hepatocytes. In light
of the limitations of the rAAV vectors currently used in clinical studies, we
used the same murine chimaeric liver model to perform serial selection using a
human-specific replication-competent viral library composed of DNA-shuffled AAV
capsids. One chimaeric capsid composed of five different parental AAV capsids was
found to transduce human primary hepatocytes at high efficiency in vitro and in
vivo, and provided species-selected transduction in primary liver, cultured cells
and a hepatocellular carcinoma xenograft model. This vector is an ideal clinical 
candidate and a reagent for gene modification of human xenotransplants in mouse
models of human diseases. More importantly, our results suggest that humanized
murine models may represent a more precise approach for both selecting and
evaluating clinically relevant rAAV serotypes for gene therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12875 
PMCID: PMC3939040
PMID: 24390344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):376-81. doi: 10.1038/nature12873. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Genetics of rheumatoid arthritis contributes to biology and drug discovery.

Okada Y(1), Wu D(2), Trynka G(1), Raj T(3), Terao C(4), Ikari K(5), Kochi Y(6),
Ohmura K(7), Suzuki A(6), Yoshida S(5), Graham RR(8), Manoharan A(8), Ortmann
W(8), Bhangale T(8), Denny JC(9), Carroll RJ(10), Eyler AE(11), Greenberg JD(12),
Kremer JM(13), Pappas DA(14), Jiang L(15), Yin J(15), Ye L(15), Su DF(16), Yang
J(17), Xie G(18), Keystone E(19), Westra HJ(20), Esko T(21), Metspalu A(22), Zhou
X(23), Gupta N(24), Mirel D(24), Stahl EA(25), Diogo D(1), Cui J(1), Liao K(1),
Guo MH(26), Myouzen K(6), Kawaguchi T(27), Coenen MJ(28), van Riel PL(29), van de
Laar MA(30), Guchelaar HJ(31), Huizinga TW(32), Dieudé P(33), Mariette X(34),
Bridges SL Jr(35), Zhernakova A(36), Toes RE(32), Tak PP(37), Miceli-Richard
C(34), Bang SY(38), Lee HS(38), Martin J(39), Gonzalez-Gay MA(40),
Rodriguez-Rodriguez L(41), Rantapää-Dahlqvist S(42), Arlestig L(42), Choi HK(43),
Kamatani Y(44), Galan P(45), Lathrop M(46); RACI consortium; GARNET consortium,
Eyre S(47), Bowes J(47), Barton A(48), de Vries N(49), Moreland LW(50), Criswell 
LA(51), Karlson EW(52), Taniguchi A(5), Yamada R(53), Kubo M(54), Liu JS(55), Bae
SC(38), Worthington J(47), Padyukov L(56), Klareskog L(56), Gregersen PK(57),
Raychaudhuri S(58), Stranger BE(59), De Jager PL(3), Franke L(20), Visscher
PM(17), Brown MA(60), Yamanaka H(5), Mimori T(7), Takahashi A(61), Xu H(15),
Behrens TW(8), Siminovitch KA(18), Momohara S(5), Matsuda F(62), Yamamoto K(63), 
Plenge RM(1).

Collaborators: Eyre S, Bowes J, Diogo D, Lee A, Barton A, Martin P, Zhernakova A,
Stahl E, Viatte S, McAllister K, Amos CI, Padyukov L, Toes RE, Huizinga TW,
Wijmenga C, Trynka G, Franke L, Westra HJ, Alfredsson L, Hu X, Sandor C, de
Bakker PI, Davila S, Khor CC, Heng KK, Andrews R, Edkins S, Hunt SE, Langford C, 
Symmons D, Concannon P, Onengut-Gumuscu S, Rich SS, Deloukas P, Gonzalez-Gay MA, 
Rodriguez-Rodriguez L, Ärlsetig L, Martin J, Rantapää-Dahlqvist S, Plenge RM,
Raychaudhuri S, Klareskog L, Gregersen PK, Worthington J, Okada Y, Terao C, Ikari
K, Kochi Y, Ohmura K, Suzuki A, Kawaguchi T, Stahl E, Kurreman F, Nishida N,
Ohmiya H, Myouzen K, Takahashi M, Sawada T, Nishioka Y, Yukioka M, Matsubara T,
Wakitani S, Teshima R, Tohma S, Takasugi K, Shimada K, Murasawa A, Honjo S,
Matsuo K, Tanaka H, Tajima K, Suzuki T, Iwamoto T, Kawamura Y, Tanii H, Okazaki
Y, Sasaki T, Gregersen PK, Padyukov L, Worthington J, Siminovitch KA, Lathrop M, 
Taniguchi A, Takahashi A, Tokunaga K, Kubo M, Nakamura Y, Kamatani N, Mimori T,
Plenge RM, Yamanaka H, Momohara S, Yamada R, Matsuda F, Yamamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, and Allergy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Division 
of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA. [3] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad
Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)1] Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, and Allergy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Division 
of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA. [3] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad
Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA. [4] Department of Statistics,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. [5] Centre for Cancer
Research, Monash Institute of Medical Research, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia.
(3)1] Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics,
Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA. [3] Program in
Translational NeuroPsychiatric Genomics, Institute for the Neurosciences,
Department of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.
(4)1] Center for Genomic Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. [2] Department of Rheumatology and Clinical immunology,
Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(5)Institute of Rheumatology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo 162-0054,
Japan.
(6)Laboratory for Autoimmune Diseases, Center for Integrative Medical Sciences,
RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.
(7)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical immunology, Graduate School of
Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(8)Immunology Biomarkers Group, Genentech, South San Francisco, California 94080,
USA.
(9)1] Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA. [2] Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt
University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(10)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.
(11)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37232, USA.
(12)New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York, New York 10003,
USA.
(13)Department of Medicine, Albany Medical Center and The Center for
Rheumatology, Albany, New York 12206, USA.
(14)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, New York, Presbyterian
Hospital, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New 
York 10032, USA.
(15)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital,
Second Military Medical University, Shanghai 200003, China.
(16)Department of Pharmacology, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai
200433, China.
(17)1] University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, Translational Research
Institute, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia. [2] Queensland Brain Institute, 
The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(18)1] Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario M5G 1X5, Canada. [2] Toronto General Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario
M5G 2M9, Canada. [3] Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 2J7, Canada.
(19)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital and University of Toronto,
Toronto M5S 2J7, Canada.
(20)Department of Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen, University of
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, Groningen 9700 RB, the Netherlands.
(21)1] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA. [2] Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Riia
23b, Tartu 51010, Estonia. [3] Division of Endocrinology, Children's Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(22)Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Riia 23b, Tartu 51010, Estonia.
(23)School of Computer and Information Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University,
Beijing 100044, China.
(24)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(25)The Department of Psychiatry at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10029, USA.
(26)1] Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, and Allergy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Program
in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA. [3] Division of Endocrinology, Children's Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(27)Center for Genomic Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine,
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(28)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen
6500 HB, the Netherlands.
(29)Department of Rheumatology, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen 6500 
HB, the Netherlands.
(30)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Arthritis Center Twente, 
University Twente & Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede 7500 AE, the Netherlands.
(31)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Toxicology, Leiden University Medical
Center, Leiden 2300 RC, the Netherlands.
(32)Department of Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2300 RC,
the Netherlands.
(33)1] Service de Rhumatologie et INSERM U699 Hôpital Bichat Claude Bernard,
Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris 75018, France. [2] Université
Paris 7-Diderot, Paris 75013, France.
(34)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U1012,
Université Paris-Sud, Rhumatologie, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris-Sud, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Le Kremlin Bicêtre 94275, France.
(35)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.
(36)1] Department of Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen, University of
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, Groningen 9700 RB, the Netherlands. [2] Department of
Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 2300 RC, the Netherlands.
(37)1] AMC/University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1105 AZ, the Netherlands. [2]
GlaxoSmithKline, Stevenage SG1 2NY, UK. [3] University of Cambridge, Cambridge
CB2 1TN, UK.
(38)Department of Rheumatology, Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic
Diseases, Seoul 133-792, South Korea.
(39)Instituto de Parasitologia y Biomedicina Lopez-Neyra, CSIC, Granada 18100,
Spain.
(40)Department of Rheumatology, Hospital Marques de Valdecilla, IFIMAV, Santander
39008, Spain.
(41)Hospital Clinico San Carlos, Madrid 28040, Spain.
(42)1] Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Umeå University, Umeå
SE-901 87, Sweden. [2] Department of Rheumatology, Umeå University, Umeå SE-901
87, Sweden.
(43)1] Channing Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Boston 02115, Massachusetts, USA. [2] Section of
Rheumatology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, 
USA. [3] Clinical Epidemiology Research and Training Unit, Boston University
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02118, USA.
(44)Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH), Paris 75010, France.
(45)Université Paris 13 Sorbonne Paris Cité, UREN (Nutritional Epidemiology
Research Unit), Inserm (U557), Inra (U1125), Cnam, Bobigny 93017, France.
(46)McGill University and Génome Québec Innovation Centre, Montréal, Québec H3A
0G1 Canada.
(47)1] Arthritis Research UK Epidemiology Unit, Centre for Musculoskeletal
Research, University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre,
Manchester M13 9NT, UK. [2] National Institute for Health Research, Manchester
Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit, Central Manchester University Hospitals
National Health Service Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Sciences
Centre, Manchester M13 9NT, UK.
(48)Arthritis Research UK Epidemiology Unit, Centre for Musculoskeletal Research,
University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester
M13 9NT, UK.
(49)Department of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology & Department of Genome
Analysis, Academic Medical Center/University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam 1105 AZ, the
Netherlands.
(50)Division of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA.
(51)Rosalind Russell Medical Research Center for Arthritis, Division of
Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94117, USA.
(52)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, and Allergy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(53)Unit of Statistical Genetics, Center for Genomic Medicine Graduate School of 
Medicine Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
(54)Laboratory for Genotyping Development, Center for Integrative Medical
Sciences, RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.
(55)Department of Statistics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.
(56)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Medicine (Solna), Karolinska Institutet,
Stockholm SE-171 76, Sweden.
(57)The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, North Shore-Long Island Jewish 
Health System, Manhasset, New York 11030, USA.
(58)1] Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, and Allergy, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. [2] Division 
of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA. [3] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad
Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA. [4] NIHR Manchester
Musculoskeletal Biomedical, Research Unit, Central Manchester NHS Foundation
Trust, Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Manchester M13 9NT, UK.
(59)1] Section of Genetic Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA. [2] Institute for Genomics and Systems Biology, University of
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(60)University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, Translational Research
Institute, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
(61)Laboratory for Statistical Analysis, Center for Integrative Medical Sciences,
RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.
(62)1] Center for Genomic Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine,
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. [2] Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology
(CREST) program, Japan Science and Technology Agency, Kawaguchi, Saitama
332-0012, Japan. [3] Institut National de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale
(INSERM) Unite U852, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
606-8507, Japan.
(63)1] Laboratory for Autoimmune Diseases, Center for Integrative Medical
Sciences, RIKEN, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan. [2] Department of Allergy and
Rheumatology, Graduate School of Medicine, the University of Tokyo, Tokyo
113-0033, Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2014 Apr;10(4):199-200.

A major challenge in human genetics is to devise a systematic strategy to
integrate disease-associated variants with diverse genomic and biological data
sets to provide insight into disease pathogenesis and guide drug discovery for
complex traits such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we performed a genome-wide
association study meta-analysis in a total of >100,000 subjects of European and
Asian ancestries (29,880 RA cases and 73,758 controls), by evaluating ∼10 million
single-nucleotide polymorphisms. We discovered 42 novel RA risk loci at a
genome-wide level of significance, bringing the total to 101 (refs 2 - 4). We
devised an in silico pipeline using established bioinformatics methods based on
functional annotation, cis-acting expression quantitative trait loci and pathway 
analyses--as well as novel methods based on genetic overlap with human primary
immunodeficiency, haematological cancer somatic mutations and knockout mouse
phenotypes--to identify 98 biological candidate genes at these 101 risk loci. We 
demonstrate that these genes are the targets of approved therapies for RA, and
further suggest that drugs approved for other indications may be repurposed for
the treatment of RA. Together, this comprehensive genetic study sheds light on
fundamental genes, pathways and cell types that contribute to RA pathogenesis,
and provides empirical evidence that the genetics of RA can provide important
information for drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12873 
PMCID: PMC3944098
PMID: 24390342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):359-63. doi: 10.1038/nature12874. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Species coexistence and the dynamics of phenotypic evolution in adaptive
radiation.

Tobias JA(1), Cornwallis CK(2), Derryberry EP(3), Claramunt S(4), Brumfield
RT(5), Seddon N(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PS, UK [2].
(2)1] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PS, UK [2] Department of Biology, Lund University, Lund, SE-223 62, Sweden
[3].
(3)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane
University, New Orleans, Louisiana 70118, USA.
(4)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University,
Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA [3] Department of Ornithology, American Museum 
of Natural History, New York, New York 10024, USA.
(5)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA [2] Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University,
Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA.
(6)Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1
3PS, UK.

Interactions between species can promote evolutionary divergence of ecological
traits and social signals, a process widely assumed to generate species
differences in adaptive radiation. However, an alternative view is that lineages 
typically interact when relatively old, by which time selection for divergence is
weak and potentially exceeded by convergent selection acting on traits mediating 
interspecific competition. Few studies have tested these contrasting predictions 
across large radiations, or by controlling for evolutionary time. Thus the role
of species interactions in driving broad-scale patterns of trait divergence is
unclear. Here we use phylogenetic estimates of divergence times to show that
increased trait differences among coexisting lineages of ovenbirds (Furnariidae) 
are explained by their greater evolutionary age in relation to non-interacting
lineages, and that--when these temporal biases are accounted for--the only
significant effect of coexistence is convergence in a social signal (song). Our
results conflict with the conventional view that coexistence promotes trait
divergence among co-occurring organisms at macroevolutionary scales, and instead 
provide evidence that species interactions can drive phenotypic convergence
across entire radiations, a pattern generally concealed by biases in age.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12874 
PMID: 24362572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):367-70. doi: 10.1038/nature12871. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Unidirectional pulmonary airflow patterns in the savannah monitor lizard.

Schachner ER(1), Cieri RL(1), Butler JP(2), Farmer CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84112, USA.
(2)1] Division of Sleep Medicine, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [2] Molecular and Integrative Physiologic
Science Program, Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public
Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

The unidirectional airflow patterns in the lungs of birds have long been
considered a unique and specialized trait associated with the oxygen demands of
flying, their endothermic metabolism and unusual pulmonary architecture. However,
the discovery of similar flow patterns in the lungs of crocodilians indicates
that this character is probably ancestral for all archosaurs--the group that
includes extant birds and crocodilians as well as their extinct relatives, such
as pterosaurs and dinosaurs. Unidirectional flow in birds results from
aerodynamic valves, rather than from sphincters or other physical mechanisms, and
similar aerodynamic valves seem to be present in crocodilians. The anatomical and
developmental similarities in the primary and secondary bronchi of birds and
crocodilians suggest that these structures and airflow patterns may be
homologous. The origin of this pattern is at least as old as the split between
crocodilians and birds, which occurred in the Triassic period. Alternatively,
this pattern of flow may be even older; this hypothesis can be tested by
investigating patterns of airflow in members of the outgroup to birds and
crocodilians, the Lepidosauromorpha (tuatara, lizards and snakes). Here we
demonstrate region-specific unidirectional airflow in the lungs of the savannah
monitor lizard (Varanus exanthematicus). The presence of unidirectional flow in
the lungs of V. exanthematicus thus gives rise to two possible evolutionary
scenarios: either unidirectional airflow evolved independently in archosaurs and 
monitor lizards, or these flow patterns are homologous in archosaurs and
V. exanthematicus, having evolved only once in ancestral diapsids (the clade
encompassing snakes, lizards, crocodilians and birds). If unidirectional airflow 
is plesiomorphic for Diapsida, this respiratory character can be reconstructed
for extinct diapsids, and evolved in a small ectothermic tetrapod during the
Palaeozoic era at least a hundred million years before the origin of birds.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12871 
PMID: 24336209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):E2-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12926.

Jasechko et al. reply.

Jasechko S(1), Sharp ZD(1), Gibson JJ(2), Birks SJ(3), Yi Y(2), Fawcett PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131, USA.
(2)1] Alberta Innovates-Technology Futures, Vancouver Island Technology Park,
Victoria, British Columbia V8Z 7X8, Canada [2] Department of Geography,
University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia V8W 3R4, Canada.
(3)1] Alberta Innovates-Technology Futures, Vancouver Island Technology Park,
Victoria, British Columbia V8Z 7X8, Canada [2] Department of Earth and
Environmental Sciences, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1,
Canada.

Comment on
    Nature. 2013 Apr 18;496(7445):347-50.
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):E1-2.

replying to A. M. J. Coenders-Gerrits et al. 506,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature12925 (2014)In their Comment, Coenders-Gerrits et
al. suggest that our conclusion that transpiration dominates the terrestrial
water cycle is biased by unrepresentative input data and optimistic uncertainty
ranges related to runoff, interception and the isotopic compositions of
transpired and evaporated moisture. We clearly presented the uncertainties
applied in our Monte-Carlo sensitivity analysis, we reported percentile ranges of
results rather than standard deviations to best communicate the nonlinear nature 
of the isotopic evaporation model, and we highlighted that the uncertainty in our
calculation remains large, particularly in humid catchments (for example, figure 
2 in our paper).

DOI: 10.1038/nature12926 
PMID: 24522604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):E1-2. doi: 10.1038/nature12925.

Uncertainties in transpiration estimates.

Coenders-Gerrits AM(1), van der Ent RJ(1), Bogaard TA(1), Wang-Erlandsson L(2),
Hrachowitz M(1), Savenije HH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Water Resources Section, Delft University of Technology, Stevinweg 1, 2628 CN 
Delft, The Netherlands.
(2)1] Water Resources Section, Delft University of Technology, Stevinweg 1, 2628 
CN Delft, The Netherlands [2] Stockholm Resilience Centre, Kräftriket 2, SE 10691
Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):E2-3.

Comment on
    Nature. 2013 Apr 18;496(7445):347-50.

arising from S. Jasechko et al. Nature 496, 347-350 (2013)10.1038/nature11983How 
best to assess the respective importance of plant transpiration over evaporation 
from open waters, soils and short-term storage such as tree canopies and
understories (interception) has long been debated. On the basis of data from lake
catchments, Jasechko et al. conclude that transpiration accounts for 80-90% of
total land evaporation globally (Fig. 1a). However, another choice of input data,
together with more conservative accounting of the related uncertainties, reduces 
and widens the transpiration ratio estimation to 35-80%. Hence, climate models do
not necessarily conflict with observations, but more measurements on the
catchment scale are needed to reduce the uncertainty range. There is a Reply to
this Brief Communications Arising by Jasechko, S. et al. Nature 506,
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature12926 (2014).

DOI: 10.1038/nature12925 
PMID: 24522603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):225-9. doi: 10.1038/nature13025.

The genome of a Late Pleistocene human from a Clovis burial site in western
Montana.

Rasmussen M(1), Anzick SL(2), Waters MR(3), Skoglund P(4), DeGiorgio M(5),
Stafford TW Jr(6), Rasmussen S(7), Moltke I(8), Albrechtsen A(9), Doyle SM(10),
Poznik GD(11), Gudmundsdottir V(7), Yadav R(7), Malaspinas AS(12), White SS
5th(13), Allentoft ME(12), Cornejo OE(14), Tambets K(15), Eriksson A(16),
Heintzman PD(17), Karmin M(15), Korneliussen TS(12), Meltzer DJ(18), Pierre
TL(12), Stenderup J(12), Saag L(15), Warmuth VM(19), Lopes MC(20), Malhi RS(21), 
Brunak S(7), Sicheritz-Ponten T(7), Barnes I(22), Collins M(23), Orlando L(12),
Balloux F(24), Manica A(25), Gupta R(7), Metspalu M(15), Bustamante CD(26),
Jakobsson M(27), Nielsen R(28), Willerslev E(12).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark [2].
(2)1] Anzick Family, 31 Old Clyde Park Road, Livingston, Montana 59047, USA [2].
(3)Center for the Study of the First Americans, Departments of Anthropology and
Geography, Texas A&M University, 4352 TAMU, College Station, Texas 77843-4352,
USA.
(4)Department of Evolutionary Biology, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D, 752 36
Uppsala, Sweden.
(5)1] Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 4134
Valley Life Sciences Building, Berkeley, California 94720, USA [2] Earth Sciences
Department, Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD, UK (I.B.);
Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, 502 Wartik Laboratory,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA (M.D.).
(6)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark [2] AMS 14C Dating 
Centre, Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Aarhus, Ny Munkegade
120, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.
(7)Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, Department of Systems Biology,
Technical University of Denmark, Kemitorvet 208, Kgs. Lyngby DK-2800, Denmark.
(8)1] The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
Ole Maaloes Vej 5, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark [2] Department of Human
Genetics, University of Chicago, 920 E. 58th Street, CLSC 4th floor, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA.
(9)The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
Ole Maaloes Vej 5, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(10)Education Department, Montana State University, Box 5103, Bozeman, Montana
59717, USA.
(11)Program in Biomedical Informatics and Department of Statistics, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(12)Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark.
(13)Anthropology Department, PhD Program, University of Montana, 4100 Mullan
Road, no. 217, Missoula, Montana 59808, USA.
(14)School of Biological Sciences, Washington State University, PO Box 644236,
Eastlick Hall 395, Pullman, Washington 99164, USA.
(15)Department of Evolutionary Biology, Estonian Biocentre and University of
Tartu, Riia 23b, 51010 Tartu, Estonia.
(16)1] Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EJ, UK [2] Integrative Systems Biology Laboratory, King Abdullah University 
of Science and Technology (KAUST), Thuwal 23955-6900, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(17)School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham,
Surrey TW20 0EX, UK.
(18)Department of Anthropology, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas
75275, USA.
(19)1] Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge 
CB2 3EJ, UK [2] Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University
College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(20)Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University College London,
Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
(21)Department of Anthropology and Institute for Genomic Biology, University of
Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 209F Davenport Hall, 607 Matthews Avenue, Urbana,
Illinois 61801, USA.
(22)1] School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London,
Egham, Surrey TW20 0EX, UK [2] Earth Sciences Department, Natural History Museum,
Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD, UK (I.B.); Department of Biology, Pennsylvania
State University, 502 Wartik Laboratory, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA
(M.D.).
(23)BioArCh, Departments of Biology, Archaeology and Chemistry, University of
York, Wentworth Way, York YO10 5DD, UK.
(24)MRC Centre for Outbreak, Analysis and Modelling, Department of Infectious
Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London, Imperial College Faculty of
Medicine, London W2 1PG, UK.
(25)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2
3EJ, UK.
(26)1] Department of Genetics, School of Medicine, Stanford University,
Littlefield Center, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Center for Evolutionary
and Human Genomics, Stanford University, Littlefield Center, Stanford, California
94305, USA.
(27)1] Department of Evolutionary Biology, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D,
752 36 Uppsala, Sweden [2] Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University,
Norbyvägen 18D, 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.
(28)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, 4134
Valley Life Sciences Building, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):162-3.

Clovis, with its distinctive biface, blade and osseous technologies, is the
oldest widespread archaeological complex defined in North America, dating from
11,100 to 10,700 (14)C years before present (bp) (13,000 to 12,600 calendar
years bp). Nearly 50 years of archaeological research point to the Clovis complex
as having developed south of the North American ice sheets from an ancestral
technology. However, both the origins and the genetic legacy of the people who
manufactured Clovis tools remain under debate. It is generally believed that
these people ultimately derived from Asia and were directly related to
contemporary Native Americans. An alternative, Solutrean, hypothesis posits that 
the Clovis predecessors emigrated from southwestern Europe during the Last
Glacial Maximum. Here we report the genome sequence of a male infant (Anzick-1)
recovered from the Anzick burial site in western Montana. The human bones date to
10,705 ± 35 (14)C years bp (approximately 12,707-12,556 calendar years bp) and
were directly associated with Clovis tools. We sequenced the genome to an average
depth of 14.4× and show that the gene flow from the Siberian Upper Palaeolithic
Mal'ta population into Native American ancestors is also shared by the Anzick-1
individual and thus happened before 12,600 years bp. We also show that the
Anzick-1 individual is more closely related to all indigenous American
populations than to any other group. Our data are compatible with the hypothesis 
that Anzick-1 belonged to a population directly ancestral to many contemporary
Native Americans. Finally, we find evidence of a deep divergence in Native
American populations that predates the Anzick-1 individual.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13025 
PMCID: PMC4878442
PMID: 24522598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):200-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12958.

Hysteresis in a quantized superfluid 'atomtronic' circuit.

Eckel S(1), Lee JG(1), Jendrzejewski F(1), Murray N(2), Clark CW(1), Lobb CJ(1), 
Phillips WD(1), Edwards M(2), Campbell GK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Quantum Institute, National Institute of Standards and Technology and
University of Maryland, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, Georgia
30460-8031, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):166-7.

Atomtronics is an emerging interdisciplinary field that seeks to develop new
functional methods by creating devices and circuits where ultracold atoms, often 
superfluids, have a role analogous to that of electrons in electronics.
Hysteresis is widely used in electronic circuits-it is routinely observed in
superconducting circuits and is essential in radio-frequency superconducting
quantum interference devices. Furthermore, it is as fundamental to superfluidity 
(and superconductivity) as quantized persistent currents, critical velocity and
Josephson effects. Nevertheless, despite multiple theoretical predictions,
hysteresis has not been previously observed in any superfluid, atomic-gas
Bose-Einstein condensate. Here we directly detect hysteresis between quantized
circulation states in an atomtronic circuit formed from a ring of superfluid
Bose-Einstein condensate obstructed by a rotating weak link (a region of low
atomic density). This contrasts with previous experiments on superfluid liquid
helium where hysteresis was observed directly in systems in which the
quantization of flow could not be observed, and indirectly in systems that showed
quantized flow. Our techniques allow us to tune the size of the hysteresis loop
and to consider the fundamental excitations that accompany hysteresis. The
results suggest that the relevant excitations involved in hysteresis are
vortices, and indicate that dissipation has an important role in the dynamics.
Controlled hysteresis in atomtronic circuits may prove to be a crucial feature
for the development of practical devices, just as it has in electronic circuits
such as memories, digital noise filters (for example Schmitt triggers) and
magnetometers (for example superconducting quantum interference devices).

DOI: 10.1038/nature12958 
PMID: 24522597 


834. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):171-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12953.

Cold dark matter heats up.

Pontzen A(1), Governato F(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London WC1E
6BT, UK [2] Oxford Astrophysics, Denys Wilkinson Building, Keble Road, Oxford OX1
3RH, UK [3] Balliol College, University of Oxford, Broad Street, Oxford OX1 3BJ, 
UK.
(2)Astronomy Department, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA.

A principal discovery in modern cosmology is that standard model particles
comprise only 5 per cent of the mass-energy budget of the Universe. In the ΛCDM
paradigm, the remaining 95 per cent consists of dark energy (Λ) and cold dark
matter. ΛCDM is being challenged by its apparent inability to explain the
low-density 'cores' of dark matter measured at the centre of galaxies, where
centrally concentrated high-density 'cusps' were predicted. But before drawing
conclusions, it is necessary to include the effect of gas and stars, historically
seen as passive components of galaxies. We now understand that these can inject
heat energy into the cold dark matter through a coupling based on rapid
gravitational potential fluctuations, explaining the observed low central
densities.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12953 
PMID: 24522596 


835. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):197-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12999. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

The observable signature of late heating of the Universe during cosmic
reionization.

Fialkov A(1), Barkana R(2), Visbal E(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel [2] Département de Physique, Ecole Normale
Supérieure, CNRS, 24 rue Lhomond, 75005 Paris, France.
(2)Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.
(3)1] Department of Astronomy, Columbia University, 550 West 120th Street, New
York, New York 10027, USA [2] Jefferson Laboratory of Physics, Harvard
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Institute for Theory and
Computation, Harvard University, 60 Garden Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):163-4.

Models and simulations of the epoch of reionization predict that spectra of the
21-centimetre transition of atomic hydrogen will show a clear fluctuation peak,
at a redshift and scale, respectively, that mark the central stage of
reionization and the characteristic size of ionized bubbles. This is based on the
assumption that the cosmic gas was heated by stellar remnants-particularly X-ray 
binaries-to temperatures well above the cosmic microwave background at that time 
(about 30 kelvin). Here we show instead that the hard spectra (that is, spectra
with more high-energy photons than low-energy photons) of X-ray binaries make
such heating ineffective, resulting in a delayed and spatially uniform heating
that modifies the 21-centimetre signature of reionization. Rather than looking
for a simple rise and fall of the large-scale fluctuations (peaking at several
millikelvin), we must expect a more complex signal also featuring a distinct
minimum (at less than a millikelvin) that marks the rise of the cosmic mean gas
temperature above the microwave background. Observing this signal, possibly with 
radio telescopes in operation today, will demonstrate the presence of a cosmic
background of hard X-rays at that early time.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12999 
PMID: 24499820 


836. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):216-20. doi: 10.1038/nature13022. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Global conservation outcomes depend on marine protected areas with five key
features.

Edgar GJ(1), Stuart-Smith RD(1), Willis TJ(2), Kininmonth S(3), Baker SC(4),
Banks S(5), Barrett NS(1), Becerro MA(6), Bernard AT(7), Berkhout J(1), Buxton
CD(1), Campbell SJ(8), Cooper AT(1), Davey M(1), Edgar SC(9), Försterra G(10),
Galván DE(11), Irigoyen AJ(11), Kushner DJ(12), Moura R(13), Parnell PE(14),
Shears NT(15), Soler G(1), Strain EM(16), Thomson RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, University of Tasmania, GPO Box
252-49, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia.
(2)Institute of Marine Sciences, School of Biological Sciences, University of
Portsmouth, Ferry Road, Portsmouth PO4 9LY, UK.
(3)1] Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, University of Tasmania, GPO Box
252-49, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia [2] Stockholm Resilience Centre,
Stockholm University, Kräftriket 2B, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)School of Plant Science, University of Tasmania, GPO Box 252, Hobart, Tasmania
7001, Australia.
(5)Charles Darwin Foundation, Puerto Ayora, Galapagos, Ecuador.
(6)The Bites Lab, Natural Products and Agrobiology Institute (IPNA-CSIC), 38206
La Laguna, Tenerife, Spain.
(7)Elwandle Node, South African Environmental Observation network, Private Bag
1015, Grahamstown 6140, South Africa.
(8)Wildlife Conservation Society, Indonesia Marine Program, Jalan Atletik No. 8, 
Bogor Jawa Barat 16151, Indonesia.
(9)Department of Water, Perth, Western Australia 6000, Australia.
(10)Facultad de Recursos Naturales, Escuela de Ciencias del Mar, Pontificia
Universidad Catolica de Valparaıso, Valparaıso, Chile.
(11)Centro Nacional Patagonico, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y
Tecnicas, Bvd Brown 2915, 9120 Puerto Madryn, Argentina.
(12)Channel Islands National Park, United States National Park Service, 1901
Spinnaker Dr., Ventura, California 93001, USA.
(13)Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Av. Carlos
Chagas Filho 373, Rio de Janeiro 21941-902, Brazil.
(14)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, UC San Diego, Mail Code 0227, 9500
Gilman Dr., La Jolla, California 92093-0227, USA.
(15)Leigh Marine Laboratory, University of Auckland, 160 Goat Island Road, Leigh 
0985, New Zealand.
(16)Dipartimento di Scienze Biologiche, Geologiche ed Ambientali, Università di
Bologna, Via San Alberto, Ravenna 163-48123, Italy.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):167-8.

In line with global targets agreed under the Convention on Biological Diversity, 
the number of marine protected areas (MPAs) is increasing rapidly, yet
socio-economic benefits generated by MPAs remain difficult to predict and under
debate. MPAs often fail to reach their full potential as a consequence of factors
such as illegal harvesting, regulations that legally allow detrimental
harvesting, or emigration of animals outside boundaries because of continuous
habitat or inadequate size of reserve. Here we show that the conservation
benefits of 87 MPAs investigated worldwide increase exponentially with the
accumulation of five key features: no take, well enforced, old (>10 years), large
(>100 km(2)), and isolated by deep water or sand. Using effective MPAs with four 
or five key features as an unfished standard, comparisons of underwater survey
data from effective MPAs with predictions based on survey data from fished coasts
indicate that total fish biomass has declined about two-thirds from historical
baselines as a result of fishing. Effective MPAs also had twice as many large
(>250 mm total length) fish species per transect, five times more large fish
biomass, and fourteen times more shark biomass than fished areas. Most (59%) of
the MPAs studied had only one or two key features and were not ecologically
distinguishable from fished sites. Our results show that global conservation
targets based on area alone will not optimize protection of marine biodiversity. 
More emphasis is needed on better MPA design, durable management and compliance
to ensure that MPAs achieve their desired conservation value.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13022 
PMID: 24499817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):221-4. doi: 10.1038/nature13006. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Amazon forests maintain consistent canopy structure and greenness during the dry 
season.

Morton DC(1), Nagol J(2), Carabajal CC(3), Rosette J(4), Palace M(5), Cook BD(1),
Vermote EF(1), Harding DJ(1), North PR(6).

Author information: 
(1)NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA.
(2)1] University of Maryland, College Park, Department of Geographical Sciences, 
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA [2] Global Land Cover Facility, College Park,
Maryland 20740, USA.
(3)1] NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA [2] Sigma 
Space Corporation, Lantham, Maryland 20706, USA.
(4)1] NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771, USA [2]
University of Maryland, College Park, Department of Geographical Sciences,
College Park, Maryland 20742, USA [3] Swansea University, Department of
Geography, Singleton Park, Swansea SA2 8PP, UK.
(5)Earth System Research Center, University of New Hampshire, Durham, New
Hampshire 03824, USA.
(6)Swansea University, Department of Geography, Singleton Park, Swansea SA2 8PP, 
UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):6.
    Nature. 2016 Mar 17;531(7594):E6.
    Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):165-6.
    Nature. 2016 Mar 17;531(7594):E4-5.

The seasonality of sunlight and rainfall regulates net primary production in
tropical forests. Previous studies have suggested that light is more limiting
than water for tropical forest productivity, consistent with greening of Amazon
forests during the dry season in satellite data. We evaluated four potential
mechanisms for the seasonal green-up phenomenon, including increases in leaf area
or leaf reflectance, using a sophisticated radiative transfer model and
independent satellite observations from lidar and optical sensors. Here we show
that the apparent green up of Amazon forests in optical remote sensing data
resulted from seasonal changes in near-infrared reflectance, an artefact of
variations in sun-sensor geometry. Correcting this bidirectional reflectance
effect eliminated seasonal changes in surface reflectance, consistent with
independent lidar observations and model simulations with unchanging canopy
properties. The stability of Amazon forest structure and reflectance over
seasonal timescales challenges the paradigm of light-limited net primary
production in Amazon forests and enhanced forest growth during drought
conditions. Correcting optical remote sensing data for artefacts of sun-sensor
geometry is essential to isolate the response of global vegetation to seasonal
and interannual climate variability.

DOI: 10.1038/nature13006 
PMID: 24499816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):208-11. doi: 10.1038/nature12938. Epub 2014 Feb 2.

Mosaic two-lengthscale quasicrystals.

Dotera T(1), Oshiro T(1), Ziherl P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Kinki University, 3-4-1 Kowakae, Higashi-Osaka
577-8502, Japan.
(2)1] Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, University of Ljubljana, Jadranska 19, 
SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia [2] Jožef Stefan Institute, Jamova 39, SI-1000
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Over the past decade, quasicrystalline order has been observed in many
soft-matter systems: in dendritic micelles, in star and tetrablock terpolymer
melts and in diblock copolymer and surfactant micelles. The formation of
quasicrystals from such a broad range of 'soft' macromolecular micelles suggests 
that they assemble by a generic mechanism rather than being dependent on the
specific chemistry of each system. Indeed, micellar softness has been postulated 
and shown to lead to quasicrystalline order. Here we theoretically explore this
link by studying two-dimensional hard disks decorated with step-like
square-shoulder repulsion that mimics, for example, the soft alkyl shell around
the aromatic core in dendritic micelles. We find a family of quasicrystals with
10-, 12-, 18- and 24-fold bond orientational order which originate from mosaics
of equilateral and isosceles triangles formed by particles arranged core-to-core 
and shoulder-to-shoulder. The pair interaction responsible for these phases
highlights the role of local packing geometry in generating quasicrystallinity in
soft matter, complementing the principles that lead to quasicrystal formation in 
hard tetrahedra. Based on simple interparticle potentials, quasicrystalline
mosaics may well find use in diverse applications ranging from improved image
reproduction to advanced photonic materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12938 
PMID: 24487618 


839. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):204-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12919.

Quantum error correction in a solid-state hybrid spin register.

Waldherr G(1), Wang Y(1), Zaiser S(2), Jamali M(2), Schulte-Herbrüggen T(3), Abe 
H(4), Ohshima T(4), Isoya J(5), Du JF(6), Neumann P(2), Wrachtrup J(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] 3. Physikalisches Institut and Research Center SCOPE, University of
Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany [2].
(2)3. Physikalisches Institut and Research Center SCOPE, University of Stuttgart,
Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Technical University of Munich, 85747 Garching,
Germany.
(4)Japan Atomic Energy Agency, Takasaki, Gunma 370-1292, Japan.
(5)Research Center for Knowledge Communities, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-8550, Japan.
(6)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale and
Department of Modern Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei 230026, China.
(7)1] 3. Physikalisches Institut and Research Center SCOPE, University of
Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany [2] Max Planck Institute 
for Solid State Research, Heisenbergstraße 1, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Nanotechnol. 2014 Mar;9(3):167-9.

Error correction is important in classical and quantum computation. Decoherence
caused by the inevitable interaction of quantum bits with their environment leads
to dephasing or even relaxation. Correction of the concomitant errors is
therefore a fundamental requirement for scalable quantum computation. Although
algorithms for error correction have been known for some time, experimental
realizations are scarce. Here we show quantum error correction in a
heterogeneous, solid-state spin system. We demonstrate that joint initialization,
projective readout and fast local and non-local gate operations can all be
achieved in diamond spin systems, even under ambient conditions. High-fidelity
initialization of a whole spin register (99 per cent) and single-shot readout of 
multiple individual nuclear spins are achieved by using the ancillary electron
spin of a nitrogen-vacancy defect. Implementation of a novel non-local gate
generic to our electron-nuclear quantum register allows the preparation of
entangled states of three nuclear spins, with fidelities exceeding 85 per cent.
With these techniques, we demonstrate three-qubit phase-flip error correction.
Using optimal control, all of the above operations achieve fidelities approaching
those needed for fault-tolerant quantum operation, thus paving the way to
large-scale quantum computation. Besides their use with diamond spin systems, our
techniques can be used to improve scaling of quantum networks relying on
phosphorus in silicon, quantum dots, silicon carbide or rare-earth ions in
solids.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12919 
PMID: 24476818 


840. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):212-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12915. Epub 2014 Jan 26.

A two-fold increase of carbon cycle sensitivity to tropical temperature
variations.

Wang X(1), Piao S(2), Ciais P(3), Friedlingstein P(4), Myneni RB(5), Cox P(4),
Heimann M(6), Miller J(7), Peng S(1), Wang T(3), Yang H(1), Chen A(8).

Author information: 
(1)Sino-French Institute for Earth System Science, College of Urban and
Environmental Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
(2)1] Sino-French Institute for Earth System Science, College of Urban and
Environmental Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2] Institute of
Tibetan Plateau Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100085, China.
(3)1] Sino-French Institute for Earth System Science, College of Urban and
Environmental Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2] Laboratoire 
des Sciences du Climat et de l'Environnement, CEA CNRS UVSQ, 91191
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.
(4)College of Engineering, Mathematics, and Physical Sciences, University of
Exeter, Exeter EX4 4QF, UK.
(5)Department of Earth and Environment, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 
02215, USA.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, 07701 Jena, Germany.
(7)1] Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 325 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80305,
USA [2] Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University 
of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(8)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544-1003, USA.

Earth system models project that the tropical land carbon sink will decrease in
size in response to an increase in warming and drought during this century,
probably causing a positive climate feedback. But available data are too limited 
at present to test the predicted changes in the tropical carbon balance in
response to climate change. Long-term atmospheric carbon dioxide data provide a
global record that integrates the interannual variability of the global carbon
balance. Multiple lines of evidence demonstrate that most of this variability
originates in the terrestrial biosphere. In particular, the year-to-year
variations in the atmospheric carbon dioxide growth rate (CGR) are thought to be 
the result of fluctuations in the carbon fluxes of tropical land areas. Recently,
the response of CGR to tropical climate interannual variability was used to put a
constraint on the sensitivity of tropical land carbon to climate change. Here we 
use the long-term CGR record from Mauna Loa and the South Pole to show that the
sensitivity of CGR to tropical temperature interannual variability has increased 
by a factor of 1.9 ± 0.3 in the past five decades. We find that this sensitivity 
was greater when tropical land regions experienced drier conditions. This
suggests that the sensitivity of CGR to interannual temperature variations is
regulated by moisture conditions, even though the direct correlation between CGR 
and tropical precipitation is weak. We also find that present terrestrial carbon 
cycle models do not capture the observed enhancement in CGR sensitivity in the
past five decades. More realistic model predictions of future carbon cycle and
climate feedbacks require a better understanding of the processes driving the
response of tropical ecosystems to drought and warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12915 
PMID: 24463514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):185-90. doi: 10.1038/nature12975. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

A polygenic burden of rare disruptive mutations in schizophrenia.

Purcell SM(1), Moran JL(2), Fromer M(3), Ruderfer D(4), Solovieff N(5), Roussos
P(6), O'Dushlaine C(7), Chambert K(7), Bergen SE(8), Kähler A(9), Duncan L(10),
Stahl E(6), Genovese G(7), Fernández E(11), Collins MO(12), Komiyama NH(12),
Choudhary JS(12), Magnusson PK(9), Banks E(13), Shakir K(13), Garimella K(13),
Fennell T(13), DePristo M(13), Grant SG(14), Haggarty SJ(15), Gabriel S(13),
Scolnick EM(7), Lander ES(13), Hultman CM(9), Sullivan PF(16), McCarroll SA(17), 
Sklar P(18).

Author information: 
(1)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Division of Psychiatric
Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York 10029, USA [3] Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology,
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [4]
Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental
Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA
[5] Medical and Population Genetics Program, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2].
(3)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Division of Psychiatric
Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, New York 10029, USA [3] Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology,
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [4]
Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental
Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA
[5].
(4)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Institute for Genomics
and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New
York 10029, USA [3].
(5)Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental
Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(6)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Institute for Genomics
and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New
York 10029, USA.
(7)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(8)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Department of Medical
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm SE-171 77,
Sweden.
(9)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet,
Stockholm SE-171 77, Sweden.
(10)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Analytic and Translational
Genetics Unit, Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [3] Medical and Population
Genetics Program, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.
(11)1] Center for Human Genetics, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium [2] VIB Center 
for Biology of Disease, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
(12)Proteomic Mass Spectrometry, The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Cambridge
CB10 1SA, UK.
(13)Medical and Population Genetics Program, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(14)Genes to Cognition Programme, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences and Centre
for Neuroregeneration, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.
(15)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Analytic and Translational
Genetics Unit, Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Unit, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [3] Department of Neurology,
Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts
02114, USA.
(16)Departments of Genetics and Psychiatry, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina 27599-7264, USA.
(17)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Medical and Population Genetics 
Program, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA 
[3] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.
(18)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Institute for
Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, New York 10029, USA [3] Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Aug 18;24(16):R755-7.

Schizophrenia is a common disease with a complex aetiology, probably involving
multiple and heterogeneous genetic factors. Here, by analysing the exome
sequences of 2,536 schizophrenia cases and 2,543 controls, we demonstrate a
polygenic burden primarily arising from rare (less than 1 in 10,000), disruptive 
mutations distributed across many genes. Particularly enriched gene sets include 
the voltage-gated calcium ion channel and the signalling complex formed by the
activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated scaffold protein (ARC) of the
postsynaptic density, sets previously implicated by genome-wide association and
copy-number variation studies. Similar to reports in autism, targets of the
fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP, product of FMR1) are enriched for
case mutations. No individual gene-based test achieves significance after
correction for multiple testing and we do not detect any alleles of moderately
low frequency (approximately 0.5 to 1 per cent) and moderately large effect.
Taken together, these data suggest that population-based exome sequencing can
discover risk alleles and complements established gene-mapping paradigms in
neuropsychiatric disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12975 
PMCID: PMC4136494
PMID: 24463508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):179-84. doi: 10.1038/nature12929. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

De novo mutations in schizophrenia implicate synaptic networks.

Fromer M(1), Pocklington AJ(2), Kavanagh DH(2), Williams HJ(2), Dwyer S(2),
Gormley P(3), Georgieva L(2), Rees E(2), Palta P(4), Ruderfer DM(5), Carrera
N(2), Humphreys I(2), Johnson JS(6), Roussos P(6), Barker DD(7), Banks E(8),
Milanova V(9), Grant SG(10), Hannon E(2), Rose SA(7), Chambert K(7), Mahajan
M(6), Scolnick EM(7), Moran JL(7), Kirov G(2), Palotie A(11), McCarroll SA(12),
Holmans P(2), Sklar P(13), Owen MJ(2), Purcell SM(14), O'Donovan MC(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics in the Department of Psychiatry, and
Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research,
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)Medical Research Council Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics,
Institute of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, Cardiff
University, Cardiff CF24 4HQ, UK.
(3)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10
1SA, UK [2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT
and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(4)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton CB10
1SA, UK [2] Department of Bioinformatics, Institute of Molecular and Cell
Biology, University of Tartu, 51010 Tartu, Estonia [3] Institute for Molecular
Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, 00290 Helsinki, Finland.
(5)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics in the Department of Psychiatry, and
Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Medical Research Council Centre for
Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Institute of Psychological Medicine and
Clinical Neurosciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF24 4HQ, UK.
(6)Division of Psychiatric Genomics in the Department of Psychiatry, and
Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(7)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(8)Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University, Sofia 1431, Bulgaria.
(10)Centre for Neuroregeneration, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH16 4SB,
UK.
(11)1] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton
CB10 1SA, UK [2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of
MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3] Institute for Molecular 
Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, 00290 Helsinki, Finland.
(12)1] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Program in Medical and
Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA [3] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(13)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics in the Department of Psychiatry, and
Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(14)1] Division of Psychiatric Genomics in the Department of Psychiatry, and
Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research,
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [3]
Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Psychiatric and Neurodevelopmental
Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Inherited alleles account for most of the genetic risk for schizophrenia.
However, new (de novo) mutations, in the form of large chromosomal copy number
changes, occur in a small fraction of cases and disproportionally disrupt genes
encoding postsynaptic proteins. Here we show that small de novo mutations,
affecting one or a few nucleotides, are overrepresented among glutamatergic
postsynaptic proteins comprising activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated
protein (ARC) and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) complexes. Mutations are 
additionally enriched in proteins that interact with these complexes to modulate 
synaptic strength, namely proteins regulating actin filament dynamics and those
whose messenger RNAs are targets of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). 
Genes affected by mutations in schizophrenia overlap those mutated in autism and 
intellectual disability, as do mutation-enriched synaptic pathways. Aligning our 
findings with a parallel case-control study, we demonstrate reproducible insights
into aetiological mechanisms for schizophrenia and reveal pathophysiology shared 
with other neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12929 
PMCID: PMC4237002
PMID: 24463507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):240-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12883. Epub 2014 Jan 15.

Leukaemogenesis induced by an activating β-catenin mutation in osteoblasts.

Kode A(1), Manavalan JS(1), Mosialou I(1), Bhagat G(2), Rathinam CV(3), Luo N(1),
Khiabanian H(4), Lee A(4), Murty VV(5), Friedman R(6), Brum A(7), Park D(8),
Galili N(9), Mukherjee S(10), Teruya-Feldstein J(8), Raza A(9), Rabadan R(4),
Berman E(11), Kousteni S(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, College of Physicians &
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, College of Physicians & Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(3)Department of Genetics and Development College of Physicians & Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Informatics and Center for Computational Biology and 
Bioinformatics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology & Institute for Cancer Genetics Irving Cancer Research
Center, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(6)Biomedical Informatics Shared Resource, Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer
Center and Department of Biomedical Informatics, College of Physicians &
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(7)1] Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, College of Physicians & 
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of
Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC, Dr. Molewaterplein 50, NL-3015 GE Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.
(8)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York 10021, USA.
(9)Myelodysplastic Syndromes Center, Columbia University New York, New York
10032, USA.
(10)Departments of Medicine Hematology & Oncology Columbia University New York,
New York 10032, USA.
(11)Leukemia Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, New York 10021, USA.
(12)1] Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, College of Physicians &
Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] Department of
Physiology & Cellular Biophysics, College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Apr;24(4):383-4.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Mar;14(3):154-5.

Cells of the osteoblast lineage affect the homing and the number of long-term
repopulating haematopoietic stem cells, haematopoietic stem cell mobilization and
lineage determination and B cell lymphopoiesis. Osteoblasts were recently
implicated in pre-leukaemic conditions in mice. However, a single genetic change 
in osteoblasts that can induce leukaemogenesis has not been shown. Here we show
that an activating mutation of β-catenin in mouse osteoblasts alters the
differentiation potential of myeloid and lymphoid progenitors leading to
development of acute myeloid leukaemia with common chromosomal aberrations and
cell autonomous progression. Activated β-catenin stimulates expression of the
Notch ligand jagged 1 in osteoblasts. Subsequent activation of Notch signalling
in haematopoietic stem cell progenitors induces the malignant changes. Genetic or
pharmacological inhibition of Notch signalling ameliorates acute myeloid
leukaemia and demonstrates the pathogenic role of the Notch pathway. In 38% of
patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukaemia, increased
β-catenin signalling and nuclear accumulation was identified in osteoblasts and
these patients showed increased Notch signalling in haematopoietic cells. These
findings demonstrate that genetic alterations in osteoblasts can induce acute
myeloid leukaemia, identify molecular signals leading to this transformation and 
suggest a potential novel pharmacotherapeutic approach to acute myeloid
leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12883 
PMCID: PMC4116754
PMID: 24429522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):191-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12944. Epub 2014 Jan 12.

Molecular control of δ-opioid receptor signalling.

Fenalti G(1), Giguere PM(2), Katritch V(3), Huang XP(4), Thompson AA(3), Cherezov
V(3), Roth BL(4), Stevens RC(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA [2].
(2)1] National Institute of Mental Health Psychoactive Drug Screening Program and
Department of Pharmacology and Division of Chemical Biology and Medicinal
Chemistry, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill Medical School, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina 27599, USA [2].
(3)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA.
(4)National Institute of Mental Health Psychoactive Drug Screening Program and
Department of Pharmacology and Division of Chemical Biology and Medicinal
Chemistry, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill Medical School, Chapel Hill, 
North Carolina 27599, USA.

Opioids represent widely prescribed and abused medications, although their signal
transduction mechanisms are not well understood. Here we present the 1.8 Å
high-resolution crystal structure of the human δ-opioid receptor (δ-OR),
revealing the presence and fundamental role of a sodium ion in mediating
allosteric control of receptor functional selectivity and constitutive activity. 
The distinctive δ-OR sodium ion site architecture is centrally located in a polar
interaction network in the seven-transmembrane bundle core, with the sodium ion
stabilizing a reduced agonist affinity state, and thereby modulating signal
transduction. Site-directed mutagenesis and functional studies reveal that
changing the allosteric sodium site residue Asn 131 to an alanine or a valine
augments constitutive β-arrestin-mediated signalling. Asp95Ala, Asn310Ala and
Asn314Ala mutations transform classical δ-opioid antagonists such as naltrindole 
into potent β-arrestin-biased agonists. The data establish the molecular basis
for allosteric sodium ion control in opioid signalling, revealing that
sodium-coordinating residues act as 'efficacy switches' at a prototypic
G-protein-coupled receptor.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12944 
PMCID: PMC3931418
PMID: 24413399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):230-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12880. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Intranasal epidermal growth factor treatment rescues neonatal brain injury.

Scafidi J(1), Hammond TR(2), Scafidi S(3), Ritter J(4), Jablonska B(4), Roncal
M(4), Szigeti-Buck K(5), Coman D(6), Huang Y(6), McCarter RJ Jr(7), Hyder F(6),
Horvath TL(5), Gallo V(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Neuroscience Research, Children's National Medical Center,
Washington DC 20010, USA [2] Department of Neurology, Children's National Medical
Center, Washington DC 20010, USA.
(2)1] Center for Neuroscience Research, Children's National Medical Center,
Washington DC 20010, USA [2] Institute for Biomedical Sciences, The George
Washington University, Washington DC 20052, USA.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology & Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA.
(4)Center for Neuroscience Research, Children's National Medical Center,
Washington DC 20010, USA.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520,
USA.
(6)MRRC, Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.
(7)Center for Translational Science, Children's National Medical Center,
Washington DC 20010, USA.

There are no clinically relevant treatments available that improve function in
the growing population of very preterm infants (less than 32 weeks' gestation)
with neonatal brain injury. Diffuse white matter injury (DWMI) is a common
finding in these children and results in chronic neurodevelopmental impairments. 
As shown recently, failure in oligodendrocyte progenitor cell maturation
contributes to DWMI. We demonstrated previously that the epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR) has an important role in oligodendrocyte development. Here we
examine whether enhanced EGFR signalling stimulates the endogenous response of
EGFR-expressing progenitor cells during a critical period after brain injury, and
promotes cellular and behavioural recovery in the developing brain. Using an
established mouse model of very preterm brain injury, we demonstrate that
selective overexpression of human EGFR in oligodendrocyte lineage cells or the
administration of intranasal heparin-binding EGF immediately after injury
decreases oligodendroglia death, enhances generation of new oligodendrocytes from
progenitor cells and promotes functional recovery. Furthermore, these
interventions diminish ultrastructural abnormalities and alleviate behavioural
deficits on white-matter-specific paradigms. Inhibition of EGFR signalling with a
molecularly targeted agent used for cancer therapy demonstrates that EGFR
activation is an important contributor to oligodendrocyte regeneration and
functional recovery after DWMI. Thus, our study provides direct evidence that
targeting EGFR in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells at a specific time after
injury is clinically feasible and potentially applicable to the treatment of
premature children with white matter injury.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12880 
PMCID: PMC4106485
PMID: 24390343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):249-53. doi: 10.1038/nature12868. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

RecA bundles mediate homology pairing between distant sisters during DNA break
repair.

Lesterlin C(1), Ball G(1), Schermelleh L(1), Sherratt DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QU, UK.

DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair by homologous recombination has evolved to
maintain genetic integrity in all organisms. Although many reactions that occur
during homologous recombination are known, it is unclear where, when and how they
occur in cells. Here, by using conventional and super-resolution microscopy, we
describe the progression of DSB repair in live Escherichia coli. Specifically, we
investigate whether homologous recombination can occur efficiently between
distant sister loci that have segregated to opposite halves of an E. coli cell.
We show that a site-specific DSB in one sister can be repaired efficiently using 
distant sister homology. After RecBCD processing of the DSB, RecA is recruited to
the cut locus, where it nucleates into a bundle that contains many more RecA
molecules than can associate with the two single-stranded DNA regions that form
at the DSB. Mature bundles extend along the long axis of the cell, in the space
between the bulk nucleoid and the inner membrane. Bundle formation is followed by
pairing, in which the two ends of the cut locus relocate at the periphery of the 
nucleoid and together move rapidly towards the homology of the uncut sister.
After sister locus pairing, RecA bundles disassemble and proteins that act late
in homologous recombination are recruited to give viable recombinants
1-2-generation-time equivalents after formation of the initial DSB. Mutated RecA 
proteins that do not form bundles are defective in sister pairing and in
DSB-induced repair. This work reveals an unanticipated role of RecA bundles in
channelling the movement of the DNA DSB ends, thereby facilitating the long-range
homology search that occurs before the strand invasion and transfer reactions.


PMCID: PMC3925069
PMID: 24362571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):245-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12869. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

RNA viruses can hijack vertebrate microRNAs to suppress innate immunity.

Trobaugh DW(1), Gardner CL(1), Sun C(1), Haddow AD(2), Wang E(2), Chapnik E(3),
Mildner A(4), Weaver SC(2), Ryman KD(1), Klimstra WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Vaccine Research and Department of Microbiology and Molecular
Genetics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA.
(2)Institute for Human Infections and Immunity, Center for Biodefense and
Emerging Infectious Diseases, and Department of Pathology, University of Texas
Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
7610001, Israel.
(4)Department of Immunology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 7610001,
Israel.

Currently, there is little evidence for a notable role of the vertebrate microRNA
(miRNA) system in the pathogenesis of RNA viruses. This is primarily attributed
to the ease with which these viruses mutate to disrupt recognition and growth
suppression by host miRNAs. Here we report that the haematopoietic-cell-specific 
miRNA miR-142-3p potently restricts the replication of the mosquito-borne North
American eastern equine encephalitis virus in myeloid-lineage cells by binding to
sites in the 3' non-translated region of its RNA genome. However, by limiting
myeloid cell tropism and consequent innate immunity induction, this restriction
directly promotes neurologic disease manifestations characteristic of eastern
equine encephalitis virus infection in humans. Furthermore, the region containing
the miR-142-3p binding sites is essential for efficient virus infection of
mosquito vectors. We propose that RNA viruses can adapt to use antiviral
properties of vertebrate miRNAs to limit replication in particular cell types and
that this restriction can lead to exacerbation of disease severity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12869 
PMCID: PMC4349380
PMID: 24352241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Nature. 2014 Feb 13;506(7487):235-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12885. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

C/EBPα poises B cells for rapid reprogramming into induced pluripotent stem
cells.

Di Stefano B(1), Sardina JL(2), van Oevelen C(2), Collombet S(3), Kallin EM(4),
Vicent GP(1), Lu J(5), Thieffry D(3), Beato M(1), Graf T(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Gene Regulation, Stem Cells and Cancer Programme, Centre for Genomic
Regulation (CRG), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu
Fabra (UPF), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)1] Gene Regulation, Stem Cells and Cancer Programme, Centre for Genomic
Regulation (CRG), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu
Fabra (UPF), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [3].
(3)1] Ecole Normale Supérieure, Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, 45 Rue d'Ulm,
Paris F-75005, France [2] Inserm, U1024, Paris F-75005, France [3] CNRS, UMR
8197, Paris F-75005, France.
(4)1] Gene Regulation, Stem Cells and Cancer Programme, Centre for Genomic
Regulation (CRG), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu
Fabra (UPF), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [3] Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York 10065, USA.
(5)Yale Cancer Center, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.
(6)1] Gene Regulation, Stem Cells and Cancer Programme, Centre for Genomic
Regulation (CRG), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu
Fabra (UPF), Dr Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [3] Institució Catalana de
Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Pg Lluis Companys 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain.

CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-α (C/EBPα) induces transdifferentiation of B cells
into macrophages at high efficiencies and enhances reprogramming into induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells when co-expressed with the transcription factors
Oct4 (Pou5f1), Sox2, Klf4 and Myc (hereafter called OSKM). However, how C/EBPα
accomplishes these effects is unclear. Here we find that in mouse primary B cells
transient C/EBPα expression followed by OSKM activation induces a 100-fold
increase in iPS cell reprogramming efficiency, involving 95% of the population.
During this conversion, pluripotency and epithelial-mesenchymal transition genes 
become markedly upregulated, and 60% of the cells express Oct4 within 2 days.
C/EBPα acts as a 'path-breaker' as it transiently makes the chromatin of
pluripotency genes more accessible to DNase I. C/EBPα also induces the expression
of the dioxygenase Tet2 and promotes its translocation to the nucleus where it
binds to regulatory regions of pluripotency genes that become demethylated after 
OSKM induction. In line with these findings, overexpression of Tet2 enhances
OSKM-induced B-cell reprogramming. Because the enzyme is also required for
efficient C/EBPα-induced immune cell conversion, our data indicate that Tet2
provides a mechanistic link between iPS cell reprogramming and B-cell
transdifferentiation. The rapid iPS reprogramming approach described here should 
help to fully elucidate the process and has potential clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12885 
PMID: 24336202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):107-10. doi: 10.1038/nature12950.

Structures of the Sec61 complex engaged in nascent peptide translocation or
membrane insertion.

Gogala M(1), Becker T(1), Beatrix B(1), Armache JP(1), Barrio-Garcia C(1),
Berninghausen O(1), Beckmann R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gene Center and Center for integrated Protein Science Munich, Department of
Biochemistry, Feodor-Lynen-Strasse 25, University of Munich, 81377 Munich,
Germany.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Apr 14;24(8):R317-9.

The biogenesis of secretory as well as transmembrane proteins requires the
activity of the universally conserved protein-conducting channel (PCC), the Sec61
complex (SecY complex in bacteria). In eukaryotic cells the PCC is located in the
membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum where it can bind to translating ribosomes 
for co-translational protein transport. The Sec complex consists of three
subunits (Sec61α, β and γ) and provides an aqueous environment for the
translocation of hydrophilic peptides as well as a lateral opening in the Sec61α 
subunit that has been proposed to act as a gate for the membrane partitioning of 
hydrophobic domains. A plug helix and a so-called pore ring are believed to seal 
the PCC against ion flow and are proposed to rearrange for accommodation of
translocating peptides. Several crystal and cryo-electron microscopy structures
revealed different conformations of closed and partially open Sec61 and SecY
complexes. However, in none of these samples has the translocation state been
unambiguously defined biochemically. Here we present cryo-electron microscopy
structures of ribosome-bound Sec61 complexes engaged in translocation or membrane
insertion of nascent peptides. Our data show that a hydrophilic peptide can
translocate through the Sec complex with an essentially closed lateral gate and
an only slightly rearranged central channel. Membrane insertion of a hydrophobic 
domain seems to occur with the Sec complex opening the proposed lateral gate
while rearranging the plug to maintain an ion permeability barrier. Taken
together, we provide a structural model for the basic activities of the Sec61
complex as a protein-conducting channel.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12950 
PMID: 24499919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):76-80. doi: 10.1038/nature12957.

Drought sensitivity of Amazonian carbon balance revealed by atmospheric
measurements.

Gatti LV(1), Gloor M(2), Miller JB(3), Doughty CE(4), Malhi Y(4), Domingues
LG(5), Basso LS(5), Martinewski A(5), Correia CS(5), Borges VF(5), Freitas S(6), 
Braz R(6), Anderson LO(7), Rocha H(8), Grace J(9), Phillips OL(10), Lloyd J(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Instituto de Pesquisas Energéticas e Nucleares (IPEN)-Comissao Nacional de 
Energia Nuclear (CNEN)-Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratory, 2242 Avenida Professor
Lineu Prestes, Cidade Universitaria, Sao Paulo CEP 05508-000, Brazil [2].
(2)1] School of Geography, University of Leeds, Woodhouse Lane, Leeds LS9 2JT, UK
[2].
(3)1] Global Monitoring Division, Earth System Research Laboratory, National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 325 Broadway, Boulder, Colorado 80305,
USA [2] Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES),
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [3].
(4)Environmental Change Institute, School of Geography and the Environment,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK.
(5)Instituto de Pesquisas Energéticas e Nucleares (IPEN)-Comissao Nacional de
Energia Nuclear (CNEN)-Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratory, 2242 Avenida Professor
Lineu Prestes, Cidade Universitaria, Sao Paulo CEP 05508-000, Brazil.
(6)Center for Weather Forecasts and Climate Studies, Instituto Nacional de
Pesquisas Espaciais (INPE), Rodovia Dutra, km 39, Cachoeira Paulista CEP
12630-000, Brazil.
(7)1] Environmental Change Institute, School of Geography and the Environment,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QY, UK [2] Remote Sensing
Division, INPE (National Institute for Space Research), 1758 Avenida dos
Astronautas, São José dos Campos CEP 12227-010, Brazil.
(8)Departamento de Ciencias Atmosfericas/Instituto de Astronomia e Geofisica
(IAG)/Universidade de Sao Paulo, 1226 Rua do Matao, Cidade Universitaria, Sao
Paulo CEP 05508-090, Brazil.
(9)Crew Building, The King's Buildings, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JN, UK.
(10)School of Geography, University of Leeds, Woodhouse Lane, Leeds LS9 2JT, UK.
(11)1] School of Tropical and Marine Biology and Centre for Terrestrial
Environmental and Sustainability Sciences, James Cook University, Cairns 4870,
Queensland, Australia [2] Imperial College London, Silwood Park Campus, Buckhurst
Road, Ascot SL5 7PY, Berkshire, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):6.
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):41-2.

Feedbacks between land carbon pools and climate provide one of the largest
sources of uncertainty in our predictions of global climate. Estimates of the
sensitivity of the terrestrial carbon budget to climate anomalies in the tropics 
and the identification of the mechanisms responsible for feedback effects remain 
uncertain. The Amazon basin stores a vast amount of carbon, and has experienced
increasingly higher temperatures and more frequent floods and droughts over the
past two decades. Here we report seasonal and annual carbon balances across the
Amazon basin, based on carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide measurements for the
anomalously dry and wet years 2010 and 2011, respectively. We find that the
Amazon basin lost 0.48 ± 0.18 petagrams of carbon per year (Pg C yr(-1)) during
the dry year but was carbon neutral (0.06 ± 0.1 Pg C yr(-1)) during the wet year.
Taking into account carbon losses from fire by using carbon monoxide
measurements, we derived the basin net biome exchange (that is, the carbon flux
between the non-burned forest and the atmosphere) revealing that during the dry
year, vegetation was carbon neutral. During the wet year, vegetation was a net
carbon sink of 0.25 ± 0.14 Pg C yr(-1), which is roughly consistent with the mean
long-term intact-forest biomass sink of 0.39 ± 0.10 Pg C yr(-1) previously
estimated from forest censuses. Observations from Amazonian forest plots suggest 
the suppression of photosynthesis during drought as the primary cause for the
2010 sink neutralization. Overall, our results suggest that moisture has an
important role in determining the Amazonian carbon balance. If the recent trend
of increasing precipitation extremes persists, the Amazon may become an
increasing carbon source as a result of both emissions from fires and the
suppression of net biome exchange by drought.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12957 
PMID: 24499918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):67-70. doi: 10.1038/nature12964.

Measurement of parity violation in electron-quark scattering.

Jefferson Lab PVDIS Collaboration.

Collaborators: Wang D, Pan K, Subedi R, Deng X, Ahmed Z, Allada K, Aniol KA,
Armstrong DS, Arrington J, Bellini V, Beminiwattha R, Benesch J, Benmokhtar F,
Bertozzi W, Camsonne A, Canan M, Cates GD, Chen JP, Chudakov E, Cisbani E, Dalton
MM, de Jager CW, De Leo R, Deconinck W, Deur A, Dutta C, El Fassi L, Erler J,
Flay D, Franklin GB, Friend M, Frullani S, Garibaldi F, Gilad S, Giusa A,
Glamazdin A, Golge S, Grimm K, Hafidi K, Hansen JO, Higinbotham DW, Holmes R,
Holmstrom T, Holt RJ, Huang J, Hyde CE, Jen CM, Jones D, Kang H, King PM,
Kowalski S, Kumar KS, Lee JH, LeRose JJ, Liyanage N, Long E, McNulty D,
Margaziotis DJ, Meddi F, Meekins DG, Mercado L, Meziani ZE, Michaels R,
Mihovilovic M, Muangma N, Myers KE, Nanda S, Narayan A, Nelyubin V, Nuruzzaman,
Oh Y, Parno D, Paschke KD, Phillips SK, Qian X, Qiang Y, Quinn B, Rakhman A,
Reimer PE, Rider K, Riordan S, Roche J, Rubin J, Russo G, Saenboonruang K, Saha
A, Sawatzky B, Shahinyan A, Silwal R, Sirca S, Souder PA, Suleiman R, Sulkosky V,
Sutera CM, Tobias WA, Urciuoli GM, Waidyawansa B, Wojtsekhowski B, Ye L, Zhao B, 
Zheng X.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):43-4.

Symmetry permeates nature and is fundamental to all laws of physics. One example 
is parity (mirror) symmetry, which implies that flipping left and right does not 
change the laws of physics. Laws for electromagnetism, gravity and the subatomic 
strong force respect parity symmetry, but the subatomic weak force does not.
Historically, parity violation in electron scattering has been important in
establishing (and now testing) the standard model of particle physics. One
particular set of quantities accessible through measurements of parity-violating 
electron scattering are the effective weak couplings C2q, sensitive to the
quarks' chirality preference when participating in the weak force, which have
been measured directly only once in the past 40 years. Here we report a
measurement of the parity-violating asymmetry in electron-quark scattering, which
yields a determination of 2C2u - C2d (where u and d denote up and down quarks,
respectively) with a precision increased by a factor of five relative to the
earlier result. These results provide evidence with greater than 95 per cent
confidence that the C2q couplings are non-zero, as predicted by the electroweak
theory. They lead to constraints on new parity-violating interactions beyond the 
standard model, particularly those due to quark chirality. Whereas contemporary
particle physics research is focused on high-energy colliders such as the Large
Hadron Collider, our results provide specific chirality information on
electroweak theory that is difficult to obtain at high energies. Our measurement 
is relatively free of ambiguity in its interpretation, and opens the door to even
more precise measurements in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12964 
PMID: 24499917 


852. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):47-51. doi: 10.1038/nature12921.

Fifty thousand years of Arctic vegetation and megafaunal diet.

Willerslev E(1), Davison J(2), Moora M(2), Zobel M(2), Coissac E(3), Edwards
ME(4), Lorenzen ED(5), Vestergård M(1), Gussarova G(6), Haile J(7), Craine J(8), 
Gielly L(9), Boessenkool S(10), Epp LS(10), Pearman PB(11), Cheddadi R(12),
Murray D(13), Bråthen KA(14), Yoccoz N(14), Binney H(15), Cruaud C(16), Wincker
P(16), Goslar T(17), Alsos IG(18), Bellemain E(10), Brysting AK(19), Elven R(20),
Sønstebø JH(20), Murton J(21), Sher A(22), Rasmussen M(23), Rønn R(24), Mourier
T(23), Cooper A(25), Austin J(25), Möller P(26), Froese D(27), Zazula G(28),
Pompanon F(9), Rioux D(9), Niderkorn V(29), Tikhonov A(30), Savvinov G(31),
Roberts RG(32), MacPhee RD(33), Gilbert MT(23), Kjær KH(23), Orlando L(23),
Brochmann C(34), Taberlet P(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum, University of Copenhagen,
Oster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark [2].
(2)1] Department of Botany, Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, University
of Tartu, 40 Lai Street, 51005 Tartu, Estonia [2].
(3)1] Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine (LECA) CNRS UMR 5553, University Joseph
Fourier, BP 53, 38041 Grenoble Cedex 9, France [2].
(4)1] Geography and Environment, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ,
UK [2].
(5)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum, University of Copenhagen,
Oster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark [2] Department of Integrative
Biology, University of California Berkeley, 1005 Valley Life Sciences Building,
Berkeley, 94720 California, USA [3].
(6)1] National Centre for Biosystematics, Natural History Museum, University of
Oslo, PO Box 1172, Blindern, NO-0318 Oslo, Norway [2] Department of Botany, Saint
Petersburg State University, Universitetskaya nab. 7/9, 199034 Saint Petersburg, 
Russia [3].
(7)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum, University of Copenhagen,
Oster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark [2] Ancient DNA Laboratory,
Veterinary and Life Sciences School, Murdoch University, 90 South Street, Perth, 
6150 Western Australia, Australia [3].
(8)Division of Biology, Kansas State University, Manhattan, 66506-4901 Kansas,
USA.
(9)Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine (LECA) CNRS UMR 5553, University Joseph Fourier,
BP 53, 38041 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.
(10)1] National Centre for Biosystematics, Natural History Museum, University of 
Oslo, PO Box 1172, Blindern, NO-0318 Oslo, Norway [2] Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, PO Box
1066, Blindern, NO-0318 Oslo, Norway (S.B.); Alfred Wegener Institute, Helmholtz 
Centre for Polar and Marine Research, Research Unit Potsdam, Telegrafenberg A 43,
14473 Potsdam, Germany (L.S.E.); SpyGen, Savoie Technolac, 17 allée du lac Saint 
André, BP 274, 73375 Le Bourget-du-Lac Cedex, France (E.B.).
(11)Landscape Dynamics Unit, Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL, Zürcherstrasse
111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland.
(12)Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier, UMR 5554 Université
Montpellier 2, Bat.22, CC061, Place Eugène Bataillon, 34095 Montpellier Cedex 5, 
France.
(13)University of Alaska Museum of the North, Fairbanks, 99775-6960 Alaska, USA.
(14)Department of Arctic and Marine Biology, UiT, The Arctic University of
Norway, NO-9037 Tromsø, Norway.
(15)Geography and Environment, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ,
UK.
(16)Genoscope, Institut de Genomique du Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique (CEA), 
91000 Evry, France.
(17)1] Adam Mickiewicz University, Faculty of Physics, Umultowska 85, 61-614
Poznań, Poland [2] Poznań Radiocarbon Laboratory, Poznań Science and Technology
Park, Rubież 46, 61-612 Poznań, Poland.
(18)Tromsø University Museum, NO-9037 Tromsø, Norway.
(19)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, 
University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1066, Blindern, NO-0316 Oslo, Norway.
(20)National Centre for Biosystematics, Natural History Museum, University of
Oslo, PO Box 1172, Blindern, NO-0318 Oslo, Norway.
(21)Permafrost Laboratory, Department of Geography, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QJ, UK.
(22)1] Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Russian Academy of Sciences, 33
Leninsky Prospect, 119071 Moscow, Russia [2].
(23)Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum, University of Copenhagen,
Oster Voldgade 5-7, DK-1350 Copenhagen K, Denmark.
(24)Department of Biology, Terrestrial Ecology, Universitetsparken 15, DK- 2100
Copenhagen Ø, Denmark.
(25)Australian Centre for Ancient DNA, School of Earth & Environmental Sciences, 
University of Adelaide, Adelaide, 5005 South Australia, Australia.
(26)Department of Geology/Quaternary Sciences, Lund University Sölvegatan 12,
SE-223 62 Lund, Sweden.
(27)Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta, T6G 2E3 
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(28)Government of Yukon, Department of Tourism and Culture, Yukon Palaeontology
Program, PO Box 2703 L2A, Y1A 2C6 Whitehorse, Yukon Territory, Canada.
(29)INRA, UMR1213 Herbivores, F-63122 Saint-Genès-Champanelle, France.
(30)Zoological Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences, Universitetskaya nab. 1,
199034 Saint-Petersburg, Russia.
(31)Institute of Applied Ecology of the North of North-Eastern Federal
University, Belinskogo Street 58, 677000 Yakutsk, Republic of Sakha (Yakutia),
Russia.
(32)Centre for Archaeological Science, School of Earth and Environmental
Sciences, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, 2522 New South Wales, Australia.
(33)Division of Vertebrate Zoology/Mammalogy, American Museum of Natural History,
New York, 10024 New York, USA.
(34)1] National Centre for Biosystematics, Natural History Museum, University of 
Oslo, PO Box 1172, Blindern, NO-0318 Oslo, Norway [2].

Although it is generally agreed that the Arctic flora is among the youngest and
least diverse on Earth, the processes that shaped it are poorly understood. Here 
we present 50 thousand years (kyr) of Arctic vegetation history, derived from the
first large-scale ancient DNA metabarcoding study of circumpolar plant diversity.
For this interval we also explore nematode diversity as a proxy for modelling
vegetation cover and soil quality, and diets of herbivorous megafaunal mammals,
many of which became extinct around 10 kyr bp (before present). For much of the
period investigated, Arctic vegetation consisted of dry steppe-tundra dominated
by forbs (non-graminoid herbaceous vascular plants). During the Last Glacial
Maximum (25-15 kyr bp), diversity declined markedly, although forbs remained
dominant. Much changed after 10 kyr bp, with the appearance of moist tundra
dominated by woody plants and graminoids. Our analyses indicate that both
graminoids and forbs would have featured in megafaunal diets. As such, our
findings question the predominance of a Late Quaternary graminoid-dominated
Arctic mammoth steppe.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12921 
PMID: 24499916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):52-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12988. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

In vivo discovery of immunotherapy targets in the tumour microenvironment.

Zhou P(1), Shaffer DR(2), Alvarez Arias DA(3), Nakazaki Y(3), Pos W(3), Torres
AJ(4), Cremasco V(3), Dougan SK(5), Cowley GS(6), Elpek K(7), Brogdon J(8), Lamb 
J(9), Turley SJ(3), Ploegh HL(5), Root DE(6), Love JC(4), Dranoff G(3), Hacohen
N(6), Cantor H(3), Wucherpfennig KW(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2].
(2)1] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] [3]
Jounce Therapeutics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(3)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(5)Whitehead Institute, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(6)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(7)1] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2] Jounce
Therapeutics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(8)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139,
USA.
(9)Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation, San Diego, California 
92121, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):39-40.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Apr;13(4):258.

Recent clinical trials showed that targeting of inhibitory receptors on T cells
induces durable responses in a subset of cancer patients, despite advanced
disease. However, the regulatory switches controlling T-cell function in
immunosuppressive tumours are not well understood. Here we show that such
inhibitory mechanisms can be systematically discovered in the tumour
microenvironment. We devised an in vivo pooled short hairpin RNA (shRNA) screen
in which shRNAs targeting negative regulators became highly enriched in murine
tumours by releasing a block on T-cell proliferation upon tumour antigen
recognition. Such shRNAs were identified by deep sequencing of the shRNA cassette
from T cells infiltrating tumour or control tissues. One of the target genes was 
Ppp2r2d, a regulatory subunit of the PP2A phosphatase family. In tumours, Ppp2r2d
knockdown inhibited T-cell apoptosis and enhanced T-cell proliferation as well as
cytokine production. Key regulators of immune function can therefore be
discovered in relevant tissue microenvironments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12988 
PMCID: PMC4052214
PMID: 24476824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):58-62. doi: 10.1038/nature12959. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

An environmental bacterial taxon with a large and distinct metabolic repertoire.

Wilson MC(1), Mori T(2), Rückert C(3), Uria AR(4), Helf MJ(4), Takada K(5),
Gernert C(6), Steffens UA(7), Heycke N(7), Schmitt S(8), Rinke C(9), Helfrich
EJ(4), Brachmann AO(10), Gurgui C(7), Wakimoto T(11), Kracht M(7), Crüsemann
M(7), Hentschel U(6), Abe I(11), Matsunaga S(5), Kalinowski J(3), Takeyama H(12),
Piel J(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Microbiology, Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zurich,
Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 4, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2] Kekulé Institute of Organic
Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bonn, Gerhard-Domagk-Strasse 1, 53121
Bonn, Germany [3].
(2)1] Faculty of Science and Engineering, Waseda University Center for Advanced
Biomedical Sciences, 2-2 Wakamatsu-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8480, Japan [2].
(3)Institute for Genome Research and Systems Biology, Center for Biotechnology,
Universität Bielefeld, Universitätstrasse 25, 33594 Bielefeld, Germany.
(4)1] Institute of Microbiology, Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zurich,
Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 4, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2] Kekulé Institute of Organic
Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bonn, Gerhard-Domagk-Strasse 1, 53121
Bonn, Germany.
(5)Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo,
1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.
(6)Department of Botany II, Julius-von-Sachs Institute for Biological Sciences,
University of Würzburg, Julius-von-Sachs-Platz 3, 97082 Würzburg, Germany.
(7)Kekulé Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bonn,
Gerhard-Domagk-Strasse 1, 53121 Bonn, Germany.
(8)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Palaeontology and Geobiology, 
Ludwig Maximilians University Munich, Richard-Wagner-Strasse 10, 80333 Munich,
Germany.
(9)Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, 2800 Mitchell Drive, Walnut
Creek, California 94598, USA.
(10)Institute of Microbiology, Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zurich,
Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 4, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(11)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
(12)Faculty of Science and Engineering, Waseda University Center for Advanced
Biomedical Sciences, 2-2 Wakamatsu-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8480, Japan.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Mar 13;507(7491):262.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):38-9.

Cultivated bacteria such as actinomycetes are a highly useful source of
biomedically important natural products. However, such 'talented' producers
represent only a minute fraction of the entire, mostly uncultivated, prokaryotic 
diversity. The uncultured majority is generally perceived as a large, untapped
resource of new drug candidates, but so far it is unknown whether taxa containing
talented bacteria indeed exist. Here we report the single-cell- and
metagenomics-based discovery of such producers. Two phylotypes of the candidate
genus 'Entotheonella' with genomes of greater than 9 megabases and multiple,
distinct biosynthetic gene clusters co-inhabit the chemically and microbially
rich marine sponge Theonella swinhoei. Almost all bioactive polyketides and
peptides known from this animal were attributed to a single phylotype.
'Entotheonella' spp. are widely distributed in sponges and belong to an
environmental taxon proposed here as candidate phylum 'Tectomicrobia'. The
pronounced bioactivities and chemical uniqueness of 'Entotheonella' compounds
provide significant opportunities for ecological studies and drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12959 
PMID: 24476823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):85-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12911. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

Pathogens and insect herbivores drive rainforest plant diversity and composition.

Bagchi R(1), Gallery RE(2), Gripenberg S(3), Gurr SJ(4), Narayan L(5), Addis
CE(5), Freckleton RP(6), Lewis OT(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3PS, UK [2] Ecosystem Management Group, Institute of Terrestrial Ecosystems, ETH 
Zürich, Universitätstrasse 16, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)1] Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3PS, UK [2] School of Natural Resources and the Environment, University of
Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(3)1] Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1
3PS, UK [2] Section of Biodiversity and Environmental Research, Department of
Biology, University of Turku, 20014 Turku, Finland.
(4)1] Department of BioSciences, Geoffrey Pope Building, University of Exeter,
Exeter EX4 4QD, UK [2] Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South 
Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3RB, UK.
(5)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PS,
UK.
(6)Department of Animal and Plant Science, University of Sheffield, Western Bank,
Sheffield S10 2TN, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):44-5.

Tropical forests are important reservoirs of biodiversity, but the processes that
maintain this diversity remain poorly understood. The Janzen-Connell hypothesis
suggests that specialized natural enemies such as insect herbivores and fungal
pathogens maintain high diversity by elevating mortality when plant species occur
at high density (negative density dependence; NDD). NDD has been detected widely 
in tropical forests, but the prediction that NDD caused by insects and pathogens 
has a community-wide role in maintaining tropical plant diversity remains
untested. We show experimentally that changes in plant diversity and species
composition are caused by fungal pathogens and insect herbivores. Effective plant
species richness increased across the seed-to-seedling transition, corresponding 
to large changes in species composition. Treating seeds and young seedlings with 
fungicides significantly reduced the diversity of the seedling assemblage,
consistent with the Janzen-Connell hypothesis. Although suppressing insect
herbivores using insecticides did not alter species diversity, it greatly
increased seedling recruitment and caused a marked shift in seedling species
composition. Overall, seedling recruitment was significantly reduced at high
conspecific seed densities and this NDD was greatest for the species that were
most abundant as seeds. Suppressing fungi reduced the negative effects of density
on recruitment, confirming that the diversity-enhancing effect of fungi is
mediated by NDD. Our study provides an overall test of the Janzen-Connell
hypothesis and demonstrates the crucial role that insects and pathogens have both
in structuring tropical plant communities and in maintaining their remarkable
diversity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12911 
PMID: 24463522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):63-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12898. Epub 2014 Jan 19.

A cosmic web filament revealed in Lyman-α emission around a luminous
high-redshift quasar.

Cantalupo S(1), Arrigoni-Battaia F(2), Prochaska JX(3), Hennawi JF(2), Madau
P(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of California, 1156
High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] University of California
Observatories, Lick Observatory, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, 
USA.
(2)Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(3)1] Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of California, 1156
High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA [2] University of California
Observatories, Lick Observatory, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, 
USA [3] Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, D-69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(4)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of California, 1156 High 
Street, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.

Simulations of structure formation in the Universe predict that galaxies are
embedded in a 'cosmic web', where most baryons reside as rarefied and highly
ionized gas. This material has been studied for decades in absorption against
background sources, but the sparseness of these inherently one-dimensional probes
preclude direct constraints on the three-dimensional morphology of the underlying
web. Here we report observations of a cosmic web filament in Lyman-α emission,
discovered during a survey for cosmic gas fluorescently illuminated by bright
quasars at redshift z ≈ 2.3. With a linear projected size of approximately 460
physical kiloparsecs, the Lyman-α emission surrounding the radio-quiet quasar UM 
287 extends well beyond the virial radius of any plausible associated dark-matter
halo and therefore traces intergalactic gas. The estimated cold gas mass of the
filament from the observed emission-about 10(12.0 ± 0.5)/C(1/2) solar masses,
where C is the gas clumping factor-is more than ten times larger than what is
typically found in cosmological simulations, suggesting that a population of
intergalactic gas clumps with subkiloparsec sizes may be missing in current
numerical models.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12898 
PMID: 24463517 


857. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):71-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12941. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

An optical lattice clock with accuracy and stability at the 10(-18) level.

Bloom BJ(1), Nicholson TL(1), Williams JR(2), Campbell SL(3), Bishof M(3), Zhang 
X(3), Zhang W(3), Bromley SL(3), Ye J(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] JILA, National Institute of Standards and Technology and University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA [2] Department of Physics, University
of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0390, USA [3].
(2)1] JILA, National Institute of Standards and Technology and University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA [2] Department of Physics, University
of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0390, USA [3] Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91109, USA.
(3)1] JILA, National Institute of Standards and Technology and University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0440, USA [2] Department of Physics, University
of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309-0390, USA.

Progress in atomic, optical and quantum science has led to rapid improvements in 
atomic clocks. At the same time, atomic clock research has helped to advance the 
frontiers of science, affecting both fundamental and applied research. The
ability to control quantum states of individual atoms and photons is central to
quantum information science and precision measurement, and optical clocks based
on single ions have achieved the lowest systematic uncertainty of any frequency
standard. Although many-atom lattice clocks have shown advantages in measurement 
precision over trapped-ion clocks, their accuracy has remained 16 times worse.
Here we demonstrate a many-atom system that achieves an accuracy of 6.4 ×
10(-18), which is not only better than a single-ion-based clock, but also reduces
the required measurement time by two orders of magnitude. By systematically
evaluating all known sources of uncertainty, including in situ monitoring of the 
blackbody radiation environment, we improve the accuracy of optical lattice
clocks by a factor of 22. This single clock has simultaneously achieved the best 
known performance in the key characteristics necessary for consideration as a
primary standard-stability and accuracy. More stable and accurate atomic clocks
will benefit a wide range of fields, such as the realization and distribution of 
SI units, the search for time variation of fundamental constants, clock-based
geodesy and other precision tests of the fundamental laws of nature. This work
also connects to the development of quantum sensors and many-body quantum state
engineering (such as spin squeezing) to advance measurement precision beyond the 
standard quantum limit.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12941 
PMID: 24463513 


858. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):81-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12924. Epub 2014 Jan 15.

Convective forcing of mercury and ozone in the Arctic boundary layer induced by
leads in sea ice.

Moore CW(1), Obrist D(1), Steffen A(2), Staebler RM(2), Douglas TA(3), Richter
A(4), Nghiem SV(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Atmospheric Sciences, Desert Research Institute, Reno, Nevada
89523, USA [2].
(2)Air Quality Processes Research Section, Environment Canada, Toronto, Ontario
M3H 5T4, Canada.
(3)US Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, Fort Wainwright,
Alaska 99703, USA.
(4)Institute of Environmental Physics, University of Bremen, Bremen 28359,
Germany.
(5)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91109, USA.

The ongoing regime shift of Arctic sea ice from perennial to seasonal ice is
associated with more dynamic patterns of opening and closing sea-ice leads (large
transient channels of open water in the ice), which may affect atmospheric and
biogeochemical cycles in the Arctic. Mercury and ozone are rapidly removed from
the atmospheric boundary layer during depletion events in the Arctic, caused by
destruction of ozone along with oxidation of gaseous elemental mercury (Hg(0)) to
oxidized mercury (Hg(II)) in the atmosphere and its subsequent deposition to snow
and ice. Ozone depletion events can change the oxidative capacity of the air by
affecting atmospheric hydroxyl radical chemistry, whereas atmospheric mercury
depletion events can increase the deposition of mercury to the Arctic, some of
which can enter ecosystems during snowmelt. Here we present near-surface
measurements of atmospheric mercury and ozone from two Arctic field campaigns
near Barrow, Alaska. We find that coastal depletion events are directly linked to
sea-ice dynamics. A consolidated ice cover facilitates the depletion of Hg(0) and
ozone, but these immediately recover to near-background concentrations in the
upwind presence of open sea-ice leads. We attribute the rapid recoveries of Hg(0)
and ozone to lead-initiated shallow convection in the stable Arctic boundary
layer, which mixes Hg(0) and ozone from undepleted air masses aloft. This
convective forcing provides additional Hg(0) to the surface layer at a time of
active depletion chemistry, where it is subject to renewed oxidation. Future work
will need to establish the degree to which large-scale changes in sea-ice
dynamics across the Arctic alter ozone chemistry and mercury deposition in
fragile Arctic ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12924 
PMID: 24429521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):97-101. doi: 10.1038/nature12828. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Sequence variants in SLC16A11 are a common risk factor for type 2 diabetes in
Mexico.

SIGMA Type 2 Diabetes Consortium, Williams AL, Jacobs SB, Moreno-Macías H,
Huerta-Chagoya A, Churchhouse C, Márquez-Luna C, García-Ortíz H, Gómez-Vázquez
MJ, Burtt NP, Aguilar-Salinas CA, González-Villalpando C, Florez JC, Orozco L,
Haiman CA, Tusié-Luna T, Altshuler D.

Collaborators: Williams AL, Jacobs SB, Moreno-Macías H, Huerta-Chagoya A,
Churchhouse C, Márquez-Luna C, García-Ortíz H, Gómez-Vázquez MJ, Burtt NP,
Aguilar-Salinas CA, González-Villalpando C, Florez JC, Orozco L, Haiman CA,
Tusié-Luna T, Altshuler D, Williams AL, Márquez-Luna C, Huerta-Chagoya A, Ripke
S, Gómez-Vázquez MJ, Manning AK, Moreno-Macías H, García-Ortíz H, Neale B, Burtt 
NP, Aguilar-Salinas CA, Reich D, Stram DO, Fernández-López JC, Romero-Hidalgo S, 
Altshuler D, Florez JC, Tusié-Luna T, Patterson N, Haiman CA, Aguilar-Delfín I,
Martínez-Hernández A, Centeno-Cruz F, Mendoza-Caamal E, Revilla-Monsalve C,
Islas-Andrade S, Córdova E, Rodríguez-Arellano E, Soberón X, Orozco L, Florez JC,
González-Villalpando C, González-Villalpando ME, Haiman CA, Henderson BE, Monroe 
K, Wilkens L, Kolonel LN, Le Marchand L, Riba L, Ordóñez-Sánchez ML,
Rodríguez-Guillén R, Cruz-Bautista I, Rodríguez-Torres M, Muñoz-Hernández LL,
Sáenz T, Gómez D, Alvirde U, Burtt NP, Onofrio RC, Brodeur WM, Gage D, Murphy J, 
Franklin J, Mahan S, Ardlie K, Crenshaw AT, Winckler W, Prüfer K, Shunkov MV,
Sawyer S, Stenzel U, Kelso J, Lek M, Sankararaman S, Williams AL, Patterson N,
MacArthur DG, Reich D, Derevianko AP, Pääbo S, Jacobs SB, Churchhouse C, Gopal S,
Grammatikos JA, Smith IC, Bullock KH, Deik AA, Souza AL, Pierce KA, Clish CB,
Altshuler D, Fennell T, Farjoun Y, Gabriel S, Stram DO, Gross MD, Pereira MA,
Seielstad M, Koh WP, Tai ES, Flannick J, Fontanillas P, Morris A, Teslovich TM,
Burtt NP, Atzmon G, Blangero J, Bowden DW, Chambers J, Cho YS, Duggirala R,
Glaser B, Hanis C, Kooner J, Laakso M, Lee JY, Tai ES, Teo YY, Wilson JG, Haiman 
CA, Henderson BE, Monroe K, Wilkens L, Kolonel LN, Le Marchand L, Puppala S,
Farook VS, Thameem F, Abboud HE, DeFronzo RA, Jenkinson CP, Lehman DM, Curran JE,
Blangero J, Duggirala R, Burtt NP, Cortes ML, Altshuler D, Florez JC, Haiman CA, 
Henderson BE, Aguilar-Salinas CA, González-Villalpando C, Orozco L, Tusié-Luna T.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Mar;10(3):128.

Performing genetic studies in multiple human populations can identify disease
risk alleles that are common in one population but rare in others, with the
potential to illuminate pathophysiology, health disparities, and the population
genetic origins of disease alleles. Here we analysed 9.2 million single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in each of 8,214 Mexicans and other Latin
Americans: 3,848 with type 2 diabetes and 4,366 non-diabetic controls. In
addition to replicating previous findings, we identified a novel locus associated
with type 2 diabetes at genome-wide significance spanning the solute carriers
SLC16A11 and SLC16A13 (P = 3.9 × 10(-13); odds ratio (OR) = 1.29). The
association was stronger in younger, leaner people with type 2 diabetes, and
replicated in independent samples (P = 1.1 × 10(-4); OR = 1.20). The risk
haplotype carries four amino acid substitutions, all in SLC16A11; it is present
at ~50% frequency in Native American samples and ~10% in east Asian, but is rare 
in European and African samples. Analysis of an archaic genome sequence indicated
that the risk haplotype introgressed into modern humans via admixture with
Neanderthals. The SLC16A11 messenger RNA is expressed in liver, and V5-tagged
SLC16A11 protein localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of SLC16A11
in heterologous cells alters lipid metabolism, most notably causing an increase
in intracellular triacylglycerol levels. Despite type 2 diabetes having been well
studied by genome-wide association studies in other populations, analysis in
Mexican and Latin American individuals identified SLC16A11 as a novel candidate
gene for type 2 diabetes with a possible role in triacylglycerol metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12828 
PMCID: PMC4127086
PMID: 24390345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):111-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12824. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Aprataxin resolves adenylated RNA-DNA junctions to maintain genome integrity.

Tumbale P(1), Williams JS(2), Schellenberg MJ(1), Kunkel TA(3), Williams RS(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences, NIH, DHHS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA
[2].
(2)1] Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences, NIH, DHHS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA [2]
Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, NIH, DHHS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA [3].
(3)1] Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences, NIH, DHHS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA [2]
Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, NIH, DHHS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Structural Biology, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, NIH, DHHS, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA.

Faithful maintenance and propagation of eukaryotic genomes is ensured by
three-step DNA ligation reactions used by ATP-dependent DNA ligases.
Paradoxically, when DNA ligases encounter nicked DNA structures with abnormal DNA
termini, DNA ligase catalytic activity can generate and/or exacerbate DNA damage 
through abortive ligation that produces chemically adducted, toxic 5'-adenylated 
(5'-AMP) DNA lesions. Aprataxin (APTX) reverses DNA adenylation but the context
for deadenylation repair is unclear. Here we examine the importance of APTX to
RNase-H2-dependent excision repair (RER) of a lesion that is very frequently
introduced into DNA, a ribonucleotide. We show that ligases generate adenylated
5' ends containing a ribose characteristic of RNase H2 incision. APTX efficiently
repairs adenylated RNA-DNA, and acting in an RNA-DNA damage response (RDDR),
promotes cellular survival and prevents S-phase checkpoint activation in budding 
yeast undergoing RER. Structure-function studies of human APTX-RNA-DNA-AMP-Zn
complexes define a mechanism for detecting and reversing adenylation at RNA-DNA
junctions. This involves A-form RNA binding, proper protein folding and
conformational changes, all of which are affected by heritable APTX mutations in 
ataxia with oculomotor apraxia 1. Together, these results indicate that
accumulation of adenylated RNA-DNA may contribute to neurological disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12824 
PMCID: PMC4064939
PMID: 24362567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):89-92. doi: 10.1038/nature12872. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Three keys to the radiation of angiosperms into freezing environments.

Zanne AE(1), Tank DC(2), Cornwell WK(3), Eastman JM(2), Smith SA(4), FitzJohn
RG(5), McGlinn DJ(6), O'Meara BC(7), Moles AT(8), Reich PB(9), Royer DL(10),
Soltis DE(11), Stevens PF(12), Westoby M(13), Wright IJ(13), Aarssen L(14),
Bertin RI(15), Calaminus A(16), Govaerts R(17), Hemmings F(8), Leishman MR(13),
Oleksyn J(18), Soltis PS(19), Swenson NG(20), Warman L(21), Beaulieu JM(22).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biological Sciences, George Washington University, Washington
DC 20052, USA [2] Center for Conservation and Sustainable Development, Missouri
Botanical Garden, St Louis, Missouri 63121, USA.
(2)1] Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho
83844, USA [2] Institute for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies, University 
of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho 83844, USA.
(3)1] Department of Ecological Sciences, Systems Ecology, de Boelelaan 1085, 1081
HV Amsterdam, the Netherlands [2] Evolution & Ecology Research Centre, School of 
Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales 2052, Australia.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(5)1] Department of Zoology and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T1Z4, Canada [2] Department of
Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales 2109,
Australia.
(6)Department of Biology and the Ecology Center, Utah State University, Logan,
Utah 84322, USA.
(7)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA.
(8)Evolution & Ecology Research Centre, School of Biological, Earth and
Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales
2052, Australia.
(9)1] Department of Forest Resources, University of Minnesota, St Paul, Minnesota
55108, USA [2] Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, University of Western
Sydney, Penrith, New South Wales 2751, Australia.
(10)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Wesleyan University,
Middletown, Connecticut 06459, USA.
(11)1] Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611, 
USA [2] Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida 32611, USA [3] Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida 32611, USA.
(12)Department of Biology, University of Missouri-St Louis, St Louis, Missouri
63121, USA.
(13)Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South
Wales 2109, Australia.
(14)Department of Biology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario K7L 3N6, Canada.
(15)Department of Biology, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Massachusetts
01610, USA.
(16)Department of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611,
USA.
(17)Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3AB, United Kingdom.
(18)1] Department of Forest Resources, University of Minnesota, St Paul,
Minnesota 55108, USA [2] Polish Academy of Sciences, Institute of Dendrology,
62-035 Kornik, Poland.
(19)1] Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida 32611, USA [2] Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville,
Florida 32611, USA.
(20)Department of Plant Biology and Ecology, Evolutionary Biology and Behavior,
Program, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA.
(21)1] Evolution & Ecology Research Centre, School of Biological, Earth and
Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales
2052, Australia [2] Institute of Pacific Islands Forestry, USDA Forest Service,
Hilo, Hawaii 96720, USA.
(22)National Institute for Mathematical & Biological Synthesis, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Oct 16;514(7522):394.
    Nature. 2015 May 21;521(7552):380.

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 May 21;521(7552):E5-6.
    Nature. 2015 May 21;521(7552):E6-7.

Early flowering plants are thought to have been woody species restricted to warm 
habitats. This lineage has since radiated into almost every climate, with
manifold growth forms. As angiosperms spread and climate changed, they evolved
mechanisms to cope with episodic freezing. To explore the evolution of traits
underpinning the ability to persist in freezing conditions, we assembled a large 
species-level database of growth habit (woody or herbaceous; 49,064 species), as 
well as leaf phenology (evergreen or deciduous), diameter of hydraulic conduits
(that is, xylem vessels and tracheids) and climate occupancies (exposure to
freezing). To model the evolution of species' traits and climate occupancies, we 
combined these data with an unparalleled dated molecular phylogeny (32,223
species) for land plants. Here we show that woody clades successfully moved into 
freezing-prone environments by either possessing transport networks of small safe
conduits and/or shutting down hydraulic function by dropping leaves during
freezing. Herbaceous species largely avoided freezing periods by senescing
cheaply constructed aboveground tissue. Growth habit has long been considered
labile, but we find that growth habit was less labile than climate occupancy.
Additionally, freezing environments were largely filled by lineages that had
already become herbs or, when remaining woody, already had small conduits (that
is, the trait evolved before the climate occupancy). By contrast, most deciduous 
woody lineages had an evolutionary shift to seasonally shedding their leaves only
after exposure to freezing (that is, the climate occupancy evolved before the
trait). For angiosperms to inhabit novel cold environments they had to gain new
structural and functional trait solutions; our results suggest that many of these
solutions were probably acquired before their foray into the cold.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12872 
PMID: 24362564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):93-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12786. Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Modelling the effects of subjective and objective decision making in scientific
peer review.

Park IU(1), Peacey MW(2), Munafò MR(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Economics, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1TN, UK [2]
Department of Economics, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul 110-745, South Korea.
(2)1] Department of Economics, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1TN, UK [2]
Department of Economics, University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK.
(3)1] MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit (IEU), University of Bristol, Bristol BS8
1BN, UK [2] UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, University of Bristol,
Bristol BS8 1TU, UK [3] School of Experimental Psychology, University of Bristol,
Bristol BS8 1TU, UK.

The objective of science is to advance knowledge, primarily in two interlinked
ways: circulating ideas, and defending or criticizing the ideas of others. Peer
review acts as the gatekeeper to these mechanisms. Given the increasing concern
surrounding the reproducibility of much published research, it is critical to
understand whether peer review is intrinsically susceptible to failure, or
whether other extrinsic factors are responsible that distort scientists'
decisions. Here we show that even when scientists are motivated to promote the
truth, their behaviour may be influenced, and even dominated, by information
gleaned from their peers' behaviour, rather than by their personal dispositions. 
This phenomenon, known as herding, subjects the scientific community to an
inherent risk of converging on an incorrect answer and raises the possibility
that, under certain conditions, science may not be self-correcting. We further
demonstrate that exercising some subjectivity in reviewer decisions, which serves
to curb the herding process, can be beneficial for the scientific community in
processing available information to estimate truth more accurately. By examining 
the impact of different models of reviewer decisions on the dynamic process of
publication, and thereby on eventual aggregation of knowledge, we provide a new
perspective on the ongoing discussion of how the peer-review process may be
improved.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12786 
PMID: 24305052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):116-20. doi: 10.1038/nature12803. Epub 2013 Nov 17.

Crystal structures of the Lsm complex bound to the 3' end sequence of U6 small
nuclear RNA.

Zhou L(1), Hang J(2), Zhou Y(3), Wan R(4), Lu G(4), Yin P(5), Yan C(6), Shi Y(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China [2] Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life
Sciences, Center for Structural Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of
Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China [3].
(2)1] Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences, Center for Structural
Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China [2] State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane
Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China [3].
(3)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane Biotechnology, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China.
(5)Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences, Center for Structural Biology,
School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China.
(6)1] Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life Sciences, Center for Structural
Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China [2] State Key Laboratory of Bio-membrane and Membrane
Biotechnology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(7)1] Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China [2] Tsinghua-Peking Joint Center for Life
Sciences, Center for Structural Biology, School of Life Sciences and School of
Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Splicing of precursor messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) in eukaryotic cells is carried out
by the spliceosome, which consists of five small nuclear ribonucleoproteins
(snRNPs) and a number of accessory factors and enzymes. Each snRNP contains a
ring-shaped subcomplex of seven proteins and a specific RNA molecule. The U6
snRNP contains a unique heptameric Lsm protein complex, which specifically
recognizes the U6 small nuclear RNA at its 3' end. Here we report the crystal
structures of the heptameric Lsm complex, both by itself and in complex with a 3'
fragment of U6 snRNA, at 2.8 Å resolution. Each of the seven Lsm proteins
interacts with two neighbouring Lsm components to form a doughnut-shaped
assembly, with the order Lsm3-2-8-4-7-5-6. The four uridine nucleotides at the 3'
end of U6 snRNA are modularly recognized by Lsm3, Lsm2, Lsm8 and Lsm4, with the
uracil base specificity conferred by a highly conserved asparagine residue. The
uracil base at the extreme 3' end is sandwiched by His 36 and Arg 69 from Lsm3,
through π-π and cation-π interactions, respectively. The distinctive
end-recognition of U6 snRNA by the Lsm complex contrasts with RNA binding by the 
Sm complex in the other snRNPs. The structural features and associated
biochemical analyses deepen mechanistic understanding of the U6 snRNP function in
pre-mRNA splicing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12803 
PMID: 24240276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Nature. 2014 Feb 6;506(7486):102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12720. Epub 2013 Oct 23.

Structure of the SecY channel during initiation of protein translocation.

Park E(1), Ménétret JF(2), Gumbart JC(3), Ludtke SJ(4), Li W(1), Whynot A(1),
Rapoport TA(1), Akey CW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard
Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Boston University School of Medicine,
700 Albany Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02118-2526, USA.
(3)School of Physics, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia 30332,
USA.
(4)National Center for Macromolecular Imaging, Verna and Marrs McLean Department 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, 1 Baylor
Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Apr 14;24(8):R317-9.

Many secretory proteins are targeted by signal sequences to a protein-conducting 
channel, formed by prokaryotic SecY or eukaryotic Sec61 complexes, and are
translocated across the membrane during their synthesis. Crystal structures of
the inactive channel show that the SecY subunit of the heterotrimeric complex
consists of two halves that form an hourglass-shaped pore with a constriction in 
the middle of the membrane and a lateral gate that faces the lipid phase. The
closed channel has an empty cytoplasmic funnel and an extracellular funnel that
is filled with a small helical domain, called the plug. During initiation of
translocation, a ribosome-nascent chain complex binds to the SecY (or Sec61)
complex, resulting in insertion of the nascent chain. However, the mechanism of
channel opening during translocation is unclear. Here we have addressed this
question by determining structures of inactive and active ribosome-channel
complexes with cryo-electron microscopy. Non-translating ribosome-SecY channel
complexes derived from Methanocaldococcus jannaschii or Escherichia coli show the
channel in its closed state, and indicate that ribosome binding per se causes
only minor changes. The structure of an active E. coli ribosome-channel complex
demonstrates that the nascent chain opens the channel, causing mostly rigid body 
movements of the amino- and carboxy-terminal halves of SecY. In this early
translocation intermediate, the polypeptide inserts as a loop into the SecY
channel with the hydrophobic signal sequence intercalated into the open lateral
gate. The nascent chain also forms a loop on the cytoplasmic surface of SecY
rather than entering the channel directly.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12720 
PMCID: PMC3948209
PMID: 24153188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):706-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12946.

Landscape and variation of RNA secondary structure across the human
transcriptome.

Wan Y(1), Qu K(2), Zhang QC(3), Flynn RA(3), Manor O(4), Ouyang Z(5), Zhang J(3),
Spitale RC(3), Snyder MP(6), Segal E(4), Chang HY(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] Stem Cell and 
Development, Genome Institute of Singapore, 60 Biopolis Street, Singapore 138672 
[3].
(2)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2].
(3)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
(4)Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Weizmann Institute of 
Science, Rehovet 76100, Israel.
(5)1] Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Program in Epithelial Biology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA [2] The Jackson
Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, 263 Farmington Avenue, ASB Call Box 901
Farmington, Connecticut 06030, USA.
(6)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):621-2.
    Nat Rev Genet. 2014 Apr;15(4):219.

In parallel to the genetic code for protein synthesis, a second layer of
information is embedded in all RNA transcripts in the form of RNA structure. RNA 
structure influences practically every step in the gene expression program.
However, the nature of most RNA structures or effects of sequence variation on
structure are not known. Here we report the initial landscape and variation of
RNA secondary structures (RSSs) in a human family trio (mother, father and their 
child). This provides a comprehensive RSS map of human coding and non-coding
RNAs. We identify unique RSS signatures that demarcate open reading frames and
splicing junctions, and define authentic microRNA-binding sites. Comparison of
native deproteinized RNA isolated from cells versus refolded purified RNA
suggests that the majority of the RSS information is encoded within RNA sequence.
Over 1,900 transcribed single nucleotide variants (approximately 15% of all
transcribed single nucleotide variants) alter local RNA structure. We discover
simple sequence and spacing rules that determine the ability of point mutations
to impact RSSs. Selective depletion of 'riboSNitches' versus structurally
synonymous variants at precise locations suggests selection for specific RNA
shapes at thousands of sites, including 3' untranslated regions, binding sites of
microRNAs and RNA-binding proteins genome-wide. These results highlight the
potentially broad contribution of RNA structure and its variation to gene
regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12946 
PMCID: PMC3973747
PMID: 24476892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):676-80. doi: 10.1038/nature12969.

Bidirectional developmental potential in reprogrammed cells with acquired
pluripotency.

Obokata H(1), Sasai Y(2), Niwa H(3), Kadota M(4), Andrabi M(4), Takata N(2),
Tokoro M(5), Terashita Y(6), Yonemura S(7), Vacanti CA(8), Wakayama T(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory for Cellular Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for Developmental
Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan [2] Laboratory for Genomic Reprogramming, RIKEN
Center for Developmental Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan [3] Laboratory for Tissue 
Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(2)Laboratory for Organogenesis and Neurogenesis, RIKEN Center for Developmental 
Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Pluripotent Stem Cell Studies, RIKEN Center for Developmental
Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(4)Genome Resource and Analysis Unit, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology,
Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Genomic Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology, 
Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(6)1] Laboratory for Cellular Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for Developmental
Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan [2] Laboratory for Genomic Reprogramming, RIKEN
Center for Developmental Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(7)Electron Microscopy Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology, Kobe
650-0047, Japan.
(8)Laboratory for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(9)1] Laboratory for Genomic Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for Developmental
Biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan [2] Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences,
University of Yamanashi, Yamanashi 400-8510, Japan.

Retraction in
    Obokata H, Sasai Y, Niwa H, Kadota M, Andrabi M, Takata N, Tokoro M, Terashita Y,
Yonemura S, Vacanti CA, Wakayama T. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):112.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Mar 6;14(3):273-4.
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):622-3.
    Nature. 2015 Sep 24;525(7570):E4-5.
    Nature. 2015 Sep 24;525(7570):E6-9.

We recently discovered an unexpected phenomenon of somatic cell reprogramming
into pluripotent cells by exposure to sublethal stimuli, which we call
stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency (STAP). This reprogramming does
not require nuclear transfer or genetic manipulation. Here we report that
reprogrammed STAP cells, unlike embryonic stem (ES) cells, can contribute to both
embryonic and placental tissues, as seen in a blastocyst injection assay. Mouse
STAP cells lose the ability to contribute to the placenta as well as trophoblast 
marker expression on converting into ES-like stem cells by treatment with
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF). In
contrast, when cultured with Fgf4, STAP cells give rise to proliferative stem
cells with enhanced trophoblastic characteristics. Notably, unlike conventional
trophoblast stem cells, the Fgf4-induced stem cells from STAP cells contribute to
both embryonic and placental tissues in vivo and transform into ES-like cells
when cultured with LIF-containing medium. Taken together, the developmental
potential of STAP cells, shown by chimaera formation and in vitro cell
conversion, indicates that they represent a unique state of pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12969 
PMID: 24476891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):667-71. doi: 10.1038/nature12882.

Australian tropical cyclone activity lower than at any time over the past
550-1,500 years.

Haig J(1), Nott J(1), Reichart GJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Earth and Environmental Sciences, James Cook University, Cairns, Queensland
4870, Australia.
(2)1] Department of Geochemistry, Utrecht University, Utrecht 3508 TA, The
Netherlands [2] Geology Department, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research,
Den Hoorn (Texel) 1797 SZ, The Netherlands.

The assessment of changes in tropical cyclone activity within the context of
anthropogenically influenced climate change has been limited by the short
temporal resolution of the instrumental tropical cyclone record (less than 50
years). Furthermore, controversy exists regarding the robustness of the
observational record, especially before 1990. Here we show, on the basis of a new
tropical cyclone activity index (CAI), that the present low levels of storm
activity on the mid west and northeast coasts of Australia are unprecedented over
the past 550 to 1,500 years. The CAI allows for a direct comparison between the
modern instrumental record and long-term palaeotempest (prehistoric tropical
cyclone) records derived from the (18)O/(16)O ratio of seasonally accreting
carbonate layers of actively growing stalagmites. Our results reveal a repeated
multicentennial cycle of tropical cyclone activity, the most recent of which
commenced around AD 1700. The present cycle includes a sharp decrease in activity
after 1960 in Western Australia. This is in contrast to the increasing frequency 
and destructiveness of Northern Hemisphere tropical cyclones since 1970 in the
Atlantic Ocean and the western North Pacific Ocean. Other studies project a
decrease in the frequency of tropical cyclones towards the end of the
twenty-first century in the southwest Pacific, southern Indian and Australian
regions. Our results, although based on a limited record, suggest that this may
be occurring much earlier than expected.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12882 
PMID: 24476890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):657-60. doi: 10.1038/nature12954.

Observation of Dirac monopoles in a synthetic magnetic field.

Ray MW(1), Ruokokoski E(2), Kandel S(3), Möttönen M(4), Hall DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts 01002-5000,
USA.
(2)QCD Labs, COMP Centre of Excellence, Department of Applied Physics, Aalto
University, PO Box 13500, 00076 Aalto, Finland.
(3)1] Department of Physics, Amherst College, Amherst, Massachusetts 01002-5000, 
USA [2] City of Hope National Medical Center, 1500 East Duarte Road, Duarte,
California 91010, USA.
(4)1] QCD Labs, COMP Centre of Excellence, Department of Applied Physics, Aalto
University, PO Box 13500, 00076 Aalto, Finland [2] Low Temperature Laboratory
(OVLL), Aalto University, PO Box 13500, 00076 Aalto, Finland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):627-8.

Magnetic monopoles--particles that behave as isolated north or south magnetic
poles--have been the subject of speculation since the first detailed observations
of magnetism several hundred years ago. Numerous theoretical investigations and
hitherto unsuccessful experimental searches have followed Dirac's 1931
development of a theory of monopoles consistent with both quantum mechanics and
the gauge invariance of the electromagnetic field. The existence of even a single
Dirac magnetic monopole would have far-reaching physical consequences, most
famously explaining the quantization of electric charge. Although analogues of
magnetic monopoles have been found in exotic spin ices and other systems, there
has been no direct experimental observation of Dirac monopoles within a medium
described by a quantum field, such as superfluid helium-3 (refs 10-13). Here we
demonstrate the controlled creation of Dirac monopoles in the synthetic magnetic 
field produced by a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate. Monopoles are identified, in
both experiments and matching numerical simulations, at the termini of vortex
lines within the condensate. By directly imaging such a vortex line, the presence
of a monopole may be discerned from the experimental data alone. These real-space
images provide conclusive and long-awaited experimental evidence of the existence
of Dirac monopoles. Our result provides an unprecedented opportunity to observe
and manipulate these quantum mechanical entities in a controlled environment.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12954 
PMID: 24476889 


869. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):654-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12955.

A global cloud map of the nearest known brown dwarf.

Crossfield IJ(1), Biller B(2), Schlieder JE(1), Deacon NR(1), Bonnefoy M(3),
Homeier D(4), Allard F(4), Buenzli E(1), Henning T(1), Brandner W(1), Goldman
B(1), Kopytova T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)1] Max Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] Institute for Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Blackford Hill,
Edinburgh EH9 3HJ, UK.
(3)1] Max Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] UJF-Grenoble 1/CNRS-INSU, Institut de Planétologie et d'Astrophysique
de Grenoble (IPAG) UMR 5274, 38041 Grenoble, France.
(4)CRAL-ENS, 46 Allée d'Italie, 69364 Lyon, Cedex 07, France.
(5)1] Max Planck Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany [2] International Max-Planck Research School for Astronomy and Cosmic
Physics at the University of Heidelberg, Königstuhl 17, 69117 Heidelberg,
Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):625-6.

Brown dwarfs--substellar bodies more massive than planets but not massive enough 
to initiate the sustained hydrogen fusion that powers self-luminous stars--are
born hot and slowly cool as they age. As they cool below about 2,300 kelvin,
liquid or crystalline particles composed of calcium aluminates, silicates and
iron condense into atmospheric 'dust', which disappears at still cooler
temperatures (around 1,300 kelvin). Models to explain this dust dispersal include
both an abrupt sinking of the entire cloud deck into the deep, unobservable
atmosphere and breakup of the cloud into scattered patches (as seen on Jupiter
and Saturn). However, hitherto observations of brown dwarfs have been limited to 
globally integrated measurements, which can reveal surface inhomogeneities but
cannot unambiguously resolve surface features. Here we report a two-dimensional
map of a brown dwarf's surface that allows identification of large-scale bright
and dark features, indicative of patchy clouds. Monitoring suggests that the
characteristic timescale for the evolution of global weather patterns is
approximately one day.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12955 
PMID: 24476888 


870. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):641-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12968.

Stimulus-triggered fate conversion of somatic cells into pluripotency.

Obokata H(1), Wakayama T(2), Sasai Y(3), Kojima K(4), Vacanti MP(5), Niwa H(6),
Yamato M(7), Vacanti CA(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2]
Laboratory for Cellular Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for Developmental biology,
Kobe 650-0047, Japan [3] Laboratory for Genomic Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for
Developmental biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(2)1] Laboratory for Genomic Reprogramming, RIKEN Center for Developmental
biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan [2] Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences,
University of Yamanashi, Yamanashi 400-8510, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Organogenesis and Neurogenesis, RIKEN Center for Developmental 
biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Laboratory for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2]
Department of Pathology, Irwin Army Community Hospital, Fort Riley, Kansas 66442,
USA.
(6)Laboratory for Pluripotent Stem Cell Studies, RIKEN Center for Developmental
biology, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.
(7)Institute of Advanced Biomedical Engineering and Science, Tokyo Women's
Medical University, Tokyo 162-8666, Japan.

Retraction in
    Obokata H, Wakayama T, Sasai Y, Kojima K, Vacanti MP, Niwa H, Yamato M, Vacanti
CA. Nature. 2014 Jul 3;511(7507):112.

Comment in
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Mar 6;14(3):273-4.
    Mov Disord. 2014 Apr;29(4):451.
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):622-3.
    Nature. 2015 Sep 24;525(7570):E4-5.
    Nature. 2015 Sep 24;525(7570):E6-9.

Here we report a unique cellular reprogramming phenomenon, called
stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency (STAP), which requires neither
nuclear transfer nor the introduction of transcription factors. In STAP, strong
external stimuli such as a transient low-pH stressor reprogrammed mammalian
somatic cells, resulting in the generation of pluripotent cells. Through
real-time imaging of STAP cells derived from purified lymphocytes, as well as
gene rearrangement analysis, we found that committed somatic cells give rise to
STAP cells by reprogramming rather than selection. STAP cells showed a
substantial decrease in DNA methylation in the regulatory regions of pluripotency
marker genes. Blastocyst injection showed that STAP cells efficiently contribute 
to chimaeric embryos and to offspring via germline transmission. We also
demonstrate the derivation of robustly expandable pluripotent cell lines from
STAP cells. Thus, our findings indicate that epigenetic fate determination of
mammalian cells can be markedly converted in a context-dependent manner by strong
environmental cues.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12968 
PMID: 24476887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):629-34. doi: 10.1038/nature12908.

Solar System evolution from compositional mapping of the asteroid belt.

DeMeo FE(1), Carry B(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, 60 Garden Street, MS-16,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Earth, Atmospheric and
Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), 77 Massachusetts
Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(2)1] Institut de Mécanique Céleste et de Calcul des Éphémérides, Observatoire de
Paris, UMR8028 CNRS, 77 avenue Denfert-Rochereau, 75014 Paris, France [2]
European Space Astronomy (ESA) Centre, PO Box 78, Villanueva de la Cañada 28691, 
Madrid, Spain.

Advances in the discovery and characterization of asteroids over the past decade 
have revealed an unanticipated underlying structure that points to a dramatic
early history of the inner Solar System. The asteroids in the main asteroid belt 
have been discovered to be more compositionally diverse with size and distance
from the Sun than had previously been known. This implies substantial mixing
through processes such as planetary migration and the subsequent dynamical
processes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12908 
PMID: 24476886 


872. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):672-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12949. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

Within-group male relatedness reduces harm to females in Drosophila.

Carazo P(1), Tan CK(1), Allen F(2), Wigby S(2), Pizzari T(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford 
OX1 3PS, UK [2].
(2)Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1
3PS, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):626-7.

To resolve the mechanisms that switch competition to cooperation is key to
understanding biological organization. This is particularly relevant for
intrasexual competition, which often leads to males harming females. Recent
theory proposes that kin selection may modulate female harm by relaxing
competition among male relatives. Here we experimentally manipulate the
relatedness of groups of male Drosophila melanogaster competing over females to
demonstrate that, as expected, within-group relatedness inhibits male competition
and female harm. Females exposed to groups of three brothers unrelated to the
female had higher lifetime reproductive success and slower reproductive ageing
compared to females exposed to groups of three males unrelated to each other.
Triplets of brothers also fought less with each other, courted females less
intensively and lived longer than triplets of unrelated males. However,
associations among brothers may be vulnerable to invasion by minorities of
unrelated males: when two brothers were matched with an unrelated male, the
unrelated male sired on average twice as many offspring as either brother. These 
results demonstrate that relatedness can profoundly affect fitness through its
modulation of intrasexual competition, as flies plastically adjust sexual
behaviour in a manner consistent with kin-selection theory.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12949 
PMCID: PMC5768239
PMID: 24463521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):648-53. doi: 10.1038/nature12922. Epub 2014 Jan 22.

ANP32E is a histone chaperone that removes H2A.Z from chromatin.

Obri A(1), Ouararhni K(1), Papin C(1), Diebold ML(2), Padmanabhan K(3), Marek
M(2), Stoll I(4), Roy L(4), Reilly PT(5), Mak TW(6), Dimitrov S(3), Romier C(2), 
Hamiche A(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Département de Génomique Fonctionnelle et Cancer, Institut de Génétique et 
Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), Université de Strasbourg, CNRS,
INSERM, 1 rue Laurent Fries, B.P. 10142, 67404 Illkirch Cedex, France [2].
(2)Département de Biologie Structurale Intégrative, Institut de Génétique et
Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), Université de Strasbourg, CNRS,
INSERM, 1 rue Laurent Fries, B.P. 10142, 67404 Illkirch Cedex, France.
(3)Equipe labélisée Ligue contre le Cancer, INSERM/Université Joseph Fourier ,
Institut Albert Bonniot, U823, Site Santé-BP 170, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France.
(4)Département de Génomique Fonctionnelle et Cancer, Institut de Génétique et
Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), Université de Strasbourg, CNRS,
INSERM, 1 rue Laurent Fries, B.P. 10142, 67404 Illkirch Cedex, France.
(5)Laboratory of Inflammation Biology, Division of Cellular and Molecular
Research, National Cancer Centre, Singapore, Singapore.
(6)1] Laboratory of Inflammation Biology, Division of Cellular and Molecular
Research, National Cancer Centre, Singapore, Singapore [2] The Campbell Family
Institute for Breast Cancer Research, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

H2A.Z is an essential histone variant implicated in the regulation of key nuclear
events. However, the metazoan chaperones responsible for H2A.Z deposition and its
removal from chromatin remain unknown. Here we report the identification and
characterization of the human protein ANP32E as a specific H2A.Z chaperone. We
show that ANP32E is a member of the presumed H2A.Z histone-exchange complex
p400/TIP60. ANP32E interacts with a short region of the docking domain of H2A.Z
through a new motif termed H2A.Z interacting domain (ZID). The 1.48 Å resolution 
crystal structure of the complex formed between the ANP32E-ZID and the H2A.Z/H2B 
dimer and biochemical data support an underlying molecular mechanism for
H2A.Z/H2B eviction from the nucleosome and its stabilization by ANP32E through a 
specific extension of the H2A.Z carboxy-terminal α-helix. Finally, analysis of
H2A.Z localization in ANP32E(-/-) cells by chromatin immunoprecipitation followed
by sequencing shows genome-wide enrichment, redistribution and accumulation of
H2A.Z at specific chromatin control regions, in particular at enhancers and
insulators.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12922 
PMID: 24463511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):635-40. doi: 10.1038/nature12943. Epub 2014 Jan 19.

The evolution of lncRNA repertoires and expression patterns in tetrapods.

Necsulea A(1), Soumillon M(1), Warnefors M(2), Liechti A(2), Daish T(3), Zeller
U(4), Baker JC(5), Grützner F(3), Kaessmann H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland [2] Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland [3]
Laboratory of Developmental Genomics, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
(EPFL), 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland (A.N.); Harvard Department of Stem Cell and
Regenerative Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA,
and Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA (M.S.).
(2)1] Center for Integrative Genomics, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland [2] Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)The Robinson Institute, School of Molecular and Biomedical Science, University
of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia 5005, Australia.
(4)Department of Systematic Zoology, Faculty of Agriculture and Horticulture,
Humboldt University Berlin, 10099 Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Only a very small fraction of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are well
characterized. The evolutionary history of lncRNAs can provide insights into
their functionality, but the absence of lncRNA annotations in non-model organisms
has precluded comparative analyses. Here we present a large-scale evolutionary
study of lncRNA repertoires and expression patterns, in 11 tetrapod species. We
identify approximately 11,000 primate-specific lncRNAs and 2,500 highly conserved
lncRNAs, including approximately 400 genes that are likely to have originated
more than 300 million years ago. We find that lncRNAs, in particular ancient
ones, are in general actively regulated and may function predominantly in
embryonic development. Most lncRNAs evolve rapidly in terms of sequence and
expression levels, but tissue specificities are often conserved. We compared
expression patterns of homologous lncRNA and protein-coding families across
tetrapods to reconstruct an evolutionarily conserved co-expression network. This 
network suggests potential functions for lncRNAs in fundamental processes such as
spermatogenesis and synaptic transmission, but also in more specific mechanisms
such as placenta development through microRNA production.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12943 
PMID: 24463510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):664-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12927. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Resonant Auger decay driving intermolecular Coulombic decay in molecular dimers.

Trinter F(1), Schöffler MS(2), Kim HK(1), Sturm FP(2), Cole K(1), Neumann N(1),
Vredenborg A(1), Williams J(3), Bocharova I(4), Guillemin R(5), Simon M(5),
Belkacem A(4), Landers AL(3), Weber T(4), Schmidt-Böcking H(1), Dörner R(1),
Jahnke T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Kernphysik, Goethe-Universität, Max-von-Laue-Strasse 1, 60438
Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(2)1] Institut für Kernphysik, Goethe-Universität, Max-von-Laue-Strasse 1, 60438 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany [2] Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Chemical
Sciences Division, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama 36849, USA.
(4)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Chemical Sciences Division, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(5)UPMC and CNRS, UMR 7614, Laboratoire de Chimie Physique Matière et
Rayonnement, 75005 Paris, France.

In 1997, it was predicted that an electronically excited atom or molecule placed 
in a loosely bound chemical system (such as a hydrogen-bonded or
van-der-Waals-bonded cluster) could efficiently decay by transferring its excess 
energy to a neighbouring species that would then emit a low-energy electron. This
intermolecular Coulombic decay (ICD) process has since been shown to be a common 
phenomenon, raising questions about its role in DNA damage induced by ionizing
radiation, in which low-energy electrons are known to play an important part. It 
was recently suggested that ICD can be triggered efficiently and site-selectively
by resonantly core-exciting a target atom, which then transforms through Auger
decay into an ionic species with sufficiently high excitation energy to permit
ICD to occur. Here we show experimentally that resonant Auger decay can indeed
trigger ICD in dimers of both molecular nitrogen and carbon monoxide. By using
ion and electron momentum spectroscopy to measure simultaneously the charged
species created in the resonant-Auger-driven ICD cascade, we find that ICD occurs
in less time than the 20 femtoseconds it would take for individual molecules to
undergo dissociation. Our experimental confirmation of this process and its
efficiency may trigger renewed efforts to develop resonant X-ray excitation
schemes for more localized and targeted cancer radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12927 
PMID: 24362568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):661-3. doi: 10.1038/nature12936. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Site- and energy-selective slow-electron production through intermolecular
Coulombic decay.

Gokhberg K(1), Kolorenč P(2), Kuleff AI(1), Cederbaum LS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Theoretische Chemie, Physikalisch-Chemisches Institut, Universität Heidelberg,
Im Neuenheimer Feld 229, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Institute of Theoretical Physics, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles 
University in Prague, V Holešovičkách 2, 180 00 Prague, Czech Republic.

Irradiation of matter with light tends to electronically excite atoms and
molecules, with subsequent relaxation processes determining where the photon
energy is ultimately deposited and electrons and ions produced. In weakly bound
systems, intermolecular Coulombic decay (ICD) enables very efficient relaxation
of electronic excitation through transfer of the excess energy to neighbouring
atoms or molecules that then lose an electron and become ionized. Here we propose
that the emission site and energy of the electrons released during this process
can be controlled by coupling the ICD to a resonant core excitation. We
illustrate this concept with ab initio many-body calculations on the
argon-krypton model system, where resonant photoabsorption produces an initial or
'parent' excitation of the argon atom, which then triggers a resonant-Auger-ICD
cascade that ends with the emission of a slow electron from the krypton atom. Our
calculations show that the energy of the emitted electrons depends sensitively on
the initial excited state of the argon atom. The incident energy can thus be
adjusted both to produce the initial excitation in a chosen atom and to realize
an excitation that will result in the emission of ICD electrons with desired
energies. These properties of the decay cascade might have consequences for
fundamental and applied radiation biology and could be of interest in the
development of new spectroscopic techniques.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12936 
PMID: 24362566 


877. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):701-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12894. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Genome-wide probing of RNA structure reveals active unfolding of mRNA structures 
in vivo.

Rouskin S(1), Zubradt M(1), Washietl S(2), Kellis M(2), Weissman JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, California Institute of
Quantitative Biology, Center for RNA Systems Biology, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(2)1] Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [2] Computer Science
and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [3] The Broad Institute, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):621-2.

RNA has a dual role as an informational molecule and a direct effector of
biological tasks. The latter function is enabled by RNA's ability to adopt
complex secondary and tertiary folds and thus has motivated extensive
computational and experimental efforts for determining RNA structures. Existing
approaches for evaluating RNA structure have been largely limited to in vitro
systems, yet the thermodynamic forces which drive RNA folding in vitro may not be
sufficient to predict stable RNA structures in vivo. Indeed, the presence of
RNA-binding proteins and ATP-dependent helicases can influence which structures
are present inside cells. Here we present an approach for globally monitoring RNA
structure in native conditions in vivo with single-nucleotide precision. This
method is based on in vivo modification with dimethyl sulphate (DMS), which
reacts with unpaired adenine and cytosine residues, followed by deep sequencing
to monitor modifications. Our data from yeast and mammalian cells are in
excellent agreement with known messenger RNA structures and with the
high-resolution crystal structure of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ribosome.
Comparison between in vivo and in vitro data reveals that in rapidly dividing
cells there are vastly fewer structured mRNA regions in vivo than in vitro. Even 
thermostable RNA structures are often denatured in cells, highlighting the
importance of cellular processes in regulating RNA structure. Indeed, analysis of
mRNA structure under ATP-depleted conditions in yeast shows that energy-dependent
processes strongly contribute to the predominantly unfolded state of mRNAs inside
cells. Our studies broadly enable the functional analysis of physiological RNA
structures and reveal that, in contrast to the Anfinsen view of protein folding
whereby the structure formed is the most thermodynamically favourable,
thermodynamics have an incomplete role in determining mRNA structure in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12894 
PMCID: PMC3966492
PMID: 24336214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):681-685. doi: 10.1038/nature12864. Epub 2013 Dec
15.

Genome-wide dissection of the quorum sensing signalling pathway in Trypanosoma
brucei.

Mony BM(#)(1), MacGregor P(#)(1), Ivens A(1), Rojas F(1), Cowton A(1), Young
J(1), Horn D(2), Matthews K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution, Institute for Immunology and
Infection Research, School of Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh, EH9
3JT, United Kingdom.
(2)Biological Chemistry & Drug discovery, College of Life Sciences, University of
Dundee, Dow Street, Dundee DD1 5EH, United Kingdom.
(#)Contributed equally

The protozoan parasites Trypanosoma brucei spp. cause important human and
livestock diseases in sub-Saharan Africa. In mammalian blood, two developmental
forms of the parasite exist: proliferative 'slender' forms and arrested 'stumpy' 
forms that are responsible for transmission to tsetse flies. The slender to
stumpy differentiation is a density-dependent response that resembles quorum
sensing in microbial systems and is crucial for the parasite life cycle, ensuring
both infection chronicity and disease transmission. This response is triggered by
an elusive 'stumpy induction factor' (SIF) whose intracellular signalling pathway
is also uncharacterized. Laboratory-adapted (monomorphic) trypanosome strains
respond inefficiently to SIF but can generate forms with stumpy characteristics
when exposed to cell-permeable cAMP and AMP analogues. Exploiting this, we have
used a genome-wide RNA interference library screen to identify the signalling
components driving stumpy formation. In separate screens, monomorphic parasites
were exposed to 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP (pCPT-cAMP) or
8-pCPT-2'-O-methyl-5'-AMP to select cells that were unresponsive to these signals
and hence remained proliferative. Genome-wide Ion Torrent based RNAi target
sequencing identified cohorts of genes implicated in each step of the signalling 
pathway, from purine metabolism, through signal transducers (kinases,
phosphatases) to gene expression regulators. Genes at each step were
independently validated in cells naturally capable of stumpy formation,
confirming their role in density sensing in vivo. The putative RNA-binding
protein, RBP7, was required for normal quorum sensing and promoted cell-cycle
arrest and transmission competence when overexpressed. This study reveals that
quorum sensing signalling in trypanosomes shares similarities to fundamental
quiescence pathways in eukaryotic cells, its components providing targets for
quorum-sensing interference-based therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12864 
PMCID: PMC3908871
PMID: 24336212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):691-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12862. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Pan-viral specificity of IFN-induced genes reveals new roles for cGAS in innate
immunity.

Schoggins JW(1), MacDuff DA(2), Imanaka N(3), Gainey MD(4), Shrestha B(5), Eitson
JL(6), Mar KB(6), Richardson RB(6), Ratushny AV(7), Litvak V(8), Dabelic R(9),
Manicassamy B(10), Aitchison JD(7), Aderem A(8), Elliott RM(11), García-Sastre
A(12), Racaniello V(9), Snijder EJ(13), Yokoyama WM(4), Diamond MS(14), Virgin
HW(2), Rice CM(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratory of Virology and Infectious Disease, The Rockefeller University, 
New York, New York 10065, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA (J.W.S.); MRC-University of
Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, Glasgow, Scotland G61 1QH, UK (R.M.E.).
(2)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Virology and Infectious Disease, The Rockefeller University, New
York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)Rheumatology Division, Department of Medicine, and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110,
USA.
(5)Infectious Diseases Division, Department of Medicine and Department of
Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis,
Missouri 63110, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(7)1] Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA [2]
Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(8)Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(9)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Columbia University, New York, New 
York 10032, USA.
(10)Department of Microbiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA.
(11)1] School of Biology, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Scotland KY16
9ST, UK [2] Department of Microbiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA (J.W.S.); MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for
Virus Research, Glasgow, Scotland G61 1QH, UK (R.M.E.).
(12)1] Department of Microbiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, New York 10029, USA [2] Global Health and Emerging Pathogens Institute,
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [3]
Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(13)Department of Medical Microbiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 
2300 RC, The Netherlands.
(14)1] Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA [2] Infectious Diseases Division,
Department of Medicine and Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington
University School of Medicine, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2015 Sep 3;525(7567):144.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2014 Sep;60(3):1098-100.

The type I interferon (IFN) response protects cells from viral infection by
inducing hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), some of which encode
direct antiviral effectors. Recent screening studies have begun to catalogue ISGs
with antiviral activity against several RNA and DNA viruses. However, antiviral
ISG specificity across multiple distinct classes of viruses remains largely
unexplored. Here we used an ectopic expression assay to screen a library of more 
than 350 human ISGs for effects on 14 viruses representing 7 families and 11
genera. We show that 47 genes inhibit one or more viruses, and 25 genes enhance
virus infectivity. Comparative analysis reveals that the screened ISGs target
positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses more effectively than negative-sense
single-stranded RNA viruses. Gene clustering highlights the cytosolic DNA sensor 
cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS, also known as MB21D1) as a gene whose expression
also broadly inhibits several RNA viruses. In vitro, lentiviral delivery of
enzymatically active cGAS triggers a STING-dependent, IRF3-mediated antiviral
program that functions independently of canonical IFN/STAT1 signalling. In vivo, 
genetic ablation of murine cGAS reveals its requirement in the antiviral response
to two DNA viruses, and an unappreciated contribution to the innate control of an
RNA virus. These studies uncover new paradigms for the preferential specificity
of IFN-mediated antiviral pathways spanning several virus families.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12862 
PMCID: PMC4077721
PMID: 24284630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):686-90. doi: 10.1038/nature12861. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Mutational and fitness landscapes of an RNA virus revealed through population
sequencing.

Acevedo A(1), Brodsky L(2), Andino R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, San
Francisco, California 94122-2280, USA.
(2)Tauber Bioinformatics Research Center and Department of Evolutionary &
Environmental Biology, University of Haifa, Mount Carmel, Haifa 31905, Israel.

RNA viruses exist as genetically diverse populations. It is thought that
diversity and genetic structure of viral populations determine the rapid
adaptation observed in RNA viruses and hence their pathogenesis. However, our
understanding of the mechanisms underlying virus evolution has been limited by
the inability to accurately describe the genetic structure of virus populations. 
Next-generation sequencing technologies generate data of sufficient depth to
characterize virus populations, but are limited in their utility because most
variants are present at very low frequencies and are thus indistinguishable from 
next-generation sequencing errors. Here we present an approach that reduces
next-generation sequencing errors and allows the description of virus populations
with unprecedented accuracy. Using this approach, we define the mutation rates of
poliovirus and uncover the mutation landscape of the population. Furthermore, by 
monitoring changes in variant frequencies on serially passaged populations, we
determined fitness values for thousands of mutations across the viral genome.
Mapping of these fitness values onto three-dimensional structures of viral
proteins offers a powerful approach for exploring structure-function
relationships and potentially uncovering new functions. To our knowledge, our
study provides the first single-nucleotide fitness landscape of an evolving RNA
virus and establishes a general experimental platform for studying the genetic
changes underlying the evolution of virus populations.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12861 
PMCID: PMC4111796
PMID: 24284629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):696-700. doi: 10.1038/nature12756. Epub 2013 Nov
24.

In vivo genome-wide profiling of RNA secondary structure reveals novel regulatory
features.

Ding Y(1), Tang Y(2), Kwok CK(3), Zhang Y(4), Bevilacqua PC(5), Assmann SM(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Department of Chemistry, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [3] Center for RNA Molecular
Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA 
[4].
(2)1] Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Center for RNA Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [3] Bioinformatics and
Genomics Graduate Program, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [4].
(3)1] Department of Chemistry, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Center for RNA Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [3].
(4)1] Bioinformatics and Genomics Graduate Program, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Department of
Statistics, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802,
USA.
(5)1] Department of Chemistry, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Center for RNA Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [3] Plant Biology Graduate
Program, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(6)1] Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [2] Center for RNA Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA [3] Bioinformatics and
Genomics Graduate Program, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA [4] Plant Biology Graduate Program, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 30;505(7485):621-2.
    Nat Methods. 2014 Jan;11(1):11.

RNA structure has critical roles in processes ranging from ligand sensing to the 
regulation of translation, polyadenylation and splicing. However, a lack of
genome-wide in vivo RNA structural data has limited our understanding of how RNA 
structure regulates gene expression in living cells. Here we present a
high-throughput, genome-wide in vivo RNA structure probing method, structure-seq,
in which dimethyl sulphate methylation of unprotected adenines and cytosines is
identified by next-generation sequencing. Application of this method to
Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings yielded the first in vivo genome-wide RNA
structure map at nucleotide resolution for any organism, with quantitative
structural information across more than 10,000 transcripts. Our analysis reveals 
a three-nucleotide periodic repeat pattern in the structure of coding regions, as
well as a less-structured region immediately upstream of the start codon, and
shows that these features are strongly correlated with translation efficiency. We
also find patterns of strong and weak secondary structure at sites of alternative
polyadenylation, as well as strong secondary structure at 5' splice sites that
correlates with unspliced events. Notably, in vivo structures of messenger RNAs
annotated for stress responses are poorly predicted in silico, whereas mRNA
structures of genes related to cell function maintenance are well predicted.
Global comparison of several structural features between these two categories
shows that the mRNAs associated with stress responses tend to have more
single-strandedness, longer maximal loop length and higher free energy per
nucleotide, features that may allow these RNAs to undergo conformational changes 
in response to environmental conditions. Structure-seq allows the RNA structurome
and its biological roles to be interrogated on a genome-wide scale and should be 
applicable to any organism.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12756 
PMID: 24270811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):555-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12932.

Oestrogen increases haematopoietic stem-cell self-renewal in females and during
pregnancy.

Nakada D(1), Oguro H(2), Levi BP(3), Ryan N(4), Kitano A(5), Saitoh Y(5),
Takeichi M(5), Wendt GR(3), Morrison SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine Center, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3] Center for Cell and Gene
Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(2)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pediatrics, and Children's
Research Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
Texas 75390, USA.
(3)Life Sciences Institute, Center for Stem Cell Biology, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109, USA.
(4)1] Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2].
(5)Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):488-90.
    Cell Stem Cell. 2014 Feb 6;14(2):137-8.
    EMBO J. 2014 Mar 18;33(6):534-5.

Sexually dimorphic mammalian tissues, including sexual organs and the brain,
contain stem cells that are directly or indirectly regulated by sex hormones. An 
important question is whether stem cells also exhibit sex differences in
physiological function and hormonal regulation in tissues that do not show
sex-specific morphological differences. The terminal differentiation and function
of some haematopoietic cells are regulated by sex hormones, but haematopoietic
stem-cell function is thought to be similar in both sexes. Here we show that
mouse haematopoietic stem cells exhibit sex differences in cell-cycle regulation 
by oestrogen. Haematopoietic stem cells in female mice divide significantly more 
frequently than in male mice. This difference depends on the ovaries but not the 
testes. Administration of oestradiol, a hormone produced mainly in the ovaries,
increased haematopoietic stem-cell division in males and females. Oestrogen
levels increased during pregnancy, increasing haematopoietic stem-cell division, 
haematopoietic stem-cell frequency, cellularity, and erythropoiesis in the
spleen. Haematopoietic stem cells expressed high levels of oestrogen receptor-α
(ERα). Conditional deletion of ERα from haematopoietic stem cells reduced
haematopoietic stem-cell division in female, but not male, mice and attenuated
the increases in haematopoietic stem-cell division, haematopoietic stem-cell
frequency, and erythropoiesis during pregnancy. Oestrogen/ERα signalling promotes
haematopoietic stem-cell self-renewal, expanding splenic haematopoietic stem
cells and erythropoiesis during pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12932 
PMCID: PMC4015622
PMID: 24451543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):538-42. doi: 10.1038/nature12945.

Impacts of the north and tropical Atlantic Ocean on the Antarctic Peninsula and
sea ice.

Li X(1), Holland DM(1), Gerber EP(1), Yoo C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University, 251 Mercer
Street, New York, New York 10012, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):491-2.

In recent decades, Antarctica has experienced pronounced climate changes. The
Antarctic Peninsula exhibited the strongest warming of any region on the planet, 
causing rapid changes in land ice. Additionally, in contrast to the sea-ice
decline over the Arctic, Antarctic sea ice has not declined, but has instead
undergone a perplexing redistribution. Antarctic climate is influenced by, among 
other factors, changes in radiative forcing and remote Pacific climate
variability, but none explains the observed Antarctic Peninsula warming or the
sea-ice redistribution in austral winter. However, in the north and tropical
Atlantic Ocean, the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation (a leading mode of sea
surface temperature variability) has been overlooked in this context. Here we
show that sea surface warming related to the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation
reduces the surface pressure in the Amundsen Sea and contributes to the observed 
dipole-like sea-ice redistribution between the Ross and
Amundsen-Bellingshausen-Weddell seas and to the Antarctic Peninsula warming.
Support for these findings comes from analysis of observational and reanalysis
data, and independently from both comprehensive and idealized atmospheric model
simulations. We suggest that the north and tropical Atlantic is important for
projections of future climate change in Antarctica, and has the potential to
affect the global thermohaline circulation and sea-level change.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12945 
PMID: 24451542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):525-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12918.

Localized sources of water vapour on the dwarf planet (1) Ceres.

Küppers M(1), O'Rourke L(1), Bockelée-Morvan D(2), Zakharov V(2), Lee S(3), von
Allmen P(3), Carry B(4), Teyssier D(1), Marston A(1), Müller T(5), Crovisier
J(2), Barucci MA(2), Moreno R(2).

Author information: 
(1)European Space Agency, European Space Astronomy Centre, PO Box 78, Villanueva 
de la Cañada 28691, Spain.
(2)Laboratoire d'études spatiales et d'instrumentation en astrophysique,
Observatoire de Paris, CNRS, Université Pierre et Marie Curie (UPMC), Université 
Paris-Diderot, 5 Place Jules Janssen, 92195 Meudon, France.
(3)Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, 4800 Oak Grove Drive, La Cañada
Flintridge, California 91011, USA.
(4)1] European Space Agency, European Space Astronomy Centre, PO Box 78,
Villanueva de la Cañada 28691, Spain [2] Institut de Mécanique Céleste et de
Calcul des Éphémérides, Observatoire de Paris, Unité Mixte de Recherche (UMR)
8028, CNRS, 77 Avenue Denfert Rochereau, 75014 Paris, France.
(5)Max-Planck-Institut für extraterrestrische Physik (MPE), Giessenbachstrasse 1,
85748 Garching, Germany.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):487-8.

The 'snowline' conventionally divides Solar System objects into dry bodies,
ranging out to the main asteroid belt, and icy bodies beyond the belt. Models
suggest that some of the icy bodies may have migrated into the asteroid belt.
Recent observations indicate the presence of water ice on the surface of some
asteroids, with sublimation a potential reason for the dust activity observed on 
others. Hydrated minerals have been found on the surface of the largest object in
the asteroid belt, the dwarf planet (1) Ceres, which is thought to be
differentiated into a silicate core with an icy mantle. The presence of water
vapour around Ceres was suggested by a marginal detection of the
photodissociation product of water, hydroxyl (ref. 12), but could not be
confirmed by later, more sensitive observations. Here we report the detection of 
water vapour around Ceres, with at least 10(26) molecules being produced per
second, originating from localized sources that seem to be linked to mid-latitude
regions on the surface. The water evaporation could be due to comet-like
sublimation or to cryo-volcanism, in which volcanoes erupt volatiles such as
water instead of molten rocks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12918 
PMID: 24451541 


885. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):543-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12901. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Mycorrhiza-mediated competition between plants and decomposers drives soil carbon
storage.

Averill C(1), Turner BL(2), Finzi AC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, Graduate Program in Ecology, Evolution and 
Behavior, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.
(2)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Apartado 0843-03092, Balboa, Ancon,
Republic of Panama.
(3)Department of Biology, Boston University, Boston, Masachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):486-7.

Soil contains more carbon than the atmosphere and vegetation combined.
Understanding the mechanisms controlling the accumulation and stability of soil
carbon is critical to predicting the Earth's future climate. Recent studies
suggest that decomposition of soil organic matter is often limited by nitrogen
availability to microbes and that plants, via their fungal symbionts, compete
directly with free-living decomposers for nitrogen. Ectomycorrhizal and ericoid
mycorrhizal (EEM) fungi produce nitrogen-degrading enzymes, allowing them greater
access to organic nitrogen sources than arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. This
leads to the theoretical prediction that soil carbon storage is greater in
ecosystems dominated by EEM fungi than in those dominated by AM fungi. Using
global data sets, we show that soil in ecosystems dominated by EEM-associated
plants contains 70% more carbon per unit nitrogen than soil in ecosystems
dominated by AM-associated plants. The effect of mycorrhizal type on soil carbon 
is independent of, and of far larger consequence than, the effects of net primary
production, temperature, precipitation and soil clay content. Hence the effect of
mycorrhizal type on soil carbon content holds at the global scale. This finding
links the functional traits of mycorrhizal fungi to carbon storage at
ecosystem-to-global scales, suggesting that plant-decomposer competition for
nutrients exerts a fundamental control over the terrestrial carbon cycle.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12901 
PMID: 24402225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):520-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12917. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

A millisecond pulsar in a stellar triple system.

Ransom SM(1), Stairs IH(2), Archibald AM(3), Hessels JW(4), Kaplan DL(5), van
Kerkwijk MH(6), Boyles J(7), Deller AT(8), Chatterjee S(9), Schechtman-Rook
A(10), Berndsen A(2), Lynch RS(11), Lorimer DR(12), Karako-Argaman C(11), Kaspi
VM(11), Kondratiev VI(13), McLaughlin MA(12), van Leeuwen J(4), Rosen R(14),
Roberts MS(15), Stovall K(16).

Author information: 
(1)National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 520 Edgemont Road, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22903-2475, USA.
(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of British Columbia, 6224
Agricultural Road, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z1, Canada.
(3)1] Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Department of Physics, McGill University, 3600
University Street, Montreal, Quebec H3A 2T8, Canada.
(4)1] Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Astronomical Institute 'Anton Pannekoek',
University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)1] Physics Department, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, PO Box 413,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201, USA [2] Department of Astronomy, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 475 North Charter Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1582, USA.
(6)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of Toronto, 50 St George 
Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3H4, Canada.
(7)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, West Virginia University, White Hall, 
Box 6315, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6315, USA [2] Physics and Astronomy
Department, Western Kentucky University, 1906 College Heights Boulevard, Bowling 
Green, Kentucky 42101-1077, USA.
(8)Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands.
(9)Center for Radiophysics and Space Research, Cornell University, 524 Space
Sciences Building, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(10)Department of Astronomy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 475 North Charter
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1582, USA.
(11)Department of Physics, McGill University, 3600 University Street, Montreal,
Quebec H3A 2T8, Canada.
(12)Department of Physics and Astronomy, West Virginia University, White Hall,
Box 6315, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6315, USA.
(13)1] Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Astro Space Center of the Lebedev Physical
Institute, 53 Leninskij Prospekt, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(14)1] National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 520 Edgemont Road, Charlottesville, 
Virginia 22903-2475, USA [2] Department of Physics and Astronomy, West Virginia
University, White Hall, Box 6315, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6315, USA.
(15)1] Eureka Scientific Inc., 2452 Delmer Street, Suite 100, Oakland, California
94602-3017, USA [2] Physics Department, New York University at Abu Dhabi, PO Box 
129188, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(16)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Texas at Brownsville,
One West University Boulevard, Brownsville, Texas 78520, USA [2] Physics and
Astronomy Department, University of New Mexico, 1919 Lomas Boulevard NE,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA.

Gravitationally bound three-body systems have been studied for hundreds of years 
and are common in our Galaxy. They show complex orbital interactions, which can
constrain the compositions, masses and interior structures of the bodies and test
theories of gravity, if sufficiently precise measurements are available. A triple
system containing a radio pulsar could provide such measurements, but the only
previously known such system, PSR B1620-26 (refs 7, 8; with a millisecond pulsar,
a white dwarf, and a planetary-mass object in an orbit of several decades), shows
only weak interactions. Here we report precision timing and multiwavelength
observations of PSR J0337+1715, a millisecond pulsar in a hierarchical triple
system with two other stars. Strong gravitational interactions are apparent and
provide the masses of the pulsar M[Symbol: see text](1.4378(13), where M[Symbol: 
see text]is the solar mass and the parentheses contain the uncertainty in the
final decimal places) and the two white dwarf companions (0.19751(15)M[Symbol:
see text] and 0.4101(3))M[Symbol: see text], as well as the inclinations of the
orbits (both about 39.2°). The unexpectedly coplanar and nearly circular orbits
indicate a complex and exotic evolutionary past that differs from those of known 
stellar systems. The gravitational field of the outer white dwarf strongly
accelerates the inner binary containing the neutron star, and the system will
thus provide an ideal laboratory in which to test the strong equivalence
principle of general relativity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12917 
PMID: 24390352 


887. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):495-501. doi: 10.1038/nature12912. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Discovery and saturation analysis of cancer genes across 21 tumour types.

Lawrence MS(1), Stojanov P(2), Mermel CH(3), Robinson JT(1), Garraway LA(4),
Golub TR(5), Meyerson M(4), Gabriel SB(1), Lander ES(6), Getz G(7).

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(2)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 450 Brookline Avenue, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(3)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Massachusetts General Hospital, Cancer Center and
Department of Pathology, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
(4)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 450 Brookline Avenue, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [3] Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 450 Brookline Avenue, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA [3] Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 4000 Jones 
Bridge Road, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.
(6)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA [3] Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA [4].
(7)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 7 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02142, USA [2] Massachusetts General Hospital, Cancer Center and
Department of Pathology, 55 Fruit Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA [3]
Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [4].

Although a few cancer genes are mutated in a high proportion of tumours of a
given type (>20%), most are mutated at intermediate frequencies (2-20%). To
explore the feasibility of creating a comprehensive catalogue of cancer genes, we
analysed somatic point mutations in exome sequences from 4,742 human cancers and 
their matched normal-tissue samples across 21 cancer types. We found that
large-scale genomic analysis can identify nearly all known cancer genes in these 
tumour types. Our analysis also identified 33 genes that were not previously
known to be significantly mutated in cancer, including genes related to
proliferation, apoptosis, genome stability, chromatin regulation, immune evasion,
RNA processing and protein homeostasis. Down-sampling analysis indicates that
larger sample sizes will reveal many more genes mutated at clinically important
frequencies. We estimate that near-saturation may be achieved with 600-5,000
samples per tumour type, depending on background mutation frequency. The results 
may help to guide the next stage of cancer genomics.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12912 
PMCID: PMC4048962
PMID: 24390350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):528-32. doi: 10.1038/nature12800. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Tunable symmetry breaking and helical edge transport in a graphene quantum spin
Hall state.

Young AF(1), Sanchez-Yamagishi JD(1), Hunt B(1), Choi SH(2), Watanabe K(3),
Taniguchi T(3), Ashoori RC(2), Jarillo-Herrero P(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA [2].
(2)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(3)Advanced Materials Laboratory, National Institute for Materials Science, 1-1
Namiki, Tsukuba 305-0044, Japan.

Low-dimensional electronic systems have traditionally been obtained by
electrostatically confining electrons, either in heterostructures or in
intrinsically nanoscale materials such as single molecules, nanowires and
graphene. Recently, a new method has emerged with the recognition that
symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases, which occur in systems with an
energy gap to quasiparticle excitations (such as insulators or superconductors), 
can host robust surface states that remain gapless as long as the relevant global
symmetry remains unbroken. The nature of the charge carriers in SPT surface
states is intimately tied to the symmetry of the bulk, resulting in one- and
two-dimensional electronic systems with novel properties. For example, time
reversal symmetry endows the massless charge carriers on the surface of a
three-dimensional topological insulator with helicity, fixing the orientation of 
their spin relative to their momentum. Weakly breaking this symmetry generates a 
gap on the surface, resulting in charge carriers with finite effective mass and
exotic spin textures. Analogous manipulations have yet to be demonstrated in
two-dimensional topological insulators, where the primary example of a SPT phase 
is the quantum spin Hall state. Here we demonstrate experimentally that
charge-neutral monolayer graphene has a quantum spin Hall state when it is
subjected to a very large magnetic field angled with respect to the graphene
plane. In contrast to time-reversal-symmetric systems, this state is protected by
a symmetry of planar spin rotations that emerges as electron spins in a
half-filled Landau level are polarized by the large magnetic field. The
properties of the resulting helical edge states can be modulated by balancing the
applied field against an intrinsic antiferromagnetic instability, which tends to 
spontaneously break the spin-rotation symmetry. In the resulting canted
antiferromagnetic state, we observe transport signatures of gapped edge states,
which constitute a new kind of one-dimensional electronic system with a tunable
bandgap and an associated spin texture.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12800 
PMID: 24362569 


889. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):515-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12890. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Architecture of the large subunit of the mammalian mitochondrial ribosome.

Greber BJ(1), Boehringer D(1), Leitner A(2), Bieri P(3), Voigts-Hoffmann F(3),
Erzberger JP(3), Leibundgut M(3), Aebersold R(4), Ban N(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics,
Schafmattstrasse 20, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2].
(2)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology,
Wolfgang-Pauli-Strasse 16, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics,
Schafmattstrasse 20, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)1] Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology,
Wolfgang-Pauli-Strasse 16, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland [2] Faculty of
Science, University of Zurich, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Mitochondrial ribosomes synthesize a number of highly hydrophobic proteins
encoded on the genome of mitochondria, the organelles in eukaryotic cells that
are responsible for energy conversion by oxidative phosphorylation. The ribosomes
in mammalian mitochondria have undergone massive structural changes throughout
their evolution, including ribosomal RNA shortening and acquisition of
mitochondria-specific ribosomal proteins. Here we present the three-dimensional
structure of the 39S large subunit of the porcine mitochondrial ribosome
determined by cryo-electron microscopy at 4.9 Å resolution. The structure,
combined with data from chemical crosslinking and mass spectrometry experiments, 
reveals the unique features of the 39S subunit at near-atomic resolution and
provides detailed insight into the architecture of the polypeptide exit site.
This region of the mitochondrial ribosome has been considerably remodelled
compared to its bacterial counterpart, providing a specialized platform for the
synthesis and membrane insertion of the highly hydrophobic protein components of 
the respiratory chain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12890 
PMID: 24362565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):509-14. doi: 10.1038/nature12940.

Cell death by pyroptosis drives CD4 T-cell depletion in HIV-1 infection.

Doitsh G(1), Galloway NL(1), Geng X(1), Yang Z(2), Monroe KM(2), Zepeda O(2),
Hunt PW(3), Hatano H(3), Sowinski S(2), Muñoz-Arias I(2), Greene WC(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, 1650 Owens Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2].
(2)Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, 1650 Owens Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, 505 Parnassus
Avenue, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.
(4)1] Gladstone Institute of Virology and Immunology, 1650 Owens Street, San
Francisco, California 94158, USA [2] Department of Medicine, University of
California, San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, California 94143,
USA [3] Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, San 
Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2017 Apr 6;544(7648):124.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):492-3.
    Science. 2014 Jan 24;343(6169):383-4.
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2014 Feb;12(2):74-5.

The pathway causing CD4 T-cell death in HIV-infected hosts remains poorly
understood although apoptosis has been proposed as a key mechanism. We now show
that caspase-3-mediated apoptosis accounts for the death of only a small fraction
of CD4 T cells corresponding to those that are both activated and productively
infected. The remaining over 95% of quiescent lymphoid CD4 T cells die by
caspase-1-mediated pyroptosis triggered by abortive viral infection. Pyroptosis
corresponds to an intensely inflammatory form of programmed cell death in which
cytoplasmic contents and pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1β, are
released. This death pathway thus links the two signature events in HIV
infection-CD4 T-cell depletion and chronic inflammation-and creates a pathogenic 
vicious cycle in which dying CD4 T cells release inflammatory signals that
attract more cells to die. This cycle can be broken by caspase 1 inhibitors shown
to be safe in humans, raising the possibility of a new class of 'anti-AIDS'
therapeutics targeting the host rather than the virus.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12940 
PMCID: PMC4047036
PMID: 24356306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):564-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12819. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Glutamine methylation in histone H2A is an RNA-polymerase-I-dedicated
modification.

Tessarz P(1), Santos-Rosa H(1), Robson SC(1), Sylvestersen KB(2), Nelson CJ(3),
Nielsen ML(2), Kouzarides T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2
1QN, UK [2] Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, 
Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK.
(2)Department of Proteomics, The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein
Research, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B,
DK-2200 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)1] Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge CB2
1QN, UK [2] Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, 
Cambridge CB2 1QN, UK [3] Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University
of Victoria, 3800 Finnerty Road, Victoria, British Columbia V8P 5C2, Canada.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Mar;24(3):261-2.

Nucleosomes are decorated with numerous post-translational modifications capable 
of influencing many DNA processes. Here we describe a new class of histone
modification, methylation of glutamine, occurring on yeast histone H2A at
position 105 (Q105) and human H2A at Q104. We identify Nop1 as the
methyltransferase in yeast and demonstrate that fibrillarin is the orthologue
enzyme in human cells. Glutamine methylation of H2A is restricted to the
nucleolus. Global analysis in yeast, using an H2AQ105me-specific antibody, shows 
that this modification is exclusively enriched over the 35S ribosomal DNA
transcriptional unit. We show that the Q105 residue is part of the binding site
for the histone chaperone FACT (facilitator of chromatin transcription) complex. 
Methylation of Q105 or its substitution to alanine disrupts binding to FACT in
vitro. A yeast strain mutated at Q105 shows reduced histone incorporation and
increased transcription at the ribosomal DNA locus. These features are
phenocopied by mutations in FACT complex components. Together these data identify
glutamine methylation of H2A as the first histone epigenetic mark dedicated to a 
specific RNA polymerase and define its function as a regulator of FACT
interaction with nucleosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12819 
PMCID: PMC3901671
PMID: 24352239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):502-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12893. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Immunological and virological mechanisms of vaccine-mediated protection against
SIV and HIV.

Roederer M(1), Keele BF(2), Schmidt SD(1), Mason RD(1), Welles HC(3), Fischer
W(4), Labranche C(5), Foulds KE(1), Louder MK(1), Yang ZY(6), Todd JP(1), Buzby
AP(7), Mach LV(7), Shen L(7), Seaton KE(8), Ward BM(5), Bailer RT(1), Gottardo
R(9), Gu W(10), Ferrari G(5), Alam SM(8), Denny TN(8), Montefiori DC(5), Tomaras 
GD(8), Korber BT(4), Nason MC(10), Seder RA(1), Koup RA(1), Letvin NL(11), Rao
SS(1), Nabel GJ(6), Mascola JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine Research Center, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(2)SAIC-Frederick, Frederick National Laboratory, NIH, Frederick, Maryland 21702,
USA.
(3)1] Vaccine Research Center, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2]
George Washington University, Washington DC 20052, USA.
(4)Los Alamos National Laboratories, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(6)1] Vaccine Research Center, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA [2]
Sanofi-Pasteur, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(7)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(8)Human Vaccine Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
(9)Fred Hutchison Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington 98109, USA.
(10)Biostatistics Research Branch, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(11)1] Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA [2].

A major challenge for the development of a highly effective AIDS vaccine is the
identification of mechanisms of protective immunity. To address this question, we
used a nonhuman primate challenge model with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV).
We show that antibodies to the SIV envelope are necessary and sufficient to
prevent infection. Moreover, sequencing of viruses from breakthrough infections
revealed selective pressure against neutralization-sensitive viruses; we
identified a two-amino-acid signature that alters antigenicity and confers
neutralization resistance. A similar signature confers resistance of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 to neutralization by monoclonal antibodies against
variable regions 1 and 2 (V1V2), suggesting that SIV and HIV share a fundamental 
mechanism of immune escape from vaccine-elicited or naturally elicited
antibodies. These analyses provide insight into the limited efficacy seen in HIV 
vaccine trials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12893 
PMCID: PMC3946913
PMID: 24352234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):546-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12817. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

The genome of the recently domesticated crop plant sugar beet (Beta vulgaris).

Dohm JC(1), Minoche AE(1), Holtgräwe D(2), Capella-Gutiérrez S(3), Zakrzewski
F(4), Tafer H(5), Rupp O(2), Sörensen TR(2), Stracke R(2), Reinhardt R(6),
Goesmann A(2), Kraft T(7), Schulz B(8), Stadler PF(5), Schmidt T(4), Gabaldón
T(9), Lehrach H(10), Weisshaar B(2), Himmelbauer H(11).

Author information: 
(1)1] Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Ihnestraße 63-73, 14195
Berlin, Germany [2] Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), C. Dr. Aiguader 88,
08003 Barcelona, Spain [3] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), C. Dr. Aiguader 88,
08003 Barcelona, Spain [4].
(2)Bielefeld University, CeBiTec and Department of Biology, Universitätsstraße
25, 33615 Bielefeld, Germany.
(3)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), C. Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), C. Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain.
(4)TU Dresden, Department of Biology, Zellescher Weg 20b, 01217 Dresden, Germany.
(5)University of Leipzig, Department of Computer Science, Härtelstraße 16-18,
04107 Leipzig, Germany.
(6)Max Planck Genome Centre Cologne, Carl-von-Linné-Weg 10, 50829 Köln, Germany.
(7)Syngenta, Box 302, 26123 Landskrona, Sweden.
(8)KWS SAAT AG, Grimsehlstraße 31, 37574 Einbeck, Germany.
(9)1] Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), C. Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), C. Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona,
Spain [3] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Pg. Lluís
Companys 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain.
(10)Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Ihnestraße 63-73, 14195 Berlin, 
Germany.
(11)1] Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Ihnestraße 63-73, 14195
Berlin, Germany [2] Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), C. Dr. Aiguader 88,
08003 Barcelona, Spain [3] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), C. Dr. Aiguader 88,
08003 Barcelona, Spain.

Sugar beet (Beta vulgaris ssp. vulgaris) is an important crop of temperate
climates which provides nearly 30% of the world's annual sugar production and is 
a source for bioethanol and animal feed. The species belongs to the order of
Caryophylalles, is diploid with 2n = 18 chromosomes, has an estimated genome size
of 714-758 megabases and shares an ancient genome triplication with other eudicot
plants. Leafy beets have been cultivated since Roman times, but sugar beet is one
of the most recently domesticated crops. It arose in the late eighteenth century 
when lines accumulating sugar in the storage root were selected from crosses made
with chard and fodder beet. Here we present a reference genome sequence for sugar
beet as the first non-rosid, non-asterid eudicot genome, advancing comparative
genomics and phylogenetic reconstructions. The genome sequence comprises 567
megabases, of which 85% could be assigned to chromosomes. The assembly covers a
large proportion of the repetitive sequence content that was estimated to be 63%.
We predicted 27,421 protein-coding genes supported by transcript data and
annotated them on the basis of sequence homology. Phylogenetic analyses provided 
evidence for the separation of Caryophyllales before the split of asterids and
rosids, and revealed lineage-specific gene family expansions and losses. We
sequenced spinach (Spinacia oleracea), another Caryophyllales species, and
validated features that separate this clade from rosids and asterids.
Intraspecific genomic variation was analysed based on the genome sequences of sea
beet (Beta vulgaris ssp. maritima; progenitor of all beet crops) and four
additional sugar beet accessions. We identified seven million variant positions
in the reference genome, and also large regions of low variability, indicating
artificial selection. The sugar beet genome sequence enables the identification
of genes affecting agronomically relevant traits, supports molecular breeding and
maximizes the plant's potential in energy biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12817 
PMID: 24352233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):533-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12780. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Dislocations in bilayer graphene.

Butz B(1), Dolle C(1), Niekiel F(1), Weber K(2), Waldmann D(3), Weber HB(3),
Meyer B(2), Spiecker E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nanoanalysis and Electron Microscopy,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Cauerstraße 6, 91058 Erlangen,
Germany.
(2)Interdisziplinäres Zentrum für Molekulare Materialien und
Computer-Chemie-Centrum, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg,
Nägelsbachstraße 25, 91052 Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Lehrstuhl für Angewandte Physik, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Staudtstraße 7, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.

Dislocations represent one of the most fascinating and fundamental concepts in
materials science. Most importantly, dislocations are the main carriers of
plastic deformation in crystalline materials. Furthermore, they can strongly
affect the local electronic and optical properties of semiconductors and ionic
crystals. In materials with small dimensions, they experience extensive image
forces, which attract them to the surface to release strain energy. However, in
layered crystals such as graphite, dislocation movement is mainly restricted to
the basal plane. Thus, the dislocations cannot escape, enabling their confinement
in crystals as thin as only two monolayers. To explore the nature of dislocations
under such extreme boundary conditions, the material of choice is bilayer
graphene, the thinnest possible quasi-two-dimensional crystal in which such
linear defects can be confined. Homogeneous and robust graphene membranes derived
from high-quality epitaxial graphene on silicon carbide provide an ideal platform
for their investigation. Here we report the direct observation of basal-plane
dislocations in freestanding bilayer graphene using transmission electron
microscopy and their detailed investigation by diffraction contrast analysis and 
atomistic simulations. Our investigation reveals two striking size effects.
First, the absence of stacking-fault energy, a unique property of bilayer
graphene, leads to a characteristic dislocation pattern that corresponds to an
alternating AB B[Symbol: see text]AC change of the stacking order. Second, our
experiments in combination with atomistic simulations reveal a pronounced
buckling of the bilayer graphene membrane that results directly from
accommodation of strain. In fact, the buckling changes the strain state of the
bilayer graphene and is of key importance for its electronic properties. Our
findings will contribute to the understanding of dislocations and of their role
in the structural, mechanical and electronic properties of bilayer and few-layer 
graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12780 
PMID: 24352231 


895. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):559-63. doi: 10.1038/nature12820. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Diet rapidly and reproducibly alters the human gut microbiome.

David LA(1), Maurice CF(2), Carmody RN(2), Gootenberg DB(2), Button JE(2), Wolfe 
BE(2), Ling AV(3), Devlin AS(4), Varma Y(4), Fischbach MA(4), Biddinger SB(3),
Dutton RJ(2), Turnbaugh PJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Society of Fellows, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138, USA [3] Molecular Genetics & Microbiology and Institute for 
Genome Sciences & Policy, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA.
(2)FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA.
(3)Division of Endocrinology, Children's Hospital Boston, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Bioengineering & Therapeutic Sciences and the California
Institute for Quantitative Biosciences, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 94158, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2014 Mar;32(3):243-5.

Long-term dietary intake influences the structure and activity of the trillions
of microorganisms residing in the human gut, but it remains unclear how rapidly
and reproducibly the human gut microbiome responds to short-term macronutrient
change. Here we show that the short-term consumption of diets composed entirely
of animal or plant products alters microbial community structure and overwhelms
inter-individual differences in microbial gene expression. The animal-based diet 
increased the abundance of bile-tolerant microorganisms (Alistipes, Bilophila and
Bacteroides) and decreased the levels of Firmicutes that metabolize dietary plant
polysaccharides (Roseburia, Eubacterium rectale and Ruminococcus bromii).
Microbial activity mirrored differences between herbivorous and carnivorous
mammals, reflecting trade-offs between carbohydrate and protein fermentation.
Foodborne microbes from both diets transiently colonized the gut, including
bacteria, fungi and even viruses. Finally, increases in the abundance and
activity of Bilophila wadsworthia on the animal-based diet support a link between
dietary fat, bile acids and the outgrowth of microorganisms capable of triggering
inflammatory bowel disease. In concert, these results demonstrate that the gut
microbiome can rapidly respond to altered diet, potentially facilitating the
diversity of human dietary lifestyles.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12820 
PMCID: PMC3957428
PMID: 24336217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):550-554. doi: 10.1038/nature12825. Epub 2013 Dec
11.

Rare coding variants in the phospholipase D3 gene confer risk for Alzheimer's
disease.

Cruchaga C(1)(2), Karch CM(#)(1)(2), Jin SC(#)(1), Benitez BA(1), Cai Y(1),
Guerreiro R(3)(4), Harari O(1), Norton J(1), Budde J(1), Bertelsen S(1), Jeng
AT(1), Cooper B(1), Skorupa T(1), Carrell D(1), Levitch D(1), Hsu S(1), Choi
J(1), Ryten M(3)(5), Sassi C(3)(4), Bras J(3), Gibbs RJ(3)(4), Hernandez
DG(3)(4), Lupton MK(6)(7), Powell J(6), Forabosco P(8), Ridge PG(9), Corcoran
CD(10)(11), Tschanz JT(11)(12), Norton MC(11)(12)(13), Munger RG(13)(14), Schmutz
C(9), Leary M(9), Demirci FY(15), Bamne MN(15), Wang X(15), Lopez OL(16)(17),
Ganguli M(18), Medway C(19), Turton J(19), Lord J(19), Braae A(19), Barber I(19),
Brown K(19); Alzheimer's Research UK (ARUK) Consortium, Pastor P(20)(21)(22),
Lorenzo-Betancor O(20), Brkanac Z(23), Scott E(24), Topol E(24), Morgan K(19),
Rogaeva E(25), Singleton A(4), Hardy J(3), Kamboh MI(16)(16)(18), George-Hyslop
PS(25)(26), Cairns N(2)(27), Morris JC(27)(28)(29), Kauwe JSK(9), Goate
AM(1)(2)(28)(29)(30).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(2)Hope Center Program on Protein Aggregation and Neurodegeneration, Washington
University St. Louis, MO, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology, London WC1N 
3BG, UK.
(4)Laboratory of Neurogenetics, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America.
(5)on behalf of UKBEC (UK Brain Expression Consortium).
(6)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(7)Neuroimaging Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane,
Australia.
(8)Istituto di Genetica delle Popolazioni - CNR, Sassari, Italy.
(9)Department of Biology, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, 84602.
(10)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Utah State University, Logan, UT.
(11)Center for Epidemiologic Studies, Utah State University, Logan, UT.
(12)Department of Psychology, Utah State University, Logan, UT.
(13)Department of Family Consumer and Human Development, Utah State University,
Logan, UT.
(14)Department of Nutrition, Dietetics, and Food Sciences, Utah State University,
Logan, UT.
(15)Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA.
(16)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
PA.
(17)Department of Neurology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA.
(18)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA.
(19)Human Genetics, School of Molecular Medical Sciences, University of
Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK.
(20)Neurogenetics Laboratory, Division of Neurosciences, Center for Applied
Medical Research, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(21)Department of Neurology, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, School of Medicine, 
University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(22)CIBERNED, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades
Neurodegenerativas, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Spain.
(23)University of Washington. Seattle, WA.
(24)The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, US.
(25)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of
Toronto.
(26)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, and the Department of Clinical
Neurosciences, University of Cambridge.
(27)Pathology and Immunology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(28)Department of Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(29)Knight ADRC, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(30)Department of Genetics, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nature. 2015 Apr 2;520(7545):E2-3.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 2;520(7545):E3-5.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 2;520(7545):E10.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 2;520(7545):E1.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 2;520(7545):E7-8.
    Nature. 2015 Apr 2;520(7545):E5-6.

Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified several risk variants for 
late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). These common variants have replicable but 
small effects on LOAD risk and generally do not have obvious functional effects. 
Low-frequency coding variants, not detected by GWAS, are predicted to include
functional variants with larger effects on risk. To identify low-frequency coding
variants with large effects on LOAD risk, we carried out whole-exome sequencing
(WES) in 14 large LOAD families and follow-up analyses of the candidate variants 
in several large LOAD case-control data sets. A rare variant in PLD3
(phospholipase D3; Val232Met) segregated with disease status in two independent
families and doubled risk for Alzheimer's disease in seven independent
case-control series with a total of more than 11,000 cases and controls of
European descent. Gene-based burden analyses in 4,387 cases and controls of
European descent and 302 African American cases and controls, with complete
sequence data for PLD3, reveal that several variants in this gene increase risk
for Alzheimer's disease in both populations. PLD3 is highly expressed in brain
regions that are vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease pathology, including
hippocampus and cortex, and is expressed at significantly lower levels in neurons
from Alzheimer's disease brains compared to control brains. Overexpression of
PLD3 leads to a significant decrease in intracellular amyloid-β precursor protein
(APP) and extracellular Aβ42 and Aβ40 (the 42- and 40-residue isoforms of the
amyloid-β peptide), and knockdown of PLD3 leads to a significant increase in
extracellular Aβ42 and Aβ40. Together, our genetic and functional data indicate
that carriers of PLD3 coding variants have a twofold increased risk for LOAD and 
that PLD3 influences APP processing. This study provides an example of how
densely affected families may help to identify rare variants with large effects
on risk for disease or other complex traits.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12825 
PMCID: PMC4050701
PMID: 24336208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):569-73. doi: 10.1038/nature12811. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Structural basis of the alternating-access mechanism in a bile acid transporter.

Zhou X(1), Levin EJ(2), Pan Y(3), McCoy JG(3), Sharma R(4), Kloss B(5), Bruni
R(5), Quick M(6), Zhou M(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Department of
Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA [3].
(2)1] Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2].
(3)Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(4)Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New
York, New York 10032, USA.
(5)New York Consortium on Membrane Protein Structure, New York, New York 10027,
USA.
(6)1] Department of Psychiatry and Center for Molecular Recognition, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA [2] New York State Psychiatric
Institute, Division of Molecular Therapeutics, New York, New York 10032, USA.
(7)1] Verna and Marrs McLean Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Department of
Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Columbia University, New York, New York
10032, USA [3] Ion Channel Research and Drug Development Center, Kunming
Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650223, China.

Bile acids are synthesized from cholesterol in hepatocytes and secreted through
the biliary tract into the small intestine, where they aid in absorption of
lipids and fat-soluble vitamins. Through a process known as enterohepatic
recirculation, more than 90% of secreted bile acids are then retrieved from the
intestine and returned to the liver for resecretion. In humans, there are two
Na(+)-dependent bile acid transporters involved in enterohepatic recirculation,
the Na(+)-taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP; also known as SLC10A1) 
expressed in hepatocytes, and the apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter
(ASBT; also known as SLC10A2) expressed on enterocytes in the terminal ileum. In 
recent years, ASBT has attracted much interest as a potential drug target for
treatment of hypercholesterolaemia, because inhibition of ASBT reduces
reabsorption of bile acids, thus increasing bile acid synthesis and consequently 
cholesterol consumption. However, a lack of three-dimensional structures of bile 
acid transporters hampers our ability to understand the molecular mechanisms of
substrate selectivity and transport, and to interpret the wealth of existing
functional data. The crystal structure of an ASBT homologue from Neisseria
meningitidis (ASBT(NM)) in detergent was reported recently, showing the protein
in an inward-open conformation bound to two Na(+) and a taurocholic acid.
However, the structural changes that bring bile acid and Na(+) across the
membrane are difficult to infer from a single structure. To understand the
structural changes associated with the coupled transport of Na(+) and bile acids,
here we solved two structures of an ASBT homologue from Yersinia frederiksenii
(ASBTYf) in a lipid environment, which reveal that a large rigid-body rotation of
a substrate-binding domain gives the conserved 'crossover' region, where two
discontinuous helices cross each other, alternating accessibility from either
side of the cell membrane. This result has implications for the location and
orientation of the bile acid during transport, as well as for the translocation
pathway for Na(+).

DOI: 10.1038/nature12811 
PMCID: PMC4142352
PMID: 24317697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):399-402. doi: 10.1038/nature12939.

Upwash exploitation and downwash avoidance by flap phasing in ibis formation
flight.

Portugal SJ(1), Hubel TY(1), Fritz J(2), Heese S(2), Trobe D(2), Voelkl B(3),
Hailes S(4), Wilson AM(1), Usherwood JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Structure & Motion Laboratory, the Royal Veterinary College, University of
London, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL9 7TA, UK.
(2)Waldrappteam, Schulgasse 28, 6162 Mutters, Austria.
(3)1] Waldrappteam, Schulgasse 28, 6162 Mutters, Austria [2] Institute for
Theoretical Biology, Humboldt University at Berlin, Invalidenstrasse 43, 10115
Berlin, Germany [3] Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK.
(4)1] Structure & Motion Laboratory, the Royal Veterinary College, University of 
London, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL9 7TA, UK [2] Department of Computer Science,
University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):295-6.

Many species travel in highly organized groups. The most quoted function of these
configurations is to reduce energy expenditure and enhance locomotor performance 
of individuals in the assemblage. The distinctive V formation of bird flocks has 
long intrigued researchers and continues to attract both scientific and popular
attention. The well-held belief is that such aggregations give an energetic
benefit for those birds that are flying behind and to one side of another bird
through using the regions of upwash generated by the wings of the preceding bird,
although a definitive account of the aerodynamic implications of these formations
has remained elusive. Here we show that individuals of northern bald ibises
(Geronticus eremita) flying in a V flock position themselves in aerodynamically
optimum positions, in that they agree with theoretical aerodynamic predictions.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that birds show wingtip path coherence when flying in
V positions, flapping spatially in phase and thus enabling upwash capture to be
maximized throughout the entire flap cycle. In contrast, when birds fly
immediately behind another bird--in a streamwise position--there is no wingtip
path coherence; the wing-beats are in spatial anti-phase. This could potentially 
reduce the adverse effects of downwash for the following bird. These aerodynamic 
accomplishments were previously not thought possible for birds because of the
complex flight dynamics and sensory feedback that would be required to perform
such a feat. We conclude that the intricate mechanisms involved in V formation
flight indicate awareness of the spatial wake structures of nearby flock-mates,
and remarkable ability either to sense or predict it. We suggest that birds in V 
formation have phasing strategies to cope with the dynamic wakes produced by
flapping wings.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12939 
PMID: 24429637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):391-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12913.

A signature of transience in bedrock river incision rates over timescales of
10(4)-10(7) years.

Finnegan NJ(1), Schumer R(2), Finnegan S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California Santa
Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(2)Division of Hydrologic Sciences, Desert Research Institute, Reno, Nevada
89512, USA.
(3)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California Berkeley,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):294-5.

Measured rates of river incision into bedrock are commonly interpreted as proxies
for rates of rock uplift (see refs 1 and 2, for example) and indices of the
strength of climatic forcing of erosion over time (see refs 3 and 4, for
example). This approach implicitly assumes that river incision rates are in
equilibrium with external forcings over a wide range of timescales. Here we
directly test this assumption by examining the temporal scaling of bedrock river 
incision from 155 independent measurements of river incision compiled from 14
sites. Of these sites, 11 exhibit a negative power-law dependence of bedrock
river incision rate on measurement interval, a relationship that is apparent over
timescales of 10(4)-10(7) years and is independent of tectonic and geomorphic
setting. Thus, like rates of sediment accumulation, rates of river incision into 
bedrock exhibit non-steady-state behaviour even over very long measurement
intervals. Non-steady-state behaviour can be explained by episodic hiatuses in
river incision triggered by alluvial deposition, if such hiatuses have a
heavy-tailed length distribution. Regardless of its cause, the dependence of
incision rate on measurement interval complicates efforts to infer tectonic or
climatic forcing from changes in rates of river incision over time or from
comparison of rates computed over different timescales.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12913 
PMID: 24429636 


900. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):378-81. doi: 10.1038/nature12916.

A Be-type star with a black-hole companion.

Casares J(1), Negueruela I(2), Ribó M(3), Ribas I(4), Paredes JM(3), Herrero
A(1), Simón-Díaz S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, E-38205 La Laguna, Santa Cruz de
Tenerife, Spain [2] Departamento de Astrofísica, Universidad de La Laguna,
E-38206 La Laguna, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Física, Ingeniería de Sistemas y Teoría de la Señal,
Universidad de Alicante, Apartado 99, E-03080 Alicante, Spain.
(3)Departament d'Astronomia i Meteorologia, Institut de Ciències del Cosmos,
Universitat de Barcelona, IEEC-UB, Martí i Franquès 1, E-08028 Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Institut de Ciències de l'Espai-(IEEC-CSIC), Campus UAB, Facultat de Ciències,
Torre C5 - parell - 2a planta, E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):296-7.

Stellar-mass black holes have all been discovered through X-ray emission, which
arises from the accretion of gas from their binary companions (this gas is either
stripped from low-mass stars or supplied as winds from massive ones). Binary
evolution models also predict the existence of black holes accreting from the
equatorial envelope of rapidly spinning Be-type stars (stars of the Be type are
hot blue irregular variables showing characteristic spectral emission lines of
hydrogen). Of the approximately 80 Be X-ray binaries known in the Galaxy,
however, only pulsating neutron stars have been found as companions. A black hole
was formally allowed as a solution for the companion to the Be star MWC 656 (ref.
5; also known as HD 215227), although that conclusion was based on a single
radial velocity curve of the Be star, a mistaken spectral classification and
rough estimates of the inclination angle. Here we report observations of an
accretion disk line mirroring the orbit of MWC 656. This, together with an
improved radial velocity curve of the Be star through fitting sharp Fe II
profiles from the equatorial disk, and a refined Be classification (to that of a 
B1.5-B2 III star), indicates that a black hole of 3.8 to 6.9 solar masses orbits 
MWC 656, the candidate counterpart of the γ-ray source AGL J2241+4454 (refs 5,
6). The black hole is X-ray quiescent and fed by a radiatively inefficient
accretion flow giving a luminosity less than 1.6 × 10(-7) times the Eddington
luminosity. This implies that Be binaries with black-hole companions are
difficult to detect in conventional X-ray surveys.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12916 
PMID: 24429635 


901. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):353-359. doi: 10.1038/nature12987.

PIWI proteins and PIWI-interacting RNAs in the soma.

Ross RJ(#)(1), Weiner MM(#)(1), Lin H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yale Stem Cell Center and Department of Cell Biology, Yale University School
of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06509, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

The discovery of millions of PIWI-interacting RNAs revealed a fascinating and
unanticipated dimension of biology. The PIWI-piRNA pathway has been commonly
perceived as germline-specific, even though the somatic function of PIWI proteins
was documented when they were first discovered. Recent studies have begun to
re-explore this pathway in somatic cells in diverse organisms, particularly lower
eukaryotes. These studies have illustrated the multifaceted somatic functions of 
the pathway not only in transposon silencing but also in genome rearrangement and
epigenetic programming, with biological roles in stem-cell function, whole-body
regeneration, memory and possibly cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12987 
PMCID: PMC4265809
PMID: 24429634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):344-52. doi: 10.1038/nature12986.

The multilayered complexity of ceRNA crosstalk and competition.

Tay Y(1), Rinn J(2), Pandolfi PP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Beth Israel Deaconess Cancer Center, Department of 
Medicine and Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.
(2)1] Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston,
Massachusetts 02215, USA. [2] Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. [3] Broad Institute of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142, USA.

Recent reports have described an intricate interplay among diverse RNA species,
including protein-coding messenger RNAs and non-coding RNAs such as long
non-coding RNAs, pseudogenes and circular RNAs. These RNA transcripts act as
competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) or natural microRNA sponges - they communicate
with and co-regulate each other by competing for binding to shared microRNAs, a
family of small non-coding RNAs that are important post-transcriptional
regulators of gene expression. Understanding this novel RNA crosstalk will lead
to significant insight into gene regulatory networks and have implications in
human development and disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12986 
PMCID: PMC4113481
PMID: 24429633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):335-43. doi: 10.1038/nature12985.

Mitochondrial form and function.

Friedman JR(1), Nunnari J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, College of Biological Sciences, 
University of California, Davis, California 95616, USA.

Mitochondria are one of the major ancient endomembrane systems in eukaryotic
cells. Owing to their ability to produce ATP through respiration, they became a
driving force in evolution. As an essential step in the process of eukaryotic
evolution, the size of the mitochondrial chromosome was drastically reduced, and 
the behaviour of mitochondria within eukaryotic cells radically changed. Recent
advances have revealed how the organelle's behaviour has evolved to allow the
accurate transmission of its genome and to become responsive to the needs of the 
cell and its own dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12985 
PMCID: PMC4075653
PMID: 24429632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):327-34. doi: 10.1038/nature12984.

The bone marrow niche for haematopoietic stem cells.

Morrison SJ(1), Scadden DT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Children's Research Institute, Department of 
Pediatrics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390,
USA.
(2)Center for Regenerative Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Stem
Cell Institute and the Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

Niches are local tissue microenvironments that maintain and regulate stem cells. 
Haematopoiesis provides a model for understanding mammalian stem cells and their 
niches, but the haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) niche remains incompletely defined
and beset by competing models. Recent progress has been made in elucidating the
location and cellular components of the HSC niche in the bone marrow. The niche
is perivascular, created partly by mesenchymal stromal cells and endothelial
cells and often, but not always, located near trabecular bone. Outstanding
questions concern the cellular complexity of the niche, the role of the endosteum
and functional heterogeneity among perivascular microenvironments.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12984 
PMCID: PMC4514480
PMID: 24429631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):318-26. doi: 10.1038/nature12983.

Interneuron cell types are fit to function.

Kepecs A(1), Fishell G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Marks Building, New York 11724, USA.
(2)NYU Langone Medical Center, First Avenue, Smilow Research Building, New York
10016, USA.

Understanding brain circuits begins with an appreciation of their component parts
- the cells. Although GABAergic interneurons are a minority population within the
brain, they are crucial for the control of inhibition. Determining the diversity 
of these interneurons has been a central goal of neurobiologists, but this
amazing cell type has so far defied a generalized classification system.
Interneuron complexity within the telencephalon could be simplified by viewing
them as elaborations of a much more finite group of developmentally specified
cardinal classes that become further specialized as they mature. Our perspective 
emphasizes that the ultimate goal is to dispense with classification criteria and
directly define interneuron types by function.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12983 
PMCID: PMC4349583
PMID: 24429630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):309-17. doi: 10.1038/nature12982.

Circuit dynamics of adaptive and maladaptive behaviour.

Deisseroth K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA. [2] Department of Psychiatry, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305, USA. [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California 94305, USA.

The recent development of technologies for investigating specific components of
intact biological systems has allowed elucidation of the neural circuitry
underlying adaptive and maladaptive behaviours. Investigators are now able to
observe and control, with high spatio-temporal resolution, structurally defined
intact pathways along which electrical activity flows during and after the
performance of complex behaviours. These investigations have revealed that
control of projection-specific dynamics is well suited to modulating behavioural 
patterns that are relevant to a broad range of psychiatric diseases. Structural
dynamics principles have emerged to provide diverse, unexpected and causal
insights into the operation of intact and diseased nervous systems, linking form 
and function in the brain.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12982 
PMCID: PMC4069282
PMID: 24429629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):302-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12981.

Realizing the promise of cancer predisposition genes.

Rahman N(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, Institute of Cancer Research, London
SW2 5NG, UK. [2] Cancer Genetics Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital Foundation Trust,
London SM2 5PT, UK.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Jun 5;510(7503):176.

Genes in which germline mutations confer highly or moderately increased risks of 
cancer are called cancer predisposition genes. More than 100 of these genes have 
been identified, providing important scientific insights in many areas,
particularly the mechanisms of cancer causation. Moreover, clinical utilization
of cancer predisposition genes has had a substantial impact on diagnosis,
optimized management and prevention of cancer. The recent transformative advances
in DNA sequencing hold the promise of many more cancer predisposition gene
discoveries, and greater and broader clinical applications. However, there is
also considerable potential for incorrect inferences and inappropriate clinical
applications. Realizing the promise of cancer predisposition genes for science
and medicine will thus require careful navigation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12981 
PMCID: PMC4975511
PMID: 24429628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):372-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12928. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

UvrD facilitates DNA repair by pulling RNA polymerase backwards.

Epshtein V(1), Kamarthapu V(2), McGary K(3), Svetlov V(3), Ueberheide B(3),
Proshkin S(4), Mironov A(5), Nudler E(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University 
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2].
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University 
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA 
[3].
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.
(4)State Research Institute of Genetics and Selection of Industrial
Microorganisms, Moscow 117545, Russia.
(5)1] State Research Institute of Genetics and Selection of Industrial
Microorganisms, Moscow 117545, Russia [2] Engelhardt Institute of Molecular
Biology, Russian Academy of Science, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(6)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, New York University 
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(8):1213-5.
    Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):298-9.

UvrD helicase is required for nucleotide excision repair, although its role in
this process is not well defined. Here we show that Escherichia coli UvrD binds
RNA polymerase during transcription elongation and, using its
helicase/translocase activity, forces RNA polymerase to slide backward along DNA.
By inducing backtracking, UvrD exposes DNA lesions shielded by blocked RNA
polymerase, allowing nucleotide excision repair enzymes to gain access to sites
of damage. Our results establish UvrD as a bona fide transcription elongation
factor that contributes to genomic integrity by resolving conflicts between
transcription and DNA repair complexes. Furthermore, we show that the elongation 
factor NusA cooperates with UvrD in coupling transcription to DNA repair by
promoting backtracking and recruiting nucleotide excision repair enzymes to
exposed lesions. Because backtracking is a shared feature of all cellular RNA
polymerases, we propose that this mechanism enables RNA polymerases to function
as global DNA damage scanners in bacteria and eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12928 
PMCID: PMC4471481
PMID: 24402227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):427-31. doi: 10.1038/nature12810. Epub 2013 Dec 22.

Trapping the dynamic acyl carrier protein in fatty acid biosynthesis.

Nguyen C(1), Haushalter RW(2), Lee DJ(2), Markwick PR(3), Bruegger J(4),
Caldara-Festin G(4), Finzel K(5), Jackson DR(4), Ishikawa F(5), O'Dowd B(5),
McCammon JA(6), Opella SJ(5), Tsai SC(4), Burkart MD(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Departments of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Chemistry, and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, Irvine, California 92697, USA 
[2].
(2)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] San Diego Supercomputer Center, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA.
(4)Departments of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Chemistry, and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, Irvine, California 92697, USA.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California 92093, USA.
(6)1] Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA.

Acyl carrier protein (ACP) transports the growing fatty acid chain between
enzymatic domains of fatty acid synthase (FAS) during biosynthesis. Because FAS
enzymes operate on ACP-bound acyl groups, ACP must stabilize and transport the
growing lipid chain. ACPs have a central role in transporting starting materials 
and intermediates throughout the fatty acid biosynthetic pathway. The transient
nature of ACP-enzyme interactions impose major obstacles to obtaining
high-resolution structural information about fatty acid biosynthesis, and a new
strategy is required to study protein-protein interactions effectively. Here we
describe the application of a mechanism-based probe that allows active
site-selective covalent crosslinking of AcpP to FabA, the Escherichia coli ACP
and fatty acid 3-hydroxyacyl-ACP dehydratase, respectively. We report the 1.9 Å
crystal structure of the crosslinked AcpP-FabA complex as a homodimer in which
AcpP exhibits two different conformations, representing probable snapshots of ACP
in action: the 4'-phosphopantetheine group of AcpP first binds an arginine-rich
groove of FabA, then an AcpP helical conformational change locks AcpP and FabA in
place. Residues at the interface of AcpP and FabA are identified and validated by
solution nuclear magnetic resonance techniques, including chemical shift
perturbations and residual dipolar coupling measurements. These not only support 
our interpretation of the crystal structures but also provide an animated view of
ACP in action during fatty acid dehydration. These techniques, in combination
with molecular dynamics simulations, show for the first time that FabA extrudes
the sequestered acyl chain from the ACP binding pocket before dehydration by
repositioning helix III. Extensive sequence conservation among carrier proteins
suggests that the mechanistic insights gleaned from our studies may be broadly
applicable to fatty acid, polyketide and non-ribosomal biosynthesis. Here the
foundation is laid for defining the dynamic action of carrier-protein activity in
primary and secondary metabolism, providing insight into pathways that can have
major roles in the treatment of cancer, obesity and infectious disease.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12810 
PMCID: PMC4437705
PMID: 24362570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):361-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12818. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

CNVs conferring risk of autism or schizophrenia affect cognition in controls.

Stefansson H(1), Meyer-Lindenberg A(2), Steinberg S(3), Magnusdottir B(4), Morgen
K(5), Arnarsdottir S(6), Bjornsdottir G(3), Walters GB(3), Jonsdottir GA(3),
Doyle OM(7), Tost H(5), Grimm O(5), Kristjansdottir S(3), Snorrason H(3),
Davidsdottir SR(4), Gudmundsson LJ(3), Jonsson GF(3), Stefansdottir B(3),
Helgadottir I(4), Haraldsson M(8), Jonsdottir B(9), Thygesen JH(10), Schwarz
AJ(11), Didriksen M(12), Stensbøl TB(12), Brammer M(7), Kapur S(7), Halldorsson
JG(13), Hreidarsson S(14), Saemundsen E(15), Sigurdsson E(8), Stefansson K(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] deCODE genetics/Amgen, Sturlugata 8, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland [2].
(2)1] Central Institute of Mental Health, University of Heidelberg Medical
Faculty Mannheim, 68159 Mannheim, Germany [2].
(3)deCODE genetics/Amgen, Sturlugata 8, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland.
(4)Landspitali, Department of Psychiatry, National University Hospital, IS-101
Reykjavík, Iceland.
(5)Central Institute of Mental Health, University of Heidelberg Medical Faculty
Mannheim, 68159 Mannheim, Germany.
(6)1] deCODE genetics/Amgen, Sturlugata 8, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland [2]
Landspitali, Department of Psychiatry, National University Hospital, IS-101
Reykjavík, Iceland.
(7)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College, 16 De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF,
UK.
(8)1] Landspitali, Department of Psychiatry, National University Hospital, IS-101
Reykjavík, Iceland [2] University of Iceland, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Iceland, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland.
(9)Röntgen Domus, Egilsgötu 3, IS-101 Reykjavík, Iceland.
(10)Mental Health Centre Sct. Hans, Copenhagen University Hospital, Research
Institute of Biological Psychiatry, Boserupvej 2, DK-4000 Roskilde, Denmark.
(11)Tailored Therapeutics, Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company,
Lilly Corporate Center DC 1940, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285, USA.
(12)H. Lundbeck A/S, Ottiliavej 9, DK-2500 Valby, Denmark.
(13)University of Iceland, Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, IS-101
Reykjavík, Iceland.
(14)The State Diagnostic and Counselling Centre, Digranesvegur 5, IS-200
Kópavogur, Iceland.
(15)1] University of Iceland, Faculty of Medicine, University of Iceland, IS-101 
Reykjavík, Iceland [2] The State Diagnostic and Counselling Centre, Digranesvegur
5, IS-200 Kópavogur, Iceland.

In a small fraction of patients with schizophrenia or autism, alleles of
copy-number variants (CNVs) in their genomes are probably the strongest factors
contributing to the pathogenesis of the disease. These CNVs may provide an entry 
point for investigations into the mechanisms of brain function and dysfunction
alike. They are not fully penetrant and offer an opportunity to study their
effects separate from that of manifest disease. Here we show in an Icelandic
sample that a few of the CNVs clearly alter fecundity (measured as the number of 
children by age 45). Furthermore, we use various tests of cognitive function to
demonstrate that control subjects carrying the CNVs perform at a level that is
between that of schizophrenia patients and population controls. The CNVs do not
all affect the same cognitive domains, hence the cognitive deficits that drive or
accompany the pathogenesis vary from one CNV to another. Controls carrying the
chromosome 15q11.2 deletion between breakpoints 1 and 2 (15q11.2(BP1-BP2)
deletion) have a history of dyslexia and dyscalculia, even after adjusting for IQ
in the analysis, and the CNV only confers modest effects on other cognitive
traits. The 15q11.2(BP1-BP2) deletion affects brain structure in a pattern
consistent with both that observed during first-episode psychosis in
schizophrenia and that of structural correlates in dyslexia.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12818 
PMID: 24352232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):386-90. doi: 10.1038/nature12781. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Asymmetric synthesis from terminal alkenes by cascades of diboration and
cross-coupling.

Mlynarski SN(1), Schuster CH(1), Morken JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Merkert Chemistry Center, Boston College, Chestnut
Hill, Massachusetts 02467, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 27;506(7489):516.

Terminal, monosubstituted alkenes are ideal prospective starting materials for
organic synthesis because they are manufactured on very large scales and can be
functionalized via a broad range of chemical transformations. Alkenes also have
the attractive feature of being stable in the presence of many acids, bases,
oxidants and reductants. In spite of these attributes, relatively few catalytic
enantioselective transformations have been developed that transform aliphatic
α-olefins into chiral products with an enantiomeric excess greater then 90 per
cent. With the exception of site-controlled isotactic polymerization of
α-olefins, none of these catalytic enantioselective processes results in
chain-extending carbon-carbon bond formation to the terminal carbon. Here we
describe a strategy that directly addresses this gap in synthetic methodology,
and present a single-flask, catalytic enantioselective conversion of terminal
alkenes into a number of chiral products. These reactions are facilitated by a
neighbouring functional group that accelerates palladium-catalysed cross-coupling
of 1,2-bis(boronates) relative to non-functionalized alkyl boronate analogues. In
tandem with enantioselective diboration, this reactivity feature transforms
alkene starting materials into a diverse array of chiral products. We note that
the tandem diboration/cross-coupling reaction generally provides products in high
yield and high selectivity (>95:5 enantiomer ratio), uses low loadings (1-2 mol
per cent) of commercially available catalysts and reagents, offers an expansive
substrate scope, and can address a broad range of alcohol and amine synthesis
targets, many of which cannot be easily addressed with current technology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12781 
PMCID: PMC3947102
PMID: 24352229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):382-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12806. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Nanoparticle solutions as adhesives for gels and biological tissues.

Rose S(1), Prevoteau A(2), Elzière P(1), Hourdet D(1), Marcellan A(3), Leibler
L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Physico-chimie des Polymères et Milieux Dispersés (UMR7615 UPMC/ESPCI/CNRS),
Université Pierre et Marie Curie, École Supérieure de Physique et de Chimie
industrielles, 75005 Paris, France.
(2)Matière Molle et Chimie (UMR 7167 CNRS/ESPCI), École Supérieure de Physique et
de Chimie Industrielles, 75005 Paris, France.
(3)1] Physico-chimie des Polymères et Milieux Dispersés (UMR7615
UPMC/ESPCI/CNRS), Université Pierre et Marie Curie, École Supérieure de Physique 
et de Chimie industrielles, 75005 Paris, France [2] Matière Molle et Chimie (UMR 
7167 CNRS/ESPCI), École Supérieure de Physique et de Chimie Industrielles, 75005 
Paris, France.

Comment in
    Nat Mater. 2014 Mar;13(3):231-2.

Adhesives are made of polymers because, unlike other materials, polymers ensure
good contact between surfaces by covering asperities, and retard the fracture of 
adhesive joints by dissipating energy under stress. But using polymers to 'glue' 
together polymer gels is difficult, requiring chemical reactions, heating, pH
changes, ultraviolet irradiation or an electric field. Here we show that strong, 
rapid adhesion between two hydrogels can be achieved at room temperature by
spreading a droplet of a nanoparticle solution on one gel's surface and then
bringing the other gel into contact with it. The method relies on the
nanoparticles' ability to adsorb onto polymer gels and to act as connectors
between polymer chains, and on the ability of polymer chains to reorganize and
dissipate energy under stress when adsorbed onto nanoparticles. We demonstrate
this approach by pressing together pieces of hydrogels, for approximately 30
seconds, that have the same or different chemical properties or rigidities, using
various solutions of silica nanoparticles, to achieve a strong bond. Furthermore,
we show that carbon nanotubes and cellulose nanocrystals that do not bond
hydrogels together become adhesive when their surface chemistry is modified. To
illustrate the promise of the method for biological tissues, we also glued
together two cut pieces of calf's liver using a solution of silica nanoparticles.
As a rapid, simple and efficient way to assemble gels or tissues, this method is 
desirable for many emerging technological and medical applications such as
microfluidics, actuation, tissue engineering and surgery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12806 
PMID: 24336207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):432-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12816. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Icosahedral bacteriophage ΦX174 forms a tail for DNA transport during infection.

Sun L(1), Young LN(2), Zhang X(1), Boudko SP(3), Fokine A(4), Zbornik E(4),
Roznowski AP(5), Molineux IJ(6), Rossmann MG(4), Fane BA(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
Indiana 47907, USA [2].
(2)1] School of Plant Sciences and the BIO5 Institute, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
Indiana 47907, USA [2] The Research Department, Shriner's Hospital for Children, 
Portland, Oregon 97239, USA.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 
47907, USA.
(5)School of Plant Sciences and the BIO5 Institute, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.
(6)Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Institute for Cell and Molecular Biology,
The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA.

Prokaryotic viruses have evolved various mechanisms to transport their genomes
across bacterial cell walls. Many bacteriophages use a tail to perform this
function, whereas tail-less phages rely on host organelles. However, the
tail-less, icosahedral, single-stranded DNA ΦX174-like coliphages do not fall
into these well-defined infection processes. For these phages, DNA delivery
requires a DNA pilot protein. Here we show that the ΦX174 pilot protein H
oligomerizes to form a tube whose function is most probably to deliver the DNA
genome across the host's periplasmic space to the cytoplasm. The 2.4 Å resolution
crystal structure of the in vitro assembled H protein's central domain consists
of a 170 Å-long α-helical barrel. The tube is constructed of ten α-helices with
their amino termini arrayed in a right-handed super-helical coiled-coil and their
carboxy termini arrayed in a left-handed super-helical coiled-coil. Genetic and
biochemical studies demonstrate that the tube is essential for infectivity but
does not affect in vivo virus assembly. Cryo-electron tomograms show that tubes
span the periplasmic space and are present while the genome is being delivered
into the host cell's cytoplasm. Both ends of the H protein contain transmembrane 
domains, which anchor the assembled tubes into the inner and outer cell
membranes. The central channel of the H-protein tube is lined with amide and
guanidinium side chains. This may be a general property of viral DNA conduits and
is likely to be critical for efficient genome translocation into the host.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12816 
PMID: 24336205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):417-21. doi: 10.1038/nature12791. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Cytokinin signalling inhibitory fields provide robustness to phyllotaxis.

Besnard F(1), Refahi Y(2), Morin V(3), Marteaux B(4), Brunoud G(4), Chambrier
P(5), Rozier F(5), Mirabet V(6), Legrand J(7), Lainé S(5), Thévenon E(8), Farcot 
E(9), Cellier C(5), Das P(6), Bishopp A(10), Dumas R(8), Parcy F(8), Helariutta
Y(11), Boudaoud A(6), Godin C(2), Traas J(5), Guédon Y(2), Vernoux T(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France [2] IBENS, ENS, 75005 Paris,
France (F.B.); UMR CNRS 5534, Université Claude Bernard Lyon I, Bâtiment Gregor
Mendel, 16 rue Raphaël Dubois, 69622 Villeurbanne, France (V.M.); University of
Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK (E.F); University of
Nottingham, Sutton Bonington LE12 5RD, UK (A.Bi.).
(2)Virtual Plants INRIA/CIRAD/INRA Project Team, UMR AGAP, Institut de Biologie
Computationelle, 34095 Montpellier, France.
(3)1] Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France [2] IBENS, ENS, 75005 Paris,
France (F.B.); UMR CNRS 5534, Université Claude Bernard Lyon I, Bâtiment Gregor
Mendel, 16 rue Raphaël Dubois, 69622 Villeurbanne, France (V.M.); University of
Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK (E.F); University of
Nottingham, Sutton Bonington LE12 5RD, UK (A.Bi.). [3].
(4)1] Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France [2].
(5)Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France.
(6)1] Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France [2] Laboratoire Joliot-Curie, 
CNRS, ENS Lyon, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France.
(7)1] Laboratoire de Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, CNRS, INRA, ENS
Lyon, UCBL, Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France [2] Virtual Plants
INRIA/CIRAD/INRA Project Team, UMR AGAP, Institut de Biologie Computationelle,
34095 Montpellier, France [3] Laboratoire Joliot-Curie, CNRS, ENS Lyon,
Université de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France.
(8)Laboratoire Physiologie Cellulaire et Végétale, CEA, CNRS, INRA, UJF, 38041
Grenoble, France.
(9)1] Virtual Plants INRIA/CIRAD/INRA Project Team, UMR AGAP, Institut de
Biologie Computationelle, 34095 Montpellier, France [2] IBENS, ENS, 75005 Paris, 
France (F.B.); UMR CNRS 5534, Université Claude Bernard Lyon I, Bâtiment Gregor
Mendel, 16 rue Raphaël Dubois, 69622 Villeurbanne, France (V.M.); University of
Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK (E.F); University of
Nottingham, Sutton Bonington LE12 5RD, UK (A.Bi.).
(10)1] Institute of Biotechnology/Department of Biosciences, University of
Helsinki, FIN-00014, Finland [2] IBENS, ENS, 75005 Paris, France (F.B.); UMR CNRS
5534, Université Claude Bernard Lyon I, Bâtiment Gregor Mendel, 16 rue Raphaël
Dubois, 69622 Villeurbanne, France (V.M.); University of Nottingham, University
Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK (E.F); University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington
LE12 5RD, UK (A.Bi.).
(11)Institute of Biotechnology/Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki,
FIN-00014, Finland.

How biological systems generate reproducible patterns with high precision is a
central question in science. The shoot apical meristem (SAM), a specialized
tissue producing plant aerial organs, is a developmental system of choice to
address this question. Organs are periodically initiated at the SAM at specific
spatial positions and this spatiotemporal pattern defines phyllotaxis.
Accumulation of the plant hormone auxin triggers organ initiation, whereas auxin 
depletion around organs generates inhibitory fields that are thought to be
sufficient to maintain these patterns and their dynamics. Here we show that
another type of hormone-based inhibitory fields, generated directly downstream of
auxin by intercellular movement of the cytokinin signalling inhibitor ARABIDOPSIS
HISTIDINE PHOSPHOTRANSFER PROTEIN 6 (AHP6), is involved in regulating
phyllotactic patterns. We demonstrate that AHP6-based fields establish patterns
of cytokinin signalling in the meristem that contribute to the robustness of
phyllotaxis by imposing a temporal sequence on organ initiation. Our findings
indicate that not one but two distinct hormone-based fields may be required for
achieving temporal precision during formation of reiterative structures at the
SAM, thus indicating an original mechanism for providing robustness to a dynamic 
developmental system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12791 
PMID: 24336201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):395-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12797. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Amazon River carbon dioxide outgassing fuelled by wetlands.

Abril G(1), Martinez JM(2), Artigas LF(3), Moreira-Turcq P(2), Benedetti MF(4),
Vidal L(5), Meziane T(6), Kim JH(7), Bernardes MC(8), Savoye N(9), Deborde J(9), 
Souza EL(10), Albéric P(11), Landim de Souza MF(12), Roland F(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Laboratoire Environnements et Paléoenvironnements Océaniques et
Continentaux (EPOC), CNRS, Université Bordeaux 1, Avenue des Facultés, 33405
Talence, France [2] Laboratoire Géosciences et Environnement de Toulouse,
Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, Université Paul Sabatier, 14 avenue 
Edouard Belin, 31400 Toulouse, France.
(2)Laboratoire Géosciences et Environnement de Toulouse, Institut de Recherche
pour le Développement, Université Paul Sabatier, 14 avenue Edouard Belin, 31400
Toulouse, France.
(3)Laboratoire d'Océanologie et Géosciences, CNRS, Université du Littoral Côte
d'Opale, 32 avenue Foch, 62930 Wimereux, France.
(4)Equipe Géochimie des Eaux, Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, Université 
Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, 35 rue Hélène Brion, 75205 Paris Cedex 13,
France.
(5)Laboratório de Ecologia Aquática, Departamento de Biologia, Universidade
Federal de Juiz de Fora, Rua José Lourenço Kelmer, MG 36036-900 Juiz de Fora,
Brazil.
(6)Laboratoire Biologie des Organismes et Ecosystèmes Aquatiques (BOREA), Muséum 
National d'Histoire Naturelle, CNRS, IRD, UPMC, 61 rue Buffon, 75005, Paris,
France.
(7)NIOZ (Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research), Department of Marine
Organic Biogeochemistry, Texel, 1790 AB Den Burg, The Netherlands.
(8)Programa de Geoquímica, Universidade Federal Fluminense, Outeiro São João
Batista, RJ 24020015 Niterói, Brazil.
(9)Laboratoire Environnements et Paléoenvironnements Océaniques et Continentaux
(EPOC), CNRS, Université Bordeaux 1, Avenue des Facultés, 33405 Talence, France.
(10)Instituto de Geociências, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário
Darcy Ribeiro, DF 70.910-900 Brasília, Brazil.
(11)Institut des Sciences de la Terre d'Orléans, 1A rue de la Férollerie, 45071
Orléans Cedex 2, France.
(12)Laboratório de Oceanografia Química, Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz,
Rodovia Ilhéus-Itabuna, 45662-900 Ilhéus, Bahia, Brazil.

River systems connect the terrestrial biosphere, the atmosphere and the ocean in 
the global carbon cycle. A recent estimate suggests that up to 3 petagrams of
carbon per year could be emitted as carbon dioxide (CO2) from global inland
waters, offsetting the carbon uptake by terrestrial ecosystems. It is generally
assumed that inland waters emit carbon that has been previously fixed upstream by
land plant photosynthesis, then transferred to soils, and subsequently
transported downstream in run-off. But at the scale of entire drainage basins,
the lateral carbon fluxes carried by small rivers upstream do not account for all
of the CO2 emitted from inundated areas downstream. Three-quarters of the world's
flooded land consists of temporary wetlands, but the contribution of these
productive ecosystems to the inland water carbon budget has been largely
overlooked. Here we show that wetlands pump large amounts of atmospheric CO2 into
river waters in the floodplains of the central Amazon. Flooded forests and
floating vegetation export large amounts of carbon to river waters and the
dissolved CO2 can be transported dozens to hundreds of kilometres downstream
before being emitted. We estimate that Amazonian wetlands export half of their
gross primary production to river waters as dissolved CO2 and organic carbon,
compared with only a few per cent of gross primary production exported in upland 
(not flooded) ecosystems. Moreover, we suggest that wetland carbon export is
potentially large enough to account for at least the 0.21 petagrams of carbon
emitted per year as CO2 from the central Amazon River and its floodplains. Global
carbon budgets should explicitly address temporary or vegetated flooded areas,
because these ecosystems combine high aerial primary production with large, fast 
carbon export, potentially supporting a substantial fraction of CO2 evasion from 
inland waters.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12797 
PMID: 24336199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):412-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12807. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Muc5b is required for airway defence.

Roy MG(1), Livraghi-Butrico A(2), Fletcher AA(3), McElwee MM(4), Evans SE(4),
Boerner RM(5), Alexander SN(4), Bellinghausen LK(4), Song AS(4), Petrova YM(4),
Tuvim MJ(4), Adachi R(4), Romo I(6), Bordt AS(7), Bowden MG(8), Sisson JH(9),
Woodruff PG(10), Thornton DJ(11), Rousseau K(11), De la Garza MM(4), Moghaddam
SJ(4), Karmouty-Quintana H(5), Blackburn MR(5), Drouin SM(5), Davis CW(12),
Terrell KA(12), Grubb BR(12), O'Neal WK(12), Flores SC(13), Cota-Gomez A(13),
Lozupone CA(13), Donnelly JM(13), Watson AM(13), Hennessy CE(13), Keith RC(13),
Yang IV(13), Barthel L(14), Henson PM(14), Janssen WJ(14), Schwartz DA(13),
Boucher RC(12), Dickey BF(4), Evans CM(15).

Author information: 
(1)1] University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2].
(2)1] University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, 7011 Thurston-Bowles Building,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA [2].
(3)1] University of Colorado School of Medicine, 12700 East 19th Avenue, Aurora, 
Colorado 80045, USA [2].
(4)University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(5)University of Texas Health Science Center-Houston Medical School, 6431 Fannin 
Street, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(6)1] University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de
Monterrey, Avenida Eugenio Garza Sada 2501 Sur Colonia Tecnológico, Monterrey,
Nuevo León 64849, Mexico.
(7)Texas A&M Health Science Center, 2121 W. Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.
(8)1] Texas A&M Health Science Center, 2121 W. Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, Texas
77030, USA [2] University of Houston-Downtown, 1 Main Street, Houston, Texas
77002, USA.
(9)University of Nebraska Medical Center, 985910 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, 
Nebraska 68198, USA.
(10)University of California San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, 
California 27599, USA.
(11)University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building, Oxford Road, Manchester,
M13 9PT, UK.
(12)University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, 7011 Thurston-Bowles Building,
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.
(13)University of Colorado School of Medicine, 12700 East 19th Avenue, Aurora,
Colorado 80045, USA.
(14)1] University of Colorado School of Medicine, 12700 East 19th Avenue, Aurora,
Colorado 80045, USA [2] National Jewish Health, Denver, Colorado 80206, USA.
(15)1] University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard,
Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] University of Colorado School of Medicine, 12700
East 19th Avenue, Aurora, Colorado 80045, USA.

Respiratory surfaces are exposed to billions of particulates and pathogens daily.
A protective mucus barrier traps and eliminates them through mucociliary
clearance (MCC). However, excessive mucus contributes to transient respiratory
infections and to the pathogenesis of numerous respiratory diseases. MUC5AC and
MUC5B are evolutionarily conserved genes that encode structurally related mucin
glycoproteins, the principal macromolecules in airway mucus. Genetic variants are
linked to diverse lung diseases, but specific roles for MUC5AC and MUC5B in MCC, 
and the lasting effects of their inhibition, are unknown. Here we show that mouse
Muc5b (but not Muc5ac) is required for MCC, for controlling infections in the
airways and middle ear, and for maintaining immune homeostasis in mouse lungs,
whereas Muc5ac is dispensable. Muc5b deficiency caused materials to accumulate in
upper and lower airways. This defect led to chronic infection by multiple
bacterial species, including Staphylococcus aureus, and to inflammation that
failed to resolve normally. Apoptotic macrophages accumulated, phagocytosis was
impaired, and interleukin-23 (IL-23) production was reduced in Muc5b(-/-) mice.
By contrast, in mice that transgenically overexpress Muc5b, macrophage functions 
improved. Existing dogma defines mucous phenotypes in asthma and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as driven by increased MUC5AC, with MUC5B
levels either unaffected or increased in expectorated sputum. However, in many
patients, MUC5B production at airway surfaces decreases by as much as 90%. By
distinguishing a specific role for Muc5b in MCC, and by determining its impact on
bacterial infections and inflammation in mice, our results provide a refined
framework for designing targeted therapies to control mucin secretion and restore
MCC.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12807 
PMCID: PMC4001806
PMID: 24317696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):407-11. doi: 10.1038/nature12821. Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Perturbed neural activity disrupts cerebral angiogenesis during a postnatal
critical period.

Whiteus C(1), Freitas C(2), Grutzendler J(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA [2] Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06511, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2014 Feb;15(2):68.

During the neonatal period, activity-dependent neural-circuit remodelling
coincides with growth and refinement of the cerebral microvasculature. Whether
neural activity also influences the patterning of the vascular bed is not known. 
Here we show in neonatal mice, that neither reduction of sensory input through
whisker trimming nor moderately increased activity by environmental enrichment
affects cortical microvascular development. Unexpectedly, chronic stimulation by 
repetitive sounds, whisker deflection or motor activity led to a near arrest of
angiogenesis in barrel, auditory and motor cortices, respectively. Chemically
induced seizures also caused robust reductions in microvascular density. However,
altering neural activity in adult mice did not affect the vasculature.
Histological analysis and time-lapse in vivo two-photon microscopy revealed that 
hyperactivity did not lead to cell death or pruning of existing vessels but
rather to reduced endothelial proliferation and vessel sprouting. This
anti-angiogenic effect was prevented by administration of the nitric oxide
synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-NAME and in mice with neuronal and inducible NOS
deficiency, suggesting that excessive nitric oxide released from hyperactive
interneurons and glia inhibited vessel growth. Vascular deficits persisted long
after cessation of hyperstimulation, providing evidence for a critical period
after which proper microvascular patterning cannot be re-established. Reduced
microvascular density diminished the ability of the brain to compensate for
hypoxic challenges, leading to dendritic spine loss in regions distant from
capillaries. Therefore, excessive sensorimotor stimulation and repetitive neural 
activation during early childhood may cause lifelong deficits in microvascular
reserve, which could have important consequences for brain development, function 
and pathology.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12821 
PMCID: PMC3947100
PMID: 24305053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):403-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12788. Epub 2013 Dec 4.

A mitochondrial genome sequence of a hominin from Sima de los Huesos.

Meyer M(1), Fu Q(2), Aximu-Petri A(1), Glocke I(1), Nickel B(1), Arsuaga JL(3),
Martínez I(4), Gracia A(4), de Castro JM(5), Carbonell E(6), Pääbo S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(2)1] Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Key Laboratory of
Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute 
of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100044, China.
(3)1] Centro de Investigación Sobre la Evolución y Comportamiento Humanos,
Universidad Complutense de Madrid-Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28029 Madrid,
Spain [2] Departamento de Paleontología, Facultad de Ciencias Geológicas,
Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(4)1] Centro de Investigación Sobre la Evolución y Comportamiento Humanos,
Universidad Complutense de Madrid-Instituto de Salud Carlos III, 28029 Madrid,
Spain [2] Área de Paleontología, Depto. de Geografía y Geología, Universidad de
Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares, 28871 Madrid, Spain.
(5)Centro Nacional de Investigación sobre la Evolución Humana, Paseo Sierra de
Atapuerca, 09002 Burgos, Spain.
(6)1] Institut Català de Paleoecologia Humana i Evolució Social, C/Marcel·lí
Domingo s/n (Edifici W3), Campus Sescelades, 43007 Tarragona, Spain [2] Àrea de
Prehistòria, Dept. d'Història i Història de l'Art, Univ. Rovira i Virgili, Fac.
de Lletres, Av. Catalunya, 35, 43002 Tarragona, Spain.

Excavations of a complex of caves in the Sierra de Atapuerca in northern Spain
have unearthed hominin fossils that range in age from the early Pleistocene to
the Holocene. One of these sites, the 'Sima de los Huesos' ('pit of bones'), has 
yielded the world's largest assemblage of Middle Pleistocene hominin fossils,
consisting of at least 28 individuals dated to over 300,000 years ago. The
skeletal remains share a number of morphological features with fossils classified
as Homo heidelbergensis and also display distinct Neanderthal-derived traits.
Here we determine an almost complete mitochondrial genome sequence of a hominin
from Sima de los Huesos and show that it is closely related to the lineage
leading to mitochondrial genomes of Denisovans, an eastern Eurasian sister group 
to Neanderthals. Our results pave the way for DNA research on hominins from the
Middle Pleistocene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12788 
PMID: 24305051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):367-71. doi: 10.1038/nature12867. Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Biochemical reconstitution of topological DNA binding by the cohesin ring.

Murayama Y(1), Uhlmann F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chromosome Segregation Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.

Cohesion between sister chromatids, mediated by the chromosomal cohesin complex, 
is a prerequisite for faithful chromosome segregation in mitosis. Cohesin also
has vital roles in DNA repair and transcriptional regulation. The ring-shaped
cohesin complex is thought to encircle sister DNA strands, but its molecular
mechanism of action is poorly understood and the biochemical reconstitution of
cohesin activity in vitro has remained an unattained goal. Here we reconstitute
cohesin loading onto DNA using purified fission yeast cohesin and its loader
complex, Mis4(Scc2)-Ssl3(Scc4) (Schizosaccharomyces pombe gene names appear
throughout with their more commonly known Saccharomyces cerevisiae counterparts
added in superscript). Incubation of cohesin with DNA leads to spontaneous
topological loading, but this remains inefficient. The loader contacts cohesin at
multiple sites around the ring circumference, including the hitherto enigmatic
Psc3(Scc3) subunit, and stimulates cohesin's ATPase, resulting in efficient
topological loading. The in vitro reconstitution of cohesin loading onto DNA
provides mechanistic insight into the initial steps of the establishment of
sister chromatid cohesion and other chromosomal processes mediated by cohesin.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12867 
PMCID: PMC3907785
PMID: 24291789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):422-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12679. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

Chasing acyl carrier protein through a catalytic cycle of lipid A production.

Masoudi A(1), Raetz CR(2), Zhou P(1), Pemble CW 4th(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.
(2)1] Department of Biochemistry, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA [2].
(3)1] Human Vaccine Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA [2] Duke Macromolecular Crystallography Center, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Acyl carrier protein represents one of the most highly conserved proteins across 
all domains of life and is nature's way of transporting hydrocarbon chains in
vivo. Notably, type II acyl carrier proteins serve as a crucial interaction hub
in primary cellular metabolism by communicating transiently between partner
enzymes of the numerous biosynthetic pathways. However, the highly transient
nature of such interactions and the inherent conformational mobility of acyl
carrier protein have stymied previous attempts to visualize structurally acyl
carrier protein tied to an overall catalytic cycle. This is essential to
understanding a fundamental aspect of cellular metabolism leading to compounds
that are not only useful to the cell, but also of therapeutic value. For example,
acyl carrier protein is central to the biosynthesis of the lipid A (endotoxin)
component of lipopolysaccharides in Gram-negative microorganisms, which is
required for their growth and survival, and is an activator of the mammalian
host's immune system, thus emerging as an important therapeutic target. During
lipid A synthesis (Raetz pathway), acyl carrier protein shuttles acyl
intermediates linked to its prosthetic 4'-phosphopantetheine group among four
acyltransferases, including LpxD. Here we report the crystal structures of three 
forms of Escherichia coli acyl carrier protein engaging LpxD, which represent
stalled substrate and liberated products along the reaction coordinate. The
structures show the intricate interactions at the interface that optimally
position acyl carrier protein for acyl delivery and that directly involve the
pantetheinyl group. Conformational differences among the stalled acyl carrier
proteins provide the molecular basis for the association-dissociation process. An
unanticipated conformational shift of 4'-phosphopantetheine groups within the
LpxD catalytic chamber shows an unprecedented role of acyl carrier protein in
product release.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12679 
PMCID: PMC3947097
PMID: 24196711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):229-33. doi: 10.1038/nature12884.

Structural basis for hijacking CBF-β and CUL5 E3 ligase complex by HIV-1 Vif.

Guo Y(1), Dong L(1), Qiu X(1), Wang Y(2), Zhang B(2), Liu H(2), Yu Y(3), Zang
Y(2), Yang M(3), Huang Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology,
Harbin 150080, China [2].
(2)School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 
150080, China.
(3)MOE Key Laboratory of Protein Sciences, Tsinghua-Peking Center for Life
Sciences, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):167-8.

The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 protein Vif has a central role in the
neutralization of host innate defences by hijacking cellular proteasomal
degradation pathways to subvert the antiviral activity of host restriction
factors; however, the underlying mechanism by which Vif achieves this remains
unclear. Here we report a crystal structure of the Vif-CBF-β-CUL5-ELOB-ELOC
complex. The structure reveals that Vif, by means of two domains, organizes
formation of the pentameric complex by interacting with CBF-β, CUL5 and ELOC. The
larger domain (α/β domain) of Vif binds to the same side of CBF-β as RUNX1,
indicating that Vif and RUNX1 are exclusive for CBF-β binding. Interactions of
the smaller domain (α-domain) of Vif with ELOC and CUL5 are cooperative and mimic
those of SOCS2 with the latter two proteins. A unique zinc-finger motif of Vif,
which is located between the two Vif domains, makes no contacts with the other
proteins but stabilizes the conformation of the α-domain, which may be important 
for Vif-CUL5 interaction. Together, our data reveal the structural basis for Vif 
hijacking of the CBF-β and CUL5 E3 ligase complex, laying a foundation for
rational design of novel anti-HIV drugs.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12884 
PMID: 24402281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):195-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12909.

A metal-free organic-inorganic aqueous flow battery.

Huskinson B(1), Marshak MP(2), Suh C(3), Er S(4), Gerhardt MR(5), Galvin CJ(3),
Chen X(3), Aspuru-Guzik A(3), Gordon RG(6), Aziz MJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 29 Oxford Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2].
(2)1] Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 29 Oxford Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical
Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA [3].
(3)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(4)1] Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford
Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Molecular Materials and
Nanosystems, Eindhoven University of Technology, PO Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven,
The Netherlands.
(5)Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 29 Oxford Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.
(6)1] Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 29 Oxford Street,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA [2] Department of Chemistry and Chemical
Biology, Harvard University, 12 Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):163-5.

As the fraction of electricity generation from intermittent renewable
sources--such as solar or wind--grows, the ability to store large amounts of
electrical energy is of increasing importance. Solid-electrode batteries maintain
discharge at peak power for far too short a time to fully regulate wind or solar 
power output. In contrast, flow batteries can independently scale the power
(electrode area) and energy (arbitrarily large storage volume) components of the 
system by maintaining all of the electro-active species in fluid form. Wide-scale
utilization of flow batteries is, however, limited by the abundance and cost of
these materials, particularly those using redox-active metals and precious-metal 
electrocatalysts. Here we describe a class of energy storage materials that
exploits the favourable chemical and electrochemical properties of a family of
molecules known as quinones. The example we demonstrate is a metal-free flow
battery based on the redox chemistry of 9,10-anthraquinone-2,7-disulphonic acid
(AQDS). AQDS undergoes extremely rapid and reversible two-electron two-proton
reduction on a glassy carbon electrode in sulphuric acid. An aqueous flow battery
with inexpensive carbon electrodes, combining the quinone/hydroquinone couple
with the Br2/Br(-) redox couple, yields a peak galvanic power density exceeding
0.6 W cm(-2) at 1.3 A cm(-2). Cycling of this quinone-bromide flow battery showed
>99 per cent storage capacity retention per cycle. The organic anthraquinone
species can be synthesized from inexpensive commodity chemicals. This organic
approach permits tuning of important properties such as the reduction potential
and solubility by adding functional groups: for example, we demonstrate that the 
addition of two hydroxy groups to AQDS increases the open circuit potential of
the cell by 11% and we describe a pathway for further increases in cell voltage. 
The use of π-aromatic redox-active organic molecules instead of redox-active
metals represents a new and promising direction for realizing massive electrical 
energy storage at greatly reduced cost.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12909 
PMID: 24402280 


923. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):174-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12826.

Elephant shark genome provides unique insights into gnathostome evolution.

Venkatesh B(1), Lee AP(2), Ravi V(2), Maurya AK(3), Lian MM(2), Swann JB(4), Ohta
Y(5), Flajnik MF(5), Sutoh Y(6), Kasahara M(6), Hoon S(7), Gangu V(7), Roy SW(8),
Irimia M(9), Korzh V(10), Kondrychyn I(10), Lim ZW(2), Tay BH(2), Tohari S(2),
Kong KW(7), Ho S(7), Lorente-Galdos B(11), Quilez J(11), Marques-Bonet T(11),
Raney BJ(12), Ingham PW(3), Tay A(2), Hillier LW(13), Minx P(13), Boehm T(4),
Wilson RK(13), Brenner S(2), Warren WC(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Comparative Genomics Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology,
A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673 [2] Department of Paediatrics, Yong Loo Lin
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore 119228.
(2)Comparative Genomics Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology,
A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(3)Developmental and Biomedical Genetics Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and
Cell Biology, A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(4)Department of Developmental Immunology, Max-Planck-Institute of Immunobiology 
and Epigenetics, Stuebeweg 51, 79108 Freiburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Maryland, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21201, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.
(7)Molecular Engineering Laboratory, Biomedical Sciences Institutes, A*STAR,
Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(8)Department of Biology, San Francisco State University, San Francisco,
California 94132, USA.
(9)Banting and Best Department of Medical Research and Donnelly Centre,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3E1, Canada.
(10)Fish Developmental Biology Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and Cell
Biology, A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(11)1] Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC), PRBB, 08003 Barcelona, Spain
[2] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), 08010 Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain.
(12)Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, School of Engineering,
University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(13)The Genome Institute at Washington University, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):574.

Comment in
    Evol Dev. 2014 May;16(3):123-4.
    Evol Dev. 2014 May;16(3):125-6.
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):E7-9.
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):E9-10.

The emergence of jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) from jawless vertebrates was
accompanied by major morphological and physiological innovations, such as hinged 
jaws, paired fins and immunoglobulin-based adaptive immunity. Gnathostomes
subsequently diverged into two groups, the cartilaginous fishes and the bony
vertebrates. Here we report the whole-genome analysis of a cartilaginous fish,
the elephant shark (Callorhinchus milii). We find that the C. milii genome is the
slowest evolving of all known vertebrates, including the 'living fossil'
coelacanth, and features extensive synteny conservation with tetrapod genomes,
making it a good model for comparative analyses of gnathostome genomes. Our
functional studies suggest that the lack of genes encoding secreted
calcium-binding phosphoproteins in cartilaginous fishes explains the absence of
bone in their endoskeleton. Furthermore, the adaptive immune system of
cartilaginous fishes is unusual: it lacks the canonical CD4 co-receptor and most 
transcription factors, cytokines and cytokine receptors related to the CD4
lineage, despite the presence of polymorphic major histocompatibility complex
class II molecules. It thus presents a new model for understanding the origin of 
adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12826 
PMCID: PMC3964593
PMID: 24402279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):180-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12879. Epub 2013 Dec 25.

Patterning and growth control by membrane-tethered Wingless.

Alexandre C(1), Baena-Lopez A(1), Vincent JP(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill,
London NW7 1AA, UK [2].
(2)MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London
NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):162-3.
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Feb;15(2):75.

Wnts are evolutionarily conserved secreted signalling proteins that, in various
developmental contexts, spread from their site of synthesis to form a gradient
and activate target-gene expression at a distance. However, the requirement for
Wnts to spread has never been directly tested. Here we used genome engineering to
replace the endogenous wingless gene, which encodes the main Drosophila Wnt, with
one that expresses a membrane-tethered form of the protein. Surprisingly, the
resulting flies were viable and produced normally patterned appendages of nearly 
the right size, albeit with a delay. We show that, in the prospective wing,
prolonged wingless transcription followed by memory of earlier signalling allows 
persistent expression of relevant target genes. We suggest therefore that the
spread of Wingless is dispensable for patterning and growth even though it
probably contributes to increasing cell proliferation.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12879 
PMID: 24390349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):190-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12763. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Face-to-face transfer of wafer-scale graphene films.

Gao L(1), Ni GX(2), Liu Y(3), Liu B(1), Castro Neto AH(2), Loh KP(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Graphene Research Centre, National University of Singapore, 6 Science Drive
2, 117546 Singapore [2] Department of Chemistry, National University of
Singapore, 3 Science Drive 3, 117543 Singapore.
(2)1] Graphene Research Centre, National University of Singapore, 6 Science Drive
2, 117546 Singapore [2] Department of Physics, National University of Singapore, 
2 Science Drive 3, 117542 Singapore.
(3)Department of Chemistry, National University of Singapore, 3 Science Drive 3, 
117543 Singapore.

Graphene has attracted worldwide interest since its experimental discovery, but
the preparation of large-area, continuous graphene film on SiO2/Si wafers, free
from growth-related morphological defects or transfer-induced cracks and folds,
remains a formidable challenge. Growth of graphene by chemical vapour deposition 
on Cu foils has emerged as a powerful technique owing to its compatibility with
industrial-scale roll-to-roll technology. However, the polycrystalline nature and
microscopic roughness of Cu foils means that such roll-to-roll transferred films 
are not devoid of cracks and folds. High-fidelity transfer or direct growth of
high-quality graphene films on arbitrary substrates is needed to enable
wide-ranging applications in photonics or electronics, which include devices such
as optoelectronic modulators, transistors, on-chip biosensors and tunnelling
barriers. The direct growth of graphene film on an insulating substrate, such as 
a SiO2/Si wafer, would be useful for this purpose, but current research efforts
remain grounded at the proof-of-concept stage, where only discontinuous,
nanometre-sized islands can be obtained. Here we develop a face-to-face transfer 
method for wafer-scale graphene films that is so far the only known way to
accomplish both the growth and transfer steps on one wafer. This spontaneous
transfer method relies on nascent gas bubbles and capillary bridges between the
graphene film and the underlying substrate during etching of the metal catalyst, 
which is analogous to the method used by tree frogs to remain attached to
submerged leaves. In contrast to the previous wet or dry transfer results, the
face-to-face transfer does not have to be done by hand and is compatible with any
size and shape of substrate; this approach also enjoys the benefit of a much
reduced density of transfer defects compared with the conventional transfer
method. Most importantly, the direct growth and spontaneous attachment of
graphene on the underlying substrate is amenable to batch processing in a
semiconductor production line, and thus will speed up the technological
application of graphene.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12763 
PMID: 24336218 


926. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):218-22. doi: 10.1038/nature12799. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Mycobacteria manipulate macrophage recruitment through coordinated use of
membrane lipids.

Cambier CJ(1), Takaki KK(2), Larson RP(3), Hernandez RE(4), Tobin DM(2), Urdahl
KB(5), Cosma CL(2), Ramakrishnan L(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(3)1] Department of Immunology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, Washington 98109, 
USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195,
USA.
(5)1] Department of Immunology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Seattle Biomedical Research Institute, Seattle, Washington 98109, 
USA [3] Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(6)1] Department of Immunology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [3] Department of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2014 Jan 15;15(1):1-2.
    Trends Microbiol. 2014 Mar;22(3):110-2.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Feb;14(2):62-3.

The evolutionary survival of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the cause of human
tuberculosis, depends on its ability to invade the host, replicate, and transmit 
infection. At its initial peripheral infection site in the distal lung airways,
M. tuberculosis infects macrophages, which transport it to deeper tissues. How
mycobacteria survive in these broadly microbicidal cells is an important
question. Here we show in mice and zebrafish that M. tuberculosis, and its close 
pathogenic relative Mycobacterium marinum, preferentially recruit and infect
permissive macrophages while evading microbicidal ones. This immune evasion is
accomplished by using cell-surface-associated phthiocerol dimycoceroserate (PDIM)
lipids to mask underlying pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). In the 
absence of PDIM, these PAMPs signal a Toll-like receptor (TLR)-dependent
recruitment of macrophages that produce microbicidal reactive nitrogen species.
Concordantly, the related phenolic glycolipids (PGLs) promote the recruitment of 
permissive macrophages through a host chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2)-mediated
pathway. Thus, we have identified coordinated roles for PDIM, known to be
essential for mycobacterial virulence, and PGL, which (along with CCR2) is known 
to be associated with human tuberculosis. Our findings also suggest an
explanation for the longstanding observation that M. tuberculosis initiates
infection in the relatively sterile environment of the lower respiratory tract,
rather than in the upper respiratory tract, where resident microflora and inhaled
environmental microbes may continually recruit microbicidal macrophages through
TLR-dependent signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12799 
PMCID: PMC3961847
PMID: 24336213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):234-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12815. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Structural basis of lentiviral subversion of a cellular protein degradation
pathway.

Schwefel D(1), Groom HC(2), Boucherit VC(2), Christodoulou E(1), Walker PA(1),
Stoye JP(2), Bishop KN(2), Taylor IA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Structure, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, 
The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.
(2)Division of Virology, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The
Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):167-8.

Lentiviruses contain accessory genes that have evolved to counteract the effects 
of host cellular defence proteins that inhibit productive infection. One such
restriction factor, SAMHD1, inhibits human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1
infection of myeloid-lineage cells as well as resting CD4(+) T cells by reducing 
the cellular deoxynucleoside 5'-triphosphate (dNTP) concentration to a level at
which the viral reverse transcriptase cannot function. In other lentiviruses,
including HIV-2 and related simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs), SAMHD1
restriction is overcome by the action of viral accessory protein x (Vpx) or the
related viral protein r (Vpr) that target and recruit SAMHD1 for proteasomal
degradation. The molecular mechanism by which these viral proteins are able to
usurp the host cell's ubiquitination machinery to destroy the cell's protection
against these viruses has not been defined. Here we present the crystal structure
of a ternary complex of Vpx with the human E3 ligase substrate adaptor DCAF1 and 
the carboxy-terminal region of human SAMHD1. Vpx is made up of a three-helical
bundle stabilized by a zinc finger motif, and wraps tightly around the
disc-shaped DCAF1 molecule to present a new molecular surface. This adapted
surface is then able to recruit SAMHD1 via its C terminus, making it a competent 
substrate for the E3 ligase to mark for proteasomal degradation. The structure
reported here provides a molecular description of how a lentiviral accessory
protein is able to subvert the cell's normal protein degradation pathway to
inactivate the cellular viral defence system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12815 
PMCID: PMC3886899
PMID: 24336198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):169-73. doi: 10.1038/nature12789. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Diversity of ageing across the tree of life.

Jones OR(1), Scheuerlein A(2), Salguero-Gómez R(3), Camarda CG(4), Schaible R(5),
Casper BB(6), Dahlgren JP(7), Ehrlén J(8), García MB(9), Menges ES(10),
Quintana-Ascencio PF(11), Caswell H(12), Baudisch A(5), Vaupel JW(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Max-Planck Odense Center on the Biodemography of Aging, Campusvej 55, 5230 
Odense M, Denmark [2] Department of Biology, University of Southern Denmark,
Campusvej 55, 5230 Odense M, Denmark [3].
(2)1] Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Strasse 1, 18057
Rostock, Germany [2].
(3)1] Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Strasse 1, 18057
Rostock, Germany [2] School of Biological Sciences, Centre for Biodiversity and
Conservation Science, University of Queensland, Brisbane QLD 4072, Australia.
(4)Institut National d'Etudes Démographiques, 133 Boulevard Davout, 75980 Paris
Cédex 20, France.
(5)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Konrad-Zuse-Strasse 1, 18057
Rostock, Germany.
(6)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, 433 South University
Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6018, USA.
(7)1] Max-Planck Odense Center on the Biodemography of Aging, Campusvej 55, 5230 
Odense M, Denmark [2] Department of Biology, University of Southern Denmark,
Campusvej 55, 5230 Odense M, Denmark.
(8)Department of Ecology, Environment and Plant Sciences, Stockholm University,
Lilla Frescativägen 5, 10691 Stockholm, Sweden.
(9)Pyrenean Institute of Ecology (CSIC), Avenida Montañana 1005, 50059 Zaragoza, 
Spain.
(10)Archbold Biological Station, 123 Main Drive, Venus, Florida 33960, USA.
(11)Department of Biology, University of Central Florida, 4110 Libra Drive,
Orlando, Florida 32816-2368, USA.
(12)1] Department of Biology, University of Southern Denmark, Campusvej 55, 5230 
Odense M, Denmark [2] Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research,
Konrad-Zuse-Strasse 1, 18057 Rostock, Germany [3] Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, Biology Department MS-34, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543 USA [4]
Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of Amsterdam, PO
Box 94248, 1090GE Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(13)1] Max-Planck Odense Center on the Biodemography of Aging, Campusvej 55, 5230
Odense M, Denmark [2] Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research,
Konrad-Zuse-Strasse 1, 18057 Rostock, Germany [3] Duke Population Research
Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27705, USA.

Evolution drives, and is driven by, demography. A genotype moulds its phenotype's
age patterns of mortality and fertility in an environment; these two patterns in 
turn determine the genotype's fitness in that environment. Hence, to understand
the evolution of ageing, age patterns of mortality and reproduction need to be
compared for species across the tree of life. However, few studies have done so
and only for a limited range of taxa. Here we contrast standardized patterns over
age for 11 mammals, 12 other vertebrates, 10 invertebrates, 12 vascular plants
and a green alga. Although it has been predicted that evolution should inevitably
lead to increasing mortality and declining fertility with age after maturity,
there is great variation among these species, including increasing, constant,
decreasing, humped and bowed trajectories for both long- and short-lived species.
This diversity challenges theoreticians to develop broader perspectives on the
evolution of ageing and empiricists to study the demography of more species.


PMCID: PMC4157354
PMID: 24317695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):186-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12765. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

The rarity of dust in metal-poor galaxies.

Fisher DB(1), Bolatto AD(2), Herrera-Camus R(2), Draine BT(3), Donaldson J(2),
Walter F(4), Sandstrom KM(4), Leroy AK(5), Cannon J(6), Gordon K(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Astronomy, Laboratory for Millimeter-wave Astronomy and Joint
Space Institute, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA [2]
Centre for Astrophysics and Supercomputing, Swinburne University, PO Box 218,
Hawthorn, Victoria 3122, Australia.
(2)Department of Astronomy, Laboratory for Millimeter-wave Astronomy and Joint
Space Institute, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA.
(3)Department of Astrophysical Sciences, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA.
(4)Max-Planck-Institut für Astronomie, Königstuhl 17, Heidelberg 69117, Germany.
(5)National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903, USA.
(6)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Macalester College, 1600 Grand Avenue,
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA.
(7)Space Telescope Science Institute, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA.

Galaxies observed at redshift z > 6, when the Universe was less than a billion
years old, thus far very rarely show evidence of the cold dust that accompanies
star formation in the local Universe, where the dust-to-gas mass ratio is around 
one per cent. A prototypical example is the galaxy Himiko (z = 6.6), which--a
mere 840 million years after the Big Bang--is forming stars at a rate of 30-100
solar masses per year, yielding a mass assembly time of about 150 × 10(6) years. 
Himiko is thought to have a low fraction (2-3 per cent of the Sun's) of elements 
heavier than helium (low metallicity), and although its gas mass cannot yet be
determined its dust-to-stellar mass ratio is constrained to be less than 0.05 per
cent. The local dwarf galaxy I Zwicky 18, which has a metallicity about 4 per
cent that of the Sun's and is forming stars less rapidly (assembly time about
1.6 × 10(9) years) than Himiko but still vigorously for its mass, is also very
dust deficient and is perhaps one of the best analogues of primitive galaxies
accessible to detailed study. Here we report observations of dust emission from
I Zw 18, from which we determine its dust mass to be 450-1,800 solar masses,
yielding a dust-to-stellar mass ratio of about 10(-6) to 10(-5) and a dust-to-gas
mass ratio of 3.2-13 × 10(-6). If I Zw 18 is a reasonable analogue of Himiko,
then Himiko's dust mass must be around 50,000 solar masses, a factor of 100 below
the current upper limit. These numbers are quite uncertain, but if most high-z
galaxies are more like Himiko than like the very-high-dust-mass galaxy SDSS
J114816.64 + 525150.3 at z ≈ 6, which hosts a quasar, then our prospects for
detecting the gas and dust inside such galaxies are much poorer than hitherto
anticipated.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12765 
PMID: 24317694 


930. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):223-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12808. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Transcranial amelioration of inflammation and cell death after brain injury.

Roth TL(1), Nayak D(1), Atanasijevic T(1), Koretsky AP(1), Latour LL(1), McGavern
DB(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes
of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

Comment in
    CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2014 Apr;13(3):375-6.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is increasingly appreciated to be highly prevalent
and deleterious to neurological function. At present, no effective treatment
options are available, and little is known about the complex cellular response to
TBI during its acute phase. To gain insights into TBI pathogenesis, we developed 
a novel murine closed-skull brain injury model that mirrors some pathological
features associated with mild TBI in humans and used long-term intravital
microscopy to study the dynamics of the injury response from its inception. Here 
we demonstrate that acute brain injury induces vascular damage, meningeal cell
death, and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that ultimately breach
the glial limitans and promote spread of the injury into the parenchyma. In
response, the brain elicits a neuroprotective, purinergic-receptor-dependent
inflammatory response characterized by meningeal neutrophil swarming and
microglial reconstitution of the damaged glial limitans. We also show that the
skull bone is permeable to small-molecular-weight compounds, and use this
delivery route to modulate inflammation and therapeutically ameliorate brain
injury through transcranial administration of the ROS scavenger, glutathione. Our
results shed light on the acute cellular response to TBI and provide a means to
locally deliver therapeutic compounds to the site of injury.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12808 
PMCID: PMC3930079
PMID: 24317693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):199-203. doi: 10.1038/nature12761. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Merging allylic carbon-hydrogen and selective carbon-carbon bond activation.

Masarwa A(1), Didier D(1), Zabrodski T(1), Schinkel M(2), Ackermann L(2), Marek
I(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Mallat Family Laboratory of Organic Chemistry, Schulich Faculty of
Chemistry and the Lise Meitner-Minerva Center for Computational Quantum
Chemistry, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000, Israel.
(2)Institut Für Organische und Biomolekulare Chemie, Georg-August-Universität,
Göttingen, Tammannstrasse 2, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Since the nineteenth century, many synthetic organic chemists have focused on
developing new strategies to regio-, diastereo- and enantioselectively build
carbon-carbon and carbon-heteroatom bonds in a predictable and efficient manner. 
Ideal syntheses should use the least number of synthetic steps, with few or no
functional group transformations and by-products, and maximum atom efficiency.
One potentially attractive method for the synthesis of molecular skeletons that
are difficult to prepare would be through the selective activation of C-H and C-C
bonds, instead of the conventional construction of new C-C bonds. Here we present
an approach that exploits the multifold reactivity of easily accessible
substrates with a single organometallic species to furnish complex molecular
scaffolds through the merging of otherwise difficult transformations: allylic C-H
and selective C-C bond activations. The resulting bifunctional nucleophilic
species, all of which have an all-carbon quaternary stereogenic centre, can then 
be selectively derivatized by the addition of two different electrophiles to
obtain more complex molecular architecture from these easily available starting
materials.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12761 
PMID: 24317692 


932. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):212-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12785. Epub 2013 Dec 4.

HMGA2 functions as a competing endogenous RNA to promote lung cancer progression.

Kumar MS(1), Armenteros-Monterroso E(1), East P(2), Chakravorty P(2), Matthews
N(3), Winslow MM(4), Downward J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Signal Transduction Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 
44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(2)Bioinformatics and Biostatistics Group, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(3)Advanced Sequencing Facility, Cancer Research UK London Research Institute, 44
Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK.
(4)Department of Genetics, Department of Pathology, the Stanford Cancer
Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.
(5)1] Signal Transduction Laboratory, Cancer Research UK London Research
Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, UK [2] Lung Cancer Group,
Division of Cancer Biology, The Institute of Cancer Research, 237 Fulham Road,
London SW3 6JB, UK.

Retraction in
    Nature. 2015 Jul 16;523(7560):370.

Comment in
    Cell Res. 2014 Mar;24(3):259-60.
    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Feb;14(2):73.

Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most prevalent histological cancer
subtype worldwide. As the majority of patients present with invasive, metastatic 
disease, it is vital to understand the basis for lung cancer progression. Hmga2
is highly expressed in metastatic lung adenocarcinoma, in which it contributes to
cancer progression and metastasis. Here we show that Hmga2 promotes lung cancer
progression in mouse and human cells by operating as a competing endogenous RNA
(ceRNA) for the let-7 microRNA (miRNA) family. Hmga2 can promote the
transformation of lung cancer cells independent of protein-coding function but
dependent upon the presence of let-7 sites; this occurs without changes in the
levels of let-7 isoforms, suggesting that Hmga2 affects let-7 activity by
altering miRNA targeting. These effects are also observed in vivo, where Hmga2
ceRNA activity drives lung cancer growth, invasion and dissemination. Integrated 
analysis of miRNA target prediction algorithms and metastatic lung cancer gene
expression data reveals the TGF-β co-receptor Tgfbr3 (ref. 12) as a putative
target of Hmga2 ceRNA function. Tgfbr3 expression is regulated by the Hmga2 ceRNA
through differential recruitment to Argonaute 2 (Ago2), and TGF-β signalling
driven by Tgfbr3 is important for Hmga2 to promote lung cancer progression.
Finally, analysis of NSCLC-patient gene-expression data reveals that HMGA2 and
TGFBR3 are coordinately regulated in NSCLC-patient material, a vital corollary to
ceRNA function. Taken together, these results suggest that Hmga2 promotes lung
carcinogenesis both as a protein-coding gene and as a non-coding RNA; such
dual-function regulation of gene-expression networks reflects a novel means by
which oncogenes promote disease progression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12785 
PMCID: PMC3886898
PMID: 24305048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):204-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12778. Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Primitive layered gabbros from fast-spreading lower oceanic crust.

Gillis KM(1), Snow JE(2), Klaus A(3), Abe N(4), Adrião AB(5), Akizawa N(6),
Ceuleneer G(7), Cheadle MJ(8), Faak K(9), Falloon TJ(10), Friedman SA(11), Godard
M(12), Guerin G(13), Harigane Y(14), Horst AJ(15), Hoshide T(16), Ildefonse
B(12), Jean MM(17), John BE(8), Koepke J(18), Machi S(6), Maeda J(19), Marks
NE(20), McCaig AM(21), Meyer R(22), Morris A(23), Nozaka T(24), Python M(19),
Saha A(25), Wintsch RP(26).

Author information: 
(1)School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of Victoria, PO Box 1700
Station CSC, Victoria, British Columbia V8W 2Y2, Canada.
(2)Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Houston, 312 Science and
Research Building 1, Houston, Texas 77204-5007, USA.
(3)United States Implementing Organization, Integrated Ocean Drilling Program,
Texas A&M University, 1000 Discovery Drive, College Station, Texas 77845, USA.
(4)Institute for Research on Earth Evolution, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth
Science and Technology, 2-15 Natsushima-cho, Yokosuka 237-0061, Japan.
(5)Institute of Geoscience, Rio Grande do Sul Federal University, Avenida Bento
Gonçalves, 9500 Bloco I Prédio, 43113 Sala 207, Porto Alegre/RS 91501-970,
Brazil.
(6)Department of Earth Sciences, Kanazawa University, Kakuma-machi, Kanazawa
Ishikawa 920-1192, Japan.
(7)Observatoire Midi-Pyrénées (UMS 831), CNRS, Université Paul Sabatier, 14
Avenue Edouard Belin, Toulouse Cedex 31400, France.
(8)Department of Geology and Geophysics, University of Wyoming, 1000 University
Avenue, Department 3006, Laramie, Wyoming 82071, USA.
(9)1] School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of Victoria, PO Box 1700
Station CSC, Victoria, British Columbia V8W 2Y2, Canada [2] Institut für
Geologie, Mineralogie, and Geophysik, Ruhr-Universität Bochum,
Universitätsstrasse 150, 44780 Bochum, Germany.
(10)Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies and School of Earth Sciences,
University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia.
(11)Department of Geology, Southern Illinois University at Carbondale,
Carbondale, Illinois 62901, USA.
(12)Géosciences Montpellier, Université Montpellier 2, CNRS UMR5243, CC 60, 34095
Montpellier Cedex 5, France.
(13)Borehole Research Group, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia
University, PO Box 1000, 61 Route 9W, Palisades, New York 10964, USA.
(14)Institute of Geology and Geoinformation, Geological Survey of Japan, National
Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, AIST Tsukuba Central 7, 
1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba Ibaraki 305-8567, Japan.
(15)Department of Geology, Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio 44074, USA.
(16)Graduate School of Science, Tohoku University, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8578,
Japan.
(17)Department of Geology and Environmental, Geosciences, Northern Illinois
University, Davis Hall 312, Normal Road, DeKalb, Illinois 60115, USA.
(18)Institut für Mineralogie, University of Hannover, Callinstrasse 3, Hannover
30167, Germany.
(19)Department of Natural History Sciences, Hokkaido University, North 10, West
8, Kita-ku, Sapporo, Hokkaido 060-0810, Japan.
(20)Chemistry and Material Sciences Department, Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory, PO Box 808, L-231, Livermore, California 94551, USA.
(21)School of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(22)Centre for Geobiology and Department of Earth Science, University of Bergen, 
Allegaten 41, Bergen 5007, Norway.
(23)School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Plymouth University,
Drake Circus, Plymouth PL4 8AA, UK.
(24)Department of Earth Sciences, Okayama University, 3-1-1 Tsushima-naka,
Okayama 700-8530, Japan.
(25)Department of Geology, University of Calcutta, 35 Ballygunge Circular Road,
Kolkata 700 019, India.
(26)Department of Geological Sciences, Indiana University, 1001 East 10th Street,
Bloomington, Indiana 47405, USA.

Three-quarters of the oceanic crust formed at fast-spreading ridges is composed
of plutonic rocks whose mineral assemblages, textures and compositions record the
history of melt transport and crystallization between the mantle and the sea
floor. Despite the importance of these rocks, sampling them in situ is extremely 
challenging owing to the overlying dykes and lavas. This means that models for
understanding the formation of the lower crust are based largely on geophysical
studies and ancient analogues (ophiolites) that did not form at typical mid-ocean
ridges. Here we describe cored intervals of primitive, modally layered gabbroic
rocks from the lower plutonic crust formed at a fast-spreading ridge, sampled by 
the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program at the Hess Deep rift. Centimetre-scale,
modally layered rocks, some of which have a strong layering-parallel foliation,
confirm a long-held belief that such rocks are a key constituent of the lower
oceanic crust formed at fast-spreading ridges. Geochemical analysis of these
primitive lower plutonic rocks--in combination with previous geochemical data for
shallow-level plutonic rocks, sheeted dykes and lavas--provides the most
completely constrained estimate of the bulk composition of fast-spreading oceanic
crust so far. Simple crystallization models using this bulk crustal composition
as the parental melt accurately predict the bulk composition of both the lavas
and the plutonic rocks. However, the recovered plutonic rocks show early
crystallization of orthopyroxene, which is not predicted by current models of
melt extraction from the mantle and mid-ocean-ridge basalt differentiation. The
simplest explanation of this observation is that compositionally diverse melts
are extracted from the mantle and partly crystallize before mixing to produce the
more homogeneous magmas that erupt.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12778 
PMID: 24291793 


934. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):239-43. doi: 10.1038/nature12771. Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Efficient ethanol production from brown macroalgae sugars by a synthetic yeast
platform.

Enquist-Newman M(1), Faust AM(1), Bravo DD(1), Santos CN(2), Raisner RM(3), Hanel
A(3), Sarvabhowman P(3), Le C(3), Regitsky DD(2), Cooper SR(3), Peereboom L(4),
Clark A(3), Martinez Y(3), Goldsmith J(3), Cho MY(3), Donohoue PD(3), Luo L(3),
Lamberson B(3), Tamrakar P(3), Kim EJ(3), Villari JL(3), Gill A(2), Tripathi
SA(2), Karamchedu P(3), Paredes CJ(3), Rajgarhia V(2), Kotlar HK(5), Bailey
RB(3), Miller DJ(4), Ohler NL(3), Swimmer C(3), Yoshikuni Y(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Bio Architecture Lab Inc., 604 Bancroft Way, Suite A, Berkeley, California 
94710, USA [2].
(2)1] Bio Architecture Lab Inc., 604 Bancroft Way, Suite A, Berkeley, California 
94710, USA [2] Manus Biosynthesis Inc., 790 Memorial Drive, Suite 102, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139 (C.N.S.S.); Calysta Energy, 1140 O'Brien Drive, Menlo Park,
California 94025 (D.D.R.); Sutro Biopharma lnc., 310 Utah Avenue, Suite 150,
South San Francisco, California 94080, USA (A.G.); Total New Energies USA, 5858
Horton Street, Emeryville, California 94560 (S.A.T.; V.R.).
(3)Bio Architecture Lab Inc., 604 Bancroft Way, Suite A, Berkeley, California
94710, USA.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Michigan State
University, 2527 Engineering Building, East Lansing, Michigan 48824-1226, USA.
(5)Statoil ASA, Statoil Research Centre, Arkitekt Ebbells vei 10, Rotvoll, 7005
Trondheim, Norway.
(6)1] Bio Architecture Lab Inc., 604 Bancroft Way, Suite A, Berkeley, California 
94710, USA [2] BALChile S.A., Badajoz 100, Oficina 1404, Las Condes, Santiago
7550000, Chile [3] BAL Biofuels S.A., Badajoz 100, Oficina 1404, Las Condes,
Santiago 7550000, Chile.

The increasing demands placed on natural resources for fuel and food production
require that we explore the use of efficient, sustainable feedstocks such as
brown macroalgae. The full potential of brown macroalgae as feedstocks for
commercial-scale fuel ethanol production, however, requires extensive
re-engineering of the alginate and mannitol catabolic pathways in the standard
industrial microbe Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Here we present the discovery of an 
alginate monomer (4-deoxy-L-erythro-5-hexoseulose uronate, or DEHU) transporter
from the alginolytic eukaryote Asteromyces cruciatus. The genomic integration and
overexpression of the gene encoding this transporter, together with the necessary
bacterial alginate and deregulated native mannitol catabolism genes, conferred
the ability of an S. cerevisiae strain to efficiently metabolize DEHU and
mannitol. When this platform was further adapted to grow on mannitol and DEHU
under anaerobic conditions, it was capable of ethanol fermentation from mannitol 
and DEHU, achieving titres of 4.6% (v/v) (36.2 g l(-1)) and yields up to 83% of
the maximum theoretical yield from consumed sugars. These results show that all
major sugars in brown macroalgae can be used as feedstocks for biofuels and
value-added renewable chemicals in a manner that is comparable to traditional
arable-land-based feedstocks.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12771 
PMID: 24291791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):208-11. doi: 10.1038/nature12772. Epub 2013 Nov 24.

The effects of genetic variation on gene expression dynamics during development.

Francesconi M(1), Lehner B(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] EMBL-CRG Systems Biology Unit, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Dr.
Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Dr.
Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)1] EMBL-CRG Systems Biology Unit, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Dr.
Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [2] Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Dr.
Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain [3] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis 
Avançats (ICREA), Pg. Lluís Companys 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Dev Cell. 2013 Dec 23;27(6):601-3.

The development of a multicellular organism and physiological responses require
massive coordinated changes in gene expression across several cell and tissue
types. Polymorphic regions of the genome that influence gene expression levels
have been identified by expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) mapping in
many species, including loci that have cell-dependent, tissue-dependent and
age-dependent effects. However, there has been no comprehensive characterization 
of how polymorphisms influence the complex dynamic patterns of gene expression
that occur during development and in physiology. Here we describe an efficient
experimental design to infer gene expression dynamics from single expression
profiles in different genotypes, and apply it to characterize the effect of local
(cis) and distant (trans) genetic variation on gene expression at high temporal
resolution throughout a 12-hour period of the development of Caenorhabditis
elegans. Taking dynamic variation into account identifies >50% more cis-eQTLs,
including more than 900 that alter the dynamics of expression during this period.
Local sequence polymorphisms extensively affect the timing, rate, magnitude and
shape of expression changes. Indeed, many local sequence variants both increase
and decrease gene expression, depending on the time-point profiled. Expression
dynamics during this 12-hour period are also influenced extensively in trans by
distal loci. In particular, several trans loci influence genes with quite diverse
dynamic expression patterns, but they do so primarily during a common time
interval. Trans loci can therefore act as modifiers of expression during a
particular period of development. This study provides the first characterization,
to our knowledge, of the effect of local and distant genetic variation on the
dynamics of gene expression throughout an extensive time period. Moreover, the
approach developed here should facilitate the genetic dissection of other dynamic
processes, including potentially development, physiology and disease progression 
in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12772 
PMID: 24270809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):244-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12773. Epub 2013 Nov 24.

De novo protein crystal structure determination from X-ray free-electron laser
data.

Barends TR(1), Foucar L(1), Botha S(1), Doak RB(2), Shoeman RL(1), Nass K(1),
Koglin JE(3), Williams GJ(3), Boutet S(3), Messerschmidt M(3), Schlichting I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute for Medical Research, Jahnstrasse 29, D-69120 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(2)1] Max-Planck Institute for Medical Research, Jahnstrasse 29, D-69120
Heidelberg, Germany [2] Department of Physics, Arizona State University, PO Box
871504, Tempe, Arizona 85287-1504, USA.
(3)SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park,
California 94025, USA.

The determination of protein crystal structures is hampered by the need for
macroscopic crystals. X-ray free-electron lasers (FELs) provide extremely intense
pulses of femtosecond duration, which allow data collection from nanometre- to
micrometre-sized crystals in a 'diffraction-before-destruction' approach. So far,
all protein structure determinations carried out using FELs have been based on
previous knowledge of related, known structures. Here we show that X-ray FEL data
can be used for de novo protein structure determination, that is, without
previous knowledge about the structure. Using the emerging technique of serial
femtosecond crystallography, we performed single-wavelength anomalous scattering 
measurements on microcrystals of the well-established model system lysozyme, in
complex with a lanthanide compound. Using Monte-Carlo integration, we obtained
high-quality diffraction intensities from which experimental phases could be
determined, resulting in an experimental electron density map good enough for
automated building of the protein structure. This demonstrates the feasibility of
determining novel protein structures using FELs. We anticipate that serial
femtosecond crystallography will become an important tool for the structure
determination of proteins that are difficult to crystallize, such as membrane
proteins.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12773 
PMID: 24270807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):69-72. doi: 10.1038/nature12888.

Clouds in the atmosphere of the super-Earth exoplanet GJ 1214b.

Kreidberg L(1), Bean JL(1), Désert JM(2), Benneke B(3), Deming D(4), Stevenson
KB(1), Seager S(3), Berta-Thompson Z(5), Seifahrt A(1), Homeier D(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637, USA.
(2)1] CASA, Department of Astrophysical and Planetary Sciences, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [2] Department of Astronomy, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91101, USA.
(3)Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(4)Department of Astronomy, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA.
(5)1] Department of Astronomy, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02138, USA [2] MIT Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(6)Centre de Recherche Astrophysique de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):31-2.

Recent surveys have revealed that planets intermediate in size between Earth and 
Neptune ('super-Earths') are among the most common planets in the Galaxy.
Atmospheric studies are the next step towards developing a comprehensive
understanding of this new class of object. Much effort has been focused on using 
transmission spectroscopy to characterize the atmosphere of the super-Earth
archetype GJ 1214b (refs 7 - 17), but previous observations did not have
sufficient precision to distinguish between two interpretations for the
atmosphere. The planet's atmosphere could be dominated by relatively heavy
molecules, such as water (for example, a 100 per cent water vapour composition), 
or it could contain high-altitude clouds that obscure its lower layers. Here we
report a measurement of the transmission spectrum of GJ 1214b at near-infrared
wavelengths that definitively resolves this ambiguity. The data, obtained with
the Hubble Space Telescope, are sufficiently precise to detect absorption
features from a high mean-molecular-mass atmosphere. The observed spectrum,
however, is featureless. We rule out cloud-free atmospheric models with
compositions dominated by water, methane, carbon monoxide, nitrogen or carbon
dioxide at greater than 5σ confidence. The planet's atmosphere must contain
clouds to be consistent with the data.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12888 
PMID: 24380954 


938. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):66-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12887.

A featureless transmission spectrum for the Neptune-mass exoplanet GJ 436b.

Knutson HA(1), Benneke B(2), Deming D(3), Homeier D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
(2)1] Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA [2] Department of Earth, Atmospheric,
and Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(3)Department of Astronomy, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA.
(4)Centre de Recherche Astrophysique de Lyon, 69364 Lyon, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):31-2.

GJ 436b is a warm--approximately 800 kelvin--exoplanet that periodically eclipses
its low-mass (half the mass of the Sun) host star, and is one of the few
Neptune-mass planets that is amenable to detailed characterization. Previous
observations have indicated that its atmosphere has a ratio of methane to carbon 
monoxide that is 10(5) times smaller than predicted by models for
hydrogen-dominated atmospheres at these temperatures. A recent study proposed
that this unusual chemistry could be explained if the planet's atmosphere is
significantly enhanced in elements heavier than hydrogen and helium. Here we
report observations of GJ 436b's atmosphere obtained during transit. The data
indicate that the planet's transmission spectrum is featureless, ruling out
cloud-free, hydrogen-dominated atmosphere models with an extremely high
significance of 48σ. The measured spectrum is consistent with either a layer of
high cloud located at a pressure level of approximately one millibar or with a
relatively hydrogen-poor (three per cent hydrogen and helium mass fraction)
atmospheric composition.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12887 
PMID: 24380953 


939. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):37-42. doi: 10.1038/nature12829.

Spread in model climate sensitivity traced to atmospheric convective mixing.

Sherwood SC(1), Bony S(2), Dufresne JL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Climate Change Research Centre and ARC Centre of Excellence for Climate System
Science, University of New South Wales, Sydney 2052, Australia.
(2)Laboratoire de Météorologie Dynamique and Institut Pierre Simon Laplace
(LMD/IPSL), CNRS, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris 75252, France.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):34-5.

Equilibrium climate sensitivity refers to the ultimate change in global mean
temperature in response to a change in external forcing. Despite decades of
research attempting to narrow uncertainties, equilibrium climate sensitivity
estimates from climate models still span roughly 1.5 to 5 degrees Celsius for a
doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration, precluding accurate
projections of future climate. The spread arises largely from differences in the 
feedback from low clouds, for reasons not yet understood. Here we show that
differences in the simulated strength of convective mixing between the lower and 
middle tropical troposphere explain about half of the variance in climate
sensitivity estimated by 43 climate models. The apparent mechanism is that such
mixing dehydrates the low-cloud layer at a rate that increases as the climate
warms, and this rate of increase depends on the initial mixing strength, linking 
the mixing to cloud feedback. The mixing inferred from observations appears to be
sufficiently strong to imply a climate sensitivity of more than 3 degrees for a
doubling of carbon dioxide. This is significantly higher than the currently
accepted lower bound of 1.5 degrees, thereby constraining model projections
towards relatively severe future warming.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12829 
PMID: 24380952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):50-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12876. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

A molecular marker of artemisinin-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria.

Ariey F(1), Witkowski B(2), Amaratunga C(3), Beghain J(1), Langlois AC(4), Khim
N(2), Kim S(2), Duru V(2), Bouchier C(5), Ma L(5), Lim P(6), Leang R(7), Duong
S(7), Sreng S(7), Suon S(7), Chuor CM(7), Bout DM(8), Ménard S(9), Rogers WO(10),
Genton B(11), Fandeur T(12), Miotto O(13), Ringwald P(14), Le Bras J(15), Berry
A(9), Barale JC(1), Fairhurst RM(16), Benoit-Vical F(17), Mercereau-Puijalon
O(18), Ménard D(19).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institut Pasteur, Parasite Molecular Immunology Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex 15,
France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité de Recherche
Associée 2581, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France [3] Institut Pasteur, Genetics and
Genomics of Insect Vectors Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France (F.A.); Institut
Pasteur, Functional Genetics of Infectious Diseases Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex 15,
France (J.B.); Centre de Physiopathologie de Toulouse-Purpan, Institut National
de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale UMR1043, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique UMR5282, Université Toulouse III, 31024 Toulouse Cedex 3, France
Institut Pasteur, Unité de Biologie et Génétique du Paludisme, Team Malaria
Targets and Drug Development, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France (J.-C.B.).
(2)Institut Pasteur du Cambodge, Malaria Molecular Epidemiology Unit, Phnom Penh,
Cambodia.
(3)Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA.
(4)1] Institut Pasteur, Parasite Molecular Immunology Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex 15,
France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité de Recherche
Associée 2581, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France.
(5)Institut Pasteur, Plate-forme Génomique, Département Génomes et Génétique,
75724 Paris Cedex 15, France.
(6)1] Institut Pasteur du Cambodge, Malaria Molecular Epidemiology Unit, Phnom
Penh, Cambodia [2] Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, National Institute 
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA [3] National Center for Parasitology, Entomology and Malaria 
Control, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(7)National Center for Parasitology, Entomology and Malaria Control, Phnom Penh, 
Cambodia.
(8)SSA WHO, Drug Monitoring in Cambodia, National Center for Parasitology,
Entomology and Malaria Control, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(9)1] Service de Parasitologie et Mycologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Toulouse, 31059 Toulouse Cedex 9, France [2] Institut Pasteur, Genetics and
Genomics of Insect Vectors Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France (F.A.); Institut
Pasteur, Functional Genetics of Infectious Diseases Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex 15,
France (J.B.); Centre de Physiopathologie de Toulouse-Purpan, Institut National
de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale UMR1043, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique UMR5282, Université Toulouse III, 31024 Toulouse Cedex 3, France
Institut Pasteur, Unité de Biologie et Génétique du Paludisme, Team Malaria
Targets and Drug Development, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France (J.-C.B.).
(10)Naval Medical Research Unit #2 Detachment, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(11)Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute, 4051 Basel, Switzerland.
(12)1] Institut Pasteur, Parasite Molecular Immunology Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex
15, France [2] Institut Pasteur du Cambodge, Malaria Molecular Epidemiology Unit,
Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(13)1] MRC Centre for Genomics and Global Health, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX3 7BN, UK [2] Mahidol-Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit, Mahidol
University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand [3] Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton,
Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK.
(14)Global Malaria Program, World Health Organization, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.
(15)Centre National de Référence du Paludisme, CHU Bichat-Claude Bernard, APHP,
PRES Sorbonne Paris Cité, 75018 Paris, France.
(16)1] Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892,
USA [2].
(17)1] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Laboratoire de Chimie de
Coordination UPR8241, 31077 Toulouse Cedex 4, France [2] Université de Toulouse, 
UPS, Institut National Polytechnique de Toulouse, 31077 Toulouse Cedex 4, France 
[3].
(18)1] Institut Pasteur, Parasite Molecular Immunology Unit, 75724 Paris Cedex
15, France [2] Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité de Recherche
Associée 2581, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France [3].
(19)1] Institut Pasteur du Cambodge, Malaria Molecular Epidemiology Unit, Phnom
Penh, Cambodia [2].

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):30-1.

Plasmodium falciparum resistance to artemisinin derivatives in southeast Asia
threatens malaria control and elimination activities worldwide. To monitor the
spread of artemisinin resistance, a molecular marker is urgently needed. Here,
using whole-genome sequencing of an artemisinin-resistant parasite line from
Africa and clinical parasite isolates from Cambodia, we associate mutations in
the PF3D7_1343700 kelch propeller domain ('K13-propeller') with artemisinin
resistance in vitro and in vivo. Mutant K13-propeller alleles cluster in
Cambodian provinces where resistance is prevalent, and the increasing frequency
of a dominant mutant K13-propeller allele correlates with the recent spread of
resistance in western Cambodia. Strong correlations between the presence of a
mutant allele, in vitro parasite survival rates and in vivo parasite clearance
rates indicate that K13-propeller mutations are important determinants of
artemisinin resistance. K13-propeller polymorphism constitutes a useful molecular
marker for large-scale surveillance efforts to contain artemisinin resistance in 
the Greater Mekong Subregion and prevent its global spread.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12876 
PMCID: PMC5007947
PMID: 24352242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interests. Readers are welcome to comment on the online version of the paper.


941. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):43-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12886. Epub 2013 Dec 18.

The complete genome sequence of a Neanderthal from the Altai Mountains.

Prüfer K(1), Racimo F(2), Patterson N(3), Jay F(2), Sankararaman S(4), Sawyer
S(1), Heinze A(1), Renaud G(1), Sudmant PH(5), de Filippo C(1), Li H(3), Mallick 
S(4), Dannemann M(1), Fu Q(6), Kircher M(7), Kuhlwilm M(1), Lachmann M(1), Meyer 
M(1), Ongyerth M(1), Siebauer M(1), Theunert C(1), Tandon A(4), Moorjani P(8),
Pickrell J(8), Mullikin JC(9), Vohr SH(10), Green RE(10), Hellmann I(11), Johnson
PL(12), Blanche H(13), Cann H(13), Kitzman JO(5), Shendure J(5), Eichler EE(14), 
Lein ES(15), Bakken TE(15), Golovanova LV(16), Doronichev VB(16), Shunkov MV(17),
Derevianko AP(17), Viola B(18), Slatkin M(2), Reich D(19), Kelso J(1), Pääbo
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(2)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720-3140, USA.
(3)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA.
(4)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA [2]
Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(6)1] Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution
and Human Origins of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute of Vertebrate
Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100044, 
China.
(7)1] Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary 
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany [2] Department of Genome Sciences,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.
(8)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115,
USA.
(9)Genome Technology Branch and NIH Intramural Sequencing Center, National Human 
Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20892, USA.
(10)Department of Biomolecular Engineering, University of California, Santa Cruz,
California 95064, USA.
(11)1] Max F. Perutz Laboratories, Mathematics and Bioscience Group, Campus
Vienna Biocenter 5, Vienna 1030, Austria [2] Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität
München, Martinsried, 82152 Munich, Germany.
(12)Department of Biology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
(13)Fondation Jean Dausset, Centre d'Étude du Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH), 75010 
Paris, France.
(14)1] Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(15)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, Washington 98103, USA.
(16)ANO Laboratory of Prehistory 14 Linia 3-11, St. Petersburg 1990 34, Russia.
(17)Palaeolithic Department, Institute of Archaeology and Ethnography, Russian
Academy of Sciences, Siberian Branch, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(18)Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(19)1] Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA
[2] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA [3] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):32-4.

We present a high-quality genome sequence of a Neanderthal woman from Siberia. We
show that her parents were related at the level of half-siblings and that mating 
among close relatives was common among her recent ancestors. We also sequenced
the genome of a Neanderthal from the Caucasus to low coverage. An analysis of the
relationships and population history of available archaic genomes and 25
present-day human genomes shows that several gene flow events occurred among
Neanderthals, Denisovans and early modern humans, possibly including gene flow
into Denisovans from an unknown archaic group. Thus, interbreeding, albeit of low
magnitude, occurred among many hominin groups in the Late Pleistocene. In
addition, the high-quality Neanderthal genome allows us to establish a definitive
list of substitutions that became fixed in modern humans after their separation
from the ancestors of Neanderthals and Denisovans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12886 
PMCID: PMC4031459
PMID: 24352235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):78-81. doi: 10.1038/nature12784. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Increasing subtropical North Pacific Ocean nitrogen fixation since the Little Ice
Age.

Sherwood OA(1), Guilderson TP(2), Batista FC(3), Schiff JT(3), McCarthy MD(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Ocean Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz, California
95064, USA [2] Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(2)1] Ocean Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz, California
95064, USA [2] Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California
94550, USA [3] Institute for Marine Sciences, University of California, Santa
Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(3)Ocean Sciences Department, University of California, Santa Cruz, California
95064, USA.

The North Pacific subtropical gyre (NPSG) plays a major part in the export of
carbon and other nutrients to the deep ocean. Primary production in the NPSG has 
increased in recent decades despite a reduction in nutrient supply to surface
waters. It is thought that this apparent paradox can be explained by a shift in
plankton community structure from mostly eukaryotes to mostly nitrogen-fixing
prokaryotes. It remains uncertain, however, whether the plankton community domain
shift can be linked to cyclical climate variability or a long-term global warming
trend. Here we analyse records of bulk and amino-acid-specific (15)N/(14)N
isotopic ratios (δ(15)N) preserved in the skeletons of long-lived deep-sea
proteinaceous corals collected from the Hawaiian archipelago; these isotopic
records serve as a proxy for the source of nitrogen-supported export production
through time. We find that the recent increase in nitrogen fixation is the
continuation of a much larger, centennial-scale trend. After a millennium of
relatively minor fluctuation, δ(15)N decreases between 1850 and the present. The 
total shift in δ(15)N of -2 per mil over this period is comparable to the total
change in global mean sedimentary δ(15)N across the Pleistocene-Holocene
transition, but it is happening an order of magnitude faster. We use a
steady-state model and find that the isotopic mass balance between nitrate and
nitrogen fixation implies a 17 to 27 per cent increase in nitrogen fixation over 
this time period. A comparison with independent records suggests that the
increase in nitrogen fixation might be linked to Northern Hemisphere climate
change since the end of the Little Ice Age.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12784 
PMID: 24336216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):62-5. doi: 10.1038/nature12757. Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Strong neutrino cooling by cycles of electron capture and β- decay in neutron
star crusts.

Schatz H(1), Gupta S(2), Möller P(3), Beard M(4), Brown EF(1), Deibel AT(5),
Gasques LR(6), Hix WR(7), Keek L(1), Lau R(1), Steiner AW(8), Wiescher M(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory, Michigan State University,
640 South Shaw Lane, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA [2] Joint Institute for
Nuclear Astrophysics, 225 Nieuwland Science Hall, University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana 46556, USA [3] Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State 
University, 567 Wilson Road, East Lansing, Michigan 48824, USA.
(2)Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, Nangal Road, Rupnagar (Ropar), Punjab
140 001, India.
(3)1] Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics, 225 Nieuwland Science Hall,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA [2] Theoretical
Division, MS B214, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, 
USA.
(4)1] Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics, 225 Nieuwland Science Hall,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA [2] Department of
Physics, 225 Nieuwland Science Hall, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
Indiana 46556, USA.
(5)1] Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics, 225 Nieuwland Science Hall,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA [2] Department of
Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, 567 Wilson Road, East Lansing, 
Michigan 48824, USA.
(6)Departamento de Física Nuclear, Instituto de Física da Universidade de São
Paulo, Caixa Postal 66318, 05315-970 São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)1] Physics Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, PO Box 2008, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831-6354, USA [2] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of 
Tennessee, 401 Nielsen Physics Building, 1408 Circle Drive, Knoxville, Tennessee 
37996-1200, USA.
(8)1] Joint Institute for Nuclear Astrophysics, 225 Nieuwland Science Hall,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA [2] Institute for
Nuclear Theory, University of Washington, Physics and Astronomy Building, Box
351550, Seattle, Washington 98195-1550, USA.

The temperature in the crust of an accreting neutron star, which comprises its
outermost kilometre, is set by heating from nuclear reactions at large densities,
neutrino cooling and heat transport from the interior. The heated crust has been 
thought to affect observable phenomena at shallower depths, such as thermonuclear
bursts in the accreted envelope. Here we report that cycles of electron capture
and its inverse, β(-) decay, involving neutron-rich nuclei at a typical depth of 
about 150 metres, cool the outer neutron star crust by emitting neutrinos while
also thermally decoupling the surface layers from the deeper crust. This 'Urca'
mechanism has been studied in the context of white dwarfs and type Ia supernovae,
but hitherto was not considered in neutron stars, because previous models
computed the crust reactions using a zero-temperature approximation and assumed
that only a single nuclear species was present at any given depth. The thermal
decoupling means that X-ray bursts and other surface phenomena are largely
independent of the strength of deep crustal heating. The unexpectedly short
recurrence times, of the order of years, observed for very energetic
thermonuclear superbursts are therefore not an indicator of a hot crust, but may 
point instead to an unknown local heating mechanism near the neutron star
surface.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12757 
PMID: 24291788 


944. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):73-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12739. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

DNA-mediated nanoparticle crystallization into Wulff polyhedra.

Auyeung E(1), Li TI(1), Senesi AJ(2), Schmucker AL(2), Pals BC(3), de la Cruz
MO(4), Mirkin CA(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA [2] International Institute for Nanotechnology,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.
(2)1] International Institute for Nanotechnology, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA [2] Department of Chemistry, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.
(3)International Institute for Nanotechnology, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208, USA.
(4)1] Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA [2] International Institute for Nanotechnology,
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA [3] Department of
Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Mater. 2014 Feb;13(2):121-2.

Crystallization is a fundamental and ubiquitous process much studied over the
centuries. But although the crystallization of atoms is fairly well understood,
it remains challenging to predict reliably the outcome of molecular
crystallization processes that are complicated by various molecular interactions 
and solvent involvement. This difficulty also applies to nanoparticles:
high-quality three-dimensional crystals are mostly produced using drying and
sedimentation techniques that are often impossible to rationalize and control to 
give a desired crystal symmetry, lattice spacing and habit (crystal shape). In
principle, DNA-mediated assembly of nanoparticles offers an ideal opportunity for
studying nanoparticle crystallization: a well-defined set of rules have been
developed to target desired lattice symmetries and lattice constants, and the
occurrence of features such as grain boundaries and twinning in DNA superlattices
and traditional crystals comprised of molecular or atomic building blocks
suggests that similar principles govern their crystallization. But the presence
of charged biomolecules, interparticle spacings of tens of nanometres, and the
realization so far of only polycrystalline DNA-interconnected nanoparticle
superlattices, all suggest that DNA-guided crystallization may differ from
traditional crystal growth. Here we show that very slow cooling, over several
days, of solutions of complementary-DNA-modified nanoparticles through the
melting temperature of the system gives the thermodynamic product with a specific
and uniform crystal habit. We find that our nanoparticle assemblies have the
Wulff equilibrium crystal structure that is predicted from theoretical
considerations and molecular dynamics simulations, thus establishing that DNA
hybridization can direct nanoparticle assembly along a pathway that mimics atomic
crystallization.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12739 
PMID: 24284632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):117-20. doi: 10.1038/nature12730. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

N6-methyladenosine-dependent regulation of messenger RNA stability.

Wang X(1), Lu Z(1), Gomez A(1), Hon GC(2), Yue Y(1), Han D(1), Fu Y(1), Parisien 
M(3), Dai Q(1), Jia G(4), Ren B(2), Pan T(3), He C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The University
of Chicago, 929 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(2)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Department of Cellular and Molecular
Medicine, UCSD Moores Cancer Center and Institute of Genome Medicine, University 
of California, San Diego School of Medicine, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla,
California 92093-0653, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and Institute for Biophysical
Dynamics, The University of Chicago, 929 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois
60637, USA.
(4)1] Department of Chemistry and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The
University of Chicago, 929 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA [2]
Department of Chemical Biology and Synthetic and Functional Biomolecules Center, 
College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing
100871, China.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Jan;15(1):2.

N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is the most prevalent internal (non-cap)
modification present in the messenger RNA of all higher eukaryotes. Although
essential to cell viability and development, the exact role of m(6)A modification
remains to be determined. The recent discovery of two m(6)A demethylases in
mammalian cells highlighted the importance of m(6)A in basic biological functions
and disease. Here we show that m(6)A is selectively recognized by the human YTH
domain family 2 (YTHDF2) 'reader' protein to regulate mRNA degradation. We
identified over 3,000 cellular RNA targets of YTHDF2, most of which are mRNAs,
but which also include non-coding RNAs, with a conserved core motif of G(m(6)A)C.
We further establish the role of YTHDF2 in RNA metabolism, showing that binding
of YTHDF2 results in the localization of bound mRNA from the translatable pool to
mRNA decay sites, such as processing bodies. The carboxy-terminal domain of
YTHDF2 selectively binds to m(6)A-containing mRNA, whereas the amino-terminal
domain is responsible for the localization of the YTHDF2-mRNA complex to cellular
RNA decay sites. Our results indicate that the dynamic m(6)A modification is
recognized by selectively binding proteins to affect the translation status and
lifetime of mRNA.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12730 
PMCID: PMC3877715
PMID: 24284625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):56-61. doi: 10.1038/nature12775. Epub 2013 Nov 24.

Structural basis for Ca2+ selectivity of a voltage-gated calcium channel.

Tang L(1), Gamal El-Din TM(2), Payandeh J(3), Martinez GQ(4), Heard TM(4),
Scheuer T(4), Zheng N(5), Catterall WA(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2].
(3)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Department of Structural Biology, Genentech Inc., South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA.
(5)1] Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195, USA [2] Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA.

Voltage-gated calcium (CaV) channels catalyse rapid, highly selective influx of
Ca(2+) into cells despite a 70-fold higher extracellular concentration of Na(+). 
How CaV channels solve this fundamental biophysical problem remains unclear. Here
we report physiological and crystallographic analyses of a calcium selectivity
filter constructed in the homotetrameric bacterial NaV channel NaVAb. Our results
reveal interactions of hydrated Ca(2+) with two high-affinity Ca(2+)-binding
sites followed by a third lower-affinity site that would coordinate Ca(2+) as it 
moves inward. At the selectivity filter entry, Site 1 is formed by four carboxyl 
side chains, which have a critical role in determining Ca(2+) selectivity. Four
carboxyls plus four backbone carbonyls form Site 2, which is targeted by the
blocking cations Cd(2+) and Mn(2+), with single occupancy. The lower-affinity
Site 3 is formed by four backbone carbonyls alone, which mediate exit into the
central cavity. This pore architecture suggests a conduction pathway involving
transitions between two main states with one or two hydrated Ca(2+) ions bound in
the selectivity filter and supports a 'knock-off' mechanism of ion permeation
through a stepwise-binding process. The multi-ion selectivity filter of our CaVAb
model establishes a structural framework for understanding the mechanisms of ion 
selectivity and conductance by vertebrate CaV channels.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12775 
PMCID: PMC3877713
PMID: 24270805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):103-7. doi: 10.1038/nature12729. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Antibacterial membrane attack by a pore-forming intestinal C-type lectin.

Mukherjee S(1), Zheng H(2), Derebe MG(1), Callenberg KM(3), Partch CL(4), Rollins
D(1), Propheter DC(1), Rizo J(5), Grabe M(6), Jiang QX(7), Hooper LV(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, and Joint
Carnegie Mellon University-University of Pittsburgh PhD Program in Computational 
Biology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Santa
Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Department of Pharmacology, The University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.
(6)1] Department of Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, and Joint
Carnegie Mellon University-University of Pittsburgh PhD Program in Computational 
Biology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA [2] Cardiovascular Research
Institute, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California
94143, USA.
(7)1] Department of Cell Biology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2].
(8)1] Department of Immunology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [2] The Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA [3].

Human body-surface epithelia coexist in close association with complex bacterial 
communities and are protected by a variety of antibacterial proteins. C-type
lectins of the RegIII family are bactericidal proteins that limit direct contact 
between bacteria and the intestinal epithelium and thus promote tolerance to the 
intestinal microbiota. RegIII lectins recognize their bacterial targets by
binding peptidoglycan carbohydrate, but the mechanism by which they kill bacteria
is unknown. Here we elucidate the mechanistic basis for RegIII bactericidal
activity. We show that human RegIIIα (also known as HIP/PAP) binds membrane
phospholipids and kills bacteria by forming a hexameric membrane-permeabilizing
oligomeric pore. We derive a three-dimensional model of the RegIIIα pore by
docking the RegIIIα crystal structure into a cryo-electron microscopic map of the
pore complex, and show that the model accords with experimentally determined
properties of the pore. Lipopolysaccharide inhibits RegIIIα pore-forming
activity, explaining why RegIIIα is bactericidal for Gram-positive but not
Gram-negative bacteria. Our findings identify C-type lectins as mediators of
membrane attack in the mucosal immune system, and provide detailed insight into
an antibacterial mechanism that promotes mutualism with the resident microbiota.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12729 
PMCID: PMC4160023
PMID: 24256734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):87-91. doi: 10.1038/nature12736. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Upper Palaeolithic Siberian genome reveals dual ancestry of Native Americans.

Raghavan M(1), Skoglund P(2), Graf KE(3), Metspalu M(4), Albrechtsen A(5), Moltke
I(6), Rasmussen S(7), Stafford TW Jr(8), Orlando L(9), Metspalu E(10), Karmin
M(11), Tambets K(12), Rootsi S(12), Mägi R(13), Campos PF(9), Balanovska E(14),
Balanovsky O(15), Khusnutdinova E(16), Litvinov S(17), Osipova LP(18), Fedorova
SA(19), Voevoda MI(20), DeGiorgio M(21), Sicheritz-Ponten T(22), Brunak S(22),
Demeshchenko S(23), Kivisild T(24), Villems R(25), Nielsen R(21), Jakobsson
M(26), Willerslev E(9).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, 1350 Copenhagen, Denmark [2].
(2)1] Department of Evolutionary Biology, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D,
Uppsala 752 36, Sweden [2].
(3)Center for the Study of the First Americans, Texas A&M University, TAMU-4352, 
College Station, Texas 77845-4352, USA.
(4)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu 51010, Estonia [2]
Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA [3] Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu
51010, Estonia.
(5)The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
Ole Maaløes Vej 5, Copenhagen 2200, Denmark.
(6)1] The Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen,
Ole Maaløes Vej 5, Copenhagen 2200, Denmark [2] Department of Human Genetics, The
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
(7)Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, Technical University of Denmark,
Kongens Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(8)1] Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, 1350 Copenhagen, Denmark [2] AMS 14C Dating
Centre, Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Aarhus, Ny Munkegade
120, Aarhus DK-8000, Denmark.
(9)Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of
Copenhagen, Øster Voldgade 5-7, 1350 Copenhagen, Denmark.
(10)Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010,
Estonia.
(11)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu 51010, Estonia [2]
Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010, Estonia.
(12)Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu 51010, Estonia.
(13)Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010, Estonia.
(14)Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences,
Moskvorechie Street 1, Moscow 115479, Russia.
(15)1] Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences,
Moskvorechie Street 1, Moscow 115479, Russia [2] Vavilov Institute of General
Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Gubkina Street 3, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(16)1] Institute of Biochemistry and Genetics, Ufa Scientific Centre, Russian
Academy of Sciences, Ufa, Bashkorostan 450054, Russia [2] Biology Department,
Bashkir State University, Ufa, Bashkorostan 450074, Russia.
(17)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu 51010, Estonia [2]
Institute of Biochemistry and Genetics, Ufa Scientific Centre, Russian Academy of
Sciences, Ufa, Bashkorostan 450054, Russia.
(18)The Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Center for Brain Neurobiology and
Neurogenetics, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Lavrentyeva
Avenue, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia.
(19)Department of Molecular Genetics, Yakut Research Center of Complex Medical
Problems, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences and North-Eastern Federal
University, Yakutsk, Sakha (Yakutia) 677010, Russia.
(20)1] The Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Center for Brain Neurobiology and 
Neurogenetics, Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Lavrentyeva
Avenue, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia [2] Institute of Internal Medicine, Siberian
Branch of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, Borisa Bogatkova 175/1,
Novosibirsk 630089, Russia.
(21)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA.
(22)1] Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, Technical University of Denmark, 
Kongens Lyngby 2800, Denmark [2] Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for
Biosustainability, Technical University of Denmark, Kongens Lyngby 2800, Denmark.
(23)The State Hermitage Museum, 2, Dvortsovaya Ploshchad, St. Petersberg 190000, 
Russia.
(24)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu 51010, Estonia [2]
Department of Biological Anthropology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2
1QH, UK.
(25)1] Estonian Biocentre, Evolutionary Biology group, Tartu 51010, Estonia [2]
Department of Evolutionary Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu 51010, Estonia [3]
Estonian Academy of Sciences, Tallinn 10130, Estonia.
(26)1] Department of Evolutionary Biology, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D,
Uppsala 752 36, Sweden [2] Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University,
Norbyvägen 18D, 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.

The origins of the First Americans remain contentious. Although Native Americans 
seem to be genetically most closely related to east Asians, there is no consensus
with regard to which specific Old World populations they are closest to. Here we 
sequence the draft genome of an approximately 24,000-year-old individual (MA-1), 
from Mal'ta in south-central Siberia, to an average depth of 1×. To our knowledge
this is the oldest anatomically modern human genome reported to date. The MA-1
mitochondrial genome belongs to haplogroup U, which has also been found at high
frequency among Upper Palaeolithic and Mesolithic European hunter-gatherers, and 
the Y chromosome of MA-1 is basal to modern-day western Eurasians and near the
root of most Native American lineages. Similarly, we find autosomal evidence that
MA-1 is basal to modern-day western Eurasians and genetically closely related to 
modern-day Native Americans, with no close affinity to east Asians. This suggests
that populations related to contemporary western Eurasians had a more
north-easterly distribution 24,000 years ago than commonly thought. Furthermore, 
we estimate that 14 to 38% of Native American ancestry may originate through gene
flow from this ancient population. This is likely to have occurred after the
divergence of Native American ancestors from east Asian ancestors, but before the
diversification of Native American populations in the New World. Gene flow from
the MA-1 lineage into Native American ancestors could explain why several crania 
from the First Americans have been reported as bearing morphological
characteristics that do not resemble those of east Asians. Sequencing of another 
south-central Siberian, Afontova Gora-2 dating to approximately 17,000 years ago,
revealed similar autosomal genetic signatures as MA-1, suggesting that the region
was continuously occupied by humans throughout the Last Glacial Maximum. Our
findings reveal that western Eurasian genetic signatures in modern-day Native
Americans derive not only from post-Columbian admixture, as commonly thought, but
also from a mixed ancestry of the First Americans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12736 
PMCID: PMC4105016
PMID: 24256729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):97-102. doi: 10.1038/nature12681. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Divergent angiocrine signals from vascular niche balance liver regeneration and
fibrosis.

Ding BS(1), Cao Z(1), Lis R(2), Nolan DJ(3), Guo P(2), Simons M(4), Penfold
ME(5), Shido K(2), Rabbany SY(6), Rafii S(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Ansary Stem Cell Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of 
Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA
[2].
(2)Ansary Stem Cell Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of
Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(3)1] Ansary Stem Cell Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of 
Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA
[2] Angiocrine Bioscience, New York, New York 10065, USA.
(4)Yale Cardiovascular Research Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA.
(5)ChemoCentryx, Inc., Mountain View, California 94043, USA.
(6)1] Ansary Stem Cell Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of 
Genetic Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York 10065, USA
[2] Bioengineering Program, Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York 11549, USA.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2014 Aug;60(2):754-6.

Chemical or traumatic damage to the liver is frequently associated with aberrant 
healing (fibrosis) that overrides liver regeneration. The mechanism by which
hepatic niche cells differentially modulate regeneration and fibrosis during
liver repair remains to be defined. Hepatic vascular niche predominantly
represented by liver sinusoidal endothelial cells deploys paracrine trophogens,
known as angiocrine factors, to stimulate regeneration. Nevertheless, it is not
known how pro-regenerative angiocrine signals from liver sinusoidal endothelial
cells is subverted to promote fibrosis. Here, by combining an inducible
endothelial-cell-specific mouse gene deletion strategy and complementary models
of acute and chronic liver injury, we show that divergent angiocrine signals from
liver sinusoidal endothelial cells stimulate regeneration after immediate injury 
and provoke fibrosis after chronic insult. The pro-fibrotic transition of
vascular niche results from differential expression of stromal-derived factor-1
receptors, CXCR7 and CXCR4 (refs 18, 19, 20, 21), in liver sinusoidal endothelial
cells. After acute injury, CXCR7 upregulation in liver sinusoidal endothelial
cells acts with CXCR4 to induce transcription factor Id1, deploying
pro-regenerative angiocrine factors and triggering regeneration. Inducible
deletion of Cxcr7 in sinusoidal endothelial cells (Cxcr7(iΔEC/iΔEC)) from the
adult mouse liver impaired liver regeneration by diminishing Id1-mediated
production of angiocrine factors. By contrast, after chronic injury inflicted by 
iterative hepatotoxin (carbon tetrachloride) injection and bile duct ligation,
constitutive FGFR1 signalling in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells
counterbalanced CXCR7-dependent pro-regenerative response and augmented CXCR4
expression. This predominance of CXCR4 over CXCR7 expression shifted angiocrine
response of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells, stimulating proliferation of
desmin(+) hepatic stellate-like cells and enforcing a pro-fibrotic vascular
niche. Endothelial-cell-specific ablation of either Fgfr1 (Fgfr1(iΔEC/iΔEC)) or
Cxcr4 (Cxcr4(iΔEC/iΔEC)) in mice restored the pro-regenerative pathway and
prevented FGFR1-mediated maladaptive subversion of angiocrine factors. Similarly,
selective CXCR7 activation in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells abrogated
fibrogenesis. Thus, we demonstrate that in response to liver injury, differential
recruitment of pro-regenerative CXCR7-Id1 versus pro-fibrotic FGFR1-CXCR4
angiocrine pathways in vascular niche balances regeneration and fibrosis. These
results provide a therapeutic roadmap to achieve hepatic regeneration without
provoking fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12681 
PMCID: PMC4142699
PMID: 24256728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):92-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12755. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Prefrontal parvalbumin interneurons shape neuronal activity to drive fear
expression.

Courtin J(1), Chaudun F(1), Rozeske RR(1), Karalis N(1), Gonzalez-Campo C(1),
Wurtz H(1), Abdi A(2), Baufreton J(2), Bienvenu TC(1), Herry C(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] INSERM, Neurocentre Magendie, U862, 146 Rue Léo-Saignat, Bordeaux 33077,
France [2] University of Bordeaux, Neurocentre Magendie, U862, 146 Rue
Léo-Saignat, Bordeaux 33077, France.
(2)1] University of Bordeaux, Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293,
Bordeaux F-33000, France [2] CNRS, Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, UMR 
5293, Bordeaux F-33000, France.

Synchronization of spiking activity in neuronal networks is a fundamental process
that enables the precise transmission of information to drive behavioural
responses. In cortical areas, synchronization of principal-neuron spiking
activity is an effective mechanism for information coding that is regulated by
GABA (γ-aminobutyric acid)-ergic interneurons through the generation of neuronal 
oscillations. Although neuronal synchrony has been demonstrated to be crucial for
sensory, motor and cognitive processing, it has not been investigated at the
level of defined circuits involved in the control of emotional behaviour.
Converging evidence indicates that fear behaviour is regulated by the dorsomedial
prefrontal cortex (dmPFC). This control over fear behaviour relies on the
activation of specific prefrontal projections to the basolateral complex of the
amygdala (BLA), a structure that encodes associative fear memories. However, it
remains to be established how the precise temporal control of fear behaviour is
achieved at the level of prefrontal circuits. Here we use single-unit recordings 
and optogenetic manipulations in behaving mice to show that fear expression is
causally related to the phasic inhibition of prefrontal parvalbumin interneurons 
(PVINs). Inhibition of PVIN activity disinhibits prefrontal projection neurons
and synchronizes their firing by resetting local theta oscillations, leading to
fear expression. Our results identify two complementary neuronal mechanisms
mediated by PVINs that precisely coordinate and enhance the neuronal activity of 
prefrontal projection neurons to drive fear expression.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12755 
PMID: 24256726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):112-116. doi: 10.1038/nature12731. Epub 2013 Nov 17.

Coupled GTPase and remodelling ATPase activities form a checkpoint for ribosome
export.

Matsuo Y(1), Granneman S(#)(2)(3), Thoms M(#)(1), Manikas RG(1), Tollervey D(2), 
Hurt E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemie-Zentrum der Universität Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 328,
Heidelberg D-69120, Germany.
(2)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell Biology, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh
UK.
(3)Centre for Synthetic and Systems Biology (SynthSys), University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Feb 3;24(3):R127-9.

Eukaryotic ribosomes are assembled by a complex pathway that extends from the
nucleolus to the cytoplasm and is powered by many energy-consuming enzymes.
Nuclear export is a key, irreversible step in pre-ribosome maturation, but
mechanisms underlying the timely acquisition of export competence remain poorly
understood. Here we show that a conserved Saccharomyces cerevisiae GTPase Nug2
(also known as Nog2, and as NGP-1, GNL2 or nucleostemin 2 in human) has a key
role in the timing of export competence. Nug2 binds the inter-subunit face of
maturing, nucleoplasmic pre-60S particles, and the location clashes with the
position of Nmd3, a key pre-60S export adaptor. Nug2 and Nmd3 are not present on 
the same pre-60S particles, with Nug2 binding before Nmd3. Depletion of Nug2
causes premature Nmd3 binding to the pre-60S particles, whereas mutations in the 
G-domain of Nug2 block Nmd3 recruitment, resulting in severe 60S export defects. 
Two pre-60S remodelling factors, the Rea1 ATPase and its co-substrate Rsa4, are
present on Nug2-associated particles, and both show synthetic lethal interactions
with nug2 mutants. Release of Nug2 from pre-60S particles requires both its
K(+)-dependent GTPase activity and the remodelling ATPase activity of Rea1. We
conclude that Nug2 is a regulatory GTPase that monitors pre-60S maturation, with 
release from its placeholder site linked to recruitment of the nuclear export
machinery.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12731 
PMCID: PMC3880858
PMID: 24240281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):108-11. doi: 10.1038/nature12732. Epub 2013 Nov 17.

Structural basis for recognition of synaptic vesicle protein 2C by botulinum
neurotoxin A.

Benoit RM(1), Frey D(2), Hilbert M(2), Kevenaar JT(3), Wieser MM(1), Stirnimann
CU(4), McMillan D(5), Ceska T(5), Lebon F(6), Jaussi R(1), Steinmetz MO(1),
Schertler GF(7), Hoogenraad CC(8), Capitani G(1), Kammerer RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomolecular Research, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232 Villigen 
PSI, Switzerland.
(2)1] Laboratory of Biomolecular Research, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland [2].
(3)1] Cell Biology, Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, 3584 CH Utrecht, The 
Netherlands [2].
(4)Swiss Light Source, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland.
(5)UCB Celltech, UCB Pharma, UCB NewMedicines, Slough SL1 4EN, UK.
(6)UCB Pharma, UCB NewMedicines, B-1420 Braine-L'Alleud, Belgium.
(7)1] Laboratory of Biomolecular Research, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland [2] Department of Biology, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(8)Cell Biology, Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, 3584 CH Utrecht, The
Netherlands.

Botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) belongs to the most dangerous class of
bioweapons. Despite this, BoNT/A is used to treat a wide range of common medical 
conditions such as migraines and a variety of ocular motility and movement
disorders. BoNT/A is probably best known for its use as an antiwrinkle agent in
cosmetic applications (including Botox and Dysport). BoNT/A application causes
long-lasting flaccid paralysis of muscles through inhibiting the release of the
neurotransmitter acetylcholine by cleaving synaptosomal-associated protein 25
(SNAP-25) within presynaptic nerve terminals. Two types of BoNT/A receptor have
been identified, both of which are required for BoNT/A toxicity and are therefore
likely to cooperate with each other: gangliosides and members of the synaptic
vesicle glycoprotein 2 (SV2) family, which are putative transporter proteins that
are predicted to have 12 transmembrane domains, associate with the
receptor-binding domain of the toxin. Recently, fibroblast growth factor receptor
3 (FGFR3) has also been reported to be a potential BoNT/A receptor. In SV2
proteins, the BoNT/A-binding site has been mapped to the luminal domain, but the 
molecular details of the interaction between BoNT/A and SV2 are unknown. Here we 
determined the high-resolution crystal structure of the BoNT/A receptor-binding
domain (BoNT/A-RBD) in complex with the SV2C luminal domain (SV2C-LD). SV2C-LD
consists of a right-handed, quadrilateral β-helix that associates with BoNT/A-RBD
mainly through backbone-to-backbone interactions at open β-strand edges, in a
manner that resembles the inter-strand interactions in amyloid structures.
Competition experiments identified a peptide that inhibits the formation of the
complex. Our findings provide a strong platform for the development of novel
antitoxin agents and for the rational design of BoNT/A variants with improved
therapeutic properties.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12732 
PMID: 24240280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Nature. 2014 Jan 2;505(7481):82-6. doi: 10.1038/nature12733. Epub 2013 Nov 17.

Low investment in sexual reproduction threatens plants adapted to phosphorus
limitation.

Fujita Y(1), Venterink HO(2), van Bodegom PM(3), Douma JC(4), Heil GW(5), Hölzel 
N(6), Jabłońska E(7), Kotowski W(7), Okruszko T(8), Pawlikowski P(7), de Ruiter
PC(9), Wassen MJ(10).

Author information: 
(1)KWR Watercycle Research Institute, PO Box 1072, 3430 BB Nieuwegein, The
Netherlands.
(2)Plant Biology and Nature Management, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 
1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Department of Ecological Science, VU University Amsterdam, de Boelelaan 1085, 
1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Centre for Crop Systems Analysis, Wageningen University, Droevendaalsesteeg 1,
6708PB Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Princetonplein 5, 3584 CC Utrecht, The
Netherlands.
(6)Institute of Landscape Ecology, Faculty of Geosciences, University of Münster,
Robert-Koch-Strasse 28, 48149 Münster, Germany.
(7)Department of Plant Ecology and Environmental Conservation, Institute of
Botany, University of Warsaw, Al. Ujazdowskie 4, Warsaw, Poland.
(8)Warsaw University of Life Sciences, Faculty of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, 02-722 Warsaw, Nowoursynowska 166, Poland.
(9)Biometris, Wageningen University, PO Box 100, 6700 AC Wageningen, The
Netherlands.
(10)Environmental Sciences, Copernicus Institute of Sustainable Development,
Faculty of Geosciences, Utrecht University, PO Box 80115, 3508 TC Utrecht, The
Netherlands.

Plant species diversity in Eurasian wetlands and grasslands depends not only on
productivity but also on the relative availability of nutrients, particularly of 
nitrogen and phosphorus. Here we show that the impacts of nitrogen:phosphorus
stoichiometry on plant species richness can be explained by selected plant
life-history traits, notably by plant investments in growth versus reproduction. 
In 599 Eurasian sites with herbaceous vegetation we examined the relationship
between the local nutrient conditions and community-mean life-history traits. We 
found that compared with plants in nitrogen-limited communities, plants in
phosphorus-limited communities invest little in sexual reproduction (for example,
less investment in seed, shorter flowering period, longer lifespan) and have
conservative leaf economy traits (that is, a low specific leaf area and a high
leaf dry-matter content). Endangered species were more frequent in
phosphorus-limited ecosystems and they too invested little in sexual
reproduction. The results provide new insight into how plant adaptations to
nutrient conditions can drive the distribution of plant species in natural
ecosystems and can account for the vulnerability of endangered species.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12733 
PMID: 24240278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

